III .
" On the Structure of the so-called Apolar , Unipolar , and Bipolar Nerve-cells of the Frog .
" By LIONEL BEALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , F.R.C.P. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in King 's College , London , and Physician to King 's College Hospital .
Received May 7 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The author adverts to the opinion generally received with regard to the existence of apolar , unipolar , bipolar , and multipolar nervecells , and observes that if cells having such very different relations to the nerve-fibres they are supposed to influence , as apolar , unipolar , and multipolar cells , 4o actually exist , as many different kinds of action must be admitted .
For it is hardly likely that a nerve-cell unconnected with any fibre can affect the fibres at a distance from it in the same way as a cell acts upon fibres which are in structural continuity with it .
Neither is it probable that a cell with but one fibre proceeding from it can constitute an organ which acts upon the same principle as the cell from which two or more fibres proceed .
If no fibre , or but one fibre proceeds from certain cells , the formation of complete:nervous circuits , at least in these instances , is impossible ; and if it be admitted that circuits do not exist in every case , a strong argument is advanced against the existence of such complete circuits as a necessary or fundamental condition of a complete nervous apparatus .
But if it can be shown , on the other hand , as the author maintains is the case , that all the supposed apolar and unipolar cells have at least two fibres proceeding from them , the fact must be accepted in favour of the view that such complete circuits may exist , while the fact that the fibres connected with many cells have been seen to proceed in opposite directions some distance after leaving the cell , is a very strong argument in favour of such general inference , and at the same time an explanation of many arrangements which are observed constantly in connexion with nerve-fibres in various tissues .
Many observers have described apolar and unipolar cells in ganglia in different parts of the frog .
The author , on the other hand , has failed to discover any apolar or unipolar cells in this or in any other animal , and considers that the apparent absence of fibres , and the presence of one fibre only in connexion with a cell , result from the defective modes of preparation generally employed .
He maintains that every nerve-cell , central or peripheral , has at least two fibres proceeding from it* .
In many cases he has demonstrated that these fibres pursue opposite directions , and he considers that such an arrangement is general , and therefore necessary .
The author considers himself justified in drawing the following conclusions from observations he has made during the last three years .
1st .
That in all cases nerve-fibres are in bodily connexion with the cell or cells which influence them , and this from the earliest period of their formation .
2nd .
That there are no apolar cells , and no unipolar cells , in any part of any nervous system .
3rd .
That every nerve-cell , central or peripheral , has at least two fibres in connexion with it .
Though the present inquiry is limited to the structure of the particular cells connected with the ganglia in different parts of the frog , the author has studied the 'arrangement of nerve-cells and nervefirbes in nervous centres , as well as at their peripheral distribution , in many different animals .
1 .
General description of the ganglion-cells connected with the sympathetic and other nerves of the frog .
The general form of these cells is oval or spherical ; but the most perfectly formed ganglion-cell is more or less pearor balloon-shaped in its general outline , and by its narrow extremity is continuous with nerve-fibres which may be followed into trunks .
The figure represents a well-formed ganglion-cell from a ganglion close to one of the large lumbar nerves of the little green tree-frog ( Hyla arborea ) .
The substance of the cell consists of a more or less granular material , which by the slow action of acetic acid becomes decomposed , oil-globules being gradually set free .
Near the fundus or rounded end is seen the very large circular nucleus with its nucleolus .
In some of these cells , at about the central part or a little higher , are a number of oval nuclei , some of which are in connexion with fibres .
The matter of which the mass of the cell consists gradually diminishes in diameter , and contracts so as to form a fibre , in which a nucleus is often seen .
At the circumference of the cell , about its middle , the material seems gradually to assume the form of fibres , which contain numerous nuclei , and these pass around So-called " unipolar " nerve-cell , with , 1st , a straight , and 2nd , a spiral fibre emanating from it .
The fibres continuous with these are seen to pursue opposite directions .
Magnified 700 linear .
L LL ... .
l 1000th of an inch X 700 .
1000 ' the first fibre in a spiral manner .
Thus in the fully formed cell a fibre comes from the centre of the cell ( straightfibre ) , and one or more fibres ( spiral fibres ) proceed from its surface .
These points are represented in the figure* .
2 .
On the formation of ganglion-cells in the fully formed frog .
This subject is arranged under the three following heads , but as it would not be intelligible without figures , it will not be given in abstract .
The development of these cells and many other structures may be studied in the fully formed animal as well as in the embryo .
a. Ganglion-cells developed from a nucleated granular mass like that which forms the early condition of all tissues .
b. Ganglion-cells formed by the division or splitting up of a mass like a single ganglion-cell .
c. Ganglion-cells formed by changes occurring in what appears to be the nucleus of a nerve-fibre .
3 .
Further changes in the ganglion-cell after its formation .
Under this head the movement of the cell from the point where its growth commenced is described .
It is shown that the two fibres , which at first seem to come from opposite extremities of the cell , lie parallel to each other .
They increase in length , and subsequently one is seen to be twisted round the other , as shown in the figure .
Sometimes the fibres below the point where the spiral arrangement exists run parallel for a long distance , but at length pursue opposite directions .
The author considers that the formation of the ganglioncell commenced at the point where the fibres diverge , and that subsequently the cell moved away , the parallel fibres , which at length become straight and spiral , being gradually formed or drawn out as it were from the cell .
4 .
Of the spiralfibre of the fully formed ganglion-cell .
The spiral fibre or fibres can be shown to be continuous with the material of which the body of the cell is composed , as well as the straight fibre , but the former are connected with its surface , while the latter proceeds from the deeper and more central part of its substance .
There are many nuclei in connexion with the spiral fibre , and several nuclei of the same character imbedded in the substance of the mass of which the cell is composed .
These latter nuclei seem to be connected with an earlier condition of the matter which becomes , when more condensed , spiral fibre .
A great difference is observed with regard to the extent of the spiral fibre in cells of different ages .
In the youngest cells the fibres near the cell are both parallel to each other , but as the cell grows one is seen to be coiled round the other ; and the number of coils increases as the cell advances in age , while the matter of which the fundus of the cell is composed gradually becomes less-apparently in consequence of undergoing conversion into fibres .
Nuclei are found in the course of the straight fibre , as well as in connexion with the spiral fibre .
Nuclei have been demonstrated in connexion with the dark-bordered fibres near their origin and near their distribution in all tissues .
Next follows a discussion " on the essential nature of the changes occurring during the formation of all nerve-cells , and on the formation of spiral fibres , " but this is not adapted for an abstract .
The term " nucleus " is only employed in a general sense .
The author believes that the " nucleus , " nucleolus , " and centres within the latter ( " nucleoluli " ) merely represent centres of different ages .
He considers that the matter of the nucleus becomes gradually transformed into the formed matter around it , and generally , that these bodies are merely centres which arise in pre-existing centres .
He maintains that from the outer formed matter connected with the fibres new nerve-cells could not be produced , while he holds that from the nuclei , nucleoli , and contained centres , entirely new and complete cells could be evolved .
So he considers that the difference in the properties and powers of the formed matter on the one hand , and the nuclei and nucleoli on the other , depends upon these two kinds of matter having arrived at different stages of existence .
That which is formed cannot form new formed matter , nor appropriate nutrient material ; but the living germinal matter of the nucleus can be resolved into formed matter , and it can appropriate inanimate pabulum , and confer upon it the same wonderful ( vital ) powers which it possesses itself , and which were communicated to it from preexisting germinal matter .
7 .
Of the fibres in the nerve-trunks continuous with the straight and spiral fibres of the ganglion-cells .
The conclusions upon this important question are as follows:1st .
That in some instances very fine fibres , not more than the J-6- , th of an English inch in diameter , are alone continuous with both straight and spiral fibres of the ganglion-cell .
2nd .
That a dark-bordered fibre may be traced to the ganglioncell as the straightfibre , while the spiral fibres are continued on as very fine fibres .
3rd .
That the spiral fibres may be continued onwards as a darkbordered fibre which may even be wider , at least for some distance , than the fibre continued from the straight fibre .
4th .
That both straight and spiral fibres may be continuous with dark-bordered fibres .
It is therefore quite certain that the spiral fibre is not connective tissue , although the author considers it probable that many German observers may adopt this view until they have an opportunity of seeing the fibres themselves .
8 .
Of the ganglion-cells of the heart .
The author 's conclusions are quite opposed to those of Kolliker , who states that all the cells are unipolar , and that the fibre always passes in a peripheral direction , also that the transcurrent fibres of the vagus have no connexion with these cells .
The author , on the contrary , affirms that the cells have at least two fibres comingfrom them , that some of the fibres pass towards the heart , and others towards the brain .
He regards it as very probable that many at least of these ganglion-cells are connected with fibres of the vagus .
Kolliker has also stated ( 1860 ) that many apolar cells could be seen in the heart , ganglia , and in the bladder .
The author has been able to demonstrate fibres in connexion with so many cells which appeared devoid of fibres , that he considers himself justified in denying the existence of apolar and unipolar cells altogether .
Next follow some observations on " the ganglion-cells and nerves of arteries ; " " on the connexion of the ganglion-cells with each other ; " and the paper concludes with a description of the so-called " capsule " of the ganglion-cell , and a discussion on the nature and formation of the connective tissue and its corpuscles in the immediate neighbourhood of nerve-fibres .
The paper is illustrated with forty-seven drawings of the specimens , magnified from 700 to 1700 linear ; and the author states that many of the specimens will probably retain the appearances he has copied for several months .
All the preparations have been made in the same manner .
An outline of the process has been already given in the author 's previous communications , but the author is aware that it may be some time before the correctness of his conclusions is generally admitted , in consequence of the difficulty of preparing demonstrative specimens .

