]\gt ; 1878 .
] Solion of Sinlultaneous Linear } screen : the light by which the eye then sees the screen is , of course , undulatory .
The phenomena in these exhausted tubes reveal to physical science a new world\mdash ; a world where matter in a fourth state , where the corpuscular theory of light holds good , and where light does not always move in a straight line ; but where we can never enter , and in which must be content to observe and experiment from the outside .
II .
On a Machine for the of Simultaneous Linear qnations.\ldquo ; By Sir HONISON , LL. D. , F.R.S. , President of the Royal Society , Edinburgh .
Received August 30 , 1878 .
Let , . .
be bodies each supported on a fixed axis ( in practice is to be supported on like the beam of a bal ance ) .
Let , .
pulleys each pivoted on ; , . .
, , , , . .
, , ; , . . .
cords passing over the pulleys ; , . . .
, the course of ; . . .
, , , ; . .
, fixed points ; , . . .
lengths of cords between , and and , along the COUl'ses stated above , when . . .
are in particular positions will be called their zero positions ; , . . .
, their lengths between the same fixed points , when , . . .
are turned angles , . . .
from their zero positions ; ( ll ) , ( 12 ) , , . .
, ( 21 ) , ( 22 ) , ( 23 ) , . .
, ( 31 ) , ( 32 ) , ( 33 ) , . .
, quantities such that . . . . . . . . .
( I ) We suppose . . .
to be each so small ) , ( 12 ) , 112 Sir .
Thomson on a for the [ Dec. ( 21 ) , \amp ; c. , do not vary sensibly from the values which they where , . . .
, are each small .
In practice it will to so place the axes of . . .
, and the mountingS of the pulleys on , and the fixed points , \amp ; c. , that when are infinitely small , the straight parts of each cord and the lines of infinitesimal motion of the centres of the pulleys round which it passcs are all parallel .
Then , , . . .
will be simply equal to the distances of the centres of the pulleys , . . .
, from the axis of ; , . . .
distances of ) , . . .
from the axis of , and so on .
In practice the mounting of the pulleys are to be adjustable by proper geometrical slides , to allo any prescribed positive or negative value to be glven to each of the quantities ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 21 ) , \amp ; c. Suppose this to be done , and each of the bodies . . .
to be placed in its zero position and hcld there .
Attach now the cords firmly to the fixed points , . . .
respectively ; and passing them round their proper pulleys , bring them to the other fixed points , and pass them infinitely small smooth rino fixed at bhese ) oints .
Now hold the bodies , each and ( in practice by WeiCrD hts on their ends , outside . . .
pull the cords through . . .
with any given tensions* , . . . .
Let . . .
be moments round the fixed axes of , . . .
of the forces required to hold the bodies fixed when acted on by the cords thus stretched .
The principle of " " tual velocities , \ldquo ; iust as it came from Lagran ( or the principle of " " work glves lmmediately , in virtue of ( I ) , ( 12 ) ( ) .
Apply and keep applied to each of the bodies , . . .
( in practice by the weights of the pulleys , and by counter-pulling springs ) , such forces as shall have for moments the values . . .
calculated equations ( II ) with atevcr values seem desirable for the tensions . . . .
( Iu ) racticc , the straight parts of the cords are to be approximately , and bodies are to be each balanced on its axis the pullcys incr to it are * The idea of force hcl.c oduced is ssclll idced is not technica ] adnlissible to the ] ) kinematic and of snbjcct pJ'oposed .
But it is not un constl.nc of the algebraic is intended ; and of a , for involve ical conbiderations .
case solllc of ] inlporti/ nt of the puroly algcbroic qucstion conccrned arc intercstmgly illust } by considerations .
Solution of Simultaneous Equations .
emoved , and it is advisable to make the tensions each equal to half he weight of one of the pulleys with its adjustable frame .
) The nachiIle is now rendy for use .
To use it , pull the cords simultaneollsly till equal to . . .
are passed through rings . . .
, respectively .
The required to do may be positive or negative ; in practice , they will be vard or llpward pressures I applied by hand to the weights S remain permanently hanging on the cords .
the angles which the bodies . . .
are urned by this givcn movement of the cords .
These angles arc the required values of the unknown , . . .
the simul ' taneous equations ( I ) The actual construction of a practically useful machine for caJculating as many as or ten or more of ns from the .
number of linear equations does not promise to be either or over-elaborate .
A fair approximation being found by a first tion of the m$chine , a very moderate amount of rhtforward arithmetical ( aided very eously by Crelle 's tion tables ) lffices to calculnte the errors , and allow the ( the sctting of the pulleys ) be -applied to calculate the corrections ( which ] may be treated decimnlly , for con- venience ) : tlIus , 100 times the ftmount of the correction on each of the original utlknowns , to be ncw unknowns , if the tudes thus to be dealt with are convenient for tho There is , of course , 110 limit to the accuracy thus obtainable by successive approximations .
The cxceeding easiness of application of the machine promises well for its real usefulness , whether for cases in which a single suffices , or for others in lvhich requisite accuracy is reached after , three , or more of successive approximations . .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Dr. Philipp Hermann admitted into the The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered them .
The following pers were read : \mdash ;

