" The Brain the sole centre of the Human Nervous System .
" By Edwin Lee , Esq. Communicated by Samuel Solly , Esq. , F.R.S. It has been inferred by many physiologists , from experiments made on the lower animals , that portions of the human nervous system are isolated and independent of each other ; but from the circumstance that in these animals the brain is only a small appendage to the rest of the nervous system , while in the human species it is the principal portion , the author takes an opposite view of the subject .
In man , the grey matter , which is the source of the power of the brain , is largely agglomerated in that organ , but is only diffused in comparatively minute proportions throughout the other parts of the nervous apparatus , which , when detached from the central organ , speedily lose the power of exciting muscular contraction , because this power is derived exclusively from the brain , and only such a portion is retained in the grey matter of the spinal cord and the ganglia of the sympathetic as is requisite for the immediate actions of the parts which they supply with nerves .
Thie opinions of Galen , of Willis , and of the more recent physiologists , Louget , Muller , Duges , Carus , Pinel , Foville , Flourens , Cruveillier , are cited at some length in corroboration of the views of the author , and in opposition to those of Bichat , and others of the older physiologists , together with those of Sir C. Bell , Mr. Grainger , Dr. M. Hall , Kolliker , Stilling , and others , and tending also to disprove.the excito-imotory theory of Dr. M. Hall , as regards its applicability to medical practice .
Quotations to the same effect are given from Valentin , Volkmann , Fauvel , Merry , Cabanis , and Legallois ; and reference is likewise made to pathological illustrations , and to the instances of anencephalous infants , as leading to the following deductions:1 .
In man and the higher mammalia , the brain is the sole centre of the nervous system and the source of its power .
2 .
The grey matter of the spinal chord and the ganglia of the sympathetic are to be considered as reservoirs of this power , for the immediate action of the parts supplied , which speedily become exhausted if communication with the brain be cut off ; and also as modifiers of impressions transmitted from the organs of the brain .
3 .
The automatic and instinctive actions are not performed independently of the concurrence of the brain , though its influence on these actions is less direct and manifest than in the case of voluntary movements .
4 .
In several disorders which have been too exclusively referred to the spinal chord , the brain is the organ principally implicated .

