L879 .
] figure 2 .
figure 3 .
Figure 4 .
Figure 5 .
Figure 6 .
Figure 7 .
m Figure 8 .
Dr. G. Thin .
On Hyaline Cartilage .
Figure 9 .
Figure 10 m w .
Part of a bundle hanging loosely on the free under edge of the same section from which fig. 1 is drawn .
The mosaic of primary bundles is unusually well marked , x 375 .
Elastic fibre , with patches of chloride of gold deposit adherent .
Isolated from adult human skin .
Gold saturation and maceration in 20 per cent , acetic acid , x 340 .
Isolated primary bundles .
Human adult skin .
Gold saturation and maceration in formic acid , x 340 .
Tertiary bundle entwined by elastic fibres .
Human adult skin .
Gold saturation ; maceration in acetic acid , x 340 .
Gold deposit on a large elastic fibre , and a small elastic fibre on the surface of a bundle almost completely enslieathed in gold deposit .
Human adult skin .
Gold saturation ; maceration in acetic acid , x 340 .
An isolated secondary bundle , in which the contours of the primary bundles are visible .
The latter are entwined by minute elastic fibres Human adult skin .
Gold saturation : maceration in formic acid x 340 .
' Bundle showing fibrillss , and snared by an elastic fibre ( spiral fibre ) Human adult skin .
Saturation with glycerine ; picro-carminate staining ( Hartnack , Objective No. 8 ; Eye-piece No. 3 ; Tube in .
) Lines of gold deposit on bundles , following the course of elastic fibres Human adult skin .
Gold saturation : maceration in acetic acid , x 340 .
Elastic fibre with a nucleus adhering to it , and a streak of gold deposit partially detached from the fibre .
( Hartnack , Objective No. 8 ; Eyepiece No. 3 .
) .I !
\#187 ; , , tk * l ft .
II .
" On Hyaline Cartilage and deceptive appearances produced by Reagents , as observed in the examination of a Cartilaginous Tumour of the Lower Jaw .
" By George rlHlN , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received November 25 , 1878 .
[ Plate 3 .
] The following paper is written with a twofold object : firstly , as a contribution to the histology of hyaline cartilage ; secondly , to illustrate how much the apparent structure of a tissue which is being examined microscopically depends on methods of preparation .
A portion of a large tumour of the lower jaw , believed from its naked eye appearances by two experienced surgeons to be sarcomatous in its nature , was given me for examination .
Although I was struck by the peculiar kind of resistance it offered to the knife , I did not imagine at the time , any more than did the surgeons who excised it , that the tumour was cartilaginous .
This is to be explained by the fact that the cartilaginous substance which had been growing with extreme rapidity was of a low type .
In order to determine the structure of the growth , I hardened porDr .
Gr .
Thin .
On Hyaline Cartilage .
[ Jan. 16 , tions of it in different solutions , and then made sections which I stained with various colouring agents .
The sections thus prepared differed from each other in a remarkable manner .
Sections from a portion which had been placed for two days in solution of bichromate of potash were stained by logwood , picro-carminate of ammonia , and eosin respectively .
In all of them the ground substance of the tumour appeared as structureless , and throughout it were interspersed a large number of rounded nuclei .
In the carmine-stained preparations many of the nuclei were immediately P surrounded by this homogeneous substance , without any appearances \#187 ; of what might have been considered as cell-substance or as cell-pro-r cesses being observed .
In some instances a scant , faintly granular stained substance tapered for a very short distance from opposite poles of the nucleus , producing the appearance of a spindle or fusiform cell .
More rarely a long slender stained projection tapered gradually from one of the poles of the nucleus to a considerable distance , and seemed x to end in a fine colourless fibre .
The appearances were such as have x been often described as indicative of cells with branching protoplasmic | processes .
For example , some of these apparent cells resembled accu- o rately the smaller of the coloured figures described by Ranvier in the Id omentum as " vaso-formative cells .
" The sections stained in eosin solution showed somewhat the same 0 appearances , although in a more exaggerated form .
A homogeneous c. unstained ground substance was permeated by process-like prolonga- S tions of a finely granular stained substance which surrounded the Id nuclei , the prolongations from adjoining cellular centres anastomosing .
$ The distribution of these cell-like masses of stained matter was an 3 exact copy of the appearances seen in a cornea stained by gold chlo- \gt ; \#187 ; .
ride when what has been called the " positive image " is successfully h produced , and would certainly quite recently , if not now , have been / described by some histologists as a highly developed protoplasmic n network of branching cells ( fig. 14 ) .
In the logwood sections the nuclei alone were stained , but stretching in various directions from the nucleus strong tapering colourless fibres \#187 ; *t appeared to be given off .
A system of branched cells , in which the W protoplasm was very scant , and the processes highly developed , was w exactly simulated .
This appearance was the more deceptive , as when si the tissue was broken up with needles , numbers of these apparently t branched cells with broken processes were found free in the fluid | ( fig. 13 ) .
Slices of the tumour had been placed fresh in solution of purpurine tl ( Ranvier 's formula ) , and had been allowed to remain in it for several .'1 days .
The surfaces of the slices were well stained , but the colouring ' action of the dye had not penetrated deeply .
Thin sections were J made from the stained surfaces and examined in glycerine .
The 5 Dr. G. Thin .
On Hyaline Cartilage .
ature of the tumour was at once apparent .
Instead of the homo-i ; eneous ground substance seen in the other preparations , a typical L tyaline cartilage , with a large proportion of so-called cartilage cells , i-yas brought into view .
The nuclei were well stained , but the carti-s age substance proper was only very faintly coloured .
In every part : \gt ; f all the purpurine sections the cartilage structure was perfect u\gt ; .
**\#166 ; The purpurine solution contains one-third per cent , alum , and one-n fourth its bulk of methylated alcohol ; and it is to this composition k probably more than to the staining that the preservation of the unstable cartilage substance was due .
T Portions of the tumour which had been placed in half per cent , f solution of osmic acid were teased out , stained in logwood and ex-\#163 ; Jammed in glycerine .
Indications of the cartilaginous structure could be detected , but the preparations were chiefly valuable as demonstrating 9 the nature of the cells .
The cell-substance was stained a darkish :o brown colour , the nucleus was well stained by logwood , and the \gt ; .
ground substance was very feebly stained .
The outlines of the cells j could thus be observed in situ , as well as studied in isolated cells , \#166 ; 8 many of the latter floating free in the fluid .
All the cells observed were flattened , rounded , or somewhat poly-.:\lt ; gonal bodies , with round nuclei ( fig. 12 ) .
Their contours did not :\gt ; correspond exactly with those of the rounded cartilage " capsules " in 1 which they lay .
In order to study the structure of these so-called " capsules , " por-\gt ; tions of the purpurine preparations were broken up .
Considerable ; fragments with even surfaces were thus obtained , with rounded nuclei t on the surfaces .
In some of these there was no trace of the capsule \lt ; formation .
In other fragments a long piece of cartilaginous ground t substance gave off laterally small curved projections , the size of the ; f projection and degree of the curvature showing that they formed parts I of a capsule .
But in no instance was an entire capsule isolated .
On the other hand , a curved projection could sometimes be traced round 4 one side of a capsule , encircling nearly one-half of it , and then passing .
i onwards to form the bent wall of another capsule .
I never observed these projections doubling back round the capsule ( fig. 15 ) .
The examination of this tumour has thus shown that most delusive { appearances as regards the nature of cartilage cells may be sometimes J produced by staining and hardening agents .
Carmine and eosin by I staining an unformed substance that exists in the structure in defined tracts , may simulate branched protoplasmic cells , and bichromate .
and logwood preparations , either in sections or teased out , may as closely simulate cells with fibre processes .
These facts justify serious doubts as to the correctness of interpretation in all cases in which histologists have described branched cells 260 Dr. F. W. Pavy o [ Jan. 16 , in hyaline cartilage , whether the latter existed as a normal structure , Or as a pathological growth .
They further show that , taken alone , carmine or eosin staining should not be held as conclusive evidence of the existence or limits of cellular protoplasm in any animal tissue , j EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
( All the figures are drawn by camera lucida 5 magnifying power x 2G0 .
) Hyaline Cartilage .
Figure 11 .
The normal structure of hyaline cartilage .
Purpurine .
Figure 12 .
Isolated cells .
Osmic acid .
Figure 13 .
Isolated nuclei adherent to portions of cartilage substance , simulating branched cells with fibre-processes .
Bichromate of potash ; logwood .
1 Figure 14 .
Stained substance in the cartilage simulating branched cellular protoplasm .
Bichromate of potash ; eosin .
Figure 15 .
Fragments of cartilage substance separated by needles .
Purpurine .
3 III .
" Volumetric Estimation of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test giving Reduction without Precipitation .
" By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1878 .
To be able to effect the quantitative determination of a body with accuracy and facility is an important matter looked at in relation to the study of its bearings .
In the case of sugar there are no reliable means of precipitating and weighing it , either alone or in combination , and thus in the chemical estimation of this principle an indirect method has to be resorted to .
The only property upon which dependence can be placed , for the purpose of chemical quantitative analysis , is its reducing action , under the influence of heat , upon certain metallic oxides , and that of copper is the one which general experience shows to answer best .
In the ordinary volumetric application of the copper test , the precipitation and diffusion of the reduced suboxide through the liquid interferes with the clear perception of the precise point of complete decoloration , and thus detracts from its delicacy .
For purposes where minute accuracy is of no moment , a sufficiently approximate result can be obtained , but for physiological investigation , and in other cases where precision is indispensable , the process is quite unfit for employment .
With the view of obtaining increased accuracy , chemists have had recourse to the plan of collecting the precipitate of reduced suboxide and weighing it as such or after reconversion into the oxide .
From the difficulty , however , that exists in procuring the metallic oxide in a pure and uniform state , and from the impossibility of completely freeing the filter paper used from adhering surplus copper solution , some uncertainty is given to the results obtained by this method .
T^B ] ?
noq .
; J\#174 ; fa-Soc .
Pi .
3 .
West Newman .
\amp ; c| am ; pill

