]\gt ; Refardation between Components of a Stream of Light .
79 On the Relative Retardation between the Components of a Stream of Light produced by the Passage of the through a Crystalline Plate cut in any Direction with respect to the Faces of the Crystal By JAMES .
Communicated by Professor R. B. CLIFTON , F.R. Received February 29\mdash ; Read March 10 , 1898 .
The relative retardation between the components of a stream of produced by the passage through a crystalline plate can , as is known , only be determined in finite terms in a limited special cases .
In general it is necessary to be content with an solution , and those hitherto published have , as far as I ascertained , never been carried beyond terms of the second with respect to the sine of the angle of incidence of the light , they do not readily lend themselves to a further approximnThe following method of dealing with the problem , which , for the lahour of calculation , can easily be extended of any order , may then be of practical use , and , as leading interesting relation between corresponding terms in the of the roots of a certain biquadratic equation , of some 1 .
Let plane of the paper represent the plane of incidence , or the normaI to the front incident plane wave , OP and normals to the fronts of the two corresponding refracted then if OM , ON , and ON ' represent the spaces these waves .
traverse in unit time , planes through , and perpendito OT , OP , and espectively will represent the positions the fronts of waves would occupy in unit time after and these planes will , by Huygens ' ) , intersect } of the erystalline plate in one straight line , projected on of the figure in the point C. Let OT , OP , and OP ' meet the second surface of the pIate in the 60 Mr. .
Walker .
Retative Retardation between points , and respectively , and i , hrough and perpendicular to OT , meeting it in the points Hi and ; draw llel to the surface of the plate , meeting PE in Draw OD normal to the plate , meeting second surface and let the wave fronts CN and meet this normal in the and Then the riangles O , CON , CQO are similar , as are also triangles OP'D , CON ' , CQ'O , and the triangles , COM .
The relative retardation , measured in time , of the two ways both have traversed the plate , is represented by Hence if the axis of be normal to the plate , and are the equations of the refracted waves in unif , time after through , their relative retardation , measured in Iength.in air , both have traversed the plate is , where is the propagational speed in air , and is the thickness the plate .
Also being the angle of incidence , and , the azimuth of plane of incidence with respect to that of .
In applying this result to the case of a plate cut in any from a biaxal crystal , let the surface of the plate on which the is incident l taken as the plane of , the plate lying on the side positive , and let the plane of XZ be taken so as to contain least axis of elasticity of the crystal .
Let Ox , Oy , Oz be the axes of elasticity , and the angle the angle , then the transformation from the axes of city to the new axes ulay bs effected by the following transformations , each in one plane:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Through an angle , in plane of , from Or , , Oy .
2 ) Through an angle , in the plane , from Oz , to of a Light passing through a ystatline Plate .
81 The formulae for these transformations are\mdash ; which we obtain Now the equation to the wave surface referred to the axes of asticity is the principal wave velocities , and the condition that the Iane be a tangent plane to it , is by eliminating between equations and fence the condition that in the new system of co.ordinates the lane bold touch the wave surface is found by eliruinating between the quations .
The result of this elimination is a biquadratic in , which , from nature of the problem , has two real positive and two real roots , and if are the positive roots of the biquadratic , the retardation required is .
3 .
Before with the general case , these results may be to certain simple cases 82 Mr. J. Walker .
Relative Retardation between 1 ) Let the plate be cut from a uniaxal crystal , then , equation ( i ) gives the two equations and and the vnlues of are given by whence and 2 ) Leb the plate be c1lt from a biaxal crystal the mean line ; then taking the axes of elasticity as the axes , the biquadratic in bscomes or and beino the positive roots of this equation and of a Stream of Light passing through a Crystattine Ptate .
sa Returning to the general equation ( i ) , write co@sin , the equations between which has to be eliminated become ince result of the elimination becomes ; multiplying out and arranging the terms , this equation may be . . . .
( ii ) , ' \ldquo ; ' 84 .
J. Walker .
Retative Retaz dation between Now the roots of equation ( ii ) , , 8 will be funchons of and expanding these in series proceeding according to powers quantity , we may write generally si But ' ' ' and therefore equating the coefficients of like powers of on two sides of these equations , the coefficients may in be determined in succession by means of linear equations , we can determine , which may be at once done , since a.re the roots of the equation Moreover , when this method is practicable , the roots of biquadratic take the following form where .
, For suppose that this is true as far as the terms , and leb denote the sum of the terms in respectiveIy of an order less than , then we may write of a Stream of Light passing through Crystaltine Ptate .
85 neglecting the prodncts of the 's with one } , , and with since such products will introduce terms that we shall not we have , Hence if denote the coefficients of in , and denote the coefficient of in the expresion within vinculum , the equations that determine these quanties are\mdash ; ( 1 ) If , say , , say , and from the first and third of these equations , we have , unless which relations hold whatever be .
( 2 ) If , say , and from the second and fourth of these equations , unless ; and when , so 86 Mr. J. Walker .
Relative Retardation between Leaving then for the present the case in which , the have the form given above , and ' whence the terms of which may be readily calculated in succession .
5 .
It is now necessary to consider the case reserved above , which .
When this occnrs , the two refracted waves , ponding to normal incidence of the light , traverse the plate with same velocity , and hence the plate is perpendicular to an optic The case , then , of a cut perpendicularly to an optic requires a special investigation .
Now for a plate so cut\mdash ; and the biquadratic ( ii ) has the form $where ' of a Stream of Lioht passing through a stalline Ptate .
87 riting n for , the equation becomes ' Let us , in the first place , the coefficient of , then we and the roots are , , and writing for shortness , , we have 88 Mr. J. Walker .
Retardation between Components , , . . . .
Suppose now that the actual the biquadratic are\mdash ; then which , on reducing and simplifying , become Let wit expressions for 13 , ; the terms involving give\mdash ; and and from the terms ving obtain\mdash ; of a Stream of Light through a ystalline Ptate .
89 and Va Again , from the terms involving and Similarly the terms involving give\mdash ; , or Hence and al1 so on .
Hence , as far as terms of bhe fourth order , where 90 Retative Retardation between Components of a Stream of and the difference of the positive roots being , we have , the same degree of approximation , X 6 .
The proposition 011 which the above investigation depends first suggested to me by an analogous theorem given by McCullagh , * in connection with the surface of wave-slowness , or , as he terms it , the surface of refraction or index surface ; in fact , the one may be deduced from the other by reciprocating with respect to a sphere of unit radius concentric with the surfaces .
I have since found that Zech has employed the same principle for the determination of the rings of biaxial crystals , but his method of dealing with the biquadratic equation is essentially different from that given above , and leads only to the determination of terms of the second order .
My thanks are also due to Mr. J. L. S. Hatton for some useful suggestions that led me to the adoption of the above methods of approximation .
* ' Collected Works , ' p. 46 .
The first pedal of the wave-surface is sometimes erroneously called the surface of wave.slowness ; but , as Sir William Hamilton calls the inverse of the wave- velocity the wave.slowness , the inverse of thia surface , or the polar reciprocal of the wave-surface , is properly the surface of wave-slowness .
That this was the name given to the polar reciprocal of face by Sir Wnliam Hamilton appears from Lloyd 's " " Report on Physic Optics\ldquo ; ( Collected Works , ' p. 122 ) , and from McCullagh ' Collected Works , ' p. 96 ) , though in his papers he cffils it the surface of components of normal slowness .
'Pogg .
Ann vol. p. 129 ; vol. 102 , p. 354 .

