IV .
Ob3ervatt0ns of a qut8tEple Belt on the Planet Satarn By William Herschels LL. D. Fe Re 5s Read Deceruber z9 1793* nW tVERY analogy that can be traced ln the appearance of the planets , seems to throw some additional light on what we know of them already In some of my former papers I have established the spheroidical tbrm of the planet Saturrl and pointed out the motion of a spot on its disk .
From the first of these may be infbrred a considerable rotation on its axis ; while the latter goes a step farther , , and shows that it has such a motionv My late observations seem to hint to usg that the perlod in-which it revolves iS probably , not of a long dura tionX Thqy are as follows : Nolr s , 1793 .
sh 3$t9 7-feet reflector power e87 i Close to the ring of Saturn , where it passes across the body of the planet is the shadow of the ring g verJr rlarrowS and blacl &lt; .
See Taba VIi fig. .
Immediately south of the slaadow is a bri ; ht uniform and breae .
Je t. Closv to this bright belt is a bread , darker belt ; which is dierided by two narrowf white streaks ; so that by this meanst it becomes to be fi5/ re belts ; rlamely three darkS and two bright 0nt$ ; the colour of the dark belt is yellowishl .
The space from the quintuple belt towards the south pole of the planet which is iti view , is of a pale , whitish colour ; less bright than the whte quatorial belt , and much less so than the ring. .
The globular form of Saturais:very visible , so that it has by no means the appearance of a flat disk .
Notl .
&lt; 8 3 3o ' .
The quintuple belt on Saturn iS as it wasNov .
1o .
I saw it three hours ; ago and several times since , without any visible change NOV .
19 , Sh 14t , The southern belt of Saturn is still divided into fi^re .
The evening is not clear enough to observe changes in It , if there were any .
; Nov. 22 2h 32t .
The quintuple belt on Saturn remains still the same , power 287 .
With 4So , I see the same very distinctly but the small di wisions haare hardly light enough when so much magnifiedf I vievsred the same belt with four different object specula One of them she-wed the dinfisions uncommonly well .
Dec. g Qh 35t .
7-feet reflector ; power e87 .
The quintuple beltupon Saturn-remains as ltwas Nov. 22 .
I tried ssveral tdouble and pla2R0-concarre eye-glasses but found them all defective in figure except one , and that being of one inch focal length , the power was too low to expect see ing these belts well with it .
The smallness of the field of view , with astronomical ob3ects is not so disSreeable as it is generally supposed to be ; for the eye may have a motion before the lens , andloy that means a small lu-minous sbJect , when all the rest cf the field is dark and while the telescope remains in ttLe same situation , may be wen for as lotlg a times passing through the field of a concaare eye-glassn as it can in a convexSone ; whereas with the latter , it is well known that such a motion of the eye can be of no use .
2h g6 ' .
20-feet reflector ; power xS7 , SooS 480 .
I see the quintuple belt very well .
-We know that the planet Jupiter has marly belts So:me re markable instances of their being very nulnerous are recorded in my journal , one of which is accompanied with a figure .
The observations are as follows May 28 , 1780 .
Jupiters belts are curved ; and there are a multitude of them all over the body of the planet .
See fig. 2 .
Jan. 18 , o790 .
I viewed Jupiter with the 40-feet reflector There were two very dark , broad belts divided by an equa. .
torial zone or space , the colour of whicl1 was of a yellow caste .
Next to the dark belts , on each side , towards the poles , were bright and dark small belts , alternately placed , and continued almost up to the poles , both ways .
In taking out fig. 2 .
from my journal , I perceive one so very unlike it just before , that I am induced to give it here though rather foreign to:my present purpose .
It contairls , howeverv an oleservation which it will 1lot : be amiss to record.\#162 ; April 69 o7So .
I had a fine view of Jupitet , and saw , as soon sIS -I I-ooked into the telescope , without having any previous notice of it , the shadow of the Sd satellite , and thesatellite itself , UpOll the lonver part of the disk .
See fig. The shadow ^raS so black and well d@fined , that I attempted to measure ity and found its diameter by the micrometer t " , -S6S rrhis measure of the shadow should be checked by the fol lowing observation .
A{arcil r 1792 .
1lh 5+ ' .
With the 20-feet reflector , and a power of 800 &gt; I estimate the apparent diameter of the largest Of Jupiter 's satellites to be less than onefoiirtll of the diameter of the GEORGI-AN planet , which I have just beeh viewing .
With 12oo , it seems also to be less3 in the saule proportion .
With e4oo , I can plainly perceiere the disk of the satellite .
Wit11 4800 , the apparent diameter of the largest of X11e satel lites is less than one-quarter of that of the GEORGIAN P1aNete The analogy alluded to ill the first paragraph of this paper , refers to the llumerous parallel belts which we have noticedv in the above given observations , on the disks of Jupiter and Saturn .
rrhat belts are immediately contlected with the rotation of the planets will hardly be denied , when those of Jupiter are so well known always to lie in the direction of its equatorial motion .
Since , then , it appears that the belts of Saturn are very numerous like those of Jupiter , and are also placed in the dlrection of the longest diameter of the planet , it may not be without some reason that we infer the period of the rotation of the former to be short , like that of the latter .
The planet Mars , in all my observations , never presented itself with any parallel belts , nor do we observe such phno mena on the disk of Venus .
The first is known to have a rotation much slower than Jupiter ; e and the latter , according to the accounts of CAS S IN I and BI ANCH IN IX is certainly not one that moves quickly upon its axis .
However , I do not mean to enter into the strength of an argument for a quick rotation of Saturn that may be drawn from the condition of its belts .
The circumstance of a quinSee Phil. Trans. XJolX LXXI .
Part I. page I34 .
tuple-Belt , Sc. tuplebelt , is:adduced herewith no.other.view,7.than merely to point out an analogy in the condition of the .
two largest planets of cour system^ , and from thence to infer , that every conclusion on the atmosphere and rotation of the one , drawn from the appearance of itsAbelts , -zfwsll equallyXappW to the other4 $10ugh , near Windsors WM XHERSCH ; ELo Dec. I47 3[7*9$ ; e -r o_ , mv6i| -2 = = &gt; r ' Ae'.._.__ r 7l'--r%4 s. ' e !
&lt; 41 &gt; t &gt; ns , 'tE ' ' , ; _,. .
'-'..C..UE,..o. .
__ .
, -ronro .
S er , , ' ' t ; o^ .
&gt; w..a u- : ' " ; ; , &gt; ^ ; ;K-Ses _@h , = , -w'S ' ' ... . .
, S , , , &lt; ; ,.St _ t_ S oS ; ; _ Pht7otf .
ftrfiz\#162 ; s. MOCCXClaZ .
VI .
, @ .
32 .

