II .
On .
the Composition of the Compound Sulphuret from Huel Boys , and an Account of its Crystals .
By James Smithson , Esq. F. R. S. Read January 28 , i8o8 .
IT is but very lately that I have seen the Philosophical Transactions for 18o4 , and become acquainted with the two papers on the compound sulphuret of lead , antimony , and copper contained in the first part of it , which circumstance has prevented my offering sooner a few observations on Mr. HATCHETT'S experiments , which I deem essential towards this substance being rightly considered , and indeed the principles of which extend to other chemical compounds ; and also giving an account of the form of this compound sulphuret , as that which has been laid before the Society is very materially inaccurate and imperfect .
We have no real knowledge of the nature of a compound substance till we are acquainted with its proximate elements , or those matters by whose direct or immediate union it is produced ; for these only are its true elements .
Thus , though we know that vegetable acids consist of oxygene , hydrogene , and carbon , we are not really acquainted with their composition , because these are not their proximate , that is , are not their elements , but are the elements of their elements , or the elements of these .
It is evident what would be our acquaintance with sulphate of iron ; for example , did we only know that a crystal of it consisted of iron , sulphur , oxygene , and lydrogene ; or of carbonate of lime , if only that it was a coiipound of lime , carbon or diamond , and oxygene .
In fact , totally dissimilar substances may have the same ultimate elellenits , aid even probably in precisely the same lpro)ortiollns nitrate of ammonia , aiitl hydrate of amllmonia , or crystals of caustic volatile alkali , " * botl ultinlately consist of oxytgene , hydrogeiie , and azote .
It is not probable that the present ore is a direct quadruple combination of the three metals and sulphur , that these , in their simple states , are its immediate component parts ; it is much more credible that it is a combination of the three sulphurets of these metals .
On this presumption I have made experiments to determine the respective proportions of these sulphurets in it .
I Iiave found io graills of galena , or sulphuret of lead , to produce 1i.5 grains of sulphate of lead .
Hence the 60.1 grains of sulphate lead , which Mr. HATCHETT obtained , correspond to 48.08 grains of sulpluret of lead .
I have found 10 grains of sulphuret of antimony to afford 11 , o grains of precipitate from muriatic acid by water .
Hence 31.5 grains of this precipitate are equal to 28.64 grains of sulphuret of antimony .
The want of sulphuret of copper has prevented my determining the relation between it and black oxide of copper , but this omission is , it is evident , inmmaterial , as the quantity of this sulphuret in the ore must be the complement of the sum of the two others .
But as the iron is a foreign adventitious substance in 'this ore , it follows that the foregoing quantities are the products of only 96.65 grains of it .
loo parts of the ore are therefore composed of Sulphuret of lead 49.7 Sulphuret of antimony 29.6 Sulphuret of copper 20.7 100.0 It is impossible not to be struck with the trifling alteration which these quantities require to reduce them to very simple proportions , or to think it a very great violation of probability to suppose that experiments , effected with no errors , would have given them thus : Sulphuret of lead 50 .
Sulphuret of antimony 30 .
Sulphuret of copper 20 .
However , I doubt the existence of triple , quadruple , &amp;c. compounds ; I believe , that all combination is bizaly ; that no substance whatever has more than two proximate or true elements ; and hence I should be inclined to consider the present compound as a combination of galena and fahlertz ; and if so , it will be accurately represented , as far as chemical analysis has yet been able to go , by the following figure : F sulphur igalena= lead Compound sulphuret g lea of lead , antimony , = and copper sulphuret of sulphur .
antimony antimony .
fahlertzsulphuret iy oua ltiuony .
L sulphuret of _r ' sulphur .
copper .
copper .
Its ultimate elements are therefore , Sulphur 20 ... Lead 41 ... = S ~~~cccvii I. ~~~ 4I -o I Antimony 25 .
: , = , , ts Copper i3- ... =andit:is not a little remarkable , that here , as as was the case with:the calamine , * they are sexagesimal fractions of it .
When in : a former paper I offered a system on the propor- ; tions of the elements of compounds , -I : supported it by the results of my : on experiments , which might be supposed influenced , even unconsciously to myself , by a favourite'hypothesis , and I made the application of it prindpally to a substance whose nature was not very clear .
But the presentcase is not liable to these objections : hereno fondness to thetheorycan bee suspected of having led astray , -nor idid even the l : peri ments as they came from their:author 's han ds , ber an appearance in the least favourable to it , and yet when eproperly considered , they are found to accord no less remarkably with its principles .
It is evidenttt that there must be a precise quntity in-ich the elements of compounds are united together in them , ofher- .
wise a matter , which was not a simple one , would !
be liable , in its several masses , to vary from itself , according as one or other of its ingredients chanced to predominate:b ; Auh::lehmical experiments are unavoidably attended with too many sources of fallacy for this precise quantity to be discovered byhllem ; it is therefore to theory that we must owe the knowledge of it .
For this purpose an hypothesis must be made- , :.aid its justness tried by a strict comparison with facts .
If they are found at variance , the assumed hypothesis ' must be::elinquished with candour as erroneous , but should it , :on the contrary prove , on a multitude of trials , invariably ' to:accdrd ith the results of observation , as nearly aso-ur means of determination authorise us to expect , we are warrated in believing that the principle:fnature is obtained , a-swe then ^ay , all the profs rof dits being so , which men can have of thejst"esas of.itheir theories:.a constant and perfect p agree me , nit twthe phnmenm a,.as fras i.can be discovered .
T:The great criterion:in.the pesent as .
isi whethr r ; on .
the conv:ersion.of a substance into its-s everal .
, compoeunds , i and -o of these into noneanother , hee imple ratios awysi:otain which th principlesofthe theory require .
Amongst the multitude of instances which--TI uld adduce , in support of such leing the fact , I will : fori the.::sake -.of brevity , confine.mysel..to : a few lin thke .
substances which have come under consideration aeboves hey wil likewise .
givee thgrounds on which some dfthe proportionsin thet table have been assigned , and evry chemist , by a careful repetition of the experiments , may easily dete.rmineforshlmf t what attention the present theory is entited .
Lead ; ;.of sulphate of lead of sulphuret of lead _Sulphuret ; oflieadi:-..i of lead =.of sulphate of lead Sulphate.oflead = of lead _ of sulphuret of lead Antimony 3.= of powder of algoroth =6 of sulphuret of antimony Suilphuret of anti .
money := Iof powder of algoroth .
In the experiments by whichthese relations were ascertained , the portion of powder of algoroth and sulphate of lead Ia mcdissolV6din fmthe precpittng : and:washing 'waters , was scruplotidlyIollected : .
Th:iiportance:of ae kin tledge of the truequantityin which matteres combine , is to : evidnt to requireto e det upon : ; " but:i this imporitance will be greatly : augmented , if it should prove that this quantity is , as ass been suggested , exptessive of the : forces with which they attract each other .
It is perhaps in the form of matters that we shall find , the ; cause off the proportions in which they unite , and a proof , a prioi , of the system here maintained .
I have examined some of the grey ores of copper in tetraedral crystals ; but the notes of my experiments are in England .
: : I can , however , say , that they do contain antimony , and that they do not contain iron in any material quantity With respect to the proportions of the constituent parts , I c-aannot now speak with any certainty ; but , Is think , that at least some species of fahlertz contain a smaller portion of sulph frej 9f antimony , than the fahlertz does which exists -asan e , emeiit in the foregoing compound one .
Of the Form of this Substance .
Of the seventeen figures which have been given , as of the crystals of this compound sulphuret , in Part II of the volue of the Transactions for 18o4 , great part are acknowledged to have no existence , nor are indeed any of them consistenlt with nature .
This substanceseems to have yet offered but:nform and wb whii srepresetd i nthe:annexed Plate under its twoprin cipal appearances ; that is , having the primitive facesth , tpre domiinant ftones of , the p ris : and havig the sec ndar nes such , an which w wl be fullysufficient tokmake it kwn i ?
In .
the fist infancy of the study of crystals , it ight-benecessary att to ver , the most trif ing , aion o them , to trace : each oftheirhanges , step by step , to ; as it : were , th:subj ?
eat:i ; but in thet state to which .
the.sciece- .
has .
now attine , to continue to dlo so would be not only superfuous , but most truly puerile .
I have a very small , but very regular , crystal of the form of Fig ... By mensuration the faces a and m appear to form together an-angle of about 1 , b and the faces c and b an angle of about It is:said , in the account above-quoted , that the primitive form of this matter is a rectangular tetaedral prism , but no proofs of thishave been offered ; nor have the dimensions of this prism been given , :a circumstance of the first moment to the determination of true or primitive form , nor have.any quantsiies been assigned to the decrements supposed .
-I will , therefore , supply these very important omissions .
That the atom of this substance is a rectangular tetraedral prism , is inferable , not from the striae on the crystals , for strie ate by nto means invariably indicative of a decrement in the diredtion of them ; but from the angles which the faces a and -c m-ake ithth he : faces m and b , and these angles also prove , thatthe height of this prism is equal to the side of its base , that is , that it is a cube .
HencI theface a is produced , by a , decrease : of one row of atoms along the edge of the cube , and the angle it forms with the face m is really of 135 ? .
The face c is produced by a decrease of two rows of atoms at the corners of the cube , and the angle it forms with the face b is = 125 ? ?
15 ' 52 " .
The face b being produced like the face a , forms the same angle with the face m. No crystal I possess , has enabled me to measure the inclinations of the faces g , d , orf ; should the face g , as is presumable , result from a decrease of one row of atoms at the corners of the cube , it will form with the face b , an angle of 144 44 ' 8 " , and if the faces d and f are , as is also probable , produced by a decrease of two rows of atoms along the edges of the cube , the first will form an angle of 116 ? ?
33 ' 54 " , and the latter one of 153 ? ?
26 ' 6 " , with the face m. The angles assigned here differ considerably from those given in the former account of these crystals ; but the angles there given have not only appeared to me to be contradicted by observation , but , crystallographically considered , are inconsistent with each other , as the tetraedral prism of dimensions to produce an angle of 135 ?
by a decrement along its edge , would not afford angles of 14o ?
and 12o ?
by decrements at its corners .
The sum of the faces of these crystals is 50 , &lt; &amp; s ,

