A Letter of the Honorable Robert Boyle of Sept. 13.1673 .
to the Publisher , concerning Amber Greece , and its being a Vegetable Production .
SIR SOme occasions calling me this afternoon up to London , I met there with a very Intelligent Gentleman , who was ready to go out of it ; but before he did so , he willingly spared me some time to discourse with him about some of the Affairs of our East-Indian Company , of which he was very lately Deputy Governor ; and , his year being expired , is still one of the chief of the Court of Committees , which a foreigner would call Directors that manage all the affairs of that considerable Society .
And among other things talking with him about some Contents of a Journal lately taken in a Dutch EastIndian prize , I learnt from him , that he , who understands that language very well , is now perusing that Manuscript , and , among many things recorded there that concern the Oeconomical and Political affairs of the said Dutch company , he met with one Physical Observation which he thought so rare , that remembring the curiosity I had expressed for such things , he put it into English , and transcribed it for me , and immediately drawing it out of his pocket he presented me the short paper , whereof I now show you the Copy : Upon perusal of which , you will very easily believe , that not only his Civility obliged me , but the Information it brought me surprised me too .
For , the several trials and observations of my own about Amber Greece have long kept me from acquiescing either in the vulgar opinions , or those of some Learned men concerning it ; yet I confess , my Experiments did much less discover what it is , than this paper has done , in case we may safely and entirely give credit to its Information , and that it reach to all kinds of Ambergreece .
And probably you will be invited to look on this account , though not as complete , yet as very sincere , and on that score Credible , if you consider , that this was not written by a Philosopher to broach a Paradox , or serve an Hypothesis , but by a Merchant or Factor for his Superiors , to give them an account of a matter of fact ; and that this passage is extant in an authentic Journal , wherein the affairs of the Company were by publique order from time to time registered at their chief Colony Batavia .
And it appears by the paper it self ; that the Relation was not looked upon as a doubtful thing , but as a thing from which a practical way may be deduced to make this Discovery easily Lucriferous to the Dutch Company .
And I could heartily wish , that in those Countries that are addicted to long Navigations , more notice than is usual were taken and given of the Natural Rarities that occur to Merchants and Sea-men .
On which occasion I remember , when I had , in compliance with my Curiosity , put my-self into our East-Indian Company , and had , by their Civility to me , been chosen of their Committee as long as my Health allowed me to continue so , I had the opportunity in some Register books of Merchants , English and Dutch , to observe some things , which would easily justify this wish of mine , if my haste and their Interest would permit me to acquaint others with them .
But to return to our Account of Amber-greece I think you will easily believe , that , if I had received it not by a Paper but immediately from the Writer , I should , by proposing divers Questions , have been enabled to give you a much more satisfactory account than this short one contains .
But the obliging person that gave it me , being just going out of Town , I could not civily stay him to receive my Quaere 's about it ; which though ( God permitting ) I may propose ere long , if I can light on him again , yet I fear he has given me , in these few lines , all that he found about this matter .
However this Relation as short as it is , being about the Nature of a drug so precious and so little known , will not , I hope , be unwelcome to the Curious ; to whom none is so like to convey it so soon and so well as Mr. O ; whose forwardness to oblige others by his various Communications challenges Returns of the like nature from others , and particularly from his Affectionate Humble servant .
Follows the Extract it self out of a Dutch Journal , belonging to the Dutch East-Indian Company .
AMber-Greece is not the Scum or Excrement of the Whale , &amp;c. but issues out of the Root of a Tree , which Tree how far soever it stands on the Land , always shoots forth its roots towards the Sea , seeking the warmth of it , thereby to deliver the fattest Gum that comes out of it : Which tree otherwise by its copious fatness might be burnt and destroyed .
Wherever that fat Gum is shot into the Sea , it is so tough , that it is not easily broken from the root , unless its own weight and the working of the warm Sea doth it , and so it floats on the Sea .
There was found by a Soldier 7/ 8 of a pound , and by the chief , two pieces weighing five pounds .
If you plant the Trees where the stream sets to the shore , then the stream will cast it up to great advantage .
March 1 .
1672 .
in Batavia , Journal Advice from-

