426 Dr. Royston-Pigott on [ June 19 , XX .
" Observations on the Functions of the Ganglia which are formed in the Posterior Roots of the Spinal Nerves .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19,1873 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives a summary of the history of the discovery of the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves , and expresses the intention of stating his views respecting the functions of the cervical and thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic nerve and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves in a future communication .
XXI .
" Researches in Circular Solar Spectra , applied to test Residuary Aberration in Microscopes and Telescopes , and the construction of a Compensating Eyepiece , being a sequel to the paper on a Searcher for Aplanatic Images .
" By G. West Royston-Pigott , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
, Memb. Roy .
Coll. Phys. , Fellow of the Camb .
Phil. Soc. , the Royal Ast .
Society , \amp ; c. , and late Fellow of St. Peter 's Coll. , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 24 , 1873 .
The researches detailed in the present paper were commenced in May 1871 .
The results arrived at were largely obtained from using the microscope .
Similar but less brilliant and more scanty appearances can be obtained with the telescope ; but the very high power and ready adaptability of the former confers some advantages not offered by the latter .
In both , however , the same principles are illustrated .
A cone of rays of small angular aperture having the object-glass for its base in each case engages the eyepiece and emerges parallel , and the eyepieces are similar in each .
Peculiar facilities for studying solar spectra and their indications of aberrations and mechanical errors also are afforded by the former .
The focal plane of vision may be employed to examine the effects of the interference of complex cones of light of large angular aperture , at least twenty times larger than those observable by the telescope .
The subject of the optical contacts of Venus at the coming transit confers peculiar interest on the nature of accurate definition of the final image presented to the eye-glass , especially as the new parallax will be entirely dependent on the keen definition of the four contacts .
The discovery by the writer of an unsuspected residuary aberration^ the best microscopes , described in the Philosophical Transactions for 18 70 , renders it probable that some such a residuum still remains in telescopes , and this might impair the accuracy of such delicate observations as the ap parent contacts between Venus and the solar limb .
Eyepieces , abounding

