Experiments and Observations to prove that the beneficial Efects of many Medicines are produced through the Medium of the circulating Blood , more particularly that of the Colchicum autumnale upon the Gout .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Communicated by the Society for Improving Animal C'hemistry .
Read March 21 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 257 .
] The Eau medicinale of Husson , says the author , has most fortunately been discovered to be a specific remedy for the cure of gout ; and he considers it to be now ascertained , by experiments of different persons , that this medicine is a vinous infusion of the Colchicum autumnale , or Meadow Saffron .
He therefore hoped that an endeavour to ascertain its mode of action would be interesting to the Society for the Promotion of Animal Chemistry , whose objects are not confined to mere chemical combinations , but include the effects of galvanism on the nerves , and of mineral and vegetable solutions on the blood , and thereby on the healthy and morbid actions of life .
Although the late Mr. Hunter had ascertained , by experiments , that medicines injected directly into the circulating system produce in general the same effects as when taken into the stomach , he was not aware that even in the latter case ( as has been proved by later experiments ) these effects are not produced till they have reached the circulation by means of the absorbent system .
With respect to mercury , which appears to be the only specific hitherto known for any disease , it is completely established ( says the author ) , by experiment , that this remedy , when in the circulation , is as effectual for the cure of recent chancre from the original application of venereal matter , as for constitutional symptoms in consequence of its absorption into the circulation .
It is observed , that the effect of Colchicum autumnale on goiut is more rapid than that of mercury on the venereal disease , which admits of explanation , upon the supposition , that one is more rapidly received into the circulation than the other .
With respect to the powers of this drug , the author speaks from experiments on his own person , having himself taken it at least six different times , for relief from local symptoms of gout , which it has removed , once in six hours , and at others in less than twenty-four hours .
With a view to ascertain the effects of this medicine introduced directly into the circulation , he substituted a dog as the subject of experiment .
This dog 's pulse in a natural state was 140 in a minute .
In five minutes after injection of thirty drops of a vinous infusion of colchicum , diluted with a drachm of water , into the jugular vein , the pulse became fluttering , accompanied with a tremulous motion of the muscles , and nausea , but without retching to vomit .
In less than a quarter of an hour the pulse intermitted , and was 180 in a minute .
In four hours the pulse had fallen to 120 , but still intermitted .
In seven hours the dog had a natural motion .
Its pulse had returned to the natural standard of 140 in a minute , and he appeared perfectly recovered from the effects of the experiment .
After three days , sixty drops of the same infusion were given to the same dog to swallow .
In two hours he became languid ; his pulse wiry and weak , but still 140 in a minute .
In four hours the languor was less , the pulse natural .
In eight hours he had a natural motion , and in eleven hours appeared perfectly recovered from this dose .
The effects of this medicine upon the dog and upon Sir Everard Home , as far as they were sensible , were very similar , but differed in degree .
Sir Everard , in consequence of an attack of the gout , took sixty drops of the Eau medicinale .
In two hours he became hot and thirsty .
In three hours the pain became tolerable while the limb was at rest .
In seven hours he had a confined motion from the bowels .
There was a degree of nausea .
The pulse , iwhich is naturally 80 , was lowered to 60 in a minute , with occasional intermissions .
In ten hours little remained except some degree of languor , with the pulse at 70 , which on the following morning was restored to its natural standard , with removal of all symptoms of gout .
If these observations shall be confirmed , , says the author , we must conclude that the different kinds of substances which produce specific diseases are first carried into the circulation , in the same manner as mineral and animal poisons ; and that the medicines by which they are acted upon go through the same course before they produce their beneficial effects .

