466 Mr. J. E. Green .
Changes in the Proteids in the [ Dec. 16 , these compounds when in solution lose their colour almost as rapidly as chlorophyll itself , those containing copper are remarkably stable , since their solutions may be exposed for many weeks to light and air without undergoing any apparent change .
The products derived from phyllocyanin by reduction are next described .
The action of tin and hydrochloric acid on phyllocyanin passes through two distinct stages .
During the first stage a colouring matter is formed which is remarkable from its solutions showing no less than eight absorption bands .
The product formed during the next stage of the process is interesting from its yielding solutions of a bright red colour without any tinge of green , and from its resembling in some respects the colouring matters of red flowers .
VI .
" On the Changes in the Proteids in the Seed which accompany Germination .
" By J. K. Green , B.Sc. , B.A. , Demonstrator of Physiology in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. K.S. Deceived November 25 .
( Abstract .
) The processes of the germination of the seed have been in recent years investigated by v. Gorup-Besanez , who in a series of papers written in 1874 and 1875 , * has stated that the changes in the reserve proteid materials are probably due to the action of a proteolytic ferment , as from the seeds of the vetch , hemp , flax , and barley plants he was able to extract a body which converted fibrin into peptone .
Later , in 1878 , Krauchf disputed v. Gorup-Besanez 's conclusions , and claimed that his results were erroneous on account of imperfect methods of working .
As v. Gorup-Besanez based his statement partly on the detection of peptone by the biuret test after the digestion had gone on for some time , and partly on a diminution of the fibrin , Krauch explained his results by saying that the digestive extract itself gave a biuret reaction , and that the diminution of the fibrin was only due to a shrinkage of its flocks .
During the past year I have been carrying out a series of experiments bearing upon this disputed point , and have succeeded in demonstrating in the seeds of the lupin ( ) the existence of such a ferment as v. Gorup-Besanez stated to be present , and in ascertaining some particulars as to its condition in the resting seed , the nature and conditions of its action , and the changes which * ' Deutsch .
Chetn .
G-esell .
Ber./ 1874 , p. 1478 .
Ibid.,1875 .
\#166 ; f " Beitrage zur Kenntniss der ungeformfcen Eercnente in den Pflanzen , ' 'Band-\#166 ; wirfchscb .
Versuchs-Stat .
, ' vol. 27 , 1878 , p. 383 .
1886 .
] Seed which accompany Germination .
467 it brings about not only in the course of its action on fibrin , but also on the alenrone or proteid reserve material in the seed itself .
The method which I used in the investigation was somewhat different from that of v. Gorup-Besanez .
As Krauch claimed that the biuret reaction obtained was due to some proteid in the digestive extract used , and as the vegetable peptones found in the seed of the lupin do not dialyse , while true peptone does so readily , I carried on my digestions always in carefully tested tubes of dialysing paper , so that the fluid outside the latter might enable me to see if peptone were really formed or no. Seeds of Lupinus were germinated for about a week , till they had protruded a radicle of about 1-^ inch in length ; they then gave an acid reaction to litmus-paper .
They were divested of their coats , the radicles removed , and the cotyledons ground .
The resulting powder was extraoted with glycerine , and the extract dialysed till no trace of any crystalline bodies that had been formed during the germination could be detected in the dialysate .
No trace of peptone or other body giving a biuret reaction passed the dialyser , even after a week 's exposure .
The extract was then aoidified with HC1 to the extent of 0*2 per cent. , put into a fresh dialyser , some swollen-up boiled fibrin added , and the dialyser put into a beaker and surrounded with 0*2 per cent. HC1 .
It was then left at a temperature of 40 ' C. Control experiments , some with boiled digestive extract , some with 0*2 per cent. HC1 only , were carried out side by side with the others .
The process of digestion was very slow , the time taken up being very much more prolonged than is the case with the gastric or pancreatic ferments .
After some time , however , , the dialysate in the beaker containing the tube in which the unboiled extract of the cotyledons had been placed gave a very marked biuret reaction , and after concentration it deposited^ crystals of leucin .
The other dia-lysates contained no peptone or crystalline body .
I repeated the experiments many times with varying quantities of the extract of the cotyledons and with varying amounts of fibrin , and in all cases I was able to see that a proteolytic ferment was present in the germinating seed , and that it formed not only peptone but leucin , behaving like pancreatic rather than gastric juice .
In this latter particular I am somewhat at variance with v. Gorup-Besanez , who says he was not able to see that the decomposition of the fibrin proceeded beyond the stage of peptone .
Further investigations into the condition of the action of the ferment showed that it worked best in a medium acidified to the extent of 0*2 per cent. HC1 : that the temperature most favourable for its working was 37\#151 ; 40 ' C. , that its activity was somewhat impeded by the presence of excess of neutral salts , and that it was speedily destroyed by contact with alkalis , even to the extent of 1 per cent. 468 Changes in the Seed accompanying Germination ; [ Dec. 16 , In the resting seed the ferment exists in the form of a zymogen , as is the case with those of the stomach and other digestive organs .
This is , however , very readily converted into the active ferment by contact with dilute acids .
The point was somewhat difficult of proof , but was ascertained by a modification of the method adopted by Langley and Edkins* in their work on the condition of the ferment in the gastric glands .
From this paper it appears that while both alkalis and C02 destroy both the ferment and the zymogen , the latter is much more easily affected by C02 than the former .
I found this to be the case with the extracts of the seeds .
After a stream of C02 had been passed through them , treatment with acid failed to make them active , though the acid soon developed ferment-power in extracts not treated with the gas .
The reaction of the resting seeds was neutral .
The proteids existing in the seeds of have been ascertained by Vinesf to consist of hemialbumose and globulin .
I prepared from a quantity of the resting seeds a considerable bulk of these by the methods Vines describes , and submitted them in a state of fair purity to the action of the ferment .
The outcome of a long series of experiments so carried out was that the proteids of the seeds were changed by the ferment in much the same way as fibrin .
There was soon a quantity of parapeptone formed , which was soluble readily in weak acids or alkalis .
This was followed or accompanied by the appearance of peptone , and later , leucin and asparagin were formed .
The latter bodies were obtained in some quantity by the method described by v. Gorup-BesanezJ for the separation of leucin from other bodies in the fluids in which it is found .
This course of digestion of the seed proteids was confirmed by examination of the seeds at different stages in their natural germination .
In those which were just starting , parapeptone in quantity was present in the germinating cotyledons ; a little later abundance of peptone was found .
In no case was peptone found in the radicles , but from these plenty of asparagin was easily obtainable .
Besides the biuret test for the peptone a more delicate one was generally used , which has been described by many writers .
It consists in freeing the solution from all other proteids by boiling with freshly prepared ferric acetate and then adding to it acetic acid and phosphotungstate of soda .
Peptone is then precipitated .
The conclusions which seem to follow from the whole course of the experiments are:\#151 ; 1 .
There exists in the seed of the lupin when germinating a proteo* * Journal of ' Physiology , ' vol. 7 , p. 371 ( 1886 ) .
f ' Journal of Physiology , ' toI .
3 , p. 93 ( 1881 ) .
J * .
Anlcitung zur qualitative ! !
und quantitativen Zoochemischen Analyse .
1886 .
] Eclipse of the Sun in 1886 observed at .
469 lytic ferment which will convert fibrin into peptone and then into leucin and tyrosin .
2 .
This exists in the resting seed in the form a zymogen , which is easily convertible into the ferment .
3 .
The ferment acts best in a slightly acid medium ; its activity is hindered by neutral salts and destroyed by alkalis , and it is most active at a temperature of 40 ' C. 4 .
The process of germination is started or accompanied by a transformation of the zymogen into ferment on the absorption of water and the development of vegetable acids in the cells of the seed .
5 .
The ferment so developed converts the proteids of the resting seed into acid albumin or parapeptone , peptone , and crystalline amides .
6 .
The nitrogen travels from the cells of the seed to the growing points in the form of the latter bodies and not in that of peptone or other proteid .
VII .
" Preliminary Account of the Observations of the Eclipse of the Sun at Grenada in August , 1886 .
" By Captain Darwin , R.E. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received November 25 , 1886 .
The instruments allotted to me consisted of the coronagraph and the prismatic camera ; the two instruments being mounted on the same equatorial stand .
The prismatic camera is the same instrument which was used at the eclipses of 1882 and 1884 .
It consists of an ordinary photographic camera with a 60 ' prism placed in front of the lens .
The coronagraph consists of a reflecting telescope arranged for obtaining photographic records , and in which special precautions are taken to avoid internally reflected light .
This instrument was designed by Dr. Huggins , with the idea that it might be possible to obtain photographs of the corona in sunlight , that is at other times than at eclipses , and I was especially directed to test the practicability of this method .
The test could be applied in two ways :\#151 ; 1st .
By obtaining photographs shortly before or after the eclipse , and comparing any irregularity that might appear in the halo round the sun with any photographs of the corona taken during totality ; a similarity of form indicating that the corona had been photographed .
2nd .
To take photographs during partial eclipse .
Then if the light of the corona produces any effect on the plate , the limb of the moon should be visible against it .

