]\gt ; [ 75 ] .
The bsolute Direction and Intensit ?
J of the Earth 's ifIagnetic Force at Bombay , and its Secnlar and Annual Variations .
CHARLES IBERS , F.R.S. , Snperintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Received October 26 , \mdash ; Read January 25 , observations discussed in this paper were taken at the Observatory during he years 1867 to 1874 , and consist of observations of Dip , Declination , and Horizontal Intensity .
The instruments with which they were taken were a by BARROW , with -inch needles , and a Unifilar Magnetometer by ELLIOTT BROTIIERS , and were examined and approved at the Kew Obseryatory before sent out to India in the year 1867 .
Complete observations were taken ularly of the Dip and Horizontal Force twicc a yeek , of the Declination once a Data for \mdash ; These consist of the monthly means of the determinations of -tbsolute Dip from April 1867 to March 1874 , and the monthly means of the nations of Absolute Declination and Absolute Horizontal Intensity July to December 1873 .
I. Ilip .
2 .
For some unexplained leason , but which is suspected to be owing to a sudden deterioration in the axles of the dip-needles , the quality of the observations began in arch 1870 to be of a decidedly inferior order to that of the earliel observations ; and the efforts made to obtain new needles , of the high-class character of those first supplied with the dip-instrument , have hitherto been unsuccessful , possibly because some secret process in their production has died with the maker .
this reason the first three yeals ' observations will alone be treated in some detail , and the monthly and annual means of the last four years will be simply recorded .
Mean Values.\mdash ; The following Table shows the monthly mean values of the from April 1867 to March 1870:\mdash ; I. ABLE I. * I have taken the opportunity , which the lapse of time affords , of extendipg the number of years of observations treated in the paper from to .
Annual Mean Values and Secular Change.\mdash ; The annual mean values and yearly increments are as follows:\mdash ; TABLE II .
The two yearly differences agree in making the annual secular change of dip a steady increase of ; hence the mean dip for the three years , , will properly correspond to the mean epoch , which is the 1st October , 1868 .
4 .
Annual Variation.\mdash ; The average monthly values of dip for the period of three years , shown below , are affected by seculal change ; this is eliminated ; on the assumption that the change is from month to month , by subtracting from the values for the months May to March respectively once , twice , thrice , \amp ; c. the secular increase .
TABLE III .
The means of different groups of the monthly values thus cleared of secular change , but affected by the annual variation of dip , For April to September . . . . .
October to March Corrected for secular , , March , April , September , and October .
Maytoc August . . . . .
April lchange tpoch November .
to February . .
, which all agree in indicating an annual variation , in which the dip is a maximum when the sun is about its most northerly position in declination , a minimum when the sun is about its most southerly position , and having intermediate values when the sun is near the equator .
semiannual excess of dip when the sun has north declination above the mean value for the year is OF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIO FORCE AT BOMBAY .
5 .
Diurnal Jnequality at \mdash ; The difference between the morning afternoon observations is almost inappreciable , as will be seen by the following statement , which embraces every observation in 1867 and 1868 , finished before15 hours or commenced after 15 hours , for every inonth in which observations of both kinds are recorded ; the genel.al result is a slight excess of dip in the afternoon : \mdash ; TABLE IV .
\ldquo ; , , From this it may be inferred that the annual valiation of the diurnal inequality of dip for the mean observation houl ( or rather the mean variation for the molning and noon houls ) is also small , and may scarcely affect sensibly the annual variation of dip found above ; this latter variation must , however , be accepted subject to correction , if necessaly , when the annual variation of the diurnal inequality of dip has been well determined .
6 .
Probable Error.\mdash ; It will suffice to give an idea of the quality of the tions of dip if an account be heal given of the results of determinations , made early in 1869 , of the probable error of a single weekly determination ( being the mean of a pair of observations ) in three distinct periods in 1867 and semiannual inequality found , by a similar process to that descl.ibed above , from this mole limited body of observations was the same as that found aboye from three years ' observations , viz. an excess of in the dip from April to September above mean of the year , and an equal defect during the opposite half-year .
The annual secular.increase of dip found to be .
These values wel.e embodied in formulae .
correcting the observed weekly alues of dip to a common epoch as follows:\mdash ; From Apri129 to August 16 , 1867 , being the excess ( in months ) of the date over June 15 , 1867 ; From August 23 to September 27 , 1867 , ; From October 1 to December Sl , ; date ( in months ) From January 1 to March 31 , and from October 1 to December 31 , 1868 , being the excess of the date ( in months ) And from April 1 to Sept. 30 , o.ver July 15 , 1868 , \mdash ; in every case representing the dip at the common epoch of the period , and the observed dip .
The weekly values of dip being thus corrected , the differences were taken between them and the mean of all the corrected values in each period , and to these differences the method of least squares was applied to find the probable errors for the several periods ; these For Apri129 to August 16 , 1867 , the probable error , , August 23 to December 31 , 1867 , , , , January 1 to December 31 , 1868 , , , , The remaining observations , of 1869 and 1870 , being of about the same quality those of will have about the same probable error .
The unusual smallness of the probable error of a weekly determination since August 17 , 1867 , is attributable mainly , I think , to the comparative infrequency and moderate amount of disturbance at a low latitude station , but partly also to the extreme care that has been given to secure the perfect preservation of the axles of the needles ; the needles themselves also appear to be of excellent character .
7 .
Differences with different needles.\mdash ; The mean dip observed with needle No. 2 has , at different periods , exceeded that observed with needle No. 1 , as shown below:\mdash ; TABLE V. It is noticeable that the great change between the two first periods is contemporaneous with the introduction of the practice of remagnetizing the needle before commencing an observation .
8 .
Monthly Mean Values of the Dip from Aprit 1870 to lVIarch 1874.\mdash ; OF IHE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
On and after September 21 , 1871 , the place of observation was changed from the basement of the Electrometel Towet to the top room of the same building , the former height above the ground having been 6 feet and the present height being 38 feet .
9 .
Mean Values of the Dip and Annual Increase of Dip for seven ears.\mdash ; TABLE VII .
II .
Peclination .
10 .
Month \mdash ; In Table VIII..are collected the monthly means of the values of absolute declination , as observed July 1867 to Deccmber 1873 , and the corresponding mean readings of the large declination netometer ; and in Table IX .
are shown the same mean values of declination , ected f the difference between the corresponding mean readings of the large declination netometer and the mean readings of that instrument ( also given with the same Table ) for the respective months , the corrected values thus obtained showing the mean declination of the several months .
The adopted value of a unit of the scale of the large declination netometer is , increasing readings- denoting increasing easterly declination .
TABLE VIII .
TABLE IX .
11 .
Mean Values and Secular Change.\mdash ; Table X. shows the Absolute Declination , both as observed and colrected as in Table IX .
, for each year from1867 to and also the respective annual increments of declination and the mean annual increment for the period of six and a half years .
TABLE X. The values 48 ' 8and 49 ' of absolute easterly declination , as observed and as corrected , correspond to the mean epoch October 1 , 1870 ; the annual increase of decli- .
nation or diffel.s by a scarcely appreciable amount , whether it is derived directly from the observations or from the observations corrected .
In calculating the means only half weight has been given to the values in brackets , which are derived from only half as many observations as the other values .
12 .
Annual Variation.\mdash ; The means for the period of six and a half years of easterly declination in each month are shown below , both as observed and corrected ; the corOF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
rections for secular change to leduce the values for each month to the same epoch ( October 1 , 1870 ) , at the rate of per month , are also shown , as are likewise the mean monthly values cleared of secular change and the monthly excesses above the mean of the year .
TABLE XI.\mdash ; Monthly Mean Values of Absolute Declination , as observed .
TABLE XII.\mdash ; Monthly lsIean Values of Absolute Declination , reduced to Mean Monthly Reading of the large ation Mnetometer .
The two sets of monthly differences represent the annual variation of declination , first , as affected by the annual variation of the diurnal inequality at the usual observation hour , and , secondly , after the elimination of that affection ; it is seen at a glance that the effect of the diurnal inequality is to alter both the character and range of the apparent annual variation , raising the range from to and implessing upon the variation high values .
the winter and low values .
the summel months\mdash ; effects quite consistent with the known character of the annual variation of diulnal inequality .
The true ( corrected ) annual variation has a systematic character , with double oscillation in the period , showing maxima near the times of the equinoxes , and minima about the times of the solstices .
13 .
That the Declination is greater near the equinoxes than near the solstices may also be shown without assuming a value for the annual secular ; for if change be uniform the means for the months January and December , February and November , \amp ; c. .
June and July , will all correspond to the same epoch and bc directly comparable ; these means are as follows:\mdash ; January and December 49 ' February and November 49 33 March and October April and September 49 40 May and August 49 32 June and July 49 22 the large values occurring in the middle of the column near the time of the equinoxes .
The mean for the months April to September is 49 ' 31 and that for the months January to March and October to December 49 ' 33 showing a scarcely appreciable amount of semiannual inequality .
14 .
Probable Error.\mdash ; The probable error of a single determination of Absolute Declination has been calculated separately for each of the years 1868 to 1870 .
numbers of observations made in those years are 53 , 53 , and 57 respectively , and each one was reduced to the constant reading of the lal.ge Declination netometer .
If there was no error of observation , and if the large Declination Magnetometer was perfect , these reduced values ought all to be alike , and the degree of accordance existing amongst them will indicate the extent to which these conditions are fulfilled .
The differences being taken for each year between each individual reduced value of the Declination and the means of all the values for that year , the probable error of a single determination was found these diffel.ences by the usual method ( of least squares ) to be , and for the years 1868 , 1869 , and 1870 respectively ; the probable error of the annual means to be , and respectively .
III .
Horizontal Force .
15 .
Values.\mdash ; In Table XIII .
are collected the mean monthly values , as observed , of the Horizontal Force for the period from July 1867 to Decembel .
1873 , and the corresponding monthly mean leadings of the large HorizoIital-force Magnetometer , colrected to the constant temperature FAHR. In correcting the magnetometer readings has been adop as the decrease of reading produced by an increase of 1o of temperature .
TABLE XIII .
OF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
Table XIV .
corresponds with Table XIII .
, except that the mean monthly readings deduced from all the hourly observations of the large Horizontal-force Magnetometer given instead of those which correspond to the times of the absolute obselvations ; and the values of Horizontal Force are corrected for the difference between the sets of mean monthly readings , so as to represent the values of the mean Horizontal Force for the several months .
The scale-coefficient adopted for the large Horizontalfol.ce netometer is , or for an increase of unity in the -leadin TABLE XIV .
During part of the month of January 1873 the large Magnetometer was under readjustment , and the correction had to be deduced partly from its leadings before readjustment , and partly from of the Horizontal-force Magnetograph taken at the time of the absolute observations .
From and aftel Februaly 1873 the monthly mean readings of the Magnetometer were obtained by subtracting from the monthly mean for the five civil hours 6 , 10 , 14 , , and 22 , the excess , expressed in scale-readings , of the mean force at those hours in the years 1846 to 1872 above the mean force for the twenty-four hours in the same .
Annual Mean Values and Secular Change.\mdash ; The mean value of the IIorizontal Force for the epoch Octoberl , 1870 , is or , according as the observations uncorrected or corrected to the mean of the several months .
The following Table shows the mean values , uncorrected and corrected , of the Horizontal Force in each year or half-year from 1867 to 1873 , and the corresponding annual increments of Horizontal Force TABLE The annual increments within brackets , being derived from half-yearly means , are allowed only half the weight of the othels .
The mean secular change of Horizontal Force is thus found to be a yearly increase from the uncorrected observations , or 0045 from the corrected observations .
17 .
Iliurnal Inequality at different heights above the ground.\mdash ; In Table XVI .
comparison is drawn between the diurnal inequalities of Horizontal Force at corresponding hours , shown by the absolute observations and by the large Horizontal-force Magnetometer .
The temperature- and scale-coefficients used in calculating the numbers in the last column from those in columns 6 to 9 have been already given .
The general result ( with which twenty-one half-yearly differences are in agreement , and four of contrary import ) is that the diurnal variation of Horizontal Force is , between the hours in question , less in the top room of the Electrometer Tower , at a height of 38 feet above the ground , where the absolute observations were taken , than it is height of 6 feet , where the large -force Magnetometer is placed ; and on the it is about one fifth less .
The average time of the first observation is and that of the second observation ; and during this interval , which is generally about the same in extent and has nearly the same limits , the mean for the whole year of the regular daily diminution of force is of the mean range for the year of the diurnal variation of force , so that we are dealing with alarge fraction ( more than a third ) of the whole diurnal movement .
The maximum Horizontal Force of the day occuls about half an hour before the middle of the first observation .
The supposition that most readily suggests itself in explanation of a result of this nature is , that , being derived from observations with uments of different construction , it is due to error of observation in the one case , or to error in the scale-coefficient or temperature-coefficient employed in the other .
Against the supposition that it is due to error of observation with the Unifilar Magnetometer , it may be urged , first , that it recurs in twenty-one out of twenty-five halfOF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
yearly comparisons ; and secondly , that the probable error of a single weekly determination ( that is , of the mean of the first and second observation ) being ( see paragraph 19 ) , that of the mean difference , for six and a half years , between the first and second observations will be less than , quantity which is less than half the nitude of the difference that the error is supposed to explain .
And if it were due to erroneous allowance for temperature of the large Horizontal-force Magnetometer , it ought to be small when the diurnal range of temperature is small , and large when the range is large ; whilst , in fact , the difference in question is only .
in the half-year October to March , when the range of temperature is large , and is 0016 in the half-year April to September , when the l.ange of tempera- ture is small .
At the same time the range of the diurnal variation of Horizontal Force is nearly the same throughout the year , its value for the half-year October to March being a fourteenth greater than for the half-year April to September , and its meanvalue for the year , as shown by the large -force Magnetometer , is 00166 of the whole force .
It remains , therefore , if the result be an instrumental one , that the scale- coefficient adopted for the large Magnetometer must be supposed to be one fourth of itself in excess of the truth : this the writer cannot think possible , and he hopes soon to have the opportunity of submitting to the judgment of the Royal Society evidence ( in connexion with a general discussion of the observations with this instrument ) which will completely set aside such a supposition .
If the result be admitted as a true magnetic phenomenon , it suggests the attribution of a very considerable magnetic influence to the state of the medium intervenin between the upper and lower places of observation , in such a way that when the air is of equable temperature and almost uniformly moist throughout , the variations of force are nearly alike above and below , whilst in the dry months of the year there is a very considerable diminution of daily change of force with increase of height .
The writer eadily admits that such attribution should not rest upon a result of observations taken at a single station only .
18 .
Annual Variation.\mdash ; In Table XVII .
are shown the means for each month , in the period of six and a half years , of the values of Horizontal Force , corrected to the mean monthly reading of the large Horizontal-force Magnetometer ; also the corrections for secular change , at the rate per year , to reduce those means to the common epoch , October 1 , 1870 , and the same means cleared of secular variation ; and , further , the excess of each of the corrected monthly values above the mean value for the year , the last series of numbers representing the annual variation of Horizontal orce .
OF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
The annual valiation exhibits a semiannual inequality in which the horizontal force during the months March to August , 0011 greater than the mean of the year , and during the months September to February less .
The quarterly means that ve the greatest difference are as follows:\mdash ; February to April 0000 May to July . . .
to October November to January Without applying any corrections for secular change , the means of the values of Horizontal Force in Table XVII .
, for January and December , February and November , \amp ; c. , will all correspond to the same epoch , October 1 , 1870 .
Such means are compared below both for the uncorrected observations and for the observations corrected to the mean of each month .
ABLE XVIJI .
Both sets of numbers indicate a small semiannual inequality , in which the force is about a four-thousandth of itself greater in the half-year April to September than in half-year October to March ; and the four-monthly means show that the force passes through its mean value in the months March , April , September , and October nearest to the equinoxes ; and thence , of necessity , the maximum occurs in the months May to August , about the summer solstice , and the imum in the months Noyember to February , about the winter solstice .
The difference of range of the four-monthly means , uncorrected and corrected , is doubtless a consequence of the uncorrected values having reference to the mean lnterval from to 14h , whilst the corrected values have reference to the mean of the twenty-four hours .
Whilst , however , recording this result as that which the absolute observations are capable of yielding , the writer does not claim for it any great confidence ; for the probable error of an observation is considerably greater than the monthly differenceswhich have been obtained as representing the annual variation ; and consequently it is only by combining together the observations of a number of years that the influence of errors of observation can be expected to be practically eliminated , and half the period of six and a half years seems not to be sufficient for this purpose ; for when the observations are separated into two groups ( of three and a half years and three years ) the annual variations yielded are of totally different character .
19 .
Probable Error.\mdash ; The probable error of a single weekly determination of Absolute Horizontal Force has been computed separately for July to December 1867 and for the year 1868 .
This has been done independently from all the complete observations except those of July 2 to 27 , 1867 , and for all , with the further exception of those of August 21 , 1867 , and April 8 and 15 and August 19 , 1868 , which give results that are evidently erroneous , far beyond the range of observational error .
The observations were all reduced to the constant reading , at temperature , of the large Horizontalforce Magnetometer , allowance being further made for the loss of strength of the magnet of that instrument ; and the differences being then taken between each corrected determination and the mean of all , the probable errors were calculated from these differences by the method of least squares .
The late at which allowance was made for the loss of strength of the magnet was of the whole per annum ( see ' Introduction to Bombay Observations , ' 1864 , page ) .
The probable errors found are as follows:\mdash ; TABLE XIX .
The remaining observations of 1869 to 1873 being of about the same quality as those of 1868 , will have about the same probable error .
The maximum probable error.(that of the moment of inertia of the vibration-magnet ) OF IHE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FORCE AT BOMBAY .
S9 of the constants used in reductions of the Horizontal-force observations has about the same effect as the smallest of the above determinations , which have reference to observational errors only .
Iy .
Total Force .
20 .
With the following data : Dip for epoch 1st October , 1868 . . . .
Secular change of Dip per annum . . . . . .
Semiannual inequality of excess from April to September above the mean of the year . . .
Horizontal Force for epoch 1st October , 1870 . . .
Secular change of Horizontal Force per annum Semiannual Jality of Horizontal Force : excess from April to September above the mean of the year . . . . .
We find Dip for epoch 1st January , Horizontal Force for epoch 1st January , And by the formula , where epresents the Total Force , X the Horizontal Force , and the Total Force for epoch 1st January , . . . .
And by the formula Secular change of Total Force per annum . . .
Semiannual inequality of Total Force : excess from April to September over mean of the year 21 .
Annual Variation.\mdash ; In the almual variation of Force , } the formula last yiven from those of Dip and Horizontal Fol.cc in Tables III .
and XVII .
, the monthly excesses above the yearly mean are , for January to December respectively , ollows : ; and the quartelly means which ve the \mdash ; February to April , ; May to July , to ) ; and November to January , V. Absolute Magnetical Results .
Collected together .
TABLE

