6 .
" Investigations into the Structure and Development of the Scales and Bones of Fishes .
" By W. C. Williamson , Esq. Communicated by W. B. Carpenter , M.D. , F.R.S. In this memoir the author first points out the discrepancies that exist between the opinions of M. Mandl and M. Agassiz respecting the structure and growth of cycloid and ctenoid scales ; and after referring to the peculiar views entertained by each of these ichthyologists , he enters upon the investigation of a number of examples , including the Carp , Perch , Gray Mullet , Pike , Salmon , and especially the large scale of an unknown fish from the Bay of Dulse on the western coast of Mexico .
The results of this inquiry lead the author to conclusions which differ considerably from those of both M. Agassiz and IM .
Mandl .
He points out the existence of three distinct vertically-disposed structures in each of these scales ; a lower one , consisting of miembranous laminas ; a middle calcareous one , having a very peculiar structure and growth ; and an upper one , also calcareous , but very distinct from the last , and which is variously disposed in different scales .
In all it contributes the peculiar cycloid and other markings which ornament their surfaces ; whilst in etenoid scales , isolated portions of it appear to form the characteristic teeth which project from their posterior margins .
The author then developes in succession the peculiar and beautiful structures seen in the scales of Dactylopterus , Balistes , Loricaria , and various forms belonging to the Ostraciant group .
Whilst these examples exhibit singular diversities of structure , they appear to be all modified forms of one common type .
From this branch of the inquiry the author proceeds to examine the other calcareous tissues existing in fishes , commencing with the endo-skeletons of the Sharks and Rays ( Plagiostomes ) .
He shows that the entire osseous elements of these vertebrates are constructed of a peculiar form of bone , which he designates " chondriform , " being wholly developed either within the soft tissues of true cartilage , or of a modified form of cartilage .
Fossil remains , having the same structure , have beet found in the lias at Lyme Regis and in the coal-measures near Manchester and Leeds .
He then examines in succession a number of the bomnes of the Commuon Pike , and shows that whilst all the osseous elements of these skeletons are developed in connexion with a cartilaginous matrix , their tissues are of two kinds , which remain permanently distinct .
One of these is of the same chondriform character as that seen in the Plagiostomes , being developed in the interior of the cartilage ; the other , which is produced either at the outer surface of the cartilage or in cavities left by the absorption of the latter tissue , the author terms " membraniform , " being formed within the lamellae of a fibrous membrane , of which the primary origin is doubtful .
The peculiar relations which these various structures bear to one another in the different stages of growth are explained .
The same process of inquiry is applied to many of the bones of the Perch , Cod , Haddock , Sharpnosed Eel , Salmoni , &amp;c. , in each of which peculiarities exist .
In the latter example especially the entire skeleton consists of a modified form of chondriform bone , of which it exhibits two kinds .
One of these resembles that of the Pike and other examples , both in its aspect and in the situations in which it occurs .
The second form is more peculiar ; whilst the way in which its growth is accomplished closely resembles that of imembraniform bones produced by the calcification of fibrous periosteal membranes , its internal structure shows that it is of the chondriform type , being developed in a thick leathery periosteum of fibro-cartilage , and which appears to be continuous with the true cartilage wherever the two come into contact .
It is not possible to give any definite idea of the detailed observations contained in a memoir of which so large a portion is devoted to minute investigation .
The inferences which the author deduces from his facts are given in connexion with each of the several topics discussed ; and in the concluding portion of the memoir he points out the bearing which they have upon some general questions in physiology .
A close resemblance is shown to exist between the processes of calcification , as carried on in the fibrous tissues of fish-scales , in cartilages and in fibro-cartilages , in all of which the phenomena closely correspond ; and the author thinks that the bones and teeth of mammals , in which the process is far less obvious than in these ichthyal structures , may be calcified in a similar way .
The important bearing of the membraniform kosmine structures ( which closely resemble the different varieties of dentine ) upon the generally received hypothesis respecting the growth of teeth is also discussed ; and the author thinks there are such sufficient reasons for doubting the correctness of that hypothesis , as to render a review of the evidence upon which it is based very desirable .
The peculiar modifications which the homologues of the Haversian canals of anthropotomists present amongst different groups of fishes are pointed out , as well as the very near affinity which exists between bone , dentine , ganoin , kosmine , enamel ; and the probability of a closer relationship between cartilage , fibro-cartilage and fibrous periosteum , is also suggested as a subject deserving further investigation .
The field opened out to the physiologist and the microscopist in the department of ichthyology is almost boundless , being comparatively unexplored , whilst it promises a rich harvest to those who labour in it .

