]\gt ; XVI .
of ciples to II .
J. J. THOMSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow oCollege , Professor of mental Physics in the iversity of Received March 31 , \mdash ; Read April 2 , 1887 .
S 1 .
THE two laws of Thermodynamics have proved by far the most powerful , indeed almost the only , means we possess of connecting the in one branch of Physics with those in another .
Though the two laws are usually grouped together , it should not be forgotten that they differ essentially in character .
The First Law is a direct application to Physics of one of the most important dynamical principles , that of the Conservation of Energy ; while the Second Law , which the purpose of connecting various physical phenomena even more important than the first , is not , strictly speaking , a dynamical principle at all , since its statement inyolves a reference to quantities which never occur abstract Dynamics .
CLAUSIUS and Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , the two physicists to whom the Second Law owes its importance , have connected it with other principles which seem more axiomatic .
Thus CLAUSIUS bases the Second Law on the principle that " " heat cannot itself pass from a colder to a hotter body In this statement too much depends upon the meaning to be attached to the words " " by itself\ldquo ; for it to be regarded as axiomatic , and the following extract from CLAU$1US seems to show that in his view it is the statement of a new physical pl.inciple , and not the necessary consequence of previously recognised ones .
He says ( ' Mechanical Theory of Heat , ' English translation , by W. R. BROWNE , p. 342 ) , " " If , however complicated the processes may be , it is maintained that without some other permanent change , which may be looked upon as a compensation , heat can ever pass from a colder to a hotter body , it would seem that this principle ought not to be treated as one altogether self-evident , but rather newly propounded fundamental principle on whose acceptance or non-acceptance the validity of the proof depends Again Sir WILLIAM THOMSON has connected the Second Law with the principle that " " it is impossible , by means of inanimate material agency , to derive mechanlcal effect from any portion of matter by cooling it below the temperature of the coldest of the surrounding objects To follow out the connection between prlnciple and the Second Law , it is convenient to divide the energy of a body into two kinds , the one kind depending upon circumstances over which we have complete control , the other .
s7 depending on circumstances which we cannot completely control .
Take as an eXample possessed by a ) : part of the energy depends upon the extensionl of the spring ; we have complete control over this , but another part of the energy depends upon the motion of the molecules of spring , and , although we have some control over the average motion of all the molecules , we have none over the motion of individual lnolecules .
Let us for the moment call the energy of the first kind " " controllable energy that of the second\ldquo ; intrinsic energy We may look on an engine of converting intrinsic into controllable energy .
Then , if we follow ) connection between the axiom and the principle that efficiency of a perfectly eversible engine is a maximum ( which we may take as equivalent to the Second ) , we shall see that if the axiom is to coyer all the cases to which the Second has been applied it must be equivalent to statement that it is impossible to derive effect by abstracting intrinsic energy from the refrigerator .
Now the intrinsic consists , in addition to sensible heat , of what CLAUSIUS calls the internal of the body , that is , energy depending upon the arrangemeI ) of the , and , it be , also upon their motion .
If we consider the various forms which this intrinsic energy take , the statement it is impossible to derive effect by abstracting intrinsic energy from the refrigerator would seem to be hardly lore axiomatic than the Second Law itself The Second Law of Thermodynamics , like the ) Gravitation , seems then to be proved rather by the truth of its consequences than by any priori considerations .
For this , other reasons , I have thought it might perhaps be interesting to deduce by the use of purely dynamical principles many results which are usually obtained by the aid of the Second Law of Thermodynamics , as well as some others which , so .
a , s I know , have luot previously been obtained .
This I have endeavoured to do in the following paper , as I did in one previously published under the same title in the ' Transactions , ' 1885 , Part 1 .
In the first paper I considered the relation veen thermal , elastic , magnetic phenomena , but did not consider any enomena in which chemical quasi-chemical processes were concerned , such as tion , eyaporation , solution , chemical combination : or any effects which are not reversible , such as those produced by the electric resistance of metals and electrolytes .
In this paper I shall endeavour to apply the same or analogous principles to the phenomena mentioned above , as well as to a additional phenomena of the kind discussed in the first paper .
Though the dynamical method is open to the objection that the quantities made use of are those which occur in abstract Dynamics , such as mass , velocity , energy , and so require further knowledge before we can connect them with such things as temperature , electric current , resistance , and so on\mdash ; a knowledge which , in many cases , we do not , in the Second Law , the results are expressed in terms of quantities which can be readily measured ; still it has advantages which make it worthy of consideration .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
In the first place , there is the mental satisfaction to be got by explaining things on dynamical principles ; and , again , there is the certainty that the method is capable of completely solving the question ( whether we can make it do so is another matter ) , while we have no inty that all possible information is given by the two of Thermodynamics , or that some unknown third might not enable us to alTive at results beyond the powers of the first and second .
S2 .
The researches of CLAUSIUS , SZILY , and BOLTZMANN have shown the Second Law of mics is closely connected with the principle of Lcast Action , and it might therefore be thought that the Second Law was only a more convenient way of stating this principle , so that no advantage could be gained by the direct use of dynamical .
In the investigations on the connection between the Second Law and the principle of Least Action there are , as I shall endea your to show later on , good many assumptions implicitly made , so that it seems to be much preferable to proceed , if possible , in any special case by the direct use of dynamical principles .
Again , there can , I think , be no question that the principle of Least Action and the Second Law of Thermodynamics are not equivalent ; for , in the first place , as is well known ( see ROUTH'S 'Advanced Rigid Dynamics , ' p. 257 ) , the principle of Least Action includes that of the Conservation of Energy , so that , if the Second Law of Thermodynamics included all that could be got from the principle of Least Action , it ought to include the First Law as a particular case .
Again , in the most general case , the principle of Least Action will for a system fixed by coordinates give equations ; but the Second Law of Thermodynamics , which asserts that a certain function is a perfect , would , in the most general case , give rise to equations , as that is the number of conditions to be satisfied if is a perfect differential .
S3 .
The dynamical methods we shall nlost frequently use in the following paper are the Hamiltonian principles expressed by the equations 2S S , . . . . .
( 1 ) , . . . . .
( 2 ) where and V are respectively the kinetic and potential energies of a system , typical coordinate helping to fix the configuration of the system , and the time .
The first of these equations has been used to the connection between the principle of Least Action which it expresses and the Law of Thelmodynamics ; it will be convenient to begin by considering the inyestigations which have on this connection .
The proof usually given is as follows ( see ROUTH'S 'Advanced Rigid Dynamics , ' p. Let us suppose that no extel.nal work is done by the system ; then\mdash ; @ , . . .
( 3 ) where SQ is a small quantity of work supplied to the system .
The quantity S occurs on the right-hand side of equation ( 1 ) : let us now consider the term , which also occurs on the same side of the equation .
If the motion be oscillatory , and a period of complete recurrence ; Sq will have the same value at the lower as it has at the upper limit of the integral , and therefore the difference of the values will vanish .
The case when the motion is oscillatory is not , however , the only , nor indeed the most important , case in which this term may be neglected .
Let us suppose that the system consists of a great number of secondary systems , or , as they generally called , molecules , and that the motion of these molecules is in every variety of phase ; then the term , the sum being taken for all the molecules , will be small , and will not increase indefinitely with the time , but will continually fluctuate within narrow limits .
This is evidently true if we confine our attention to those coordinates which fix the confgoration of the molecule relatively to its centre of gravity ; and , if we remember that the motion of the centre of gravity of the molecules is by collision with other molecules and with the sides of the vessel which contain them continually being reversed , we can see that the above statement remains true even when coordinates fixing the position of the centres of gravity of the molecules are .
Thus , if the time over which we integrate is long enough , we may neglect the term in comparison with the other terms which occur in equation ( 1 ) , as these terms increase indefinitely with the time , so that in this case , even though the motion is not entirely periodic , equation ( 1 ) may be written\mdash ; @Q , or @ , ( 4 ) where is the mean kinetic energy .
This equation may be written\mdash ; 2S , . . . . .
( 5 ) so that is a perfect differential .
One of the ways of stating the Second Law of Thermodynamics is that SQ/ is a perfect differential , being the absolute temperature ; thus , if is a constant DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
multiple of the mean kinetic energy , the Second Law .
of Thermodynamics can be deduced from the principle of Least Action .
Thus even in the simplest case , when the system does no external , we require the additional assumption that the absolute temperature is proportional to the mean kinetic energy .
Now , in the only case in which the theory has been completely worked out , that of the kinetic theory of gases , the absolute temperature is measured , not by the total kinetic energy directly , but by the mean kinetic energy due to the translatory motion of the centres of gravity of the molecules .
This is shown by the way in which BOyLE'S Law is deduced from the kinetic theory .
If the temperature depended upon the vibratory energy , we could not ] the relation between pressure , density , and temperature is practically the same for all gases , while the ratio of the vibratory energy to the translatory energy varies from an exceedingly small fraction in the case of mercury vapour to more than half in the case of hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen .
Thus in the case of gases we have strong reasolB for supposing that the is measured by the mean translatory energy , the mean being taken for all the molecules .
In the case of solids and liquids this is not so clear , but eyen here there seem to be reasons for believing that the temperature is measured by the mean of some particular kind of energy rather than by the mean total kinetic energy .
From the continuity of the solid , liquid , and gaseous states of matter we should expect the temperature to depend upon the kinetic energy in the solid or liquid as well as in the gaseous state .
But , if in the case of a solid the temperature were measured by the mean total kinetic energy and not by the mean of some special kind of energy , then , if we have a gas and a solid at the same temperature , the mean total kinetic energy of the gas will be greater than that of the solid , for by our supposition the mean translatory energy of molecules of the gas equals the mean total kinetic energy of the molecules of the solid .
Now , the specific heat of water in the solid state is about the same as that of the same body when in the gaseous state , while for some substances it is double , as it would be if the kinetic energy in the solid state were equal to that in the gaseous , and if , as we should expect priori , the work supplied to a solid is equally divided between the kinetic and potential energies .
For this reason , we conclude that the mean kinetic energy of the molecules of a solid is not less than the , mean kinetic energy of the molecules of a gas at the same temperature ; and hence , that the temperature in the solid state is measured by the mean of some particular kind of energy .
It would seem most probable that this particular kind would be the energy due to the translatory motion of the molecules ; and that the temperature measured by the mean energy due to the translatory motion of the molecules the solid and liquid as well as in the gaseous states .
In the simple case we are considering , we have seen that it follows from the principle of Least Action that is a perfect diflerential .
If this is identical with the Second Law of Thermodynamics , then must either be a constant multiple of , the absolute temperature , or must be a function of 3 .
is given by the equation .
Making the first supposition , and remembering that the absolute temperature measures the mean energy due to the translatory motion of the molecules , we see that it is equivalent to supposing that the mean total kinetic energy of the molecules is a constant multiple of their mean translatory energy .
This is the assumption which was originally made by CLAUSIUS , and we see that it must be made if we are to derive the Second Law of Thermodynamics from inciple of Least Action .
BOLTZMANN , in his celebrated investigation of the distribution of energy among the lnolecules of a gas , each molecule of which possesses degrees of freedom , arrives at a much more definite result .
According to this investigation the mean kinetic energy corresponding to each degree of freedom is the same , so that the mean kinetic energy due to the translatory motion of the centres of gravity of the molecules is only of the mean total kinetic energy of the molecules .
The proof of this given by the author seems to me to be open to grave objection , and the results to which it leads have certainly not been reconciled with the properties possessed by actual gases .
According to this theorem , the result is the same , whatever be the constitution of the molecule , and whatever the forces exerted by one molecule on another when they come so close together as to be within the range of each other 's action .
BOLTZMANN shows that , if the number of molecules which have the coordinates , . .
and the corresponding momenta , . . .
between the limits , . .
, . . .
, is where and are constants , and and the kinetic and potential energies of such a molecule ; then the number of such molecules will remain constant , as in a given time as many molecules pass out of that state as enter it .
Thus , if this distribution is ever established , it will be a steady distribution , i.e. , the state of the gas will not change , To prove the theorem we have quoted above , BOLTZMANN integrates this expression , that each velocity may have all values from plus infinity to minus infinity .
It seems to me , however , that this assumption is not legitimate , and that before we can fix the limits of the velocity we must know the nature of the molecule and the forces between two molecules when they come within the sphere of each other 's action .
We can easily imagine cases in which the assumption is not true .
Take , for example , the case of two bodies describing orbits about their centre of gravity under each other 's attraction .
If the relative velocity of the bodies exceeds a certain value , which depends upon the distance between them and the law of attraction , the two bodies will not remain together , but will separate until they are finally at an infinite distance .
Thus , if the two bodies represent the atoms in a * BOLTZMANN , 'Sitzungsberichte der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften , vol. 63 ( Abth .
2 ) , Wien , 1871 .
See also .
' Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society , ' vol. 12 , 1879 .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOM ] molecule , the molecule will be split up when the relative velocity of the atom exceeds a certain value ; so that in this case the limits of the relative velocity would be functions of the coordinates fixing the position of the atoms , and not plus infinity , as in BOLTZMANN'S investigation .
We can , moreover , imagine a of molecule for which we can proye that the theorem itself is not true .
We know that many dynamical theorems have their most elegant applications to systems of electric currents flowing through neighbouring circuits , and that if any dynamical theorem is true at all it must be true when interpreted in an electrical sense as well as in the mechanical one .
This is eyident , we can apply the same method , that of LAGRANGE'S equations , to both the electrical and mechanical problems .
Thus BOLTZMANN'S theorem , if it is true at all , must be true when some of the coordinates fixing the configuration of the molecule are coordinates which fix the distribution of electric currents flowing through circuits attached to the molecule .
Let us suppose that these coordinates , which we will call , . .
fix curTents flowing through perfectly conducting circuits in parallel planes in the molecule , the circuits being so close together that the magnetic force due to the currents round the other molecules , or to any other external source , may be taken as const , ant over the circuits .
The kinetic energy due to the currents , . . .
circulating through these conductors is of the form Let , be the " " principal\ldquo ; coordinates , fixing the same configuration as that fixed by , . .
; then , when the kinebic energy is expressed in terms of these coordinates , it is of the form The electrical equations rate of diminution in the number of lin es of force passing through the circuit corresponding to he same thing for the circuit Now , since all the circuits are parallel , and so close together that.the magnetic force may be considered constant over them , the number of lines of force passing through will be in a constant ratio to the number passing through .
Let this ratio be ; then , or , if and are each initially Now , the kinetic energy corresponding to is ; that corresponding to is The ratio of these is ; this is a quantity depending only on the configuration of the circuits , and , if the molecules are geometrically similar , will be the same for each molecule ; thus the ratio of the mean kinetic energy corresponding to to that corresponding to is , and , by properly choosing the configuration of the circuits , this quantity may be made to any positive value we please , whereas , if BOLTZMANN'S theorem were true , the ratio ought always to be equal to unity .
Hence we conclude that BOLTZMANN'S theorem is not true .
It ought to be noticed that in this case the ratio is constant , though not unity , and this is all that is assumed by CLAUSIUS .
The consideration of the collision of two vortex rings , according to the vortex ring theory of gases , would , I think , lead us to the conclusion that the energy corresponding to each mode of vibration is , when the gas is in a steady state , a function of the mean translatory energy of the molecules of the gas , the function being of such a kind that , the higher the mode of vibration , the smaller the ratio of the corresponding energy to the mean translatory energy .
The application of the Second Law to the case we have just discussed , which is the one investigated by SZILY and CLAUSIUS , does not include the application to the case ( almost the only one of importance in the applications of the Second Law ) when the system absorbs or expends work when heat is communicated to it .
It would not include , for example , the case when heat is applied to a gas at constant pressure .
Let , . .
be the external forces of type , respectively , acting on the system , and let the points of application of these forces move through Sp 1 , Then , if SQ be the quantity of undirected energy supplied to the system , that is , energy that is not supplied by moving the system against definite external forces , and SV the increments in the kinetic and potential energies of the system , @ . . .
( 6 ) Thus , for example , in the case of a gas contained in a cylinder with a movable piston , SQ Sx , where is the total pressure on the piston , and the distance of the piston from the bottotn of the cylinder .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO In considering this case it will be convenient to divide the kinetic energy into two parts , one part , which we shall denote by , depending on the velocities of coordinates fixing the position of the ; the other , which we shall denote by , depending on the velocities of coordinates of the type , which we have completely under our control .
The coordinates fixing the configuration of the system with respect to strain , electrification , magnetisation , \amp ; c. , are coordinates of this dass .
will be a quadratic function of the velocities of the coordinates , since the total kinetic energy of the system cannot involve the product of the velocity of a 2 ' coordinate with that of one fixing the position of a molecule ; otherwise the kinetic energy of the system would be altered by reversing the motion of all the molecules .
We have , by LAGRANGE'S equation , ; now and by definition we have also , by the Conservation of Energy , @Q @ ; . . . .
now , ( 7 ) since is a homogeneous quadratic function of the velocities of the " " \ldquo ; coordinates , and therefore ; ( 8 ) subtracting ( 7 ) from ( 8 ) , we have \mdash ; @ If the change in the configuration is that which actually takes place , then we have so that @ , *This portion within brackets re-written October 17 , 1887 .
so that equation ( 6 ) becomes S @ ; substituting for from ( 5 ) , we have constant .
( 9 ) Now , if enters into the expression for the kinetic energy due to the motion of the molecules of the body , it must enter as a factor into all the terms expressing this energy , otherwise the phenomenon symbolised by would be more affected by the motion of particular molecules than by that of others .
Thus must be of the form when does not involve Thus and therefore , by ( 9 ) , SQ2 so that .
( 10 ) Since is assumed to be proportional to the absolute temperature , and since the first two terms on the right-hand side of the equation are perfect differentials , we see that , in order that SQ/ should be a perfect differential , must be one too .
The state of the body is determined if we knoW the value of the coordinates and the temperature , so that , when is constant , may be written as @ , where is very large when the temperature is near the melting or the boiling points of the substance .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
Making this substitution for SV in equation ( 10 ) , we have S S. ( 11 ) Now let us suppose that only one coordinate , , changes , and that just as much heat is supplied or absorbed as is sufficient to preyent the temperature from ) ' ; t , hen , since the temperature is constant , and S both vanish , and we have @ Now , if be the force which is required to keep constant when the system is in a steady state , Now , since and do not explicitly involve , and since is proportional to , we have where , in finding , is the only quantity which is supposed to vary .
Thus equation ( 11 ) becomes @ .
( 12 ) .
This result can be obtained from the Second Law of Thermodynamics ; it was so obtained by VON HELMHOLTZ , and applied by him to the case of the heat produced in the voltaic cell his paper " " Die Therlnodynamik chemischer Vorgange\ldquo ; Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen , .
S 4 .
It will be seen from the preceding work that the Second Law of Thermodynamics cannot be deduced from the principle of Least Action , less we know a good deal about the distribution of energy among the molecules , and unless make in addition a good many assumptions .
For this reason , in discussing { he applications of Dynamics to Physics , I prefer to apply the principle of Least Action directly to the various problems , and not to start from the Second Law as intermediate stage .
In the rest of the paper I shall endeavour to show how this can be done .
CCLXXXVIT .
of Principles to Phenomena which are in State .
S5 .
The most convenient principle for this purpose is the Hamiltonian one , to which , if be constant , ' where is one of the coordinates helping to fix the configuration of the system , and the Lagrangian function or ROUTH'S modification of it , according as it is or is not expressed entirely in terms of the velocities of the coordinates .
If and if be expressed in terms of , and the coordinates at the times and , then , if be a coordinate at the time , we see from equation that and , by LAGRANGE'S equation , ; hence we see that the momentum corresponding to any coordinate and the rate of change of the momentum can both be expressed as the differential coefficients of functions with respect to that coordinate .
We shall now proceed to show that for Steady Motion where is the mean value of , and where S is to be interpreted in the following way .
All , or nearly all , the systems we shall have to deal with are those which consist of a large number of molecules , and we may conveniently for our purpose divide the coordinates , fixing the configuration of such a system into two kinds : Molar coordinates , which fix the configuration of the system as a whole , and whose value we may by various physical processes alter at our pleasure .
When we say that the system is in a steady state , all that we mean is that the configuration as fixed the molar coordinates is steady .
( b ) Molecular coordinates , which fix the position of individual molecules .
The values of these coordinates are quite beyond our control .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
Now , if we consider the coordinates , we shall see that they are of two kinds : the first kind , which I called in my first kinosthenic , only enter into the expressions for the energy through their differential coefficients , do not occur explicitly themselves ; the ates of the second kind ) explicitly into the expressions for the energies , and do not occur merely } coefficients .
A good example of the two classes of coordinates is afforded by the coordinates required to fix the position of a rod suspended by one extremity .
We may fix it by the angle which the rod makes with the vertical , and the azimuth of the plane through the rod and the vertical line through its fixed extremity .
The expression for the kinetic energy of the rod in terms of these coordinates is of the form ; the potential energy is of the form where , are constants .
We see that is a coordinate of the first kin , since it only enters the expression for the kinetic energy through its differential coefficient , while is a coordinate of the second kind , as functions of occur in the expressions for the kinetic and potential energies .
When the system is in a steady state the velocity of the first kind of coordinate is constant , while that of the second kind is zero .
In the variations which we shall suppose to suffer we shall suppose that the velocities of the kinosthenic coordinates remain unaltered , while the coordinates of the second kind are varied .
In calculating the mean of for a system in a steady state , we may suppose that all the terms in the kinetic energy which volve a differential coefficient of a coordinate of the second kind are omitted , since in the steady state these differential coefficients vallish .
We may , therefore , for our purpose , without loss of generality , suppose that , where is a molar coordinate of the second kind .
The equation may conveniently be written ; where and are molar coordinates of the first second kinds respectively , and is a molecular coordinate .
We may the last term by the reasoning , due to CLAUSIUS , which we have already given on page 474 , and we have just seeri that we may suppose , so that the equation becomes ; but , since the motion is is constant , so that this may be written Now we have supposed that the variation is of such a kind that remains tered ; in this case remains constant throughout the motion , and therefore vanishes , so that we have , . . . . . . . .
( 13 ) or has a stationary value for all changes which leave the velocities unchanged .
It is convenient to work with the mean values of , because , as we shall see later on , it is possible in many cases involving the motion of great numbers of molecules to calculate from data given by experiment , when it would not be possible to calculate L. The expression for the energy of a system consisting of a great number of molecules will contain terms of three kinds : ( 1 ) terms depending entirely on molar coordinates ; ( 2 ) terms depending partly upon molar and partly upon molecular coordinates ; and ( 3 ) telYns depending entirely upon molecular coordinates .
The energy expressed by the terms of the first kind can be entirely converted into mechanical work , while that expressed by the terms ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) can only be partially converted , the extent of the conversion depending on the distribution of kinetic energy throughout the system .
HELMHOLTZ calls the first kind of energy free energy , the other he calls bound energy .
Since the velocities are supposed to remain constant in the variations we contemplate in equation , it is evident that the only terms in the kinetic energy which are affected are those which involve the coordinates themselves .
The energy expressed by such terms we may call the positional kinetic energy , and it is the only part of the kinetic energy which we need consider , or which has any influence on the way in which any transformation of energy takes place .
We shall now go on to apply the principle that @ to some special cases .
HELNHOLTZ , " " Die Thermodynamik chemischer Vorgange , " " 'Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen , ' vol. 2 , p. 958 .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHySICAL PHENOMENA .
S6 .
The first case we shall take is that of evaporation .
Let us suppose that we have a liquid and its vapour in a closed vessel , and endeavour to find an expression for the density of the vapour when it is in equilibrium with the liquid .
We have here two systems for which we have to find expressions for when in a steady state , the first being the gas , the second the liquid .
The variation we shall consider is that which would be produced if a small antity of the liquid were vaporised , keeping the velocities of the molecules the same as in the liquid condition , and thus keeping the temperature of the liquid and gas constant .
We must find the effect of this change on the value of for the gas and the liquid .
To do this for the gas , let us consider the case of a cylinder furnished with a piston and containing a given quantity of gas .
Let denote the distance of the piston from the base of the cylinder , and let us look on the gas as a dynamical system defined by the coordinate We have , by LAGRANGE'S equations , force tending to increase or , when there is equilibrium , average external force tending to increase Since does not enter into the limits of integration , The average external force tending to increase is , where the pressure per unit area , and A is the area of the ton .
Thus If the gas obeys BOYLE'S Law , where is the density of the gas and the absolute temperature .
If be the volume of the gas , and if its mass be unity , we have , and so that Now : during the that we contemplate , remains constant ; hence we see that the change in is the same as the change in where is some constant density , so that we may put for the positional part of the kinetic energy , and that part of which depends on the density , where is the value of density is .
As the energy vanishes at the zero of absolute temperature , will contain as a factor , so that we may put for the mean kinetic energy , and that part of V which depends on tlJe density , , ( 14 ) where A may be a function of , but not of This is the value of the aforesaid part of for unit mass of the gas ; if the mass of the gas were , the value of this part of would be , and we may treat the gas as if it were a dynamical system whose positional Lagrangian function contained the term the variations being made at constant temperature .
We have next to consider the liquid .
The expansion of solids and liquids by heat shows that there must be some terms in the expression for the energies of a solid or liquid which indicate the existence of a stress depending on the temperature .
In order to find such terms , let us suppose that is the volume of the solid or liquid at the absolute temperature .
The dilatation per degree of temperature is DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
If the rate of dilatation be uniform and equal to , the dilatation for degrees is the stress required to produce this dilatation is , where is bulk modulus .
Now , we can show by HAMILTON'S principle that there will be a stress of this amount if , in the expression for the positional kinetic energy , there is the term where is a constant volume .
Since constant , constant , being the pressure to which the surface of the solid or liquid is exposed , constant ; so that the term in the positional etic energy may be written .
( 15 ) Thus a dynamical system with this term in the expression for the positional kinetic energy will behave like the solid or liquid so far nsion by heat goes .
We may add to this the term where is the mass of the solid or liquid , and a constant , as this term will not give rise to any stresses tending to strain the body .
Unless this term has different for the different states in which the body can , the temperature kepb constant , it will disappear from the variation equation .
We can now solve the problem of finding the density of the saturated vapour of a liquid at any temperature .
Let us suppose that we have a mass of the liquid and its vapour in a closed space : let be the mass of the vapour , that of the liquid , , the mean intrinsic potential energies of mass of the vapour and liquid respectively , the volume occupied by the vapour .
Then , if there is no energy due to surface-tenslon , electrification , and so on , the value of for the yapour , using the same notat on as before , is for the liquid If be the density of the liquid we have also ; hence the value of for the solid and liquid equals Let us suppose that the mass of the vapour is increased by S ; then , since is stationary , the temperature remaining constant .
Hence we have .
( 16 ) When the mass of the vapour increases by S , the mass of the liquid diminishes by the same amount , so that the volume of the liquid dimimshes by S/ , and therefore , since the liquid and vapour are supposed to be contained in a vessel of constant volume , the volume of the liquid increases by the same amount , so that and equation ( 16 ) becomes ; ( 17 ) or if , for breyity , we write ; . . . . .
( 18 ) or , since is very small , we have approximately , writing for .
( 19 ) [ The quantity most closely related to is the latent heat of evaporation , but the two quantities are not necessarily identical , for is the excess of the intrinsic potential energy of unit mass of the vapour over that of unit mass of the liquid at the same temperature .
The latent heat , however , at this temperature is DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
the amount of work required to convert unit mass of liquid into pour .
If kinetic energy of unit mass of the liquid is the same as that of unit of the at the same temperature , the latent heat will equal , but if the energies are different , then , since the latent heat equals the diffcrencc between the sum of the kinetic and potential energies , it will not equal ] In the above work we have assumed that the vapour obeys BOyLL'S Law .
If we assume that the relation between pressure , density and temperature is that given by DER WAALS ' formula where is the reciprocal of the density , and and constants , we may show , in a way similar to that by which we established equation ( 16 ) , that , when the vapour is in equilibrium with the fluid , ; or , since is very small , we may write this equation as , ( 20 ) neglecting , and writing for a number of constant terms .
S .
The method just given enables us to calculate readily the effect of slight changes in the physical conditions on the vapour-pressure .
Let us take , first , the effect of surface-tension .
If the shape of the liquid is such that the area ) of its free surface changes when any of it evaI ) orates , then we must take into account the energy due to the surface-tension .
Let us suppose that the liquid is a spherical drop , whose radius is ; then we must add to the expression for the mean potential energy of the liquid the term , where is the surface-tension of the liquid .
In this case , the same notation as before , and assuming BOYLE'S Law , we have ; and the equation got by making the value of ionary for a small change in is A ; ( 21 ) *Paragraph substituted October , 1887 . .
\mdash ; A. but so that and equation ( 21 ) becomes .
( 22 ) this with equation ( 17 ) , we see that , if S be the change in the vapourdue to the curvature , or @ ( 23 ) This cides with the formula given by Sir WILLIAM THOMSON ( ' Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' Feb. 7 , 1870 ; quoted in MAXWELL'S ' Theory of Heat , ' p. 290 ) .
We can also prove that the density of the saturated vapour will be altered by drops of the liquid with ectricity .
For suppose the drop to be spherical and charged with a quantity of electricity .
The potential energy due to the tion of the drop is ; subtracting this from the value previously given for , we may easily prove , in the same way as before , that the change S in the vapour-density , due to the electri{ication , is given by the equation , ( 24 ) assuming that as the drops evaporate the electricity remains behind on the drop .
This seems to be proved by BLAKE'S experiments on the evaporation of electrified liquids Lehre Elektricitat , .
We see from equation ( 24 ) that electrification diminishes the density of the saturated vapour , so that moisture might condense on a drop of water when electrified , though the same drop would evaporate if not charged with electricity .
This would tend to make electrified drops of rain larger than nelectrified ones , and would probably tend to increase the size of the rain drops in a thunderstorm .
The maximum value of in air at atmospheric pressure is about 130 C.G.S. units in electrostatic measure , so that the maximum change in the density of the saturated yapour is given by the equation DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
for watel at atmospheric pressure is about , so that Sp , the altel.ation in pressure , which equals S , is equal to which is roughly about 87 , so that the maximum change in the vapour-pressure which can be produced by is about of the vapou].-pressure of water at C. In sulphuric acid the ratio would be very much greater .
We can calculate in a similar way the alteration in the yapour-pressure produced by any alteration in the state of the liquid .
All we have to do is to calculate change in the value of due to this altel.ation .
If this change be , then we may prove , just as before , that S. . . . . .
( 25 ) It should be noticed that S and are of the same sign , so that the presence of any kind of energy which causes to increase as evaporation goes on will facilitate the evaporation .
Thus , in the case of surface-tension , the potential energy due to the surface-tension diminishes as evaporation goes on : this corresponds to increase in , so that the surface-tension will facilitate the evaporation ; again , in the electrical case , the potential energy due to the electrification increases as evaporation goes on : this corresponds to a decrease in , so that the electrification will tend to stop the evaporation .
These are only special cases of a general principle , of we shall find frequent illustrations in the Qequent work .
S 8 .
Another problem to which the method can be applied is that of a gas partly dissociated into two components .
Let us suppose that we have a quantity of gas in a vessel whose volume is that part of it is in its normal condition , which we shall call , while the molecules the rest of the gas have been split up : we shall call this state of the gas B. Let of the gases in the states A and respectively .
the value of for the gas in the state A is , by the investigation on p. 487 , , PROFE@SOR J. J. THOMSON ON SOME APPLICATIONS OF where is a constant , the density of the gas in the state the absolute temperature , the mean potential energy of unit mass of the gas ; being the pressure of the gas .
Since , we may write this as .
( 26 ) The value of for the gas in state is similarly , ( 27 ) where letters with the suffix 2 denote for gas in the state quantities corresponding to those denoted by the same letters with the suffix 1 for gas in the state A. The value of for the whole system the sum of ( 26 ) and ( 27 ) .
Let us suppose that a mass S of the gas in the state A gets decomposed ; then , if S be the increase in the of the gas in the sbate , we have SS .
The change in the positional part of for the system is -@ ; but SS , and when the system is in a steady state the variation of vanishes , so that we have .
( 28 ) If two of the molecules of the gas in the state make up one of those in the state , that is , if the gas on splits up into two components , we have Making this substitution , equation ( 28 ) becomes , ( 29 ) where is a constant .
If the density of the mixture of normal and dissociated gas be S , and the density of the normal gas at the same density and pressure , then we have ' DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHySICAL PHENOMENA .
so that and ; again VS ; so that ( 2S\mdash ; d ) , .
Substituting these values for and in equation ( 29 ) , we get .
( 30 ) Ihis formula agrees substantially in form with one given by Professor WILLARD GIBBS in his paper on the " " Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances\ldquo ; ( ' Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences , ' vol. , 1874-8 , p. 239 ) .
In his paper on the vapour-densities of nitrogen tetroxide , formic acid , acetic acid , and per- chloride of phosphorus American Journal Science Arts , , Professor GIBBS compares the density giyen by his ] with those found by various experimenters for the substances mentioned in the title of his paper , and he finds that the two sets of values agree very closely .
Solution .
S9 .
We can apply the Hamiltonian principle to cases when a solid and liquid are in equilibrium in presence of each other , as , for example , when we have a mixture of ice and water , or a salt in a saturated solution of a liquid in which it can dissolve .
Let us first consider the case of liquefaction and take the case of the melting of ice as the typical one .
We must first find the value of for a mixture of ice and water .
The positional part of for a solid or a liquid contains the term where is the volume of the solid or liquid , is a constant , and is obtained on the supposition that is constant .
Thus the positional part of for the mixture of ice and water equals , ( 31 ) where is the mean potential energy of the mixture .
By HAMILTON'S principle this expression must be stationary when there is equilibrium , the temperaturelemaining constant .
Let us suppose unit mass of ice to melt : the change in the first terms is where is the volume of unit mass of water , and the volume of unit mass of ice .
The increase in the potential energy is equal to the latent heat under the pressure of water , so that HAMILTON'S principle gives .
( 32 ) Now PLANCK has shown*that , ( 33 ) where , the pressure to which both the ice and water are subjected , is regarded as a function of the temperature alone .
Hence we have , by equation ( 32 ) , , ( 34 ) the well-known equation connecting the change in the melting point of ice with the change in the pressure to which it is subjected .
In this eq.uation is the increase in the potential energy when unit mass of the ice melts .
It will depend to some extent upon external circumstances ; thus , if the water is of such a shape that the area of its free surface changes when ice melts , then , on account of the energy due to surface-tension , will depend upon the change in the surface .
As the volume diminishes as the ice melts , the surface will in general diminish , so that the energy due to this cause will be diminished by the liquefaction , and the effect of pressure upon the freezing-point increased .
Since the volume changes , work is done by or against the external pressure : thus will be a nction of the pressure .
If be the value of when the pressure is zero , the value when the pressure is , we may easily prove that so that diminishes as the pressure increases , and the effect on the freezing-point of a given increment of pressure will increase as the pressure increases .
* WIEDEMANN'S Annalen , ' vol. 13 , p. 541 .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
Solution .
S 10 .
The next case we shall consider is that of a saturated salt solution .
Let be the mean value of ( constant ) at the temperature for the salt , the value of the corresponding quantity for the solution ; let be the volume of the salt , that of the solution , the mass of the salt , that of the solution ; the mean potential energy of unit mass of the salt , that of unit mass of the solution .
Then , if there is no energy due to strain , electrification , \amp ; c. , the positional part of will be equal to . . . . . .
( 35 ) When there is equilibrium this must be stationary , so that , if we suppose a small quantity Sq ' of the salt to melt , the value of must remain ered .
If and are the densities of the salt and the solution respectively , then when the mass Sq ' of the salt melts the changes in the volume of the salt and the solution are given by . . . .
( 36 ) As the properties of the fluid may alter with the amount of salt dissolved , we must regard and as functions of .
Remembering this , we see that the change in the value of , when a mass Sq ' of the salt dissolves , is and this , by the Hamiltonian principle , must vanish .
Hence , equating the quantity inside the brackets to zero , we have .
( 37 ) This equation would determine , the density of the saturated solution , if we knew how , and depended upon the amount of salt in unit volume of the solution ; as , however , we have not this information , we cannot reduce this formula numbers .
We can , however , use it to calculate the effect upon ) density of the solution of any change in the external circumstances .
In the preceding investigation we have supposed that the energy possessed by the salt and the solution was all intrinsic as it were , and that none of it depended upon strain , electrification , magnetisation , and so on .
The methods of calculating the potential energy due to strain , \amp ; c. , are , of course , well known .
The corresponding terms in the kinetic energy can be calculated in the following way .
We saw , on p. 480 , that if is a coordinate of any type , and a quantity such that , when is increased by Sy , the energy in the system is increased by PSy , then may be regarded as a force of the type , so that , if this force depends upon the temperature , there will be a term in the mean kinetic energy equal to so that the expression for the positional part of the kinetic energy equals ; the summation being extended over the types of coordinates .
The term in the potential energy corresponding to the coordinate of type will be where is the part of which is independent of the temperature .
By the above equations we can calculate the term in the expressions for both the kinetic and potential energies involving the coordinates of any type .
If , however , we only require to calculate the value of , a much simpler process is applicable .
For when the system is in a steady state so that we have .
( 38 ) Let us now apply these equations to calculate the effect which any change in the external circumstances has upon the solubility of a salt .
Let us , for example , consider the effect of capillarity .
Then , if the process of solution alters the volume of the mixture of salt and water , it will in general alter the surface , and so alter the energy due to the surface-tension .
If it increases the energy , the surface-tension will tend to stop the solution ; if it diminishes the energy , the surface-tension will facilitate the solution .
The energy due to the surface-tension will change even though the volume remains if the surface-tension depends upon the quantity of salt dissolved in the liquid ; if the surface-tension diminishes as the salt dissolves , then the surfacetension will facilitate the solution ; if it increases , it will tend to prevent the salt dissolving .
This result , as well as the preceding , follows from equation .
We see , by that equation , that anything which makes increase will increase DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
the difference between for the solution , and the same quantity for the salt , and therefore probably diminish the quantity of salt in the solution ; for it seems natural to expect that , the more salt we have dissolved in the solution , the more nearly will the properties of the solution approximate to those of the salt .
Any additional energy which increases as solution goes on makes positive , and therefore tends to stop the solution .
To calculate the magnitude of the effect due to capillarity , let us suppose that the mixture of salt and solution is in the form of a spray of spherical drops of radius The additional term in due to the surface-tension will be where is the surface-tension .
We have then , from ( 37 ) , ; but so that , and therefore .
( 39 ) We can determine experimentally the value of all the quantities on the right-hand side of this equation , and , if we know the quantity in brackets on the left-hand side as a function of , we can at once determine the change in the density of the solution .
We can express this in a way which more readily admits of comparison with experiment .
Suppose that the existence of the surface-tension causes as much salt to be absorbed at as would be absorbed if there were no surface-tension at ; then , by comparing equations ( 37 ) and ( 39 ) , we see that but the denominator is the increase of potential energy when unit mass of the salt dissolves .
We can measure this by the cooling .
Let it be denoted by ; then .
( 41 ) Hence we see that the density of the saturated solution depends upon the extent of of the liquid , so that , if we alter the surface , we may either deposit or absorb salt .
Effects of this kind have , I believe , been observed by chemists .
Let us now proceed to .
the effects of pressure on the solubility .
Let us suppose the mixture of salt and lution is under a pressure per unit area .
The effect of the pressure will be due to two causes .
The first is the change of volume which nies solution , and which causes the process of solution to be accompanied by an expenditure or absorption of work ; the second cause is that the energy due to strain in unit of the salt is not , in general , the same as that of an equal mass of the solution , so that there will be a change in the potential energy when the salt dissolves .
If be the bulk modulus for the salt , for the solution , the rest of the notation .
the as before , then the change in the potential energy due to strain is , when unit of salt dissolves , ; the increase in the potelltial energy due to the change in volume is , so that we have , by equation ( 37 ) , or , if the ange due to pressure be the same as the change due to an increase S in the temperature , we have .
( 43 ) Thus we see that the effect of pressure consists of two parts , one of which is proportional to the pressure , and the other to the square of it .
It will be well to try to gain some idea of the relative magnitude of these effects .
Let us suppose that the pressure is spheres , that is , in .S .
units , .
We do not know accurately the value of the second term on the left-hand side of equation , but , since for water is about , the multiplier of will be of about the order , so that the ratio of the second term to the first will be of the order DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSIC If the alteration in the volume of the saturated solution amounts to a cubic millimetre per gramme of salt dissolved , is , so that so that with this amount of tion in volume the terms proportional to the will be the most important for pressures up to 100 atmospheres , while for greater than this the term proportional to the sqnare of the pressures will ) the most important .
In the case of a solution of -ammoniac increase in yolume is enormously greater than that stated , so that for such a salt the effect of pressure on the solubility ought to be very nearly opoltional to the pressure .
This aglees with SORBY'S experiments on the solubility of certain salts .
* In this case the eliect of pressure is expressed by the equation ( 44 ) We call test the formula by comparing with the result of ] on the effect of pressure upon the solubility .
two salts we shall potassium sulphate and sodium , as we can get values for these for the quantities uvolved in equation ( 44 ) .
According to J. THObISEN , heat absorbed granlmes of dissolve in water is 6380 gramme-degree units , so that the heat absorbed one grain of will be about 36 gramme-degrees or C.G.S. units .
We take this as an approximation to the value of , though it must be remenbered is the heat absorbed when one gramme of salt is dissolyed in a nearly saturated solution .
According to SORBY , when ystallises out of a saturated solution , the volume increases from 100 to 134 , so that , when a cubic centimetre of salt dissolves , the volume diminishes by about .
The specific gravity of is about so that , when one gramme of salt dissolyes , the volume dinuinishes by , and , so that for 100 atmospheres the change in temperature required to produce the same change in solubility is at the C. given by the equation @ SORBY found that the dissolved increased by about 3 cent. ) to KOPP , 100 parts of water dissolve parts of at ] ] *kSoRBY , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 12 , .3 for every degree above , so that at C. an increase of 2 per cent. would cause an increase of 348 part in , which is bout 3 per cent. , so that in this case the agreement is almost closer than we could have expected .
In the case of we have , getting the data from the same sources as before\mdash ; ; hence the change in temperature required to produce the same change as 100 atmospheres at 5 approximately .
Now , according to the curve of solubility of given in OSTWALD'S ' Lehrbuch der Allgemeinen Chemie , ' vol. 1 , p. 380 , about 34 parts dissolve at , and the increase is about of a part per degree Centigrade , so that for the increase would be about in 34 : this is 40 per cent. The value found by SORBY was per cent. , so that the agreement is again very close .
Choemical S11 .
We can apply HAMILTON'S principle to the case of chemical combination .
us in the first place take cases of the type studied by GULDBERG and WAAGE in their theory of chemical combination ( ' Etudes sir les Affinites Chimiques In these cases there is equilibrium between various chemical actions which tend to reverse each other : a good example of such cases is that of a mixture of dilute solutions ofsulphuri and nitric acids , nitrate , and sodium sulphate .
When the sulphuric acid acts on the sodium nitrate it produces nitric acid and sodium sulphate , while nitric ) by its action on sodium sulphate produces sulphuric acid and sodium nitrate .
The problem is , given four substances of this kind , to find the quantity of each when there is equilibrium .
Let us begin with the case of four gases , which we will call , such that A by its action on produces and , while by its action on produces A and B. Let , be the number of molecules of , respectively , when , are the numbers of molecules in equivalent molecules .
By equivalent molecules we mean molecules , or groups of molecules , such that , being the equivalent molecule of the gas , with a corresponding notation for the others , the nical action which goes on may be expressed by the equation DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHLNOMENA .
Let us take as an example the case mentioned above , where the chemical action is expressed by the equation ; here the equivalent molecules are , and ; and , if , denote sulphuric acid , sodium nitrate , nitric acid , and sodium sulphate respectively , Let , denote the masses of the molecules of , respectively .
Then , if these are gases , by what we have proved before ( p. 486 ) , the value of equals , ( 45 ) where is the mean potential energy of the four gases , and the notation is the same as that on p. 486 .
The quantities , are not independent of each other ; in fact , there are three relations between them .
Thus suppose , for example , that consists of the two components of , S ; of and of and S , then the chemical reaction is expressed by the equation , so that we have evidently a constant , so that .
( 46 ) Thus , if be increased by , the change in equals ; and by HAMILTON'S principle the quantity in square ackets must vanish when there is equilibrium .
For perfect gases ( i.e. , gases which obey BOYLE'S Law ) .
( 47 ) Let each of these quantities equal ; then the equation of equilibrium becomes .
( 48 ) We see this equation that allything which increases will increase . .
, and so will diminish , so that , if there is any kind of potential energy which increases as increases , the value of when there is equilibrium will be smaller than it would have been if this energy had not been present ; or , in more general terms , any clrcumstance which causes the potential energy to increase as chemical action goes on tends to stop the action , while , if it causes the energy to diminish , it will facilitate the action .
Equation ( 47 ) may written , . . . . .
( 49 ) where is independent of In the case of gases oining in a vessel of constant volume , and when there is no action on the sides of the vessel , , being the increase in the potential energy when one equivalent of acts on one of , to produce one each of A and may be measured by the heat developed in the reverse process , that is , when an equivalent of A acts on one of to produce one each of and D. Let us call this quantity of heat ( measured in mechanical units ) ; then .
( 50 ) If be positive , and zero , then either or must be zero ; that is , the chemical action which is attended by the production of heat will go on as far as possible .
This is Law of Maximum Work , and we see from the above expression that it holds at the zero of absolute temperature , but only then .
Equation ( 49 ) also shows that the tendency of any chemical reaction to take place is greater , the larger the amount of heat developed by it .
If all the equivalents contain the same number of molecules , we may put , and equation ( 50 ) takes the simple form .
( 61 ) GULDBERG and WAAGE put , where is a constant .
This agrees with equation ( 50 ) if the temperature remains constant .
Equation ( 50 ) shows how the DYNAMICAL PRINC I TO PHYSICAL PIIENOIILNA .
equilibrium varies with the temperature , and shows , the lower temperature , the further that action which is attended by the evolution of goes , and the equilibrium will vary more quickly with the temperature when the develoI)ed by the reaction is great when it is small .
By determining the state of eqnilibrium at two different , we could mine H. Since , by the kinetic theory of where is the pressure and the llulnber of molecules , we see that is one-third of the mean energy of the molecules at the ture .
In many cases of chemical combination the heat developed by the combination of the ases is enormously than that required to raise heir temperature through 3 , and in these cases will be very large , so that the tions will nearly obey BERTHELOT'S Law at moderate tempera)tures .
But this will not hold when only a small quantity of heat is developed in the reaction .
Equation ( 49 ) only agrees with that given by GULDBERG and WAAGE when the number of molecules in the equivalent is the same in each of the gases ; and , if we look at the subject from another point of view , we shall also see reasons for supposing that GULDBERG'S and equation is not likely to hold the equivalents contain different numbers of molecules .
Let us first the case the molecule and the equivalent molecule are identical .
Then , calling the four substances as before , combinations will take place by a molecule of A iring with one of B. The number of collisions in unib time between the A and molecules is proportional to , and if combination takes place in a certain fraction of the number of cases of collision the nunlber of A molecules which disappear in unit time through this combination , or , what is the same thing , the number of and molecules produced , where is a constant .
In a similar way we may show that the number of and molecules by their combination to form A and molecules is where is again a constant quantity .
When there is { he number of A and olecules which must equal the number which appear , so that in this which , so long as the temperature is constant , rees w equation ( 49 ) and with GCLDBERG'S and WAAGE'S equation .
Let suppose the eqnivalents of and contain two molecules .
In this case , for chemical combination to take place , one molecule of A must come into collision with two of simultaneously .
The number of such collisions is proportional to , so that the number of equivalents of A and destroyed and of and produced by this combination will be where is a constant .
In a similar way we can show that the number of equivalents of and destroyed and of A and produced in unit time by the combination of and is where is a constant .
In the state of equilibrium these quantities must be equal , so that which , so long as the temperature remains constant , agrees with equation ( 49 ) , but not with GULDBERG and WAAGE'S equation .
In order to illustrate some important points connected with the theory of the combination of gases , we will consider the simpler case when two gases , A and combine to form a third , , while again splits up to form A and B. A particular case of this is dissociation , which we have already considered .
Let , be the number of equivalents of , respectively , and let , be the masses of the molecules of , C. Then , with the same notation as the last case , the value of is where is the mean potential energy of the three gases .
We have , as before , ; so that the condition that the value of should be unaltered when is increased by gives . . . .
( 52 ) For perfect gases DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
Making this substitution , the equation of equilibrium becomes .
( 53 ) This equation may be written .
( 54 ) If the combination takes place without alteration in the number of molecules , In this case the equilibrium state is independent of the volume of the vessel O. in which a given mass of gas is contained .
If , that is , if the number of molecules after combination is les that before , will increase with , so that ) will be larger , the greater the value of , so that for a given quantity of the gases there will not be so much combination in a large vessel when the pressure is small as in a smaller one when the pressure is large .
If , on the other hand , , then the amount of combination wil ] be greater at low than at high pressures .
We see from equation ( 54 ) that anything which affects the value of will affect the amount of the combination which takes place ; anything which causes the potential energy to increase as chemical combination goes on , i. e. , which tends to make negative , increases , by equation ( 54 ) , the value of ) that is , it increases the ratio of the number of uncombined atoms to the combined ones , and so tends to stop the combination ; while , on the other hand , anything which makes the potential energy diminish as chemical combination goes on , since it tends to increase , diminishes the ratio of the number of uncombined atoms to the number of combined ones , and so facilitates the combination .
If we define the coefficient of affinity , , of the gases A and , to be the value of the steady state of then ( 55 ) and if the potential energy be increased by S , the corresponding increment S in the coefficient of affinity is given by the equation ( 56 ) ' PROF SSOR J. J. THOMSON ON SOME APPLICATIONS OF an equation which connects the alteration in the coefficient of affinity with the iteration in the potential energy .
The years of condensed on the surfaces of solids in contact with the gas may , perhaps , be looked upon as corresponding to the surface films of liquids , and as energy different from that possessed by the same volume of gas when not attached to the sides of the vessel .
In this case part of the of the gas would depend upon the of the solids in contact with it , just as in a liquid the existence of surface-tension makes part of the energy of a fluid proportional to its .
It is , perhaps , worthy of notice that , according to the vortex ring theory of gases , part of the energy of a gas at a given pressure and volume depends upon the Treatise Motion Vortex Rings , .
If the layer of condensed gas were to contain an abnormal amount of energy , we could easily explain the influence exerted in some cases of chemical combination by the walls of the vessel in which the combination takes place ( J. H. VAN HOFF , 'Etudes de mique Chimique , ' p. 58 ) , and also the influence exerted by finely divided charcoal platinum where a very large surface is exposed .
For the explanation given above shows that , if the energy of unit area of the condensed gas varies as chemical combination goes on , the action of the sul.face layer will either promote or impede chemical combination .
It will promote it if the energy per unit surface decreases as combination goes on ; impede it , if this energy increases .
If the specific inductive capacity of the mixture of gases alters as the chemical combination goes on , their combination will be effected by placing them in an eJectric field .
The chemical action will be checked if the specific inductive capacity increases as combination goes on ; promoted , if it diminishes .
S 12 .
The equations contained in the preceding investigation express the result of actions which are usually termed by the chemists " " mass actions These , however , have been chiefly studied in the case of very dilute solutions , so that it is important to endeavoul to apply our results to this case .
If we regard a solution of one substance A in another as equivalent to a distribution of the molecules of A through the volume occupied by , then these molecules .
will behave with respect to each other very much like the molecules of a gas , and we may suppose tlJat the value of is expressed by an equation of the same form .
view would have to be modified if the nature of the solvent should be found to influence the equilibrium of a mixture of various reagents , and we should have to apply the more general method which we shall discuss later on .
In those cases , however , where the solvent is without influence the above assumption that the solvent only separates the molecules of the substances dissolved seerns legitimate .
If this be so , the investigation by the Hamiltonian principle of the case , when dilute solutions of four reagents , , act upon each other , is the same in form as that ated on p. where four gases , , act upon each other .
Let us suppose that when A acts on it produces and , and when acts on it proDYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL duces A and B. Then , if , be the number of equivalents of , respec , the umber of molecules in these equiyalents , the mean potential energy of the mixture of the ents , the absolute temperature , have , ( 57 ) where is the volume of the solvent , and and are constallts ; we must llot , however , assume without proof that the value of is the same that of the quantity by the same letter for gases .
The same conclusions as to the coincidence of this law with that of at the zero of absolute temperature , and the close approximation between the two at ordinary temperatures in those cases where a very large amount of heat is developed in the reaction , hold in this case as well as in that of the gases .
We will now apply this formula to some cases which have been experimentally investigated .
The one to which most attention has been directed is that of a of dilute solutions of nitric and sulphuric acids , sodium nitrate , and sodium sulphate .
Here the reaction is represented by the equation and equation ( 57 ) becomes where depends upon the temperature , but not on , or .
Here , are respectively the number of equivalents of sulphuric acid , sodium nitrate , nitric acid , and sodium sulphate .
In order to fix the values of , we must know whether the molecules of sodium nitrate and nitric acid in the solution are to be represented by , or by and ; if first supposition is correct , then ; if the latter , .
In the first case the equation is ; in the second , THOMSEN has determined the state of equilibrium when solutions of nitric acid and sodium sulphate are mixed together in varying proportions .
I have calculated from his results the corresponding value of and .
In the following Table is the ratio of the number of equivalents of sodium sulphate to the number of equivalents of nitric acid before chemical combination commences .
' .
, 112 .
PROFESSOR .
J. THOMSON ON SOME APPLICATIONS OF 3.2 1.0 It is evident from the above Table that , except when the amount of nitric acid originally present is very small , the second equation , which requires to be constant , does not with the experiments , while the first , which requires to be constant , does agree fairly well , except in those cases where the quantity of nitric acid present is originally small .
Hence we conclude that , except in these cases , the molecule and the equivalent coincide , that is , the molecule of nitric acid in the solution is represented by ; a similar conclusion applies to the molecule of sodium nitrate , the molecule of which in the soluticn has to be represented by .
When the quantity of nitric acid initially present is very small , the second equation seems to agree with the experiments better than the first , so that it might seem as if , when the quantity of nitric acid was very small , the molecule was and not ; but , as in this case a small error in the experiments would make a large error in or , too much weight must not be attached to it .
It seems quite possible that there are molecules of both types , and that in concentrated solutions those of the type are by far the most numerous .
Cases when one or more of the Reagents are insoluble .
S13 .
Let us suppose that A is insoluble ; then for A the positional part of the kinetic energy equals where is the mean value of ( constant ) , and is the volume .
If be the density of , we may write this Hence for the system equals DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
The condition that should be stationary is therefore ( 58 ) This equation may be written as .
( 59 ) If two of the constituents , say A and , are insoluble , then we can easily prove in a similar way that . . . . . .
( 60 ) The Effect of on the S14 .
If we define the coefficient of the rea , ction to be the value of when there is equilibrium , and denote it by the symbol , then we have ; ( 61 ) so that , if S be the alteration in the value of when the temperature is increased by S , we have approximately , if ) does not change with the temperature , and if its ratio to is large , so that the term in which varies most rapidly with the temperature is ; ( 62 ) so that the percentage change in for a giyen change in yaries inversely as the square of the absolute temperature , and directly as , which , when the system free from strain , electrification , \amp ; c. , is the amount of heat given out when one lent of A combines with one of to form one each of and D. The greater this amount of heat , the more quickly will the coefficient of the reaction vary with the temperature .
We shall now proceed to rednce expression to numbers , assumlng , as an approximate value of , that it is the same as for gases .
In this ) where is the pressure and the density .
be the amount of heat produced when grammes of A combine , being the weight of , then , \mdash ; ' where is the number of equivalents in a gramme of A. In order to simplify the reasoning , let us suppose that we are considering a case where the molecule and the equivalent are identical , Nm since Nm Since is the same for all gases , and since for Hydrogen it is about , we have and therefore , by equation ( 62 ) , In the case of hydrochloric acid , sulphuric acid , sodium sulphate , and sodium chloride THOMSEN found so that in this case approximately ; so that a temperature of about C. , an alteration of 1o C. , would make a change of about 1 per cent. in the value of S15 .
The formula enables us to calculate readily the disturbing effect produced by any slight alteration in the external circumstances .
* LOTHAR MEYER : 'Theorien der Chemie , ' 4th edit .
, p. DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PtHCNOMENA .
.511 Putting , as before , we see that S , the change in due to a change Sw in the ] of the potential energy , is given by the equation .
( G3 ) so that , if .
Sw/ d is positive , S is positive , that is , in the of equilibrium .
and are smaller than they would have been if Sw had been zero ; so that , if an increase in increases the additional potential energy , the value of in the state of equilibrium will be diminished .
If , on the other hand , the additional potential energy dimimishes as increases , the value of in the state of will be increased .
Effcct of S16 .
Let us first consider the case when the additional potelltial energy is due to capillarity ; then S/ TS , where is the area of the surface , and the surface-tension .
Hence we have , from Equation ( 63 ) , .
( 64 ) Thus , if either the surface-tension or the area of the surface alters as chemical combination proceeds , the final state of equilibrium will depend upon the extent of surface .
The state of equilibrium will be different when solution is spyead out over a large surface from that which exists when the solution exposes only a small free surface .
Considerations of this kind would explain the experiments of Professor LIHjBREICH on the precipitation of by the mixture of hydrate of chloral and an alkaline solution .
( ' Nature , ' vol. S5 , p. 264 .
) In these expel.iments it was observed that when the solutions were mixed in a test-tube the top layer remained clear , no precipitation taking place inside it , and the same phenomenon occurred in the lary space between two plates ; in short tubes the reaction .
altogether .
The equations obta , ined bove apply to this case .
Since the surface-tenslon of pure water is altered by the addition of other substances , the surface-tenslon of the mlxture of chloral and alkaline solution will be altered by the withdrawal from the solution of chloral and alkali ; let .
suppose that it is increased ; then the precipitation of the chloroform will increase the surface-tension , and there , fore the potential energy due to it .
Thus , if in this case is the number of equivalents of chloroform , Su)/ d is positive , and therefore the existence of surface-tension diminishes the value of , that is , it diminishes the precipitation .
In the case mentioned above it seems to have been able to stop the precipitation altogether .
The effects of surface-tension will be most noticeable when the heat developed by the chemical action is small .
Some other effects produced by surface-tension on chemical action are considered in a paper read before the Cambridge Philosophical Society , February 1887 , by Professor LIVING .
Surface-tension will also affect the equilibrium when chemical combination produces a change in volume , even though the surface remains unaltered .
Effects of Pressure .
S 17 .
If be the volume , the pressure , the coefficient of compressibility of the solution , then , just as in the case of solution , we have .
( 65 ) Thus pressure produces two effects , the one being proportional to the pressure , the other to the square of it .
If the volume increases as chemical combination goes on , external pressure will tend to stop the combination ; and , vice versed , the change in the coefficient of reaction due to this case is given by the equation or , approximately , .
( 66 ) If the coefficient of compressibility increases as chemical action goes on , external pressure will tend to facilitate the combination , and the change in the coefficient of the reaction due to this cause is .
( 67 ) HORSTMANN'S Experiments on the Division of Oxygen between Carbonic Oxide Hydrogen .
S18 .
We shall now proceed to apply the Hamiltonian principle to this case , which is more complicated than any of the preceding .
In these experiments hydrogen , carbonic oxide , and oxygen were mixed together and exploded , and the proportion of hydrogen , oxygen , carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , and water in the mixture after the explosion determined .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
5 .
13 Let , be the number of molecules of hydrogen , oxygen , rbonic oxide , carbonic acid , and watel respectively ; then the value of will be where ?
are respectively the masses of the hydrogen , oxygen , carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , and water molecules respectively ; , . .
the value of for these gases ; the mean potential energy of the mixture of gases , and the volume of the vessel in which they are contained .
Since the quantity of hydrogen in the mixture remains constant , a constant ; and , since the quantity of oxygen remains constant , ; ( 68 ) since the quantity of carbon constant , a constant .
Since there are three equations between these five quantities , we may take two of them , independent variables .
Let us take and as our independent variables ; then we have from the aboye equations ' ( G9 ) By the Hamiltonian principle we have so that .
( 70 ) Since , we may write this b14 PROFESSOR J. J. THOMSON ON SOME APPLICATIONS OF , ( 71 ) wtlere C is a constant .
From the equation we similar .
( 72 ) Equations ( 71 ) and ( 72 ) , along with the three equations ( 68 ) , are sufficient to determine the five quantities If we multiply equations ( 71 ) } together , we get ( 73 ) so that , as long as the temperature remains constant , is constant ; or , in words , the ratio of the quantities of water and carbonic acid formed by the explosion always bears a constant ratio to the ratio of the quantity of hydrogen left free to the quantity of free carbonic acid .
Since equations ( 71 ) and ( 72 ) involve , the amount of combination which goes on when a givcn quantity of the gases are exploded will depend upon the volume in which they are confined .
The equations show that the amount of combination will increase as the volume diminishes .
In a paper on the " " Chemical Combination of Gases\ldquo ; I arrived at similar results ( except with regard to the effect of temperature , which I did not investigate ) by a purely kinematical Method to Solutions of any Strength .
S 9 .
When the solutions are too concentrated to ) ermit us to assume that the energy possessed by the molecules of the salt is the same as the energy possessed by the same number of molecules in the gaseous state , we must use the more general expression given on p. 487 for the positional part of , viz. , * ' Phil. Mag vol. 19 , 1884 .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL NOMENA .
where , in finding the value of , we suppose to be constant , and ) is the mean potential energy of the system .
If be the number of equivalent molecules of the substances , C. . .
in the solution , then , since must be stationary when the system is in equilibrium , we have , ( 74 ) with as many equations of a similar type as there are independent variables .
We can experimentally determine the way in which and vary with the quantities of the various substances in the solntion ; and , if we have sufficient data to express these quantities as functions of , .
, the equations of the type ( 74 ) will enable us to find the values of , . .
when there is equilibrium .
part of which depends upon the chemical affinity of the substances for each other can be measured by the heat developed when the chemical action which causes the diminution of the number of equivalents of the substance A by one goes on .
But , just as in the case of the more dilute solutions , part of may be , he due to surface-tension , electrification , compression , \amp ; c and the presence of this energy will affect the state of equilibrium .
The Velocity of emical C S 20 .
It is much easier in mally cases to measure the rate at which chemical change takes place than to determine the final state of equilibrium .
lt seems deslrable , therefore , in order to facilitate the comparison of theory with experiment , to endeayour to deduce some expression for the velocity of chemical Let us suppose that , as before , we have a nber of substances which act che1nically on each other .
Let be the number of equivalents of these substances : these will be connected by various equations ; let us choose .
as independent variables .
Then , since when there is equilibrium we conclude that these quantities have something to do with the velocity with which chemical change goes on .
Now the approach of a mixture of various to ts state of equilibrium is not like the approach of a vibrating body resisted by a force to its position of equilibrium , for after the mixture has got to its .
of equilibrium it stays there instead of vibrating about it like the inary dynamical system .
Thus the mixture behaves like a system in which inertia absent or comparatively unimportant ; we may , therefore , suppose that the accelerations , \amp ; c. , are absent from the equations of motion of the mixture , and we may assume , at ally rate when , are small , that , ( 75 ) where A and are either constants or functions of , \amp ; c. , whose valu , es we do not .
From the inateness of A and , we cannot use these equations to determine the absolute velocity of chemical change .
We cao , however , use them to determine the effect on this velocity of any alteration in the external circumstances .
Thus , suppose that the circumstances are changed so that is increased by SL ; then , if denotes the in the velocity of , we have so that ( 76 ) and we can measure all the quantities occurring in this equation , and so compare it with eriment .
If the change in the energy be du to surface-tension , then , if be area of the surface , the surface-tension , we have .
( 77 ) If the change in the circumstances be da to the action of the pressure , then , ( 78 ) where V is the volume of the mixture and its coefficient of compressibility .
The value of for gases is given by equation ( 14 ) ; for solids snd liquids by equation ( 74 ) .
Effects .
S21 .
So far we have only considered those cases which involve nothing but reversible processes , and have left out of consideration the effect of such things as friction , electrical resistance , and so on , which destroy the reversibility of any process in which they a part .
If , however , as we have done in this paper , we take the view that the properties of matter in motion , as considered in abstract dynamics\mdash ; when all the DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL IENA .
processes are reversible\mdash ; are sufficient ccotlnt for physical phenomenon , the ] ] we must show how to explain irreversible processes the of of which are reyersible .
It would not be sufficient to ) these versible eects by means of ordinary dynamical systems ith fi.iction , as fricLion itself on this view to be ] by means of the action of fi.ictionless systems .
If every physical phellomenon be explained by of fiictionless dynamical systenoe , each of which is reversible , then it follows that , if we could only control the phenomenon in all its details , it would be revel.sible , so that the irreversibility of system is due to the limitation of our powers of .
lt is because we only possess the power of dealing with molecules and not , while the reyersal of these ocesses would require us to be to verse the motion of each individual molecule .
This was pointed out by , who showed that an army of his " " demons\ldquo ; would be able to prevent the dissipation of energy .
Our want of power of ] with very minute portions of matter imposes one kind of limitation on our control of physical another limitation to our power of interpreting them is caused by time which sensationls 1 , causing any phenomenon which consists of events following one another with great rapidity to present a blurred appearance , so that what we perceive at any moment is not what is happening at that molnent , but merely an average ffect , which may be quite unlike the effect at any particular instant .
In consequence of the finiteness of the time taken by our senses to act we are ble of sepal.atin two which happen within a very short interval of each other , just as the finiteness of the wave-length of light prevents us two points which very close together .
Thus , if we observe any effect , we cannot tell our senses there it represents a steady state of thirgs or state which is rapidly changing , and whose mean what we actually observe .
Thus we at liberty , if it is more convenient the purposes of explanation , to look upon effect as the of a serles of othel rapidly changing effects .
Let us consider the case of a sysem whose motion is such , in order to represent it , " " frictional ternls\ldquo ; to be introduced .
Let us first assnme .
that the motion represented at each instant by the equations with these terms , and that these equations are not equations which clre only true on .
Let us assume that any phenomenoll is capable of explanation by the prlnciple of dynamics .
Then , from our point of view , we shall have explained the phenomenon when we have found a frictionless system whose motion would the phenomenon .
It might at first sight appear as if we could explain the frictional terms in the equations of motion as from the of othel systems with the original system , just as in the first part of the Phil. we explained the " " posl itional\ldquo ; forces due to change , the of system connected with the original ystem .
Let us suppose for a moment this is ibl , if be the kinetic energy of the original systenl , that of the ) ry system wlJose motion is to ) lain the frictional forces , then we have , by LAGRANGE 's equation , external force of type ; thus the term must be equal to the " " frictional term " " which is proportional to .
For this to be the case , it is evident that must involve .
The momentum of the system is , however , .
This momentum must , however , be the same as that given by the ordinary expression in Rigid Dynamics , viz. , .
If these two expressions , however , are identical , must vanish for all values of , that is , cannot involve , which is inconsistent with the condition necessary in order that the motion of the subsidiary system should give rise to the " " frictional\ldquo ; terms .
Hence we conclude that the frictional terms cannot be explained by supposing that any subsidiary system with a finite number of degrees of freedom is in connection with the original system .
If we investigate the case of a vibrating piston in connection with an unlimited volume of air , we shall find that the waves starting from the piston dissipate its energy just as if it were resisted by a frictional force proportional to its velocity ; this , however , is only the case when the medium surrounding the piston is unlimited ; when it is bounded by fixed obstacles the waves originated by the piston get reflected from the boundary , and thus the energy which went from the piston to the air gets back again from the to the piston .
Thus the frictional terms cannot be explained by the dissipation of the energy by waves starting from the system and propagated through a medium surrounding it , for in this case it would be possible for energy to flow from the subsidiary into the original system , while , if the frictional terms are to be explained by a subsidiary system in connection with the original one , the connection must be such that energy can flow from the original into the subsidiary system , but not from the subsidiary into the original .
Hence we conclude that the equations of motion , with frictional terms in , represent the average motion of the system , but not the motion at any particular instant .
Thus , to take an ample , let us suppose that we have a body moving rapidly through a gas ; then , slnce the body loses by its impacts with the molecules of a gas more momentum than it gains from them , ib will be constantly losing momentum , and this might on average be represented by the introduction of a term expressing a resistance varylng as some power of the velocity ; but the equations of motion , with this .
term in , would not be true at any instant , neither when the body was striking a molecule of the gas , nor when it was moving freely and not in collision with any of the molecules .
Again , if we take the resistance to motion in a gas which arises from its own viscosity , the kinetic theory of gases shows that the equations of motion DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
of the gas , with a term included expressing a resistance to the velocity , are not true at any particular instant , but only when the average is taken over a time which is large compared with the time a molecule takes to traverse its own free path .
The irreversible effects which have the closest connection with the phenomena we have been considering in this paper are those of electrical resistance , and we shall now go on to consider the application of dynamical principles to phenomena of this type .
In accordance with what we have already stated , we regard the ordinary electrical equations containing the terms hich express the effects of the resistance as equations which only apply to the average state of the system , the being taken over a time which is too small to allow us to perceive the changes taking place inside it ; about these changes the ordinary equations give us no information .
It is evident from this point of view that we cannot hope to deduce directly the ordinary electrical equations from these dynamical equations , which are always true , and which , if we could solve them , would describe the whole history of the electrical tion .
We should expect the electrical equations to be obtained from the dynamical ones by some process of averaging .
If this view is right , the passage of a " " steady\ldquo ; current is not , strictly speaking , steady phenomenon ; but only one in which the average effect , taken over some very small time , is steady .
We must therefore take a view of the electric current somewhat different from that taken .
In order to explain this view , let us begin by considering a case which is plainly discontinuous , but which , when the changes succeed each other sufficiently rapidly , will produce the same effect as a steady current .
The case is that of the passage of electricity through a tube containing gas at a low pressure .
In this case the electric force inside the tube increases until it gets too great for the electric strength of the gas , the field then breaks down , and for a moment the electric force either vanishes or is very much diminished , or , what is the same thing , a quantity of electricity passes from the one terminal to the other ; after this the force increases until it gets great enough to again overcome the electric strength of the gas , when discharge again takes place .
The constant succession of such discharges produces the same effect as a current flowing through a metallic conductor .
In the case of metallic conductors we may suppose that very much the same kind of thing goes on , only that now the electric field is dissipated ) the breaking up of molecular aggregations which split up independently of the electric field .
Let us imagine a conductor placed in the electric field , and suppose that at first induction occurs in it as well as in the surrounding dielectric : then each unit of volume of the conductor there is a certain amount of energy .
If the molecules or the atoms the molecules can move so that this energy diminishes , they will do so ; in general , however , we should expect the existing between the atoms in the molectlle to be so large that no very extensive re-arrangement of the atoms or molecules 111 the way suggested by the electric forces would take place unless the electric field were excessively strong .
If , however , the molecules or the gregations of molecules were to break up independently of the electric field , then these inter-atomic or inter-molecular forces would be absent , and the atoms or molecules would be free to arrange them- selves so as to diminish the potential energy due to the electric field .
This diminution in the electrical energy would be equivalent to a discharge of the electric field , partial or total , according the energy is only partially or exhausted .
According to this view , the electric current is a discontinuous phenomenon , though there need not be anything corresponding to a definite period , as the field may not be simultaneously discharged at all points .
We may suppose that much the same kind of thing occurs in electrolytes , and in this case the view has much in common with the WILLIAMSONhypothesis .
According to this view the electrolyte is not decomposed by the electric field , the function of the electric forces being merely to direct the motion of the components of the molecules dissociated by other means .
According to our view it is the re-arrangement of components of dissociated molecules or groups of molecules which produces the current .
This view is in accordance with FARADAy'S that induction always precedes conduction .
If , as in the case of the electric discharge through permanent gases , the electric were strong enough to separate the molecules without any independent dissociation , we should expect the connecting the current with the electromotive force to be different from the law conecting the same quantities when the electromotive force is too weak to decompose the molecule .
There seems to be evidence for such a difference , for QUINCKE* has shown that when the E.M.F. is very large the current through badly conducting liquids , such as olive oil or benzene , does not obey OHM'S Law , while the experiments of Mr. NEWALL and myself have shown that when the E.M.F. is small , not more than a few hundred volts per centimetre , the current does obey OHM'S Law .
We shall now proceed to endeavour to represent the theory symbolically .
To fix our ideas , let us consider the case of an air-condenser whose armatures are connected with the poles of a battery whose E.M.F. is greater than the air-space can stand : then , as soon as the artnatures are connected to the poles of the battery , there is an electric displacement across the air-space in the direction of the .
; then the air breaks down , and there is the passage of a quantity of electricity\mdash ; equal per unit area to the displacement across the unit area\mdash ; from one armature to the other , and then the disappearance of the displacement .
Now , whether we take the ordinary two-fluid theory , or MAXWELL'S displacement theory , the result is the same ; let us take the two-fluid theory first\mdash ; then the displacements count for nothing , and we have only to consider the passage of the electricity across the air-space .
Let us next take MAXWELL'S theory\mdash ; the effect of the disappearance of the displacement is equal and opposite to that of the passage of the electricity across the air-space\mdash ; so that we are left with the effect of the establishment of the displacement , which is the same as that of the passage of the electricity , and the two theories lead to identical results ; and we may conclude that when a field , such that the displacement across unit area * Annalen , ' vol. 28 , p. 529 .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
is , is established , and then breaks down by reason of the re-arrangement of the dielectric , the whole effect is the same as if a quantity of electricity equal to passed through each unit area of the dielectric .
Let us suppose that in the expression for the electrical part of \mdash ; V for unit volume of a conductor through which the electrical displacements are , in addition to the usual term where , are the components of the electrical momentum parallel to the of , respectiyely , there is the term ; then LAGRANGE'S give external electromotive force tending to increase say .
Now , in the case of a conductor , is changing very rapidly , while the other terms in this equation only change gradually .
Let us then take the mean over unit tim of each side of the equation , then we have , ( 79 ) where a bar placed over a symbol denotes the mean value of that symbol , and we suppose that does not change quickly with the time .
Now let us suppose , as before , that the polarisation is continually being broken down and renewed ; let it break down times a second , and ] the mean value of.f over one of these intervals of of second be and the maximum value be : the breaking down of the field each time is equivalent to the ssage of units .
electricity across unit area at right angles to the axis of .
Since the field breaks down times a second , it is equivalent to the passage of ?
across this unit section in unit time , or , if be the component of currents parallel to the axis of Now ; hence , from equation ( 79 ) , , ( 80 ) the electrical equation if the specific resistance of the substance equals this expression for the specific resistance we see that if remains constant , or nearly constant , the resistance will vary inversely as ) is , the resistance will be inversely proportional to the number of discharges in unit time .
Now , since the are caused by the breaking up of the molecular aggregations , the numbel of discharge .es in unit time will be greater , the greater the ease with which the regations break up .
The formation and breaking up of these molecular regations in a solid would play in it very much the same part as that played by the collision between the molecules in a gas .
But , the greater the number of collisions in unit time , the greater the rapidity with which inequalities in the kinetic energy , momentum , \amp ; c. , in the different parts of a gas disappear , so that we may conclude that , the greater the ease with which molecular aggregations are broken up in a solid , the more will the inequalities in the kinetic energy disappear , that is , the better conductor of heat the solid will be .
the expression for the resistance of a solid conductor contains one term which is inversely proportional to the conductivity for heat of the substance .
Hence we can understand why metals which are good conductors of electricity are also good conductors of heat .
The term , which we have introduced into the expression for of unit volume of the conductor , corresponds to the term in expression for the potential energy of unit volume of a dielectric in which the electric displacement is .
Thus we may look on as equal to , where is the specific ductive capacity of the conductor .
The rapid way the resistance increases with the temperature for metals shows that of the term the great part must in this case be due to the kinetic energy .
Let us suppose that in the kinetic energy we have the term , where is proportional to the absolute temperature , and in the potential energy the term ; YNAMICAL P TO PHYSICAL NOMENA .
then and the specific resistance Now will probably depend on the temperature , will probably in most increase as it increases , as it seems likely the tions will ) more easily at high than at low temperatures .
Thus there are two ences whid ) , when the temperature increases , oppose each other in the effect they produce ) the resistance .
On the one hand there is a tendency for the resistance to increase in consequence of the greater change in the value of \mdash ; V produced by a given electric displacement , and on the other hand there is a tendency for the conductivity to increase in consequence of t , he molecular aggregations breaking up with greater ease , and so increasing the number of discharges which take place in time .
In the case of metals the first effect seems to be the most important , as the resistance of these substances increases with the temperature .
In the case of electrolytes the second seems the most important , as the conductivity of these substances increases with the temperature .
Anything which increases the complexity of the molecular ations will increase the importance of the second effect relatively to the first , hence we can understand why it is that alloys have so much smaller temperature coefficients than pure metals , as we should expect the molecular tions to be more complex in alloys than in pure metals , and therefore the second effect , which tends to make the resistance diminish as the temperature increases , is relatively more important .
It is evident that , if the view which we have taken of the electric be correct , the specific inductive capacity of metals must alter more quickly with the temperature than the specific inductiye capacities of dielectrics , as experiment has shown that these vary only slowly with the temperature .
The consideration of the term , which occurs in , leads to many interesting results , of proceed to give one or examples .
If we take the axis of parallel to the electric displacement , and write for where is the specific esistance , we may write this term as Now the experiments of Sir W. THOMSON and Mr. TOMLINSON show that the resistance of metals is affected by strain , so that must be ) function the .
PROFE@SOR J. J. THOMSON ON SOME APPLICATIONS Let us suppose that is a strain coordinate ; then it follows , by LAGRANGE'S equations , that there is a force due to this term , tending to increase , equal to Since , according to our view , changes very rapidly , we must find the mean value of this term , that is , we must find the value of If the electric field breaks down and gets ] ished n times in a second , this will equal Now Let where , as before , is the maximum value off , and is a quantity which will depend upon the way reaches its maximum ; then where is the current through unit area of the section of the conductor .
Then the average force tending to increase equals .
( 81 ) If neither nor depend upon , then this equals .
( 82 ) rfhus , if the specific resistance increases with the strain , there will be a tendency to diminish that strain when a current traverses the conductor .
DYNAMICAL PRINCIPLES TO PHYSICAL PHENOMENA .
We can apply precisely the same method to an other physical effect which influences the resistance .
Suppose that an alteration in the configuration Sp alters the resistance ; then , when the current passes through the conductor , there will be a force , tending to increase , equal to . . . . . .
( 83 ) Let us now consider the effect which this term in the expression for \mdash ; V will produce on the chemical phenomena which we discussed in the earlier part of this paper .
The alteration in \mdash ; due to this term is or Now , if the specific resistance depends , as we know it does to a very large extent in the case of liquids , on the substances dissolved in them , the chemical equilibrium will be affected by the passage of an electric current through them .
Let us first take the case of solution ; then , when we were considering that subject , we showed that , if were increased by \mdash ; Sw , the change S in the temperature , which would produce the same effect as that produced by this change in , is given by the equation where is the mass of the solution , and the amount of heat absorbed when one gramme of the salt dissolves at constant temperature .
Applying this formula to our case , we have ( 84 ) so that , if the specific resistance of the solution depends the amount of salt dissolved , then , if we make a current pass through a saturated solution , it will either absorb or deposit salt ; if the specific resistance increases as the salt dissolves , it will deposit salt ; if the resistance diminishes , it will absorb it .
In the experlment , it would be well to use alternating currents to avoid any difficulty which might from the substances set free by electrolysis .
Again , if we have dilute solutions of any number of substances , and if the resistance of the solution depends upon the relative proportion of these substances , then the PRINCIPLLS TO PHYSI A.L PflLNOMENA .
orlion of these when there is equilibrium will be altered by passing an electric current through the .
Thus the coefficient of reaction will be altered , we from equation ( 56 ) that the alteration is given by the equation , ( 85 ) where the the that used on lnls , if the specific increases as any reaction goes on , the passage of an electric current through the solution will tend to stop that reaction .

