Plate 1 .
Philo : Trans : No. 412 LL II .
An Examination of Monsieur Perault 's newinvented Axis in Peritrochio , said to be entirely void of Friction : With an Experiment to confirm the Reasoning made upon an Axis in Peritrochio first used in Mons. Perault 's Manner , then in the common Way , by J. T. Desaguliers , L L. D. AS the Recommendation and Contrivance of a Person , who is considerable in mechanical Performances , is a great Inducement for others to make use of a new Machine , which he affirms to have answered , in Practice , beyond any other used for the same Purpose ; so I thought it wou 'd be an Advantage to those who have Occasion for Machines , to show the Imperfection of such an Engine , when the Author of it has been mistaken ; thereby to prevent needless Expense and Disappointment , in erecting and trying such kind of Machines .
Monsieur Perault 's Account of his Engine is as follows : ` ` In Imitation of the ( modern ) Crane , I have invented two Engines for raising Weights .
The first is made of that Organ which is the most advantageous of any in Mechanicks , for facilitating Motion ; because itis free from that Inconveniency which we meet with in all others ; namely , the Friction of the Parts of the Machine , which renders their Motion more difficult .
This Organ is the Roller , which Aristotle prefers to all other Organs , because all the others , as Wheels , Capstanes , and Pullies , must necessarily rub in some of their Parts .
But the Difficulty was to apply the Roller to an Engine that raises Weights , its Use having only been hitherto to cause them to roll on an horizontal Plane .
The Engine which I propose has a Base AA B , ( Plate I. Fig. 1 .
) something like the Crane : This Base has in its upper Part the horizontal Pieces B , which clasps an upright Shaft C O , supported under its Pivot C , on which the whole Engine moves in the same manner as the Crane , when the Weight is to be lowered .
This Shaft supports on its Top a cross Piece D D , to which are fastened the Ropes E E , which wrap round the Barrel , Axel , or Roller F , which has another Rope G , that also wraps or winds round one of its Ends .
This last Rope is that which raises the Weight .
At the other End of the Axel there is a great wooden Wheel like a Pulley H H , about which is wound a long Rope N. To work this Engine , one must pull the long Rope N , which causing the great Wheel to turn , does also carry round the Axel or Barrel , which is made fast to it .
This Axel , as it turns round , causes the Ropes EE to wind about it , and thereby the Axel and the Wheel rise , whilst the Rope F , to which the Weight is fastened , does also wind itself up upon the Axel the contrary Way ; and this double winding up of the Ropes makes both the Burden and the Axel and Wheel to rise at the same Time .
Now it is evident , that all this Rise is performed without the Friction of any Part , and consequently , the whole Power which draws the Rope N , is employed without any Hindrance ; which cannot be in other Engines .
It may be objected that the Power which acts at N , must , besides the Weight , raise also the Axel and great Wheel , and that their Weight is one of those Obstacles which Aristotle says all Engines are liable to ; and that this Obstacle is equivalent to the Friction which is in other Organs .
But it may be answered , That Friction is an Obstacle wholly unavoidable in all other Organs ; but that it is easy to remedy the Obstacles of this , which is done by Means of the heavy Body M , taken equal in Weight to the great Wheel and Axel , which it sustains by Means of the Rope I I , which running over the Pullies L L , is fixed to the Ring or Collar K , that goes round the Axel F. For the Axel and the Wheel being counterpoised by this Weight , the Power which acts by drawing the long Rope N , acts for raising the Weight only .
The Experiment which was made with this Engine has confirmed the Truth of this Problem , by comparing its Effects with those of a Crane , in which the Proportion of the Bigness of the Axel to the Circumference of the Wheel , was the same as in my Machine : For it happened that in the Crane , a Weight of One hanging at a Rope going about the Wheel , drew up a Weight of Seven , when it had one Half added to it to make it preponderate , or give Motion to the Power : And when the Weight to be raised , and the Weight which served as a Power , were proportionably increased , there was also a Necessity to increase the additional Weight , which made the Power preponderate , in the same Proportion : So that as it was required to add one Half to the Power when the Weight was Seven ; the Addition to the Power became One for a Fourteen Pound Weight , Two for a Twenty-eight Pound , Four for a Fifty-six Pound , and so on ; because the Resistance from Friction increases nearly in the same Proportion that the Weights are increased .
But this did not happen to my Engine , in which one Quarter was always sufficient for the Draught ( or to make the Power preponderate ) not only when the Weight was Seven , but also when it was Fourteen Pound , Twenty-eight Pound , Fifty-six Pound , &amp;c. which evidently shows , that this Engine acts without Friction .
' ' Thus far Mons. Perault .
But however plausible this Description may appear , a little Attention will show , that if this new Engine had no Friction , yet it is more inconvenient than an Axis in Peritrochio with the same Proportions ; and likewise that it has more Friction than the same Machine in the common Use .
AC E , ( Fig. 2 .
) is a common Axis in Peritrochio , which has the Wheel AE five Times bigger in Diameter than the Axel ; so that A C , the Radius of the Wheel ( which is the Distance of the Power ) is to CB the Radius of the Axel ( the Distance of the Weight ) as 5 to 1 : Consequently One ( for Example one Ounce , as in our Experiment ) will keep five in AEquilibrio .
Now though the Friction of the Gudgeon at C is unavoidable , yet it may be diminished by diminishing the Diameter of the Gudgeon , provided it remains strong enough to sustain the Machine and its Burden .
Here one Penny-weight , or ~ of the Power added to it , makes it preponderate , and give the Machine Motion with a due Velocity .
Now this very Engine made use of in Mons. Perault 's Way , does so alter the Distances of the Weight and Power , that instead of One for our Power , we must have Two and a half to keep the very same Weight Five , in AEquilibrio , as may appear by a Sight of the third Figure , where , since in the Action of the Machine , when we pull the Rope P A , we make the Axel DB to wind itself up upon the Rope H D , it is evident that D is now become the Center of Motion , DB ( the whole Thickness of the Axis ) the Distance of the Weight = 2 ; and the Distance of the Power is reduced to AD= 4 .
So that if two Men , having been employed in the common Way to raise Weights equal to the Strength of ten Men , an Engineer should alter the Manner of working , and fit up the Axis in Peritrochio in Mons. Perault 's Way , instead of gaining an Advantage , he must call in three more Men to perform the Work .
If it be answered , that what is lost in Strength , will be gained in Time , it may not only be said , that one cannot always call in more Help on the sudden , but that even then , tho ' we should not call this an Inconveniency , yet there will be still more Friction in this than in the common Method ; for the Roller or Axel will find a Difficulty to wind on the Ropes , because they are not perfectly pliable , and the less so , the greater the Weight is that stretches them .
This , together with the Friction of the Collar of the Rope of the Counterpoise to the Engine , makes the Hindrance greater than in the common Way .
For it appears by Experiment , that when the Power is become equal to 2 1/ 2 to keep the Weight 5 in AEquilibrio , there must be added 1/ 5 ( here 4 Penny-weight ) to put the Power in Motion .
And to show that this Friction of the Ropes is not always the same as Mons. Perault supposes it ; when P ( or the Power ) is made only one Ounce , and W ( or the Weight ) two Ounces , then to make the Power preponderate , only 2 Penny-weight and 18 Grains was sufficient .
N. B. When P is =2 1/ 2 , and W= 5 , the additional Weight marked 1/ 5 was 4 Penny-weight and 2 Grains .
It is plain from this , that Mons. Perault 's Experiments were very inaccurately made , and therefore not to be depended upon .

