Description of the Mineral Basin in the Counties of Monmouth , Glamorgan , Brecon , Carmarthen , and Pembroke .
By Mr. Edward Martin .
Communicated by the Right Hon. C. F. Greville , F.R.S. Read May 22 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 342 .
] The basin , which is here described by Mr. Martin , is delineated in a map annexed to the paper ; it is formed of limestone , and contains all the strata of coal and iron ore in South Wales : it is upwards of 100 miles in length ; and its average breadth in the counties of Monmouth , Glamorgan , Carmarthen , and part of Brecon , is from 18 to 20 miles ; but in Pembrokeshire its breadth is only from 3 to 5 miles .
On the northern half of the basin the strata rise gradually northward ; on the south side they rise southward , except at the east end , where they rise eastward .
The deepest part of the basin is between Neath , in Glamorganshire , and Llanelly in Carmarthenshire , where the depth of the principal strata of coal and iron ore is from 600 to 700 fathoms ; whereas in Pembrokeshire , none of the strata lie above 80 or 100 fathoms deep .
The strata of coal at the east end of the basin and on the north side , are chiefly of a cokeing quality ; but they alter , towards St. Bride 's Bay , to what is called stone coal : on the south side of the basin the strata are principally of a bituminous or binding quality .
In this mineral basin there are 12 veins , or strata of coal , from 3 to 9 feet thick ; and 11 others , from 18 inches to 3 feet , making in all 95 feet , besides a number of smaller veins , from 6 to 18 inches in thickness .
There are in these strata many faults or irregularities , by which the due range of the strata is thrown out of course .
These faults are not confined to the edges of the strata , but run through the interior of the basin generally , in a north and south direction , and often throw the whole of the strata , for hundreds of acres together , 40 , 60 , 80 , or 100 fathoms up or down .
There is , however , seldom any superficial appearance that indicates a disjunction ; for the greatest faults frequently lie under even surfaces .
A very considerable fault is observable at Crib-bath , where the beds , or strata of the limestone , stand erect .
Another fault of great magnitude lies between Ystradvellte and Penderryn , where all the strata , and the north side of the basin , are moved many hundred yards southward .
The limestone appears at the surface , all along the boundary line , in the counties of Monmouth , Glamorgan , Carmarthen , and Brecon ; and no doubt can be entertained that it ranges from Newton , across Swansea Bay , to the Mumbles , and from Canmaddock Hill , across Carmarthen Bay , to Langam Tenby .
In Pembrokeshire it appears at the surface only in some particular spots ; yet it certainly forms an under-ground connexion from one spot to the other .
Glamorganshire possesses by far the greatest portion of coal and iron ore ; Monmouthshire is the next in point of quantity ; then Carmarthenshire ; then Pembrokeshire ; and lastly Brecknockshire , which possesses the least .

