II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull of the Ostrich Tribe .
" By WILLIA KITCHEN PARIKER , Esq. Communicated by Prof. T. H. HUXLEY .
Received February 23 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) The earliest condition of the struthious skull described by the author is that of a " pullus " of the African species , at about the end of the first third of the period of incubation .
There are two individuals in this stage 11 from the stores of the I-unterian Iluseurm ; and two others also , twice as perfect , from the same source ; of these , one was more advanced than the other .
Next to these , in point of growth , is a young Freclded Emu ( Dromceus irroratus , Scl .
) ; this wanted one week of the full period .
The young of the Nandu ( Rhea ) were all ready for hatching , but died in the process : these chicks had the long-billed kind ( R. macrorhyncha , Scl .
) for their sire ; but their danm was of the ordinary kind , viz. R. americana .
Dr. Bennett 's beautiful Cassowaries , the " nMooruks , " have yielded two ripe pulli ; these were both hatched alive at the Society 's Gardens .
The author has been able to give the condition of the Emu 's skull at six weeks old , also at two months , at half a year , and likewise in the adult state .
The skull of the adult Dinornis is also described ; and the so-called Dinornis casuarinus is shown to be a gigantic Porphyrine Rail .
The writer is indebted to M. Blanchard 's work ( L'Organisation du Regne Animal ) for a knowledge of the condition of the skull of the immature Apteryx .
The Tinamous ( Tinamus robustus and T. variegatus ) were both old birds ; but their skulls are rich in persistent sutures , and in bones which , although common amongst the cold-blooded classes , are rare enough amongst birds .
Moreover naturalists have misplaced the Tinamous , by putting them with the " Gallinaceme .
" In this paper the bones formed in membrane merely , and those formed by the metamorphosis of true or hyaline cartilage are carefully distinguished ; moreover the relation of the parts is displayed by sections made in various directions .
The figures are nearly all magnified , and they are coloured in a maplike manner , so as to display , by an exaggeration of the natural tints , the histological condition of the various parts of the skull and face at each stage .
' The nomenclature of the parts is , on the whole , in harmony with that adopted by Professor Huxley in his recent work on Comparative Anatomy ; but there are several new terms t , for which the author is responsible ; they were imperatively called for , or they would not have been coined , and they are as much like the old human-anatomy names as possible .
In this paper it is shown that the Ostriches are , on the whole , inferior to Birds generally , and yet that they come nearer to the Mammalia than the higher types ; they are compared to the Cartilaginous Fishes , to the Amphibious Reptiles , and to the Marsupial and Monotrematous Mammalia .
After a minute description of the struthious type of skull , an " ApThe young African ostriches were lent to me by the Council of the College , through the intercession of my kind friend Mr. W. H. Flower , the Conservator of the Museum .
Most of my specimens of the other kinds I owe to Dr. Sclater and Mr. Bartlett ; they came from the Gardens of the Zoological Society.-W .
K. P. t Most of these terms have already appeared in print in the author 's paper on the " Gallinacee and Tinamous " ( Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. v. , 1864 ) .
113 pendix " is given ; and here the author takes occasion to describe much earlier stages of the skull in typical birds , viz. in the Crows .
The primordial parts of the facial arches are carefully compared , beginning at the lowest Fishes , and ascending to the Mammalia ; the pattern and labit of growth of the facial structures in the higher classes is shown to be adumbrated by the condition of these parts in the Lamprey ( Petromyzon ) .
The essential independence of the two arches in front of the mouth is asserted , and their low type of development is shown in the non-segmentation of the parts that should answer to the free post-stomal rays , the mandible , and the hyoid arch .
A survey is also made of the system of secondary bones-bones which have no preexistent hyaline cartilage as their basis ; and these are shown to pass insensibly into dermal plates : the only distinction that can be made , viz. into dermal , subcutaneous , and aponeurotic bones , is there explained to be merely useful , but not to have anything embryologically essential in it .

