]\gt ; of Sioped Lenses to Telescopes of Unequal gmfying J Directions .
By LORD RAYLEIGH , O.M. , Pres. Received May 20 , \mdash ; Read Jmlc 4 ) The present paper consists of two parts to a xCeIlt independent .
The reader who does not care to follow the details of calculation take the results relative to unsymmetrical erralion for .
The subject of the second part is somewhat larger than title .
It treats of the advantage which often attends a rrnificatio unequal in dillerent directions and of the methods available for ( it .
is the method of the sloped object-lens .
Such in ) erration .
The intention of the first part is how this may be ised so as to become Before proceeding to actual calculations of the } ] !
a sloped lens , it may be well to consider bl.iefly the general ) pencil of lays affected with unsymmetrical aberration .
The axis of the pencil as axis 01 of the wave-sulface , to which all rays normal , ) ' .
( 1 ) The principal focal .
In the case of symmetry about the axis , and I ( 'oellicients of the telYns of the third .
The ) Jlds upon terms of the fourth } in and , and PVC11 auish in the for the asses of scopes 1 } suitable tures .
eory o of bloped lenses it is nec.esbaIy to tain the ) iJlS ( } ) assume a of the plane .
The , ( 2 ) of ' order ) onlitCetl .
I is nd ] ) ocal l On the of Sloped Lenses , etc. The equation of the normal at the point is , ( 5 ) and its intersection with the plane occurs at the point determined approximately by , ( 6 ) terms of the third order being omitted .
According to geometrical optics , the thickness of the of a luminous line ( parallel to y ) at the primary focus is determined by the extreme value of , and for good definition it is necessary to reduce this thickness as much as ossible .
To this end it is necessary in eneral that both and be small .
We will now examine more closely the character of the at the primary focus in the case of pencil originally of circular section .
Unless , the second term in the value of in ( 6 ) may be neglected .
The rays proceeding from the circle intersect the plane in the parabola ; and the various parabolas to different values of differ from one another only in being shifted the axis of .
To find out how much of the parabolic arcs is included , we observe that for any iven value of the value of is greatest when .
Hence the rays in the secondary plane give the remainder of the boundary of the .
Its equation , formed from ( 6 ) after putting , is , ( S ) and represents a paraOola touching the axis of at .
The whole of the } is included between this parabola and the parabola of form ( 7 ) corresponding to the maximum value of The width of the when is , and vanushes when hen there is no aberration for rays in the imary plane .
In this case the two parabolic boundaries coincide , and the is reduced to a linear arc .
If , furthel , this arc ) ecomes straight , and then the image of a short luminous line ( parallel to y ) is perfect to this order of ) oximation at the ) rilnary focus .
In general , if , the parabola ( s ) to the straight line ; that is to say , the rays which start in the fary plane re1nain in that plane .
Lord Rayleigh .
[ May 20 , We will now consider the imagc formed at the secondary focus .
Putting in ( 5 ) , we obtain If , the secondary focal line is formed ) ) erration , but not otherwise .
In general , the curve traced out by the rays for which , is ( 10 ) in the form of a ( of 8 symmetrical with resl ) to both axes .
The rays either in the primary or in the secondary ) lane pass ] the axis of , the thickness of the image ) , duc the for which Or if in order to find the intersection of the the plane we put in ( 5 ) , we have approximately showing that is constant only when The calculation of aberration for in the plane is carried out in the paper cited for the case of a thin ] a fin ite If the curvature of the first surface ) ] and of \ldquo ; and if be the lefractive index , the focal in the is iven by , ( 11 ) and the condition that there shall be no ab is the distance of the obliquity of the incident lay , ) ' of refractc-d , ( .
, and Alesult , accordant with ( 12 ) , ) ) ] is small , was given in another by Mr. in Notices , ' Ap. , lf the incident lays be parallel , .
, condilion fi.eedom from aberration is .
( 13 ) nbove is from my ; ' Scientific ' vol. 1 , p. 441 , and be inscrt / ' as factor in the ii tellll ) ; ] ) .
for ( 7 ) read ( 8 ) , line 1908 .
] On the of Sloped Lenses , etc. As appears from ( 11 ) , opposite signs for and indicate that both surfaces are convex .
If , so that ( 13 ) gives , in this case , .
( 14 ) Thus , if , the aberration vanishes for small obliquities when .
This means a double convex lens , the curvature of the hind surface being one-ninth of that of the front surface .
If , that is , if the lens be plallo-convex with curvature turned towards the parallel rays , ' or Returning to finite obliquity , we see from ( 13 ) that be the index and obliquity of the lens , it is possible so to choose its form that the aberration shall vanish .
If the form be plano-convex , the condition of no aberration is , ( 1C ) or Here , and the ratio of the two cosines increases with obliquity from unity tc infinite . .
Hence if , there can be no freedom from aberration at any allgle .
When , the abel'ration vanishes , as we have seen , when less than , the aberration vanishes at some finite angle .
For example , if , this occnr when In many cases the aberration of rays in the secondary plane is quite as important as that in the primary plane .
In my former paper I gave a result applicable to a plano-convex lens , on the curved face of which parallel l falls .
It was found that the secondary aberration vanished when the relation between obliquity and refractive index was such Ghat .
( 17 ) For values of this gives the same index as before ( 15 ) , inasmuch as .
I that for a plano-convex lens of index neither kind of aberration is ) at nloderate slopes .
no or recollection of the method by was and wishing to co1lfirm and extend it , I have lately nndertaken CJation , still limiting myself : however , to ineidcnC rays .
For plicity , the lens lna be supposed to colne to a sharp circular Lord ayleigh .
[ May 20 , plane that of .
The ntrG of circle is the the xis of the xis of lens .
parallel to the plane an angle with ; so that ( I ) is fl of incidence which ) eets the of lcn at its central point .
is respect to plane .
It will to consider the course of the which rneet the lens close to its the equation / , if be the diameter .
111 rder to out the calculation , we general formulae direction-cosines of the refracted with those of the in nnd nornlal to the face .
take lcngths the cGed rays proportional to the indices of the medin1u avel , and drop upon the the law of action t lines are eqnal and parallel , ( the projection of on axis is equal to ) on the same if , j/ I- , the ' of refracted ray , , 9 , of the nornlal in the ction from the in which is incident , of incidence and ction , and nilar equations .
Hellae .
( 18 ) Also ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) For onr purpose thele no to he ) , and or brevity .
will sllp it lllside nnity and 11lsi it eqnal iu ] ' ( 22 ) tics , .
1908 .
] On the of Sloped Lenses , etc. For the first refraction at the point , we have ; and if be the which the normal to the first SUl.face at the of the lens makes with the axis , ; so that , ( 23 ) and In like lmanner if be the direction-cosines of the twice refracted ray , those of the second normal , we may take if be respectively the angles of incidence and refraction at the second surface .
Here ( 26 ) between ( 23 ) and ( 25 ) , we orret The of the ray after through the lens is The aberration in the secondary plane on is most simply investigated by inquiring where the ray ( 27 ) meets the primary plane For the co-ordinates of the point of intersection , Iu interl)reting ( , ( 29 ) we must renelnber that is now neas parallel to the axis of the lens and not , as in the preliminary discussion , the ) incipal ray .
Freedom from aberration requires that the line determined by varying and in ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) should be perpendicular to he principal ray , or should be constant .
And Lord Rayleigh .
[ May 20 , Before further it may be well to compare ( 30 ) with known results when the aberration is ected .
For a first approximation we may identify with and , and also and ) and respectively .
Thus .
( 31 ) , if be the radii of the surfaces , ve .
; ( 32 ) and thence , from ( 30 ) , , ( 33 ) the usual formula for the secondary focal is such that signs of and 9 are opposite tho case of convex lens .
We have now to proceed to a second approximarion what conditions ( 30 ) is independent of the particular ) .
In the umerator it is sufhcient to letain first power of , so hat we may take equal nnily ; but in the d ] is lready a small quantity of the first order , must r the of tho seconld order in .
It is not neccssa ] ] , to di , ) the of and the thentselves .
The to corrections to the } ) nate values of ) in ( 31 ) .
For itself we have , from ( 24 ) , ; and - that like manner , for in ( 2C ) , so that ; ' enCP ( cus ) ( 35 ) , if we write ; ( 36 ) 1908 .
] On the Aberration of Sloped Lenses , etc. and in which .
and the condition of no abel.ration is .
( 39 ) Since are inversely proportional to and , we vrite ( in the fornl where .
( 41 ) If , so that the cond surface is flat , we have as the special form of ( 40 ) ; or in the case where the sa1ne condition as that ( 15 ) required to give zero aberration in the plane for small ) liquities .
In the case of finite obliquities we may write ( 42 ) in terms of , ( 44 ) or if we take the square of both sides of the equation , Of the left-hand side may be equated to on the we have ; so found ( see ( 17 ) ) .
In , which we may also write the VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. Lord [ May 20 , , ( 46 ) we mnst ) in mind that it covers bbnry equation ( 44 ) , but the equation derived fro1n ( 44 ) ] ) si of one of the nlenbers .
instance , if we ) in ( 46 ) , ) , or ; but on .
back we ee that satisfy , not ( 44 ) , but The transition occurs , } } ivcs , or .
For smaller valncs 1IO solution of .
Onwards from this point , tses , ) .
] example , when hence ution of colltinnes until , or so ) this is the value suitable for a plano-convex lCnfi at ] ] obliquities .
After of is eded , is ativ c. When this poinC is ssed , beeomes osilive , a is not reached .
We infer in th case of a ( cnrved face presented to parallel rays ) nere C bc no ) ) erration unless lies betwcen the rathel narrow lilnits 1 If the plano-convex lens bc so I to its ] face to the parallel rays , ; and ( 40 ) eqnircs 1 which cannot ) satisfied , since now the particular case of the ) on , let ns ) general formula ( 40 ) that fronn which we sce that , what may ) may be a of fl Ibl positc s lens is couv have the salnc S , or the lens is cf .
] , if , ( 47 ) , so the hind the ) ) We that the ) ) I eli ninated lor : I lens if .
The tiscH Iler tssible n obliquities if we leave ) Il index .
It ] ) ) ) cundi ) is luy ( 40 ) 1908 .
] On the Aberration of Sloped Lenses , etc. or whence , ( 48 ) which can be satisfied only by , since Sincc it is not possible to destroy both the primary and secondary aberrations when th angle of incidence is finite , it only relnains to consider a little further in detail one or two special cases .
lave already spoken of the plano-convex lens ; but for a more detailed tion it nay be well to form the equation for absence of pl.imary aberration analogous to ( 45 ) .
From ( 16 ) , , ( 49 ) whence , if we squa1e both sides , so that , ( 51 ) the other root excluded if .
It may be remarked that there is no distinction between here and in ( 45 ) .
The table will give an idea of the values of from and for which the plano-convex lens of variable index is free from aberration in the primary and planes respectively .
the above the curved face is supposed to be presented to the Tays .
If the lens ] ) turned the other way , , and ives an equation which cannot be satisfied .
In this case leither nary nor the secondary aljerration can be destroyed at any 1 ) 2 Lord Rayleigh .
[ May 20 , Next suppose that the lens is equi-convex , so thnt , In case ( 13 ) gives whence , or - , of which .
Also ( 40 ) we et .
It that ) vanish for an equi-convex lens , unless in tlJe extreme ( the lens produces no effect at all .
PABT II .
It is a commo ] expericnce in optical work to the ilhumination deficient when an otherwise desirable is .
Sometinles there is no remedy excel ) to ( uglnent the of source of , if this be possible .
in other } the defect may largely depend upon thelnanner in which the ] is effected .
With the usual cnlentS 1 } in the two perpendicular directions , it lnfy in one direction .
For example , in observations npon ) ferctlCC tbere is often no need to magnify , or , in direction parailel to the lines or bands. .
If , rthc ) , ) } in both directions , there llay be an unnecessary loss of discussing matter there is another to ) borne in mind .
conletimes it is not or reous 1 should point-to-point correspondence between the that a in the )ject be lted narl O This hap pens , for example , in the of A conspicuous occurs in the I connection with ] observations upon the of telescope was ubnal , in ) direction was secured } ) , as solc lens the form of a glass lod nlll .
in ' in directionh , such ils vould .
] ) ] ) -pieces , would } reduced ) ) tions possible .
ever the field oi ] is ubtally 11 nay bc in ] ) ' .
cases ) ) is de , it by the ) .
Proc. , \ldquo ; p. , ] ) , 304 .
1908 .
] On the of Sloped Lenses , etc. nification in the two directions to equality .
I had occasion to consider this problem in connection with observations upon Haidinger 's as observed with a abry and Perot apparatus .
Here the field is symmetrical about an axis , and all the advantage that magnification can give is secured though it take place only one direction .
At the same time light is usually saved by abstaining from magnifying in the second tion also .
In this way the circular rings assume an elongated elliptical form\mdash ; a transformation which in no way prejudices observation by simple inspection .
The question whether is saved , as compared with magnification , depends of course upon the aperture available in the two directions .
In a Fabry and Perot apparatus this is usually somewhat restricted .
One simple solution of the problem , available when the is homogeneous , may be found in the use of a , that is a prism so held that the emergence more nearly grazing than the incidence .
In this way we may obtain a moderate magnification in one direction combined with none at all in the second direction .
A magnification equal both directions may then be superposed with the aid of a common telescope .
This method would probably answer well in certain cases , but it has its limitations .
lforeover , the accompanying deviation of the rays a large would often be inconvenient .
If we are allowed the use of cylindrical lenses , or of lenses whose curyature though finite is different in the two planes , we may attain our object with a construction analogous to that of a common telescope .
Suppose that the eye-piece is constituted of a spherical and a contiguous cylindrical convex lens .
In one plane the power of the eye-piece is greater than in the other perpendicular plane .
Thus , if the object-glass be co1nposed of lenses only , there cannot be complete .
With the spherical lens or lenses of the lassb , mounted as usual , it is necessary to combine a cylindrical lens of comparatively feeble power , which may be either convex or cave .
All that is necessary to constitute a telescope in the full sense of the word , that is an apparatus capable of .
incident parallel rays into rent parallel , is that the usual condition connecting the focal lcngtbs of object-glass and eye-piece should be satisfied for the two principal planes taken separately .
The , powers in the two planes may thus be choscn at pleasure ; and since there is symmetry with respect to both planes the apparatus is free from the unsymmetrical aberration expressed in ( 1 ) .
When the nifying desired is considerable in both planes , there is but little for the cylindrical component of the to do , and it occurl.ed to me that it be dispensed with , provided a moderate slope were iven Lord Rayleigh .
[ May 20 , to the single ( spherical ) lens .
In the earlier expcriments the object-glass was a nearly equi-convex lens of 14 inches focus .
-piece was a com- bination of a spherical lens of 6 inches focus with a cylindrical lens of inches focus , so that the focal len gths of the were about inches and 6 inches in the pl.incipal planes , giving lnagnifications as three to one .
With the above object-lens the actual nifications would be about 2 and 6 .
the observation S , xis .
the telescope was horizontal and that of the cylindrical lens ] ' , so the higher magnification was in the horizontal direction of hcld .
During the adjustments it is convenient to examine a cross ) horizontal and vertical lines , ruled upon paper well illuminate-d and a sufficient distance .
When the object-lens stands square , there , of } positio1l of the compound eye-piece which allows both constiments cross to be seen in focus together .
If we wish to pass from the horizontal to that necessary for the vertical line , we must push ] ) iece in .
In order to focus both at once we must slope the -lens .
since while both the primary and secondal.y focal lengths are dininished by ) the former is the diminished , it follows that the required is in the vertical plane , the lens rotated about tal diameter .
If we introduce obliquity by , we find that the disl ) CClJlcnt of the eye-piece required to pass from one focus to the other .
) liIninishes until an obliquity is reached which both lines of th to } in focus simultaneously .
At a still higher obliquity the hiluation of the two foci is reversed .
In the actual experiment with the -lens , the critical obliquity was roughly estimated at about ) The above apparatus worked fairly well ) interference rings Irom a thallium vacutllt tube .
But it that the suffered somewhat from abcrration .
A better 1 ) sned when t ] nification in both directions was ution of an -lens of 24 inches focus , although Being desirous of testing the method of under more favourable conditions , Tprocul.ed front of balyta crown glass of index for form .
The crture was about , and the this combined ) ound e ) , the very good , if , in nlcc ilh , the culved face of lens to made cross or ] ) apcr .
The ] ) II0W 1908 .
] On the Aberration of Sloped Lenses , etc. S9 defined .
When , however , the )-lens was reversed , so as to present its plane face to the incident rays , no good result could be attained , evidently in consequence of aberration .
The change in the character of the image was now very apparent when the eye was moved up and down , the rings appearing llore elliptical as the eye moved in the direction of the nearest part of tlJe edge of the sloped lens .
Next to of this effect could be observed when the object-lens was used in the proper position .
It is scarcely necessary to say that care must be taken to ensure that the axis , about which the lens is turned , is truly perpendicular to the axis of the cylindrical componcnt of the eye-piece .
ether it appears that the combination of sloped object-lens with compound cylindrical eye-piece constitutes a satisfactory solution ) the .
I believe that it may } ) applied with tage in the many cases which arise in the laboratory where an unsymmetrical magnifying best meets the conditions .
The question as to the precise index to be chosen for the plano-convex lens remains to some extent open .
Possibly a somewhat higher index , e.g. , , or even , might be preferred to that which I have used .
With the view to the design of future instruments , it may be convenient to set out the formula giving the distance between the primary and secondary foci of the object-lens as dependent upon the obliquity .
If be the primary and secondary focal lengths , it is known ( compare ( 33 ) ) that , ( 54 ) eing the focal length corresponding to ; so that ( 55 ) In this nately .
Hence from which the required obliquity is readily calculated when the nature of the eye-piece and the focal of the object-lens are given .
P.S. , June 6.\mdash ; From von Rohr 's excellent 'Iheorie ltnd Geschichte des Photographischen Objectivs , ' Berlin , 1899 , I learn that a still Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Constants of [ June 4 , earlier date ( 1884 ) , Lippich a of obtaining a diverse magnificatio1l , and one ) I had in the use of an eye-piece formed by croshing two cylindrical lensc { ' diHerent 1 The lenses are ]llounted , not close cthcI , but at snch xnces from the image as to render parallel the rays fro ] ) } it in the two planes separately .
In this method tlJe object-lens nalC to the axis oi the instrnnlent .
had the )ject in view fhat which CJuided me .
I have tried his method with success , tain i an ) a good , or nearly as , as that afforded by the ] ) .
I that Professor S. P. Thompson also has a similar The Optical oj the A. E. H. .
A. , .S .
Received ) At a lecture delivered to the l'russian in the vear 1826 , rofessor Mitscherlich nnent ith }psum ( selenite ) ) has ever sir been tho : ) criment.\ldquo ; He had discoveled , as the 1nost , leslt of ( ( tion of the double refraction of a nunlber of tures , that gypsum , the c ] ) suifels )(reater c , as } its the lence of heat than , th I. At dinary tempelatnrc it is biaxial , ) on ( the temperature ) ) of of he ( \ldquo ; in conof a uniaxial ] ) tl direction to to cool , th in .
It this striking ) in in Berlin experiment is ] ) of luost interesting and easily ersion.\ldquo ; well-known are brookite , the

