232 Dr. W. Marcet .
IV .
" Effects of prolonged Heating on the Magnetic Propertiesf Iron .
" By S. R. Roget .
Communicated by Professor Ewi F.R.S. V. " On the Connection of Algebraic Functions with Automorp Functions .
" By E. T. Whittaker .
Communicated by P fessor Forsyth , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over Ascension Hay to Thursday , May 2t " A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
" By William Marci M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 10 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1898 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) At the meeting of the Physiological Society held at Universi College in March , 1897 , I exhibited and described a calorimeter co structed for the purpose of determining the heat given out by ma Several members of the Society , in succession , allowed themselves be shut up in the chamber where they experienced no discomfc whatever .
The instrument wan also described the same year to t Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle of Geneva , but no ft account of it has been published so far .
The first calorimeter for the investigation of animal heat was mat by Lavoisier and Laplace , * who enclosed an animal in a ehambi surrounded with ice and determined the heat evolved by measurir the amount of ice melted .
Crawford , in 1788 , placed the air chambi inside a water-jacket , and determined the heat emitted by means \lt ; the increased temperature of the water .
An objection to tb type of calorimeter is the very small rise in the water temperatur and the difficulty of obtaining an uniform temperature in such a large volume of water .
J. Rosenthal , f in 1878 , introduced a calorimete in which the heat given out from a small animal was absorbed by fluid with a low boiling point , such as ordinary ether , the amount o heat was calculated from the volume of the fluid evaporated and ii known latent heat of vaporization .
Rosenthal , J at a later date , constructed a calorimeter , which cor sisted of three concentric chambers of sheet copper , and was mad in duplicate ; the two instruments were connected by means of : U-shaped manometer .
The heat given out by an animal , such as dog , enclosed in the innermost chamber of one of the instruments # ' Memoires de l'Acad .
des Sciences , ' 1780 .
t ' Arcliiv f. Anat .
u. Physiol. ' ( Physiol. Abthg .
) , 1878 , p. 349 .
+ C. Rosenthal , 'Arch .
f. Anat .
u. Physiol. ' ( Physiol. Abthg .
) , 1888 .
p. lj ^ Rosenthal , ibid. , 1889 , pp. 1 , 23 , 39 .
A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
233 is communicated to the middle chamber , and from the position of the eniscus in the manometer , the initial temperature of the experiment d the barometric pressing , the heat emitted in a given time was directly calculated .
Experiments were made on man with a modified form of this strument by enclosing an arm in one of the two inner chambers , in* * * S investigated the heat emitted by man by making use of a ooden chamber in which he had previously ascertained the rate of ss of heat through its walls .
This was done by burning a known dume of hydrogen gas within the chamber until the temperature \#166 ; came constant , and then determining the heat lost per unit of me , from the known volume of gas burnt .
This method at first wht commended itself by its simplicity , but was open to two objec-^ns\#151 ; the first that it was an indirect method of inquiry , the second tat the person under experiment was unavoidably subjected to a igh temperature .
In 1889 Richetf published an elaborate investigation on animal sat , in which he made use of a calorimeter constructed in such a ay that the heat emitted by an animal in a closed vessel displaced 7 pressure a volume of water equal to the expansion of the air in Le calorimeter .
An ingenious animal-calorimeter was constructed lately by Messrs. S. Haldane , W. Hale White , and J. W. Washbourne .
J These antlemen determined the heat given out from an animal , by comaring the pressure resulting from the expansion of the air in a osed jacketed space surrounding the chamber containing the aimal , with the corresponding* expansion produced by the burning f a known volume of hydrogen gas in another similar vessel .
The mount of gas burnt is regulated with a stopcock , so that its heat lould correspond exactly with that pi'oduced in the other chamber s indicated by a differential manometer .
The heat emitted is equal ) that of the combustion of the gas burnt .
Messrs. W. 0 .
Atwater and E. B. Rosa , of Connecticut , [ J.S. , S ave quite recently measured the heat emitted from a person by lacing him in a large calorimeter , where he lived for periods of from no to twelve days .
The walls of the chamber were double , and lade of sheet copper and sheet zinc , while the heat generated was * " La Thermodynamique et 1'etude du travail cliez les etres vivants , Revue cientifique , ' 1897 .
* Reclierclies sir l'Equivalent mecanique de la Chaleur .
olmar , 1858 , pp. 51 , 95 .
' Exposition analytique et experimcntale de la Theory lecanique de la Chaleur .
' Paris , 1875 , p. 35 .
t " La Chaleur animale , " par Ch. Riehet , ' Bibl .
Sc. Internet .
, 1889 .
t ' The Journal of Physiology , ' 1894 , p. 123 .
S " An Apparatus for verifying the Law of Conservation of Eneigy in the lurnan Body , " Brit. Assoc. , 1897 , Toronto , Trans , of Sec. A ( General Physics ) .
Dr. W. Marcet .
carried away by a stream of water ; according to the authors , tee showed this calorimeter to be very accurate .
The construction of the present instrument was suggested fro Berthelot 's calorimeter , for the determination of specific heat 1 mixtures , in which the heat given out is reflected by bright surfao of silvered copper surrounding at a short distance the vessel co taining the mixture .
It was found , however , in experimenting wii the new calorimeter ( which was not silvered inside ) , that all tl heat was not reflected , a certain proportion being absoi'bed by tl copper , which necessitated an arrangement for determining tl temperature of the metal .
The instrument ( see figure ) consists of a wooden chamber lint internally with a thick padding of cotton wool , and externally wii several thicknesses of felt .
Inside this chamber there is anotb made entirely of sheet copper , the inner surface of which is mail tained carefully polished ; its height is 145 cm .
, and its breadth 69 cm .
The two chambers have between them an annular spat from .
4 to 5 cm .
in breadth .
The capacity of the copper chambe empty , is 810'4 litres , and its weight 62,370 kilograms , therefore a alteration of 1 ' C. in the tempcratui*e of that mass of copper woul be equal to 5832 ( small ) calories , or would raise 5832 grams \lt ; water 1 ' C. The copper chamber is closed by means of a movable panel als constructed of copper , which is fixed to a wooden backing ; the edg of the copper panel is made to press tightly against an india-rubbe cushion carried round the rim of the opening in the copper chambe : while the edge of the wooden backing is applied against the rim ( the wooden chamber , and the panel is kept in its place firmly wit brass screws .
This movable door is too heavy to be handled easil by one man , and on that account is fixed to a tackle fastened to beam in the roof of the laboratory , by which means no difficulty i experienced in opening or closing the chamber .
There is a small window 21 x 15 cm .
, made of two superpose panes of very thick glass , and opening into the two chambers ; when closed , the rim of the inner pane presses against a cushion aroun the corresponding opening in the copper chamber ; it shuts by spring bolt , and should the person under experiment feel uncom fortable , or wish to communicate with the outside , he can push ope : this window at any time .
Inside the copper chamber there are two ventilators , or perhap more correctly " agitators , " in the form of revolving fans , the objeo of which is to thoroughly mix the air inside the chamber .
One o these agitators is fixed high up in the chamber , the other low dowi on the opposite side .
The upper agitator was found experimentally t\lt ; produce a blast of 190 litres per minute\#151 ; say about 380 litres pel A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
minute for the two ; nearly the whole of the air in the chamber would be carried through the two agitators every two minutes.* rLhe number of revolutions of the fans recorded by counters amounts together to two or three hundred thousand per hour .
The motor power for working the fans is obtained from the wires used for the electric light of the laboratory , and exerted through two small dynamos\#151 ; one for each agitator , while the action of either one or the other can be regulated by a carbon-resistance .
* The resistance caused by the ice , and a rose jet on the track from the lower agitator , would probably reduce the draught to some little extent ; no doubt , however , that the air is very thoroughly mixed inside the chamber .
Dr. W. Marcet .
The upper agitator is disposed in such a way as to drive the ai ; \gt ; the chamber through a mass of ice roughly broken up , and held ii , cylindrical tin vessel open at the top , suspended from the roof of -e chamber .
The cold air having from its increased density a tender , to fall , is taken up by the lower ventilator and driven upwards ; such means a circulation of the air in the chamber is maintairj through the ice-holder .
Should the temperature of the chamber r \gt ; during the experiment , by increasing the draught through the more ice is melted and the rise is checked ; the reverse holds equa good .
The ice used for absorbing the heat emitted by the person unc experiment delivers its water into a flask holding a thermomei divided into fiftieths of a degree centigrade ; the flask and the mometer are both weighed .
The flask hangs from a hook on t side of a tube projecting from the bottom of the ice-holder .
Besides the thermometer in the flask , there are three other the mometers all centigrade , also divided into fiftieths of a degrc connected with the calorimeter ; the bulb of one of them projec into the copper chamber while its stem is carried outside above t : wooden chamber ; a second has its bulb fastened down to the side the copper chamber by means of a strip of copper which covers entirely , its stem also projecting outside ; the third thermomet is passed through the wooden chamber into the annular space , who temperature it shows during the experiment .
The successive stages of an experiment are as follows:\#151 ; the lie emitted from the body is first rapidly distributed throughout tl chamber , then it is absorbed by the mass of ice , reappearing i measurable form as water .
Knowing that 79 calories are require for melting 1 gram of ice , the total calories corresponding to tt ice melted are easy to calculate .
Some of the heat emitted falls upon the brightly polished surfac of copper of the chamber , most of it is reflected into the chamber , be a certain proportion becomes absorbed in the metal , and is determine by the thermometer attached to the walls of the chamber .
Perhaj a very small amount passes through the copper walls into tb annular space , it might have been neglected , but has been taken int account in every experiment .
A number of experiments showet that the copper was equally heated in every part , or very nearly sc while the test experiments made with hydrogen gas placed tha question quite at rest .
The thermometers were generally read and the readings recordec every ten minutes , the temperature of the copper being used as* guide towards the maintenance of a constant temperature throughout the instrument .
It will be readily understood that a difference of as much as 1 A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
237 b the end of the experiment in the temperature of the air of the opper chamber was not of great moment from the low specific heat f air ; indeed , such a difference would only yield 214 calories , which j but trifling on say , 90,000 calories given out in one hour .
On the there hand , a slight difference in the temperature of the copper roved of importance on account of the mass of metal .
There was no difficulty , however , in maintaining the temperature f the copper within 0-3 ' or 0'4o of its original reading before the xperiment .
Should it accidentally run up beyond that figure , a ery rare occurrence , this only lasted a minute or two , and by acreasing the blast through the ice , the temperature of the copper *ras soon brought down to its initial reading .
A similar remark pplies to falling temperatures of the copper ; by stopping the raught through the ice they soon rose to the initial reading .
Of ourse , constant attention to the temperatures was required during he whole experiment , which , with but few exceptions , lasted one Lour .
There remained , however , a serious difficulty to contend with , \gt ; wing to the heat produced by , the action of the ventilators or agitators .
At first the friction of the bearings on which the fans rotate was bought to be the main cause of this heat ; and , in consequence , tneir losition was altered so as to be placed entirely outside the wooden \#166 ; hamber .
This , however , failed to mend matters , and it became wident that the friction of the revolving blades against the air was he source of the heat produced .
The only method of overcoming he difficulty was to determine the heat produced exclusively by the igitators and subtract it from the total heat obtained in each experiment .
It was now found necessary to introduce counters registering the number of revolutions for each of the ventilators up to 1,000,000 turns .
The inquiry necessitated by the ventilators ( say agitatois ) took up a considerable portion of the winter 1896-97 .
These experiments were carried out exactly in the same way as those made on the living body , with this difference , that while from 10 to 15 lbs. ( 4-5\#151 ; 6-8 kilograms ) of ice were wanted when a human subject was under experiment , from 500 to 800 grams of ice only had to be used with the agitator experiments .
The following is the result of one experiment taken at random amongst a gieat many others:\#151 ; Chamber .
Initial ... ... .
15'59 ' Final ... ... . .
15'55 -0'04 Annular space .
Copper .
15-50 ' 15-35 ' 15-52 15-50 + 0-02 +0-15 Dr. W. Marcet .
Weight of ice melted 9 7'46 grams .
T. water from ice 10-92 ' Calories recovered .
From melted ice .
+7699 " heat absorbed in water ... .
+1064 " , , of air in chamber . . .
-9 , , , , air in annular space .
+ 1 " " copper ( of chamber ) . .
+ 875 9630 ( 9 subtracted ) Number of revolutions of agitators. .
... .
342,305 342,3052 = 11717 ... .
Unfortunately the heat produced by the revolving fans was if found to be exactly proportional to the number of revolutions , rather squared revolutions , although the figures approximated to ea other much nearer on the same day than on different days .
It w therefore decided to make two* preliminary experiments with t agitators on the same day as each calorimeter experiment , and subtract the agitator calories from the total calories obtained .
the number of revolutions was not exactly the same in the te experiments and in calorimeter experiments , the calories for com tion were calculated in proportion to the revolutions in the te experiment , of course previously squaring the revolutions .
The following table shows in calories the heat produced by tl ventilators during forty minutes from a few experiments , the numb 'f revolutions is about 230,000 , and the calories are calculated f 200,000:\#151 ; On 200,000 Revolutions .
Date .
Calories .
Means .
4th January , 1897 ... ... ... .
6866 1 .i9A 5974 / Sfl}5846 57 , % } 5623 5782o}5551 49011 4779 4658 61201 5956 \gt ; 6434 6463 J * W hen time was pressing only one was made .
8th 9th 10th 11th 14th A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
239 From these experiments the mean error is 218 calories , or on , say , ,000 ( emitted in forty minutes ) = 0'3 per cent. I now felt able to rely on the work undertaken with the calori--jter ; still the instrument had to be tested , and with this object it is applied to the determination of the heat lost by a jar holding Di ' 7 litres of hot water and comparing the heat recovered with the at lost by the water ; the calorimeter was also used towards the fcimation of the heat produced by the combustion of a known .lurne of pure hydrogen gas , comparing the heat recovered with at known to be produced by the combination of that volume of gas th oxygen , and this work I undertook in conjunction with B. Floris , F.C.S. The first set of experiments with hot water proved very trouble-me .
It was found necessary to mix the layers of water in the jar ; fore and after the experiment , and to read coi'rectly and quickly a lermometer registering up to 002 of a degree centigrade ; more-rer the loss of heat could not be determined while the jar was being irried to and shut up in the calorimeter ; and a similar difficulty as experienced on removing the jar from the calorimeter at the end : an experiment .
Notwithstanding these many causes of error , as ill be seen in the following table , the mean of the results approxi-ated very closely to the calories calculated from the loss of heat of le water .
If , for instance , the jar contained 6 litres of water or 6000 grams , nd lost 10 ' of temperature in the calorimeter , say , from 75 ' to 65 ' C. , aen 60,000 calories , with slight corrections for the specific heat of rater at that temperature , and the thermal capacity of the jar , would ave to be found in the calorimeter .
These experiments are tabulated as follows : Calories found .
Calories lost by radiation .
Difference .
57,451 58,468 \#151 ; 1-74 per cent. 49,345 53,659 \#151 ; 8-04 99 61,760 62,480 + 115 9 9 59,432 59,141 + 0-49 99 60,383 61,085 \#151 ; 115 99 63,323 64,392 \#151 ; 1-66 99 63,226 60,410 + 4-66 99 65,882 66,575 \#151 ; 1-04 99 61,873 59,566 + 3-87 99 63,016 66,250 \#151 ; 4'88 99 51,940 55,033 \#151 ; 5-62 99 Mean. .
59,785 60,642 \#151 ; 1-41 99 Dr. W. Marcet .
Although there was in one case as much as 8'04 per cent. ence between the calories found and the calories lost from the^ still the mean of the eleven experiments differs only by cent. , which is a near result considering the difficulty of the exi " meant .
W** The determination of the heat produced by the combustion hydrogen was certainly a more satisfactory method than the for3r for testing the calorimeter ; hydrogen was prepared for the purse m the usual way by the action of sulphuric acid on zinc the\#171 ; being purified through solutions of potassium hydrate and cuiic sulphate , and collected over water in a bell-jar carefully gradual The receiver was supplied with a gauge , showing the pressure\#169 ; which the gas was subjected , and a thermometer ; from 20 to 29 lit ; of gas were used in each experiment .
After making the required preliminary essays with the agitata , the experiment was proceeded with as follows:\#151 ; - First of all it was necessary to find out and to adjust carefully speed of the gas delivery , and with that object a weight was plad 'n .
, } \#174 ; bell-jar , while the rate of issue of the gas was regulated !
will by means of a screw clamp on the track of the gas tube.* i that way the speed of the gas delivered was adjusted so as to prodtt on burning about the same heat as a person would emit in the calc-meter in a given time .
The delivery tube led from the bell-jar into the calorimei* through a fixed metal tube carried across the walls of the ti chambers of the calorimeter , its end being connected with a suital burner ; when lighted , the gas burnt with but a very small flame .
Before commencing the experiment the tube was rinsed out wi hydrogen and the thermometers were read , together with the point on the scale of the bell-jar .
Then the gas was turned on at lighted , the vessel containing the ice hung in position , the stoj watch started , the calorimeter closed , and the agitators put i motion .
Of course every care was taken to keep the temperature ( the calorimeter constant , which was done without any difficulty , tt temperature of the copper varying seldom by more than 0*1 ' or 0'2 ' ( When foity minutes or an hour had elapsed ( mostly forty minutes , the temperatures were read , the gas turned off , and the agitato !
stopped .
Next the calorimeter was l'apidly opened , and the flow o water from the ice to the flask arrested ; the temperature of the ic water was then read off , these various operations being carried on as rapidly as possible .
It was necessary to determine the hea absorbed by the burner , which was done by plunging the burner immediately after turning off the gas , into 200 c.c. of water at t * .
^le S8,8 waa carried as much as possible through glass tubing , in order to avoid the loss by diffusion through india-rubber .
A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
t own temperature and determining the rise of temperature of the ter ; the burner was found to absorb 300 calories during the oer intent .
The pointer showed on the scale of the bell-jar the uume of hydrogen burnt , and the gauge the pressure the gas was der in millimetres of water , while a thermometer gave the tem-\gt ; \gt ; ature of the gas in the bell-jar , and a barometer the atmospheric assure ; the hydrogen gas was of course saturated with water pour .
Hence we were in possession of every data for the reduc-m of the gas to the dry state , to 0 ' C. , and 760 mm. pressure .
In the early experiments it did not occur to us to analyse the drogen gas in order to ascertain its degree of purity , but we did subsequently , using for that purpose the eudiometer constructed one of us ( W. M. ) , which for several years has been exclusively opted in this laboratory for the determination of oxygen in expired P ; the analysis of the gas introduced but a very slight correction , ae following table gives the results of the experiments we made on e heat emitted by the combustion of a given weight of hydrogen i8 .
It might be added that the machine known as " Brunsviga " as used for the calculations , which saved much time and trouble ; r this means the whole of the calculations could be completed in \gt ; out fifteen minutes .
Favre and Silbermann find 1 gram of H to give in burning 34,462 dories .
Found .
2* ... ... ... .
33,159 3* ... ... ... .
35,291 4 ... ... ... . .
35,186 5* ... ... ... ..34,212 Q* ... ... . .
35,610 7 ... ... ... 33,923 8 ... ... ... .
34,079 9 ... ... ... .
34,440 10 35,048 Mean ... .
34,428 Favre and Silbermann , Marcet and Floris ... .
Difference .
3'26 low per cent. 3-78 " " 2'41 high , , 2-10 % 0'73 low " 3'33 high " 1-56 low , , 1 11 " 0-06 " \#187 ; \#187 ; 1-70 high 0'10 low " .
34,462 .
34,428 34 = 0T per cent. The present result is certainly convincing , and these figures are plain statements of all the experiments we made .
Ihe grea ea * In these experiments the hydrogen gas was not analysed ; it was analysed m all the others and the correction therefrom introduced .
242 Dr. W. Marcet and Mr. R. B. Floris .
An Experimental difference is only one of 378 per cent. , and the mean difference i not exceed 34 calories on 34,462 , amounting to 01 per cent , on may therefore be concluded that the present calorimeter has pro j itself very accurate for the determination of the heat produced , the combustion of a given volume of hydrogen gas ; and , cor ' quently it can be accepted as equally reliable for the correct'estir tion of the heat radiated from the human body or from that o fairly large animal .
" An Experimental Enquiry into the Heat given out by t Human Body .
" By W. Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. , and R. Floris , F.C.S. Received March 10 , \#151 ; Read April 1898 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London .
) Dr. Mareet 's calorimeter having* been fully described in the previo paper , the present conjoint authors now submitted themselves experiment , one of them remaining* shut up in the chamber , usual for the space of an hour , while the other was engaged outside regulate the temperature of the chamber and note the readings the thermometers .
W^hen breathing was carried on inside the calorimeter , it migl be thought that the air of the chamber became too full of C02 or t( deficient in oxygen for the purposes of respiration .
Such , howeve was not the case , and no discomfort whatever was experienced in tl course of an hour s incarceration .
It is easy to calculate from a cor sumption of , say , 26*488 grams of O per hour that supposing th calorimeter to be absolutely air-tight , a condition which was nc actually realised , there would be a fall of oxygen , after one hou spent in the calorimeter , equal to a reduction of pressure from 760 mm. to 668 mm. , and this would correspond to an elevation o about 7000 feet ( 2135 metres ) above the sea level .
Such an altitud* would certainly not be trying to the respiration .
The experiment was carried out as follows in every instance:\#151 ; Previous to entering the chamber the subject of the experiment sat down in the laboratory to rest , in many instances taking biS temperature , sublingual , with a clinical thermometer .
In the meantime a weight of ice varying between 10 lbs. anc 15 lbs. ( 4*5 to 6*8 kilograms ) , according to circumstances , was cut into blocks about 2 or 3 inches diameter , and placed in the ice holder , where the blocks were disposed as much as possible in a position to allow the air from the agitator to circulate freely between them .
A temporary receiver for the water from the melting ice was hung to \amp ;

