" On a new and more correct method of determining the Angle of Aperture of Microscopic Object-Glasses .
" By WILLIAM S. GILLETT , Esq. , M.A. Communicated by CIARLES BROOKE , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 9 , 1854 .
The very large apertures assigned to the more recent microscopic object-glasses drew the author 's attention some time since to the importance of testing the accuracy of the method employed to determine their amount .
With this object in view he began with the consideration that the central pencil was alone to be regarded , and that the marginal rays of this were the true limits of the angle of aperture , and that consequently the rays of all oblique pencils were to be excluded , as these might cross at a point not coincident with the principal focus , and being measured separately might form an angle ( apparently of aperture ) not coinciding of course with the true one , although perhaps not differing from it in amount .
A short description of the usual method of measuring these angles will suffice to show what claim it has to confidence in these respects .
The microscope , with the object-glass to be examined and an ordinary eye-piece , is used as a telescope , and a light placed at some distance is commonly made an object to define the limit of the field of view , the image of which is formed near the back surface of the posterior combination , and the diffused light of this image , as seen through the eye-piece , is the indication that a pencil of light is admitted , whether central or oblique .
Sometimes by an additional glass the eye-piece is made an erecting one capable of bringing the image into focus .
This adds much to the convenience , but not to the correctness of the method .
Thus the conditions of the microscopic object-glass are reversed , the principal focus being transferred from the front to the back , and the rays estimated are those of the extreme oblique pencils , which may or may not pass through the point of the principal focus of the glass when used for the microscope .
The importance of this in the illumination of objects immediately suggested itself ; and the author obtained a further proof by another experiment bearing directly upon this point .
A blackened wire was placed under a microscope at the focal point , with an object-glass of considerable power and aperture , the wire covering the field with the eye-piece used .
The field was then illuminated with an achromatic condenser , the field of illumination exceeding , as it usually does , that of the microscope .
As was expected , the oblique rays which passed on both sides of the wire prevented its blackness from being seen ( this becoming of a milky-grey ) , until the field of illumination was reduced to the extent of that of the microscope , when it immediately assumed to the eye its natural blackness .
This reminded the author of a beautiful illustration given by Professor Faraday some years since at the Royal Institution , of the effect of glare produced by placing white muslin blackened in parts before a white paper printed in large letters ; with the white muslin in front , the letters were scarcely visible , while through the blackened parts they resumed their natural appearance .
These experiments suggested the new method adopted , which may be briefly stated as follows : The microscope of which the object-glass is to be examined is placed horizontally and centred by an object placed in the focus .
Next , there is substituted in place of the eye-piece , a hollow cone with an aperture at its summit .
Light passing through this aperture is made to form an image of it in the principal focus of the object-glass , in the place of the original object .
On this image a horizontally placed examining microscope is then directed , which traverses as the radius of a graduated circle , having its centre corresponding with the place of the original object , and therefore with the image to be viewed ; and the angle of aperture is measured by the arc passed through between two extreme positions , in the usual manner .
The method is further explained in the paper by a figure and description of the apparatus , which was itself exhibited in the Library after the meeting .
VTOL .
VII .

