]\gt ; December 9 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received wers laid on the table , and thanks ordel.ed for them .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\mdash ; The Treasurer .
Dr. Archibald Geikie .
Professor Bartholomew Price .
Sir George Richards .
The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. ' Note to a Paper on the Geometrical Construction of the Cell of the Honey Bee ( ' Ro. .
Soc. Proc vol. 39 , paga By HrNRY HNESSY , F.R.S. , Professor Applied Mathematics in the Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received November , 1886 .
The result obtained in the paper on the cell of the hnney read November 26 , 1885 , by which the side of one of the lozenges composing the cell was found to be three times the difference between the two parallel edges forming the sides of one of the trapeziums of the prism , gives a very simple method for constructing the figure as follo .
On a straight line take a part AD , and lay @ 1886 .
] Estimabion of Mioro-organisms in the Atmosphere .
off DC equal to twice AD , from erect a perpendicular , and with radius cut ofl DP ; AC and AP are sides of the lozenge ACEP , which fulfils the required oonditions .
lt is manifest that from this lozenge the remaining two lozenges and also the six trapeziums can be immediately constructed .
The tria , ngular pyramid which the 's cell may be inscribed in a sphere whose diameter three times the side of one of the edges of the pyramid .
The base of this pyramid is an equilateral triangle , side of which is and whose circumscl.ibing circle has for its diameter .
This diameter is a chord of the spherical segment whose versed sine is .
Hence , if is the diameter of the sphere in which is a chord , } , but also , irnd , whence We have also Hence the sphere contains within it all that part of the bee 's ceIl bounded by the three lozenges , together with as much of the hexagonal prism as may be measured by twice the side of a lozenge on the shorter edge of the prism .
This result , together with the extremely simple mode now given for constructing the figure , divests the problem of the complexity and difficulty with which it was formerly sometimes regarded , and it may also possibly enable the natnralist to more readily xplain the .ction of the bees in moulding the cells of the honeycomb to observed shapes .
II .
" " A New Method for the Quantitative Estimation of Micro-organisms present in the Atmosphere By PERCY F. FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Professor FRANKLAND , D.C.L. , F.R. .
Received November 15 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
The author commences by giving a sketch of some of the more important methods which have been devised for the bactelioscopic examination of air .
In these he includes the experiments of Pasteu who was the first to show that the air at different places varied in the number of micro-organisms which it contained , and of Tyndall , who proved that the microbes suspended in the air become deposited in the absence of any disturbing influence .
He further

