]\gt ; IX .
on the ) of the at , Co. By WILLIAM E. WILSON , M.R.I.A. , nd P. L. GRAY , B.Sc. , A.R. C.S. , Lectn ?
er in Pl , ysics , lIlason College , Birminghm .
Comrnunicated by G. STONE STONY , F.R. Received January 4 , \mdash ; Read March 15 , 1894 .
THE expression " " effective temperature of the sun\ldquo ; has by this time obtained a welldefined meaning , and may be taken ( as stated by VIOLLE and other physicists ) to be that uniform temperature which the sun would have to possess if it had an emissive power equal to unity , at the same time giving out the same amount of radi nt energy at present .
The older estimates of this quantity were little more than guesses , and varied between 1500o C. and 3 to 5,000,000o C. , or more .
The fornler of these values was given by assuming that and PETIT'S formula where intensity of radiation , temperature of the radiating surface , and and are constants for ally one substance , held up to any limit .
The result given by it is obviously too low , as it is less than even the melting-point of platinum , the vapour of which probably exists in the solar atmosphere , and consider- ably lower than the temperature which may be obtained in the focus of a large lens .
The higher values were found by using NEWTON'S law , in which radiation is as simply proportional to difference of tempel'ature between the radiating body and its surronndings , a law which is proved to hold good only for very small differences .
It would appear , then , that by far the greatest difficulty in .
the value of the solar temperature arose from ignorance of the law which connects the ladiation from a hot body with its temperature , although there are minor ties hich still produce uncertainties in the final resuIt .
One thing seems certain , that the temperature of the sun is far higher than any we can produce in our laboratories .
This being so , the best that can done is to make direct determinations of the connection between radiation and temperature within the widest possible limits , find an empirical law to which the observations .362 .
W. .
WILSON AND P. L. GRAY conform , and trust that 110 break of continuity make an extra-polation entirely nseless .
So far , the only investigations made in this way appear to be those of LE SETTI .
LE CHATELTEiR measured the photometric intensity of the red li from solid bodies heated to known temperatures , and obtained an empirical which very fairly expressed his results from 70 to1800o C. He then , by passing sunlight through the same piece of red glass , measured the visual intensity of the " " red adiation \ldquo ; coming from the sun , and , by applying the law just mentioned , deduced an effective solar temperature of 7600o C. , which Le admits to be an approximation with a possible error either way of The law he found is expressed thus : I is the phobometric intensity , and the absolute temperature of the radiating body .
On plotting the numbers that LE gives for corresponding values of I and , it will be seen more easily than by mere inspection of the formula that I increascs in an enormously rapid ratio as compared with , which must evidently tend to the accuracy of the results obtained by extra-polation .
, as VIOLLE points out , ib is probable that the absorption by the red glass decreases as the radiation increases .
And in discussing a question in which encrgy as measured by heat is concerned , it is probably better to deal by experiment with the total energy than with a selected wave-length , or a group of wave-lengths .
Still the value thus obtained is sufficiently near those given by the utterly distinct methods of ROSETTI and of ourselves to increase considerably the probability of the approximate accuracy of our results .
ROSETTI attacked in the most direct and complete manner hitherto attempted .
He detelmined a law of radiation which held well up to 2000o C. , and found in arbitrary units the heat radiated from an incandescent body at a temperature by means of a thermopile and galvanometer .
He then measured the heat from the sun in the same units , and applied his to find the temperature , which finally came out at about C. The questions of atmh.ic absorption and the emissive powers of his incandescent solids were also investigated , and his work will be referred to more than once in the pages .
, ' Count .
Rend 1892 , vol. 114 , p. 737 .
ROSEITI , ' Phil. Mag 1879 , , 5th scries , pp. 324 , 438 , The negative in the exponent is omitted 111 LL CHATELIER'S paper , by a mere blip .
S VIOLLr , ' Comp } .
Rend 1892 , vol. 114 , p. 734 .
ON THE EFFECTIVE THi OF THT SUN .
3 .
63 I. GENERAL METHOD AND The general idea in this investigation was to endeavour to balcxnce the heat of the sun by means of an artificial source of heat at a high known temperature , thus obtaining both directness and simplicity as as possible .
The artificial source of heat was a strip of platinum heated by an electric current ; this strip formed of a modified form of JOLY'S Meldometer , which is described below , and its temperature couId be determined at any moment with a high order of accuracy .
The radiation from a known area of the incandescent strip was balanced againsb that coming from the sun in a differential radio-micrometer\mdash ; a modified form of Professor BOYS'S well-known and excessively delicate instrument .
The essential theory of the method was extremely simple .
Knowing the apparent areas of the sun and the artificial source of heat ( the latter , of course , being the greater ) , and knowing the law connecting radiation and temperature , we can at once find to what point the latter would have to be raised to balance the sun , if these apparent areas were made equal .
But this would be the required ture of the sun , if the emissive powers were , and both bodies could radiate directly and without absorption on to the receiving surface of the radiomicrometer .
This extreme simplicity , however , cannot be obtained , and correcting factors have to be applied for\mdash ; Emissive power of the platinum strip ; ( b ) Refiecting power of the glass in the heliostat , which keeps the beam of sunshine in the required position ; ( c ) Terrestrial atmospheric absorption .
Each of these will be discussed in turn , after instrulnents used have been cribed .
The general arrangement of the apparatus is shown in fig. 1 .
is the heliostat , which is placed on a window sill outside the laboratory , about 4 metres from the radio-micrometer , and the meldometer M. The two latter instruments are supported on a table which stands on a concrebe pier passing througl ] the floor of the room .
is the scale of the meldometer , the distance from to being about 3 is the scale of the radio-micrometer , and and are the lamps corresponding to the two instruments .
is a variable carbon resistauce ; ? .
is a platinoid coil ; the platinum strip in are in circuit with 26 EPSTEIN accumulator ] , by means of which the strip is heated to any desired temperatnre .
an experiment , a beam of sunlight is reflected on to the face of one circuit\mdash ; say , the lower\mdash ; of the radio-micrometer , and the heat from ] tinurn strip on to that of the higher ; the two circuits are arranged so that , under these con- ditions , the two sources of heat produce ming moments in opposite senses , and ON THE EFFHiCTIVE TEMP RATURE OF SUN .
ratio of the apparent areas of the platinum and the sun , and ratio of the emissivity of ight platinum compared with of lamp-black , then , the radiation from the sun outside our atmosphere , will be The Meldometer .
The meldometer in its original form was devised by Professor for the purpose of finding the melting-points of minerals , hence its name .
As used by him , it consists of a strip of platinum , on which minnte of any can be placed , while any alteration in its length can be determined by means of a micrometer screw which touches a lever connected with one end of the strip .
The strip can be heated by an electric current , and is calibrated by observing the micrometer readings corresponding to the temperatures at which some substances of known melting-points melt .
The first alteration which we made on the original form of instrument to substitute an optical for a mechanical indication of the expansion of the strip , by means of which an alteration in length , due to a rise of 1o C. in temperature , could be detected .
For purposes of ca]ibration it is convenient to place the plane of the strip horizontal , so that the fragment of selected material may rest upon it , and this was the arrangement in our first instrument .
But this introduces the necessity of a mirror at to reflect the heat from the strip into the serious source of error , as no good series of experiments on the reflecting power of speculum metal is to be found , and even if it were , tarnishing of the surface is bound to take place , and make the reflection irregular .
We had , therefore , to solve the problem of keeping our thin strip in a vertical plane , while at the same time supporting fraomentso ' of our selected minerals npon it during the calibration experiments .
The plan finally adopted was to turn up narrow ledge along one edge of the strip , at right angles to the remainder , this serving with very careful handling , as snpport for the mineral gments .
A cross section of the strip was thus -shaped , but with a very shorb horizontal arm , thus : * ' Proc. R. Irish Acad vol. 2 , 3rd series , 1891 , p. 38 .
We have it better to retain JOLY'S namc , although it no ibcs t function of the instrument as used in our work .
The dimeJ sions of the strip were : Length Breadth ( including ) Thickness 102 millims. millim. Fig. 2 shows the final form of the instrument with the water-jacket romoved .
It was made by Messrs. YEATES and SONS , Dublin .
is a block of slate , centims. , rigidly fastened to a cylinder of brass , B. C. , which can be worked up and down a square brass pillar , B.P. , by means of the pinion The pillar is screwed firmly to a heavy slate base..plate , on which the radiomicrometer also stands .
The platinum strip , Pt. , is held between two forceps , of which one , , is fixed , and the other , , is free to rotate on an axle which is supported between and .
In this way the jaws of the forceps , , which hold the strip between them , can move , when the strip expands , in a small circular arc , which ON THHi OF SUN .
in the experiment is not far from a straight line .
is a concave mirror fixed to the axis of rotation ; it gives the image of a luminous slit on a straight scale , 3 metres away , and thus indicates an expansion of the strip , as already explained .
A piece of stout copper wire , C. W. , is connected with the forceps , and dips into a mercury cup , M. C. , by means of which a movable electric connexion is maintained with the remainder of the circuit . .
is a flat spiral spl.ing , which is necessary to keep a slight tension on the strip .
A water-jacket of gilded brass ( shown in dotted lines ) rests on the top of the slate block during an experiment ; its shape is shown in fig. , which is a cross-section ; its length is a little greater than that of the strip , and in the middle of each of its long sides is a circular hole through either of which the heat of the incandescent platinum passes , the hole not in use being plugged up with a gilt brass cap. The water-jackeb serves two purposes : one is that of protecting the glowing platinum from air currents , which would otherwise tend to produce quick variations in its temperature ; the other is that of .
preventing any radiation from the platinum except that which passes through the aperture into the radio-micrometer .
Calibration of the Platinum Strip .
The platinum was obtained from Messrs. JOHNSON , MATTHEY , and Co. , Hatton Garden , London , who reduced it in thickness until a convenient current ( 25 amperes ) from the accumulators was able to raise it to full incandescence .
The calibration experiments were performed as follows:\mdash ; The mirror connected with the strip was turned until the reflected spot of light occupied a convenient position on the scale , which stood at a distance of about 3 metres , and was placed at right angles to the zero position of the index beam of light .
A very small fragment of silver chloride ( approximately a milligramme in weight ) was then placed on the platinum strip , near the middle of its length , and a low-power microscope was so held in a clam } ) that the fragment could be plainly seen through an aperture in the water-jacket .
The melting point of is taken as C. ( on the authority of CARNELLEY* ) , at which point the platinum was under a red heat , so that a candle had to be arranged to shine through an open end of the water-jacket , the gilt sides of which reflected the light so well on to the silver * CARNELLEY " " MeIting ) Boiling..points bless .\ldquo ; cbloride it stood out with great distinctness against the dark metal in the field of the microscope .
One observer , with his eye at the microscope , then switched on the current , and very slowly raised the temperature of the strip by turning the compressing screw of caxbon-resistance , until a sudden melting of the fragment took place ; at the same the second observer took the leading on the scale , which reading then indicates the ) perature 4 C. An ) ctly similar ) rocess was gone through , using a minute piece of chemicallypure gold ( in weight bout of a mil]igramme ) , the meltinl C-point of which we took C. A was then in which the abscissae are temperatures and the ordinates scale .
Onc point on the curve is evidently on the scale at C. ( the temperature of the room ) .
The othel .
two points , viz. , those corresponding to melting gold and melting , lie on straight line with this first point .
That this coincidence was not mere chance is proved by the fact that we have calibrated three different strips\mdash ; one in the first meldometer , in which the of the strip was horizontal , and two in the second instrument , with the of the strip vertical .
The straightness of the line in each case is as perfect as it can be drawn with a straight edge .
The figures for the three strips are : ON THE EFFECTIVE MPERATURE OF THE SUN .
NOTE.\mdash ; VIOLLE gives the melting-point of gold as C. CALLENDAR , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 233 , 1892 , gives C. The mean , 104 C. , of these modern determinations nnot be far from the th .
The three lines thus given are shown in fig. 3 .
In the case of the 1st strip , a piece of palladium was also -point of which is given by VIOLLE as 1500o C. ; a deflection of 61 was obtained on the scale , which falls exactly on the line given by the other two substances .
By means of the straight line , corresponding to the particular strip of ) ) , therefore , the temperature of the latter may be known with a high degree of accuracy by reading the position of the spot of on the thernlometer scale , on which 1 millim. corresponds to about C. in his paper , refers to the possibili- of a viscous extension of the platinum after being raised to high temperatures ; we have proved that this does take place in our experiments , by noticing that the spot of light returns exactly to zero very soon after the current is cut off , when the platinum has been for some 15 seconds at a tempe ] of over 1500o C. The -micrometer .
This instrument is a modification of the single form described by Professor Boys .
The chief difference consists in a duplication of the circuits , both circuits being supported by the same fibre .
The remaining changes consist in an alteration of the position of the magnets , \amp ; c. , which for our purpose are more conveniently placed vertically instead of horizontally .
It was constructed by .
YEATES SONS , Dublin , the double circuit by Mr. W. WATSON , B.Sc. , of the Royal College of Science , London .
The instrument is shown in elevation in fig. 4 , on a scale of about , while the circuit is shown about on the right of the figure , where are the two receiving surfaces of blackened copper foil , attached to which are the bars of the alloys .
The two pairs of bars are connected by a circuit of fine copper wire , and the whole system is supported by a -hoop ( H ) of similar wire ( from which , of course , it is *JoLy , 'Proc .
Roy .
Irish Acad 1891 , 3rd seIies , vol. 2 , p. 61 .
C. BOYS , ' Phi ] .
Trans , 1889 , A. , p. 159 .
SSRS . .
E. WILSON AND P. L. GRAY insulated ) to a fine glass tube , G. T. , to .
which is fastened the mirror , .
The quartzfibre suspension , Q.F. , is eld by the , which passes through a cork , as shown in the quarter-scale drawing .
The weight of the entire system below the pin is about In the elevation of the complete instrument , .
denotes the magnet , and the pole pieces , between which the circuit hangs inside a ] block of brass , with an iron core as in the ordinary form of the radio-micrometer .
is a lens , which , with the srhall mirror , , forms an image of a luminous slit , on a scale at a distance of about a metre .
W.J. and .
are water-jackets , through which it was found better not to allow the water to circulate .
They were kept filled , however , to prevent sudden changes of temperature from affecting the circuits .
The lower water-jacket rests upon a disc of mahogany , which is supported by a orass pillar ; the details of the remaining parts of the instrument will be obvious on an inspection of the diagram .
The water-jackets are pierced by tubes , through which the receiving surfaces are ON EFFECTIVE ) UR OF THE SUN .
visible , and by means of which heat can be allowed to fall upon them .
If desired , any or all of the tubes may be stopped by means of corks .
In an experiment , a short tube is inserted in the opening in the water-jacket opposite to the receiving surface , on which the heat the platinum is to be allowed to fall ; the mouth of the tube is partially closed by a stop of polished brass , in which is a circular hole , millims. in diameter ; the size of the perture was carefully measured by means of a micrometer gauge .
distance of the aperture from the receiving surface was also carefully measured , and is equal to millin ) This gives for the angle subtended by a diameter of the aperture at the receiving surface , This number is a constant for any position of the strip , and is equal to the apparent diameter of the disc of glowing platinum as seen from the receiving surface ; the distance of the platinum strip , therefore , may be altered without the reading of the radio-micrometer , proyided that it be so great that the angle subtended by its width is less than that subtended by the aperture .
In the hole in front of the receiving surface , on which the heat of the sun falls , a brass tube , 8 centims. long , and blackened inside , is inserted to cut off side radiation .
A wooden box covers the entire instrument during an ) eriment , the box containing holes opposite to those in the water-jackets .
By this means the instrument is completely protected both draughts and from accidental radiation from or other sources of heat in the room .
Fig. 5 is from a photograph , the dio-micrometer and meldometer in position , with the ) rotecting wooden cover of the former removed .
The Heliostat .
The heliostat used was a single-mirror instrument of Professor G. JOHNSTONE design .
The mirror was a thick piece of plate glass , with a plane surface carefully figured by Sir HOWARD GRUBB .
It was unsilvered , and well blacked at the back , and was of such dimensions that it subtended angle at the radio-micrometer , when inclined at its usual angle during our experiments , only a little larger than that subtended by the sun .
The sunlight from the mirror passed through a small hole in the shutter of the laboratory window , and by this arrangement the heat from the sky round the sun was completely cut off ; thus no measurements had to be made , as in Professor ROSETTI'S work , to obtain the effect of sky radiation .
The use of a -mirror heliostat was essential , on account of the ities produced by polarization in the intensity of the beam reflected from su1faces , as well as from the difficulty of measuring the two angles of incidence a two-mirror form .
on ON THE ]ECTIVE TRATURE O SUN .
in the visible spectrum , there was no regular reflection from the back .
Even if f , he black varnish happened to possess a refractive index equal to that of the glass , the virtual effect would merely be a slight thickening of the plate , and it would still hold that all the energy due to what we may call for brevity , the " " visible wavelengths reaching the back surface , was there absorbed and then diffused in every direction , the amount reaching the radio-micrometer on this account , absolutely negligible .
As for the -red vibrations , it would be ) to suppose that when all the " " visible wave-lengths\ldquo ; were absorbed , there should be a rapid change in the nature of the back-reflections , so that a " " dark image\ldquo ; might be reflected when no sign of a ' ' light image\ldquo ; was to be found .
Moreover , if such a condition could be considered likely , the additional radiation must be extremely small , as we know by far the greater portion of the heat-energy of the solar radiation is contained within the limits of the visible spectrum .
The point hardly needed further confirmation , but as a check on the curve , obtained from FRESNEL'S formula , we made three photometric obser ytions , as mentioned elsewhere ( p. 386 ) , which gave points very nearly on the theoretical curve .
ON LAW CoNNF , TING RTION AND RATUR E We have already mentioned some iments which have been made in this part of the subject , and seen that it is ignorance of the law which has -been the main cause of yreement in the final estimation of the solar temperature .
ROSETTI'S experiments on point were divided into two parts .
He first found the effect on his thermopile of the radiation from a cube filled with water , and afterwards with mercury , at temperatures from about to C. He then found an empirical formula which closely expressed the observed results .
Th law is expressed thus\mdash ; , where thermal of the radiation as giyen by the deflections on the scale of the thermopile , the absolute of the body , absolute temperature of the medium surrounding the body on which the radiation falls ; while and are constants which must be determined from two corresponding of and T. Experiments were then made with the radiating body ab higher temperatures , which were obtain either by holding a disc of metal in the of a Bunsen burner , or by ting oxychloride of magnesium in the oxyhydrogen flame , preliminary experiments having been made on the emissive power of the various substances at these high temperatures .
Some little doubt must necessarily exist as to the power of knowing exactly what these temperatures actually were ; nevertheless , the results obtained appear consistent and trustworthy , and the accuracy of the parabolic formula was tested satisfactorily up to a temperature of something like 2,000o C. In our experiments , the heat from the platinum strip was , with our first meldometer , allowed to fill on a mirror of speculum metal at , and thence into the -micrometer .
The temperature of the platinum was raised step by step , and , at each step , the deflections , both of the temperature scale and of the radio-micrometer , were noted .
Numerous sets of experiments were made , but with some want of uniformity in the results .
At first it appeared that law of the fourth power expressed the results ; then , with additional precautions , ROSETTI'S law appeared to be confirmed .
But the want of knowledge as to the reflective power of the speculum metal , with the al erations in the state of its surface , as well as difficulties in throwing the reflection of the glowing platinuin fairly into the radio-micrometer , prevented our acceptance of aIly of these results as beyond suspicion .
With the second meldometer , the need of a mirror obviated ; the differential radio-micrometer was replaced by one of the ordinary single form , perfectly protected against accidental radiations , finally , three independent series of experiments gave concordant results which may be very closely expressed by a fourth power law .
The radiation is taken as proportional to the deflections on the scale of the radioicrometer , which was at a distance of about 123 centims. ; the extreme angular de{lection was about , and up to these limits the proportionality is proved to hold accurately .
The curve ( fig. 6 ) is calculated from the formula , where radiation expressed in scale-readings , absolute temperature of the incandescPnt platinum , absolute temperature of the ediu m surrounding the radio-micrometer temperature room ) , cJnd is a constant which was calculated from four points on the experimental curve .
In this case , The perature of the room being about C. absolute , then , will give a point both on the experimental and the calculated curves .
* STEFAN , ' Wien .
Ber , ( 1 ) , see p. 878 .
ON THE CTIVE RATURE OF SUN .
37.5 It will be noticed at once that at comparatively low temperatures the curve does not express the facts , but that the agreement is very good as the tenlperature rises .
This disagreement has been confirmed by coNTE s , whose paper* came under our notice after our experiments were finished and the curve drawn .
He concludes that , at comparatively low temperatures , the fourth power law gives too apid a rate of increase of radiation , which agrees with ations , but that as the temperature rises this divergence diminishes .
The following table gives the results of the three series of observations , which are also plotted on the curve , fig. 6 ; in two cases , the difference the observed and calculated results is so large that some misreading seems likely , otherwise the agreement is very satisfactory :\mdash ; TABLE I. ON THE FiFFECTIVE TEMPEiRATUR OF TH SUN .
and the determination of his high temperature appears to be wanting in certainty .
He finally obtains which do not agree with any formula hitherto given .
The least disagreement is found with an empirical expression given by but PASCHEN'S curve in which , as in our own , the abscissae are temperatures , and the ordinates radiation ) falls early as much below as it rises above STEFAN'S .
Taking , as a particular instance , PASCHEN'S observed radiation at 1273o and 1673o absolute ) and approximately , the fourth power law gives and 148 , while WEBER'S gives 76 and 570 .
PASCHEN'S results would therefore indicate a much more rapid rise in radiation than that indicated by our fourth power law ; in the case just loted the exponent would be about We are supported , however , in our adoption of the fourt power law , not by our own and STEFAN'S results , and LECONTE STEvEiNS ' conclusions , but also by some work of and in a very interesting way by an investigation of BOLTZwho deduces the law from the electro-magnetic theory of light .
S On the whole , therefore , we think there can be little doubt that , at least in the case of incandescent platinum , the increase of radiation with temperature may be most accurately expressed by the fourth power law , and that the divergent results obtained by different investigators are chiefly due to want of certainty in the determination of high temperatures , and in a less degree complication of apparatus , with its accompanying accumulation of small errors .
In the case of our own experiments , the temperature of the platinum strip is known with a of only some C. at a temperature of 150 C. ; the radiation falls directly on the radio-micrometer , and the proportionality of the deflections of the latter to the radiation falling upon it is strictly demonstrated by experiment .
It would seem , therefore , that the results cannot be far from the truth , which conclusion is largely rengthened the confirmations already mentioned .
It has been assumed that the deflections of the spot of light on the scale of the radio-micrometer are proportional to the amounts of radiation ] on the receiving surface of the instrument .
In the above experiments the extreme deflec- tion was about , and it therefore seemed necessary to determine by direct experiment whether this proportionality held up to this hi limit or rJot .
This was done in the following manner:\mdash ; A cube of boiling water was supported at a distance of about centims. from the * H. F. WEBER , ' Berlin Akad .
1888 , 2 , SCHNEEBELI , ' WIEDEMANN'S Annalen , ' 1884 , vol. 32 , p. 403 .
BOLTZMANN , ' , 1884 , vol. 32 , pp. 31 and 291 .
S [ It must bs noticed , however , that both and BOLTZ results were supposed to apply , strictly speaking , to \ldquo ; radiation from a surface of unit-emissive power , so the reement must not be insisted on too strongly .
All we can say is that , csults of particular experiments , the fourbh power law is found to hold very accul'atcly , and adopted .
] radio-micrometer ; between the two a wooden box , 4 inches square in section , placed to prevent id radiation from disturbing the latter ; tin and cardboard screens were also used for the same purpose , until we were assured that the only heat falling on the instrument was that from the lamp-blacked side of the cube , passing through a carefully-cut rectangular aperture , made in cardboard and fixed to the end of the wooden box close to the cube .
A horizontal edge of the aperture was divided into ten equal parts , and a wooden screen , with a straight edge , could be placed so as to close the aperture , or to leave any desired fraction of it open .
The proportionate area of apert .
ur open , and therefore the proportionate amount of heat falling on the instrument , was then given by the reading of the scale on the horizontal edge of the aperture .
The following Table II .
gives the results of two series of ments .
The first ON THE EFFECTIVE TEMPERATURE OF THE SUN .
column gives the area of apertu re , i.e. , the quantity of heat on the instrument ; the second gives the deflections ( in cent , ims .
on the scale , in the two series ; third gives the mean ; and the fourth gives the deflections calculated by a straight line formula , When the observed results are plotted down on curve paper ( fig. 7 ) , it will be seen at once that they form as nearly as can be a straight line ; and as the extreme deflection in these cases was , the proportionality of radiation and deflection is strictly demonstrated , up to the greatest value of the latter used .
in our experiments .
TABLE II .
It may be noticed here that as the temperature rises , law becomes more nearly a simple third-power law , while ours becomes a simple fourth-power law , so that if radiation from platinum , temperature of platinum , radiation from sun , temperature of sun , then , which gives when and thereabouts , a result differing by less than one degree from that obtained by the complete formula .
The simple form gives a great saving of time in calculating out the results of the tions , nnd we geoel.ally adopted it in the course of our work .
The only direction in which we can look for an explanation of the great difference between ROSETTI'S law and our own , is in that of his method of estimating his high temperatures , which appear to be somewhat uncertain , whereas we can feel confident in the accuracy of our own method to within at 1500o C. The chances are that his discs of metal were at a lower temperature than that assumed ( but not measured ) by him ; and if that were so , the differences between results and ours would be in the direction in which we find it .
THE EMISSIVE 0F PLATINUM AT HIGH TEMPERATURES .
ScHLEmRMACH h and ROSETTI have made experiments on this subject which at first sight appear to , but on examination confirm one another in an manner .
From the curves which SCHLEIERMACHER'S results give , we obtain the emissions at certain temperatures ( 1 ) from polished platinum , ( 2 ) from platinum covered with black oxide of copper , which may be assurned as approximately the same as that from a lamp-black surface .
The fourth column in the following table gives the ratio of the two emissions:\mdash ; The figures in the fourth column show a gradual fall in the ratio as the temperature rises .
ROSETTI , at an absolute temperature of about 1500o , found for the ratio , which falls in fairly satisfactorily with a theoretical continuation of results .
As it is impossible , with our present arrangement of apparatus , to keep the platinum lamp blacked at a high temperature , and as the ratio is evidently .
very slowly near the point at which ROSETII made his detertions , we shall use his ratio in ting our results , i. e. , we shall take WILD .
Aun 1885 , vol. 26 , p. 287 .
'Phil .
' vol. 8 , 1879 , p. 445 .
ON CTIVE TEMPERATURE OF THE SUN .
Absorption .
Until LANGLEY3 shed his " " Researches on Solar Heab , the with which nearly all observers agreed in giving a value of about 21 per cent. to the absorption of light and heat from a radiating body in the zenith , was so that there seemed little donbt as to the practical accuracy of this figure .
Yet , in every case , since under most favourable conditions the experiments must have been done with a thickness of at least one atmosphere , an assumption had to be made as to the effect which would have been produced without this thickness , and Professor LANGLEY showed conclusively that this assumption was not justified by the conditions of the problem .
The formula which had been most generally accepted as expressing the amount of radiation received from a body at altitudes is where bserve intensity of radiation , intensity of radiation on unit surface outside the limits of the atmosphere , " " constant which is the fraction showing the amount of absorption for a body in the zenith ; i. e. , the " " absorption co-efficient , \ldquo ; and thickness of the atmosphere , the value being taken as unity for a body in the zenith .
is approximately equal to sec. .
up to a zenithdistance of or In the case of the sun , is the solar constant .
One of the mistakes made by the older experimenters was that of assuming the quantity to be really a constant , which it is not .
It is , in fact , a function of two variables , viz. , the wave-length of the radiation , and , the of atmosphere traversed by the radiation .
( LANGLEY , in commenting on this fact , seems to have overlooked ROSETTI'S work , in which the increase of with is clearly and quantitatively stated .
) From the results of his work , LANGLEY obtains 41 per cent. as a probable approximation to the absorption of total radiation for a body in the enith .
His argument may be briefly summarized thus : The number of wave-lengtbs in a composite radiation is infinite .
Each wave length may have its own individual coefficient of absorption .
The coefficients of absorption will be infinite in number and will vary in value between and unity .
As " " some sort of adumbration of the complexity of nature 's problem and the , 'Professional Papers of the Signal Service , ' Washington , 1884 , and 'Phil .
Mag 1884 , vol. 18 , p. 289 .
method of his work he divides the radiant energy before absorption into ten parts , . .
having its own coeffcient of transmission , , . . .
, so that the total radiation outside our atmosphere being the intensity after passing through unit thickness of air ( i.e. , ] , a zenith obseryation ) will be after passing through two thicknesses will be and so on , assuming that \amp ; c. , remain constants for more than one integral value of , which is not exactly true .
Of course X is unknown from experiment , but , \amp ; c. , can be measured .
Then the ratio will give the transmission of the second thickness compared with the first , and the absorption , and similarly with the other series , and these may all agree within close limits .
The great mistake lay in assuming that if approximately , then the same ratio held for the first thickness .
By giving values of .
\amp ; c. , 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 9 , and while \amp ; c. , LANGLEY shows that this equality of the ratios is at once destroyed , and holds that this ugh division of the whole radiation into parts with varying coefficients of absorption , must give an approximation to the truth , Taking \amp ; c. , the total outside radiation , while \amp ; .
Then \amp ; .
, while so that instead of 31 per cent. being absorbed in one thickness of atmosphere , it may very well be double that absorption taking place .
We now come to an examination of ROSETTI'S careful investigation on this point .
He does not give the value of the absorption explicitly , but it may be deduced from the figures given by him on p. of his paper already quoted .
* Phil. Mag 1879 .
ON THE EFFECTIVE TEMPERATURE OF SUN .
From a large number of concordant observations he finally deduces a value of the solar constant in the scale divisions of his thermo-pile , while in the tables on p. 546 he gives the deflections corresponding to values of from up to We plotted these values on curve ) ( fig. 8 ) , and thus found 229 as corresponding deflection for the sun in the zenith , so that using the above symbols , .
The absorption for one thickness therefore equals So that 29 per cent. of the total outside radiation is absorbed , and 71 per cent. reaches the earth , with the sun in the zenith .
The ratios corresponding to other values of were similarly calculated , and the results plotted down , giving ) curve ( fig. 8 ) , the abscissae of which are zenith distances and the ordinates percentage absorptions .
The 29 per cent. thus deduced from ROSETTI'S results , it will be seen , is considerably greater than the old estimate , which we know to be incorrect , and less than the 41 per cent. of LANGLEY , which is indeed a to be , a priori , expected the following reason .
We know that by far th - greater proportion of the energy ( as properly measured by its heating effect ) in the solar radiation is confined within narrow limits of wave- length , and that for these wave-lengths atmospheric absorption is less than for the waves of higher .
The larger transmission coefficients in LANGLEY'S calculations should therefore have more weight given to them , and it would be possible to draw up another series with assumed coefficients , by which the 29 per cent. could be reproduced , with the 21 per cent. , 19 per cent. , \amp ; c. , following .
The difference then between ROSETTI'S and LANGLEY'S figures is in a direction which might be expected , and the results deduced from the work of the former may be assumed provisionally as an approximation to the truth .
Climatic conditions Ireland are such as to entirely prevent a good series of observations on this point ; a perfectly clear sky from morning to night , with a fairly constant hygrometic state of the atmosphere , is extremely rare .
ROSETTI , working under the unclouded skies of Northern Italy , was able to make a large number of observations at all hours of the day , with very consistent and apparently reliable results .
We have , therefore , determined to use the correcting factors for atmospheric absorption which have been deduced from his figures , so that whatever doubt may be thrown on the accuracy of his final result will affect ours in a certain proportion .
It is worth noting that YOUNG* gives 30 per cent. as the absorption in the zenith , but without indicatipg the means by which he arrives at this figure .
THE OLAR RADIATION .
The general method of making the final experiments has already been described .
The necessity for making observations with the sun shining ( 1 ) on the upper circuit of the on the lower circuit , arises from the unavoidable difference in the constants of the two cuits .
No special care had been taken in the construction of the instrument to make the receiving surfaces of equal size , and even if this had been possible , the electrical constants must have differed somewhat .
The only way of correcting for these differences is to take independent observations in the manner indicated , and to take the mean of the results .
A considerable difference between the figures obtained in the two positions was to be anticipated , and it will be seen that experiment confirms the anticipation .
As we have already pointed out , when a balancing temperature has been obtained , the ratio of the radiation from the sun to that from the platinum is obtained by multiplying together four factors .
They are : ( 1 ) The ratio of the apparent area of the sun to that of the platinum , as seen from the receiving surface of the radio-micrometer .
The former is obtained from the value of the sun 's semi-diameter , as given by the ' ' Nautical Almanac ' for the day of the observation .
The latter is a constant , the same " " stop\ldquo ; being always used in every position .
The angle subtended by a diameter of the stop was if angular diameter of the sun at the time of observation , we therefore have : of platinum ) .
area of sun * " " The Sun ' Intcrnat .
Sci. ' p. 262 .
A new stop was used fter S. 8th ; ON EFFECTIVE TEMPERATUR ] ] OF THE SUN .
( 2 ) The ratio of the incident radiation on the glass mirror of the heliostat to the reflected .
This was given by the use of FRESNEL'S formula where intensity of incident radiation , , , , , reflected , angle of incidence , , , , , refraction , which was obtained by putting in ordinary formula , The values thus otained for different angles of incidence were plotted down and a smooth curve drawn to give the value at any incidence ( fig. 9 ) .
In the figure , and , are points experimentally determined by photometric measurement check on the accuracy of the calculations .
( It may be noted here that the table given by JAMIN* is as referring to common light ; ib is correct for ) polarized in the plane of incidence .
We mention this as anyone who took accuracy of JAMIN'S figures for granted would imagine that our curve * ' Course de Physique , ' 4th editio1l , vol. 3 , p. 618 .
Sir J. has shown that the curve drawn from formula is verified by experiment to within per cent. at the angles of incidence generally used in our The of incidence is obtained at each experiment by finding the distance between the end of a certain steel rod in the heliostat and a collar which slides along it ; the .
corresponding to any ance could be found by means of a curve , which it is unnecessary to give here .
( 3 ) The ratio of the radiation outside our atmosphere to the amount which reaches the earth .
This is obtained by calculating the altitude from the known declination , hour angle , and latitude , and taking the percentage of absorption from the curve ( fig. 8 ) which we have already discussed .
( 4 ) The ratio of the emissivity of bright platinum to that of a lamp-blacked surface , which , as already mentioned , we take as 35 : 100 .
To take a typical case : Date , Sept. 4th , 1893 .
Declination N. diameter Time , , local .
Therefore altitude Balancing temperature 1514o absolute .
By ( fig. S ) absorption per cent. Thel.efore tran smission per cent. Diameter of Therefore Angle of incidence on glass refore amount of heat reflected per cent. Ratio of emissivity of platinum and lamp black Therefore the radiation from the sun is 78 .
of the platinum at a temperature of 1514o absolute .
The temperature of the sun is therefore absolute , according to this single observation .
It was not only necessary to take observations with the sun shining ( A ) into the lower circuit and ( B ) into the upper circuit , but , on account of possible differences in the state of the surfaces , back and front , of the copper foil receivers , it was essential * ' Phil. rans .
' 1889 , ( A ) , vol. 180 , p. 245 .
ON THE EFFECTIVE TEMPERATURE SUN .
to turn the whole radio-micrometer through an angle of , so that the heat from the platinum should now fall on that side of the receSurfaces on which previously the sun had shone .
The different positions are distinguished as follows:\mdash ; Position platinum heating upper circuit , and behind the small mirror fixed to the fibre of the radio-micrometer .
platinum heating lower circuit , and .
behind mirror .
instrument rotated through ; platinum in upper circuit , front of mirror .
platinum in lower circuit , .
in front of mirror .
The difference between positions and between and , we should , priori , to be small , and the experiments show that this is so , while , as we have already mentioned , larger differences between the A and positions were also to be anticipated from unavoidable dissimilarities in the two parts of the combined circuit .
One further point remains to be noticed , viz. , that the geometrical mean of the mean temperatures of the A and positions is not exactly the mean ture to be deduced from the on account of the curvature of the radiation curve .
To show what difference exists between the geometrical and the true mean , we may take the following numerical example : Mean balancing temperature in position 1600o absolute \ldquo ; , \ldquo ; Mean balancing temperature Now , to a temperature of 1600o , corresponds a radiation of 312 in our units ; to a temperature of 1300o , a radiation of 136 ; mean radiation But to a radiation of 224 , corresponds a temperature of 1472o , which is than the geometrical mean , and the value of approximately .
That is to say , we must add to the mean temperature .
correction of about 10 is therefore to be made on the final mean of all the observations , the separate details of which now follow .
day 's results are given by themselves , with data sufficiently full to allow of any single observation being calculated out .
The date , height of barometer , and notes on the weather are given metrical readings are not given , as no useful deductions can be made from them , as ROSETTI points out in his paper .
In the 1st column , the position is noted .
2nd , , the local time of the observation .
, , In the 3rd column , the readings on the meldometer scale at the moment of balance .
4th , , the absolute temperature corresponding to this reading .
.5th , , the sun 's altitude .
, , 6th , , percentage of transmission of the total solar heat through the earth 's atmosphere .
: , 7th , , the angle of incidence of the sunlight on t , he mirror of the heliostat .
8th the percentage reflection of the heat in the incident beam .
9th , , the absolute temperature of the sun as calculated from each single observation .
Date : September 3rd , 1893 .
Weather : Passing clouds .
Sky , no perceptible haze .
Barometer , in .
NorD.\mdash ; New platinu1u strip put in after hese observations were made .
Balance readings here refer to Calibration-line 2 .
ON THF , .39.3 MEANS 0F DAILY Position 7236o . . .
7 tions .
Mean Position . . .
7343o 5 observations .
7100o . . .
10 \ldquo ; Mean . . .
Mean of and Position . . .
5797o . . .
9 observntions .
5713o . . .
3 Mean . . .
Position 5884o . . .
9 observations . . . .
6 . . .
3 Mean . . .
Mean of and and , Therefore Mean result absolute .
To this 10 must be added for the reason on page 387 .
As there must necessarily be errors of observation , and as results on different days give values differing by as much as , chiefly owing , no doubt , to a change in atmospheric conditions , it has been considered unnecessary to go into certain refinements in the calculation such using the method of least squares .
The daily means have also been given equal weights , in spite of differences in the number of observations .
The geometrical instead of the al.ithmetical mean of the calculated temperature the A positions , is taken for the following reason : Let radiation due to sun falling on unit area of receiving ; and respective radiations due to platinum , also on unit area , when giving heat\mdash ; ( l ) to the upper surface ; ( 2 ) to the lower .
will , of course , be the same in the two positions ; effective a of upper surface ; lower , , , , using the word " " ective \ldquo ; to cover slight difference of absorptive power , \amp ; c. Then , if we suppose , First , the radiation due to the sun ffiling on the upper surface , the lower being sheltered from the platinum , we should have a deflection , and as deilecfions may be taken proportional to received radiation , then where is a constant .
, let the radiation from the platinum fall on the lower circuit , the sun being now cut off from the upper ; we shall have But if both effects are allowed to be produced , at the moment of balance and will be equal and opposite , and therefore Similarly , with the sun and platinum reversed as regards the upper and lower surfaces , while the same , becomes , and we have which gives immediately or ' from which the reason for taking the geometrical mean of the corresponding temperatures follows directly .
The final result , therefore , arrived at , is only given to the nearest 100 ; it is C. In conclusion , we may point out that this method would probably give excellent results , if a series of observations were undertaken to settle the question of how , or if , the solar temperature varies during a sun-spot cycle .
The instrument should , of course , be ON ECTIVE T RATURE OF TH SUN .
used in or near the tropics , where attnospheric conditions can be trusted remain more constant than in this country .
Any error in the absolute value obtained might probably be considered constant , so that comparative values from yeal to year might be trusted to indicate any change .
NOTE , ADDED APRIL , 1894 .
It has been mentioned in the paper that ROSETTI'S determination of the amount of the ( terrestrial ) atmospheric absorption has been used in the calculations of the effective solar temperature .
It may be well , however , to give the result obtained by using other estimates of this quantity , which ( after the law connecting radiation and temperature ) is the most important factor in the final value .
Taking LANGLEY'S estimate for zenith absorption , 41 per , instead of ROSETTI'S , 29 per cent. , the respective transmission coefficients being therefore 59 per cent. and 71 per cent. , the temperature would be multiplied by approximately ; i.e. , instead of 6200o , we should obtain .
But a later , and still higher , estimation of the zenith absorption has been made .
ANGSTRoM WIED .
xxxix .
has shown that the effect of the carbonic acid gas in the atmosphere is much more important than bad hitherto been supposed , and obtains 64 per cent. , as against ROSETTI'S 30 per cent. and LANGLEY'S per cent. This gives 36 per cent. as the transmission coefficient , and , taking this value , the temperature becomes* approximately And , to make the case general , if any later investigation shows the zenith transmission coefficient to be X per cent. , the ective temperature becomes .
It may also be of interest to see what effect is produced if absorption in the atmosphere of the sun itself is taken into account .
First , considering the ] in radiation from the central to the peripheral parts of the sun 's disc , from WILSON RAMBAUT'S paper ' On the Absorption of Heat in the Sun 's Atmosphere\ldquo ; ( ' Proc. R.I.A. , ' 1892 , 3rd series , vol. , p. 299 ) , we may deduce that , if the absorption were * The ratio of ] zenith-absorptions is practicalIy to that of ) with a greatelickness of atmosphere , at least down to a zenith-distance of everywhere equo ) to that at the centre , the radiation would be increased by 4/ 3 , and the temperature would become approximately 7900 Secondly , assuming WILSON and RAMBAUT'S result for the total loss due to absorption in the solar atmosphere\mdash ; viz. , that about one-third of the radiation is cut off\mdash ; the radiation would be multiplied by 3/ 2 if the sun 's atmosphere were removed , and our estimate of the temperature would have to be multiplied by , so that gain taking the highest value given bove as being probably nearest the truth ) we get finally We may therefore arize as follows:\mdash ; ffective tature of the sun , taking ( 1 ) ROSETTI'S estimate of loss in ) earth 's atmosphere C. ( 2 ) LANGLEY'S estimate . . . . .
C. ( 3 ) NGSTRoM'S estimate . . . . .
C. And finally , considering the probable effect of the sun 's own atmosphere , allowing for it by the figures ) in WILSON and RAMBAUT'S paper already quoted , and using the highest valuejust obtained , the effective temperature comes out as approximately C. NOTE , JULY , 1894 .
ations by the authors in connection with the temperature of the carbon of the electric arc , which are now in progress , lead the conclusion that the simple ower law of radiation used above is only an approximation to the truth , closer in the case of bare platinum than in that of blackened , so that the assumption made in the paper that both follow the same law is not strictly correct .
The new work will shortly be published , and will probably result in raising by a few hundred degrees the value obtained above .
It may be noticed , meanwhile , that the experimental figures given in this paper are sufficient to serve as a whateVer law of radiation may be used\mdash ; from which the solar temperature may be calculated with an accuracy increasing with a growth of more accurate knowledge as to the law of radiation , and the amount of the atmospheric absorption .

