V. " Summary of a Paper ( to be presented ) on the Influence of Oxygen on the vital properties of the Spinal Cord , Nerves , and Muscles .
" By E. BROWN-SEQUARDI , M.D. Communicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 25 , 1857 .
The influence of oxygen and carbonic acid on the living tissues , has been very little investigated , either by physiologists or practitioners of medicine .
I have made a great many experiments on this subject , but will relate here merely a few of them , which are sufficient to show that oxidation of the spinal cord and nerves , as well as that of muscles , increases their vital properties , sometimes in a high degree .
After the opening of the spinal canal , the dura-mater being laid bare , we find that an evident hyperesthesia appears after a short time in the parts of the body which are behind the opening , and also on the same level with it , and a little above it .
I think this increase of sensibility depends on the absorption of oxygen .
To ascertain that it is so , with the help of a special apparatus , immediately after laying bare the cord , I pump out the air in contact with the cdura-mater , and sl:bstitlte for it hydrogen .
Then I find that no increase of sensibility takes place , at least during several hours .
I then pump out the hydrogen , and inject atmospheric air , and in a few minutes the posterior parts of the body become hypersesthetic .
When the posterior columns of the spinal cord have been divided transversely , there is , as I found long ago , an excessive hyper .
westhesia in all the parts of the body situated behind the section , and also in some of the parts immediately above it .
This hyper " aesthesia begins almost at once after the operation , and increases for many hours , and sometimes for one or two days .
It diminishes a little afterwards , and if there is no myelitis , it continues to exist , though less than at first , for years after the operation .
A part of this hyperaesthesia ( its great excess during the first hours and days ) , I have recently found to depend chiefly upon the influence of the oxygen of the air .
If we perform the section of the posterior columns of the spinal cord , and cover the wound immediately afterwards with the apparatus above-mentioned , and pump out the air and inject hydrogen , we find that there is a delay in the development of hyperaesthesia , and that it is never as considerable as when air is in contact with the injured cord .
If we replace the hydrogen by air , there is a rapid increase of the hyperaesthesia , and there is still more so if we inject pure oxygen .
When the hypersesthesia has once become excessive , hydrogen does not diminish it .
If carbonic acid is injected , slight convulsive movements are produced , and sensibility soon diminishes .
Analogous experiments on sensitive and motor nerves show that in them also an increase of the vital properties is produced by oxygen , and that a diminution after an excitation is produced by carbonic acid .
Experiments on the abdominal sympathetic give similar results .
Rolando and others have found that the gray matter which is in the rhomboidal ventricle of the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord in birds , is not excitable either to give pain or produce movement .
I have ascertained that normally it is but little excitable , but that when it has been exposed to the contact of air for some 10 or 15 minutes , it is extremely excitable , particularly for the production of movements .
This , perhaps , explains the curious disturbance in the voluntary movements which I found some years ago in birds , on which this gray matter had been simply laid bare .
From these facts , and a great many others , it results that in the spinal cord , the sensitive and motor nerves , and the sympathetic , as well as in muscles , there is an increase of the vital properties produced by oxygen .

