444 The Total Solar Eclipse of August 9 , 1896 .
These numbers show that the chromospheric spectrum is largely 1 composed of enhanced metallic lines in addition to the lines of I hydrogen and the cleveite gases .
In the Fraunhofer spectrum enhanced lines may be regarded as f wanting , for in the case of iron and magnesium , at least , they only appear with the feeble intensities which they have in the arc i spectrum , while the characteristic arc lines are strong .
Here then we find the cause of the dissimilarity of the chromospheric and Fraunhofer spectrum , which is indicated by the following figures:\#151 ; Ho. of Fraunhofer lines tabulated by Rowland in the region F to K ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5694 Ho. of lines photographed in the same region , eclipse Percentage of Fraunhofer lines ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3 Ho. of lines photographed in the same region , eclipse 1896 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 464 Percentage of Fraunhofer lines ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
8 Clearly then , the chromosphere as photographed in the eclipses of 1893 and 1896 , is a region of high temperature in which there is a corresponding simplification of spectrum as compared with the cooler region in which the Fraunhofer absorption is produced .
" The Total Solar Eclipse of August 9 , 1896 .
Report on the Expedition to Kio Island .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The observing party consisted of Mr. Fowler , Dr. W. J. Lockyer , and myself , and the selection of Kio Island as an observing station was rendered possible by the grant of the'services of H.M.S. " Volage .
" Although the expedition failed in its main objects , because of unfavourable weather , it is considered desirable to put on record an account of the arrangements which had been made to secure observations , more especially as a new feature was introduced in the training of a large number of officers and men to take part in the observations .
Profiting by the experience gained in previous eclipses , prismatic cameras of the highest available powers were taken out , as well as a powerful integrating spectroscope .
To supplement the work of these photographic instruments , a number of prisms and small slit spectroscopes were provided for use by such assistants as were available .
The voluntary services of 74 officers and men of H.M.S. On the Classification of Stars of the 6 " .
44a " Yolage " made it possible to extend the original programme so as to include records of all the attendant phenomena .
The paper gives an account of the preparation of instruments and huts , and of the oi-ganisation of the " Volage " observers into parties for different branches of the work .
For the benefit of others who may be similarly circumstanced on future occasions , full particulars of these working parties and the instructions issued to them are included in the paper , and the arrangements for working the larger instruments are also described .
On the morning of the eclipse the sky was almost entirely overcast , and the sun was quite invisible during totality .
No photographs were obtained , but some observations of temperature , colours of the landscape , and the general phenomena of totality were secured .
As shown by two thermometers screened from the direct rajs of the sun , the temperature fell 09 ' F. from first contact to totality , and rose the same amount between totality and last contact .
A fully exposed thermometer at another place indicated a fall of 6-5 ' F. , * and a subsequent rise of 1-5 ' F. during the same intervals .
" On the Classification of Stars of the d Cephei Class .
By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 17 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
Introduction .
The spectrum of c Cephei is one of a group with special characteristics .
While containing a great number of fine metallic lines , giving it more or less the same general appearance as the solar spectrum , it shows many lines which are either faint in the solar spectrum or are altogether absent .
In a former paper* I showed that the spectrum is practically identical with that of 7 Cygni , which my previous work had indicated to be a star of increasing temperature.t The chief argument which I had employed in favour of placing 7 Cygni on the ascending"side of the temperature curve was based on the presence of certain special lines , which occur with increased importance , in the spectrum of cl Cygni , which differs very widely from the solar spectrum , and has a close relationship to the Orion stars .
Further , the association of a special kind of variability with some of the stars having a spectrum of this type seemed to strengthen the view that the constitution of such stars must be vastly different from that of the sun .
Dr. Yogel , however , has classified two stars of the same group as c Cephei , namely^ \gt ; / Aquiloe and 10 Sagittae , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 103 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 184 , p. 718 .

