]\gt ; The Removal of Water .
IL ' The Removal of Micro-organisms from Water By PERCY F. FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.C.S. , Assoc. R. Sch .
Mines , Demonstrator of Chemistry in the Normal School of Science , South Kensington Museum .
Communicated by E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1885 .
The overwhelming evidence which has been now accumulated of the fact that some at least of the diseases called " " zymotic\ldquo ; are propagated by means of living organisms , renders interesting to discover in what manner such organisms may be removed from the media\mdash ; air and water\mdash ; through which they are in general distributedIn the following pages I have the honour to bring before the Royal Society the results of some experiments upon which I have been recently e1lgaged , with a view to discover whether and to what extent micro-organisms may be removed from water by submitting this medium to some of the various processes of treatment which are in vogue for its purification .
For although the chemic.al efficiency of numerous methods of water-purification has been largely ittle has been done in the matter of determining .
value as agents for the removal of micro-organisms .
The method of investigation which I have adopted was to take water in which the number of organisms was approximately submit this to treatment in such a manner as not to introduce extraneous organisms during the experiment , and then determine the number of organisms which remained in a given of the water after treatment .
Since we are doubtless at present only acquainted with a few of the micro-organisms which are capable of producing disease , it appeared to me to be , iri the first instance , desirable to study the question irrespectively of the nature of the organisms , and only to take into consideration their aggregate number before and after treatment .
Moreover the employment of specific organisms would in all cases have greatly enhanced the difficulty of the experiments , and would in some cases have actually rendered them impossible .
The organisms generally used in these experiments were those which develope in diluted urine after exposure to the air .
The solution was further diluted more or less with water so as to obtain 1 : liquid containing a convement number of organisms in a ) given volume .
The method of determining the numt ) of organisms present in the waters , both .
before and after treatment , was , with a few modifications , that devised by Koch , in which a definite volume of water is mixed with ster.ilised nutritive gelatine and then poured out upon a .
P. F. Frankland .
glass plate , when , after the lapse of a few days , the colonies from the individual centres of life can be counted by means of and from this the number present in a cubic centimetre or any volume of water can be calculated .
The following is a description the exact mode of procedure adopted:\mdash ; of the Number of Micro-organisms in Water .
The nutritive gelatine was prepared thus : .
of lean meat finely minced and then infused with litre of water for 1\mdash ; 2 the solid part being then strained off through linen .
100 white French gelatine is allowed to soak in another litre of and to this the extract of meat ained above is added .
The is now boiled for a few minutes to complete the solution ; 10 grams peptone and 1 gram of common salt are then added and The mixtul.e so obtained gives an acid reaction , which is carefully neutralised with carbonate of soda .
The liquid is now clarified by beating in the contents of two or three eggs along with the broken shells , the whole being briskly boiled for a few minutes .
The coagulated albumen rises to the surface and carries with it the other solid particles in the liquid .
On bhen straining through linen , an almost clear liquid is obtained , which is finally clarified by passing through filter-paper kept hot by means of a water-jacket .
On cooling this liquid , it sets to a yellowish..brown transparent jelly .
Whilst still liquid it is poured into clean test-tubes , so that each of these contains 2 or 3 .
The test-tubes are tightly plugged with cotton-wool , and then sterilised by steaming them for half an hour , on three consecutive days .
Tubes thus prepared were found to keep for an indefinite period of time .
The glass plates destined to receive the film of gelatine well washed , and then placed in a copper box provided with a tightly fitting lid , the whole being sterilised by heating for at least three hours to 15 C. The glass dishes in which the gelatine plates are placed during the development of the organisms were always well washed , and then rinsed with a 2 per cent. soIution of mercuric chloride immediately before use .
Some of the same solution of mercuric chloride was poured into the bottom dish , so as to preserve the internal atmosphere sa , turated with 1noisture , and ] two dishes were always placed in a porcelain tray containin a solution of mercuric chloride , so that the interior of the dishes was disconnected from the outside air by means of a mercuric chloride seal , whereby all ingress of organisms from the atmosphere was prevented during incubation .
The dishes also contained a small glass tripod , bearing a glass plate , the surface of which was carefully levelled by placing the disbes on a table provided with three screws .
When the apparatus is thus prepared , the sterilised plate is rapidIy transferred to the levelled plate , the gelatine is carefully melted in Removal of ganisms from Water .
test-tube , and before removing the cotton-wool plug the latter is burnt outside , so as to destroy any organisms that may be adhering to the exterior .
A given number of of the water or other liquid under examination are now troduced into the opell test-tube by means of a pipette , which has been previously sterilised by beating it nearly to redness in a Bunsen flame .
The water and liquid gelatine are mixed by agitation , and then quickly poured out on to the sterilised plate , the glass cover being immediately replaced .
The whole operation is so managed that the time of exposure to the air is reduced to a minimum .
A solution of lric chloride is then poured into the porcelain tray as already , and when the gelatine has set , which generally takes place in about ten minntes , the dishes are placed in a cupboard , and maintained at a temperature of C. After a period of incubation , varying from3\mdash ; 6 , the organisms make their appearance in isolated colonies , which may be readily couuted with the assistance of a lens .
The operation of is greatly facilitated by placing the plate on a black ound , ruled in squares .
That when due precautions are taken in the execution of this process little or no appreciable error is introduced by the unavoidable but momentary contact of the gelatine with the air , was proved by making blank experiments , in which all the abovementioned operations , excepting the addition of water , were performed , and in these cases no organisms were found .
Additional proof of this is also furnished by the fact that on several occasions no organisms were found in the of the experiments to described below .
The experiments were in nearly all cases made in duplicate , the concordance in the results of parallel experiments being , on the whole , very satisfactory ; occasionally , however , wide discrepancies did occur , but these could in most cases be accounted for the water examination not having been rendered sufficiently homogeneous by agitation .
Experiments on the intering Power of Different ubstances .
The substances selected for experiment were natural greensand , silver sand , powdered glass , brickdust , coke , animal charcoal , and spongy iron .
These substances were all obtained in a fine state of division by powdering them in a mortar , and then passing them through a sieve ( 40 meshes to the inch ) .
The filters were constructed of pieces of glass tubing ( 1 inch diameter ) , drawn off at one extremity to a small aperture ; the latter was plugged wibh a small quantit of asbestos , and upon this was placed a column 6 inches in height of the closely packed filtering material , the surface of which was again by Dr. P. F. Frankland .
a thin layer of asbestos .
Before use , the filter thus prepared sterilised by heating it to a temperature above 15 C. for at three hours .
After sterilisation the filter was at once put in tion supplying the infected water at the wide end of the tube , filtered water being collected when required in a vessel sterilised the same way beneath the lower extremity of the tube .
In experiments in which the filtration was carried on for many days , even weeks , the infected water was constantly supplied to the by means of an inverted flask fitted with a delivery-tube , the dipping into the water above the filtering material .
The results were obtained with the various materials:\mdash ; Greensand.\mdash ; The urinous water passed through this filter , on starting , at the rate of inches per hour .
The sand was highly ferru , and the filtered water contained a ) proportion of iron .
On examining the unfiltered water , it was found to contain 64 of life in one , and 97 centres per .
in a duplicate experiment ; these consisted almost wholly of organisms causing liquefaction of gelatine , a few fungi , and the remainder small spherical coIonies .
In the filtered water , on the othex hand , there were no organisms of any description discoverable .
The filtration had thus completely the water .
In order to ascertain whether the greensand would continue to exercise this influence , the arrangement for continuous filtration , already described , was put in operation , and after being in action for thirteen days , during which time litres of water passed through , the efficiency of the filter was again tested .
unfiltered urinewater was found to contain 8193 centres per .
The filtered water was found to contain 1071 centres per .
These experiments show that although the original power of the greensand was broken down , the filter was still arresting a considerable proportion of the organisms present in the water passing through it .
The efficiency of the filter was again determined after the continuous filtration had proceeded for one month , when 20 litres of water had passed through .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; The water contained . .
1281 centres per The filtered , , , , . .
779 \ldquo ; On the whole , herefore , even after the lapse of an entire month , notable proportion of the organisms was still being removed by the greensand filter .
Animal Charcoal.\mdash ; Perfectly similar experiments were made with this well-known filtering material .
On examining the initial efficienoy of the filter , it was found that whereas the unfiltered water contained so many organisms that the gelatine on the plates had become The Removal of Micro-Organisms from Water .
liquefied , the filtered water did not contain in either of two experiments any organism whatever .
The filter had tbus completely sterilised the water passing through it .
The rate of filtration was considerably less rapid than in the case of the greensand , being only inch per hour .
Continuous filtration was then carried on for twelve days , during which time 42litres of water passed through , after which the unfiltered and filtered waters were again examined .
The unfiltered water contained . .
2792 centres per c.c. The filtered , , , , . .
No organisms of any kind .
Thus the efficacy of the filter remained unimpaired after twelve days ' continuous action .
After acting for one month , litres of water having passed { hrough , the waters were again examined .
The lltered water contained . .
1281 centres The filtered , , , , . .
6958 Thus at the end of one month the filter was actually delivering water more highly impregnated with organic life than that with which it was supplied .
Spongy Iron.\mdash ; The filtering power of this material was also examined by means of a similar of experiments .
The rate of filtration at the commencement was inches per hour , and the results were obtained :\mdash ; Unfiltered water contained . . . .
80 centres per , , , , . . . .
No organisms whatever .
After twelve days ' continuous filtration , litres of water having passed through , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; Unfiltered water contained . .
2792 centres per c.c. Filtered , , , , . .
No organisms whatever .
Again , at the close of one month 's continuous filtration , es of water having passed through , the examination was repeated:\mdash ; Unfi ltered water contained . .
1281 centres per Fdterel , , , , . .
2 , The column of spongy iron , 6 inches in depth , was thus able to remove all the organisms from the water for upwards of twelve days , and even at the end of the month , the water after filtration was almost destitute of organic life .
The rate of filtration was , however , greatly ished in the course of the month during which the filter was in operation .
It is worthy of notice that the organisms found in the filtered water were all of the same kind , and caused no liqueDr .
P. F. Frankland .
faction of the gelatine , whilst a number of khose in the water produced liquefaction of this medium .
\mdash ; The following results were obtaixled with a filter structed similarly to the above , and charged with pulverised brick , the powder being passed through the before-mentioned sieve .
Initial efficiency .
Unfiltered water contained . .
3112 centres per Filtered , , , , . .
732 After being in action for five weeks , during which time of water passed through the filter\mdash ; Unfiltered water contained . .
5937 centres per , , , , . .
406 This material , therefore , does not wholly remove the organisms , even fresh , but it continues , even after five weeks , to remove considerable proportion of them .
Coke.\mdash ; With this material , which was also used in the same of division , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; Initial efficiency .
tfiltered water contained . .
3112 centres per Filtered , , , , . .
No organisms whatever .
After being in action for five weeks , when litres of water had pa ssed through\mdash ; Unfiltered water contained . .
5932 centres per Filtered , , , , . .
86 , This substance , therefore , possesses filtering powers which are second only to those of spongy iron ; at the outset the result is equally perfect with both , and even at the close of five weeks ' continuous work the coke removes a large proportion of the micro-organisms present in the unfiltered water .
Moreover , the rate of filtration through coke was considerably greater .
In the case of the coke , as in that of the spongy iron , the organisms found in the filtered water were almost exclusively of one kind , only one colony causin liquefaction , forming an exception .
Silver Sand.\mdash ; Owing to the highly ferruginous character of the greensand employed in the previous experiments , and bearing in mind the well-known antiseptic properties of salts of iron , it was deemed advisable to investigate the filtering power of sand free iron .
The silver sand employed for this purpose was digested for some days with hydrochloric acid , the latter then carefully washed out , and the 4ilter sterilised as already described .
The following esults were obtained with this material:\mdash ; The Removal of Micro-Organisms from Water .
The rate of filtration was exceedingly rapid , , 1 inch in less two minutes , or more than SO inches per hour .
The number of found in the unfiltered and filtered waters respectively Unfiltered water . . . . . .
11,282 centres per Filtered , , . . . . .
1,012 \ldquo ; Thus already at the outset the silver sand filter fails to arrest all the organisms in the water , although it very considerably diminishes their number , even when the rate of filtration is exceedingly rapid .
Powdered Glass.\mdash ; This material also was employed , with a view to determining the value of non-ferruginous siliceous matter .
The rate of filtration in this case was also very great , , 1 inch in less than eight minutes .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; Unfiltered water . . . .
11 , centres per Filtered , , . . . .
792 The resuIts obtained with the powdered glass very closely resemble those obtained from the silver sand ; but as neither were efficient filters , even at the outset of their action , no further experiments were made with them .
Removal of by Agito:tion coith Solid Matter .
The above experiment show that micro-organisms may be more or less completely removed by mere contact with solid particles , some of which are incapable of exerting any chemical action upon them ; it therefore appeared of interest to ascertain whether these organisms may be removed by the water with the same substances , and then allowing them to subside .
The experiments undertaken with this object were conducted in the following manner:\mdash ; 50 .
of urine-water , in which the number of organisms was determined , were placed in a small accurately stoppered bottle , pre- viously sterilised by being heated to C. , for at least three hours .
A given weight of the substance was placed in a small test-tube , plugged with cotton-wool , and then sterilised in the same way .
The sterilised substance was then transferred to the water in the stoppered bottle , and the latter violently shaken for a definite length of time , after which it was allowed to stand at rest until complete subsidence had taken place .
Some of the clear supernatant liquid then taken out with a pipette , and examined for organisms by means of gelatins cultivation in the manner already described .
The substances were in all cases employed in the same state of division as in the filtration experiments .
Dr. P. F. Frankland .
Spongy Iron.\mdash ; 5 grams of this substance were shaken up 50 c.c. of urine-water in one for one minute , and in another fifteen minutes ; in both cases the waters were subsequently to subside for half an hour before examination .
The following were obtained:\mdash ; Untreated water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
609 centres per Treated , , shaken for .
1 minu. .
28 15 minutes 63 , , \ldquo ; Thus the reduction in the number of organisms by agitation exceedingly marked , and cnriously the most favourable result obtained when the was only continued for a single A pure cultivation was not obtained in the treated water , some producing liquefaction of gelatine , and others not , thus presenting contrast to the results obtained by filtration through this material .
Chalk.\mdash ; 1 gram of water was shaken up with 50 .
of uriuswater for fifteen minutes , and then allowed to subside for five hours .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; Untreated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8325 centres per Water after l5 minutes ' agitation with chalk 274 , , A very large reduction indeed in the nllmber of organisms was thus obtained .
Animal Charcoal.\mdash ; 1 gram of animal charcoal was shaken up with 50 .
urine-water for fifteen minutes , and then allowed to subside nearly five hours .
The following resnlts were obtained:\mdash ; Untreated water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8325 centres per Water 15 ' agitahon with animal .
60 \ldquo ; The ciency of the animal charcoal in this respect is thus very markedly greater than that of chalk .
Coke.\mdash ; 1 gram of coke was shaken up with 50 .
of urine-water , and then allowed to subside for forty-eight hours , as the water did nob clear before .
The following results were obtained : \mdash ; Untreated water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Too numerous to be counted .
Water after 15 minutes ' agitation with coke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No organisms whatever .
It thus appears simple agitation with coke for fifteen minutes is sufficient to entirely remove all organisms .
Chinco Clay.\mdash ; 1 gram of this was shaken for fifteen minutes with 50 .
of urine-water ; subsidence was nob complete for five days .
On examining the clear water it was found to yield a very large numbor of organisms indeed , thus showing that subsidence with The Removal.of Micro-Organisms from Water .
divided matter like clay is not conducive to the separation of lisms .
A similar result was obtained with brickdust , which , however , did take quite so long to subside .
Effect of Subsidence on Micro-organisms in Water .
As in the above agitation experiments the water for examinatio1l always taken from the clear upper layers , it became of interest to whether the organism would not , by subsidence alone , out from the upper layers without the influence of solid In order to ascertain this , three sterilised Winchester bottIes filled up to the shoulder with urine-water , and plugged with cotton-wool .
The bottles were placed in a room ( temperature C. and left at perfect rest ; the number of organisms in the .water was ascertained at the outset of the experiment , at end of six hours the number was determined in one of the bottles , the end of twenty-four hours in the second bottle , and lastly , at the of forty-eight hours in the third bottle .
The numbers found were follows : \mdash ; No. of centres found per Hours of subsidence . .
of water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,073 These experiments show that far from there being any tendency for the upper layers of water to become deprived of organisms by subsidence , the tendency is for the number to increase very rapidly indeed .
Effect of Clark 's Process on Xicro-organisms in Water .
Owing to the encouraging results obtained by agitating water with finely divided chalk , it appeared probable that still more striking effects would be obtained if the chalk were present in a more fineIy divided state , such as is the as whe'n water is softened by means of lime ( Clark 's process ) .
In order to the effect of Clark 's process in this respect , three stoppered Winchester bottles were taken , and to each were added 2 litres of ordinary Thames water , to which some urine-water had been added , so as to impart a convenient number of organisms .
To two of these bottles 100 .
of clear lime-water gram were added , ated to parts of carbonate of lime per 100,000 parts of the water .
Each of these bottles was violently shaken , and then allowed to subside for eighteen hours .
The third bottle , to which no lime-water added , V0L .
xxxvu1 .
2 Dr. P. F. Franklamd .
was first tested for the number of organisms contained in the nsed in the experiment .
After eigbteen hours the two which lime-water had been added were tested without the precipitate , and also the third bottle containing the ater which had been left at rest in the same place as the other The following resuIts were obtained:\mdash ; Untreated water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
85 centres per after 18 hours ' rest . . . . . .
1,922 , Water after Clark 's process and 18 hours ' subsidence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
42 In order to appreciate the real effect of the treatment by process , it is necessary that the treated waters should } ) llot with the original water , but with the latter after eighteen rest , for this shows what the condition of the water would have beeA at the time of esting if no lime-water had been added .
It is evident that after the snbsidence of the carbonate of lime precipitate has taken place , there is every probability of the organisms becoming again distributed throughout the upper layers of the water , and with a view of determining whether this actually takes place or not , same waters which had remained well stoppered and at rest were again tested after the lapse of ten days .
It was then found that the untreated as well as the softened waters contained immense numbers of organisms in their upper layers .
As the effect of Clark 's process in organisms from water appeared to be of great practical importance , the above experiments were repeated , the ions being essentially the same as before .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; Untreated water . . . . . . . . .
37 centres per after ' rest 42 , after 48 hours ' rest 298 \ldquo ; Water after Clark 's process and 21 hours ' subsidence . . . . . . . .
22 \ldquo ; Water after Clark 's process and 48 hours ' subsidence . . . . . . . . . .
166 Owin to the number of organisms in the original water having been very much smaller , the results are not so pronounced as in the former case , the main facts are , however , fully substantiated .
It appeared also to be of interest to ascertain what resuIts are obtainable on the large scale .
For this purpose tlJe process of softening as practised at the Colne Valley Waterworks at Bushey , near Watford , was investigated , as well as the new modification of Clark 's process devised by Messrs. Gaillet and Hnet , which is now in tion at Mr. Duncan 's , Clyde Wharf , Victoria Dock .
I am The Removat of Micro-Organisms from Wate ' Mr. Verini , of the Colme Valley Waterworks , as well as to Duncan and lVIr .
Newlands , for their kindness in permitting me carry out these experiments .
At the Colne Valley Waterworks , the hard water obtained from a deep well in the chalk is mixed with the requisite proportion of clear lime-water , and then allowed to settle in open tanks .
The subsidence is so rapid that under favourable circumstances the upper layers of water are , after three hours ' time , fit for distribution .
On the occasion of my visit , however , boring operations were being carried on , and the water was in consequence , and the necessary subsidence after softening had to be increased to two days .
I was unfortunately unable to obtain a perfectly representative sample of the water before softening , and the number of organisms found in the untreated water is probably in excess of that which was actually present in the unsoftened water itself .
The following resuIts were obtained : \mdash ; Unsoftened water . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
per Water after softening and 2 days ' subsidence ( from main ) . . . . . .
4 , The almost complete absence of organisms in the softened water shows how perfect a result is obtained even on the large scale .
In the process of softening , due to Messrs. and Huet as practised at Mr. Duncan 's , the water from an artesian well is mixed with a suitable propoltion of lime-water and caustic soda , the mixture being then made to pass ) wards through a tower provided with diaphragms , which accelerate the precipitation of the carbonate of lime .
The passage through this tower occupies a period of about hours .
Samples of water before and after treatment were examined with the following results:\mdash ; Well water . . . . . . . . . . . .
182 centres per ( 38 caused liquefaction of gelatine .
) after softening 4 centres per ( None of centres caused liquefaction of gelatine .
) These experiments , as well as those made in the laboratory , show that the softening of water by Clark 's process is attended with a great reduction in the number of organisms , the best results being obtained when the clear liquid is separated from the precipitated carbonate of lime as speedily as Pasteur 's Filter.\mdash ; Through the kindness of Colonel Sir Francis BoIton , R.E. , I have had the opportunity of examining one of the above filters , in which the water is made to pass through a cylinder of biscuit-porcelain .
The one with which my experiments were made Dr. P. F. Frankland .
consisted of ten such cylinders , and the water ordinary water ) was forced through under a pressure of between 30 and of water .
Under these circumstances the filter commenced by ing 1 litre in 40 minutes , or 36 lilres per 24 hours , but already at end of a fortnight 's continuous aotion it was only delivering 1 litre 1 hour 14 minutes , or rather less than 20 litres per 24 hours ; after months the rate of filtration was 1 litre in 1 hour 22 or litres in 24 hours .
The ater both before and after filtration was examined for microe organisms with the following results:\mdash ; Thames water . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
54 centres per cx .
afterfiltration . .
The water before and after filtration was also submitted to cal analysis with the following result:\mdash ; ResuIts of Analysis expressed in Parts per 100,000 .
It thus appears that although this filter , when new , effects the complete removal of the micro-organisms in the water , it has but a very trifling influence upon the chemical composition of the water , the only change in this respect being , slight diminution in the amount of mineral matter present .
Xicro-organisms in Potable Water .
I have also submitted numerous samples of natural , ters of different origin to examination for the number of micro-organisms hich they contain .
My investigation in this direction is , however , still far from complete , but I append the results which I ha.ve obtainsd from a monthly examination of the various waters supplied to the Metropolis during the present year .
When the history of the water is accurateIy 1885 .
] The Removal of Miero-Organisms from Wuter .
known , and due precautions in collecting samples have been taken , there can be doubt that in many cases it is capable of throwing considerable light upon the quality of water and in assisting to interpret the results of chemical analysis .
The method of collecting samples which has been employed by me is the following:\mdash ; Small ( about 3 oz. ) bottles , accurately stoppered , and sterilised by being heated to C. for at least three hours , are kept tightly stoppered until they are to be used .
In taking the sample , the olltside of the bottle is well washed in a stream of the water to be examined , the stopper is then removed , the bottle nearly filled with water , and the stopper replaced as rapidly as possible .
The examination of the water should follow as soon as possible after collection .
The following resuIts were obtained with samples taken as above from the mains of the various companies supplying London:\mdash ; It would be premature to draw any conclusions from these resnlf , and I purpose to continue these observations over a longer period of time .
The waters were also at the same time submitted to chemical analysis , so that their biological and chemical characters might be compared ; the results are given below .
General Condusions .
Of the substances experimented with , only greensalld , coke , animal charcoal , and spongy iron were found to wholly remove the from water filtering through them , and this power was in every case lost after the filters had been in operation for one month .
With the exception of the animal charcoal , however , all these substances , even after being in action for one month , continued to remove a very considerable proportion of the organisms present in the unfiltered water , and in this respect spong.y iron and coke occupy the first place .
A General Theory of Mathematical Form .
The resuIts obtained by agitating water with various solid materials show that a very great reduction in the number of suspsnded organisms may be accomplished by this mode of treatment , and the complete removal of all organisms by agitation with coke is especially worthy of notice .
( 3 .
) Again , the resuIts obtained with Clark 's process show that we possess in this simple and useful mode of treating water a means of greatly reducing the number of snspended organisms .
Thus , although the production in large quantity of sterilised potable water is a matter of great difficulty , involving the continual renewal of filtering materials , there are numerous methods of treatment which a large reduction in the number of organisms present .
Moreover , in judging of the value of filtering materials from examinations of this kind , it is only reasonable that a preference should be given to those materials with which a practically pure cuItivation is obtained in the filtrate over those materials appear to exercise no selective action upon micro-organisms .
In sion , I would point out that it is very desirable that experiments of this kind should be greatly multiplied and repeated under varying conditions , and it is my intention to continue and extend this examination .
III .
" " A Memoir troductory to a General Theory of Mathematical Form By A. B. KEMPE , M.A. , F.B.S. Received May 18 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir is divided in to 426 short sections which are arranged under 42 heads .
Each head is given in the abstract , with a brief reference to the nature of the sections it comprises , except in the of the second head , , " " Fundamental Principles the sections under which are given almost in full .
SS 1\mdash ; 2 .
Scope of the MeJnoir .
The object of the memoir is the treatment of the " " matter " " of exact or mathematical thought as a connected whole ; the separation of its essential elements from the accidental clothing\mdash ; algebraical , geometrical , logical , \amp ; c.\mdash ; in which they aro usually presented for conside , ration ; and the indication of that to which the infinite vax.iety which those elements exhibit is due .
The memoir is introductory only , comprising the statement of fundamental principles , and the vindication of their truth by a sufficient variety of applications .

