80 Capt. Abney and Lieut.-Col. Festing .
[ Mar. 15 , -by transient vertical indnction in soft iron is small , and of the same valne ( nearly ) for ships of similar construction .
7 .
The preceding conclusions point to the conditions which should govern the selection of a suitable position for the standard compass with regard to surrounding iron in the ship .
II .
" Atmospheric Absorption in the Infra-Red of the Solar Spectrum .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Lieut.-Colonel Festing , R.E. Received March 5 , 1883 .
Any investigations on the subject of atmospheric absorption are of such importance in the study of meteorology , that we have deemed it advisable to present a preliminary notice of certain results obtained by us , without waiting to present a more detailed account which will be communicated at .
a future date .
From 1874 , when one of us commenced photographing the spectrum in the above region , till more than ' a year ago , the extremely various manners in which the absorptions took place caused considerable perplexity as to their origin , and it was only after we had completed our paper on the absorption of certain liquids , * that a clue to the phenomena was apparently found .
Since that time we have carefully watched the spectrum in relation to atmospheric moisture , and we think that more than a year 's observations in London , when taken in connexion with a month 's work , at an altitude of 8,500 feet on the Eiffel , justify the conclusions we now lay before the Society .
A study of the map of the infra-red region of the solar spectrum , + and more especially a new and much more complete one , which is being prepared for presentation to the Royal Society by one of us , shows that the spectrum in this part is traversed by absorption lines of varyirig intensity .
Besides these linear absorptions , photographs taken on days of different atmospheric conditions , show banded absorptions superposed over them .
These latter are step by step absorptions increasing in intensity as they approach the limit of the spectrum at the least refrangible end .
In the annexed diagram , fig. 4 shows the general appearance of this region up to A 10,000 on a fairly dry day t the banded absorption is small , taking , place principally between X , 9420 and A 9800 : a trace of absorption is also visible between A 8330 and A 9420 .
On a cold day , with a north-easterly * " The Influence of the Atomic Groupings of the Molecules of Organic Bodies on their Absorption in the Infra-Red Region of the Spectrum. .
" Phil. Trans. , Part III , 1881 .
f " Phil. Trans. , " 1880 .
x The lines shown in the diagram are merely reference fines , and have nothing to do with the absorptions under consideration .
1883.1 Atmospheric Absorption .
wind blowing , and also at a high altitude on a dry day , these absorptions nearly if not quite disappear .
If we examine photographs taken when the air is nearly saturated with moisture ( in some form or another ) we have a spectrum like fig. 1 .
Except with very prolonged exposure no trace of a spectrum below A. 8330 can be photographed .
Fig. 2 shows the absorption bands , where there is a difference of about 3 ' between the wet and dry bulb , the latter standing at about 50 ' .
It will be noticed that the spectrum extends to the limit of about V 9420 , when total absorption steps in and blocks out the rest of the spectrum .
Fig. 3 shows the spectrum where the difference between the wet and the dry bulb is about 6 ' .
Figs. 5 and 6 show the absorption of thicknesses of 1 foot and 3 inches of water respectively , where the source of light gives a continuous spectrum ; ^ inch water merely shows the absorption bands below 9420 .
It will be seen that there is an accurate coincidence between these " water bands " and the absorption bands seen in the solar spectrum , and hence we cannot but assume that there is a connexion one with the other .
In fact , on a dry day it is only necessary to place varying thicknesses of water before the slit of the spectroscope and to photograph the solar spectrum through them , in order to reproduce the phenomena observed on days in which there is more or less moisture present in the atmosphere .
It is quite easy to deduce the moisture present in atmosphere at certain temperatures by a study of the photographs .
There does appear a difference , however , in the intensity of the banded absorptions in hot weather and in cold about up to 50 ' .
In the former they are less marked when the degree of saturation and the length of atmosphere traversed are the same as in the latter .
The accepted view , we believe , of absorption of vapours is that they give linear absorptions in certain thicknesses , and as the thickness increases or the density becomes greater , the lines blacken , new lines appear , and gradually total absorption sets in in the region where the lines are most numerous and close .
It is in the range of possibility that the presence of a small quantity of vapour might show itself as a haze over some region of the spectrum ; if , however , the quantity was gradually increased the haze would give place to the lines , and the phenomena just described would be repeated .
Suppose several localities of absorption to exist , the absorptive power of the vapour increasing the further the locality was situated down in the infra-red , it might happen that whilst one locality showed only a haze of absorption , one further down might show total absorption , some locality between these two should show linear absorption .
In the case of the absorptions in the solar spectrum we find a very different state of things existing .
A comparison of the photographs taken in London on days of different diyness , and with those taken at VOL. xxxv .
G Capt. Abney and Lieut.-Col. Festing .
[ Mar. 15 the Riffel , shows that the linear absorptions are not increased in number or intensity ; except so far that the blackness of the lines is increased by the blackness of the banded absorptions , and the same blackness can be induced by placing a certain thickness of water 1883 .
] Atmospheric Absorption .
before the slit of the spectroscope : another point is that the Fraun-hofer lines in certain regions ( say X9420 to X 9800 ) are so .
irregularly distributed as to preclude the idea that they all belong to the absorption of aqueous vapour , yet all are equally darkened by the band , and they do not spread out as the darkness of the band increases .
This is against the view of the bands being formed by aqueous vapour , ns we know it .
The question then arises as to what these water bands can be \lt ; jue_if not due to vapour .
This we consider an open question , and one which should be discussed .
All we can state is that the absorptions shown are similar to those of water ( liquid ) and they do not seem to point to the watery stuff existing as vapour , * if we take the visible spectrum as a guide .
An intense blue sky at sea-level is often indicative of moisture in the atmosphere , and it also seems to be indicative of finely suspended matter of some kind .
If this be the case , can this suspended matter be suspended water stuff ?
for if it be not , there is no reason why the sky should be bluer on a moist day than on a dry day .
We would remark that the deep blue sky at sea-level is of a different colour to the black-blue of high altitudes where , if they exist , the fine suspended particles would be largely diminished in number , and the coarser particles which cause white haze would also be fewer .
The great difference of the intensities of the light from the blue sky in England and at 10,000 feet was determined by one of us and communicated to the British A-Ssociation at Southampton , and the \#166 ; enormous disparity between the two has some bearing on the question we have been discussing .
Addendum .
In the above paper we have described the absorption due to " water stuff " in the atmosphere to X 9800 , as it is only to that wave-length to which the normal spectrum has been as yet published .
W^e wish , however , to add that there are bands commencing at X 9800 , X 12200 , and X 15200 , f giving step by step absorption from the one wave-length to the next , as in the diagram , which also correspond with cold water bands .
The absorption in the locality from 12200 downwards is usually total , and it is only on dry cold days or at high altitudes that we have noticed that rays of sufficient amplitude can penetrate to .cause photographic impression to be made.\#151 ; March 24 , 1883 .
* Unless it be held that the water itself holds vapour in solution.\#151 ; March 12 .
+ These wave-lengths have been taken from the map of the prismatic spectrum illustrating the Bakerian Lecture , 1880 , and are approximate numbers only .

