Mr. W. B. Haines .
Effect of [ June 7 , the stiffness , etc. , of the support , that is , on outside circumstances , whose changes can neither be avoided nor compensated .
On the whole , I think it seems probable better time-keeping might be secured by a properly designed balance wheel oscillating on a spring than by a pendulum .
The balance wheel and spring has the great advantage of something like real isochronism , so that small variations of arc are unimportant , and I believe there is no good reason to consider the elastic constants of a spring kept at a uniform temperature or otherwise compensated are more liable to variation than the force of gravity .
The Effect of Temperature upon the Ductility of Zinc .
By W. B. Haines , B.Sc. , Physics Eesearch Scholar , University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received June 7 ; revised July 22 , 1911 .
) It is well known that zinc has the property of becoming soft at temperatures in the region of 150 ' C. , while it is said to become hard and brittle at about 200 ' .
This applies to the commercial variety of the metal , which always contains a small proportion of lead .
These changes suggested an investigation into the effect of temperature upon the ductile properties of zinc , of which the present paper is a record .
The experimental plan adopted was the examination of the ductility of zinc wire at various temperatures .
Wires about 15 cm .
long were fixed in a vertical position in a bath of castor oil , and stretched by a weight applied to the upper end by means of a pulley .
A cathetometer was used to measure the extension of the wire .
At each particular temperature the rate of extension of the wire was calculated from the observations for several loads ranging up to the breaking stress .
The results of the work emphasize the importance of treating the wires in exactly the same manner in order to gain consistent results .
Thus the state of the wire as indicated by the rate of extension under a given stress depends not only upon the temperature , but also upon other factors , such as the previous treatment which the wire has received .
In order to gain the required consistency of result , the wires were prepared and used in the .order of their position oh the original hank of wire , so minimising the effect \lt ; of any variation in condition along the hank .
An endeavour was also made 1911 .
] Temperature upon the Ductility of Zinc .
527 in obtaining a set of readings from each wire to maintain uniformity of treatment in all respects .
The method of taking the readings was largely determined by the requirement that the behaviour of the wire should be investigated right up to the breaking point before an undue amount of stretching had introduced uncertain effects .
This condition prevented the repetition of readings , which would otherwise have been desirable , as the flow of the zinc was not uniform .
Expression of Results.\#151 ; The result of each experiment has been diagram-matically expressed by plotting the rate of extension per unit length E against the stress per unit* cross-sectional area S. Both E and S require a correction introduced by the stretch of the wire .
In the calculation of E the mean length of the wire during the reading was used .
The correction applied to S is made necessary by the diminution in diameter corresponding to the increase in length .
It was made on the simple assumptions that the thinning is uniform , and that constant volume is maintained .
Then if s be the extension and l the original length , the ratio of the applied stress to the corrected stress S is 1:1 +s/ l.The suppositions involved here were tested by comparing measurements of the wires made before and after the experiments upon them .
The comparison showed that any irregularities in diameter were about doubled by the stretching , and that the correction as applied to S was reliable to 0*7 per cent. These measurements also showed that differences between the diameters of different wires were small enough to be neglected .
No correction was made for the very small friction of the pulley .
In this manner a curve was obtained for each temperature chosen over a range from 10 ' to 200 ' C. The results have been brought together by taking as a measure of the ductility the slope of the final portion of the curve corresponding to the particular temperature .
In the case of a truly viscous flow , E and S are connected by a linear law , or dR/ dS = Jc , where kis a constant proportional to the coefficient of viscosity .
With such substances as pitch , which while approximately viscous in behaviour can yet be treated in the manner of the present experiments , k has been called the coefficient of viscous traction.f The behaviour of the zinc has thus been assumed to become approximately viscous toward the breaking stress .
This assumption is justified by the results over a considerable range of temperature , and in any case the method gives a convenient and fairly accurate means of comparing the results .
Fig. 1 gives a clear idea * For the sake of convenience the unit taken was the initial cross-sectional area = 0'00581 sq .
cm .
t Trouton , * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 77 , p. 426 .
Mr. W. B. Haines .
Effect of [ June 7 , of what is involved in the assumption .
In the ideal case an abrupt change from the elastic to the viscous state is supposed , instead of the more gradual change which the real curve indicates .
Results.\#151 ; A preliminary experiment was first made upon a single wire under a constant load , the rate of extension being measured at intervals as the temperature rose from 70 ' to 150 ' C. The result showed two notable changes in the zinc over this range .
Between 80 ' and 90 ' the metal becomes remarkably soft , as soft , in fact , as it is at 150 ' .
At a few degrees above 90 ' a very definite hardening sets in , which has a turning point at about 115 ' .
Curves covering the whole range of the experiments are shown in fig. 2 .
These have been selected from a great number of perfectly consistent experiments , as being representative of the series .
The experimental points f)uctilifcC t\lt ; Z7l\amp ; Rez-I/ Z/ Jeal Fig. 1 .
Temperature , 108 ' C. Load .
Extension , per minute .
Length of wire .
Bate of extension .
Stress ( corrected ) .
kgrm .
cm .
cm .
3-0 0-032 16 -2 0-0020 3 -00 3-5 0-074 16 -3 0 -0045 3-52 4-0 0-121 16 -4 0-0074 4-06 4 '4 0-196 16 -6 0 -0118 4-51 4*6 0-246 16 -8 0 -0146 4-76 4-8 0-312 17 -0 0-0184 5-03 5-0 0-368 17 -2 0 -0214 5-31 have been omitted from all the curves save three , in order to avoid confusion .
These three , together with the table , give a sufficient idea of the experimental data upon which the results are based .
The diagram shows curves for intervals of 20 ' between 50 ' and 200 ' C. , except between 90 ' and 120 ' , where the interval is reduced to 10 ' .
Below 50 ' the stresses involved are too large for the curves to be completed on this figure .
An approximate idea of the behaviour at atmospheric temperature can be gained by taking the curve marked 122 ' and doubling the abscissae .
The state of the zinc at any particular temperature is indicated both by the shape of the curve and by the position of the curve upon the diagram .
The three curves 50 ' , 69 ' and 90 ' , show a regular increase in softness as the 1911 .
] Temperature upon the Ductility of Zinc .
temperature rises , the form of the curves at the same time decreasing in curvature .
At maximum softness the curve is practically a straight line , which indicates that a truly viscous behaviour is reached .
At a few degrees above 90 ' a hardening of the zinc sets in , which is so rapid that , at 110 ' , the Fig. 2 .
behaviour is comparable with that at 30 ' .
There is , however , greater brittleness than at this lower temperature .
From 110 ' onward there is a regular softening as the temperature rises .
This certainly continues up to 200 ' , and one or two experiments above this temperature indicated that the softening continues at least up to 250 ' C. Although the zinc attains , at these higher temperatures , the same ductility as it shows at 90 ' , the character of the flow is different in the two cases .
At the lower temperature , increase in softness corresponds to straightening of the curve , but at the higher Mr. W. B. Haines .
Effect of [ June 7 , temperatures the reverse is the case , for a regular increase in curvature is noticed as the temperature rises .
The contrast is clearly shown in fig. 2 by the curves marked 90 ' and 180 ' .
At 90 ' the wire can also be extended a greater amount , without breakage , than is possible at higher temperatures .
It is worthy of note that .the hardening of the zinc which occurs in the region of 100 ' takes some time to develop .
Thus the wire , immediately upon attaining this temperature , is soft , but after a short time it sets into a harder state .
This fact was not at first appreciated , with the result that curves of the form shown in fig. 3 were obtained for experiments between 90 ' and 100 ' .
Since the readings were started directly the wire was fixed in the bath , the time effect is superposed upon that due to changing the loads .
This time lag was separately investigated by keeping the load constant .
At 98 ' the rate of extension fell to one-eighth of its initial value during the first six minutes , at the end of which time the zinc had reached a permanent state .
This effect of initial softening , followed by gradual hardening , is noticeable only between 90 ' and 120 ' .
It is most definite at the beginning of this range , becoming smaller and more rapid towards the end .
The best representation of the results is to be found in fig. 4 , which shows the coefficient of ductility as calculated from each curve in the manner already explained , plotted agamst the temperature .
It is interesting to note that the ductility , after a fairly definite change at 120 ' C. , increases uniformly with rise in temperature .
It was the discovery of this change at 120 ' which first showed , about a century ago , that zinc could be brought into a plastic state , by simply heating it to a very moderate temperature .
This simple fact converted a little used metal into one finding extensive and valuable application in such trades as building .
No previous notice , however , seems to have been taken of any peculiarity in the ductile properties of zinc at temperatures below 120 ' .
Another noticeable feature of this diagram is that the softening which occurs toward 90 ' is as much a departure from the mean curve as is the hardening at 110 ' .
Discussion of Results.\#151 ; The effect of the mode of treatment of the zinc upon its behaviour has already been mentioned .
The effect of heating the wire to temperatures above 120 ' , and then cooling , is to diminish greatly its tenacity and ductility .
This is due to the crystalline structure induced , as is shown by a microscopical examination of the fracture , and the change affects the behaviour at all temperatures when the wire is again heated .
In 1911 .
] Temperature upon the Ductility of Zinc .
531 I this state the zinc does not show any of the peculiarities already explained !
5. .
Its behaviour is very erratic , but shows on the whole a gradual softening as\gt ; the temperature rises .
In order to restore the ductility to the zinc all that-is needed is to subject it to some such mechanical process as hammering. .
Fig. 4 .
This crushes out the coarse crystalline structure , rendering the metal homogeneous and much more ductile .
This was very marked in an experiment upon a small bar of zinc , which was hammered at a temperature of about 150 ' C. , the test of its ductility being applied by flexure .
Considering how large is the number of factors which combine to determine the behaviour of the wire , and hence the form of the curves by which , this has been represented , it will be seen that the curves have by no means-as simple a physical meaning as their appearance would suggest .
This explains why an endeavour to find a simple mathematical expression for them was not successful .
More involved expressions could have been fitted , , but their significance would be doubtful .
In all the experiments so far recorded ordinary commercial zinc was used , since this is the only kind obtainable in the form of wire .
A careful analysis of the specimen used revealed the presence of 0*52 per cent , lead .
It was thought to be desirable to know whether the peculiarity in the behaviour of this wire was due to the presence of lead , or to a true characteristic of zinc itself .
The experiments could not be repeated with 532 Effect of Temperature upon the Ductility of Zinc .
pure zinc , as it is impossible to produce wires of the pure metal .
However , a comparison of the behaviour of the two forms of the metal was obtained by applying the method of flexure .
A rectangular bar was sawn from a cast stick of pure zinc , and supported at either end in a small iron frame immersed in the oil bath .
The precaution was taken of previously hammering this bar .
Its rate of flexure under a force applied to its middle was then observed at different temperatures .
In the case of commercial zinc a set of wires fixed side by side was substituted for the bar .
These showed the same changes in the region of 100 ' C. as were observed in the experiments on stretching the wires , but , although these changes are so very marked , they could not be observed in the pure zinc .
The bar showed a uniform softening as the temperature rose , the only peculiarity being a hardening in the region of 200 ' .
Hence the evidence leads to the conclusion that the singularity observed in the ductility of zinc at temperatures in the region of 100 ' C. is produced by the admixture of a small proportion of lead .
In conclusion it is a pleasure to acknowledge my debt to Prof. F. T. Trouton and to Assistant-Professor A. W. Porter for constant encouragement and advice during the progress of these experiments .

