]\gt ; iation of with of Water in Ships .
205 Victoria ( Queen ) Alcune Pagine dal della Vita di S.M. la Regina Vittoria nell'Alta Scozia ( 1862-82 ) .
Traduzlone di V. Brandi . .
Firenze 1884 .
The Translator .
Weyrauch ( Jacob J. ) Theory Elastischer Korper . .
Leipzig 1884 .
The Author .
Anonymous .
Die Meteoriten-Kreisreihen als Erzeuger der Kometen , Sonnenflecke u.s.w. Copy in Bronze of the Sylvester Medal published by the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore .
The Variation of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships By F. ELGAR , Professor of Naval Architecture in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Sir WILLIAM THOXSON , F.R.S. Received March 6 , 1884 .
Read March Of all the properties possessed by a ship none is more vital to her safety and efficiency than that of stability .
At the same time none is dependent for its existence and amount upon so many , or such diverse and variable , circumstances as it .
The stability of a ship is regulated and determined by her outward size and shape , and also by the separate amounts and positions of all the weights that to make up her Cture , equipment , and loading .
No change of any kind can be made in dimensions or form , or in the quantities or distribution of the various items of equipment , stores , or cargo without aifecting stabiIity .
It is , of course , essential to the safety of every vessel that her stability should not become reduced during all the changing conditions of her employment and career below a certain definite amount .
The result of neglect in this respect may be a dangerous inclination or complete capsize when unlooked for , or exceptionally trying , encies occur .
Deficient stability , whether caused by faulty design or stowage , may ad1nit of a vessel being suddenly capsized by the action of the and waves , or of her being forcibly heeled to a dangerous angle of inclination by the shifting of some of her internal weights , such as coals or cargo .
Although every vessel there is a minimum limit below which it is not prudent or safe to diminish the stability , it does not follow that this limit is the same or similar in character in all sizes and types of ships .
It is not only necessary to guard against the stability of a ship becoming reduced below a safe minimum amount , but there is also a maximum limit which it should uot be allowed to exceed .
Excessive Prof. F. Elgar .
rl'he Variation of stability has its own peculiar objections and dangers .
It causes and uneasy rolling which may not only be uncomfortable and to passengers and crew , but at times sufficient to and fracture portions of the ucture , and displace or damage some the fittings .
The masts and rigging generally suffer most on of their distance from the axis of rotation , and the change of in them at the end of each roll , being greater than that of any palt of the vessel ; and also because their ttachment to the hull less direct and secure .
The straining effect of too great often shows itself early , and in a marked manner , upon the masts rigging of a vessel .
Seamen frequently say of a ship that is laden heavy cargo placed low down in the hold , that unless some of weights are raised , i.e. , unless the stabiIity is reduced , she will her masts out .
The violent and deep rolling caused by stability also tends to move over towards one side of the ship cargoes as or coals which are free , to some extent , to shift as whole ; or such portions of other classes of as admit of displaced .
Speaking generally , it may be said that , whereas stability helps to prevent inclination to a great angle in the of cargo shifting , the very possession of such large stability increases the chances of shiftiug .
The stability of a ship at a given draught of water , and with specific description of loading can readily be calculated , and it become usual to make such calculations at the Admiralty and in few of our leading mercantile shipyards .
The practice is to a curve of metacentres , which shows how the height of the centre varies with draught of water , and is affected by such in the external bulk and form of the immersed portion of the as may be caused by increasing or diminishing ths draught of A curve of stability is also constructed for one or more fixed of water , and for certain intended , or estimated , weights and butions of load .
These curves show what the righting moments such draughts of water and descriptions of amount to successive of inclination from the upright up to , or to angle at which the stability vanishes .
The curve of metacentres is obtained by culating the height the metacentre at sevel'al fixed draughts of water , setting up heights as ordinates of a curve lvhose abscissae are proportional the corresponding draughts of water , and drawing a fair through the points thus obtained .
The term " " metacentre\ldquo ; originated by guer , who published tho first investigations into subject in his " " Traite du Navire which appeared in ) .
metacentre of a floating body is point of intersection of a line the centre of gravity of the volume of when the body is inclined through an iudetinitely small Stability with of in of equilibrium , with the vertical through the centre of gravity the displaced volume in ths original positiou of equilibrium .
* For instance , if AEF in fig. 1 represent the transverse section of a ship upon which WL is bhe intersection of the water-line plane when the vessel is and in a position of equilibrium , and the position of the centre of gravity of the volume of displacement WAL\mdash ; or centre of buoyancy as it is commonly called ; and if AH be the vertical through when vessel is floating in at the water-line WL , then if the vessel be inclined through a small angle , and the point represent the centre of buoyancy of the immersed volume , the vertical through will intersed the original vertical AH in a point M. is metacentre when the angle of inclination WO is indefinitely small .
It then represents the ultimate intersection of the new vertical through with the vertical BH .
In a ship the vertical corresponding to the upright position of equilibrium is , for all practical purposes , the intersection AH of the middle line longitudinal plane with the transverse section .
Bouguer showed that the position of the metacentre limits the height to which the centrs of gravity of a floating body may be aised without making it unstable , and that the righting moments at small angles of inclination from a position of stable equilibrium are proportional to the height of the metacentre above the centre of gravity .
This is readily seen , because if in fig. 1 be the position of the centre of gravity of a ship , and GZ the horizontal distance bebween * It is a moot question whether the term metacentre should not be made to all the ultimale interscctions of consecutive verticals through the centres of of the displaced volume .
Bouguer cause the of such intersections Prof. F. Elgar .
The of and the vertical through the centre of buoyancy , then is the righting moment ; being the weight of the ship .
; and therefore when is indefinitely small , the righting moment is proportional to .
While remains below the moment is always a righting one , and tends to restore the ship to the upright position , which in this case is one of stable equilibrium ; but if it be above the tendency is to move the ship farther away from the upright till an inclined position of stable equilibrium be reached , or to capsize her .
The curve of metacentres for a ship , which gives the height of the metacentre at all draughts of water , indicates therefore the limit above which centre of gravity cannot be raised by changes in the amounts or positions of any of the weights without causing her to becomo unstable .
Sufficient stability for practical working requirements and for purposes of safety can only be secured by taking care that at the various displacements and draughts of water a vessel may have in diflerent conditions of loading , the centre of gravity is always kept at a proper depth below the corresponding points on the metacentrio curve .
Such instability as may be due to deficiency , or absence , of meta centric height is not necessarily dangerous , and may not be sufficient to cause a complete capsize .
It will , of course , cause the vessel to incline away from the upright , but a position of stable equilibrium may soon be reached ; and the righting moments at greater inclinations , and the range of bility , beyond that point may be so large as to put all danger of upsetting out of the question if there are no openings through which water may find its way inboard , and no large weights free to shift .
Many ships are in this condition when light , and some approach it when laden .
On the other hand , there are vesseJs in which small metacentric height involves a serious risk of sizing .
No { ixed distance of centre of gravity below metacentre , or metacentric heigh , , as it is commonly termed , can be adopted as a standard for application to all ships , because snch a measure of stability is very imperfect insufficient , and may by itself be misleading .
This is chiefly due to the reasons that the form and proportions of the above-water part of the ship are not taken into consideration in the calculations , and the under-water form not completely so ; and that the value , as a general measure of stability , of a given metacentric hoight is largely affect.ed by the absolute heights in a ship of the centre of gravity and metaoentre .
initial stability is , of course , constant for a given ntric height whatever may be the absoIute positions of the points and , but the righting moments at moderate and large ] of inclination , and the at which such righting moments vanish , or change into upsetting Stabilily with Draught of Water in Ships .
are largely dependent upon the absolute position of the Speaking generally , it may bs said that , keeping distance between the metaceutre centre of gravity , righting moments at successive angles of inclination , and the of stability , are increased by lowering these points and reduced them .
Experience proves that some classes of vessels are as safe and in respect of stability with 1 foot , or , of height , as others are with 3 or 4 feet ; while some of an character require much greater stability than even the figures would give .
Examples of this class are to be found ironclad monitors of very lo freeboard and with heavy works , including armoured turrets and guns on deck ; and among paddle steamers of extremely light draught , with tiers of houses above thsm .
These are cases in which the metacentre and centre of gravity are both Gomparatively in the ship .
The vertical position of the meta , centre of a floating body is determined by the consideration that the height of the metacentre abo ve the centre of gravity of the volume of displacement is equal to the moment of inertia of the plane of flotation about a axis through its centre of gravity divided by the volums of If ABCD ( fig. 2 ) represent the section of a rectangnlar prismatic body which floats in equilibrium with the side BC horizontal , WL the line of flotation , the position of the centre of gravity of the displaced volume or centrs of buoyancy , and that of the metacentre , bhen by Bouguer 's well known formula Let , and , the depth of flotation : The moment of inertia of an unit of length of the water-line plane VOL. XXXVIL Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of , and the volume of displacement of an unit of length of prism .
Therefore .
But , and MS is equal to .
If a curve LMN ( fig. 3 ) be constructed abscissae represent the various depths of flotation of the body , and ordinates the corresponding heights of the point , this will be curve of metacentres .
OS is equaI to the depth of flotation WA in fig. 2 ; BS is equal to the corresponding height of the centre of buoJ ancy above ; and MS is equal to the height of the metaoentre above S. It is obvious that the locus of the centre of buoyancy OB is a straight line whose equation is .
The equation to the curve of metacentres is , or This curve is therefore an hyperbola whose asymptotes are the axis OY , \mdash ; which corresponds with the lower side AD of the section of the floating body in fig. 2 , \mdash ; and the straight line OB , which is the locus of the centres of buoyancy .
The curves of metacentres for various geometrical forms of floating bodies possess many eresting properties , but it is foreign to the purpose of this paper to enter upon a full discussion of them .
It may , however , be noted , as additional illustrations of these , that the ordinate of the metacentric curve at zero , , the one corresponding with no draught of water , is the radius of curvature of the transverse section of ths floating body at its lowest point .
Thus , for a body of circular section the height of the metacentre at the point where the draught vanishes is equal , to the radius of the circle ; for one lowesb point of whose section is angular , it is zero ; and for one the bottom of whose section is straight and is paralleI to the water-line , it is infinite .
When the body is completely immersed the metacentre is identical Stability Draught of Water in Ships .
the centre of buoyancy , if the upper surface is bounded by a plane hich is arallel to , and coincident with , the water-surface , the ourve of metacentres does not , when produced , end in tlJe centre of buoyancy , as may be seen by fig. 3 .
The immersion of plane of the upper surface BC causes a point of discontinuity in the curve of metacentres , which drops at ollce to the curve of centres of buoyancy .
of metacentres are given in fig. 7 for prismatic bodies of triangular and elliptical sections , and for a similar body the lower half of whose section is elliptical and the upper half rectangular figs. 4 , 5 , and 6 ) .
The section in fig. 4 is an isosceles triangle with the base upwards and horizontal .
In figs. 5 and 6 the major axis of the ellipse is horizontal .
A comparison of the metacentric curves in fig. 7 will show how they are affected by changes in the form of the floating body .
Tn the case of the triangular section the curve of metace1ltres is a straight which passes through the immersed angle of the triangle .
H OS represent any draught in fig. 7 , then are the positions of the metacentres at that draught for the three bodies under consideraion ; OS ' being the draught at which they become completely immersed .
If the rectangular floating body shown in fig. 2 ) homogeneous , and the changes in its depth of flotation be caused by merely altering the density throughout , or by otherwise altering its weight so that the position of the centre of gravity remain the same , the latter will always be in the centre of the body .
The locus of the of Prof. F. ] .
The Variation of gravity will therefore appear in fig. 3 as a straight line parallel the axis OX .
Let GG ' be this line .
The equilibrium of the body will best able in the upright position for those depths of at which the ordinates to the of metacentres LMN are than OG , and unstable when they are less .
At the points where curve LMN intersects GG ' the equilibrium will be neutral .
In actual ships the locus of the centre of gravity is not a straight line such as GG ' , ally more than the curve of metacentres is a hyperbola like LMN ; and the fundamental difference exists between them in practice , that whereas the curve of metacentres is constant for a ship , the locus of the centre of gravity is very variabie in its character .
The in fig. 3 may serve , nevertheless , to illustrate the nature of the problem that has to be dealt with in investigating the stability of .
The curve of metacentres for a ship can be readily constructed by applying Bouguer 's theorem , , height of metacentre above centre of gravity of displaced volume , where is the half-ordinate of the plane of flotation and V the volume of displacement .
The integration of is effected by one of Simpson 's ruIes ; and the volume of displacement and corresponding height of centre of gravity of displaced ] are computed by the same means .
The curve of metacentres when once constructed is the same for all conditions of the ship , as it can only be altered by changes in her dimensions or form .
In this important respect it differs entirely from the locus of the centre of gravity .
The locus of the centre of gravity of a ship is usually very irregular , and is neither fixed in character nor position .
It varies with different weights and descriptions of ; and , unlike the curve metacentres , its ordinates cannot always be expressed in terms of Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of stability will depend , not only on the conditions which enter M. Bouguer 's solution , but also on the shape given to the sides of vessel above and beneath the water-line or section , of which Bouguer 's theorem takes no account It may be added 's theorem also neglects to take into account the volume the above-water part of a ship , and to some extent the form of below-water part ; as well as the absolute height of the centre gravity , which has been already referred to .
Atwood lays down a general theorem for determining the righting moments , at any required angles of inclination , possessed by a ship having a given of water and a fixed height of centre of gravity .
It is the following : fig. 8 represent the transverse section of a ship which is inclined to an angle from the upright water-line .
Let be the position of the csntre of gravity ; the centre of gravity of the volume of the displaced fluid\mdash ; or centre of buoyancy\mdash ; when upright ; and the position to which it has been moved by the inclination of the vessel through the angle The original form of the under-water volume WAL has now been changed by the addition of the wedge-shaped piece and the deduction of the wedge-shaped piece .
The volumes of these wedges musbe equal , because the displacement has not been changed by the mere act of inchnation .
Let be the centre of gravity of ths wedge that of , and the volume of each wedgs .
Then the horizontal shift , BR , of the centre of buoyancy volume of displacement , or .
But , and therefore This is the formula by which the stability of a ship at various angles of inclination is ordinarily computed ; GZ being the arm of the couple at the ends of which the weight of the ship and the Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
upward pressure of the water act , either to restore the vessel to the upright position or to produce rther inclination .
The factors V , and are readily calculated from the external dimensions and form of the ship by means of Simpson 's rtlles ; the position of the point , the centre of buoyancy in the upright position , is similarly obtained ; and is either determined by experiment , or by calculating in detail the weights and statical moments of the component parts of the structure and loading .
Mr. .
K. Barnes , one of the present Chief Constructors of the Navy , read a paper before the Institution of Architects , in 1860 , in which he showed how the requisite calculations could be made concisely and with facility .
Notwithsbanding Atwood 's demonstration of the impsrfect and unreliable standard of stability furnished by mere metacentric height , and his theorem for enabling the moments at large angles of inclination to be determined , the step which it may now appear would naturally follow was not actually taken till 1867 .
In that year a question arose at the Admiralty respecting the stability of some low freeboard monitors at very large angles of inclination ; and Sir E. J. Reed , then Chief Constructor of the Navy , directed the matter to be investigated .
It was placed in the hands of Mr. William John , who made the calculations , and embodied them in the graphic form now known as the curve of stability .
Thus in fig. 9 , if OX be an abscissa line , upon which the various equal divisions represent angles of inclination of a ship , and any ordinate , such as , be the length of GZ ( see fig. 8 ) at the angle of inclination , OPX will be the curve of stability for the particula , draught of water and positioxl of centre of gravity under consideration .
The results of Mr. John 's calculations were described in a paper by Sir E. J. Reed before the Institution of Naval Architects in 1868 ; and a further paper containing an improved method of applying Atwood 's theorem to the calculation of stability upon this extended scale , was read before the same Institution by Messrs. John and White , in 1871 .
216 Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of The curve of stability , as thus constructed , has been in use at the Admiralty , and in a few of our leading mercantile shipyards for some years .
The loss of H.M.S. " " \ldquo ; by capsizing sea , furnished the impetus which led to the practice of stability information in this complete and instructive form , established at the Admiralty .
Many losses have occurred of years in the mercalltile marine from a similar cause , and directed the attention of mercantile naval architects to the point .
Curves of stability have been constructed for large numbers vesseIs of various classes , many of have been published ; and the general character of a shjp 's stability can now be judged of with much greater curacy than was possible a few years ago .
It appears that prior to 1867 no ] eulations had been made which showed how the stability of a ship became aflected by ] ining her till the water-line came up over the deck ; or at what angle the stability vanished .
Messrs. John and White say in the paper before referred to : ' ' The acentric stability , as it was termed , was by general consent taken as a sufficiently good standard of comparison , and no approximation was made , nor any great importance attached to the angle of inclination when a ship ceased to be stable .
It was very generally known that up to very considerable angles of ] , the stability of high-sided ships continued to grow , even more rapidly than it appeared to do from the metacentric method , and the vague impression that the ] would be very large at which the ship became unstable , was considered sufficient to render investigation needless The investigations conducted at the Admiralty into the stability of war-ships of low freeboard , and those made by naval archiGects outside of the Admiralty into the condition of deeply laden merchant steamers of low freeboard and with high centres gravity of cargo , prove that the mere application of the metacentric method may often lead to a false sense of security being established respecting the stability of certain types of vessels .
H.M.S. " " Captain\ldquo ; had a metacentric height of about feet when , which\mdash ; in the absence of definite information , at that time most unusual and not considered absolutely necessary , the righting moments at large ations , and the angle at which the stability vanished\mdash ; was not supposed to be insufficient .
Some of our low freeboard monitors and deeply laden merchant vessels with flush decks and low freeboards , have metacentric heights which , by themselves , furnish no clue to the rapidity with which the stability diminishes after a moderate angle of inclination has been passed ; or the smailness of the angle at lvhich it vanishes .
The introduction of curves of stabiJity , and the extent to which they have been in practice , have led to a due and precise appreciation being formed , by many , of the dangers attendamt upon low freeboard .
The tability with Draught of Water in ] previously existing upon the point , which were usually upon mere surmise or vague impresslon , and often influonced prejudice , can now be corrected by means of exact and conclusive The effect of low freeboard upon stability bas latterly been made known and discussed .
It has been seen that the mere of setting off the righting obtained by Atwood 's formula , at various angles of inas ordinates of a cnrve , and thus obtaining a complete representation of the variation of righting moment with of inclination , threw a flood of light upon the general problem a ship 's stability , and enabled it to be far more comprehensively and treated than before .
It also enabled definite and instrucgeneralisations to be made which were previously impossible .
will be observed , however , that the curves of stability referred to deal with the matter so far as certain fixed draughts of water of centre of gravity are concerned .
A curve of stability for a given draught of water and position of centre of gravity ceases to be applicable if changes are made in the weight and consequent of water of a ship , or the position of the centre of gravity , or In the case of war-ships , curves of stability usually constructed three conditions .
1st , for the draught of water and position of centre of gravity of the vessel when fully laden ; 2nd , the same , but all coal consumed ; and , 3rd , when quite , and without any coal , ammunition , or consumable stores .
In certain cases there may be special conditions for which additional curves are required , but usually the abov are all that considered necessary .
The stability at intermediate points is not often supposed , or found in practice , to vary sufficiently to call for further attention .
In mercantile steamers , however , which are often launched in a very light condition and are constructed for carrying heavy cargoes , and large supplies of coal , the question of stability requires a more exhaustive , and somewhat different , mode of treatment .
It becomes necessary , in fact , to make another step in the same direction as , taken whem the moments for various angles of inclination , described by Atwood , were represented as a whole for a fixed draught of water and loading by means of a curve of stability .
is still further required to complete the representation of a ship 's stability is to show how the CUl.ves of stability themselves vary with draught of water and position of centre of gravity , and to record this variation in a form that will render it easy to construct curves of stability for any specific draughts of water and positions of centre of gravity .
The curves of stability of merchant steamers are required for so many different draughts of water and positions of centre of gravity , that I have found it convenient in practice , after obtaining curves Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of for the extreme light and loaded conditions , and one or two mediate ones , to construct cross-curves , from which the a curve of stability at any draught between the two extreme ones be readily measured off .
In order to do this , the curve of already described has to be analysed , and dealt with under a form .
The ordinary curve of stability , as illustrated in fig. 9 , is a showing the ation in the length of GZ in fig. 8\mdash ; or the arm the inclining couple\mdash ; with ths angle of inclination .
in fig. 9 the length of GZ in fig. 8 , at the angle of .
Therefore in fig. 9 is difference of these two quantities at the angle of inclination curve of stability , or curve of , is a curve whose ordinates equal to the differences between the corresponding ordinates of curves , one of which represents the variation in the length of with change of inclination , and the other is a curve of sines radius .
Thus if Opb , fig. 10 , be a curve , of which the ordinates , such as , are equal to the length of BR at the angle of inclination ; and a curve of sines from to with radius then the differences between the ordinates of these curves will give the corresponding values of , or the ordinates of the curve of stability .
Thus is the length of GZ at the angle of inclination , and is equal to the ordinate of the curve given in fig. 9 .
It will be obvious that after calculating three or four curves of BR for a vessel , including those for the two extremes of draught , no further calculation is necessary for obtaining a similar curve at any ermediate draught , since it is only requisite to construct crosscurves at given angles of inclinabion\mdash ; say at intervals of and from these cross-curves to measure off the ordinates of tho curve BR for the draught required .
Having thus obtained the curve of BR for the draught in question , the ordinary curve of stability , Stability with Draught of Woter in Ships .
or lengths of , can be obtained by setting off a curve of sines as in fig. 10 to radius , and deducting the ordinates of this curve from the corresponding ones of the curve of .
This mode of concnrves of stability has been rendered necessary by the great variations in draught of water and position of centre of gravity that have to be dealt with in many mercantile steamers .
The demand { hat has thus arisen for constructing cross-curves of stability , , curves showing the variation of righting moment with draught of water at constant angles of inclination , has recently led to greatly improved and more rapid methods of calculation .
devised .
Amsler 's mechanical integrator has been lnvaluable]n about this desirable result , and it is now possible to make a complete set of cross-curves of stability for a ship in a few days .
* In considerin the stability of a ship from the point of view of variation of righting moment with draught of water , the angle of inclination being constant , instead of from that of variation of righting moment with angle of inclination , the draught being constant , as was formerly done ; or , rather , in considering the subject from both points of view instead of almost exclusively from the latter , several interesting and important results are obtained , which do not appear to have received the attention they deserve .
It has already been stated that one of the first lessons taught by the introduction of curves of stability was the decrease in the righting moments at large angles of inclination , and the rapidity with which stability foequently vanishes altogether , in vessels of low freeboard .
These are matters of great practical importance , and have attracted a great deal of attention , on account of the numerous vessels of various types which are more or less aifected by them .
The connexion between low freeboard and range of stability , and the manner in which the latter is affected by metacentric height and the position of the centre of gravity , has latterly been well discussed and explained ; * The method thus described of calculating a series of ordina , of afterwards constructing cross-curves them is tedious and complicated .
It is simpler and very much more to calculate the cross-culves directly by the integrator to the under-water part of the ship , instead of to the wedges of immersion and emersion ; and thus determining at once the positions of the vertical lines through the centres of buoyancy at the required angles of inclination .
By this means the sity is avoided of calculsting separately the volumes of the wedges of immersion and emersion , and of correcting the positions first assumed for the inclined water-lines order to make these wedges approximately equal .
Mr. William Denmy , of Dumbarton , was the fil.st to call my attention to very important and useful ; and it was described by him in a paper before the Institution of Naval Architects in April last .
Other investigators have also been working in the same , and several papers dealing with the extension and simplification of stability calculations will be ound in the " " Transactions of Institution of Naval Architects\ldquo ; for 1884 , including one of great interest and value by M. Daymard .
July , 1884 .
Prof F. Elgar .
Th Variatio of and the dangers which may be incurred by low-sided ships aro understood by many .
In former times , it was not so necessary as has recently become , carry theoretical investigations to the of ascertaining the angle at which a ship would capsize .
It is during the last twenty years that small height of side out of has been thought a desirable quality for sea-going war-ships to or that certain sses of merchant vessels have been evolved in range of stability has been unduly limited by lowness of When Atwood wrote his papers , and for very many yoars after , ships were built with such lofty sides , and merchant vessels were comparatively uniform in type , and so deep in proportion to their dimensions , that no demand arose for complete curves of stability .
Besides , all the vessels of Atwood 's day , and for long after , sailing ships ; and such few investigations as were made their stability , were for the purpose of determining their sail-carrying power .
The constructors of the old types of vesseIs judged of and regulated stability by reference to the practical test of sail-carrying power at sea , and this was usually sufficient for the purposs .
Modern variations of type , which began after the introduction of steam , have for some time , however , rendered scientific calculations necessary , which before were considered merely interesting or curious .
The many departures from the comparative uniformity of proportions and form that once prevailed , and particularly the extent to which some of these departures have gone in the direction of reducing freeboard , have created the necessity referred to .
Curves of stability , having been first produced for the purpose of ascertaining the effect of low freeboard , and having disclosed the dangers which lowness of freeboard may cause , have been largely used for that purpose .
If we consider the cross-curves of stability\mdash ; or curves of righting moments for various draughts of water , the angle of inclination constant\mdash ; it will be seen that while the upper and middle portions of those curves have been often dealt with , the lower portions have been almost , if not quite , neglected .
The stability of a floating body at light draughts is , however , similar in character to that at deep draughts , and the same peculiar features and dangers that have been found to exist with eeboard aro frequently connected also with lightness of draught .
It fell to my lot to make some .investigations respecting the stability possessed by the " " \ldquo ; at the time of the disaster which befell her , and to give evidence respecting the same .
I afterwards , by way of explanation of a portion of the evidence , wrote a letter to the " " Times which appeared on the 1st September last , calling attention to the relation which exists between the righting moments at deep and light draughts in certain elementary forms of floating .
The proposition I then enunciated , which illustrates Stability with Draught of Waterin Ships .
221 point under consideration , .is following : If any homobody , which is symmetrical about the three principal axes centre of gravity , be of such density as to float with its lowest point at a depth below the water ; then , if the density be aItered as to make it float with its highest point at .
a height aove iht above th , the righting moments will be the same both cases at equal angles of , and consequently range of stability and complete curve of righting moments will be the same .
This position can ma more be made still more eneral , as was shown by Mr. William John , in a letter to " " Times\ldquo ; of the 5th September ; as it applies to all homogeneous floating bodies of irregular form revolving about a horizontal axis fixed only in direction .
In this general form , the condition of turning body through an angle of , or upside down , must , however , be included , because the immersed volume in the one case must be of the same form as the emersed volume in the other , and this can only be obtained with irregularlyshaped figures by turning thsm through an angle of .
For this rsason I chose symmetrical figures for the lrpose of glvlng a popular illustration of the analogous effects of low freeboard and light draught upon the stability of ships , and avoided introducing the condition of turning in order to get similar volumes above and below water in each case .
The general proof of the proposition laid down is that the live joining the centre of gravity of the immersed volume with that of the volume above water must pass through the centre of gravity of the whole body , and the distances of the centres of gravity of the two sections from that of the whole body are inversely proportionaI to their volumes ; so that the moment of stability , which is proportional to the immersed volume multiplied by the distance of its centre of gravity from that of the whole body , will be the same in boffi cases .
As the righting moments at equal angles of inclination at the deep and light draughts described are the same in a homogeneous floating body of symmetrical form , it follows that at the same the lengths of , or the arms of the righting lever at equal of inclination , and also the metacentric heighbs , are in the inverse ratio of the displaced volumes .
The moment of stability is by Atwood 's formula , see equal to BG .
Now , which is the moment of the wedges of immersion and emersion , is the same whether WAL be the below-water or above-water volume ; the immelsed wedge in the one case being the emersed in the other , and vice is therefore the same , in floating bodies of any form that revolve about a horizontal axis fixed in direction , whether WAL be above-water or below-water volume .
For such bodies as are is also equal in the two cases , because Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of BG is inversely proportional to , or the immersed volume ; whence we again derive the result that the moments of stability equal angles of inclination are the same .
In the case of a body is not homogeneous , and in which the centre of gravity is distance from , the centre of gravity of a similar body , the moments of stability at equal gles of inclination WAL represents above-water and below-water volumes differ from each other by an amount equal to where and are the two volumes into which the body ' divided by the watel-line plane .
When the change of volume is produced by merely increasing the depth of immersion , in a ship\mdash ; and not by rotating the body so as to make WAL repre .
sent above-water and below-water volumes alternately\mdash ; the difference between the moments of stability is .
In the first case it is whole volume of the body : and in the second it is difference between the volumes into which the body is divided by the water-line plane Some of the resuIts which follow from the above considerations have been previously noticed .
Atwood , in his paper read before the Royal Society in 1796 , discusses at great length the positions of equilibrium of homogeneous rectangular bodies , and prisms of square sections , with varying specific gravities .
He shows that whether the specific gravity of a square parallelopiped be or , it will float in equilibrium with its faces at the same angles to the watersurface , and will pass through the same number of positions of equilibrium in turning through .
These cases are included in the general tion that the righting moments at equal angles of inclination are the same for both densities of the body , because the righting moments will vanish , i.e. , positions of equihbrium will occur , at equal angles of inclination .
Atwood shows , in a paper read before the Royal Society in 1798 , that the stability of a vessel whose sides are inclined at a given angle below the water-surface , is to that of a vessel whose sides are inclined to similar angles above the water-surface ; the breadth of the water-line and othe conditions being the same in both cases .
He goes on to say that this proposition is not confined to the case which he demonstrates , but is equally true whatever figure be given to the sides of the ship , and } they are plain or curved , provided that the sides under the water in one vessel are similar and equal , and similarly disposed in respect of the water-line , to the sides of the other vessel bove the water-line .
The unnecessary condition , so far as homo- eneous bodies are concerned , introduced by Atwood , that the displacements shall be equal , prevented him from pushing his conclusions to the extent to which they have been ried in this paper .
It should hcre be remarked that in dealing wibh cross-curves of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
223 and thus considering the variation of stability with draught water , the curves of righting moments require to be constrncted , not merely curves of , or lengths of righting arm .
The ordinary curve of stability usually has for its ordinates the lengths of GZ at the various angles of inclination .
This is right enough for the ( .
, ondition under which such curves are constructed ; because the displacement is then constant , and the curves represent either lengths of righting arm or righting moments , according to the scale upon which the ordinates are measured .
In the cross-curves of stability , however , draught is one of the variable elements , and the displacement changes with it .
A cross-curve whose ordinates represent the lengths of righting arm various draughts of water therefore quite diflerent in character from a cross-curve of righting moments , whose ordinates are lengths of righbing displacement .
It is necessary , iu order to judge accnrately of the variation of stability with draught of water , to use curves of righting moments , and not merely curves of , such as are usually considered sufficient when the draught of water is fixed .
cross-curves of stability , at inclination of , for two homogeneous floating bodies of prismatic form , and of the same breadth and depth ; one being rectangular and the other ellipProf .
F. Elgar .
The Variation of tical in cross section .
The shorter axis is when the are upright , and is two-thirds of the longer axis , or extreme The measurements in the direction of OY give the depths of sion , and those in the direction of OX represent moments .
The APO gives the values , the rectangular body when inclined to angle of from the upright , of the horizontal shift of the of buoyancy multiplied by the immersed volume , or , see fig. Thus if be any aught of water , the ordinate gives the of at that draught .
The curve AQO is the curve of moments for a prismatic body of elliptical section , and of length to the above , when inclined also to an angle of of the ellipse are of the same length as the sides of the section taken in the former case ; the minor axis being two-thirds the major , and the minor axis being vertical when the body is and are the corresponding curves of at the draughts of water , and obtained by deducting BG from the ordinates of the curves APO and AQO .
The being homogeneous , is taken at the middle of the depth .
ThesQ curves therefore represent the actuaI righting moments of the two bodies under consideration , for an inclination of , at draughts of water .
The ordinates measul.ed to the of AO giving righting moments , and those to the left , if there were any , would be upsetting moments .
It will be seen that the whole of the curves in fig. 11 symmetrical with respect to a line drawn parallel to OX at one half the depth of total immersion .
The elliptical prism tends to return to the upright , when at the inclination of , at all draughts of water ; and exerts the maximum effort to do so wheu immersed to the middle of its depth .
The rectangular prism , when inclined to the same angle , also tends to return to the uprighb at all depths of immersion ; the maximum lighting moment is not , however , obtained when floating at the middle of its depth , but at draughts which are at equal distances nbove and below it .
Fig. 12 represents similar for a prismatic body , the upper half of whose section is rectangular , and the lower half elliptical as shown in fig. 6 ; the extreme dimsnsions of the section being the same as in the previous cases .
This form of section is an example of the kind of departnre from symmetry of form which exists in ships .
It has been seen that if homogeneous bodies of symmetrical form be altered in density so as to float alternately at water-lines which at equal distances above and below the centres of such bodies , the righting moments at equal angles of inclination will be the same at each draught .
In the body for which the curves in fig. 12 have been structed , the departure from similarity of the immersed , and out of water volumes causes a difference between the righting moments at the draughts described .
and represent the curves of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
V at angles of inclination of and respectively ; and are the corresponding curves of , or curves of righting when is taken in the position it would occupy if the body homogeneous .
The lines and indicate draughts at which equal volumes are cut off above and below water , and shows the depth at which the immersed portion is one-half of the total volume of the body .
It will be seen that the righting moments are greater at and of inclination when the body is deeply immersed than when it is floating at light draughts with equal volumes below water to those which are above in the other case .
The relation between the righting moments at the two extremes of draught is , however , largely determined in a ship by the position of the centre of gravity , which in this case has been taken as for a homogeneous body .
This will be seen by the next example .
Fig. 13 gives curves of for an actual ship , at , and of inclination respectively .
The vessel for which these have been constructed is 400 feet in length , 44 feet in breadth , and feet 6 inches in moulded depth .
The extreme depth from the top of keel to the highest point of the sheer of the upper deck is 40 feet .
The point is the top of the keel , A is the highest point.of the sheer of the deck , and the lowest point of the upper deck at side , from VOL. XXXVII .
Prof. F. Elgar .
The Variation of which freeboard is measured .
The horizontal ordinates of curves rspresent the moments , at the draughts to which correspond ; the scale of moments in foot-tons being shown upon base line .
The displacement of the vessel when wholly is 11,800 tons , and when displacing half this amount\mdash ; or 5,900 tons\mdash ; she draws 20 feet 6 inches of water ; and this depth of flotation , with the corresponding values of , are by the ordinate drawn at the point represents the draught of water at which the vessel was launched , and the draught at which there is an equal volume out of water to that below water at the draught .
The draaght of water at the point is , and the freeboard above the point is 7 feet .
If the centre of gravity be taken at 19 feet above the top of keel for all draughts of water\mdash ; it always varies , and in some cases considerably , with the draught , as has been stated , but 19 feet is found to be a fair mean height for the ship in question\mdash ; and the moment be deducted from the ordinates of the curves in fig. 13 , we obtain new ordinates , which represent the curves of righting moments , ; and these are shown in fig. 14 .
It will be seen that the ighting moments which correspond with ordinates of the usual curves of stability are much larger at deep draughts than at light draughts .
For instance , the ordinates of the usual Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
of stability for the launching draught of 11 feet at give very smaller moments than the curve for the deep draught at hers is an equal volume above water to what there is below other case , and the freeboard is only 7 feet .
The centre of gravity taken fig. 14 is feet below where it would be if the external surface of the ship enclosed a homogeneous volume .
Its position with reference to that of the centre of gravity of a homogeneous body of the same form largely determines the stability at all except small angles of inclination , and also th relation between the stability at light and deep draughts .
Figs. and 16 show what fig. 14 becomes changed into , if the centre of gravity is raised feet , so as to be in same , position as if the ship were a homogeneous body , and , second , if it is raised a further feet , so as to be as much above this point in fig. 16 as it is it in fig. 14 .
A comparison of these figures will show that , except in the case of a very high centre of gravity , the stability at Iight draughts with various positions of centre of gravity is less than at deep draughts .
It appears , therefore , that in the case of this ship , and she is a type of many mercantile passenger steamers , the proposition respecring the equality of the stability at light and deep which has been shown to apply to homogeneous symmetrical bodies , requires 228 Variation of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
modffication in a direction which is disadvantageous to light When there are equal volumes above and below water in this the righting moments at the light drallghts are generally much than at the deep draughts , exceptwhen ths centre of gravity is Ssively , and , for this class of ship , unusually high .
The analogy that exists between light draught and deep draught bability in floating bodies of approximately symmetricaI forms , and particularly the point of resemblance aflorded by the fact that what is a wedge of immersion in one case is that of emersion in the other , and vice , cannot fail to have struck some who have had to calculate the stability of bodies floating at light draughts , but attention has never been prominently called to it .
It is desirable , however , that the connexion between the two cases shouId be fully realised , and the dangers peculiar to very light draught of water appreciated as thoroughly as are those which attach to low freeboard .
Just as lvas said in 1871 , in a passage already quoted , that metacentric height was ] , by general consent , taken as a sufficiently good standard of comparison in judging of the stability a ship would have , on account of ' the vague impression that the angle would be very large at which the ship became unstable so , since the introduction of curves of stability , the dangers attaching to draught have been frequently lost of , because of the equally vague impression that , so as a vessel has a high side out of water , and amy Varieties and Morphology of the Human Bone .
229 height , she will have large righting moments at great and a large range of stability .
The investigations at the time of the " " Daphne\ldquo ; disaster , and the discussions these and the elaborate report of the Government CommisSir E. J. Beed , have caused , now place this question upon a different footing ; but at the tims referred to the gsneral appears to have been as stated .
The considerations set forth in this paper are mainly intended to draw attention to the necessity for taking a more comprehensive view of the problem of stability than has formerly prevailed , by investithe cross-curves of stability of ships , and thus ascertaining the righting momsnts at fixed angles of inclination vary with draught of water .
They also aim at showing how the stability at inclinations does vary in some ships with draught of water , and becomes comparatively small at light draughts .
In designing ships other structures which are required to float safely at very light draughts of water , such calculations are necessary if accidents are to be prevented .
In some cases the necessity is as great , or eve1l than for vessels of low freeboard .
The subject is so extensive that I feel quite unable to attempt any treatment of it at the present time .
All that has now possible is to call attention to some of its main features to show why it requires to be followed up and thoroughly " " Notes on the Varieties and Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone and its Accessory Ossicies By A. MACALISTER , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Received March14 , 1884 .
Read March 27 .
[ PLATES 1\mdash ; 3 .
] Having examined 10001achrymal bones and soft parts of the lachrymal region of over 300 orbits , I have compilsd therefrom the following notes on the anatomy of these parts .
The lachrymal is one of the most variable bones in the human skull , and one of the most being frequently destroyed by careless or ignorant of handling crania .
I. I have notes of two*instances of deficiency of the lachrymal In one of these cases the whole val of the groove is formed the nasal process of the maxilla in front , and by the ethmoid and * I have since seen eight additional instances of absence , in the Hunterian and collections , five being in Hindoo crania , two in Negroes , in noue of which there any trace of synostosis .

