14 Mr. J. Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plants and the [ Dec. 18 , about the Medusae derived from Gymnoblastic or Calyptoblastic hydroids .
Direct development has been shown to occur in two or three genera of the Trachylinse ( , JEJgineta , \amp ; c. ) , whereas regarding the life-cycle of the other forms we know nothing .
The hydroid here described is now in an immature condition .
It may be a creeping stolon , which when further developed will resemble other hy droids ; it may turn out not to be comparable to other hydroids , and to be a fixed sporosac of some kind ; but if it grows into an adult form resembling the form at present known , it may serve as the type of a new group of hydroids related to the Trachyline Medusoids .
December 18 , 1884 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
It was announced that the question of the re-admission into the Society of Mr. James Bateman would be put to the vote at the next meeting .
The Chairman gave notice that the President had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Warren de la Rue-Sir Frederick Evans .
Professor W. H. Flower .
Sir Joseph Hooker .
Pursuant to notice , Mr. Alfred Cornu and Professor James Dwight Dana were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Evidence of Fossil Plants regarding the Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the North-East Atlantic .
" By J. Starkie Gardner .
Communicated by Sir J. D. Hooker , K. C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1884 .
In the following communication I desire to make known to the Society some of the results which I obtained by means of grant given to me by the Government Grant Committee .
Brief and incomplete 1884 .
] Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the Atlantic .
as these notes on the fossil plants must necessarily be at the present stage , they will , I trust , serve to disclose how enormously increased our knowledge must become when the study of these plants shall have been completed .
An interpretation of them , very different to that current prior to the investigations undertaken by means of the grant , is now possible , affecting questions far beyond the immediate issues .
That this preliminary notice may be confined to the briefest treatment that the subject admits , I have refrained from encumbering it with purely geological matter , and as far as possible I have avoided theoretical considerations .
The former I have embodied in two papers to be laid before the Geological Society , and the latter I have already discussed in a lecture to the Belfast Field Naturalists ' Club , I am happy to think with the result that many of the subjects pointed out as requiring further investigation have already received attention that bids fair to set some of the most unsettled questions at rest .
Ballypalady .
The collection I have made consists of several hundred specimens , procured mainly from the piles of ore waiting shipment on the quays at Belfast , as well as in situ in the quarries .
Mr. Stuart , F.L.S. , has since collected for the Belfast Museum , and has allowed me to make the fullest use of the specimens , but I have not yet thoroughly examined the collections in Dublin previously made by Mr. Bailey .
The present collection could be largely and easily supplemented .
The plants occur in a ferruginous and indurated sandy clay , and the matrix is not very favourable for the preservation of the fine venation of leaves .
Ferns.\#151 ; These are very rare .
A macerated pinna indicates a F ter is , with undulating mid-rib and crenate margin , belonging probably to an Arctic fossil species .
Other fragments agree with Benitzia minima , Saporta and Marion , from the Heersien stage of Gelinden .
Conifers.\#151 ; These are relatively very numerous , and six plates and a half have already been published of them by the Palaeontographical Society .
The Cupressinece are represented by a very abundant form , indistinguishable from the existing Cupressus torulosa of the Himalayas , and probably identical with the Chamcecyparis of Saporta and Marion .
The somewhat starved , formerly Sequoia Du Noyeri , is the only member of the Taxodiece , and seems identical with the Sequoia subulata of the Arctic so-called Upper Cretaceous .
Some twigs look like Taxus .
There are two Pines , both characteristic of the warmest regions in which Pines now exist ; there are some leathery cones referable to Tsuga , and a seed very possibly of Abies .
All except the latter and Taxus are very abundant .
Mr. Bailey includes Taxodium in his list , but I do not know upon what grounds , and the 16 Mr. J. Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plants and the [ Dec. 18 , figure of Torellia rigida , by Baily , is certainly no more than a fragment of a monocotyledonous leaf .
Monocotyledons.\#151 ; These are of the usual character , proving that several reedy plants are present .
One of these is evidently the plant known as Typha latissima , and in some cases the reticulated venation is exquisitely preserved .
Dicotyledons.\#151 ; The leaves of about five-and-twenty species of trees or shrubs have been obtained , a fourth of which may perhaps eventually prove determinable .
There is fruit or foliage of an Aluns , apparently identical with the Arctic fossil A. Kefersteini .
The most abundant leaf does not seem distinguishable from Benedeni , Saporta and Marion , of the Gelinden Heersien , and one of the widespread type of leaves known as is represented .
The same water-lily , Nelumbium Buchii , Ett .
, that is met with at Monte Promina and in the Aquitanian of Switzerland , is also present here .
Of the remainder , the pieces of MacClintockia and of the oaklike leaf of Glenarm Quercus groenlandi ( ?
) deserve notice , and are relatively of small size .
Most of the leaves in this deposit are in fact small , and none are palmate or lobed .
The most remarkable fossil is an echinated globose body , which appears to be a fruit varying in size from a pea to a damson . .
It is sprinkled in great profusion over some of the slabs , in the shape of very deep cavities , which I for some time thought to be air-bubbles .
The larger ones seem to have been lobed .
All other fruits , even the fir-cones , are highly compressed , but this one is not in the least so , and must have thoroughly resisted pressure until the beds were quite consolidated .
No trace of lignite , nor of other matters , remains in the casts , though the impress seems that of an organic body , yet it seems hardly possible to imagine any kind of plant to which it could have belonged , so variable in size and of such strange consistence must it have been .
In spite of its organic look , there must remain doubt as to whether these cavities may not be dne to the removal of some inorganic crystalline body .
Glenarm .
The mine whence these fossils are obtained had been under water for several years at the time of my first visit .
The collection made by Mr. Baily for the British Association was from the spoil-bank , and also a few possessed by Mr. Gray .
Mr. Swanston accompanied me on a second visit , and fragments obtained by us from the spoil-bank decided me to get the mine freed from water if practicable .
Mr. Walter Jamieson , of the Eglinton Works at Glenarm , kindly assisted , and a fortnight 's work enabled me to dig specimens from the bed in situ .
Ferns.\#151 ; A week 's work fortunately put me in possession of several 1884.1 Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the Atlantic .
well-preserved pinnae of a fern , seemingly identical with Pteris Grcenlandica , Heer , and very characteristic of the Arctic Tertiaries .
Conifers.\#151 ; The only conifer and the prevailing plant is a The branchlets are densely tufted and sub-parallel , forking at very acute angles , and frequently bearing cones .
There is apparently no character to distinguish it from the existing species .
It was named Sequoia Du Noyeri by Mr. Bailey , and doubtless some of the foliage from Arctic Tertiaries referred to Sequoia may also belong to it .
The range of the existing genus is so restricted and definite , that its discovery in a fossil state in Ireland is of special interest .
Monocotyledons.\#151 ; These are abundant , but afford no recognisable characters .
Two or three diverging rush leaves side by side on the matrix sometimes almost appear to be a fragment of a palm leaf , and I cannot resist the suspicion that Heer may have been misled by a similar appearance into describing palms as occurring in the Tertiary flora of Greenland .
They would , however , not easily be mistaken by one accustomed to collect fossil palms in the field .
Dicotyledons.\#151 ; The prevailing form is a large pinnatified deciduous leaf , with a close and even texture , such as that of the Plane , Chestnut , or Tulip-tree .
It is very variable in form , though scarcely more so than many of the OaJcs , which it most resembles , or even the Spanish chestnut .
Pealings of a thin bark are not uncommon , and this with the absence of anything like acorns leads to some hesitation in adopting Heer 's determination of leaves , which are almost its counterpart , as Quercus Furuhjelmus , from Alaska , and Quercus Grcenlandica , from Atanekerdluk .
Fragments of this one leaf have been named from Ireland alone as Platanus Guillehnce , Acer , Quercus , Sassafras , and probably Alnus Kefersteini .
Though there are no fruits to furnish a clue to its genus , it was probably a tree of large dimensions .
A rather smaller and more uncommon leaf has simple margins and more leathery texture , but cannot probably be determined generically .
The most interesting leaf is that known as MacClintocTcia , or Daphnogene Kanii , a lanceolate leaf , with three or more mid-ribs , connected by an irregular network of veins .
The examples are very fine indeed in this locality , a perfect leaf measuring nearly a foot in length , while some imperfect ones seem as if they may have exceeded this to double .
The same species occurs in the Arctic floras and in the Heersien stage of the Lower Eocene of Gelinden .
Its true affinities seem still unknown , but it does not seem to have been an evergreen , and somehow suggests rather a shrubby than an arborescent growth .
A small ovate dicotyledonous leaf , devoid of character , has been figured as Praxinus , by Mr. Bailey , and other genera mentioned as occurring in these beds are Corylus and Rhamnus .
Nothing came to light while I was working at the bed to suggest either of these genera except a fragment in the spoil-bank , which might possibly represent the former .
VOIi .
XXXVIII .
c 18 Mr. J. Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plants and the [ Dec. 18 , The Tough Neagh Neds .
The flora of these beds presents characters that are difficult to reconcile .
The beds have been pierced to a depth of nearly 300 feet without base , and their accumulation must therefore represent a vast interval of time , during which many changes in the character of the flora of the surrounding country may , or I might venture to say must , have taken place .
The flora is evidently one of .
very great variety , and almost entirely dicotyledonous .
Though plant remains appear to be abundant throughout the entire thickness , we are only acquainted with them through their impressions in ironstone nodules , picked up on the shore of Sandy Bay , and these it seems likely are for the most part from the upper beds of the formation .
I have determined but very few of them .
Ferns.\#151 ; Two species have been described by Mr. Bailey : one , Lastrcea stiriaca , ranges in time from the Middle Eocene to the Miocene , and in distance from Greenland to Switzerland and Devonshire , where it abounds at Bovey Tracey .
The second , Goniopteris JBunburii , Heer , is rare at Bovey , but commoner at Bournemouth , and does not , I think , occur in Greenland .
Conifers.\#151 ; I have not seen any conifer myself , but Mr. Baily 's list mentions Sequoia Couttsice , which I think may be a form of the Cupressus of Ballypalady ; Ephedra also occurs .
Monocotyledons .
\#151 ; The most interesting discovery is that of a Eioscorea , identical with one of the most abundant and characteristic leaves at Bournemouth , mentioned sometimes as a Cinnamon .
It is also met with in the Aquitanian stage of Switzerland , and seems to occupy and denote a very definite zone of age , as it is wanting in the newer English Eocenes , Dicotyledons.\#151 ; One nodule contained several leaves of Platanusy identical with the Beading form and characteristic in England of the Beading beds , below the London Clay .
Another leaf is that known as Corylus Macquarrii , from Mull and Greenland .
On the other hand , there are remains of the Cinnamomum lanceolatum of Bovey and Bournemouth , not hitherto found to the north .
Two well-marked fruits are present , which can be referred unhesitatingly to the genera Alnus and Nyssa .
The number of small-leaved dicotyledons referable probably to living genera , give the flora a relatively modern aspect , but many of them , I am convinced , are identical with plants of Greenland and Gelinden .
The flora , as a whole , cannot be newer I think than the Middle Eocene , and it is the first important link connecting the Middle Eocene floras of England with those of the far north .
1884 .
] Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the Atlantic .
Ardtun Head ( Mull ) .
The specimens exhibited are the result of one day 's work .
I believe that some of the larger leaves obtained were perfect , but they broke in transit , owing to the brittle nature of the apparently hard matrix .
Those previously collected are too fragmentary , and good specimens might easily be obtained by quarrying away the basalt .
As the bed is extensive , collections might be made from different spots , and greater variety of plants procured .
The leaf-bed is clearly in the track of an ancient river , whose former bed must be exposed in other parts of Mull .
1Terns.\#151 ; The only one is abundant , but represented by torn fragments , owing to the original tender consistence of the fronds .
It is no less plentiful and broken up in some of the Greenland beds , whence it was described by Heer as Hemitelites .
This was corrected by Professor Newberry to Onoclea sensibilis , the only species of a genus now \#166 ; wholly confined to North America .
It is unknown from any other locality.in Europe .
The jointed and striated stems of j are also abundant .
Conifers.\#151 ; A number of short pieces of branchlets have been found at Mull by Mr. Koch , and at Canna , which cannot be distinguished from the Ballypalady Cryptomeria .
Linear leaves , possibly of Sciadopitys or an Abies , are rarer .
The specimen originally figured by Edward Forbes as Taxites Campbelli still remains unique , though said by Lyell to be the most abundant conifer .
It was claimed by Heer as Sequoia Lav gsdorjU , and was one of the three species which led him to consider the deposit to be of Miocene age .
It is a coniferous branchlet with distichous foliage , and without definite generic character .
Similar foliage from Disco has also been determined to be the same species , but on what basis is not apparent .
Plenty of distichous foliage , but of different type , has been found at Mackenzie River and Spitzbergen , but it hardly follows that because these were referable to Sequoia , all distichous foliage must be equally so .
The genera Taxus and Taxites have been almost expunged from lists of Tertiary fossils , yet the extreme antiquity of Taxus cannot be doubted , and there is no reason to exclude it from Tertiary floras , for it has a wide distribution now and many species .
Sequoia forms considerable groves , and where met with fossil , occurs in abundance ; but the Yew is solitary , and while the fruits of the former , if associated , could not escape detection , the berries of the latter might easily be overlooked .
Moriocotyledons.\#151 ; There is the usual proportion of reeds and rushes inseparable from plant-beds formed by river-side .
Dicotyledons.\#151 ; The upper part of the bed is choked with large leaves of a roughly palmate form , seemingly to the exclusion of all 20 Mr. J. Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plant* and the [ Dec. 18 , others , unless the great size of the leaf forms so favourable a cleavage plane that no smaller leaves get exposed .
The leaf is cordate , imperfectly lobed , serrate , with much the same venation and texture as the Lime or the Mulberry .
It is so large that no perfect specimen has yet been obtained , though there need be no difficulty in doing so .
The leaf varies from imperfectly cordate to trilobed .
It is the hebridicus of Edward Eorbes , and according to Heer , but many species seem included under the latter name , only some among them belonging truly to Platanus .
The Mull-leaf is quite unlike Platanus , and of altogether different texture .
The prevailing and almost the only leaf in the lower half of the bed is that figured as Rhamnites by Forbes .
It is an oblong leaf , with simple margin and feather veined , varying in length from 1 to 3 inches , and could hardly be determined without some further clue .
There are also leaves known as Corylus Macquarrii , also found at Lough Neagh , a leaf like a , another Greenland leaf known as Corylus an ovate leaf , probably Cornus hyperborea , with , seven mid-ribs , and two or three other indeterminable fragments .
A remarkable , but not singular , fact about these floras is the great differences between the appearance and composition of the several groups of plants from Ballypalady , Glenarm , and Ballintoy .
Dismissing the latter , which merely contains small leaves of and a hazel-like leaf , we notice that the remaining two present a very .strong contrast in point of the relative luxuriance of growth of the plants contained in them .
The Glenarm plants were large leafy trees and shrubs , while the Ballypalady leaves are much smaller , and a large proportion of the plants are coniferous .
They possess , however , enough species in common to establish their relative synchrony , and they are practically on the same horizon : but these very species have quite a different aspect from the two localities , the Cryptomeria iru.it and foliage especially being dense and luxuriant from the one , and poor and starved from the other .
Moreover , the Pines and Cypress , so abundant at Ballypalady , are completely absent from Glenarm .
The differences are in fact just such as a great discrepancy in the altitude of the stations might produce , but in view of the fact that both sets of beds were in all probability deposited in one river channel , and of the horizontality of the Basalt flows , no such considerable difference of level could be possible in so short a distance .
The relative luxuriance at Glenarm must therefore have been due to a sheltered aspect , soil , and other favourable conditions , and the possibility of such causes modifying to an extent where resemblance almost ceases , two floras that are contemporaneous , and comprise many of the same species , and within a few miles of each other , teaches what excessive caution we should use in drawing inferences from fossil plants .
These three floras , which are below the horizon of the 1884.1 Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the Atlantic .
columnar Basalts , agree in one particular ; they are all characterised by the presence of the peculiar triple nerved leaf called The flora of Lough Neagh differs considerably from the others .
The plant-beds , instead of being only a few feet thick , exceed 300 feet in thickness , and as only the upper part of the mass is accessible , those collected may be of newer relative age , as their aspect indeed suggests .
The most typical of the older Basaltic plants are absent , but some of the minor leaves are common to Ballypalady and also to Mull , and I do not think they can be placed higher in the Tertiary series than Eocene , and they certainly do not appear to me to be Pliocene , as supposed by the Geological Survey of Ireland .
The Mull flora , being among the columnar Basalts , is stratigraphically newer than those of Antrim , with the probable exception of the Lough Neagh beds , and MacGlintockia is absent from it .
We thus see that the three floras of greatest antiquity , though differing widely from each other in other respects , are all characterised by the presence in them in abundance of MacGlintockia , whilst those which we have stratigraphical evidence for believing to be of newer age are destitute of anything resembling it .
Now MacGlintockia only occurs in one stratum whose age has been fixed wholly independently of plants .
This is the Heersien stage of Gelinden , a stage very low down in the Eocene of Belgium , and older than any Eocene represented in England .
Our floras from the Woolwich and the Reading beds are now tolerably well known .
They are younger than the Gelinden flora , and contain no MacGlintockia , just as we have remarked with the younger floras of the Basalts , but the prevailing type in them , a Platanus , does occur at Lough Neagh .
Here we have fossil evidence of precisely the same nature that we have been accustomed to regard as conclusive when dealing with anything but vegetables\#151 ; MacGlintockia characterises the Heersien stage in the only locality in which a flora of that age is known , and it is not met with elsewhere or at any other horizon in Europe .
There is not a particle of other positive evidence as to the age of the Antrim Basaltic floras , except that they are posterior to an horizon in the White Chalk , but the physical grounds for assigning a high antiquity to the Basalts are overwhelming .
This is not the place to enter into them , and I have recently stated them at some length .
The floras cannot be Miocene , for they have not a single plant in them common to any European Miocene deposit , and if Eocene , they must , in the absence of anything contradictory , be placed in the only Eocene horizon in which precisely the same plants are found .
The same with the Lough Neagh beds ; stratigraphically they appear to be newer than the rest- ; they contain a particular plant that the others do not , and this plant is eminently characteristic of the Reading series of the Eocene and of no other , for it is absent from the older flora of Gelinden , just as it 22 Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the Atlantic .
[ Dec. 18 , is in Antrim , and from all the newer floras of the Eocene .
I have chosen the commonest and most striking types to base my argument upon , for the sake of brevity , but I could support them by reference to the other plants which , so far as I have examined them , entirely support them .
Were the belief in the Miocene ages of these beds not so deeply rooted , it would be unnecessary to prove what is self-evident .
Where the ages of Tertiary rocks have been decided upon plant evidence alone , we should , I think , accept them for the present with great reserve .
MacGlintoclcia seems , so far as we know , to be an extinct and striking type which had a definite range in time , but many of the plants associated with it have persisted to the present day almost without modification .
Still , their presence in England may be equally indicative of a definite age of rock , though it would not do to extend the use of their presence as standards of antiquity to strata in their own existing habitats .
Thus , Onoclea sensibilis represents a definite stage in Mull , but as a United States fossil , where it still lives , we cannot say that its occurrence proves strata to be contemporary with those of Mull .
So with Osmunda , aurewm , Araucaria Gunninghami , Gryptomeria japonica , Taxodium and many others , still living ; they mark a definite horizon here , or period at which they flourished , and then disappeared , but in course of their subsequent migrations they may have appeared in other countries at quite different dates , and to draw comparisons as to the relative ages of rocks from their presence in them might be most misleading .
I have not been to Greenland , and I do not therefore know how the plant-beds occur there .
Some of the plants are identical with those of the Antrim Basalts , some with those of Mull , and some with plants from Lough Neagh .
Whether these are from one horizon or from several I do not know , but they are embedded in different qualities of rock , and presumably therefore come from different levels .
Not a shadow of stratigraphical evidence has been brought forward for assigning them to any particular stage of the Tertiaries , but it would seem natural to classify them rather with the most tropical of the Eocene periods , that of the London Clay , than with any other , as their presence so far north , when so high a temperature prevailed in our latitude , presents little or no physical improbability .
The London Clay period was preceded in England by a relatively very temperate climate , and the plant-beds of Greenland are preceded by an unfossiliferous zone , marking a period when no floras were in existence so far north .
There is already abundant evidence ' that many plants and animals passed from Europe to America by way of these high latitudes during the Eocene , and evidence of every kind points to some of the plant-beds at least being of early Eocene age .
The Icelandic fossil plant-beds I have ascertained to be on an altogether different and far newer 1884 .
] Balanoglossus Kowalevskii { Agassiz ) , fyc .
horizon , relative to those of the British Basalts , and their floras do bear a resemblance to some of those said to be Miocene of Central Europe ; but as for the Greenland plants brought home by Whymper and by Colo mb , they have no Miocene characters whatever , and there should be no hesitation in referring them to the same ages as the Basaltic floras of our own country .
II .
" Note on the Later Stages in the Development of glossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , and on the Affinities of the Enteropneusta .
" By William Bateson , B.A. , Scholar of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 4 , 1884 .
In the " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , " vol. xxiv , n.s. , p. 208 , I described the embryonic stages in the development of a small species of Balanoglossus which is found on the American coast .
By a direct embryonic development , this animal reaches the condition in which one pair of gill-slits is present , no " Tomaria " stage being passed through .
I have since had an opportunity of observing the further development of this form until it becomes a mature animal possessing from thirteen to forty pairs of gill-slits .
The remarks which follow contain a preliminary account of the steps by which this condition is reached .
At the time of hatching , the body of the animal consists of four regions : ( 1 ) a conical proboscis bearing at its apex a tuft of long cilia ; ( 2 ) a very short collar-region ; followed by ( 3 ) a dilatation of the body , in the dorso-lateral regions of which a pair of gill-openings soon appear .
Immediately behind these gill-slits is a transverse ring of cilia , which separates the third region from ( 4 ) the anal region .
The opening of the mouth is still ventrally directed , and the anus opens at the dorsal side of the posterior surface in the middle line .
The following are the external changes which then occur:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The transverse ring of cilia disappears , being absent in larvae possessing two pairs of gill-slits .
The apical tuft of cilia also disappears .
The cilia which cover the whole body increase in size , and unicellular glands appear in the skin , especially of the proboscis , giving it a speckled appearance .
The tissues become gradually more transparent , presumably from the consumption of the yolk particles with which the cells had previously been filled .
( 2* ) As the cilia disappear , a remarkable temporary organ anoears in the form of a conical process , or tail , arising from the posterior

