Additional Observations tending to investigate the Symptoms of the variable Emission of the Light and Heat of the Sun ; with Trials to set aside darkening Glasses , by transmitting the Solar Rays through Liquids ; and a few Remarks to remove Objections that might be made against some of the Arguments contained in the former Paper .
By .
William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read May 14 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 354 .
] This may be considered as a supplement to Dr. Herschel 's paper on the nature of the sun , lately read to the Society , and consists chiefly of a continuation of his observations on the appearances of that body from the 2nd of March to the 3rd of May last .
Conceiving that there might be some advantage in getting rid of the darkening glasses in viewing the sun , he was led to substitute for them various liquors , such as spirits of wine , port wine , ink diluted with water , a solution of green vitriol with a small proportion of tincture of galls , and even plain water ; which latter he found keeps off the heat so effectually , that the brightest sun may be viewed some time througl it without any inconvenience .
Through diluted ink , the image of the sun appeared as white as snow ; and when the liquor was still more diluted , the sun was of a purple hue , while the objects on its surface continued as distinct as when seen through any other medium .
From these observations the author infers that the continuance of the symptoms which in his former paper he considered as favourable to the copious emission of light and heat from the sun , are sufficiently verified , and that by comparing these phrenomena with the corresponding mildness of the season , his arguments respecting the connexion between them and the temperature of our atmosphere acquire no small degree of probability .
Being well aware that the price of wheat which he adopted in his former paper as a criterion of the seasons is.liable to some objections , the author desires here to be understood , that his intention was merely to compare the astronomical fact of the variable emission of the sun 's rays with the obvious symptoms corresponding with that circumstance ; leaving it to others to apply the subject to such useful ceconomical purposes as may be found to have any relation to them : at any rate , he cannot relinquish the hope that astronomy will ultimately supply us with the means of deriving certain prognostics of the temperature of the seasons from accurate observations on the quantity of the light we receive from the sun .

