March 14 , 1850 .
GEORGE RENNIE , Esq. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Faraday 's paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
Twenty-third Series .
ยง 29 .
On the Polar or other condition of Diamagnetic Bodies : " was resumed and concluded .
The author , whilst developing , on a former occasion , the phenomena of diamagnetic action , said that all the results might be accounted for by assuming that bismuth , phosphorus , &amp;c. , when in the magnetic field , became polar as iron is polar , but with the poles in the contrary direction .
This view has since then been adopted by Weber and others , and supported by certain experimental results .
In the present paper these results and that view are brought under very close examination .
An apparatus was constructed by which a cylinder of any given metal could be moved to and fro through about two inches in the direction of its axis .
In doing this it approached close up to , and then retreated from the pole of an electro-magnet , and also mroved within a helix of covered wire which was fixed in relation to the magnet .
Now the action of such a piece of metal upon the helix is very different in theory , and also in reality , according as it is dependent upon a polarity , magnetic or diamagnetic , acquired by the metal , or upon induced currents existing in the mass ; and the question was to ascertain by experiment whether the latter were the cause of the results obtained by Weber and others .
The various diamagnetic metals gave the results looked for at the indicating galvanometer ; but then these were almost insensible with bismuth , and were greatest with gold , silver , copper , and the better conductors , being indeed in proportion to the conducting power .
Such results were in favour of induced currents rather than of polarity .
Division was next resorted to as a distinguishing test of the polar or current action ; thus a cylinder made up of lengths of wires acted as well as a solid cylinder , if the metal were one acquiring a polar state as iron ; but such a division interfered with the existence of induced currents in the mass , and it was found that such wire cylinders of copper , &amp;c. lost all power .
On the other hand , division of the cylinder into innumerable discs interfered greatly with polarity , but not at all with the induced currents , nor with the action of the diamagnetic metals .
The places of maximum and minimum action of a cylinder of metal are very different according as that metal acts by a polar condition , or by currents induced in the mass : it is shown by experiments with the diamagnetic metals that S their places of maximum and minimum action accord with the effects of induced currents .
Time has great effect over results produced by currents induced in the mass , and none over those due to polarity .
By this test the effects of the diamagnetic metals are found due to induced currents .
The phenomena produced by the use of the present apparatus are then shown to be in close and direct relation to the phenomena of revulsion formerly described by the author : the parallel is closely carried out and extended , and both sets of effects referred to one and the same cause , The author endeavours to repeat an experiment described by IReich , but without success ; and he finds that even when iron is used no arrangement of magnets can produce any test of polarity at all comparable to the use of an astatic needle or to suspension between the poles of a powerful magnet , and thinks that arrangements which are thus less sensible with iron are not likely to be more sensible with diaimagnetic metals , even if they are polar .
Finally , the author does not consider that the idea of diamagnetic polarity has gained as yet any additional proof bevond the fact that diamagnetic bodies , such as bismuth and phosphorus , are repelled by one or both magnetic poles ; he does not reject the idea of polarity , but his opinion or judgment remains the same as at the time of its announcement in 1845 .

