]\gt ; is considerable .
As a means of determining the extent to which acidi or basic ionisation , as distinguished from saline ionisation , has taken place , measurements of electromotive force with hydrogen electrodes may , in some instances , be applied with success .
Experiments in this direction are at present in " " The Electrical Conductivity and other of Sodium Hydroxide in Aqueous Solution , as elucidating the Mechanism of Conduction By WILLIAM ROBERT BOUSFIELD , M.A. , K.C. , M.P. , and THOMAS MARTIN , D.Sc .
, Lecturer in Physical Chemistry and CrystallogIaphy at the Central Technical College .
Communicated by Professor H. .
Received June 24 , \mdash ; Read November 17 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The iginal object of the research was to investigate the decay , as the temperalure rises , in the " " ising \ldquo ; properties of water ; which is manifest , especially in the case of the ] kalies , in the inflected character of the curves expressing the relation betwee1l temperature and conductivity in aqueous solutions.* It was found , however , that the available data for the physical properties generally of the alkalies were very few ; the inquiry was , therefore , extended so as to include the measurement of the density and conductivity of solutions of sodium hydroxide at C. , as wsll as of the temperature co-efficients of conductivity and density .
The great viscosity of the more concentrated solutions being very noticeable , measurements of viscosity were also made , in order to correIate this property with the low conductivity of these solutions .
The principal results of the investigation are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) In the most dilute solutions , in which ' ionisation\ldquo ; is nearly complete , the curves expressing the relation between molecular conductivity and temperaturs are not inflected between and C. They resemble the curves representing the changes in viscosity with temperaturs in diluto aqueous solutions .
Concentrated solutions also give curves that are not inflected .
In these solutions a very rapid increase of conductivity takes place as the lemperature is raised : the conductivity of a 50-per-cent .
solution * Compare ' Rov .
So Proc 1902 , vol. 71 , pp. 42\mdash ; 54 .
On the Mechanism Conduetion .
increasing 5-fold between and and 80-fold between and C. ; the form of the conductivity-temperature curves again , .
to be determined mainly by molecular changes rendered npparent in the rapid changes of viscosity which ccompany changes of temperature .
Moderately dilute solutions give curves that are inflected between and ; a regular can be drawn connectthe temperature of inflection with the perceutage of sodium hydroxide in the solution : this temperature reaches a minimum , at C. , in the case of a normal ( 4 per cent solution , but rises to C. when the concentration is raised to 30 per cent. ( 2 ) The inflected conductivity-temperature curves can be represented by the simple cubic formula where is the temperature of inflection .
As this formula is unsatisfactory when applied to curves that are not inflected between C. , a formula was devised which was based upon the three factors of concentratio1l , ionisation and ionic mobility , on which the variations of specific conductivity depend .
The influence of temperature on the density , and therefore on the concentration , been experimentally determined and can be directly allowed for ; order to express the influence of temperature on the other two factors , it has been assumed that the variation of ionic mobility with temper ture may be expressed by a formula similar to that of Slotte for the variation of fluidity and that the decay of ionisation with rising temperature may be expressed by a formula similar to that of Abegg and Seitz for the decrease in the dielectric constant The formula , which has been used to express the influence of temperature on conductivity , has the advantages that it is applicable to conductivity-temperature ourves of all kinds , definite physical neaning can be given to each of the constants , and that it gives expression , not only to the inflection now under consideration , but also to the maximum conductivity and the second inflection in the general conductivity-temperature curve .
What is , perhaps , of even greater importance , is the fact that it has been found possible , with the help of this formula , to make some approximation to resolving the two opposing influences which determine the form of this curve .
( 3 ) The de1lsity tables for caustic soda , in general use until about 10 years ago , were based on ths measurements of Dalton and of is correctly given is that of Pickering ( 1894 ) .
Pickering 's solution , were prepared from pnrified material , but were standardised by titr , .
tion , and can therefore be relied on only to the third place of decimah The re-determination of the densities was undertaken in order to a method of standardisation that should be more accurate than titration .
Quantities of sodium , amounting to about 150 grammes time , were erted quantitatively into concentratuI tions of sodium hydroxide by the action of steam in a platinum vessel .
deternuitions , made with six different standard solutions , gave , its the density of a 50-psr-cent .
solution , the value , with an average error of .
Solutions of known concen- trations having been prepared dilution , their densities were determined ; it was thelt possible , by measuring the density , co determine the percentage of sodium hydroxide in any pure solution , with an error only one-tenth as gre as that introduced in standardising by titration .
This method contributed eatly to the accuracy of the electrical measurements ; in the absenoe of such a method , the measuremsnts of some of the earlier investigators have been vitiated by in the tion , to as much as 2 per cent. on the total weight of kali in the solution .
( 4 ) The determination of the conductivity at C. of solutionl prepal.ed in this led to results which , although slightly different from the earlier ) servations of Kohlrausch , gave a of similar form .
The maximum lctivity at C. is in a 15-per-cent .
solution , the value given by Kohlrausch being .
At higher tem- peratures the maximum conductivity is considerably greater , rising to over at , and occurs in solutions of concentration .
( 5 ) The viscosity of a 50-per-cent .
solution of sodium hydroxide is npproximately seventy times as great as that of water .
This increas6 of viscosity must produce a Iarge effect on the ionic mobility ; the influence of this factor be to some extent eliminated by dividing the molecular conductivity the fluidity , and this ratio we have called the " " intrinsic conductivity\ldquo ; of the solution .
Whilst the molecular conductivity of sodium hydroxide soIutions bteadily as the concentration is increased , the intrinsic conductivity falls to a minimum at per cent. NaOH , and then rises , per cent. NaOH , the value is considerably greater than in the most dilute solutions .
It is believed that this increase is to the that liquid soda is an electrolyte , per se , and that , in concentrated soltltions , the current is conveyed partly by the soda alone , as if it were in the fused state .
( 6 ) A study of the influence of temperature on the density revealed the fact that the addition of soda produces a simplification in The Refractive Indices of the may be attributed to the destruction by the soda of the icepresent in the water .
In the formula which represents the influence of temperature on the density of water and aqueous solutions of soda , the coefficient of vanishes when a concentration of 12 per cent. NaOH is reached , whilst the coefficient of vanishes at 42 per cent. ; at the latter ooncentration there is simple linear relationship between density and temperature .
( 7 ) The molecular volume of sodium hydroxide in dilute aqueous solution has a large negative value , a litre of water dissolving 140 grammes of sodium hydroxide at , 100 grammes at , or 60 grammes at , without increasing in volume .
It is noteworthy that the molecular volume does not incl e as the temperature rises , but reaches a maximum value at about C. In a 50-per-cent .
olution , however , the temperattlre has little effect on the molecular volume , the extreme variation being only about 10 per cent. " " The Refractive Indices of Elements By CLIVE municated by Professor F. T. , F.B.S. Beceived October 18 , \mdash ; Read November ) , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) In a letter addressed to 'Nature , ' in October , 190 attention was drawn to the fact that the refractivities of the five inert gases of the 'atmosphere , He , No , , Kr , and X , as determined by Ramsay and Travers , wers , within narrow limits of accuracy , in the proportion of 1 , 2 , 8 , 12 and 20 ; or .
more simply , of , 2 , 3 , and 5 .
In a second letter it was shown that the refractivities of the halogens , Cl , Br , and I , stand also in the relation of 2 , 3 , and 1- ) to the same degree of accuracy ; but it was pointed out that the figures for As , and , as measured by M. Le Roux in 1861 , did nol show any similar relation ; and it was observed that a redetermination of them would be interesting .
With a Jamin 's refractometer , adapted for use with high temperatures , results have now been obtained for Hg , , and , which differ widely from those of M. Le Roux .
The index of meroury , Calculated for molecule two atoms , is placed a number which agrees closely with the value given by the refractive equivalent ; of Gladstone .
The index of is found to be and that of is In all three cases it is estimated that the margin of error does not VOL. LXXIV .

