138 Hon. R. Abercromby .
Relation between and when dVjdx \#151 ; 0 , logo ; 5a ; 2 + 4a ; +1 10a ; 2 + 4a ; [ Feb. 24 , This will be satisfied by making x somewhat less than T9 , so that in this case the ratio of the diameters of the drums would be a little less and very close to the ratio found for the pulleys .
In order to illustrate the foregoing problems a model of a train of pulleys and another of a train of drums made of brass were constructed by Mr. Yates .
In the train of pulleys all the large ones are 1*9 inches in diameter , and all the small are 1 inch .
Each of the former weighs 2-61 oz. , and each of the latter 1-058 oz. ; as there are five pairs their total weight is 18-340 oz. , while they give a velocity ratio of ( T9)6 = 24*761 , or a little more than 24^ .
The train of drums consists of large ones with diameters of 2*55 inches and small of 1 inch , the hoops are in all 0"5 inch in breadth , and the spokes are half the volume of a complete disk .
The weights of the large drums are each 3'386 oz. , of the small 0'811 oz. There are four pairs of drums , and their total weight is 16'788 oz. , or little more than 1 lb. The velocity ratio of this train is ( 51/ 20)4 = 42*2825 , or a little more than 42\#163 ; .
II .
" On the Relation between Tropical and Extra-Tropical Cyclones .
" By Hon. Ralph Abercromby , F.R. Met .
Soc. Communicated by R. H. SOOTT , M.A. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The conclusions as to the relation of tropical to extra-tropical cyclones which the author has derived from the researches of which this paper gives an account , may be stated thus :\#151 ; All cyclones have a tendency to assume an oval form ; the longer diameter may lie in any direction , but has a decided tendency to range itself nearly in a line with the direction of propagation .
The centre of the cyclone is almost invariably pressed toward one or other end of the longer diameter , but the displacement may vary during the course of the same depression .
Tropical hurricanes are usually of much smaller dimensions than extra-tropical cyclones ; but the central depression is much steeper , and more pronounced in the former than in the latter .
Tropical cyclones have less tendency to split into two , or to develops secondaries , than those in higher latitudes .
A typhoon which has come from the tropics can combine with a 1887 .
] Tropical and Extra-Tropical Cyclones .
cyclone that has been formed outside the tropics , and form a single new , and perhaps more intense , depression .
No cyclone is an isolated phenomenon ; it is always related to the general distribution of pressure in the latitudes where it is generated .
An area of excessive pressure , with unusually fine weather , precedes most cyclones .
Though the nature and origin of this high barometer is very obscure , the general character of the formation , and the weather associated with it , appear to be the same everywhere .
In all latitudes a cyclone which has been generated at sea appears to have a reluctance to traverse a land area , and usually breaks up when it crosses a coast line .
After the passage of a cyclone in any part of the world , there is a remarkable tendency for another to follow very soon , almost along the same ti'ack .
The velocity of propagation of tropical cyclones is always small ; and the average greatly less than that of European depressions .
There is much less difference in the temperature and humidity before and after a tropical cyclone than in higher latitudes .
The quality of the heat in front is always distressing in every part of the world .
The wind rotates counter-clockwise round every cyclone in the Northern Hemisphere , and everywhere as an ingoing spiral .
The amount of incurvature for the same quadrant may vary during the course of the same cyclone ; but in most tropical hurricanes the incurvature is least in front , and greatest in rear ; whereas in England the greatest incurvature is usually found in the right front .
Some observers think that broadly speaking the incurvature of the wind decreases as we recede from the Equator .
The velocity of the wind always increases as we approach the centre in a tropical cyclone ; whereas in higher latitudes the strongest winds and steepest gradients are often some way from the centre .
In this peculiarity tropical cyclones approximate more to the type of a tornado ; but the author does not think that a cyclone is only a highly developed whirlwind , as there are no transitional forms of rotating air .
The general circulation of a cyclone , as shown by the motion of the clouds , appears to be the same evei'ywhere .
All over the world , unusual coloration of the sky at sunrise and sunset is observed , not only before the barometer has begun to fall at any place , but before the existence of any depression can be traced in the neighbourhood .
Cirrus appears all round the cloud area of a tropical cyclone , instead of only round the front semichcle , as in higher latitudes .
The stripes of cirrus appear to lie more radially from the centre , in the tropics , than tangentially , as indicated by the researches of Ley and Hilde-brandsson in England and Sweden respectively .
140 On Tropical and Extra-Tropical Cyclones .
[ Feb. 24 , jf The general character of the cloud all round the centre is more uniform in than out of the tropics ; but still the clouds in rear are always a little harder than those in front .
Everywhere the rain of a cyclone extends farther in front than in rear .
Cyclone rain has a specific character- , quite different from that of showers or thunderstorms ; and this character is more pronounced in tropical than in extra-tropical cyclones .
Thunder or lightning is rarely observed in the heart of any cyclone , and the absence of electrical discharge is a very bad sign of the weather .
Thunderstorms are , however , abundantly developed on the outskirts of tropical hurricanes .
Squalls are one of the most characteristic features of a tropical cyclone , where they surround the centre on all sides ; whereas in Great Britain , squalls are almost exclusively formed along that portion of the line of the trough which is south of the centre , and in the right rear of the depression .
As , however , we find that the front of a British cyclone tends to form squalls when the intensity is very great , the inference seems justifiable that this feature of tropical hurricanes is simply due to their exceptional intensity .
A patch of blue sky , commonly known as the " bull's-eye , " is almost universal in the tropics , and apparently unknown in higher latitudes .
The author 's researches show that in middle latitudes the formation of a " bull's-eye " does not take place when the motion of translation is rapid ; but as this blue space is not observed in British cyclones when they are moving slowly , it would appear that a certain intensity of rotation is necessary to develope this phenomenon .
The trough phenomena , \#151 ; such as a squall , a sudden shift of wind , and change of cloud character and temperature , just as the barometer turns to rise , even far from the centre\#151 ; which are such a prominent feature in British cyclones , have not been even noticed by many meteorologists in the tropics .
The author , however , shows that there are slight indications of these phenomena everywhere ; and he has collated their existence and intensity with the velocity of propagation of the whole mass of the cyclone .
Every cyclone has a double symmetry .
One set of phenomena , such as the oval shape , the general rotation of the wind , the cloud ring , rain area , and central blue space , are more or less related to a central point .
Another set , such as temperature , humidity , the general character of the clouds , certain shifts of wind , and a particular line of squalls , are more or less related to the front and rear of the line of the trough of a cyclone .
-loti The author 's researches show that the first set are strongly marked in the tropics , * where the circulating energy of the air is great , and the velocity of propagation small ; while the second set are most jg87 .
] A Thermal Telephone Transmitter .
prominent in extra-tropical cyclones , where the rotational energy is moderate , and the translational velocity great .
The first set of characteristics may conveniently he classed together as the rotational ; the second set as the translational phenomena of a cyclone .
Tropical and extra-tropical cyclones are identical in general character , but differ in certain details , due to latitude , surrounding pressure , and to the relative intensity of rotation or translation .
III .
" A Thermal Telephone Transmitter .
" By Prof. George Forbes .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received February 12 , 1837 .
" We have had so much evidence of the sensitiveness of the Bell telephone receiver to the minutest changes of current , that we have ceased to be surprised at any transmitter which responds to the sounds of articulate speech .
But , in the instrument now shown , it was so extremely unlikely that sensible variations of current could be produced with sufficient rapidity , that even now there is perhaps some interest attached to the experiment .
A wooden cylinder was used closed at one end .
A saw cut was made across the diameter of the closed end , making a fine slit .
In the slit was stretched a platinum wire , O'OOl inch diameter and 2 inches long , with its ends connected by copper wires through the primary of an induction coil to a battery sufficiently powerful to make the platinum wire red hot .
On connecting the secondary circuit with a receiving telephone in a distant room and speaking into the wooden cylinder , the words are reproduced and heard in the telephone .
Each vibration of air in the slit cools the platinum wire , diminishing its electrical resistance , and increasing the electric current .
The words transmitted are not quite perfect , the higher harmonics being wanting .
It requires some attention to make out all the words of a sentence .
A brass cylinder instead of the wooden one , and a Wollaston platinum wire of excessive fineness have been used without materially altering the clearness of the articulation .
Platinum foil has hitherto given no sound of the voice .
The slit in the brass instrument is made of glass to prevent the short-circuiting and destruction of the platinum wire .
Wires from one to three inches in length have been used .
The longest ones are best .
No distinct articulation is heard if the wire be not red hot .
The hotter the wire the better is the articulation .
An adjustable slit was tried and the-narrow slit gave the best results .
Mr. Preeee some years ago used the expansion and contraction of a fine platinum wire to act on a diaphragm , and so serve

