]\gt ; OBITUARY .
NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
FELLOWS DECEAS1ED .
PAGES LORD KELVIN iii\mdash ; lxxvi Illustrated by three photogravure portraits by Annan and Sons : the earlier one , .
xxxii , from a daguerreotype , represents Lord Kelvin about 1855 , at the age of thirty ; the middle one , , is from a negative by Fergus ( now J. Stewart ) , of Largs , of date 1877 ; the later one , facing , is from negative by Dickinsons , New Bond Street , W. , taken in 1907 .
WILLIAM THOMSON , LORD KELVIN .
Born in Belfast , Jume 26 , 1824 .
Entered Universit .
of Glasgow , 1834 .
Entered at Peterhouse , Cambridge , October 1841 .
B.A. and Fellow of Peterhouse , 1845 .
Professor of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow , 1846 .
Fellow of the Royal Society , 1851 ; Royal Medallist , 1856 ; Copley Medallist , 1883 .
1arriage to Miss Margaret Crum ( deceased 1870 ) , 1852 .
First Atlantic Cables laid , 1857-58 .
Permanent Atlantic Cables laid , Created a Knight , 1866 ; G.C. , 1896 .
University of Glasgow removed to Gilmore Hill , 1870 .
President of the British Association , Edinburgh , 1871 .
-elected Fellow of Peterhouse , 1872 .
Marriage to Miss Frances Anna Blandy , 1874 .
Elected Foreign Associate Nfember of the Institute of France , 1877 .
Created Knight of the Prussian Order Pour le Jfe'rite , 1884 .
Baltimore Lectures , 1884 ; enlarged edition , 1904 .
President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , 1886-9 ; 1895-1907 .
Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour of France , 189 Created a Peer of Great Britain , as Baron Kelvin of Largs , 1892 .
Jubilee Celebration , , 1896 .
Retired from Glasgow Professorship , 1899 .
Order of Merit , original member , 1902 .
Privy Councillor of Great Britain , 1902 .
Chancellor of the University of Glasgow , 1904 .
Deceased December 17 , buried in Westminster Abbey , December 23 , 1907 .
LL. D. ( Cantab .
) , D.C.L. ( Oxon .
) , Hon. Mem. Inst. Civ .
Engine .
; \mdash ; Foreign Member K. Preuss .
Akad .
, Berlin ; K. Gesell .
Wiss .
, Gottingen ; Soc. Ital .
di Scienze , Milan ; R. Accad . .
Lincei , Bome ; K. Svenska Vetensk .
Akad .
, Stockholm ; Kais .
Akad .
Wiss .
, Vienna ; Foreign Associate of the U. S. National Academy of Sciences , Washington ; etc. , etc. WILLIAM THOMSON , BARON KELVIN OF LARGS .
1824\mdash ; 1907 .
IT would be impossible in an obituary of ordinary length to convey any dea of the many-sided activity by which Lord Kelvin was continually zansforming physical knowledge , through more than two generations , more specially in the earlier period before practical engineering engrossed much of attention in importunate problems which only he could solve .
It is not ntil one tries to arrange his scattered work into the different years and )eriods , that the intensity of his creative force is fully realised , and some otion , is acquired of what a happy strenuous career by must have been in arly days , with new discoveries and new aspects of knowledge crowding in lpon him faster than he could express them to the world .
The general impression left on one 's mind by a connected survey of his vork is overwhelming .
The instinct of and of the civilised vorld , in assigning to him a unique place ong the intellectual forces of the century , was tmistaken .
Other men have been as great in some special .epartment of physical science : no one since Newton\mdash ; hardly even Faraday , yhose limitation was in a sense his strength\mdash ; has exerted such a masterful nfluence over its whole domain .
He might have been a more learned lathematician or an expert chemist ; but he would then probably have been less effective discoverer .
His power lay more in the direct scrutiny of hysical activity , the immediate grasp of connecting principles and relations ; ach subject that he tackled was transformed by direct hints and analogies to bear from profound contemplation of the related domains of nowledge .
In the first half of his life , fundamental results arrived in such olume as often to leave behind all chance of effective development .
In the lidst of such accumulations he became a bad expositor ; it is only by tracing is activity up and down through its mentary published records , and thus btaining a consecutive view of his occupation , that a just idea of the vistas ontinually upon him may be reached .
Nowhere is the supremac ) intellect more impressively illustrated .
One is at times almost tempted wish that the electric of the Atlantic , his popularly best known chievement , as it was one of the most strenuous , had never been undertaken him ; nor even , perhaps , the practical settlement of electric units and [ lstruments and methods to which it led on , thus leaving the ground largely repared for the modern refined electric transformation of general engineering .
the absence of such and absorbing distractions , what might the rorld not have received during the years of his prime in new discoveries and xplorations among the inner processes of nature .
His scientific papers , mostly mere fragments , which overflowed from his , as has been said , into the nearest channel of publication , have been ollected by himself up to the year 1860 , in somewhat desultory manner , in iv Obituary Notices of Fellows four substantial volumes .
In addition there are three volumes of Popula Lectures and Addresses , which are more finished , perhaps equalle in weight and scope only by those of Helmholtz .
His fertility , especially the first dozen years from 1845 to 1856 , seems to be almost without preceden Owing to the want of systematic exposition , much of this progress grasped only imperfectly by contemporaries , and even long afterwards ; the close attention of a few master minds , including Clerk Maxwell and in less degree Helmholtz , and in certain respects that of the school of scientifi electrical engineers that was rising into confident power under his ow inspiration , made up partially for this failure .
In the writings on dynamics and the Iheory of Ayailable Energy , this lack of consecutiv ement has remained until the present time a serious obstacle .
In notice*of the first two volumes of the ' Collected Papers , ' which was cor tributed to ' Nature ' in by Helmholtz , the writer was so engrossed this interesting episode as to devote nearly the whole review to its tion ; but even he has missed recognising that Thomson 's ' dissipation energy ' was in 1855 determined quantitatively just as 1nuch as ' entropy ' was in the same month of the same year , and was , moreover , eve then as wide in scope ( cf. infra ) , making due allowance for the almost absence of numerically exact physico-chemical data on which to develop as it had again become twenty years later in Helmholtz 's own hands in 188 or in those of Willard Gibbs in Probably the severest ordeal to which a mass of occasional writingf evolving an entirely new range of thought , could be subjected , is that republication after the lapse of years .
The fragmentary character of th production of Thomson 's papers , in scattered Journals and naturally suggested ideas of obscurity to the workers who had time only skim the content of separate papers without them as a connecte whole ; but it will probably be ranted to be a most remarkable and irrefragable proof of sureness of construction in a subject so difficult an entangled , that the papers on Thermodynamics , which also founded modern general Theory of Energy , were capable of being reprinted in ful with but slight occasional erasures , and those mainly of unessential characte1 Here one is , of course , leaving out of account the preliminary struggle reconcile the apparently principles of Carnot and Joule , which forms one of the most instructive and fascinating episodes in soientifi( history .
We may be permitted to surmise that it was in the keen insight of early years that his mental habitudes became fixed .
His most characteristic all through life was insatiable thirst for knowledge , unwearie inquiry and investigation at all times , in season and out of season , combine with sympathetic interest and charming deference and encouragement to person , however junior , who was honestly bent on the same pursuits .
It not surprising that , with new and profound views breaking in upon him from ] * ' Nature , ' vol. 32 ( 1885 ) , pp. 25-7 ; Helmholtz 's ' Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 593 .
Lord rown iettled permanent habit t bientific investigation .
Already when he took his degree at Cambridge in the Mathematical Tripos Janwry 1 , it appears that many subjects closely connected with Ondamental advances of the ensuing time were fermenting in his mind .
was only a few months afterwards that he at length , after years of search , liscovered for the scientific world Green 's ' Essay on Electricity ' of 1828 , 1ver since one of the classics of mathematical physics ; he obtained , in fact by ccident , a copy from his previous mathematical tutor W. Hopkins , when le recognised how much of it he had anticipated by his own more intuitive esults when still a boy .
Soon afterwards he went to Paris to learn physical manipulation in the laboratory of Regnault\mdash ; a fact which seems to have been orgotten when he recalled in graceful terms his ations to the French cience of his youth , in an address in connexion with the celebration of the entenary of the Institute of France , of which the echoes vibrated through aris .
He has put on record that , already even at that time , he went about mong t , he Paris booksellers , inquiring for a copy of another work of genius , which he was himself to enrol among the few supreme classics of scientific nowledge , Sadi Carnot 's small tract of 1824 , 'Be'flexions sir la Puissance Wotrice du Feu ; ' he found in 1845 that it was quite forgotten , though they new in the book-shops of the social and political writings of his brother , lippolyte Carnot , ultimately his editor and biographer ( 1878 ) in later years .
WILLIAM THOMSON was eight years of age at the time of his father 's transerence to from Belfast , in 1832 , as Professor of Mathematics .
Two rears later he matriculated in that University , along with his elder brother ames , at the age of ten , which was young even for the Scotland of that eliod ; and recollections have survived of the eager part taken in his father 's lass by the small alert figure hardly out of childish costume .
The date [ ppended to his earliest scientific paper is Frankfort , July 1840 , a year before le went , at the age of seventeen , as a student to Peterhouse , Cambridge , then , sinoe , a college with close Scottish connexions .
It is stated that during he fortnight 's visit to Germany , of which a record is thus attached to the aper , he read Fourier 's Treatise on Heat , of 1822 , with results that are onspicuous in this and in his other earlier papers which will presently be lescribed .
To the end of his life the work of Fourier , which for the first jime rendered masses of rough observational data amenable to the resources analysis , remained for him one of the classics of mathematical literature .
The period of his undergraduate career at Cambridge , extending from October 1841 , to January 1845 , when he graduated as second wrangler in the Mathematical Tripos but obtained the first of the Smith 's Prizes , overflowed with mathematical activity .
The sketch given below of the notes and papers which he contributed to the 'Cambridge Mathematical Journal ' during this time will show how high his were removed vi Notices of Fellows deceased .
from the didactic discipline which occupied , of necessity , the attention of ordinary undergraduate ; the main features of his subsequent mathematica interrogation of nature , the resolve not to lose himself under trains symbolic calculations , but to draw out his analysis step by step in stead .
parallel with the ideas arising from direct interpretation of phenomena , ar already conspicuous .
Much of this habit of mind he must have taken with him from Glasgow , as the following sketch of the career of his father a remarkable one on its own account , will perhaps show .
James Thomson the elder ( 1786-1849 ) supplies one of many cases tha suggest problems as to the nature of the tendencies and faculties by which .
mathematicians are formed , often with very few apparent opportunities fo development .
He was fourth son*of James Thomson , a farmer at more , near Ballynahinch , a village in Co. Down , once of local repute as health-resort or spa ( the house of his birth was in 1898 known as Spamount by his wife Agnes Nesbit .
His early teaching was received solely from hi father .
Observing his bent for scientific pursuits , of which a re-invention the principle of .
is quoted as an example , his father sent him to adjacent school at Ballykine , kept by Samuel Edgar , whose son attaine eminence in the Irish Presbyterian .
Here he soon rose to be assistant .
Wishing to become a minister in the Presbyterian Church , entered University in 1810 , at the age of thirty-four , where studied for several sessions , supporting himself by .
at the school the summer .
In 1814 , two years after graduating M.A. at Glasgow , he wa appointed headmaster of the school of 'arithmetic , book-keeping , geography ' in the Academical Institution , Belfast , newly established public contributions in what was then a small provincial town , yet active both intellectually and politically ; in 1810- he became Professor Mathematics in its collegiate department .
He married , in 1817 , Margaret ( died 1830 ) , daughter of Willian Gardiner , of Glasgow , and had a family of four sons and three whose education he conducted with the utmost care ; of the sons the eldes were James ( 1822-92 ) and William ( 1824-1907 ) .
He published numerous text-books which were deservedly very suc cessful:\mdash ; ' Arithmetic , ' 1819 , which , having been adopted by the Iris ] Education Department , has passed through nearly a hundred editions ' Trigonometry , Plane and Spherical ' ; 'Modern Geography , 1827 ' Differential and Integral Calculus , ' 1831 ; 'Euclid , ' with Appendix of Geometry , 1834 ; ] ebrab , ' 1844 .
On turning over the of some these books again , the opinion is confirmed that in elegance and and choice of material , and of the classical mathematiciaus , the ) stand quite in the front rank of the text-books of that or any period .
University relations of their author seem , however , to have been solely with Glasgow , without direct contact either with , where modern * These facts are taken largely from an article signed T. H. in the ' Dictionary ol Natiollal Biography .
' viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
to the stream function for flux symmetrical around an axis , in which , as he remarks the Reprint , he had been anticipated by Stokes in 1842 .
He returns to the original problem in November 1844 , in connexion with a recent memoir by Lame , which had iven a complete solution , and also a note by Bertrand .
A concise independent demonstration of Dupin 's famous cognate theorem , that a triple system of mutually orthogonal surfaces intersect along their lines of curvature , forms the subject of another note .
About the same time he was already paying attention to a subject which , in its geodetic application , absorbed him much in later years , the theory of the steady configurations of revolving masses of hornogeneous fluid .
In November 1844 , he publishes a proof of the result\mdash ; obtained by the brief , direct , geometrical mode of argument in which he always that , provided the free surface of the fluid be an ellipsoid , whether it be one of Maclaurin 's pair or that of Jacobi , the force of gravity must vary inversely as the distance of the tangent plane from the centre of the surface .
At the very time of his Mathematical Tripos and Smith 's Pnze Examinations , at Cambridge , he was preparing for press extensive papers on the Reduction of the General Equaticn of Surfaces of the Second Order and on the Lines of Curvature of such surfaces ( Reprint , pp. 55-71 ) .
It is hardly matter of wonder that the result of all this scientific activity of the highest order was that , in the Mathematical Tripos at the beginning of 1845 , he only attained to the second place in the list .
Two , at any rate , of the four examiners were men of mark , Robert Leslie Ellis and Harvey Goodwin .
Inspection of the papers set by them , which were , on the whole , equal to their reputation , does not lend probability to the tade that some theorems taken from Thomson 's published work were among the questions proposed , which , however , their author found himself unable to answer , his rival ( Stephen Parkinson , afterwards D.D. , F.R.S. , and Tutor of St. John 's did not allow them to escape him .
* That the order of the result did not arise in any way from lack of appreciation is in accordance with the contemporary statement , that the examiners had given it out that they did not consider themselves worthy even to .
mend Thomson 's pens .
In the award of the Smith 's Prizes immediately following , made by the mathematical professors under less restricted conditions , there could thus have been no room for so equivocal a result .
We now return , September 1841 , when , at the of seventeen , Another form of the tale is that in the 's Prize Examination two of the candidates answered a question in such striking and identicaI terms that investigation was made ; when it lurned out that the answers were taken from Thomson 's pathbreaking paper of four years previously , next to be referred to , which had appeared under his customary signature P. Q. R. As a fact , Earnshaw did set a question for a development of the general anaIogy between the theory of attractions and the conduction of heat .
Professor S. P. Thompson relates that , in answer to a question , Lord Kelvin recently told him that deserved his defeat , owing to 'bad generalship ' in spending too much time over problems that would not come out .
: Lord Kelvin .
ix month before he entered at Peterhouse , he sent to the ' Mathematical Journal ' a paper\ldquo ; On the Uniform Motion of Heat in Homogeneous Solid Bodies , and its connexion with the Mathematical Theory of Electricity doubtless another result of his study of Fourier 's treatise mentioned above .
By the time it was published , under the signature P. Q. R. , in February 1842 , he was able to prefix a note stating that , in the mathematical theorems reached , he had been largely anticipated by the great French mathematician Chasles .
A further note to the reprint in ' Phil. Mag 1854 , relates the history of one of his great discoveries , this time a personal one .
He there adds to his anticipators the name of Gauss , whose treatment of the subject had ' appeared shortly after Chasles ' enunciations : and after all he found that these theorems had been discovered and published in the most complete and general manner , with rich applications to the theories of electricity and magnetism , more than ten years previously , by Green .
It was not until early in 1845 that the author , after having inquired for it in vain for several years , in consequence of an obscure allusion to it in one of Murphy 's papers , was fortunate enough to meet with a copy of the remarkable paper ( ' An Essay on the Application of Mathematical Analysis to the Theories of Electricity and Magnetism , ' by George Green , Nottingham , 1828 ) , in which this great advance in physical mathematics was first made .
It is worth remarking that , referring to Green as the originator of the term , Murphy gives a mistaken definition of 'potential .
' It appears highly probable that he may never have had access to Green 's ' Essay ' at all , and that this is the explanation of the fact ( of which any other explanation is scarcely conceivable ) , that in his treatise on electricity ( Murphy 's ' Electricity , ' Cambridge , 1833 ) , he makes no allusion whatever to Green 's discoveries , and gives a theory in no respect pushed beyond what had been done by Poisson .
All the general theorems on attraction which Green , and the other writers referred to , demonstrated by various purely mathematical processes , are seen as axiomatic truths in approaching the subject by the way laid down in the paper which is now republished .
The analogy with the conduction of heat , on which these views are founded , has not , so far as the author is aware , been noticed by any other writer The analysis in the part of this very remarkable paper in which he had been anticipated by Chasles and Gauss , retains its place almost unaltered in the text-books , to this day , as the classical and most compact method of treating such subjects as the attraction of ellisoidq and ellipsoidal shells ; * but more remarkable from a youth at the age of seventeen is the analogy , above referred to , between electric force and thelmal flux , fundamentally illuminating to both , and pregnant with the great advances then impending in physical science .
The story of Thomson 's discovery of George Green may now be completed from a footnote in the paper of 1845 .
' I should add that it was not till the beginning of the present year ( 1840 ) that I succeeded in meeting with *Cf .
, for instance , Thomson and Tait 's ' Not .
Phil. ' Ob ituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Green 's Essay .
The allusion made to his name with reference to the word ' potential ' ( ' Mathematical Journal , ' vol. iii , p. 190 ) was taken from a memoir of Murphy 's , 'On definite Integrals with Physical Applications , ' in the ' Cambridge Transactions , ' where a mistaken definition of that term as used by Green is given In he sent Green 's ' Essay ' to be reprinted in ' Crelle 's Journal , ' vol. 39 , with a prefatory notice , and it thenceforth assumed its place on the Continent as a classic : recently , in reply to inquiries about Green 's raphy , he wondered why he had reprinted it in his own ' Cambridge Journal .
' Early scientific impressions seem to have persisted with Thomson throughout life .
To the end the names of Fourier and Green , whose fundamental importance he had been instrumental in elucidating in own youthful work , remained for him the very greatest in the scientific firmament .
We now pass on to 1845 ; at the beginning of this year he ha6 taken his degree , and then appeared before the public in his own name the Editor of the 'Journal .
' He planned a series of papers " " On Mathematical Theory of Electricity in Equilibrium the first of which appeared in November 1845 , " " On the Elementary Laws of Statica .
Electricity The paper had been published in an earlier form in French Liouville 's 'Journal de Mathematiques ' about the middle of the year .
II the course of it he already records incidentally the solution of the problem of the mutual influence of two charged spheres by his method of successiv point-images .
Yet the most part of it is the end , where applies himself to the elucidation of Faraday 's physical views on electrit induction .
He points out that Faraday 's idea of flux of induction precisely the analogy of electric force with flux of heat which he hac developed in his earliest paper of 1841 , the flow of heat obviously conditioned , in accordance with Faraday 's phrase , by the action of contiguous particles .
He now remarks that Faraday 's idea of polarisation of the particles of the dielectric medium is the exact of Poisson'f theory of induced netism , and edition by on Poisson 's principles he obtains the explanation of dielectri influence which holds good unchanged in electron-theory to this has it ever been better or more succinctly expressed .
Curiously , though he expressly states that the effect becomes smaller as the molecules fewer , yet his words seem to imply acceptance of the failure of efforts with gases as evidence that the free molecules of a gaseous dielectric not electrically polarisable .
In a note to the 'Phi ! .
' Reprint of 1854 , Thomson points out that this of for heat is the preci se equivalent of Faraday 's ' conducting power of a medium for lines of force\ldquo ; \mdash ; a point of view which , however , was not reached by Faraday * The same theory of molecular polarisation was developed independently by Mossotti in the year following , 'Mem .
della Soc. Italiana , ' vol. 24 , as Thomson remarks ; it is often connected with his name .
of his experimental synthesis of the relations and properties of lines of magnetic force in iron and other highly magnetic media .
Earlier , in ' Series 11 , of date November 1837 , where the idea of curved lines of electrostatic induction is reached , it was the conception of tension along the lines and sideway pressure that had guided Faraday 's thought .
The train of mathematical development of the ideas of Faraday , which was subsequently in Maxwell 's hands to be moulded into our present theory of the phenomena of electricity and radiation , was begun in a short note which appeared early in 1847.* Referring to the concluding paragraphs of the Eleventh Series of Faraday 's 'Besearches ' ( November 1837 ) , with their dominant idea of induction along curved lines of force , supposed to be transmitted essentially through interaction of contiguous particles , he states that this theory of Electrostatical Induction " " suggests the idea that thele may be a problem in the theory elastic solids corresponding to every problem connected with the distribution of electricity on conductors , or with the forces of attraction and repulsion exercised by electrified bodies .
The clue to a similar representation of magnetic and galvanic forces is afforded by Mr. day 's recent discovery of the affection with reference to polarised light of tra1qarent .
solids subjected to magnetic or electromagnetic forces Referring to Stokes ' classical analysis of the Equilibrium of Elastic Bodies which had recently been published ( 1845 ) , he points out that the states of strain that can persist freely in the interior of homogeneous elastic matter , under the appropriate surface forces and no internal ones , are those in which the displacement satisfies the relation that is a perfect differential , say .
He then restricts the discussion to the case of a medium incapable of compression .
In the special case of this relation , coincides with the electric force due to unit charge at the origin , here represented ( e.g. ) by a small vesicle in the medium containing gas which exerts pressure in all directions .
fn the next special case . .
'Cambridge and Dublin Math. Journal , ' vol. 2 ; 'Math .
) Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , ; dated from Glasgow College , November 28 , 1846 .
There will donbtless alwa be difference of opinion regarding the scope and definiteness of Faraday 's idea of lines of force , which he used so effectively as a basis of geometrical reasoning about physical forces .
That the elastic interaction here enunciated is not inconsistent with Faraday 's own view appears from the following extract ( ' No. 1304):\mdash ; " " I have used the lin of inductive force and curved lines of force in a general sense only , just as we speak of the lines of magnetic force .
The lines are imaginary , and the force in any part of them is the resultant of compound forces , every molecule being related to every other molecule in all directions by the tension and reaction of those which are contiguous In later magnetic work ( 1850 ) the language , however , suggests that the lines are to him more than mathematical representations .
Xll Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the vector occurring on the left thus represents the magnetic force of magnetic bipole situated at the origin and lying in the direction it is expressed as the curl of the previous electric force , that is , as twicc the differential rotational displacement at the point considered .
Finally , if , with the related expressions for and , the curl of now represents the magnetic force due to a unil current-element situated at the along direction .
In these statements it is implied ( already in 1847 ) that magnetic force related to electric force as the differential rotation or curl of latter .
If he had probed the matter only a little further , he would have beer forced to recognise , on Faraday 's principles , that it is the time-gradient of magnetic force that is so related ; and the Maxwellian theory of the aethe ] might have opened up to his view .
But he winds up the brief and hurried notc characteristically as follows:\mdash ; " " I should exceed my present limits were I tc enter into a special examination of the states of a solid body representing various problems in electricity , netism , and galvanism , which must there .
fore be reserved for a future paper .
lasgow College , November 28 , 1846 The future paper seems never to have arrived , but the present one was enough to give a lead to Maxwell 's earliest studies .
* It was in the previous year , November 1845 , that Faraday communicated to the Royal Society what Lord Rayleigh has described- as one of the finest of his discoveries , the detection of a relation connecting netism and light , in the circumstance that the plane of polarisation of light passing through matter is rotated by a magnetic field .
One may safely assume that this result must have been deeply pondered over by Thomson : we are justified by the quotation , , in ascribing to its influence the idea underlying and this note , that if electric force is represented by displacement of the particles of a medium the netic force is related to the resulting rotation ( in Stokes ' sense ) of the differential element of volume .
After this great refusal to proceed , the subject of the underlying mechanism of electromagnetic phenomena goes out of sight for eleven years , until This is a convenient place to refer to a note , of the end of the same year , ending his solution ( iii ) above to elastic solids not incompressible : displacement of type given by \mdash ; represents the result of a force applied to an infinitely extended solid in the direction at the of co-ordinates .
He points out that general solutions may be developed by oombining such ' sources of strain\ldquo ; as he had combined * See in fact the reference to it in his first memoir ' On Faraday 's Lines of Force\ldquo ; ( 1856 ) , in Maxwell 's ScieIltific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 188 ; and repeatedly in the mechanical theory in " " Physical Lines of Force ' Phil. Mag. ' 1861-2 .
The future paper did arrive in 1889 , having been then written for ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 3 ; cf. infra , .
lxvii .
and Dublin Math. Journa vol. 3 , p. 87 .
Hitherto we have recounted work on the more physical side of electrical .
theory .
Thomson 's early home training in Euclidean geometry shone con .
spicuously in his investigations on the distribution of electricity on spherical conductors .
The beautiful and now familiar idea of electrical images was first published in Liouville 's 'Journal des Mathematiques , ' in extracts from three letters to the editor , in October 1845 , and in June 1846 .
The first of these extracts*recalls conversations with Liouville on this subject in Paris , in 1845 , whither Thomson had gone soon after taking his degree , in order to gain physical experience in 's laboratory .
The second letter consists mainly of an exposition of the system of orthogonal co-ordinates in space , which is suitable for treating the problem of two spheres .
A third letter of September 1846 , states the result for the distribution of electricity on a thin spherical bowl : the analysis which led to it did not see the light unti11869 , when it was published , with full numerical tables to illustrate electrostatic , in ' Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' pp. 178-191 .
The problem of the mutual influence of two electrified spheres was treated in full by the method of successive images , with numerical results calculated for a projected absolute electrometer on principle , ' Phil. ' 1853 , and ' Electrostatics and netism , ' pp. 87-97 .
This method had been described to the British Association at Cambridge as early as 1845 .
The results to the mutual attraction of two equal spheres had been published in ' .
and Dublin Math. Journal ' the same year : it appears that the main parts of the investigation were communieated to Liouville by letter in 1849 .
Already in he deduced the force of attraction from the energy of the distribution , or " " mechanical value as he called this function whose minimum property had attracted his attention as utilised in Gauss ' memoir of 1839 ; the function appeared for the first time as energy in Helmholtz 's ' der Kraft ' in 1847 , as he learned later .
.His instant absorption of the contents of Green 's 'Essay , ' and the rapid expansion of the method of , are jointly illustrated by a note of October 1845 ( when he was back in Peterhouse from Paris ) , in the ' Cambrid , and Dublin Math. Journal , ' in which he briefly indicates the application of this method to the determination of the induced magnetisation in a plate of soft iron , a problem of which the solution had been one of Green 's analytical tours de force .
As is now well known , the problem for an infinite mass of iron with a plane face is solved by a single image ; and he passes from this to a solution for a plate , which he proves to be identical with Green 's , by successive reflexions .
In Liouville 's ' Journal , ' in 1847 , reprinted in part in 'Cambridge and Dublin * Reprint , ' Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' p. 144 .
xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows Math. Journal ' early in 1848 , he essays to demonstrate both the determinacy and the existence of the solution of the general differential equation of flux , thermal or electric , subject to appropriate conditions over a boundary .
The method , reprinted in homson and Tait 's 'Nat .
Phil is to invent a volume integral of an essentially positive function , for which the characteristic equation of the flux is the condition of a stationary value as determined by the calculus of variations .
As regards proof of the existence of a solution satisfying the conditions , this argument , employed also by Riemann in 1851 , afterwards gave way , so far as the requirements of abstract analysis are concerned , and became discredited generally , nrough the destructive criticism of Weierstrass .
It has doubtless been to believers in the policy of encouraging physical intuition as a mathematical resource , to learn that a recent improvement by Hilbert seems to have removed the difficulties .
Various less important tical contributions to the and Dublin Math. Journal ' need not be mentioned .
The papers that have now been passed under review occupy 191 pages in the reprint on ' Electrostatics and netism , ' and the first 112 pages of vol. 1 of the ' Mathematical and Physical Papers .
' The activity of Thomson in connexion with the early British mathematical journals seems to demand special record .
It has been seen that , beginning at severlteen years of age , he was an active supporter during his undergraduate days of the oriinal idge Math. Journal .
' Whatever was the cause , his contributions were all anonymous , being usually signed ' P. but in one case ' N. N. ' After he took his degree this journal gave place to the ' Cambridge and Dublin .
Math. Journal , ' and his first paper , of date October 14 , 1845 , appears under his name as " " W. Thomson , B.A. , Fellow of St. Peter 's College while the of the first volume , of date 1846 , gives his name as sole editor , with an additional description as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of .
The last volume of the previous series had appeared with the name of .
L. Ellis as editor .
Thomson 's connexion with the 'Journal ' continued until vol. 8 , 1853 ; in this volume he was associated with N. M. rers ; the last volume , 9 , was brought out , in , by Ferrers alone .
In 1857 the ' Quarterly Journal of Math. ' began its course , in order , as the editors expressed it , to enable mathematicians to take their part in the rapid circulation and interchange of ideas .
Its activity , which still continues , was then under the direction of J. J. Sylvester and N. M. Ferrers , assisted by G. G. Stokes , A. Cayley , and C. Hermit .
Ihough the physical interest subsequently waned , the first number contains ( pp. 57-77 ) a paper by W. Thomson , dated March 10 , 1855 , of fundamental importance in the then nascent general theory of , as will appear later .
The fact that the on of the ' Journal ' for the eight years above described , with the editor so far from Cambridge as , was a troublesome task , appears frequently in Thomson 's correspondence with Stokes , in which he is often urging the necessity of getting material to enal ) an .
position as a classic , through their contributions in the domain of Mathematical Physics .
In particular they planned ajoint series of articles entitled " " Notes on Hydrodynamics for didactic purposes , which assisted conspicuously towards crystallising that subject into a formal science .
The editor also pressed into the service his Scottish physical friends , such as Macquorn Rankine , and his brother James Thomson , who both made contributions of fundamental value\mdash ; Rankine the general theory of elasticity , including MacCullagh 's rotational elasticity of the aether which he was the first to formulate in an objective way , while James Thomson treated , in most original manner , of the laws of spiral springs , and the influence of internal strain of the of materials , as well as the lowering of the freezing-point by pressure ; and Dublin , in the persons of W. B. Hamilton , G. Salmon , S. , B. Townsend , and others , contri- buted her share .
The last of the notes on hydrodynamics , of February contains his theorem that the motion of a fluid mass , arising from given movement impressed.on its boundary , is the one involving the least possible energy : proposition which , when extended in 1863 to any dynamical system whatever , set in motion impulsively by imparting specified velocities , became fundamental in general dynamics under the name of Thomson 's theorem .
As the contributions of Thomson and his fi.iends , the 'Journal ' fulfilled the highest degree the main function of such a publication ; was concise and pointed , and adapted to excite the interest of readers who were not specialists : there were few .
The reference in the admirable prefatory remarks introducing its successor , the ' Quarterly Journal , ' and expressing the editors ' sense of the heavy duties and responsibilities which it imposed , can easily be appreciated .
" " All who are interested in the .
cause of Mathematical Science are aware of the great and beneficial influence which has been brought to bear upon the study of Mathematics in this country by the publication of the 'Cambridge , ' and subsequently of the ' Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journals , ' which , if they cannot strictly be said to have created the present school of English mathematicians , may fairly claim to have provided the arena in which they have been able to measure their strength and give evidence of their capabilities .
Causes upon the nature of which it is not necessary here to insist , having recently led to the discontinuance of the latter of these Journals , it became a question and a subject of anxiety among several of its former contributors and supporters how its place was to be supplied In November 1845 , Faraday was able to communicate to the Royal Society the successful issue of -continued efforts to find a connexion between ' Matb .
and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 107 .
'Thomson and Tait , ' S312 .
xvi Obituary Notices of deceased .
light and electricity .
This was the brilliant detection of the lotation of the plane of polarisation of crht passing material bodies by a magnetic field , which formed the beginning of a fresh series of discoveries relating to the netic state in all kinds of matter ; and he pointed out its distinction from the intrinsic rotation produced ( e.g. ) by passage through quartz or sugar solution .
Thomson , in May probed the underlying dynamical meaning of this difference .
The result is emphasised , that the existence of structural rotation is inconsistent with complete homogeneity of the transmitting medium , and points to its containing molecular elements , which must be of essentially spiral quality , due either to spiral crystalline arrangement of non-spiral molecules as in quartz , or to molecules each structurally spiral as .
in active liquids .
The introductory paragraphs , which were fateful in the history of electrical science , are here quoted .
Maxwell , in his 'Treatise ' ( 1872 , S831 ) , reproduces the second paragraph as an " " important remark\ldquo ; or argument on which the whole subject of the relation of light to magnetism must be based .
" " The elastic reaction of a homogeneously strained solid has a character essentially devoid of all helicoidal and of all dipolar asymmetry .
Hence the .
rotation of the plane of polarisation of light passing through bodies which either intrinsically possess the helicoidal property ( syrup , oil of turpentine , quartz crystals , etc or have the magnetic property induced in them , must be due to elastic reactions dependent on the heterogeneousness of the strain through the space of a wave , or to some heterogeneousness of the luminous dependent on a eneousness of parts of the matter of lineal dimensions not nitely small in comparison with the wave-length .
An infinitely eneous sulid could.not possess either of those properties if the stress at any point of it was influenced only by parts of the body touching it ; but if the stress at one point is directly influenced by the strain in parts at distances from it finite in comparison with the wave-length , the helicoidal property might exist , and the rotation of the plane of such as is observed in many liquids and in quartz cryscals , could be explained as a direct dynamical consequence of the statical elastic reaction called into play by such a strain as exists in a wave of light .
It may , however , be considered more probable that the matter of transparent bodies is really eneous from one part to another of lineal dimensions not infinitely small in comparison with a wave-lengh , than that it is .
infinitely eneous and has the property of exerting finite direct ' molecular ' force at distances comparable with the wave-length , and it is certain that any spiral eneousness of a vibrating medium if either -handed or left-handed spirals predominate , cause a finite 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 8 , pp. 150-8 ; 'Baltimore Lectures , ' Appendix F. ' As would be were there different sets of vibrating particles , or were Rankine 's important hypothesis true , that the vibrations of luminiferous particles are directly affected by pressure of a surrounding medium in virtue of its inertia Lord Kelvin .
xvii rotation of the plane of polarisation of all waves of which lengths are not infinitely great multiples of the steps of the structural spirals .
Thus a liquid filled homogeneously with spiral fibres , or a solid with spiral passages through it of steps not less than the forty-millionth of an inch , or a ystal with a right-handed or a left-handed geometrica ] arrangement of parts of some such lineal dimensions as the forty-millionth of an inch , might be certainly expected to cause either a -handed or a left-handed rotation of ordinary light ( the wave-length being 1/ 40000 of an inch for homogeneous yellow ) .
" " But the magnetic influence on light discovered by Faraday depends on the direction of motion of moving particles .
For instance , in a medium possessing it , particles in a straight line parallel to the lines of magnetic force , displaced to a helix round this line as axis , and then projected tangentially with such velocities as to describe circles , have different velocities according as their motions are round in one direction ( the same as the nominal direction of the galvanic current in the magnetising coil ) , or in the contrary direction .
But the elastic reaction of the medium must be the same for.the same displacements , whatever be the velocities and direction of the particles ; that is to say , the forces which are balanced by centrifugal force of the circular motions are equal , while the luminiferous motions are unequal .
The absolute circular motions being , therefore , either equal or such as transmit equal centrifugal forces to the particles initially considered , it follows that the luminiferous motions are only components of the whole motion , and that a less lniferous component in one direction , compounded with a motion existing in the medium when transmitting no light , gives an equal resultant to that of a greater luminiferous motion in the contrary direction compounded with the same non-luminous motion .
I think it is not only impossible to conceive any other than this dynamical explana- tion of the fact that circularly polarised light transmitted through magnetised glass parallel to the lines of magnetising force , with the same quality , righthanded always , or left-handed always , is propagated at different rates according as its course is in the direction or is contrary to the direction in which a north magnetic pole is drawn , but I believe it can be demonstrated that no other explanation of that fact is possible .
Hence it appears that Faraday 's optical discovery affords a demonstration of the reality of Ampere 's explanation of the ultimate nature of magnetism , and gives a definition of magnetisation in the dynamical theory of heat .
The introduction of the principle of moments of momenta ( the conservation of areas ' ) into the mechanical treatment of Mr. Rankine 's hypothesis of 'molecular vortices , ' appears to indicate a line perpendicular to the plane of resultant rotatory momentum ( ' the invariable plane ' ) of the thermal motions as the magnetic axis of a magnetised body , and suggests the resultant moment of momenta of these motions as the definite measure of the 'magnetic moment .
' The explanation of all phenomena of electromagnetic attraction or repulsion , and of electromagnetic induction , is to be looked for simply in the inertia and VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
pressure of the matter of which the motions constitute heat .
Whether this matter is or is not electricity , whether it is a continuous fluid interpermeating the spaces between molecular nuclei , or is itself molecularly grouped , or whether all matter is continuous , and molecular heterogeneousness consists in finite vortical or other relative motions of contignous parts of a body , it is impossible to decide , and , perhaps , in vain to speculate , in the present state of science .
" " I append the solution of a dynamical problem for the sake of the illustrations it suggests for the two kinds of effect on the plane of polarisation referred to above After some dynamical gyrostatic effects of cognate character have been discussed by mathematical analysis , the paper ends by a paragraph as follows:\mdash ; " " From these illustrations it is easy to see , in an infinite variety of ways , how to make structures , homogeneous when considered on a large enough scale , which ( 1 ) with certain rotatory motions of component parts having , in portions large enough to be sensibly homogeneous , resultant axes of momenta arranged like lines of magnetic force , shall have the dynamicat property by which the optical phenomena of bodies in the magnetic field are with spiral arrangements of component parts , having axes all ranged parallel to a fixed line , shall the axial rotatory property corresponding to ihat of quartz .
and ( 3 ) with spiral arrangements of component groups , axes totally , shall have the isotropic rotatory prop possessed by of tartaric acid , by of turpentin and mcmy other liquids He returns incidentally to the subject , *insisting that " " electrodynamic capacity\ldquo ; is " " identical in meaning with the ' simple mass-equivalent ' in the motion of Attwood 's machine as ordinarily treated This " " it seems qnite certain must be owing to true inertia of motions accompanying the rent , chiefly rotatory , with axes with the lines of magnetic force in the iron , air , or other matter in the neighbourhood of the conductor , and continuing so long as the culrent is kept unchanged It may be recalled that it was in 1858 the dynamical theory of vortex motion in fluids was created by the great memoir of Helmholtr .
( ' Crelle 's Journal , ' ) .
Maxwell , in his ' Treatise , ' S822 , improving upon a section in his memoir " " On Physical Lines of Force of 1862 , used all the data available to connect the propagation of light with the magnetism , on the basis that the netic force is a vortical molecular phenomenon in the medium which combines in a scalar manner with the vortical quality in the motion that constitutes radiation , as regards the energy function which determines the lynamics , and also that the netic field alters by the light-motion as vortices in fluid would do .
He finds that this hypothesis is the same thing , as regards continuous propagation , as a scalar connexion between the motion of the medium and the total electric current which is the equivalent of the magnetism .
The more recent observations , however , connect the optical effect ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 11 , 1861 , footnotes p. 273 .
At the beginning of the same year 1856 , near the end of the twenty-fou.rth year of his , and two years after taking his degree at Cambridge , James Clerk Maxwell communicated to the Cambridge Philosophical Society his earliest electrical memoir , " " On Faraday 's Lines of Force His genius was as systematic as Thomson 's was desultory .
This paper , and the subsequent one " " On Physical Lines of Force in the 'Philosophical Magazine ' for 1861 , were as much an exposition of Thomson 's interpretations as the former was also of Faraday 's own views .
A study of the eneral sketches prefixed to these papers would be , in fact , one of the best ways of appreciating the extent of Thomson 's activity in electrical theory up to that date .
Nothing that Maxwell wrote is more illuminating than these preliminary essays o11 the scope of scientific explanation , and the enforcement , from the examples of Faraday and Thomson , of ctive superiority of raphic and plastic analogical reasoning over self-centred abstract calculations .
When he passes on to try to fit together the various partial aspects of the electrical theory into a single connected scheme , the lucidity of the previous general sketch deserts him , as might be expected from the difficulty of the enterpnse ; though the defect is possibly in part due to over-elaboration of the analytical apparatus , which could have been better grasped as a whole if more coYldensed .
The same fault attaches in a greater degree to the treatise on 'Electricity and Magnetism , ' made up as it seems of a series of partial preliminary sketches , intended to be welded ultimately into a systematic treatise , but which he appears to have been induced to throw into the press on his coming to Cambridge in 1871 , in order to supply the urgent need of some accessible exposition of the new physical views for the use of students .
A remark of his has been handed down which points in this direction\mdash ; to the effect that the aim of his book was not to finally expound the theory for the world , but to educate himself by the presentation of a view of the stage he had reached .
This would , at any rate , account for the disjointed character of the ' Treatise , ' and the sudden transitions in the points of view between different chapters , which have been found to be so ] and have naturally induced remonstrance from readers unacquainted with the evolution of the subject .
Instead of tying himself down to a definite ordered exposition , with all material which cannot be fitted into it rejected as irrelevant or unprofitable , the aim is purposely to keep the subject open , to record all the considerations and lines of argument that have a chance of provin useful or suggestive for the ultimate unification .
Much misunderstanding has thereby been caused both in this country and abroad , and many complaints of the absence of logical cohesion ; not a few reconstructions have been offered by together excerpts so as to make one consecutive story , in the gaps according to predilection , but ignoring the remaining aspects as mere disturbances of the of explanation .
And for didactic purposes this has xx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
doubtless been a help ; though we may agree with Boltzmann that it could hardly be done better than Maxwell did it himself , in the introductory expositions prefixed to his earlier papers ; or , later , in an appendix to his memoir ( ' Phil. Trans 1868 ) on the ratio of the electric units , where he sets forth a skeleton of the theory of light , of the approved modern heuristic pattern , in order to meet a demand for a concise conspectus of its content .
It is noteworthy that Maxwell 's general argument there for the existence of a transmitting medium is precisely that , without support from an aether , the forces between electric bodies cannot be arranged , on any existing theory , so as to form a balance , as either momentum or energy\mdash ; that without it oeaction does not balance action and the energy is not conserved .
In the final instalment of the paper " " On Physical Lines of Force ' Phil. Mag February 1862 , Maxwell emphasises Thomson 's demonstration , quoted above , that ulagnetism involves essentially the rotational motion of something around its lines of force .
He probes and developes tentatively a theory of the magnetic force as due to the centrifugal force of vortices associated with the molecules of matter , assuming that these vortices " " consist of the same matter the vibrations of which constitute light But directly afterwards* he seems almost to repent of this unnecessary restriction , under the fascination of Weber 's of electric particles:\mdash ; " " I am inclined to believe that iron differs from other bstances in the manner of its tction as well as in the intensity of its magnetism ; and I think this behaviour may be explained on our hypothesis of molecular vortices , by supposing that the particles of the itself are set in rotation by the tangential motion of the vortices , in an opposite direction to their own .
These large heavy particles would thus be revolvin exactly as we have supposed the infinitely small particles constituting electricity to revolve , but without being free like them to change their place and form currents Knowledge has crystallised since this remarkable was written : the " " infinitely small particles constituting electricity\ldquo ; have undergone a natural evolution from Weber 's attracting particles into the electrons appropriate to Maxwell 's theory : it is their rotation in the molecule that conditio1ls the magnetic phenomena : and Maxwell 's notion of a molecular gregate in iron rotating as a whole may yet be a clue to the explanation of netics .
His analytical development , however , is difficult to interpret on either view .
In the ' Dynamical Theory ' Phil. Trans 1864 , he harks back ( S 8 ) to the idea of rotation of the aether : the time was not yet ripe for the electrons as the originators of the disturbances whose propagation he studied so closely .
It seems that it was not until 1864 that Maxwell had the electric theory of } , these studies in the Faraday magneto-optic relation , even as reproduced in modified form in the ' Treatise , ' being purely tentative and provocative of the deeper plumge .
Thus , writing in 1864 , ' the conception of the of transverse magnetic disturbances to the exclusion of normal ones is distinctly set forth by Professor Faraday in his ' Thoughts on 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 507 .
Lord Kelvin .
Ray ' 'Phil .
Mag 1864 .
The electromagnetic theory of light , as proposed by him , is the same in substance as that which I have begun to develope in this paper , except that in 1846 there were no data to calculate the velocity of propagation.\ldquo ; * Maxwell did not return to the subject , but left the application to the laws of optical reflexion and dispersion to be developed by others , Helmholtz , FitzGerald , etc. ; some of the reasons why he did not consider the detailed optical theory for material bodies to be quite ripe for treatment appear from his correspondence with Stokes , recently publishedf This is the suitable place to insert a summing up of his own ideas on this subject by Thomson , made just before Maxwell began his attack on the physical side of the problem of the aether .
It forms the peroration to an eloquent discourse on atmospheric electricity , delivered at the Royal Institution , May 18 , 1860 .
" " The speaker could not conclude without guarding himself against any imputation of having assumed the existence of two electric fluids or , because he had frequently spoken of the vitreous and resinous electricities .
Dufay 's very important discovery of two modes or qualities of electrification led his followers too readily to admit his supposition of two distinct electric fluids .
Franklin , Bpinus , and Cavendish , with a hypothesis of one electric fluid , opened the way for ajuster appreciation of the of nature in electric phenomena .
Beccaria , with his 'electric atmospheres , ' somewhat vaguely struggled to see deeper into the working of electric force , but his views found little acceptance , and scarcely suggested inquiry or even meditation .
The eighteenth century made a school of science for itself , in which , for the not unnatural dogma of the earlier schoolmen , ' matter cannot act where it is not , ' was substituted the most fantastic of paradoxes , contact does not .
Boscovich 's theory was the consummation of the eighteenth century school of physical science .
This strange idea took deep root , and from it grew up a barren tree , exhausting the soil and overshadowing the whole field of molecular investigation , on which so much unavailing labour was spent by the great mathematicians of the early part of our nineteenth century .
S If Boscovich 's theory no long er cumbers the ground , it is because one true philosopher required more light for tracing lines of electric force .
" " Mr. Faraday 's investigation of electrostatic induction influences now every department of physical speculation , and constitutes an era in science .
If we can no longer regard electric and magnetic fluids attracting or repelling at a distance as ealities , we may now also contemplate as a of the past that belief in aroms and in vacuum , against which Leibnitz so earnestly contended in his memorable correspondence with Dr. Samuel Clarke .
'Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field , ' October , 1864 , S20 .
'Sir G. G. Stokes , Memoir and Scientific Correspondence , ' vol. 2 , pp. 1-45 .
'Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' p. 223 , SS288-291 .
S In later years Lord Kelvin would have partially withdrawn this , finding it stil ] necessary to form hypotheses about the field of force of an atom in the absence of knowledge of what the atom itself intrinsically consists of .
Cf .
' Baltimore Lectures , 2 ed. , 1904 .
xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
" " We now look on space as full .
We that light is propagated like sound through pressure and motion .
We know that there is no substance of caloric , \mdash ; that inscrutably minute motions cause the expansion which the thermometer marks , and stimulate our sensation of heat , \mdash ; that fire is not laid up in coal more than in this Leyden phial , or this weight , there is potential fire in each .
If electric force depends on a refidual surfacaction , a resultant of an inner tension experienced by the insulating medium , we can conceive that electricity itself is to be understood as not an accident , but an essence of matter .
Whatever electricity is , it seems quite certain that electricity in motion Is heat ; that a certain alignment of axes of revolution in this motion is ) agnetism .
Faraday 's magneto-optic experiment makes this not a hypothesis , but a demonstrated conclusion .
Thus a rifle bullet keeps its point foremost ; Foucault 's gyroscope finds the earth 's axis of palpable rotation ; and the magnetic needle shows that more subtle rotatory movement in matter of the , which we call terrestrial \mdash ; all by one and the same dynamical action .
" " It is often asked , are we to fall back on facts and phenomena , and give up all idea of penetratin that mystery which hangs round the ultimate nature of matter ?
This is a question that must answered by the metaphysician , and it does not belong to the domain of Natural Philosophy .
But it does seem that the marvellous train of discovery , unparalleled in the history of experimental science , which the last years of the world has seen to emanate from experiments within these walls , must lead to a stage of knowIedge , in which laws of anic nature will be understood in this sense that one will be known as essentially connected with all , and.in which unity of plan through an inexhaustiblv varied execution will be recognised as a nniversally manifested result of creative wisdom His studies in the doctrine of energy xxix ) soon led Thomson into the intricate problem of the mechanical value of an electric current ( i.e. , the energy ) , through which he successfully threaded his way .
What he published is a brief statement in 's 'Cyclopaedia , ' edition lS60 , " " netism , Dynamical Relations of He explains that the inertia concerned cannot be intrinsic inertia of the moving electricity , for Faraday found that a current doubled back on itself gave no sensible spark on breaking the circuit ; yet , if such inertia were ever detected it could readily be included .
It is the energy of the electric induction to which the inertia belongs , as Faraday himself recognised .
He sees that when two currents , each sustained constant by an impressed electromotive force , are allowed to develope energy of mecha1lical work by their mutual attraction , their electrokinetic energy is also increased by an equal amount , both these amounts being provided from the of the battery .
Thus , for example , the * This ] as been cmiously in some recent theories of electric and thermal conduction . .
electrokinetic energy in distribution as well as in amount .
In ' Elec .
and Mag ' 1872 , p. 447 , where this statement is reprinted in full in a footnote , he adds a most interesting memorandum of date October 13 , 1851 , which shows how he had teased it into form .
He had thought " " that the [ mechanical ] value of a current will be affected by steel [ i.e. , permanent ] magnets in its neighbourhood But he was shaken in this by Faraday 's having found that soft iron is better than steel .
He " " made out the true state of the case which was that when a current is moved near a permanent magnet ains and losses of energy compensate without demanding any alteration in its intrinsic energy due to change of its position .
But when one maintained current is moved near another , the principle of conservation of total energy , electrical and thermal , requires that their electrokinetic energy shall increase by the mechanical work they perform in their change of position .
This verification of the conservation of the total energy ( October 1851 ) belohgs to the time when Thomson had finally given his adhesion to Joule 's doctrine that heat is energy instead of being a substance , and the development of thermodynamics was in full cry .
Unknown to him , the same problem had been essayed in a tract which formed one of the highest efforts of genius applied to the development of the Theory of Energy , the famous ' Erhaltung der Kraft ' of Helmholtz , published by him in 1847 to meet , as he said afterwards , with neglect from contemporary physicists ( yet F. E. Neumann was then in his prime ) , redeemed , however , by the educated appreciation of the great mathematician Jacobi .
Helmholtz had not then been under Faraday 's influence , and could have no idea of energy stored in organised kinetic form in the magnetic field of the current ; accordingly , when he puts down the equation of conservation for two mutually influencing currents , he gets it wrong .
For the case of a current and a permanent magnet it comes right , but it required Thomson 's examination to prove that it is Thus to Helmholtz belongs the merit of determining theoretically the constant of proportionality in Faraday 's law of induction , by the aid of the conservation of energy : while Thomson 's closer examination brought to light that the one equation of energy could determine only one variable , and thus prepared the way for Maxwell 's application of the generalised dynamics of Lagrange , * This had been published in ' Proc. Glasgow Phil. Soc January 1853 .
Cf .
' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 530 .
It was so quoted in Maxwell 's 'Treatise , ' vol. 2 , S 544 ( 1872 ) .
It remains so in the reprint , Helmholtz 's 'Abhandlungen , ' vol. 1 , p. 64 ( 1881 ) ; but in pp. 91-5 are some improvements of date 1854 as regards induction with magnetisable iron that were called forth by the criticism of Clausius .
Cf .
, however , Helmholtz 's addition of 1854 in reply to Clausius , where he mentions his difficulty of access to electrical literature in 1847 , and modestly places the chief merit of the essay in the point of view .
xxiv Obituary Notices of deceased .
which came only in 1864.* Thomson had , however , as early as 1848 , communicated to the British Association an investigation based on Neumann 's expression .
the law of induction , and on the same lines as Helmholtz 's exposition ; he there speaks of .
as " " mechanical effect continually lost or spent in some physical agency ( according to Joule , the generation of heat Thomson was not slow in developing the entrance to the mechanical relations of electric currents , and of electric inertia , thus obtained .
The classical paper on transient currents was communicated to the Glasgow Phil. Soc. in January and published in full in the 'Phil .
Mag. ' the following June .
It contains the demonstration that oscillatory electric discharges must exist under suitable circumstances , \mdash ; and gives that determination of their peliod which , in the hands of Hertz , led to the detection of electric waves in free space , bringing with them wireless telegraphy , and in the other direction nearly bridging the gap between electric experiments and optical phenomena .
It appears from a footnote ( p. 549 ) that he arrived at this theory early in 1852 .
He afterwards found that Helmholtz had definitely suspected the oscillatory character of the discharge , in the ' Erhaltung der Kraft ' ( 1847 ) , from its alternating effects in magnetisation as observed by , and from the evolution of mixed gases in electrolysis which was discovered by Wollaston and at a later time puzzled Faraday .
We now pass to another phase of Thomson 's mental activity .
His first formal memoir\mdash ; ' in the grand style ' as has been said\mdash ; appearedS in 1849 , on " " The Mathematical Theory of netism As he recom1ts in an abstract , in the netic theory of Poisson , employed by Green and by Murphy , the development is based on a hypothesis of two magnetic fluids , which the recent discoveries in electromagnetism had rendered incongruous .
The aim of the memoir is to purify the expression of the theory by placing the results on a wider foundation .
The general idea of polarity and of a polar element of volume is defined and made precise .
' However different are the physical circumstances of magnetic and electric polarity , it appears that the positive laws of the phenomena are the same and therefore the mathematical theories are identical .
Either subject might be taken as an example of a very important branch of physical mathematics which might be called ' A Mathematical Theory of Polar Forces .
' ' ' The memoir proceeds with abundant explanation , perhaps needed at that time to supplant the cruder imagery , and to enforce the relation of Poisson 's ideal density of magnetic matter to the actual distribution of polarity which it , only in certain respects , represents .
He defines the , with due reference to Green 's intro'Dynamical Theory SS 17 , 24 seq. ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 81 .
'Math .
and Phys. ' vol. 1 , p. 534 .
S 'Transactions of the Society ' for June 1849 , and June 1850 .
Referring for this to ' Cambridge and Dublin Math. Journa vol. 1 , 1845 , as supra .
Lord Kelvin .
xxv duction of the name in 1828 , and shows that if that function is calculated as for the distribution of ideal magnetic matter , its gradient represents the magnetic force , defined as Maxwell used the term afterwards , to represent the force in a cavity of such elongated shape in the polarised medium that there is no sensible purely local part .
In the Reprint in 1871 is here inserted , in ilustration , an investigation of the centre and axes of a magnet , reproduced in Maxwell 's Treatise ( S392 seq. ) the following year .
Then the mutuai potential energy of two magnets is formulated with a view to the determination of their attractions .
A chapter folows on solenoidal and lamellar distributions of magnetism , and as a special case the Gaussian magnetic shell , which perhaps may be said to have expressed a theory of Ampere in the new geometrical terminology of solid angles .
Then follow long disquisitions , partly interpolated in the Reprint from contemporary manuscripts , partly of date 1871 , which confirm the impression that the writer 's strength does not lie in synthetic exposition , but rather in flashes of insight and play of suggestion around his results such as have already been passed in review .
A footnote of 1872 explains that in 1850 he had no belief* in the reality of Ampere 's theory of magnetism , not then knowing " " that motion is the very essencet of what has been hitherto called matter .
At the 1847 Meeting of the British Association at Oxford , I learned from Joule the dynamical theory of heat , and was forced to abandon at once many , radually from year to year other , statical preconceptions regarding the ultimate causes of apparently statical phenomena Then the introduction to his paper of 1856 on the dynamics of magneto-optics is quoted in full as already reproduced .
At the end of the Reprint he inserts a paper , " " On the Potential of a Closed Galvanic Circuit of Form of date which , besides emphasising the energy-aspect of the potential , is concerned with definitions ( suggested by some of De Morgan 's on area ) of solid angle for complex convoluted types of .
circuits , whicJu is in fact a subject in sis Situs .
It will be convenient to follow out here the more recent additions on netic theory which make up the remainder of the } ) rint .
There is a chapter on the Value ( Energy ) of Distributions of Matter and of netism .
Then follows a chapter on " " Hydrokinetic Analogy\ldquo ; to Magnetic Flux , and a further paper at the end entitled " " General Hydronetic Analogy for Induced Magnetism\ldquo ; ( 1872 ) , which are in fact extensions of the beautiful representation by frictionally resisted flow through a solid porous mass , which Maxwell had employed , apparently unknown to him , with much elegance in his earliest memoir ' On Faraday 's Lines of Force In the latter paper the new term ' permeability ' to flux ) is defined as an equivalent for coefficient of induction .
' ' It is absolutely impossible to conceive of the currents which he ( Ampere ) describes , rotlnd the of matter , as having a existence Brit. Assoc 1867 ( Oxford ) ; 'Elec .
and Mag p. 469 .
Eis first memoirs on vortex motion are of date 1867-9 .
ambridge and Dublin Math. Journal .
' xxvi Obituary Notices of Fellous A chapter on ' Inverse Problems ' in Magnetism is added , containing much ] detail on the analogy with flow , after the manner of his first paper of 1845 Here a characteristic passage is of personal interest .
" " With reference to these problems I find a leaf of manuscript written in French , endorsed :\mdash ; ' Fragment of draft of.letter to M. Liouville , written on the Faulhorn , Sunday September 12 , 1847 , and posted on the Monday or Tuesday week after at Maidstone .
The letter has not been published yet , although in Septembe 1848 , I understood from M. Liouville , in Paris , that he had it for publication Probably it has fallen aside and is lost [ ?
in consequence of the disturbec state of Paris at that time ] , which I should regret , as it contains my firs ) ideas , and physical , especially hydrodynamical , demonstrations of the theorem ; I am now about to write out for my paper on " " Magnetism\ldquo ; for the Roya Society , from rough drafts written in August 1848 .
W. T. , October 29 1849.'* The ' now ' has been deferred until the present time , November 20 1871 .
I am obliged to write from memory , as I have not been able recover any of those drafts The chapter consists largely theorems of existence and determinacy of magnetic disCributionS , corre sponding to conditions over the boundary of the region , which established and enforced from the analogy of liquid flux .
To the British Association at Oxford , in 1867 , he explained concisely on modern lines how all the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism could represented as the effect of a calculable ideal sheet of electric current sprea over the surface , whether })herical or otherwise .
The continuation of the memoir on netism of 1849-50 , which treated the " " Theory of Magnetic Induction in Crystalline and Non-crystallin stances , \ldquo ; overflowerl into another Journal in 1851 .
He begins recounting how Poisson in his third memoir on Magnetism ( 1823 ) already contemplated the effect of crystalline arrangement of the magnef , i elements ' within which the neutral 'magnetic fluid ' was considered to separable by the field so as to produce polarity : non-sphericity of foIn ( or any aeolotropy ) would also be potent , for the axes of the would all be similarly orientated .
The subject was dropped by Poisson after arriving at the linear vector form of relation , of unrestricted type however , connecting the induced magnetisation and the magnetising force : remarks that it would be curious to test whether crystallised actually exhibited such directional effects .
} } omson points out that " " a discovery of Plucker 's had established the very circumslance which makes obvious the importance of working out a mathematical theory .
As the earlier memoir , a main object is to replace the artificial conception of magnetic fluid by distribution of netic polarity , which is all that objectively ascertainable , combined with the hypothesis of simple super position of effects\mdash ; restricted , however , to feebly magnetic material , to 'Elec .
and Mag p. 458 .
'Elec .
and Mag pp. 'Phil .
Mag March 1851 ; 'Elec .
and Mag pp. Lord Kelvin .
xxvii the equations of magnetisation are thus linear .
Then he considers the magnetisation of a small crystalline sphere situated in a uniform field .
He serts the existence of three principal magnetic axes in the crystal , which he is tempted in a footnote to identify with the known principal axes of optical elasticity .
He expresses the torque acting on such a sphere , by aid of the hypothesis of superposition of magnetisations due to the components of the inducing field along these principal magnetic axes .
Then he gets to the expression.of a work-function depending on position and orientation , in the various spacial gradients of which the translational forcive is involved as well as this rotational forcive .
As he now remarks , he had recently obtained* this work-function the simpler case of isotropic material in the form , and established by means of it the theoretical validity of Faraday 's principle derived from observation , the tendency of magnetisable matter to travel towards regions of more intense force .
He now extends it to the general case .
He inquires of araday whether he had noticed that a piece of bismuth was repelled differently according to its orientation , a question already suggested by Poisson at the very eginnings of the subject .
Then he cites 's suggestion of two years before ( December 1848 ) , assigning inductive quality , varying with direction , as the cause of the definite orientation of a small crystalline mass near a powerful etic pole , which shows that Faraday had propounded the same question for himself .
The question was immediately answered , in the manner anticipated , in experiments of Tyndall .
Then he throws out a suggestion of the curious results obtainable with a crystal , immersed in fluid of inductive power intermediate between its own greatest and least talline inductive powers .
An appendix to this paper makes the quotations from Poisson 's memoir referred to above .
Then it proceeds to a remark which illuminates the whole subject .
After reporting Poisson 's general linear vector relation between magnetisation and , involving nine coefficients reducible to one for isotropic matter , he proceeds as follows:\mdash ; " " and there is nothing to indicate the possihility of establishing any relations among the nine 'coeflicients which must hold for matter in general .
I have found that the following relations , reducing the number of independent coefficients from nine to six , must be fulfilled , whatever be the nature of the substance [ namely , equality of the conjugate coefficients ] ; the demonstration being founded on no uncertain or special hypothesis , but on the principle that a sphere of matter of any kind , placed in a uniform field of force , and made to turn round an axis fixed perpendicular to the lines of force , cannot be an inexhaustible source of mechanical effect .
All the conclusions with reference to magnecrystallic action enunciated in the preceding abstract are founded on these relations There the subject breaks off in 1801 : something else had obtained posses'Phil .
Mag October 1850 ; but see next , referring to ' Cambridge and Dublin Math. Journal , ' 1847 .
xxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
sion of the author 's mind .
Demonstration and elucidation are provided in the Reprint in 1872 .
The result was , perhaps , one of the most exquisite and brilliant mathematical applications*of the principle of the Conservation of that had yet or ever been made : not only did it show that every crystal must have three principal axes of magnetic induction , without any rotational quality , but the argument is also directly applicable to electrostatic induction , and is thus the essential feature in the immediate deduction by Maxwell thirteen years later of Fresnel 's laws of optical double refraction from electric principles .
It may be recalled again in connexion with the above that araday 's doctrine of flux in tubes of force and " " conducting power for lines of force\ldquo ; dates from October 1850 , and thus comes between Thomson 's two memoirs described above .
It should also be recorded that the explanation of Faraday 's principle , a small soft iron sphere is urged towards regions of stronger force , belongs to a date as early as But then the force urging the sphere is proved to be the gradient of the as yet uninterpreted function vol. , obtained by direct calculation from the magnetic principles of Poisson ; the remark that it was not until the autumn of 1847 that he had learnt the doctrine of Conservation of Energy from Joule has been quoted already .
Helmholtz 's ' der Kraft ' appeared in July 1847 .
Yet he triumphantly utilises this force-function to vindicate Faraday 's profound view that a thin bar of netic material should point equatorially when placed in the line between magnetic poles .
In a uniform field it point axially , though with a force extremely feeble ; but , quoting the words of Faraday , ' the cause of the pointing of the bar , of any oblong arrangement of the heavy glass , is now evident .
It is merely a result of the tendency of the particles to move outwards , or into the positions of weakest magnetic action .
The joint exertion of the action of all the particles brings it into the position which by experiment is found to belong to it This doctrine proved difficult , and , in fact , became controversial , some physicists unduly dominated by simpler phenomena of forces of orientation , even Plucker 's conclusions not being unexceptionable and a good deal of attention was paid by Thomson at this time to its further elucidation and to very fascinating experimental illustrations .
It is in sense , possibly already in Faraday 's own view , the generalisation of the hydrostatic principle of Archimedes , which would assert that in a field of power a more susceptible body will displace one less susceptible .
The subject need not here be followed further .
Thomson and Maxwell both revert again and again to this crowning instance of Fal'aday 's mathematical sagacity .
Thus , to Thomson , in 1870 , S 'Elec .
and Mag p. 485 .
Cambridge and Dublin Math. ] .
, dated from Peterhouse , May 13 .
No. 2269 .
S 'Elec .
and Mag p. 580 . .
Lord Kelvin .
xxix " " One of the most brilliant steps made in philosophical exposition of which any instance existed in the history of science , was that in which Faraday stated , in three or four words , intensely full of meaning , the law of the magnetic attraction and repulsion experienced by inductively magnetised bodies And again , " " Mathematicians were content to investigate .
; but Faraday , without mathematics , divined the result of the mathematical investigation ; and , what , has proved of infinite value to the mathematicians themselves , he has given them an articulate language in which to express their results . . .
It must be said for the mathematicians that they greedily accepted it , and have ever since been most zealous in using it to the best advantage Incidentally it is of interest to note that Thomson 's ' theoretical ' physical solution of the problem of ' Mahomet 's coffin , ' to suspend a body in stable equilibrium in mid-space without supports or contacts of any kind , appears in this paper , the example being .
a diamagnetic sphere situated on the axial line of a straight vertical If one had to specify a single department of activity tojustify Lord Kelvin 's fame , it would probably be his work in mexion with the establishment of the science of Energy , in the widest sense in which itis the most far-reaching construction of the last century in physical science .
This doctrine has not only furnished a standard of industrial values which has enabled mechanical power in all its ramifications , however recondite its sources may be , to be measuled with scientific precision as a commercial asset ; it has also , in its other aspect of the continual dissipation of available energy , created the doctrine of inorganic evolution and changed our conceptions of the material universe .
A sketch of the early history of this doctrine will illustrate the innate power and independence of Lord Kelvin 's thought , as well as in some degree his relations to his great predecessors and contemporaries .
The initial difficulty of the subject lay the feature , entirely novel to physical science , that in the inorganic world what we call dissipation or scattering of energy is loss , only in a subjective sense ; it concerns only the energy " " available to man , for the production of mechanical effect to use Thomson 's own phrase of 1852.* We can produce organised mechanical effect from diffuse energy such as heat , which consists in the ulated motion of a crowd of jostling molecules , only by judicious uiding of its inmate effort towards an equilibrium , just as we can get power from a turbulent waterfall by guiding the stream against a mill-wheel or turbine .
But when the average of the molecular motions has come to a steady equilibrium throughout all parts of the material system , of which uniformity of temperature is the criterion , all chance of arranging or guiding part of its molecular energy into co-ordinated power available for our operations on finite bodies has passed away .
This is , roughly , the of the principle of Carnot .
Yet the energy has not disappeared ; it is still there , but it is uniformly ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 606 .
xxx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
diifused and so not recoverable into the anised form of mechanical power This absolute conservation of the total energy is the principle of Joule , which is the main experimental support of the presumption that all energy ultimately of the dynamical type .
In a complete view of physical trans .
formations the two principles , of Calnot and of Joule , have both to find thei ] places .
Here a fundamental perplexity confronted and detained Lord Kelvin for some three years , When heat is allowed to flow away to a lower temperature without through an engine , its capacity for doing work has been dissipated .
The opportunity for obtaining mechanical powe ] from it has vanished beyond recall .
Can then heat be correctly as mechanical energy if some of the mechanical is lost irrecoverably every time that the heat diffuses to a lower temperature Thomson , attracted by the engineering side of things , was dominated by Carnot'f principle , as we have seen , even when as a youth , in 1845 , he went to to 's laboratory .
Thus he at once set himself to explore its practical content by the aid of the mass of exact data on gases acquired by Regnault as soon as these results appeared , in lS47 , as the first instalment of the famous series of experimental researches , which had been subsidised by the Frencl ] overnment with a view to all the data that could be pertinent towards the improvement of knowledge of the principles of steam and gas engines .
In Thomson 's first towards this end , entitled " " On an Absolute Thermometric Scale founded on Carnot 's Theory of the Motive Power of Heat , and calculated from 's Observations he clears the for exact physical reasoning by elevating the idea of temperature from a mere featureless record of comparison of thelmometers into a general principle of physical nature , making it a measure of the dynamical potentiality of heat , which is , on Carnot 's principles , an intrinsic measure , i.e. , quite independent of the substances in which the heat happens to be contained .
But he cannot get rid of the impression that heat is something different from , which may produce energy in falling to a lower level of temperature , or on the other hand may diffuse passively , so that this opportunity of creating energy is irrecoverably wasted .
uch a view would tend towards the caloric theory which held that heat is somehow substantial ; in terms of it Carnot , in fact , formulated his argument .
It has been remarked on this by Helmholtz that if Carnot had then possessed compJeter knowledge he would possibly never hit upon his principle ; on the other hand , his rough *Cf .
Reynolds ' very " " Life of Joule forming vol. 6 , 1892 , of ' Mem. Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc. ' After the notice had beeIl prepared , the writer found that the early history of thel.modynamics had been gone over by Professor E. Mach , of Vienna , in 'Die Principicn der Warn)elehre -kritisch entwickelt , ' , with results , in its restricted ran ge of applications purely thermal , which seem to substantially with the views here taken .
The development of the ideas and formulae of the general science of energetics xlvii ) by Thomson is thus not considered ; while in most other special treatises it is almost entirely obscured by from the historical order of exposition .
Proc. Cambridge Phil. Soc 1848 .
Lord Kelvin .
xxxi manuscx.ipts , published many years after , have revealed that during the remaining six years of his short life he was inclining strongly towards the correct view on the nature of heat .
In a footnote , Thomson gives expression to his own doubt .
The experiments of\ldquo ; Mr. Joule , of Manchester seem\ldquo ; to indicate an actual conversion of mechanical effect into caloric .
No experiment , however , is adduced in which the converse operation is exhibited ; but it must be confessed that as yet much is involved in mystery with reference to these fundament questions of Natural Philosophy And in a fuller account , soon after , of Carnot 's Theory , further developed numerically by aid of the data given by 's experiments on steam , he adheres substantially to this position , " " although this , and with it every other branch of the Theory of Heat , may ultimately require to be reconstructed upon another foundation when our experimental data are more complete He returns , in a note , stimulated by a remark of Joule , to the problem of what becomes of the mechanical effect that appears to be lost when heat difluses ; but he cannot admit the suggeStion of Joule to cut the knot by abandoning Carnot 's principle , and he appeals to further experiment either for a verification of Carnot 's axiom , and an explanation of the difficulty we have been considering : an entirely new for the Theory of Heat Still harassed by these doubts , he returns yet again to test the experimental verihcation of Carnot 's principle ( which he finds adequate ) in an Appendix ; for , as he says , " " Nothing in the whole of Natural Philosophy is more remarkable than the establishment of general laws by such a process of reasoning\ldquo ; as is that principle in its wider ramifications .
We have here found Thomson actually hesitating as to whether heat is to be classified as energy , on the ground that the fall of heat to a lower temperature can occur without developing any mechanical work .
Yet it is true , as Lord Rayleigh has expressed that most great authorities , especially in , including Newton , Csvendish , Rumford , Young , Davy , etc. , have always been in favour of the doctrine that heat is a mode of motion .
The fact is , as we have seen , that Thomson knew too much to allow him to rest in such a partial view of things ; he saw , also , a totally different side of the subject , which not even his connexion with Joule , and appreciation of his work , could allow him merely to ignore .
Just a year before Thomson 's first paper on Carnot 's principle , Helmholtz , then a young army surgeon , had stepped ( 1847 ) into the first rank of physicists ( though recognition came later , the memoir , e.g. , becoming known to Thomson only in 1852 ) by the publication of the 'Erhaltung der lCraft , ' which asserted the universality of the conservation of total energy , and developed with convincing terseness and lucidity the ramifications of that principle throughout ature .
establish the transformation of heat into work he is already able to appeal to the classical experiments of Joule , 'Trans .
R. S. ' January 2 , 1849 .
April 3 , 1849 .
The Scientific Work of Tyndall ' Roy .
Inst. , 1894 .
xxxii Notices of Fellows publisbed three years previously \mdash ; not yet mentioned by Ihomson , whether it was from want of knowledge or from some fancied mode of evading their force in the light of his insistence on Carnot 's principle .
These experiments proved definitely that expansion of a gas working ainst the pressure of the atmosphere an equivalent of heat , whereas expansion into a vacuum absorbs none .
It was , in fact , in this paper that Joule rather summarily condenmed Carnot 's principle as above mentioned , on account of its supposed discrepancy with his own established results .
And Helmholtz had naturally to consider this point .
He seems to have had access then only to Clapeyron 's account of Carnot , of date 1843 , from which , however , he the argument succinctly and colTectly .
He admits the probability of the truth of Clapeyron 's deductions for gases , but falls back on the suggestion that they may also be obtainable otherwise on more certain principles ; while he characterises as very unlikely the ( correct ) inference that compression of water between its point of maximum density and the freezing-point would absorb heat .
Thus Helmholtz , *contrary to Ihomson , saves the conservation of total energy by abandoning and noring the ideas belonging to the principle of Carnot .
The brilliant and suggestive writings of J. R. Mayer on the conservation of total energy were at that time unknown to Helmholtz : they seem to have been first brought to general notice by Joule himself in the classical memoir on the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat presented by Faraday to the Royal Society in 1849 .
The sketch above given will have shown how little such theoretical considerations as those of Mayer , however and acute within their own range , were calculated to re1uove the profounder perplexities of Thomson , so long as there remained the apparently essential contradiction on which these doubts had their foundation .
His insistence in class lectures on the absolute necessity for Joule 's experimental work is still recalled by his students .
The credit of being the first to resolve these difficulties to Clausius .
In his memoir " " On the Motive Power of Heat and the Laws of Heat which may be deduced therefrom communicated to the Berlin Academy in February 1850 , he quotes the title of Carnot 's tract ( Paris , 1824 ) in a footnote at the of the paper , which proceeds as follows:\mdash ; " " I have not been able to procure a copy of this work : I know it solely through the of Clapeyron and Thomson , from which latter are taken the passages hereafter cited Then , in the introductory section , after referring to the difficulties above discussed , and the work of Holtzmann , Mayer , and Joule , he continues : " " The difference between the two ways of arding the subject has been seized with much greater clearness by W. Thomson , who has applied the recent investigations of , on the tension and latent heat of steam , to Abhandlungen , ' vol. 1 , p. 38 .
Osborne olds , , p. 133 .
qnotations are from Hirst 's translation , in which this memoir occupies pp. 14-68 .
Lord Kelvin .
xxxui the completing of the memoir of Carnot .
* Thomson mentions distinctly the obstacles which lie in the way of an unconditional acceptance of Carnot 's theory , referring particularly to the ations of Joule , and dwelling on one principal objection to which the theory is liable .
If it be even granted that the production of work , where the body in action remains in the same state after the production as before , is in all cases accompanied by a transmission of heat from a warm body to a cold one , it does not follow that by every such transmission work is produced , for the heat may be carried over by simple conduction ; and in all such cases , if the transmission alone were the true equivalent of the work performed , an absolute loss of mechanical force must take place in nature , which is hardly conceivable .
Notwithstanding this , however , he arrives at the conclusion that in the present state of science the principle assumed by Carnot is the most probable foundation for an investigation on the moving force of heat .
He says : 'If we forsake this principle , we stumble immediately on innumerable other difficulties , which , without further experimental investigations , and an entirely new erection of the theory of heat , are altogether insurmountable .
' " " I believe , nevertheless , that we not to suffer ourselves to be daunted by these difficulties ; but that , on the contrary , we must look steadfastly into this theory which calls heat a motion , as in this way alone can we arrive at the means of it or refuting it .
Besides this , I do not imagine that the difficulties are so great as Ihomson considers them to be ; for although a certain alteration in our way of regarding the subject is necessary , still I find that this is in no case contradicted by proved facts .
It is not even requisite to cast the theory of Carnot overboard ; a thing difficult to be resolved upon , inasmuch as experience to a certain extent has shown a surprising coincidence therewith .
On a nearer view of the case , we find that the new theory is opposed , not to the real fundamental principle of Carnot but to the addition ' no heat is lost ' ; for it is quite possible that in the production of work both may take place at the same time ; a certain portion of heat may be consumed , and a further portion transmitted from a warm body to a cold one ; and both portions may stand in a certain definite relation to the quantity of work produced .
This will be made plainer as we proceed ; and it will be moreover shown that the inferences to be drawn from both assumptions may not only exist together , but that they mutually support each other This memoir , as Willard Gibbs justly claims in his obituary notice ( 1889 ) of Clausius , laid securely the foundations of modern thermodynamics .
But it seems equally true that this high merit lies mainly in the single remark at the end of the just quoted , which resolved the difficulties that had stopped Thomson ; after that the development , though luminously accomplished , would have been plain any first-class intellect .
Thomson 's great memoir " " On the Dynamical Iheory of Heat , in which he at once ' Trans. R. S. Edinburgh , ' vol. 16 .
' Trans. R. S. Edinburgh , ' March 1851 .
VOL LXXXL\mdash ; A. xxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows connects Clausius ' name with that of Carnot , appeared the following year .
After a demonstration of the principle of " " Carnot and Clausius\ldquo ; ( S 13 ) , he proceeds ( S 14 ) to say that , about a year before , he had adopted this principle in connexion with Joule 's principle , notwithstanding that he could not then resolve the apparent discrepancy , as the basis of a ) ractical investigation of the motive power of heat in air and steam engines .
It was not until the commencement of the present year that I found the demonstration given above .
It is with no wish to claim priority that make these statements , as the merit of first the proposition upon correct principles is entirely due to Clausius , who published his demonstration of it in the month of May last year , in the second part of his paper on the motive power of heat .
I may be allowed to add that I have given the demonstration exactly as it occurred to me before I knew that Clausius had either enunciated or demonstrated the proposition .
The reasoning in each demonstration is strictly to that which Carnot originally gave Once Thomson gets thus under weigh , as we have seen , by his owrl unaided efl'orts though anticipated by Clausius , he developes rapidly the thermal aspects of the subject , concurrently with Clausius and Bankine , but with wider generality , in particular avoiding their hypotheses connected with perfect gases .
So little was he prepared to trust to a permanent gas thermometer as giving practically the intrinsic dynamical scale of temperature , that the following year he had already begun with Joule their series of laborious joint experiments to determine exactly how much the gas thermometers differ from the absolute scale .
Their procedure was to deduoe the result sought from observation of the slight cooling or produced by driving the gas under high pressure through a porous partition ; with a perfect gas the process would be isothermal .
When we consider that the results were to ] into the very core of molecular dynamics , the Qation may well rank to this day as one of the most striking advanoes in the record of physical science .
It is noteworthy that Thomson in his own work kept on with the symbol for the unknown Carnot 's function , until the dynamical scale had thns been experimen.tally invesCigated ; though a gas thermometer was doubtless adequate to give to Clausius and Rankine indications of absolute temperature , so far as required for their preliminary approximate investigations over limited range .
We have only to think of the modern physical undertakings steadily pushed downward toward the absolute zero of temperature , to realise that , except on the basis of Thomson 's dynamical scale of 1847 and his method conjointly with Joule of exactly realising it in 1852 , there could be no such thing as temperature in a scientific sense , and low temperature research would be devoid of most of its significance .
These essential foundations for the scientific treatment of Energy were laid firmly in , in a way that has held good without substantial modification ever since .
Perhaps this poin , the rigorous scientific generality of the foundations on which he built from the , could not be enforced more strongly than r- Lord Kelvin .
xxxv by recalling that it is just this Thomson-Joule intrinsic cooling effect of expansion without external work , very slight under ordinary conditions , due merely to mutual separation of the molecules of the gas , that is ths essential feature in the modern continuous for liquefaction of even the most refractory gases , by the expenditure of mechanical power to abstract the heat , which have now become familiar .
On the other hand , the great economy of the reversed Carnot gas-cycle for ordinary refrigeration was pointed out in 1852 , and applied by his brother to the ventilation of Belfast College .
In their parallel developments of the subject , while Clausius kept mainly to the theory of heat engines , applications over the whole domain of physical science crowded on Thomson .
Already in December 1851 , he communicates to the Royal Society of Edinburgh his T.heory of Thermo-electric Phenomena , including the classical prediction of the convection of heat by the electric current , the so-called Thomson effect , which in the theory of electrons has a literal title .
to its original name .
The formula of the printed abstract*of this paper show that he must have been already in full command ( December of Carnot 's principle in its most generalised form , , as he expressed it in May 1854 , but there introducing absolute temperature , then recently determined by himself and Joule , \mdash ; that in a complete reversible cycle of vanishes , or in differential notation , a form which was independently given by Clausius in December , and from which the transition to Clausius ' entropy-function ( 1856 ) is but a step .
These advances appeared in full in the memoir , ' Trans. B. S. Edin where , in the way customary with him , he passes on to a long digression on the thermo-electrics of crystalline matter , including , after Stokes , the full theory of rotational vector effects .
This latter subject was brought into prominence many years after , when times were riper for it , wioh reference back to the present exposition , on the announcement by E. H. Hall of the discovery of an influence of this kind in electnc conduction in a powerful netic field .
Here also shines forth in a notable example what was always a main feature of Thomson 's theoretical activity , the utilisation to the utmost of models and images of physical phenomena .
He absolutely refused to deny to matter , however continuous and uniform as to sense it might appear to be , the possession of any property which he could imitate in a lattice structure or other architectural model , however complex ; clearly , in his view , one has no right to assign limits a priori .
to the possible physical complexity of molecular aggregation .
One type of such limits , indeed , the only ones a priori , he vindicated in one of his most refined theoretical advances , those , namely , which are imposed on reversible phenomena by the principle of the conservation of energyThe demonstration on these lines that there can be no rotational quality in either metic or dielectric excitation in continuous media afterwards became , in Maxwell 's hands , one of the main confirmations in the general * Matb .
and Phys. ) vol. 1 , pp. 316-323 .
, pp. 232-261 .
xxxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
electric interpretation of optics , by leading at once to the validity of Fresnel 's theory of double refraction .
Cf .
supra , .
xxviii .
But we must return from this digression .
The cosmical aspect of Carnot 's principle , in its reconcilement with that of Joule , had immediately arrested Thomson 's attention , and the fundamental law of Dissipation of Energy in natural phenomena stood revealed in a brief note in Apri11852 , embodying the following momentous and carefully formulated " " 1 .
There is at present in the world a universal tendency to the dissipation of mechanical energy .
" " 2 .
Any restoration of mechanical energy , without more than an equivalent dissipation , is impossible in inanimate material processes , and is probably never effected by means of organised matter , either endowed with vegetable life or subject to the will of an animated creature .
" " 3 .
Within a finite period of time past , the Earth must have been , and within a finite period of time to come the Earth must again be , unfit for the habitation of man as at present constituted , unless operations have been , or are to be , performed , which are impossible under the laws to which the known operations on at present in the material world are subject It is of interest to contrast this principle of degradation , or diffusion , of towards a uniform equilibrium , with the other great principle , dominating the phenomena of the organic world , which took shape at about the same time .
Just fifty years biological thought was startled with the idea of the gradual evolution of organic forms , by the persistence , hereditary transmission , of such accidental modifications as are adapted to the surrounding conditions of life , to the environment .
In inorganic phenomena the energy becomes distributed among merely passive molecules ; in the organic world the unit of investigation is an organism which has apparently the active property of fixing and transmitting in its descendants any structural peculiarity that it may come by .
But even here there is something in common ; the automatic evolution towards improved adaptation , in this case with no limit or equilibrium yet in sight , is attained at the cost of compensating dissipation , namely , the destruction of the individuals that happen to be ill adapted even though in other respects superior .
We observe in passing that in Thomson 's formulation , Clause 2 already implies Clausius ' conception ( 1854 ) of compensating transformations .
What is perhaps now more is that it expresses a decided opinion ( which he still retained in 1892 ) on a question which Helmholtz to the end preferred to leave open , namely , whether the refinements of minute structure and adaptation in vital organisms may permit departure from the law of dissipation , which is known to be inflexible in the inorganic world , by utilising to some extent diffuse thermal for the production of vital mechanical power .
The development of Clause 3 led to the famous series of investigapassage in his Lectures on Heat , posthumously published .
Lord Kelvin .
xxxvii tions and discussions regarding the beginnings and the ultimate fate of our universe , and the duration of time , which have formed a region of intimate contact , but not always of agreement , between dynamical and evolutionary science .
Earlier in the same note , and also more fully in PhiL Mag February 1853 , Thomson illustrated his early complete grasp of all matters relating to the availability of thermal energy and to compensating transformations , in calculating the dissipation which arises from throttling steam , and the work which can theoretically be gained from the thermal energy in an unequally heated space .
This history is , however , not yet complete .
Examination of the 'Notes inedites ' of Sadi Carnot , appended to the reprint of the 'Beflexions , ' published with charming detail by his brother in 1878 , and welcomed enthusiastically by .
Lord Kelvin , leaves an impression that Carnot already struggling with difficulties of the kind to which the insight of Thomson exposed him some twenty years later .
He had analysed ( p. 91 ) , with sure instinct , the Gay-Lussac experiment concerning heat of expansion of gas by efflux , and afterwards developed it ( p. 96 ) into a suggestion of the identical porous experiment of Joule and Thomson .
He points out ( p. 92 ) that the view that heat is " " le resultat d'un mouvement vibratoire des molecules\ldquo ; conforms to our knowledge in a long list of the principal transformations of energy ; " " mais il serait difficile de dire pourquoi , dans le d6ve1oppement de la puissance motrice par la chaleur , un corps froid est necessaire , pourquoi , en consommant la chaleur d'un corps echauffe , on no peut pas produire du mouvement He seems to be ( p. 94 ) to think out a definite distinction between this movement of the particles of bodies and the " " puissance motrice\ldquo ; into which it cannot be back .
" " Si les molecules des corps no sont jamais en contact intime les unes avec les autres , quelles que soient les forces qui les separent ou les attirent , il no peut jamais avoir ni production , ni perte , de puissance motrice dans la nature .
Alors le retablissement d'equilibre immediate du calorique et son retablissement avec production de puissance motrice seraient essentiellement differents l'un et l'autre.\ldquo ; " " La chaleur n'est autre chose que la puissance motrice , ou plutot que le mouvement qui a change de form .
C'est un mouvement dans les particules des corps .
Partout ou il a destruction de puissance motrice , il , en meme temps , production de chaleur and reciprocally .
Like Thomson at the later date , he intended to seek the guidance of further experiment , outlines of which he sketched .
These extracts suggest the very problems which are still fundamental in the molecular theory of etics , about which much is yet to be learned , though Thomson 's theory of dissipation of energy and its molecular interpretation by Maxwell and Thomson and Boltzmann has illuminated the whole field .
Yet Carnot already saw ( p. 93 ) that his negation of perpetual motion demands that when eat does work in falling to a lower temperature , if xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows some heat is really absorbed in the process the amount so absorbed must be independent of the mechanism of the process , must , in fact , be an equivalent of the work ; for if the other alternative were possible , " " on pourrait creer de la puissance motrice sans consommation de combustible et par simple destruction de la chaleur des corps Clausius and Ihomson had nothing in 1850 to add to this reasoning of date earlier than 1832 .
No apology is required for thus dwelling at length on this episode in the evolution of the principles of physical science , the development of the principle of energy into its wider aspect , in which it assumes its universal co-ordinating as the principle of available energy , involving its complete available conservation only in the limited class of phenomena that satisfy the Carnot test of reversible , and in other cases emphasising the partial dissipation into diffused unavailable molecular energy which is characteristic of the operations of physical nature .
No passage in the history of modern physics can , perhaps , compare with it in interest .
In the other advance of the last century , the unravelment of the function of the aether as the sole means of intercommunication between the molecules of matter so as to constitute a cosmos , as the seat of the activities of radiation and of electric and chemical change , the problem to be solved was of a different type .
The questions have there been more precise ; they have suggested , and their ation has been directed by , definite adaptable trains of experiment .
But the pioneers in the theory of available energy had to probe among the arcana of common experience , in a manner which takes us back to the nings of dynamical science and recalls the efforts of Archimedes and Galileo and Pascal in detecting controlling principles in the maze of everyday phenomena .
The stimulus to all this wide grasp of the relations of inanimate ature had its origin in the progress of mechanical invention , in the successful construction and operation of thermal engines .
Irrespective of the of their industrial improvement , the detection of the essential features of this mechanical value of heat would appeal strongly to an analytical mind like that of Carnot .
But his compact rincjple , as its content was ultimately developed in Thomson 's hands , far transcended the special themlal problem from which it started ; it now dominates tlJe whole range of physical science .
It is only on its validity that our confidence is based , that we can treat the interactions of the finite bodies of our experience by strict mathematical and dynamical reasoning , entirely leaving aside , as self-balanced and inoperative , those erratic though statistically regular motions of the molecules , forming a very considerable part of the total , which constitute heat in equilibrium .
This fundamental basis of knowledge of inani1nate nature , thus acquired from clues gested by human industrial improvements , still retains an aspect essentially anthropomorphic ; it is conditioned by the limitations of our outlook as determined by the coarseness of our senses , as Maxwell seems Lord Kelvin .
xxxix to have been the first definitely to perceive .
For the case of an ultra-material sentient creature of bodily size so small as to be comparable with a single chemical atom , his own sensible physical universe would be controlled by some fundamental law possibly of quite different type , while the phenomena which are prominent to us would take on for him a cosmical character as regards both time and space .
We can ourselves catch partial glimpses of such a transformed physical universe , not subject to ordinary laws of matter in bulk , in the phenomena of high vacua , where the gaseous molecules come nearly individually before our attention and can almost be counted , and in the recent cognate phenomena of radio-activity either spontaneous or electrically excited .
The boundary of demarcation of this new world from the universe which is dominated by the principle of available energy is naturally ill-defined : its exploration sheds light on both , and is perhaps the most interesting of the present activities of theoretical and practical physics .
Here also Lord Kelvin h.as played a part .
Already , in 1852 , he had prefixed to one of his papers the title " " On the Sources available to Man for the Production of Mechanical Effect as if in anticipation of this anthropomorphic side of the subject , rst broached apparently by Maxwell in 1871 at the end of his " " Theory of Heat where he points out that it is only man 's inability to obstruct passively the individual molecules at will that prevents the whole of their energy from available , and shows how sentient agents capable of this could reverse otherwise irrevocable course of diffusion of the energy in a gaseous medium .
Perhaps Thomson 's own most systematic pronouncement on the inner significance of these lelations is a short paper in ' Proc. B. S. Edi date February 1874 .
He points out that the changes contemplated in abstract dynamics are strictly reversible ; while in actual physical phenomena the absence of reversibility is conspicuous , a fact which was already embedded in the principle of dissipation of energy in 1852 .
Now " " the essence of Joule 's discovery that heat is diffused energy is the subjection of physical phenomena to dynamical law Yet if we could reverse all inanimate motion , inorganic nature would unwind again its previous evolution ; " " and if the materialistic hypothesis of life were true , creatures could grow backwards with conscious knowledge of the future but no memory of the past , and would again become unborn .
But the real phenomena of life infinitely transcend human science , and speculation regarding consequences of their ultimate reversal is utterly unprofitable .
Far otherwise , however , is it in respect to the reversal of the motions of matter uninfluenced by life , a very elementary consideration of which leads to the full explanation of this theory of dissipation of energy.\ldquo ; He goes on to explain in graphic terms how an army of Maxwell 's * Also ' Nature , ' vol. 9 , 1874 , pp. 421-424 ; 'Phil .
March 1892 , pp. 291-299 .
Cf .
Helmholtz 's review already quoted , ' Nature , ' vol. 32 , 1885 , 'Wiss .
Abhandlungen , ' vol. 3 , p. 694 .
xlii Obituary Notices of Fellous which was first extended to radiation by PIanck , is calculated to throw additional light , not derivable from formal thermodynamics , on the averaged constitution of the natural radiation which is in equilibrium of emission and absorption with molecular matter .
This digression into the most modern molecular theory has perhaps led us too far .
The very interesting subject of the thermodynamics of radiation is only about twenty years old .
Resting as it does fundamentally on the link with mechanical energy which is afforded by Maxwell 's working pressure of radiation , Lord Kelvin would never admit its validity .
The reason seems to be that he was never able to satisfy himself about any mechanical model of the relation of the atom to the aether that would give a mechanism this pressural interaction between them .
There are those who hold that the physical idea of an electron is sufficiently precise to make the rationale of light-pressure logical and secure .
But Lord Kelvin would not consider it until he could visualise the whole process\mdash ; see it in operation , as he used to say\mdash ; to effect which completely would possibly go deeper than we may ever hope to penetrate ; and this inability cut him off from what some consider to be the most retined and beautiful special development of the science which he founded .
The question naturally arises whether the establishment of the mathematical function that is fundamental for the theory of mechanical energy is not a subtler matter than this mere estimation of : in other modes of investigation a powerful array of the dynamical properties of the medium is introduced .
What becomes of them in the present aspect ?
The answer is that the chance cannot be estimated aright until we know all the conditions , dynamical and other , to which the distribution of molecules is subjected .
The dynamical relations find their place as conditions restricting the possibilities of random distribution .
If through ignorance some of them are overlooked , the chances will be in error ; each new condition that is discovered modifies to some extent the whole process , and thus amends our knowledge .
But this aspect of entropy is quite in keeping with the subjective character , so to speak , of available energy .
Objectively , the dissipation of energy is merely the progress towards an equilibrium .
As regards the purposes of man , whole regions of available energy may exist , of which he is ignorant , because he does not happen to have learned how to use them .
The amount of energy available at a given temperature in a lump of carbon is possibly not et exactly known : the process of turning it into heat before utilising it of course wastes most of it .
Once , however , any slow reversible method of combustion has been discovered , in a voltaic battery for instance , the determination will be possible and may be effected once f'or all .
Or , a hint thrown out by Lord in 1875 , afterwards developed more fully by Gibbs , we may make a rough estimate by applying the CarnotClausius formula to a cycle of which the upper ternperature is that of spontaneous dissociation of the materials .
We can , in fact , ascertain availLord Kelvin .
xliii able energies only for systems which we can reach from a standard one by processes reversible in Carnot 's sense .
Very early in Joule 's investigations 1841 ) on the quantitative equivalence 'of various kinds of , he attacked the problem of the voltaic cell , and his expectation verified , that in many cases the electromotive force was proportional to the thermal value of the chemical action of one Faraday ( equivalent of the reagent materials , provided he employed* " " galvanic arrangements adapted to allow the combinations to take place without any evolution of heat in their own localities He concluded that the condition thus laid down must be departed from in certain observed cases of dis ; crepancy , and Thomson , in 1852 , conducted experiments to detect such local reversible heat .
This principle of Joule was also stated quantitatively later , in a general way , by Helmholtz in the 'Erhaltung der Kraft ' in 1847 .
It lies at the foundation of Thomson 's memoir of December 1851 , " " On the Mechanical Theory of ectrolysis , \ldquo ; whence the restriction above stated , the iabsence of local reversible heat , is quoted .
On this condition the principle lis exact ; and the main point of Thomson 's paper is the calculation , with a wiew to comparison with direct experiment , of the theoretical absolute value of the electromotive of a Daniell 's cell , from Joule 's ents of the heat developed by the combination of an electrochemical equivalent of its materials .
The paper also developed the parallel between chemical energy and mechanical as sources of electromotive force , including deduction by the principle of energy of the force induced by motion of a circuit across a permanent magnetic field .
The further prosecution of the main subject , into cases where local reversible heat is developed ( as evidenced by sensible in electric conditions with temperature ) , remained for Gibbs and Helmholtz twenty-four years afterwards .
In another paper of the same date , on absolute electric measurement , Thomson discusses Joule 's thermal determination of absolute electric resistance ) 1846 , which afterwards proved to be more correct than the earlier values of the ohm .
Most in connexi with modern ideas is an abstract of February 5 , again mainly expounding Joule 's inspiring results and views on the transformations of energy .
Thomson estimates from 's data that about one-thousandth part of the total solar radiation incident on forest land is absorbed usefully by the trees , that the amount recover- able as heat by their combustion .
An intention to discuss these matters in connexion with Carnot 's principle , dealing also with the of the radiation , does not appear to have been fulfilled .
Passing on to animal work , he estimates , after Joule , that as much as one-sixth of the energy of the food consumed can go directly into mechanical power .
Then , relying 'Math .
and Phys. Papers , ' vol. , p. 477 .
, p. 503 : cf. also p. 496 , where , in agreement with Joule , he ascribes the main toae to the work done by evolved gases in expanding ainst the atmospheric pressure .
, p. 505 .
xliv Obituary Notices of Fellows on Carnot 's principle , and Joule 's discoveries regarding the heat of electrolysi* and of electromagnetism , he proceeds to argue that " " it is nearly certain that when an animal works ainst resisting forces , there is not a conversion ofheat into ( mechamcal effect , but the full thermal equivalent of the chemical force is never produced , \mdash ; in other words , that the animal body does not .
act as a thermodynamic and very probable that the chemical forces .
produce the external mechanical effects through electrical means Here he is emerging from the narrower theory of heat to the general of available energy , where heat is not the intermediary towards mechanical power ; and we shall see presently how quickly he ressed in it .
When it is recalled that at the time all this was going on , or immediately after , he was also laying the dynamical foundations of the phenomena of induced electric currents , including , for example , the calculation of the period of the vibrations produced by electric , the activity may well seem unprecedented ; adequate exposition of the results had to fall behind .
The next ( 1855 ) in this series of investigations , the development of the ideas expressed in the extract just quoted , seems to demand special attention , for it is surely less than the laying down of the precise laws of the all-embracing modern science of free or Available Energy .
The evolution of this generalisation can , as it happens , be traced .
The on " " A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism\ldquo ; has been already alluded to .
In it , as everywhere else in Thomson 's dynamical writings , the of the potential energy , used there in the manner of range and Green .
and and Helmholtz , in the sense of a potential of forces , is employed to determine the essential relations between physical properties .
This use of the law of energy as a connecting principle afterwards became the note of Thomson and Tait 's 'Treatise on Natural Philosophy .
' In revising for press a continuation of this magnetic memoir , ' Phil. Mag Apri11855 , where he is engaged in deducing magnetic reciprocal relations in more elementaly fashion by use of a work-cycle , a occurred to him and was embodied in a footnote under date March 26 , which ) will be quoted in full .
* " " It be objected that perhaps the magnet , in the motion carried on as described , would absorb heat and converC it into mechanical effect , and therefore that there would be no absurdity in the hypothesis of a continued development of energy .
This objection , which has occurred me since the present paper was written , is perfectly valid tYainst the reason ' Elec .
and Mag S672 .
In a less definite way this principle had been effective : long before , as the writer is reminded by Mach 's historical account .
Early in 1849 ames Thomson explains that it was his brother 's pointing out to that , on Carnot 's .
principle , water could be frozen isothermally without requiring mechanical work , which set him on to the train of thought that predicted the lowering of the freezing-point by pressure and calculated its amount .
As freezing is accompanied by expansion , a cycle involving freezing at a high pressure and melting at a low , in fact confronted .
him with a perpetual motion , which he to evade .
Lord Kelvin .
xlv assigned in the text for rejecting that hypothesis ; but the second law of the dynamical theory of heat ( the principle discovered by Carnot and introduced by Clausius and myself into the dynamical theory , of which , after Joule 's law , it completes the foundation ) shows ' the true reason for rejecting it , and establishes the validity of the remainder of the reasoning in the text .
In fact the only absurdity that would be involved in admitting the hypothesis that there is either more or less work spent in one part of the motion than lost in the other , would be the supposition that a thermodynamic engine could absorb heat from matter in its neighbourhood , and either convert it wholly into mechanical effect , or convert a part into mechanioal effect and emit the remainder into a body at a higher temperature than that from which the supply is drawn .
The investigation of a new branch of thermo-dynamics , which I intend shortly to communicate to the Royal Society of Edinburgh , shows that the magnet if of netised steel does really experience a cooling effect when its pole is carried from to and would experience a heating effect if carried in the reverse direction .
But the same investigation also shows that the magnet must absorb just .as much heat to keep up its temperature during the motion of its pole with the force , along , as it must emit to keep from rising in temperature when its pole is carried against the force , along The exposition of the new branch of thermodynamics here referred to .appeared in same month , Apri11855 , in the first part of the first volume of the ' Quarterly Journal of Mathematics , ' under the title\ldquo ; On the Thelmoelastic and Thermomagnetic Properties of Matter , Part I which represents the contents of the latter part of the paper , to which the more general introductory matter was probably added .
This paper was reprinted in 'Phil .
Mag January 1878 , with some additional notes .
* The })rinciples that we are now concerned with ocoupy the first few ; the argument is expressed in terms of elastic strain , but that is ously only for convenience of exposition .
The total intrinsic energy of material system , measured from a standard initial configuration and temperature , is defined as a function of its actual configuration and temperature .
It is established from Carnot 's principle , as in the quotation above , that for transformations conducted entirely at the same definite temperature 4 , the mechanical forces applied to the system must be derivable from a work function which represents , in fact , the potential energy acquired by the system in passing at that temperature from the standard uration the actual one .
If denote the simultaneous increment of , then must be the heat taken in from outside that change from the standard configuration , when conducted at the actual temperature .
It is to be observed that this simple consideration , which apparently here .appears in science for the first time , carries the principle of potential energy in its mechanical application right back to Carnot 's principle of 1824 .
In the 'Math .
and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1 , pp. 291-316 .
xlvi Obituary Notices of Fellow.deceased .
previous writings on general potential energy , such as Helmholtz 's ' Erhaltung der Kraft , ' nothing of the kind is hinted at ; while Clausius ' treatment , being restricted to transformation of heat , is nowhere connected up with the general theory of energy .
The first law of Ihermodynamics henceforth drops to more restricted scope , for it merely asserts that available energy when lost is changed into heat in equivalent amount .
Yet it still suffices to maintain the presumption that all energy-processes have their source in\mdash ; are consistent with\mdash ; the ordinary Newtonian principles of dynamics as to ultimate molecules ; considering the difficulty experienced by Thomson in reconciling Joule 's law with his innate conviction of the validity of Carnot 's principle , is not surprising that this inference appealed to him with special Indeed , when the historical conflict between the two laws is kept in min , the value of the first will not be disparaged .
From this point of view principle of Carnot appears in transformed aspect .
Its chief interest is now transferred to the two creative ideas which it contains , the introduction into science ( i ) of the idea of a complete cycle of transformations , and ( ii ) of the criterion of absence of waste of power in any mechanical process , namely , that the process can be reversed , which includes the condition of temperature uniform throughout the system at each instant .
The further development , .
including Carnot 's function and the quantitative determination of the idea of temperature which it brings with it , is the thermal completion of these fundamental principles of the general science of Energetics .
When the illustrious originator of these ideas died in 1832 at the age of 36 he was in possession of the material to complete the train of essential principles , himself .
Thus far we have secured a work-function ( available energy ) for the applied forces at each temperature , of form determinable by direct experiment .
If such a function were known for every temperature , .
knowledge of the mechanical energy relations of the system would be complete .
Thomson accordingly proceeds to connect these functions for adjacent temperatures by means of a Carnot cycle .
In fact , he shows how construct as a function of both the configuration and the temperature , that the same function shall , for each constant temperature , represent the energy then available for work .
The cycle which he employs is quite general , irrespective of the type of configuration for which it is conducted .
In fact , consider any definite change of configuration effected at temperature and annulled at an infinitesimally near temperature , so that no work is done at the two infinitesimal transitions from the one temperature to the other , which complete the cycle .
There will be heat taken in at temperature , and given out at .
temperature , while there will be heat taken in at the upper transition , and given out at the lower , each of the latter heats bein at an average temperature ; also if the configuration is taken to Lord Kelvin .
xlvii be the standard one .
Thus the equation of CarnotClausius leads to which is , in its exact limiting form , Substitution from gives the equivalent forms , ( 6 ) ; ( 7 ) so that , when the temperabre changes as well as the configuration , , ( 8 ) where is the specific heat of the mass at when maintained in the standard configuration .
This latter equation determines the total energy from the mechanical observations giving , which is the work required to pass at temperature from the standard configuration to the actual one .
Conversely , by ( 5 ) , for a particular configuration , , ( 10 ) and , for a constant temperature , , ( 11 ) " " which show how and may be determined for all temperatures from a of the intrinsic energy of the body , and of [ one of ] those functions themselves for a particular temperature The slight correction " " [ one of]\ldquo ; introduced in the Reprint ( 1882 ) is evidence of importance attached by Thomson to this investigation ; yet-it seems to have escaped general appreciation .
On being asked about a year why he had been content with this brief , almost incidental , indication , and had never returned to the exposition of these fundamental quantitative relations of Available Energy , the letter in reply was simply to the effect\ldquo ; Yes ; it is all there ; there is nothiIlg to be added.\ldquo ; The two functions , total energy , and work of available energy , on *The equations are numbered as Thomson 's paper of 1855 ; is here supposed expressed in units of energy , so that the factor is omitted .
In a brief note " " On Thermodynamics founded on Motivity and Energy 'Boy .
Soc. Edin .
, Proc March 21 , 1898 , Lord Kelvin has himself recalled attention to the generality of this paper of 1855 .
xlviii otices of Fellows deceased .
which the complete science of Energy is thus founded , are naturally to be compared with the two functions , energy and entropy , which were made fundamental by Clausius in the very same month , April 1855\mdash ; the tendency of the entropy of a self-contained system to increase being his mode of exact expression by Thomson 's plinciple of dissipation .
In fact , the dis- tinction between the two methods is that Thomson 's function refers primarily to a system fed with heftt so as to remain at constant temperature , while Clausius ' function refers primarily to an isolated system .
The principal operations of chemistry and physics are performed at constant temperature ; thus it is Thomson 's function that is fundamental in the modern science of Energy , been reintroduced by Willard Gibbs as " " the characteristic function at constant temperature and by Helmholtz as " " free energy The entropy is simpler to describe , and also to work with , except when the operations are isothermal ; on the other hand " " free energy\ldquo ; is a direct physical conception connecting up heat-energy in line with all other types of ayailable physical energy , and thus transforming thermodynamics into the universal science of the relations of the statical transformations of Energy , namely , Energetics .
The function entropy seems to have been never employed in Lord Kelvin 's investigations .
As may be inferred from the above , it did not lie directly in his line of , which concerned itself with the physical entities energy and work .
The idea of entropy is so directly ested by his principle of dissipation , and the early mastery of the Carnot-Clausius equation for a reversible cycle in its widest form , which is shown in his theory of phenomena , that it could hardly have ) strange to him ; conceivably he never directly formulated it , because he had , in fact , developed a more directly physical scheme .
It is customary , after Thomson 's own example , to call the relation , as above , the Carnot-Clausius equation .
It would provide the necessary complement to this nomenclature if the equation ( 7 ) , that is , in more usual notation , the equation of energy A available at constant temperature which is now the fundamental principle in chemical physics through the far-reaching applications made by Gibbs , Helmholtz , Va n't Hoff , Nernst , and other investigators , were known as the Thomson equation .
His dominating position is indeed already widely , but not very definitely , recognized .
The question whether Ihomson had prior knowledge of the entropy principle has been matter of some controversy between Clausius and Tait : on the view here taken it is relatively unimportant .
We may now recall in general terms the form of the principle developed into most varied applications by Willard Gibbs , with such power and invention as to constitute him the creator of a new science .
The necessary increase of the entropy function defines the trend of adiabatic transformaLord in .
xlix tion ; the necessary decrease of the available energy function A defines the trend of isothermal tlansformation .
The two functions are immediately connected by noticing that the in the given configuration exceeds , that in the standard guration at the same temperature , hy .
We can render an isothermal transformation adiabatic by including in the system an infinite reservoir of heat at its own temperature , in the manner favoured by Planck : the change of total entropy is that of , so that this function must always increase in an isothermal system .
The reverse transition from adiabatic to isothermal would not be so direct .
In fact , the entropy is the convenient analytical function to employ when the temperature is different in different parts of the system , as is illustrated by the complexity of the calculation ( already conducted in February 1853 , in terms of Carnot 's function ) of the energy available for mechanical effect in such a system when self-contained , *which is mainly of cosmical interest , and has probably drawn attention away from the principles of free energy , though the latter were again emphasised in Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy .
' This analysis of available energy by Thomson had not escaped the notice of Willard Gibbs ( 1876 ) , possibly only in its narrower connexion with elasticity .
" " Such a method is evidently preferable with regard to the directness with which the results are obtained .
The method of this paper shows more distinctly the of and in the theory of equilibrium , and can be extended more naturally to those dynamical problems in which motions take place under the condition of constancy of entropy of the elements of a solid .
just as the other method can be more naturally extended to dynamical problems in which the te rature is constant Gibbs then refers back to a previous ) the wider generality of his own method : its most salient feature is , however , the far wider development , by its author , into the doctrine of the chemical potentials ; of the offstituent substances .
As throwing light on the stage at which scientific had ived a the time Ihomson was thus formulating the general science of Energetics , the following quotation from Helmholtz 's important lecture , ' ' On the Interaction of Natural Forces , delivered first at sberg , February 7 , 1854 , and in which he was the first to refer the replenishment of Solar heat to gravitational shrinkage , \mdash ; is pertinent to our history .
" " Th se consequences of the law of Carnot are , of course , only valid provided that the law when sufficiently tested proves to be universally correct .
In the meantime there is little prospect of the law being proved incorrect .
At all events we must admire the sagacity of Ihomson , who , in the letters of a long-known little mathematical formula which speaks of the heat , volume , and pressure Th , omson , ) .
The calculation of the fillal uniform temperature is in fact based ( p. 556 ) implicitly on constancy of the entropy .
'Scientific Papers of J. Willard Gibbs , ' vol. 1 , p. 204 .
translation ( by Tyndall ) , vol. 1 , 1873 , VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
of bodies , was able to discern consequences which threatened the universe , though certainly after an infinite period of time , with eternal death Later , in 1861 , in writing of the constant surprises that arose in his work on acoustics , and the impression borne in upon him that new results develope themselves in the mind according to laws of their own , so that it seems to be hardly things essentially of his own invention that he is reporting , Helmholtz gests that " " Mr. Thomson must have found the same thing in his own work on the mechanical theory of heat * At the meeting of the Britisb Association at Belfast , in 1874 , Andrews seems to have communicated verbally his results on the critical temperatures of mixed gases\mdash ; only published posthumously in 1886\mdash ; including the fact that the presence of nitrogen increases the quantity of carbonic acid that will evaporate into a given space .
These results strongly attracted the attention of Maxwell , as appears in letters to Andrews of date 1874 and the earlier referring to his own recent construction of Gibbs ' thermodynamic surface ; but it appears most remarkably in a letter to Stokes of date in which he spelled out the whole abstract theory of the conditions of co-existence of two phases in a mixture of tances , exactly in the manner of Gibbs , and , moreover , looked forward to gettin clearer ideas regarding the functions afterwards named by Gibbs the ' potentials ' of the constituents , by applying the method to simple systems .
At that very time Gibbs was preparing for press the profound and exhaustive treatment , over the entire range of known phenomena , and even into others yet unrecognised , which has become a classic in scientific literature .
One other important landmark in the development of Thermodynamics into Energetics is instructive historically .
As Helmholtz afterwards discovered , the importance of the principle of dissipation of energy as the true criterion of chemical reaction was enforced by Lord Rayleigh in a discourse at the Institution in 1875 , S in which , naturally without mathematical development , he pointed out the bearings of the criterion on the problem of solution of salt in water , on the modification by pressure of the equilibrium between carbonic acid gas and chalk , and in imposin a limit with rise of temperature to the combination of oxygen and hydrogen .
In the first quantitative investigation of this kind , communicated to the ' Philosophical Magazine ' in the same year , he calculates how much energy is dissipated by the isothermal mixture of two different gases , on the basis of a result of the kinetic theory .
The conclusion , a very simple one , which immediately attracted the attention of both Maxwell and Gibbs , is , as he explains , verifiable at once by taking of the reversible mode of separation afforded by absorbing one of the gases either by solution or by chemical action : it thus forms a towards the more introduction 'Life , ' p. 205 .
'Scientific Papers of T. Andrews , ' Introduction , .
liv .
Memoir and Scientific Correspondence of Sir G. G. Stokes , ' vol. 2 , p. 34 .
S cientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 240 .
Lord Kelvin .
li by Gibbs of theoretical semi-permeable partitions of various kinds which has since become such a convenient and even practical feature in chemical physics .
Some confusion between the two main modes of deYelopment , that of entropy and that of available energy , to the detriment of the latter , was at one time accentuated by the misunderstanding*of Clausius ' function contained in the earlier editions of Maxwell 's ' Theory of Heat , ' but corrected in the fourth edition ( 1875 ) , where , however , he is still far behind Thomson 's definite position of 1855 , for he sums up with the remark ( p. 193 ) that " " The calculation of the energy dissipated during any process is therefore much more difficult than that of the increase of the total entropy If , however , the researches into the principles of available are , from an abstract and philosophic point of view , the most of Lord Kelvin 's achievements , the practical side of his genius operated more persistently in other ways , example , in connexion with the introduction and establishment of a scientific system of measurement of electrical quantities .
Not only did he enlarge and enforce the advantages of a universal correlated system of units , such as had been developed in the narrower field of the distribution of terrestrial gravity and terrestrial netism by Gauss and Weber because in fact they were indispensable to international co-operation in these subjects : he was also the prime mover in starting those determinations of absolute constants of nature and of numerical relations between the various natural standards , which , repeated and refined by a long line of eminent successors , are now the special care of governments , as affording the universal data on which modern exact engineering is ultimately based .
One of the main incitements to this development of electrical science on an exact basis of practical measurement was doubtless provided by the problem of .
submarine telegraphic communication .
The earliest successful cable between this country and the Continent dates only from 1851 ; and the phenomena which obstructed its speed of working , both the amount of electricity which it took up , owing to its large capacity , before sensible effect could be produced at the other end , and the soakage into the insulating material , had come under the consideration of Faraday .
These difficulties , as well as the mechanical obstacles to laying it , would be far greater in a longer cable ; but already in 185 the funds were forthcoming , owing mainly to the zeal of Cyrus Field , and a cable was laid to America .
Thomson gave the project his strongest support , even becoming a director of the company responsible for the enterprise .
But the methods adapted to signalling through so long a cable had not yet been developed : and mistaken attempts , on the part of those in charge of it , to accelerate the speed of working by feeding it with electl.icity of high tension , led soon to rupture of its insulation .
Next year another cable was laid down and was operated Pointed out by Gibbs in 1873 , 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 62 , footnote .
lii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
successfnlly for a few weeks before it developed a fault .
Thomson had now been given a free hand , and all his force must have been concentrated into through to success the costly enterprise for which he had made himself responsible .
He was now able to put into operation his own ideas : instead of strength or tension of current , he relied on the other alternative , extreme delicacy of the instruments .
At first he utilised , both in and on the later cables of 1865 and 1866 , the galvanometer , adapted into its most sensitive form , by developing the method of Gauss and Weber of very motions of the very minute needle , situated at the centre of a small coil at first arranged on the Gaugain-Helmholtz plan , by the reflexion of a beam of light from it\mdash ; using thus a non-material pointer , as he expressed it , whose length was not subject to limitation from any difficulties relating to weakness or weight or inertia .
In 1870 he replaced this mode of reading signals from the oscillations of a spot of light , by a method which actually wrote the message on paper\mdash ; the famous siphon recorder still employed for cables .
The magnet of his galvanometer had to be very small in order to get it into the cavity of the coil through which the cable-current flowed , so as to be in the most intense field of force relative to its size ; and there was of course a limit to the magnetism it could retain .
It was thus out of the question to attach to it directly the inertia of any writing apparatus .
Thomson therefore reversed the circumstances : it was now the coil that was free to swing , and when the undulations of current passed through it , dead-beat oscillation ensued arising from its being suspended in the narrow concentrated field of a powerful magnet .
In this jrostatic system of signals or effects , as hc- had called it in his early electrometers 1857 mechanical force was capable of increase so long as the power of the accessory could be increased : it was easy to get the magnet strong enough to permit the coil to carry a small siphon filled with ink , which spurted a permanent trace of its own transverse oscillations on an electrified sheet of paper moving thways beneath it .
It may be noted here that in delicate galvanometry , after a long reign of the Thomson type of instrument with reflecting netic needle , the construction has passed over to this heterostatic form , first made convenient for ordinary work by d'Arsonval by the use of a permanent steel met .
In the earlier days some direct measure of the relative magnitudes of currents was oftener needed : but the ress of electric standardising , and the consequent development of exact methods of balancing against such standards , have now made ements so handy and convenient that variation of the scale due to gradual changes in the steel magnet is of little account .
It was perhaps the same necessities , insulation of cables , that led him into exact investigation of the of the electric forces that would sparks across a iven breadth of air or other material ; the ' EIec .
, 310 .
Lord Kelvin .
liii development of the electrometers suitable for this purpose had begun with him very early in his career .
His investigation of the attraction of two mutually influencing spheres had this object in view ; and he has put on record how , about the same time , 1846 or 1847 , he was impressed by finding in the Caveudish manuscripts , then in the hands of Sir W. Snow Harris at Plymouth , his marvellous experimental determination of the capacity of a circular disc as compared with a sphere .
An immediate application of the electrometer , as thus rendered absolute , was to the exact measurement of the voltaic effect of contact between different metals : it was found that connexion a drop of electrolyte annulled the effect , and the meaning of this and related observations remained for long a matter of contl'oversy , perhaps not yet settled .
The continued improvement of standard e]ectrometers , as distinct from mere electroscopes , was also stimulated by his intel.est in the problem of atmospheric electricity , in which he followed up the work of Beccaria .
He was naturally an admirer of the science of the Earth 's magnetism as had been securely founded by Gauss and Weber : he seems to have conceived the aim , by the use of similar methods , namely , the steady collection and discussion of exact observations , of establishing a science of the Earth 's electricity .
The conditions were naturally far more complex : the wide and erratic fluctuations in an unstable phenomenon , such as the electricity of the atmosphere , were very intractable , in comparison with the more steady secular modes of change of the magnetic field of the Earth .
Ihough even yet knowledge of the genesis of thunderstorms is very far from definite , the foundations of what is known are based largely on Thomson 's investigations .
But no increase of mere instrumental sensitivene.ss could have availed to increase the speed of signalling in cables .
The problem of how to obviate the deleterious diffusive effects due to electric capacity of the cable was one for mathematical study , on the methods of Thomson 's own earliest mathematical writings , those of the Fourier Theory of Diffusion of Heat ; for the electric impulse merely diffuses along such a cable , like heat along a bar , instead of being propagated by definite waves .
Already in 1854 the outlines of the theory of the relation of length of cable to speed had been worked out in a correspondence , \mdash ; apparently stimulated by Stokes , though he was always very generous in his acknowledgments , \mdash ; which had only to be fmther developed in order to find the kind of compound electric impulses communicated at one end which would give quickest and most definite observable response at the other end .
Throughout 1856 he insisted on the correctness of his principles , which were indeed mathematically irrefragable , in the ' Athenaeum , ' the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' and elsewhere , and as we have seen he was ately authorised to put them into practice .
* At this time , too , he just touched on the other type of action , that of electrodyhamic induction , in the confusing of the propagation of signals , pointing out *Cf .
' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 2 , pp. 60\mdash ; 111 .
Cf .
also ' Baltimore Lectures , ' Appendix L. liv Obituary Notices of FellonJs deceased .
that in ordinary raphy the alternations did not follow one another with rapidity sufficient to render this effect of practical irnportance .
But with the invention of the telephone , transmitting the far more rapid vibrations of speech , it soon came to the front .
Long afterwards ( 1889 ) in lecturing with keen appreciation on Heaviside 's mathematical prescription , at first sight paradoxical , for removing the difficulties of long-distance telephony simply by interposing suitable inductance coils in the circuit , he reculs to some of his early expel'iences afioat with his associates the Atlantic cable engineers , recounting how they then knew from experience , and understood by reason , that even leakage was a good thing for cable signalling , provided they could have it where it was wanted without the risk of having too much of it .
Thus from about 1857 a main portion of Thomson 's energies became diverted into other channels .
The wonderful flow of new scientific principles , of permanent interest for all time , which was characteristic of the preceding twelve years , and is represented roughly by the first volume of his Collected Papers , is now largely suspended ; his main activity is devoted to the ( in some respects ) more ephemeral , but equally valuable , aim of rendeling available by mechanical appliances , for the purposes of practical life , the thus acquired .
But when the troubles with the cables had been finally surmounted in 1867 , by an experience which had made Thomson a resourceful engineer as well as a physicist , a new outburst of theoretical activity arrived .
Among the most potent causes of the general improvement in physical modes of during the last third of the century , was the appearance , in 1867 , of what then purported to be merely the first volume of the ' Treatise on Natural Philosophy ' by W. Thomson and P. G. 'fait , which has proved to be a turning point in the exposition and expression of physical science , at any rate in this country .
The preparation of this book , which had gone on for some years , induced frequent visits by Thomson to his friend and disciple Tait at Ediuburgh .
other things , this treatise revised the terminology of dynamics , which had been allowed to grow up , in many respects , in forms that retained only historical the impulse thus given , which had indeed already been operating less systematically in the previous years , and was largely due doubtless to his brother James Thomson , has led in the hands of Maxwell , Heaviside , and others elsewhere , to greater attention to the language of science , the introduction everywhere of expressive terms , which react powerfully in inducing clearness of ideas .
Another of the benefits conferred by this work was that it served , in some degree , to focus the scattered fragments of Thomson 's own investigations and those of his associates , and exhibit his scientific method , as exemplified in the subjects covered in this first instalment , which contained general kinematics and dynamics , eneral theory of the potential , and theory of elasticity with extensive geodetic application .
A translation of this book into Gel.man , by Helmholtz and Wertheiln , appeared in .
In a preface , Helmholtz pointed out how it satisfied , in Lord lv very remarkable manner , a most urgent want in higher scientific literature .
Previously there had been no resource but to go to original memoirs , difficult of access even if one knew where to find them ; and on this account the recent of connected mathematical physical thought had been Moreover , as he said , when a worker like Sir William Thomson admits us to participate in the upbuilding of his ideas , exhibits to us the modes of intuition , the guiding threads , which have helped him , by bold combinations of thought , to control and arrange his refractory and entangled materials , the world owes him its highest gratitude .
Helmholtz goes on to contrast the universal outlook of such a book , involving unavoidable lacunae and difficult transitions , with the beautiful precision of the best special treatises of the earlier period .
But the reader who does not spare himself the necessary effort towards mastery reaps an ample reward ; he will find himself trained and equipped for the task of appreciating and extending knowledge , to a degree that he could never have attained from mere passive assimilation of sharply cut formal demonstrations .
Valuable to the same end is the constant endeavour of such a work to employ those mathematical methods that keep close to actuality , are amenable to detailed interpretation ; they are usually much harder , especially at first , than a ordered analytical calculus would be , there remains the permanent gain of direct insight into the processes and relations of nature .
Finally , allusion is made to difficulties encountered by the translators , arising from the originality of the treatment , and the series of new scientific terms that the authors had , in consequence , introduced .
This appreciation , by the most competent living master , set out justly the advantages and defects of Thomson 's method of work .
He never had time to prepare complete formal memoirs .
It was but rarely that his expositions were calculated to satisfy a reader whose interests were mainly logical ; though they were almost always adapted to stimulate the scientific discontent and the further inquiry of students trained towards fresh outlook on the complex problem of reality , rather than to logical refinement and precision in knowalready ascertained .
Each step gained was thus a stimulus to further effort .
This fluent character , and want of definite focus , has been a great obstacle to the appreciation of ' Thomson and Tait , ' as it is still to Maxwell 's ' Electricity , ' for such readers as ask for demonstration , but find only estion and exploration .
There is perhaps nothing that would contribute more at present to progress in physical thought than a reversion , partial at any rate , from the sharp limitation and rigour of some modern expositions to the healthy atmosphere of vistas which usually pervades the work of the leaders in physical discovery .
With increased attention to the inspired original sources of knowledge the functions of a teacher would be more than ever riecessary , to point to the paths of ress and to contrast the effectiveness of different routes , as well as to restore valuable aspects which drop away in formal abstracts ; science would thus adhere to the form of a body of improving doctrine rather than a collection of complete facts .
lvi Obituary Notices of Fellows Readers of the 'Life of Helmholtz ' will recognise how fruitful for knowledge was the intimate lifelong friendship between these two greatest investigators of the age .
The ' Erhaltung der Kraft ' of 1847 became known to Thomson about five years later , and he is insistent on the benefit conferred on British science by the appearance of a translation some years after in Taylor 's ' Scientific Memoirs .
' It was in August 1858 , about the time Thomson 's invention was perhaps at its hest development , that they first met .
Thomson had written from Kreuznach urging Helmholtz to attend the British Association in September ; he remarked that his presence would be one of the most interesting events of the meeting , and added the plea that he looked forward with the greatest pleasure to an opportunity for makinghis acquaintance such as he had ired ever since the ' Erhaltung der Kraft ' had come into his hands .
A few days later Helmholtz called on him , and reports as follows to his I expected to find the man , who is one of the first mathematical physicists in Europe , somewhat older than myself , and was not a little astonished when a very juvenile and exceedingly fair youth , who looked quite irlish , came forward .
He had taken a room for me close by , and made me fetch my 's from the hotel , and put up there .
He is at Kreuznach for his wife 's health .
She appeared for a short time in the evening , and is a and intellectual lady , but in very bad health .
He far exceeds all the reat men of science with whom I have made personal acquaintance , in intelligence and lucidity and mobility of thought , so that I feel quite wooden beside him sometimes .
As we did not get nearly all we wanted to say yesterday , I hope you will let me stay over to-day at Kreuznach A record the personal impression produced at this period , when he was not much known in London , on so close an observer of character as Thackeray , occurs in the recently published correspondence of the essayist Dr. John Brown of Edinburgh ; it will supplement the above more scientific appreciation .
Thackeray had been making one of the earliest of his tours , and had gone on from Glasgow to Edinburgh .
Dr. Brown writes in humorous vein to Lord 's relative , Miss Crum , on November 11 , .
" " . .
He ( Thackeray ) was delighted with your Thomson ; he said he was an angel and better , and must have wings under his flannel waistcoat .
I said he had , for I had seen them In later years ] ) .
Brown seems to have made a point of sending to his friend reports of Lord Kelvin 's public appearances .
It is to be remembered that Heimholtz 's early professorial work was physiology , it continued to be until 1857 , when as a by-product of his acoustical researches the memoir on Vortex Motion appeared , one of the most brilliant results of mathematical genius of all time .
It seems to have been about ten years later that Thomson 's attention was definitely arrested by this memoir ; on watching Tait experiment on the rebound of 'Life , ' igsberger , Miss Welby 's translatior ] , Lord Kelvin .
ivii smoke rings in air after collision , the theoretical ation of material atoms which is afforded by vortex rings in a perfect fluid medium is said to have leaped into view .
Great mathematical activity at once ensued .
The fundamental memoir of Helmholtz reappeared translated by Tait in 1867 , and Thomson 's development of vortex theory , in which the principles , proved by the rigorous abstract analysis of Helmholtz , were worn down to the current coin general ideas relating to circulation and vorticity and cyclic motions generally , appeared in 'Trans .
S. Edin .
' ( pp. 217-260 ) in .
So great was the insight into the underlying world of individual molecules that Thomson thought might arise from the development of this vortex analogy , that at one period he is said to have grudged all the that was not devoted to its study .
His papers and miscellaneous 1-otes on vortex motion have not yet been collected ; they contain many tours de force and some of his very hardest thinking .
Nowadays nobody imagines that the molecules of matter are merely vortex rings , and it is doubtful whether Thomson ever thought they were so in any strict literal sense ; but his uage was certainly calculated to leave that impression , and for years the fascination of that view prevailed .
What is equally certain is that the vortex theory has been a beacon in the of the physics of molecules ; such other illustrative theories as have been helpful in this direction have been its lineal descendants , so that points of view now stand out as legitimate and illuminating which before the days of the vortex theory could hardly have been conceived precisely at all .
At Easter , 1864 , Helmholtz paid a visit to the Thomsons at Glasgow , with impressions recorded in a letter to his wife .
* ' ' I have seen a quantity of new and most ingenious apparatus and experiments , which have made the two days very interesting .
He thinks so rapidly , however , that one has to get at the necessary information about the make of the instruments , etc. , by a long string of questions , which he shies at .
How his students understand him , without keeping him as strictly to the subject as I ventured to do , is a puzzle to me ; still there were numbers of students in the laboratory , hard at work , and apparently quite understanding what they were about The recreation of yachting , by which Thomson was wont to recruit his energies in summer , reacted naturally towards the improvement of nautical affairs .
His dynamical instinct , and experience in the invention of delicate instruments , found a field in placing the ship 's compass on a scientific basis .
The heavy cumbrous magnets swinging on pivots under unsuitable conditions were replaced by the well-known systems of needles , delicately suspended yet insensitive to shock , so small that the iron masses compensating for the magnetisn ] of the ship could be effectively introduced in moder size .
Again , by the use of steel wire he worked up the modern method of taking reliable soundings from a ship in motion , the depth being calculated from the compression of the air in a narrow glass tube attached to ' Life , ' , p. 233 .
lviii Obituary Notices of the sinker .
BUD the most remarkable feat in this domain was the thorough practical mastery of the complicated phenomena of the tides , achieved mainly under his direction , and in the invention about 1876 of simple automatic mechamsm for performing all the laborious calculations of tidal harmonic ] ysis , both direct and erse .
The tides are controlled by the Sun and Moon , and so repeat themselves very closely in periods of nineteen years .
But there is another far more fundamental and instructive way of them .
To every periodic ( simple harmonic ) component in the motion of either Sun or Moon to the Earth , there corresponds component of the same periodic time in the tide produced by them at any place , and there are no other components ; yet to calculate their amounts .
directly with the existing contours and depths of the ocean would be a problem practically impossible .
The method of harmon ic analysis , as first initiated in this subject on a much smaller scale by Laplace , allows us to .
deduce , from a tidal record for a sufficient length of time , the amplitudes and phases of these harmonic components of known periods ; and when the more important ones have been thus determined , the prediction of future tides becomes a matter of merely up the harmonic constituents , no matter how complex the physical conditions at the place in question may be , as they are umchanging .
All this and much more can now be done by the machines invented by Lord Kelvin and his brother , *though o to the preliminary imperfection of construction of the analysing machine it is at present found to be safer and not very troublesome to detern-ine the amplitudes .
of the components by calculation .
This achievement\mdash ; the complete mastery of the tides by means most simple but adequate\mdash ; is perhaps the reatest triumph of the method of Fourier , which has always been one of the advances most admired by Lord Kelvin in modern physical mathematics .
After this success , it wa natural to apply the same method of harmonic analysis to phenomena , including the atmospheric electricity which he had ated many years before , which also are controlled by Solar influence ; but here the problem has proved not to be so feasible , the definite periodic components being so mixed up with the erratic results of meteorological instabilities that , not much has yet come out of the effort .
In later years Helmholtz paid many holiday visits at Largs and enjoyed the yachting expeditions , which provided a refuge for him from the attacks of hay fever .
In 1871 the two friends studied the theory of waves which Thomson " " loved to treat as a kind of race between us It was shortly before that Thomson had broken new ground ested by observations from his becalmed yacht , on the theory of capillary ripples , and on the waves produced by wind and current , treated in two letters to Tait intended for the Royal Society of .
In later years the latter subject was discussed in much more detail and developed in directions by Helmholtz , with view to atmospheric applications .
*See Thomson and 's ' Not .
Phil ed. 2 , Appendices .
Cf .
' Baltimore Lectures , Appendix , and Prof. Lamb 's ' Hydrodynamics .
' Lord Kelvin .
lix On board the yacht Helmholtz reports*that " " It was all very friendly and unconstrained .
Thomson presumed so much on his intimacy , with them that he always carried his mathematical notebook about with him , and would to calculate in the midst of the company if occurred to him , which was treated with a certain awe by the party .
How would it be , if I accustomed the Berliners to the same proceeding ?
The subject of fluid dynamics in all its branches had always great attractions for Lord Kelvin , doubtless in part owing to his association with the naval architects of the Clyde during the modern evolution of ship-building ; applications to the resistance to the motion of ships , the phenomena of waves and wakes , propulsion by screws , and such like , were never far from his thoughts .
Even in his latest years he continued to write abstruse mathematical papers on theoretical hydrodynamics with an energy and facility which were the wonder of younger men .
It was in the prosecution of this subject of the reactions of moving liquid on immersed solids , that one of his most daring developments arose , such as perhaps would hardly have occurred to a mathematician more circumspect about his formal logic .
This was the application straight off , in Thomson and Tait ( 1867 ) , of the generalised dynamical method to the dynamics of solids immersed in liquid , which proceeded by entirely the liquid once the formula for the total energy had been determined in terms of the motion of the solids .
It seems that Lord , and afterwards Boltzmann , had early called his attention to the need for verification of this procedure ; and in the German translation ( 1871 , p. 294 ) a proof by means of the Principle of Least Action , on lines that had been suggested by Boltzmann , is supplied by Thomson himself .
Kirchhoff had already dealt with an extension of one of Thomson 's special problems in illustration , in a somewhat similar manner in In a footnote Thomson promises with characteristic confidence that ) second volume of the ' ' ( which was never prepared will contain a complete discussion , on the of Hamilton 's principle , of the dynamics of cyclic motion .
Something of this appeared later in the ' Phil. Mag. ' A oing treatment ultimately came in the second edition of Ihomson and Tait in 1879 , but the foundation on Hamilton 's principle was dropped .
The theory of the elimination of co-ordinates , such as those of the individual particles of the fluid\mdash ; Ignoration of Co-ordinates , as he called it\mdash ; Life , ' p. Abhandlungen , ' p. 176 .
But in a paper on " " The Motion of Free Solids through a Liquid 'Proc .
R. S. Edin 1870-1 , reprinted as an Appendix to 'Baltimore Lectures , ' 1904 , Thomson starts off by quoting from bis private journal , of date January 6 , 1858 , the equations of 'Eulerian ' type of the motion of a solid in liquid , expressed by the principles of momentum in terms of the six components of the translational and rotational impulse of the motion , which are themselves as gradients of the lnction expressing the kinetic energy .
This idea of 'impulse ' was developed formally in the .
on Vortex Motion of 1868 .
Cf .
Prof. 's ' Hydrodynamics .
' lx Obituary Notices of Fellows opened up , when thus generalised , an entirely new domain in the application of dynamics to general physics .
In the ordinary Lagrangian dynamics the masses of which it treats are characterised by configuration and inertia ; on the wider theory , they may also possess permanent momenta of spinning or other cyclic motions .
By introducing this third endowment the horizon of physical application and dynamical elucidation is obviously very widely extended .
The theory had been already published independently by outh in 1877 , in his Adams Essay on ' Stability of Motion , ' in more perfect form than Thomson 's ; for he had reduced the analysis into dependence on a single function , which he called the modified rangian function of the system .
The translation of the general theory , as thus compactly expressed , into relation with the principle of action and general Hamiltonian dynamics , was not difficult.* At a later date ( March 1884 ) Helmholtz got into the same subject , the modified Lagrangian function , in a series of papers on the Statics of Monocyclic and Polycyclic Systems , with application primarily to concealed cyclic motions such as might illustrate one possible aspect of the latent thermal ener.(y-y in amics , or perhaps rather of the intra-molecular part of it .
His treatment , which was identical with Routh 's , culminated in a beautiful memoir in ' Crelle 's Journal ' ( 1886 ) on the physical nificance of the principle of Least Action , in the course of which the idea of reciprocal theorems introduced by him long before in connection with acoustical problems , and developed in other directionls more particularly by Lord Rayleigh and Maxwell , was placed on the widest foundation , a manner which , however , was familiar to Hamilton himself in his own nal'rower physical range .
Another classical problem in mathematical physics in which new developments were included in the second edition ( 1883 ) of Thomson and Tait was that of the forms of a steadily mass of gravitating fluid .
Thus S 778 : During the fifteen years which have passed since the publication of our first edition we have never abandoned the problem of the equilibrium of a finite mass of rotating incompressible liquid .
Year after , questions of the multiplicity of possible figures of equilibrium have been almost incessantly before us , and yet it is only now , under the compulsion of finishing this second edition of the second part of our first volume , with hope .
a second volume abandoned , that we have succeeded in finding anything approachin on the subject Then follow eleven propositions , stated without proof , arranging in most ingenious manner the known forms , so as to trace the order of transition between the successive configurations of stable and unstable steady motion , as the circumstances are gradually .
In fact the problem was left ready its next stage of development which came two years later ( 1885 ) in Poincare 's classical in which , building on the stationary property of the modified function or kinetic potential , the transitions between stabilities and instabilities in steady motion were made amenable to processes of *Cf .
' Proc. London Mat .
Soc March 1884 .
Lord Kelvin .
lxi continuous graphical representation .
For the subsequent developments by Sir G. H. Dalwin and others , important on problems of cosmical evolution , reference may be made to the last chapter of Prof. Lamb 's ' Hydrodynamics .
' The evolutionary and tidal problems treated near the end of the original edition had in fact meanwhile been made his own by G. H. Darwin , so that it was natural that his assistance should be sought to bring the new edition up to the existing state of knowledge .
In particular in an appendix , Part II , pp. 505-17 , his beautiful , raphical discussion of the secular effects of tidal friction is reproduced .
The problem as to whether the waste of energy by terrestrial tidal friction came from the Earth or the had been given up long before by Airy as intractable , a decision which , however , stimulated J. Purser , a close friend of Lord Kelvim and of his brother , to its definite and concise solution by combining the necessary conservation of the angular momentum with the frictional diminution of the mechanical energy .
* The graphical treatment of the subject on the basis of these two relations had it seems been suggested by Lord Kelvin , with results which in Darwin 's hands ( 1879 ) originated a new branch of astronomy , the dynamical t.heory of the evolution of planetary systems .
This discussion of cyclic systems , when energy is dissipated through friction , led also to the fundamental distinction between ordinary and secular stability .
" " The gyrostatic forces which we now proceed to consider may co1nvert instability into stability as in the gyrostat [ with two degrees of there no sipativity , but when there is any dissipativity , gyroscopic forces may convert rapid falling away from an unstable nfiguration into falling by ( as it were ) exceedingly gradual spirals , but they cannot convert instability into stability It would seem that one of the main vments that go to the making of a mechanical engineer is an acquired sense of the inertia of matter , an instinctive feeling of what may be expected of great moving masses and the limits within which they may be controlled , whether they are ships straining on their cables , or fly-wheels whose normal function is in rather than disturbing motion .
This gift , which differs from the faculty of formal dynamical calculation as the instinct of a yeon ( liffers from the trials of a wanderer finding his way with a compass , was possessed in supreme degree by Lord Kelvin .
It seems , in fact , to have been reserved for him to invent a distinctive name for the principle of rotatory momentum , of which beginningB were already known to Newton though the bearings of the constancy of rotatory momentum in a self-contained system gradually came out into clearer light in the hands of his successors .
It was expounded by d'Alembert how the spin of the Earth on its axis kept the direction of that axis fixed , except as regal'ds the preoessional motion definitely due to the ' Brit. Assoc. RepoIt , ' Belfast , 1874 , pp. 22-24 .
Thomson and Tait , Edit .
2 , .
also Lanlb 's ' ' 19 lxii Obituary Notices of Fellows torque of solar and lunar attraction on the equatorial protuberant matter\mdash ; just as the tYing weight of a top produces precession of its axis round the vertical .
The famous corollary seemed comparatively new when Laplace developed it , that it is possible to determine a plane of reference \mdash ; his invariable plane , so called\mdash ; in the Solar system , which must remain absolutely fixed in direction throughout all time , that namely of the resultant rotatory momentum .
But instead of rotatory momentum these writers were accustomed to speak of rate of description of areas , in extension of the language of Kepler and Newton which was appropriate enough to a single planet travelling round the sun .
When , however , we pass from the discrete planets of astronomy to the continuous spinning solids of dynamics , this terminology is nearly as unwieldy as the mathematical formulas themselves , and , vorst fault of all , is quite estive .
Though Poinsot 's reform of procedure in statics , by introducing the idea of a couple or torque alongside that of a force , had undoubtedly much to do with the result , the dynamics of rotation began to assume a far more tractable form when expressed in terms of the incisive developed in 1867 in Thomson and Tait 's Natulal Philosophy .
' The remark of Helmholtz on the difficulty of translation of the new terms in ) German edition may be recalled .
This dynamical instinct was not content to rest with a reconstitution in more formal terms of the principles of rotatory motion .
To cultivate dynamical ideas further by actual acquaintance with the rotatory inertia of spinning masses , Thomson converted Foucault 's gyroscope into a gyrostat , which may be considered as a fly-wheel with rapid spin impressed on it , isolated and protected inside a frame or case so that it could be manipulated in many ways , while this rotatory momentum would in the absence of friction remain a permanent static possession , effectively of the very essence of the gyrostatic system .
The stiffness as ards direction , as shown by the resistance that such a body opposes to merely altering its orientation in space , ) ened up a new and fascinating domain in dynamics .
In the second edition of Thomson and Tait ( 1881 , p. 396 ) , a section is introduced , with diagrams , illustrating some of the extraordinary ways in which these gyrostats can stand , balanced on an edge and in other strange positions , and refuse to stand in positions which are easily assumed by masses devoid of the concealed rotatory momentum .
Such phenomena were to acquire fundamental philosophical significance in more than one direction , including the introduction of permanent latent ions into general dynamical theory referred to above , and the yrostatic model of an optical aether which will be described presently .
As experimental illustrations of the perverse effects of internal spin , } , yrostats were already of long standing , and their ious behaviour constituted one of the puzzles that greeted visitors to the laboratory at Glasgow .
Already during his visit at Easter 1864 , Helmholtz reports home to his wife an experience which illustrates another of the case .
" " Thomson 's experiments , however , did for my new hat .
He had throwlt iron hammer , but the disc resented this , and it flew off in one direction and the iron foot on which it was revolving in another , carrying my hat away with it and ripping it up In 1865 , the principles of clock escapements and compensations began to occupy Thomson 's attention , and after many efforts he reported to the Royal Society in 1869 on a standard astronomical clock which he had constructed , with strict attention to dynamical principles , and erected on a firm foundation in the hall of his house at the University of Glasgow , where it still remains .
It does not appear that the promised future reports on the performance of this type of clock as compared with the usual observatory clocks were ever made .
But long subsequently , in an address delivered at Manchester on watch and chronometers , adverted , with some dissatisfaction , to the fact that for the customary expenditure of a few shillings , one could only procure a watch which with ordinary rough treatment would keep time to one part in ten thousand , or perhaps , with care , one in a hundred thousand .
He had communicated to the Royal Society in 1856 a formal memoir on another subject which occupied much of his later thought , the Mathematical Theory of Elasticity ; in this paper the kinematic analysis is of very general lype ; but doubtless one of the aims was to reform and purify the theory by basing the subject on the appropriate thermodynamic function , the free or Available Energy , which had been established by him the year before supra , .
xlvii ) , as the proper physical expression of Green 's mathematical principle .
This was followed in 1863 by a mathematical application , difficult for that time , to the stresses excited by rotation in elastic spheroids and in shells containing incompressible perfect liquid , with a view to the bearing of the results on the question of the rigidity and constitution of the Earth as tested by the amount of astronomical precessiorz and nutations .
This application belonged to the geological and evolutionary part of his work , and also included considerations relating to shift of the Earth 's axis , and the change of the length of the day owing to tidal and other causes ; it was reprinted in 1878 , but with corrections from the criticism of Newcomb and others , who had persuaded the author that he had actually himself underestimated the directional persistance of the rotating fluid interior .
In a Presidential Address to Section A of the British Association , Glasgow , 1876 , an account was given of this pre-occupation with the Earth 's rotation and rigidity , precession and nutation , tides and monsoons , meltings of polar ice , etc. The opening of this Address express his vivid impression of all that he had just seen in a visit to the Philadelphia Exhibition ( followed in later years by numerous other Transatlantic visits ) of the great undertakings in organised scientific work that were being carried through in America .
He includes a description of his experience with the telephone , then nascent , lxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows which excited his admil.ation ( as it did that of Helmholtz ) as a practical and definite embodiment of the fundamental doctrine which was illustrated in another phase by his own tidal developments\mdash ; the Fourier harmonic anaJysis of oscillatory motion .
Since his return from America the criticism of Newcomb , above mentioned , had focussed his thoughts .
As he explained in the Address , he had not yet begun in 1862 to ponder over the stabilities of vortices and other configurations of spin .
The state of the case regarding terrestrial physics , as now amended , is shortly this:\mdash ; " " The hypothesis of a perfectly rigid crust aining liquid violates physics by assuming preternaturally rigid matter , and violates dynamical astronomy in the solar semi-annual and lunar fortnightly nutations ; but tidal theory has nothing to say against it .
On the other hand , the tides decide against any crust flexible enough to perform the nutations correctly with a liquid interior , or as flexible as the crust must be , unless of preternaturally rigid matter The results of the mathematical investigation on the precession of a hollow spheroid filled with liquid , which thus restricted argument to rapid nutations , were given in the Address , but his analysis has apparently never been published , though other investigators have since supplied the want .
Passing on to the free of the terrestrial pole and the consequent slight changes in latitude , he insists that notwithstanding that Peters and Maxwell and others could find at that early time no periodic effect , yet the irregular changes that were noted must be in part real , because existing meteorological causes such as winds , the melting of polar ice , etc. , are competent to produce displacement of from one-twentieth to one-half of a second of arc .
He goes on to consider the tides resulting from such a displacement of the Earth 's axis , which are quite sensible ; in fact , their periodic components have since been sought for in the tidal records .
He decides ainst Che occurrence in past time of vast four hundred metre ' tides urring in three or four hundred days , such as would be started by a geological convulsion inyolving sudden evation of oue octant of the Earth by about that amount with subsidence of other ions ; but he then saw no reason why the polar axis should not have gradually travelled in the course of ages , in close company with the axis of inertia , through many rees to its present position .
This remarkable Address closes with a consideration of the causes of a possible diminution of the Earth 's period of rotation such as Lunar Theory seemed to demnnd ; it was some time later that he detected unexpectedly a quite sensible them ) odynalnici acceleration due to the diurnal of the barometer behind the .
But in brief abstract it is quite impossible to summarise these activities .
The 1eport of this lTeetin , ( 1876 ) records merely the title of a paper ' Physical xplanation of the erel Sky , ' which went on lines now familiar in , namely , interfacial wavection due to cross currents rubbiu over one another .
He also reported on his astron omical clock lxiu ) still hope , but results been delayed ) choice of and constructiou for Lord Kelvin .
lxv : the compensated pendulums .
At this very brilliant meeting of the British Association he read no less than eleven papers on the most varied subjects , and a long analytical report on tidal observations , not to mention other papers and reports partly inspired by him , in addition to the Presidential Address above quoted .
One of his striking mathematical achievements of a later date ( the vortex ' motion period ) was the demonstration that when a hollow ellipsoid of revolution filled with perfect liquid is set into bodily rotation , the motion of the liquid is stable only when the cavit of the oblate kind .
In illustration of this prediction he had hollow gyrostats made , which by aid of some skill could be set spinning bodily along with their liquid contents ; the oblate one behaves as an ordinary gyrostat , but the prolate one , as soon as the orientation or the steady maintaining torque of the spinning cord is altered , makes a few violent wriggles and subsides by turbulent break up of the rotation of the liquid , which occurs the more rapidly the greater the spin it has acquired .
In the later years , in pursuance of elastic theory , much attention was devoted to the early view of optical double refraction and reflexion which ascribes to the aether the vibratory properties of a solid body .
These properties were exactly specifiable as above by the function representing available energy , in the manner first employed by Green , to whom was due the first definite idea that the function provided the criterion of the precise amounb of complexity that it was permissible to introduce in continuous elastic phenomena .
For many years Thomson struggled hard , in successive papers full of brilliant subsidiary results , to bend somehow the elastic solid theory so that it might be forced into compliance with the very various conditions imposed by the optics of both isotropic and crystalline media .
Sometimes he seemed to come near to success .
But success was achieved only when he cast aside the idea of solid elasticity , and betook himself to the help of the anomalous elastic reaction belonging to his gyrostats , in the form of resistance to rotation rather than deformation .
But it is of no use to this end merely to build up a model of a medium filled with spinning flywheels ; the reaction to rotation would then be too complex .
Each such flywheel is dynamically a directed element ; if their axes are distributed at random , their primary effects cancel each other , while if there is a preponderance of the axes to any side , what they illustrate is a directed physical influence on the medium , of the same sort as ( but not identical Faraday 's influence of magnetisation on light .
To simulate pure static elasticity by means of a gyrostat , it is necessary to arrange that a rotatory displacement produces a restoring tOrque directly proportional to the displacement , instead of to its velocity .
The solution of the problem , mentioned earlier in the same year to the Electrical Engineers ( infra ) , was explained in a communication in the Rendus , September 16 , 1889 , " " On a Gyrostatic Adynamic Constitution for ' Ether , ' \ldquo ; he opstraints on the framework , itself lxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
of the original Foucault gimbal type , that are necessary to make the static angular momentum of a gyrostat react in this simple way , would require some space to describe ; for Lord Kelvin 's dynamical nomenclature has brought non-mathematical explanation into effective grasp , it can never be quite easy .
It may suffice to say that just the same device allows a hori- zontal spinning flywheel to steady the rolling of a boat , by introducing a restoring torque of direct elastic type proportional to the angular deviation from the vertical .
The result thus reached in the elastic theory of the aether had been , however , in the abstract sense anticipated .
This type of medium , operating by rotational stiffness arising from intrinsic internal rotation , was , in fact , a mechanical model of a mathematical aether intro duced into optics nearly fifty years before by , but repudiated at the time , except by , on the very ground that it behaved in a way that an elastic solid could not do .
By a mathematical aether is here meant a specified by its potential energy function alone , without any attempt at mechanical model of the detailed working of the medium that is thus completely determined mathematically in the form of that function .
The gyrostatic model is also identical , in the same mathematical sense , with the electrodynamic aether of Clerk Maxwell .
In this way it has come to pass that by making a model , with ordinary matter , of an elastic medium that not the properties of ordinary matter , Lord Kelvin has vindicated to many , if not entirely to his own , the power and cogency of the impalpable procedure of mathematical analysis which can reach away without effort from the actual to the theoretically possible , and thus , for example , make a mental picture of an aether which is not matter for the simple reason that it is something antecedent to matter .
This may be taken to be a partial view , so it is well to offer direct support of it by a quotation from the Presidential Address of January 10 , 1889 , to the Institution of Electrical Engineers , an address which one may venture to think was equal in fundamental physical suggestion to any of the great achievements of his early years:\mdash ; " " So that I do not admit that it is only playing at theory , but it is helping our minds to think of possibilities , if by a model , however rough and impracticable , we show that a structure can be produced which is an incompressible frictionless fluid when no gyrostatic arrangement is in it , and which acquires peculiar gyrostatic elasticity or rigidity as the effect of introducing the gyrostats into these squares Later on he proceeds:* ' ' Thus , upon this solid , the effect of a constant couple is not to produce continued rotation , but to produce and balance a constant displacement , and that balance may last for any time , however long , if the rotational moment of momentum of the flywheel is but great The last sentence implies the essential limitation of the model .
This persistence of the steady balance demands continually increasing ular displacement of the axis of the gyrostat , so that it could * math .
and Phys , Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 509 .
Lord Ketvin .
lxvu not last for ever without some mechanism for recovery of direction ; but if the moYements are restricted to be vibratory or merely alternating , the model is adequate , and by taking its rotational momentum to be great enough the period of the alternation may be made as slow as may be desired , even so as to include an analogy of the cyclic field of a magnet lasting permanent for any assigned time .
The two immense branches of profound physical investigation , optical and electrical science , thus meet and fuse together .
Their approach can be conducted in two ways ; it may proceed from the side of optics by the method of MacCullagh , with its self-consistency finally justified by Lord Kelvin 's model , when that method is expanded so as to include the applica- tion to disturbances of the aether that are not simply vibratory ; or it may proceed , as it did historically , from Maxwell 's invention of a mathematical aether capable of for electric phenomena , by the mathematical verification that its vibratory properties are exactly those of light and radiation .
The rotational rigidity of aether , thus illustrated , did not , however , console Lord Kelvin , for he could not see how bodies can be free to move through the medium .
It is true that he puts it that he does not see why magnets attract each other and electrified bodies attract each other ; but it is really the mechanism of the free mobility that he is in quest of , for the forces are determinate by the principles of dynamics , and could not be otherwise , whatever kind of mobility there might be .
the Address just mentioned , quoting from his paper of 1847 on an elastic solid analogy , he states with reference to its last sentence ( supra , , written as he remarks days after he had taken up the duties of his professorship at Glasgow:\mdash ; " " As to this sentence I can now say , what I said forty-two years ago\mdash ; must be reserved to a future paper .
I may add that I have been considering the subject for forty-two years\mdash ; night and day for forty-two years .
the subject has been on my mind all these years .
I have been trying many days and many nights to find an explanation , but have not found it But he adds in a footnote a reference to a paper just written , May in which the lacuna is filled .
There in Sec. 47 , p. 465 , in explaining the limitations of this aether , rotationally elastic in a way which can be illustrated but need not be specified , he adds : " " All this essentially involves the consideration of ponderable matter permeated by , or imbedded in , ether , and a tertium quid which we may call electricity , a fluid go-between , serving to transmit force between ponderable matter and ether , and to cause by its flow the molecular motions of ponderable matter which we call heat .
I see no way of suggesting properties of matte of electricity , or of ffiher , by which all this , or any more than a very slight approach to it , can be done , and I think we must feel at present that the triple alliance ether , electricity , and ponderable matter is rather a 'Math .
Phys. Papers , ' vol. 3 , pp. 450-465 , lxviii Obituary Notice.of Fellows deceased .
result of our want of knowledge and of capacity to imagine beyond the limited present horizon of physical science , than a reality of nature Looking back on this , however , one can see that the electron was not far off .
These models , it can be held , now us further .
Clearly if we could explain how one single atom is freely mobile through the aether , everything would be achieved ; but the atom must be an ion and carry an electric field with it .
There exists , it may be maintained , a satisfactory representation of how this electric field can travel in indissoluble attachment to a central nncleus\mdash ; the whole arrangement called in 1894 an electron .
But of the nature of the nucleus little more is yet ascertained , except that it is almost certainly isotropic as it was natural to assume , and can thus be representable as } its influence at a sufficient distance by a spherical collocation of electricity ; for all ordinary purposes of electrodynamics it remains , as then , a point-charge .
Mathematical analysis is the all-powerful resource that gets behind and away from all accidents of models and modes of visualisation in which our experience is necessarily set , back to the 'callow principles ' as George Herbert called them .
But however instructive it may be to revise our knowledge by its expression in terms of pure concepts free of all gross material implication , it seems safe to assert that it could never have been reached , in either of the ways mentioned above , without constant preoccupation , mental or tangible , with the modes of working of dynamical models and illustrations .
It has been mentioned already ( .
xlii ) that Lord Kelvin 's difficulties in representing radiation-pressure , with such models of electrons as he clung to , prevented him from appreciation of the modern thermodynamics of natural radiation .
A recent attempt to persuade him to look into matter elicited the following characteristic reply , in autograph , of date May 8 , 1907 There are certainly very wonderful ' push and pull ' forces in the action of light on movable bodies in high vacuum ( and also in not very vacuum , as shown in Varley 's communication to Royal Society ' Proceedings ' of about 1871 , demonstrating cathode torrent of negatively ' electrified particles ) .
I do not , however , think that there is any foundation for push and pull in Maxwell 's formulae , or in the of your leaves .
There is great innportance in all such experiments as those of Hull to which you refer , and those of Crookes at various times , and those of J. T. B. , of which we are now hearing , of Dewar 's which I believe he is to show this evening .
Great revelations are , I believe , coming early .
Yours very truly , Kelvin.\mdash ; I hope to continue this verbally when I see you in the evening J. T. Bottomley , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc March 18 , 1907 , on localised radiometer repulsions between the gold leaves of electroscopes , etc. Sir J. Dewar , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc June 27 , 1907 , on the lower limit to the action of the radiometer .
Lord Ketvin .
lxix In 1884 Sir W. Thomson delivered the well-known course of lectures on Molecular Dynamics and the Wave Theory of Light at Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , after attending the meeting of the British Association at Montreal .
The papyrograph unrevised report issued in December , 1884 , by Mr. A. S. Hathaway , may justly be said to have reawakened , or at any rate strongly intensified , interest in the ultimate form of the problem of aether and radiation , both in this country and abroad .
It seems fair to say also that the interest and value of the lectures arose largely from the unpreparedness their author .
As his audience of American physicists fed him from day to day with the more recent experimental and theoretical results relating to selective absorption , which were largely new to him , they had before them the spectacle , on which Helmholtz had laid stress , of one of the great minds of the century struggling with fresh knowledge and trying to assimilate it into his scheme of physical explanation , calling up all his vivid store of imagery and analogy to aid .
His auditors at the lime , and his readers afterwards , thus must have ( , onsidered the lacunae and difficulties as their own personal problems in which they were assisting .
Perhaps no exposition in physical science so vivid and tempting has ever been published ; and for many years afterwaxds scientific activity in these subjects was strongly tinged by the Baltimore lectures , which transformed optics for the time from an affair of abstract mathematical equations into a subject of direct physical contemplation in close touch and analogy with the objective manifestations of ordinary dynamics .
In the preface to the authoritative edition of 1904 , which in the twent .
years ' interval had grown to be a volume of some 700 pages octavo , Lord Kelvin in fact describes the object of course of lectures as follows:\mdash ; " " I chose as subject the Wave Theory of Light with the intention of accentuating its failures , rather than of setting forth to junior students the admirable success with which this beautiful theory had explaine all that was known of light before the time of Fresnel and Thomas Young , and had produced floods of new knowledge , splendidly enriching the whole domain of physical science .
My audience was to consist of professoria ] fellow-students in physical science ; and from the beginning I felt that our meetings were to be conferences of -efficients*in endeavours to advance science , rather than teachings of my comrades by myself .
I spoke with absolute freedom , and had never the slihtest fear of undermining their perfect faith in ether and its light-giving waves ; by anything I could tell them of the imperfections of our mathematics ; of the insufficiency or faultiness of our views regarding the dynamical qualities of ether ; and of the overwhelmingly great difficulty of finding a field of action for ether among the atoms of ponderable matter .
We all felt that difficulties were to be faced and not to be evaded ; were to be taken to heart with the hope of solving them if possible ; but , at all events , with the certain assurance that there is an explanation of every difficulty though we may never succeed in finding it In the literaI sense of the term .
lxx Obituary Noilces of Peltows He goes on to say that he had now , in 1904 , virtually got to the bottom of the difficulties of 1884 .
He thinks , too , that in the wider field of ethereal phenomena everything non-magnetic can be explained " " without going beyond the elastic-solid theory but nothing magnetic .
" " The so-called electro- magnetic theory of light has not helped us hithel.to : but the grand object is fully before us of comprehensive dynamics*of ether , electricity , and ponderable matter , which shall include eJectrostatic force , magnetostatic force , electro-magnetism , electro-chemistry , and the wave theory of light His purely scientific activity from 1884 onwards hinged largely on the production of the definitive edition of these lectures , which , in terms of the remarks just quoted , had raised up in front of him all the difficulties in modern optical and general ethereal theory .
The resulting volume , with its numerous insertions , including most of pp. 280-468 , and the twelve Appendices occupying pp. 468-700 , may take rank in fact as virtually Volume of the 'Mathematical and Ph.vsical Papers .
' Among the vast array of new and recent material collected into the volume there may be mentioned the following : theory and observation on the opacity of air and gases , reflexion from diamond and from metals , his various attempts at elastic solid vibratory theories of the aether , rotation of the plane of polarization combined with double retraction , waves on water and in dispersive media the residual disturbance they leave behind , waves raised by wind or by ships , the total mass of the material universe , various tbeories of electrons or electrions as he preferred to call them ; also much regarding molecular tactic of crystals and the resulting dynamics , this time on a Boscovichian foundation .
The loyal Institution Lecture of 1900 on 'Nineteenth Century Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of Heat and Light ' is also included ; these difficulties he there reduces to two : the difficulty egarding the motion of matter through aether , which he thinks is ' not wholly dissipated and the difficulty about the away of the energy of gaseous molecules among their numerous periods of free vibration , which he solves in what may possibly be held to be the natural way , by denying the proofs .
An estimate of Lord Kelvin 's influence on modern geology has been contributed for this Notice by his friend , Sir Archibald Geikie:\mdash ; " " Throughout his life Lord Kelvin took much interest in the progress of geology .
From the year 1844 onwards for some eighteen years , he watched with lncreasing impatience the spread of the doctrines of the Uniformitarian School , which reached the height of its influence about the middle of last century .
At in the year 1862 he broke silence on the subject , doctrines of that school to be opposed to physical laws .
Three years later he gave greater emphasis to his onism by publishing a short paper with the uncompromising title , ' The Doctrine of Uniformity in Geology briefly refuted .
' Again in 1868 he eturned to the attack and brought forward additional lines of argument in support of his charge that British , however , pp. xviii-xxiv , lxv , supra .
Lord Kelvirl .
lxxi popular geology stood in direct opposition to the principles of natural philosophy ' and required ' a great reform .
' " " It was one of the accepted tenets of the Uniformitarian School that the of past time available for the explanation of the phenomena of geology was unlimited .
But by arguments drawn from the origin and age of the sun 's heat , the internal heat and rate of cooling of the earth , and the tidal retardation of the earth 's rotation , Kelvin fixed limits to the possible of our planet .
At first he maintained that this age could not be less than twenty millions of years nor more than four hundred millions .
In his latest writings on the subject he restricted the time to between twenty and forty millions .
" " His papers have given rise to a prolonged controversy and no final agreement has yet been reached .
But these papers have profoundly influenced the course of modern ical speculation .
They roused geologists from their comfortable belief in the limitless of the past , and led them to revise their estimates of the value of geological time .
Lord Kelvin 's insistence greatly helped to tone down the extreme uniformitarian views which were in vogue half a century ago .
Even those ists , palaeontologists , and biologists who most keenly dispute the validity of the arguments whereby he sought to compress the antiquity of the globe within limits that seem too narrow for the evolution of geological history , must admit that in turning the brilliant light of his genius upon this subject he did a notable service to the progress of modern geology Little has been said here with regard to Lord Kelvin 's masterful and mosb effective preoccupation with the development of modern electric engineering , which has now almost completed the transition from the age of steam to the age of electric power .
In this new branch of applied science , his active perception of the essentials of progress assumed the form of generalship : most of the details of progress naturally came from others , but he was ready always to emphasise the salient problems , and to acclaim , early and enthusiastically , such nascent inyentions as would be pertinent to their mastery .
An example is afforded by the emphasis with which he hailed the invention of the original Faure storage cell or accumulator , *which promised to supply the improvements ( including the subdivision of a large battery to play the part of a step-down transformer , not yet practically effective ) then necessary for economical development of the electric generation of power .
This subject came particular]y to the front.in his Presidential Address in 188 ] .
at York to the Physical Section at the Jubilee Meeting of the British Association , " " On the Sources of Energy in Nature available to Man for the Production of Mechanical Effect which almost repeats the title of his early paper of 1852 , but is this time concerned with the practical utilisation of these sources , now rapidly ripening , whereas the earlier discussion related to their philosophical deteQtion and estimation .
In this Address , after referring to Siemens ' * Brit. Assoc. Report , ' ] , p. 526 .
Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
suggestion , three years previously , of the electrical transmission at high potential of the power of rara Falls , itself resting , as he remarks , on Joule 's early experimental discovery that in an electromagnetic engine as much as ninety per cent. of the energy of the driving current can be utilised , he proceeds to summarise his own conclusions regarding economy of transmission over long distances , as communicated in the form of evidence to a Parliamentary Committee two yenrs before .
The brief paper , now classical in electro-technics , then communicated , * ' ' On the Economy of Metal in Conductors of Electricity is an early notable instance of the blending of economics with exact physics : the solution of the problem " " would be found by comparing the annual interest of the money value of the copper with the money value of the energy lost annually in the heat generated in it by the electric current .
The money value of a stated amount of energy had not yet to appear in the City price lists He shows that the gauge to be chosen for the transmitting conductor does not depend on its length , but solely on the of the current to be employed .
He was much concerned also in the early evolution of dynamos ( the term had been introduced by him about this time as a contraction for dynamo-electric machine ) , the designing of which was to become entirely effectiye a few years Iater by means of the graphical methods introduced by Hopkinson .
Perhaps the earliest domestic installation of electric lighting in this country was the experimental one which he established in his house at the University of ; while one of the early public installations was the one , still in operation , which he presented , in connexion with the celebration of the six hundredth anniversary of the foundation of that most ancient house , to his College in Cambridge , which had been able , under new utes , to re-elect him to the Fellowship that he had vacated before on his marriage .
The introduction of heavy currents and voltages in required the provision of suitable instruments of measurement .
This was always a task : his graded series of current-weighers or ampere-meters , and of volt-meters\mdash ; embodying those theoretical principles of adequate support free from constraint or strain , in mechanical design , on which he always insisted , to the great improyement of general practice in such matters\mdash ; have proved to be of fundamental service wherever exact measurement is essential .
His interests ramified into all departments of human activity : even his physical writings were often reheved by play of allusion to literature and history .
In his later years he took an active and zealous part in political affairs , and attended regularly the sittings of the Hone of Lords .
In his undergraduate days he was one of the founders of the Cambridge University Musical Society , playing the French horn at its opening concerts in 1843 .
Later he published some observations on the beats of imperfect harmonics of simple tones , tending to a conclusion different from that of Helmholtz which referred the beats to combination tones .
'Brit .
Assoc. Report , ' 1881 , pp. 526-8 .
$ Roy .
Soc. Edin .
Proc 1878 .
Lord Kelvin .
lxxiii All this activity implied a robust constitution .
As an undergraduate at Cambrid , he found time to take a keen interest in manly sports , rowing in the Peterhouse boat , which had second place on the river , and winning the Colquhoun Sculls , then , as now , one of the main objects of athletic ambition .
Afterwards he was expert at curling until a serious accident on the ice stopped the pursuit , and left him lame for life .
His subsequent yachting and cable-laying experiences have been already referred to .
The general impression produced , at first sight , by the four volumes , containing the collected scientific papers up to 1860 , might well be a somewhat vague notion of desultory , though profound , occupation with the ideas that were afterwards to be welded by more systematic expositors into our modern theoretical knowledge of mechanical and electrical and optical philosophy .
At first glance , the exposition in characteristicallypractical terminology might even suggest that these papers were concerned with the engineering achievements by which he is most widely knoWn , as much as with new theoretical foundations for physical science .
Closer attention has compelled the conclusion that the results of his activity in the early period from 1845 to 1856 are perhaps unique in modern scientific annals ; at any rate , there can have been few parallels since Newton and Huygens and their great predecessors .
It is said that Lagrange qualified his prof.ound admiration for the enius of Newton by the reflexion that only once could it be given to a mortal to have a system of the stars to unravel .
Somewhat in the same way one might imagine the reflexion of a seer of the future , that it can hardly be given again to a man of genius to have , in his first dozen years of creative intellectual activity , the ideas and discoveries of a Carnot , a Faraday , and a Joule , to interpret and develop for mankind .
His only peer in general physics in those early days , as also later if we exclude his own disciples , was perhaps Helmholtz .
They rran their careers of investigation about the same time , but at first their paths did not lie much together .
For in his early years Helmholtz 's professional work was that of a physiologist , though in the essay on the Conservation of Energy he revealed , in 1847 , his true bent as a leader in the exploration of the underlying principles connecting the different departments of the fundamental science , general physics .
By the time this famous essay came into Ihomson 's hands in 1852 , he had himself travelled , with Joule 's assistance , as far as it reached , if we except some special applications ; but much more , he had in fact already dug down , on the inspiration derived from Carnot , far into the true foundations of the doctrine of as available and recognisable to man , evolving from it ideas now familiar but then of revolutionary significance , as regards both dynamical science and cosmic evolution , of which no one up to that time had any definite notion .
The saving virtue of physical or any other genuine science is that the most essential discoveries of one generation become worked up so as to be obvious and almost axiomatic to the next .
The charm of the study of scientific history is thus to trace the of creative ideas , to VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. / ' Ixxiv Obituary Notices of see how slight sometimes was the obstacle that delayed the discovery of new field of knowledge ; though here the temptation to read back our own refined knowledge into the past lays many snales .
In no part of science is this interest greater than in the doctrine of Available Energy ; the generality of outlook , leading to recasting of the fundamental ideas regarding physical force and power , which was secured by Thomson away back in the fifties , is on the least favourable view a matter for wonder .
In the years following , the powers of Helmholtz were concentrated largely on his great task of the exploration of the physical foundations of the activity of the senses , a subject of fundamental importance because they supply our only outlook into the external world ; while Thomson 's efforts were employed in the problem , then urgent and preparatory to Maxwell , of the dynamical interpretation of the ideas of Faraday , and in the creation of the fundamental science above referred to , which constitutes Thermodynamics in its widest sense , the all-pervading doctrine of Available Physical Energy which it seems appropriate that Rankine 's name Energetics should belong .
In later days of close friendship their fields of activity had much in common , .
Helmholtz apparently often brooding over , and developing into fuller and more varied aspects , fertile points of view , such as the influence of wind and surfacetension on waves , and the generalisation of dynamics by the inclusion of latent cyclic motions , that had been already thrown off in more summary fashion by his colleague .
On the institution of the Helmholtz memorial medal , the first award was to Lord Kelvin .
In a letter to Tait in who was preparing a biographical notice for ' Nature , ' Helmholtz had given an estimate of the work of his friend at that period .
" " His peculiar merit , to my own opinion , consists in his method of problems of mathematical physics .
He has striven with great consistency to purify the mathematical theory from hypothetical assumptions that were not a pure expression of the facts .
In this way he has done very much to destroy the old u1matural separation between experimental and mathematical physics , and to reduce the latter to a precise and pure expression of the laws of phenomena .
He is an eminent mathematician , but the gift to translate real facts into mathematical equations , and vice , is by far more than that to find tlJe solution of iven mathematical problem , and in this direction Sir William Thomson is most eminent and original .
His electrical instruments and methods of observation , by which he has rendered , amongst other things , electrostatical phenomena as precisely measurable as magnetic or galvauic forces , the most striking illustration how much can be gained for purposes by a clear insight into theoretical questions ; and the series of his papers on thermodynamics , and the experimental tions of several most conclusions deduced from Carnot 's axiom , point in the same direction We have seen the hints and principles thrown out by Thomson in such profusion fructify in patient development by reat iators , so that 'Nature , ' vol. 14 , 1876 , p. 388 .
Lord Kelvin .
lxxv it would be difficult to name a branch of modern physical science in which bis activity has not been fundamental .
In one phase of his thought , it becomes cosmical and transcends experimental aids .
All through life his ideas were wont to range over the immensities of the material universe , reaching back to its oligin and onward to its ultimate fate .
In his youth he established the cardinal principle of inanimate cosmic evolution , as effected through the degradation of energy , which determines the fate of worlds , and is the complement of the principle of evolution in organic life which came to light at about the same time .
In another aspect of this principle , asserting that the trend of available energy must always be downwards , it has developed into the key to the coulse and the equilibrium of voltaic and chemical change , and to all other branches of physical knowledge in which the atomic nature of matter is the pervading influence .
The greatness of the revolution thus effected in physical science , and in its industrial applications which are in strict relation to this available , requires no emphasis .
The magnitude of the advance brought by the mere enunciation of the principle of dissipation is to be measured by the very eness of this law to our present modes of thought ; it is difficult now to nise the limitations that must have belonged to the time when its formulation caused such surprise and wonder .
At the end of his career his thoughts reverted again to these problems of the origin , and destiny of material things .
Novel considerations were brought to bear , with intellectual vigour appropriate to youth , to demonstrate evell the finiteness of the material universe\mdash ; such , for example , as the darkness of the firmament and the moderate magnitude of the relative velocities of the most distant stars .
In the last weeks he pondered over the remote history of our own planet , and reasoned with striking force and lucidity , as may be read in a posthumous paper , on the antiquity of its continents and oceans , reaching back possibly to the time when the Moon separated from the Earth .
In this Notice the chief aim has been to out a connected historical view of the course of Lord Kelvin 's scientific activity and its relation to his contemporaries .
No attempt has been made to describe the charm of his personality .
That has been recognised long ago by the whole world ; for many a year the ordinary restrictions of na , tionality have had little application to him ; he been venerated and acclaimed wherever scientific investigation is appreciated .
No instance in his long career can be recalled in which he asserted for himself any claim of priority in intellectual achievement ; rather his attitude has always been to show how much he had learned from his colleagues , and how much he expected to derive from them in the future .
In this regard there is just time to interpolate an extract from the fine appreciation by Lord Rosebery , his successor in the chancellorship of the University of Glasgow , delivered in his installation In my ' The Times , ' June 13 , 1908 .
Ixxvi Lord Kelvin .
personal intercourse with Lord Kelvin , what most struck me was his tenacity , his laboriousness , his indefatigable humility .
In him was visible none of the reiliousness or scorn which sometimes embarrass the strongest intellects .
Without condescension , he placed himself at once on a level with his companion .
That has seemed to me a characteristic of such great men of science as I have chanced to meet .
They are always face to face with the transcendent mysteries of nature . . . .
Such oours produce a sublime calm , and it was that which seemed always to pervade Lord Kelvin .
Surely , in an age fertile in distinction , but not lavish of greatness , he was truly great .
Individualism is out of fashion . . . .
But great individualities such as Lord Kelvin 's are independent of the pressure of circumstance and the wayward course of civilisation It is unnecessary to attempt any list of the distinctions and awards which oame to him in the course of years ; it suffices to say that there was probably no honour open to a man of science that was at his disposal .
Abundant personal record is and will bs available in appreciations by his colleagues , who were all his fi'iends ; for example in the masterly estimate by G. F. contained in the memorial volume the proceedings in celebration of the Jubilee of his Professorship at Glasgow in 1899 .
In deference to the strikingly unanimous desire of his countrymen of all classes , and amid touching tributes from his colleagues in other nations , he was laid finally to rest in historic ground , on December 23 , 1907 , alongside his great exemplar Sir Isaac Newton , in Westminster Abbey .
J. lxxvii P. J. C. JANSSEN , 1824\mdash ; 1907 .
PIERRE JULES JANSSEN was born in Paris on February 22 , 1824 .
Son of a musician , grandson of an architect , both distinguished , an artistic career was for him , and he began the study of painting with great diligence , but he was so forcibly attracted by physical science that he eventually took up his studies in that direction , always , however , retaining a great taste for art .
He was , to a large extdnt , self-taught , as his father lost his property ; Janssen for some years supported himself by working in a bank and in giving private lessons .
Every spare hour , however , was spent at the Sorbonne in following the lectures of Cauchy , Chasles , Le Verrier and others , and on Sundays he studied at the Conservatoire .
In 1852 he obtained the Degree of Licentiate of Mathematical Science , he was repetiteur at the Lycee Louis le Grand in this year , and , in 1855 , won the diploma of Licentiate of Physical Science , after which he eventually took his degree at the University .
In 1857 the Minister of Public Instruction , in spite of Janssen 's lameness , which he owed to the carelessness of a nurse , put him in charge of an expedition to determine the course of the magnetic equator across Peru .
He was accompanied by the two brothers Grandidier , his pupils .
Alfred Grandidier became , subsequently , an explorer of Madagascar , and was made a Member of the Academy .
Janssen unfortunately contracted fever in traversing the swamps and forests , and was obliged to abandon his measurements .
For many months he was so seriously ill that the return to Europe could not be undertaken till the next year .
On his return he took another teaching position at Creusot , and , while so engaged , he prepared his thesis for the Degree of Doctor of Physical Science .
This dealt with a remarkable study of the eye , in which he demonstrated that the media of the eye possess the property of absorbing dark radiant heat , and only allow those rays to reach the retina which are necessary for vision .
He obtained the degree on the strength of this in 1860 ; and it was Kirchhoff and Bunsen 's discoveries at that time which deflected him from Ophthalmology to Spectroscopy , to which , in the main , the rest of his life was devoted .
His spectroscopic studies began by enquiries into atmospheric absorption .
First a dispersion was employed to study the solar spectrum at varying altitudes .
He had already built a private observatory in 1862 , on a belvedere on the top of.his house in the Rue Labat ( Montmartre ) .
From 1862 to 1864 he was occupied with missions to Italy and the Alps in connexion with this work , to get the least density of atmosphere by observing at a high altitude .
Eight days on the Faulhorn , in 1864 , were enough to enable him to state that the telluric rays were much less visible at that elevation .
In the same year experiments were undertaken near GeneYa for the same purpose .
The spectrum of a large bonfire at Nyon was examined by a VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. lxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows spectroscope there and afterwards located in the tower of St. Peter 's Church at Geneva , twenty-one kilometres away over the lake .
The telluric lines were observed and that they were due to absorption by the atmosphere was strongly suggested ; later work at La Villette ran them home to water vapour .
From 1865 to 1871 Janssen held the post of Professor of General Physics at the Special School of Architecture , but , as we shall see , he found time to continue his spectroscopic work and expeditions .
In 1867 he went to Trani , in Ttaly , to observe the eclipse of the sun , with special reference to the thickness of the reversing layer in the sun 's atmosphere .
He was in the Greek Archipelago with Fouque at the time of the eruption of Santorin , where he observed the sodium and in the flames from the lava .
He ascended Mount Etna , where he detected the probable presence of water vapour in the atmospheres of Mars and Saturn .
Also in 1867 he went to the Azores to make optical researches with Charles Sainte-Claire Deville ; while crossing Spain and Portugal he spent some time in securing magnetical observations .
In 1868 he observed the eclipse of the sun at Guntoor , in Hindustan , on behalf of the French Government , the Acade'mie des Sciences , and the Bureau des Longitudes .
This was the occasion on which he discovered that by using a spectroscope the sun 's surroundings and their chemistry could be observed without the intervention of an eclipse .
During the eclipse he was struck with the great brightness of the lines , chiefly of hydrogen , which were visible , and it struck him that they ought to be visible at other times .
The weather clouded after the last contact , so nothing could be done that day ; but he rose at 3 the next morning , and , having arlanged his apparatus in the way he had thought .
out , with a radial slip adjusted for , he soon saw a bright line in prolongation of the dark in the spectrum of the photosphere .
Referring to these observations in a letter to his mother on September 6 , he wrote , " " Je lis dans un livre ferme jusqu'ici pour tous .
" " The French Government , the importance of the discovery of the new method of sun observa ion , at once sent out to Janssen the Cross of the Legion of Honour .
The Academy of Sciences awarded him the Lalande prize , quintupled in value , and further , at the suggestion of M. Dumas , .
struck a medal to commemorate the event .
A year afterwards , in 1869 , Janssen suggested at the of the British Association at Exeter the use of two slits on a rotating spectroscope so that a complete image of the prominences could be photographed on a fixed plate .
Here we have the germ of the idea which has since been utilised by both Hale and Deslandres with such success .
In 1870 there was an eclipse visible in Algeria , and in 1869 Janssen commenced his preparations to observe it .
Unfortunately , before they were completed Paris was besieged by the German Army. .
Under these circumstances the British Eclipse Committee , who had invited Janssen to join their expedition , the intervention of the Foreign Office .
Lord TenterdeIL P. J. C. lxxix took the greatest interest in the affair , and ultimately Prince Bismarck granted a passport for Janssen to pass through the German lines with his instruments .
It is not quite clear whether this ever reached Janssen , but in any case he did not take advantage of it.* He left Paris in a balloon , the " " Volta with a single mariner as companion , on December 2 .
It was his first ascent , and was not without its difficulties ; the proper " " balancement du \ldquo ; was not easy to secure .
All , however , turned out well so far as getting to his appointed station went ; but for him , as for most of the English and American observers , work was prevented by clouds .
In spite of his lameness , part of the next year was spent in long voyages : in 1871 to India to observe another eclipse , in 1874 to Japan for the Transit of Venus , and in 1875 to Siam , to observe still another eclipse .
While at home he continued his spectroscopic observations , and , in relation in particular to the Transit of Venus , he developed the application of photography with the idea , as he expressed it , " " la plaque photographique sera bientot la veritable retine du savant The " " revolver photographique then designed by him to automatically obtain a rapid succession of instantaneous pictures of Venus transiting the sun 's limb , is the origin of the now well-known cinematograph .
The progress of solar studies carried on by Janssen and others had been so immense that the French Government decided to establish an observatory for solar physics .
M. Duruy , the Minister of Public Instruction , first took up the question in 1869 , and the Pavillon de Breteuil was granted by the Emperor for the purpose ; but then came the war of 1870 , and it was not till July 22 , 1874 , that the proposal was laid before the National Assembly to create near Paris a special observatory for astrophysical inquiries .
The .
Minister submitted the proposal to the Academy of Sciences ( August , 1874 ) , which body not only expressed their entire adhesion to the project but strongly urged its prompt realisation .
There was a provisional installation in Montmartre ( Boulevard Ornano ) from 1876 to 1879 , until the question of site was settled .
The choice lay between the two State domains of Malmaison and Meudon .
The latter , still occul ) by the troops , was ultimately determined upon .
As the chateau had been burnt after the war , Janssen installed the instruments in the dependencies ( October .
1876 ) , where , indeed , he On this point Madame Janssen has been good enough , in reply to an inquiry , to send me the following information:\mdash ; " " Monsieur Janssen a eu connaissance des demarches faites par votre Gouvernement pour obtenir de M. de Bismark son libre passage , mais il no pouvait lnoralement en profiter ; ayant requ General Trochu et de Jules Simon la mission verbale d'aller trouver Gambetta a Tours oil siegeait le Gouvernement de la fense nationale , il s'empressa de partir sans attendre la reponse de M. de Bismark .
Mais il n'en est pas moins rest , croyez le bien , infiniment laissant au Gouvernemsnt Anglais dont il a toujours eprouv6 l'estime et la generosite , et a vous-meme qui aviez pris grande part dans cette affair .
" " , arrive a Tours , il est alle voir Gambetta avaunt de se rendre en Algerie , et pendant bien des annees , il no lui etait pas possible de laisser connaltre les circonstances particulieres de son depart lxxx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
himself lived till his death .
Two years afterwards the part of the chateau was restored , and a large dome of .
diameter erected on it , which now contains one of the largest refractors in Europe .
The other instruments were erected in observatories distributed in the grounds .
The divisions of the stalls in the stables , a range of buildings 100 metres long , were utilised as supports for lengthy tubes the gases , the study of the absorption of which formed part of the physical programme .
The first work done at Meudon was a special photographic study of the sun 's surface .
The instrument employed was an object-glass of 5 inches aperture , with a secondary magnifier giving images from 12 to 18 inches diameter , using the light near the solar line and exposures from 1/ 1000 to 1/ 3000 of a second .
The photographs thus obtained were a revelation , and enabled Janssen to largely increase our knowledge of the currents in the sun 's atmosphere .
On the nental side , Janssen returned to his inquiries as to the origin of the telluric bands , this time with special reference to oxygen , and the long tubes to which attention has been called were utilised in the research .
The carrying out of these and allied branches of work took some five years after the installation the observatory at Meudon .
It was not till 1882 that we find him taking part in another series of long voyages : 1882 , to observe the transit of Venus at Oran ; 1883 , to observe still another solar eclipse on Caroline Island in the Pacific ; 1884 , to plead for a neutral meridian at the International Conference at Washington .
On his way back from Caroline Island he repeated his spectroscopic observations at Santorin by touching at the Sandwich Islands to investigate Mauna .
In the .
emanations from the lava lake he detected spectroscopically sodium , hydrogen , and hydrocarbon vapours .
His voyages for some time onwards from 1888 had for one main object the continuance of his investigations into the bands of oxygen in the red end of the solar spectrum experimentally studied at different pressures at Meudon .
In the early observations at Geneva and Nyon it was a question of water vapour , and that point was settled ; but with regard to the oxygen bands it was necessary to deal with as little of the earth 's atmosphere as possible , and therefore to make observations of the sun 's spectrum at a great altitude .
In spite of his lameness we find him doing this work at the Grands Mulets in 1888 .
Here he found the bands less intense ; and Janssen 's way was to endeavour to carry on the work in an observatory higher still , and for this nothing less than the highest point in Europe , that is , the summit of Mont Blanc itself , nearly 1800 metres higher than the Grands Mulets , would satisfy him .
Thanks to the muniiicence of M. Bischoffsheim , the founder of the Nice Observatorv , Prince Roland Bonaparte , M. Eiffel , and of Janssen himself , a Mont Blanc Observatory was determined upon in 1890 , and was erected by 1893 , in which year , and again in 1895 , Janssen was carried up the mountain in a special form of chaise porteurs .
The labours of himself and others were rewarded by the result of the observations .
P. J. C. lxxxi The oxygen bands were at their feeblest at the greatest height , and it was , therefore , the atmosphere of the earth and not of the sun which gave rise to them .
His last eclipse expedition was to Spain in 1905 ; his last journey was to observe the eruption of Vesuvius in 1906 , when he was eighty-two years of age .
His last visit to England was to take part at a Meeting of the Solar Union at Oxford , in the autumn of 1905 , at which he was elected President d'honneur .
His last appearance was at another Meeting of the Solar Union , held at his invitation at Meudon , in May , 1907 .
The preceding account of Janssen 's various activities will have shown that in his death the world of Science has lost a man of the first order .
Imagination , persistence , unflagging energy , and height of aim were always present ; but to those who knew him best , both in his laboratory and in the world among his confreres , his beautiful natul'e overshadowed his scientific reputation .
He was never so happy as when descanting on the successes of his brother pioneers in the new field of work which he had been among the first to till .
For him there was no question of personal achievement , the advance of knowledge , by whomsoever made , was his chief desire and delight .
With such qualities of mind and heart , his declining were made very easy for him ; the devoted affection of his wife , who accompanied him in many of his voyages , and daughter , shielded him from all cares and anxieties in his modest home in one of the dependencies of the chateau , while the visits of affectionate friends kept his life bright .
The French Government suspended their retirement rule in his favour , so that he was enabled to breathe his last in the observatory he had founded and made famous .
Janssen died full of honours .
He was Commander of the Legion of Honour ; he was elected a Membre de l'Institut in 1873 ; he was the oldest Member of the Academy of Sciences , having succeeded Laugier .
He was .
also a Member of the Bureau , and had received the Lalande Medal .
The Academies of Rome , St. Petersburgh , Brussels , and Washington , and the learned societies of many countries enrolled his name on their list of Fellows .
In this country he was a Foreign Member of the Royal Society , from which he received the Rumford Medal for his researches in 1877 ; Edinburgh made him an .D .
of that University , and in 1872 he was elected an Associate of the Royal Astronomical Society .
He also received the Gold Medal of the Royal Society for his many voyages .
This he afterwards had melted down , and from the proceeds founded an annual prize which bears his name at the Societe de raphie .
He died December 23 , 1907 , and was buried in Pere-la-Chaise .
Wolf , Radan , Deslandres , de Lapparent , Pector , de Fonvielle , le Com- mandant Paul Renard , and Dr. Faveau de Courmalles , representing various scientific organisations , each pronounced a discourse over the grave .
N. lxxxii THOMAS ANDREWS , 1847\mdash ; 1907 .
THE late Mr. Thomas Andrews was born in 1847 , and educated at Broombank School , Sheffield .
He studied chemistry under the late Dr. Allen , and early showed a deep interest in scientific research .
He was also trained in practical metallurgy and engineering under his father , upon whose death , in 1871 , he became proprietor of the Wortley Ironworks .
Mr. Andrews took up the investigation of scientific metallurgy at a time when workers in this field were comparatively few , and up to the time of his death devoted a large portion of his time to scientific research .
The results of these researches are embodied in forty papers , published in the .
Proceedings of the Royal Societies of London and ] , the Minutes of the Institute of Civil Engineers , the Proceedings of the Society of Engineers , and other Scientific and Engineering publications .
As a result of these investigations , Mr. Andrews acquired the reputation of an expert upon metallurgical questions ; he was consulted by His Majesty the late King of the Netherlands , the Board of Trade , the Admiralty , and many leading railway and naval companies , upon matters relating to iron and steel , and in the course of this work examined and reported upon many serious accidents caused through the breakage of steel .
Mr. Andrews was one of the first to take up the microscopic examination of metals , and contributed many papers upon this subject , paying particular attention to the crystalline structure of iron and steel , and the manner in which sulphide of manganese was distributed in steel forgings .
Previously he had exhaustively studied the corrosion of metals , and the action of tidal streams upon iron and steel .
He advanced proof to show that metals which were strained or distorted by cold work were less liable to be acted upon by sea water than in their ary or soft condition .
Another long and costly series of experiments was made upon the effect of temperature on the strength of axles .
In these experiments oVer 3 tons of snow were used in the making of freezing mixtures , and no less than 286 railway axles and , weighing more than 41 tons , were tested and destroyed in the various experiments .
The following were Mr. Andrews ' general tentative conclusions in the foregoing investigation :\mdash ; 1 .
The impact tests with an " " energy\ldquo ; of 10 foot-tons on axles at a temperature of 21 F. , com.pared with results at F. , indicated an increase of endurance at the higher temperature of about 235 per cent. 2 .
The impact tests with an " " energy\ldquo ; of 10- foot-tons on axles at a temperature of F. , compared with results at F. , showed an increase endurance at the higher temperature of nearly 120 per cent. 3 .
The impact tests with an " " energy\ldquo ; of 10 foot-tons on axles examined at a temperature of 10 F. , when contrasted with results obtained at F. , Thomas Andrews .
lxxxiii demonstrated .
an increase of resistance at the higher temperature of about 43 per cent. , and this increase was , within certain limits , in proportion to the increase of temperature .
4 .
The impact tests with an " " energy\ldquo ; of 5 foot-tons on axles at a temperature of 10 F. gave an increase of resistance of about 138 per cent. , compared with the results on axles similarly tested , but at a temperature of F. 5 .
The impact experiments with an " " energy\ldquo ; of foot-tons applied to axles at a temperature of F. , compared with experiments at F. , showed an increased resisting power to concussion at the higher temperature of nearly 88 per cent. Another series of delicate physical experiments dealt with the electrochemical and magnetic properties of iron and steel , and the so-called " " passive state\ldquo ; of these metals .
A few years ago Mr. Andrews gave a course of lectures to the engineering ents of the University of Cambridge upon the microscopic examination of metals , and its relation to engineering , which led to several important researches being undertaken in the University laboratories .
Mr. Andrews took a deep interest in Technical Education and was a Governor of the Sheffield Technical School for many years .
He also was keenly interested in the foundation of the New University of Sheffield , and , as a member of the Council , took an active part in the development of the University .
Mr. Andrews had been in failing health for the past two years , but up to lihe of his death on June 19 , 1907 , was able to take an active interest in his gical and educational work .
In recognition of the value of his work he was awarded the Telford Medal .and three Telford Premiums by the Institution of Civil Engineers , the Bessemer Gold Medal , Bessemer Premium , and the Society 's Premium of the Society of Engineers , and the Medal of the Franklin Institute .
Amongst his many papers the following , perhaps , may be cited as the most important , viz. :\mdash ; " " Galvanic Action between Wrought Iron , Cast Metals , and various Steels during long Exposure in Sea Water .
Proc. Inst. C. vol. 77 , 1883--4 .
" " Corrosion of Metals during longcExposure in Sea Water .
Proc. Jnst .
C. vol. 82 , 1884-5 .
" " The Relative Electro-chemical Positions of Wrought Iron , Steels , Cast Metals , etc. , in Sea Water and other Solutions Roy .
Soc. dinburgh .
" " Effect of Temperature on the Strength of Railway Axles Parts I , II , III , ' .
Proc. Inst. C. vols .
87 , 94 , 105 .
" " Effect of Chilling on the Impact Resistance of Metals ' .
Proc. Inst. C. vol. , 1890-1 .
" " Microscopic Internal Flaws in Steel Rails and Propeller Shafts ' Engineering , ' January 17 , 1896 .
lxxxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
unusual course of thanking him for his valuable services , and on his return to he was appointed Inspector of Railway Stores at the India Office .
In 1875 he was nominated by Lord Salisbury to the Indian Council , and in 1876 he retired from the army with the rank of Lieutenant-General .
Although he had retired from permanent office in India he returned there in 1877 on a mission connected with the purchase of the East Indian Railway by the Government and remained until 1879 , having been appointed President of the Famine Commission , and subsequently temporary Finance Minister in place of his brother Sir John .
In connexion with this stage of Strachey 's Indian career , it may be well to quote portion of the eloquent appreciation by Sir Charles Elliott contained in a letter addressed to the Spectato this letter shows how his personality and his work were esteemed by one of his most distinguished colleagues .
The letter is as follows:\mdash ; " " I venture to offer what must be an inadequate tribute to the great " " achieyements of Sir Bichard Strachey .
It cannot be an adequate tribute , " " for one of the most remarkable about him was the varied and many " " sided character of his gifts .
as a brilliant soldier in the Sikh " " War , he rose to the summit of his profession as an engineer in the " " construction of irrigation canals and railways , and in defining the policy " " which should overn the programme of their extension .
He held a leading " " position as a man of science in respect of botany , meteorology , geology , and " " geography ; and towards the close of his Indian career he showed qualities of the highest statesmanship in dealing with the questions of famine " " policy , and with the problems of finance and.exchange , when the fall in the " " price of silver threatened to plun , India into an abyss which would " " the whole of the growth of her revenues .
I doubt if anyone exists " " who is competent to deal with all the various and complex facets of such " " a mind , and I at least can only speak on what came under my own " " observation during the time when I was fortunate to be " " into close connexion with him .
" " When the first Indian Famine Commission was appointed in 1878 , with " " Sir Richard Strachey as President , I became its Secretary , and during two " " years , one of which was spent in making inquiries in India , the other in " " up the Beport in England , I was in intimate communication with " " him .
He had long been deeply interested in the subject , and in the famine " " of 1868\mdash ; 69 had drawn up for his brother a paper which Sir John , who " " was then istrate and Collector of Moradabad , fully adopted , and which " " embodied the rudiments of the main lines of policy which the Commission 's " " Report more fully developed .
The system which it laid down as to the proper " " measures for famine relief has been tested by the two severe famines of " " and 1899-1900 , and has in the maiu held its ground .
The " " recommendations as to administrative changes , the creation of the " " Agricultural Department , the great activity of the Forest Department * February 22 , 1908 .
Richard Strachey , G.C.S.I. lxxxvii ( a Department in the creation of which he had taken a leading part ) , the " " prosecution of public works for the protection of the country against " " drought , and the encouragement of diversity of occupations have been or " " are still being carried out , and have been productive of immense good to the " " country In 1889 Strachey resigned his life-tenure of membership of the Indian Council , to which he had been appointed by Lord Cranbrook , in order to take up the Chairmanship of the East Indian Railway .
Under his leadership the mileage of the East Indian Bailway lose from 1600 to 2700 miles , and it became one of the most prosperous railways in the world .
The salary attached to the office was insignificant compared with that received by the chairmen of other great railways .
It should be mentioned that Strachey was also Chairman of the Assam-Bengal Railway , and that he only resigned these positions in 1907 , when nearly ninety years of age .
Sir Arthur Godley , Permanent Under Secretary of State , who enjoys an exceptional position for reviewing the careers of the men who have piayed important parts in Indian administration , writes thus of 's services at the India " " It is difficult to convey an idea of my opinion of them without seeming to " " exaggerate .
He was not only invaluable in his own special lines of Public " " Works and Finance , but his knowledge and his interests were universal ; there " " was no department of our work on which I was not always glad to get his " " opinion , especially if the subject was one of any difficulty or anxiety .
His " " extraordinary ability and insight , his immense knowledge of everything " " relating India , his wonderful industry and power of work , his absolute " " ' straightness ' and fearlessness in giving his opinion\mdash ; these things give him , " " in my official memory , a place apart ; I have known many first-rate public " " servants , but I never knew one quite like him in all these respects The great career which has been thus sketched would seem to be more than sufficient to fill the life of one mar ] , and yet no mention has been made of that part of his activity which leads to the notice of his life in these pages .
It seemed best to separate the accounts of the official work from that of his work in science , although the two are really closely intertwined .
In the letter of Sir Charles Elliott , portion of which has been already quoted , we read : " " It is an interesting subject fon reflection to consider how much India " " owes to the constitutional delicacy of some of her greatest men . .
No " " one would connect Sir Richard 's keen .
and fiery temperament with " " disease ; but it was to a time when he was inoapacitated from his canal " " work by malarial fever that he owed his opportunity for burgeoning out " " into the studies of botany and geography in the Himalayas , which led to " " his honours as President of the Geographical Society and as Fellow of the " " Royal Society It was in 1846 , when , as already mentioned , he was compelled by frequent From a private letter .
lxxxviii Obituary Notices of deceased .
attacks of fever to relinquish his work on the Ganges Canal , that he undertook extensive explorations in the Himalayas and into Tibet .
An anonymous correspondent in the ' Spectato writes : " " Starting from the plain of Rohilkand , at an elevation of about a " " thousand feet above sea level , a north-easterly route was taken across the " " snowy ranges , and terminating on the Tibetan plateau at an altitude of " " between 14,000 and 15,000 feet on the upper course of the River " " Sutlej . .
The herbarium , which contained over two thousand " " ( including cryptogams ) , was distributed in 1852-53 to the Hookerian " " Herbarium ( now at Kew ) , the British Museum , the Linnean Society , and ' to some of the Continental museums .
All the specimens were carefully " " ticketed with notes of the localities and elevation at which they were " " found .
A provisionally-named catalogue , prepared by Sir Richard Strachey , " " was printed , and a copy was sent with each distributed set of plants .
" " This catalogue was afterwards printed , and appeared in 1882 in Atkinson 's " " ' Gazetteer .
' .
, At the request of Sir Richard Strachey another revised " " edition was prepared by Mr. J. F. Duthie . .
Of the large number of new " " species and varieties discovered [ by him ] no less than thirty-two bear his " " name I learn from a letter from Sir William Thiselton-Dyer that this journey was made in conjunction with Mr. J. E. Winterbottom , who went to India in 1848 to make botanical collections , and that the Government of India recommended him to the charge of Strachey , who was then surveying in the Himalayas .
The geographical and other results of the expedition were to have been worked out by Mr. Winterbottom , but he died in , and his journals were lost .
Strachey therefore published his own account of the journey in the ' Journal of the Royal Geographical Society ' in 1900 , and the botanical results were only published in 1906 , after a lapse of nearly sixty years .
Thiselton-Dyer considers this to be one of the most important documents in existence on the Himalayan flora .
The geological observations made by Strachey during this journey , and published by the Geological Society in 1851 , afforded the first contribution to our knowledge of the geology of the Himalayas .
He studied the glaciers of Kumaon , and established the existence of a great series of palaeozoic beds the line of its passes leading into Tibet , with jurassic and tertiary deposits them .
Sir Thomas Holdich writes : " " It is not too much " " to say that the information acquired by Strachey in that first excursion " " across the Himalayas\mdash ; information , botanical , to glaciers " " and snowfall .
has never been exceeded by any one braveller In consequence of the knowledge acquired in his travels , he was invited to write the articles " " Asia\ldquo ; and\ldquo ; Himalaya\ldquo ; in the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica .
' Previously to this journey he can have had but little knowledge either of botany or of geology , and it affords a striking testimony to his ability and * In a letter , signed " " B February 22 , 1908 .
The ' Geographical JournaI , ' March , 1908 , p. 343 .
Lieutenant-General , G. C.S.I. lxxxix lenergy that he should have been able to obtain such important results .
As a consequence of these contributions to science he was elected to the Royal Society in 1854 .
On his return to Eugland he naturally became a leading power at the Royal Geographical Sooiety , and from 1887 to 1889 he filled the office of President .
During his tenure of the Presidency he endeavoured to promote the teaching of geographical science , and he came to bridge to deliver a short and admirable series of lectures on the scope of geography , which were afterwards published in the form of a book .
In June , 1892 , the University recognised this service and his many ibutions to science by conferring on him the degree of LLD .
, on the recommendation of the Duke of Devonshire , Chancellor of the University , and formerly Secretary of State for India .
He also exercised great influence at the Royal Society , and served on the Council no less than four times\mdash ; viz. , in 1872-4 , 1880-1 , 1884-6 , and 1890-1 ; and in 1880-1 and in 1885-6 he was nominated as one of the Vice-Presidents .
He was one of the British delegates at the International Congress at Washington in 1884 for determining the Prime Meridian , and acted as one of the three Secretaries .
Great as are the services to science which have been already enumerated , we have not yet come to that branch of science to which Strachey made his most important contributions .
On his return from India in 1873 he was appointed a member of the Meteorological Committee of the loyal Society , which controlled the Office established in 1867 .
He was a .
member of Sir William Stirling Maxwell 's Committee which revised the constitution of the governing body of the Office , and was a member of the Council which replaced the Committee in 1876 .
On final return from India he resumed his place on the Council ; on the death of Professor H. J. S. Smith in 1883 he was appointed Chairman , and he held that position until the termination of the existence of the Council in 1905 and the reorganisation of the Office on its present footing .
An article by Dr. W. N. Shaw , the present Director of the Meteorological Office , gives an admirable account of Strachey 's position in meteorological science .
Dr. Shaw writes as follows:\mdash ; * " " My personal recollection of Sir ichard Strachey goes back to 1880 , " " when I was engaged upon some work for the Meteorological Council .
He " " was keenly interested in questions about the distribution ofvapour pressure " " in the atmosp ere .
The vertical distribution was the subject of a paper in " " the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society in 1862 .
My recollection is that he had a good deal to do with disposing of an idea that I have seen attributed " " to Herschel , that in reckoning the pressure of the atmosphere , water " " vapour did not count " " The distribution of vapour pressure in the atmosphere as determined by 'Nature , ' February 27 , 1908 .
xc Obituary Notices of Fellows " " his own observations up to 18,000 feet in the Himalaya was again discussed " " ( in the Lectures ) . . . . .
He to the subject of " " aqueous vapour in the atmosphere again in the determination of the heights " " of clouds by observations at Kew ; a preliminary report on the " " measurements was contributed to the 'Proceedings ' of the Royal Society in " " 1891 .
and there still exists a great store of unworked material .
" " From 1897 onwards I was closely associated with Strachey in the " " management of the Meteorological Office , and I speak without hesitation for " " his colleagues , Galton , Wharton , Buchan , Darwin , Field , and Scott , in saying " " that association with him was not the least among the privileges which " " attached to membership of the Council .
His clear insight into the " " at issue , his perfect lucidity in thought and expression , the logical " " marshalling of facts in the official documents which he wrote as Chairmar , " " will always be memorable .
He had not much patience with people who " " were imperfectly acquainted with the facts of a case under discussion , and " " he never cared to with them , but difference of opinion on lines " " of policy , even when ill expressed , never ruffled his serenity in the conduct " " of business .
From time to time while he was Chairman the office was " " subject to criticism which was not always fair , but he never complained .
" " He was always content to attribute the criticism to want of of " " the facts .
He would not even let us indulge in the semi-official pastime of " " abusing the Treasury .
Their responsibility had to take account of an aspect " " of the matter with which we were not cognisant , namely , where ths money " " was to come from , and we must be content to accept a judgment that had " " to reckon with public opinion in its executive form as well as with scientific " " aspirations .
Speaking for myself as one accustomed for many years to the " " details of business of College meetings and University syndicates , Strachey 's " " methods of transacting corporate business were a revelation .
" " As regards his later contributions to the science of , some " " words of explanation are necessary .
He had watched , and indeed had been " " largely instrumentalin providing the facilities for its study both in India and " " in this country , on the new lines of the comparison of results for different " " parts of the country or of the world .
He was conscious that the new science " " required a new method , that the method of the physical laboratory which aims ' : at elucidating a physical process by experiments specially directed thereto " " was inapplicable to the case of the free atmosphere .
Those who are critical ' of the vast accumulation of meteorological data which is oing on are apt to be unaware of the fact that data have to be collected in advance , and that , to this " " day , nearly every attempt to deal with a meteorological problem of any " " importance is baffled by the want of data ; they are equally unmindful of " " another noteworthy fact , namely , that in meteorology comparison is of the " " essence of the science .
The meteorologist is absolutely dependent upon other people 's observations ; his own are only useful in so far as they are comparable " " with those of other people .
Thus the time , trouble , and money spent upon " " organisation are not the expressions of limited scientific ambition , but a Sir Strachey , G.C.S.I. xci " " pnmary condition for securing indispensable facilities .
Strachey 's scientific " " judgment was extraordinarily acute .
He was quite prepared to carry on " " investigation to a speedy issue when circumstances permitted , as in the " " investigation of the Krakatoa eruption , which led to the recognition of a " " westerly drift in the upper air of the equatorial regions as a primary " " meteorological datum .
The paper to which Dr. Shaw here refers is Strachey 's admirable contribution to the volume of the 'Philosophical Transactions ' of 1888 , on the barometrical disturbances and sounds produced by the eruption of Krakatoa .
To revert to our quotation:\mdash ; " " In dynamical meteorology he was convinced that the most promising " " mode of attack was not to look for a direct dynamical explanation of the " " striking features , the eccentricities of the day 's weather , which are the " " almost fortuitous result of many causes combined in various phases , but to " " seek for the relations between regular sequences and their causes under " " lying the apparently arbitrary variations .
For this reason the methods of ' harmonic analysis specially acted him , and he was disposed to regard " " anything less general than five-day means as unmanageable .
He never " " completed the work on harmonic analysis that he had in hand .
He " " attached particular importance to the third Fourier component of diurnal " " variation , because the length of the day in these latitudes oscillates between " " one-third and two-thirds of the twenty-four hours .
A few years ago he " " took up the investigation of the question , and he has left a consider- " " able amount of unfinished material .
" " He was not to be driven from a position of modest optimism about such " " matters , and always explained that for a new science the progress made in " " the last fifty years is quite as great as could fairly be expected .
" " But he was no friend of the unnecessary compilation of data or of the " " unlimited extension of mean values .
Almost the last contribution that he " " gave me wns a computation of the number of years necessary to reach " " a mean value for temperature within the limits of the probable error of the " " mean value for a single year , based upon some tables published in 1902 for " " the extrapolation of mean values .
He was always more concerned to present " " meteorological data in a form amenable to computation than to increase their " " volume or detail .
When the weekly weather report was initiated in 1884 , " " he provided formulae for computing true daily mean from the maximum " " and minimum temperatures for the day , and for computing the amount of " " effective and ineffective warmth as referred to a base temperature of F. , " " which are still in use .
He once astonished me by pleading for raphical " " representation as being easier to read than columns of figures , for he could " " extract the meaning of a page of figures with a facility that made the dis " " cussion of results with him an indispensable part of any piece of work that " " was in hand .
Yet he was more than eighty years of age when we had to " " transact this kind of business together .
He never lost his appreciation of " " new methods which were sound , or of new projects which were promising .
VOL. LXXXL\mdash ; A. xcii Obituary Notices of Fellows Throughout his administration of the office he held to a high scientific deal " " while maintaining the efficiency of such daily work as was required for " " public use and for international co-operation .
His scientific horizon was " " a wide one .
With Stokes and Balfour Stewart he was largely instrumental in providing means for the anised study of the sun , which had been " " commenced in this country and in India by Sir Norman Lockyer , in order " " to trace the primary causes of those great meteorological fluctuations whiqh ' exhibit themselves in alternations of drought and plenty in India , a study ' which , pursued for many years at the Solar Physics Observatory at South 4 ' and at Kodaikanal , in India , has recently taken its place " " among the greater international organisations .
As head of the Public Works ' Department in India he transferred meteorological work in that depen " " dency from a provincial to an Imperial basis under Blanford and Eliot , and 4 ' laid the foundation for the admirable organisation of which the Government " " of India and its scientific stafl now enjoy the adyantage .
At the same time " " he initiated the forestry department , and the application of botanical science ' to the service of the public in that department .
" " Probably no single person had clearer iews of the future that lies before " " meteorological work as a matter of practical influence upon everyday life , or " " was more fully conscious of the long years of observation , organisation , and " " study that are necessary to secure the advantages which will ultimately more than reward the long years of patient inquiry On his retirement from the Meteorological Council in 1905 , his colleagues on the Council addressed a letter to him expressive of their sense of the advantages which had been secured to the meteorological service of the country by means of his Chairmanship of the Council .
In his acknowledgment he wrote thus : " " The exceptional difficulties that surround the scientific treatment of the subjects which the Council has had to consider have been further increased ' by the restricted means at our disposal for dealing with the great diversity 4 ' of the objects that called for attention ; and it is no small satisfaction to ' me to feel that it has been possible for us to do so much , and to maintain " " a scientific level that is , to say the least of it , in no way below the standard " " attained by similar institutions in other countries carried on under far more " " favourable conditions .
" " The success thus secured is certainly due in no small measure to the " " hearty co-operation of all the members of the Council and their Secretaries , " " supported as they have been by a highly intelligent and devoted staff , " " several of whom have been connected with the Office from the time of its ' original constitution .
" " Conscious as I am of my personal limitations , I thank you most ' sincerely for the generous appreciation you have accorded to my efforts , " " and specially for recalling my association in the work of the Council with " " the former eminent members whom you have named .
To these I may be " " allowed to add two of our distinguished retired members , Francis Galton , Lieutenant-General Sir Richard Straehey , G.C.S. xciii " " to whose fertile genius meteorological science owes so much , and Admiral " " Wharton , through whom the active association of the Hydrographic Depart " " meant of the Admiralty with the Marine branch of the Meteorological Office " " has been so greatly promoted In 1866 Strachey was made a Companion of the Star of India , and in 1897 he was advanced to the highest grade of the Order , the Grand Commandership .
In the same year one of the Royal Medals of the Royal Society was awarded to him for his researches in physical and botanical geography and in meteorology .
Finally , in 1906 , he received the Symons Medal the Royal Meteorological Society .
After his return from India he lived for some time at a house with a charming garden , called Stowey House , on Clapham Common .
Later he moved to a house in Lancaster Gate , and , only a few months before his death , he again removed to a house at Hampstead .
Almost every summer he was accustomed to take a furnished house somewhere in the country , usually in one of the home counties .
Although these times were nominally holidays to be enjoyed with his family , he still did much work , and usually attended various meetings in London .
During the last two or three years he had several severe illnesses , and on one occasion , when nearly eighty years of age , he was knocked down by a cab in the streets of London .
His excellent constitution enabled him to rally wonderfully on these occasions , and he was soon at work again .
After he gave up all his many positions , and when he became less vigorous in health , he principally devoted himself to reading novels , but his mind remained wondelfully fresh to the end , so that he still took an interest in all that was going on in the world .
His illness was an attack of influenza , from which he had not suflicie , nt strength to rally .
He died on February 12 , 1908 , being then nearly ninety-one years of age .
A memorial service , held at Christ Church , Lancaster Gate , was largely attended by many of his old Indian colleagues , and by representatives of many of the learned societies .
Although no attempt has been made in this article to speak of Sir Richard Strachey 's family life , it is proper to mention that in 1859 he married Jane , daughter of his old chief , Sir John Peter Grant , of Rothiemurchus , who survives him .
He leaves also five sons and five daughters .
He was in stature slightly beloy the middle height , and was somewhat shortsighted .
His appearance was striking , and he always retained the look a soldier ; in conversation he was invariably interesting , and one could not fail to be impressed by the vigour of his common sense and by the incisiveness of his views .
It was a privilege to know one who combined in so rare a degree the practical energy of the great administrator and the insight of the man of science .
G. H. D.

