II .
" Investigations of the Specific Heat of Solid and Liquid Bodies .
" By HERMANN Korp , Ph. D. Communicated by T. GRAHAM , Esq. , Master of the Mint .
Received April 16 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) In the first part the author discusses the earlier investigations on the specific heat of solid bodies , and on the relations of this property to their atomic weight and composition .
In this historical report he gives a complete analysis of the various opinions published on the subject .
In the second part the author describes the method he has used for determining the specific heat of solid bodies .
This method is based on the method of mixtures .
The substance investigated is placed in a glass tube , together with some liquid which does not dissolve it , and the tube is heated in a mercury bath , and then rapidly immersed in a calorimeter containing water .
Equalization of temperature takes place rapidly , through the inter .
vention of the liquid in the tube .
The thermal effect ( increase of temperature in the water of the calorimeter ) is determined .
Preliminary experiments give the means of allowing for the thermal effect due to the glass and to the liquid in it , and of thereby obtaining the thermal effect produced by the solid substance .
The author gives a complete description of the apparatus and of the mode of using it , and also of the means of determining the ancillary magnitudes which require to be taken into account .
The entire method is very simple , and it brings the determination of specific heat out of the restricted sphere of the physical cabinet , with its complicated apparatus , within reach of the ordinary appliances of the chemical laboratory .
It is also applicable to small quantities , and to such substances as cannot bear a high temperature .
The author discusses the possible deficiencies as well as the advantages of this method as compared with those of Neuman-n and of Regnault .
In the third part the author gives his determinations of a very great number of solid bodies .
The specific heat of many of them had been determinied by Neumann , or by Regnault ; and the almost universal agreement of the numbers found by their mnethods and by his own proved the comparability of his results with those of other physicists .
Where there is a considerable differelnce , the cause is discussed .
By far the greatest T number of the anithor 's experiments are oln substances whose specific heat had not been previously determined ; they extend to all the more important classes of inorganic compounds , and to a great number of organic compounds .
In the fourth part the author gives a synopsis of the materials at present available and trustworthy for considering the relations between specific heat and atomic weight or composition .
That is , he gives for solid bodies of known composition the atomic formula , the atomic weight , the more trustworthy determinations of specific heat , and ( corresponding to these ) the atomic heats , or products of the specific heats and the atomic weights .
The relations between the atomic heat and the atomic weight or the composition are discussed in the fifth part .
A discussion whether the specific heat of a body varies materially with its different physical conditions forms an introduction to this part .
The influelnce which change of temperature of solid bodies exerts on the specific heat is considered .
This difference is inconsiderable , as is also the difference of specific heats found for the same substance , according as it is hamnmered or annealed , hard or soft .
With dimorphous varieties of the same substance , even where the specific gravity is different , the same specific heat is found in most cases .
Great difference had been supposed to exist in the specific heat of a substance , according as it was crystallinie or amorphous .
The author shows that , for a great number of substances , there is no such difference , and that in other cases the apparent differences depend on inaccurate determiniations of the specific heat .
lIe shows that three sources of error more especially may give too great a specific heat for a substance , or for one of its various modifications : 1 .
When the substaace is heated to a temperature at which it begins to soften , and thus to absorb part of its latent heat of fusion .
2 .
If the substance is heated to a temperature at which it begins to pass into another modification , and this change , with its accompanying development of heat , is continued in the calorimeter .
3 .
If the substance investigated is porous , and ( as was the case in the earlier methods ) is directly immersed in the liquid of the calorimeter , in which case the development of heat which accompanies the moistening of porous substances comes into play .
The author arrives at the following result:-From what is at present known with certainty , one and the same body may exhibit small differences with certain physical conditionls ( temperature , or different degrees of density or porosity ) ; but these di-fferences are never so great as to furnish an explanation of cases in which a body markedly deviates from a regularity which might perhaps have been expected for it-always assuming that the determination of the specific heat , according to which the body in question forms an exception to the regularity , is trustworthy and free from foreign elements .
The author then discusses the applicability of Dalonig and Petit 's law , The atomic heats of many elements * are , in accordance with this law , approximately equal ; they vary between 6 and 6'8 , the average being about 6-4 .
The explanations attempted why this law only approximately holds good , he considers inadequate .
In any case there are individual elements which do not obey this law .
The atomic heat of phosphorus , for instance , as deduced from direct determinations of its specific heat in the solid state , is conisiderably smaller ( about 5 4 ) ; and still more so are those of silicium ( about 4 ) , of boron ( about 2 7 ) , and of carbon ( 1 8 for diamonld ) .
A regularity , to which attention has been already drawn , is , that the quotient obtained by dividing the atomic heat of a compound by the number of elementary atoms in one molecule , is approximately equal to 6-4 ; equal , that is , to the atomic heat of an element according to Dulong and Petit 's law .
Thus the atomic heat of the chlorides IR Cl and R Cl has been found to be 12'8 on the average , and of the chlorides R C12=18'5 .
Now 12=6'4 , and -8 5=6'2 .
The same regularity is met with in 23 metallic bromides , iodides , and arsenides ; and , according to the author 's determinations , it is even founid in the case of compounds which contain as many as seveni , and even of nine elementary atonms .
The atomic heat of 43.4 Zn K Cl4 is 43'4 , and that of Pt K2 Cl0 is 55'2 ; niow _-_ =6.2 and / 55h 2=61 .
But the author shows at the same time that this regularity 9 is far from being general .
For the oxides of the metals the quotient is less than six , and is snmaller the greater the number of atoms of oxygen in the oxide .
( From the average determinations of the atomic heats , it is for the metallic oxides RO =I =5-6 ; for the oxides R11 0 , and.10 27'2 125 =5'4 ; for the oxides 11 02 =37=4 6 .
) The quotient is still smaller for compounds which contain boroni as well as oxygen ( for instance , it is 16'8 =4'2 for the borates , RB 03 ; it is 66 =3.3 for boracic acid , B2 03 ) , 45 or which contain silicium ( for silicic acid , Si 0 , , it is =3 8 ) , or hydro3~~~~~~~~ gen ( for ice , E , itis 86= 29 .
) , or , finally , which contain carbon and bydrogen as well as oxygen ( for succinic acid , C0 HG 04 , for instance , it is 6-9 14 -2 6 ) .
It may be stated in a few words , in what cases this quotient approximates to the atomic heat of most of the elements , and in what cases it is less .
It is near 6-4 in the case of those compounds which only contain elements whose atomic heats , in accordance with Dulong and Petit 's law , are themselves approximately =6 4 .
It is less in those compounds containing elements which , as exceptions to Dulong and Petit 's law , have a considerably smaller atomic heat than 6 4 , and which are found to be exceptions , either directly , by determinations of their specific heat in the solid state , or indirectly , by the method to be subsequently described .
After Dulong and Petit had propounded their law , Neumann showed that a similar regularity existed in the case of compounds , that is , that the atomic heats of analogous compounds are approximately equal .
Regnault , as is known , has confirmed Dulong and Petit 's , as well as Neumann 's law , to a considerably greater extent , and for a larger number of compounds , than had been previously done .
And Regnault 's researches have more especially shown that the elementary atoms , now regarded as monequivalent , are , as regards the atomic heat of their compounds , comparable with the elementary atoms which are to be considered as polvequivalent .
Thus , as regards atomic heat , arsenious acid , As2 03 , and sesquioxide of iron , Fe2 , , , or chloride of silver and subchloride of copper , 2u Cl , may be classed together .
Of the applicability of Neumann 's law , as hitherto investigated and found in the case of chemically analogous comnpounds , the author 's experimental determinations have furnished a number of new examples .
But more interest is presented by his resuilts in reference to the applicability of this law to compounds to which it had not hitherto been supposed to apply .
In comparing compounds as regards their atomic heat , their chemical character has been taken into account , as represented by the formuile hitherto adopted .
Sulphates and chromates , for instance , were looked upon as comparable , but they would not have been classed with perchlorates , or with permanganates .
According to more recent assumptions for the atomic weights of the elements , the following salts have analogous formule , and the adjoined atomic heats have been determined : Chromate of lead ... ... Pb Cr O4 2910 Sulphate of lead ... ... ... ... ... Pb 80 25-8 Permangaiiate of potass ... ... . .
K Mn 0 , 28-3 Perchlorate of potass .
K Cl 04 263 The atomic heats of carbonates , RC 03 of silicates , R Si Q , , of metaphosphates , RP 03 , of nitrates , RN 03 , are also veryi near .
But not even a common chemical behaviour , such as the bodies in this grouip possess-that is , a common haloid character-is necessary in order that compounds of analogous atomic composition shall show the same atomic heat .
No one would think of considering magnetic oxide of iron as analogous to chromate of potass ; and yet both have the same atomic structure , and determinations of their specific heat have given approximately the same atomic heat for both .
Magnetic oxide of iron F. e3 37-7 Chromate of potass. .
K2CrO 36-4 And it is not less surprising that arseniate of potass , K As 0 , , and chlorate of potass have the same atomic heat as sesquioxide of iron , Fe2 O , or arsenious acid , As .
03 : with very different characters these comnpounds have approximately equal atomic heat .
But comparability of chemical compounds , as regards the atomic heat , is not limited to the cases in which , as far as can be judged , the individual atoms have analogous construction .
We do not regard the atom of binoxide of tin or of titanic acid as analogous in construction to the atom of tungstate of lime or of chromate of lead ; nor to nitrate of baryta , or metaphosphate of lime .
But if the formulae of those binoxides are doubled or tripled , they may be compared with these salts , and their atomic heats are then approximately equal , as is the case for compounds of analogous chemical character .
The atomic heats are forBinoxide of tin ... ... . .
2 Sn 2 n20 27-6 Titanic acid ... ... ... ... 2Ti Ti2 04 27 3 Tungstate of lime ... ... ... ... ... 0a 27-9 Chromate of lead .
Pb -r 0 , 29-0 Permanganate of potass .
K Mn 04 28-3 Perchlorate of potass .
K Cl 04 26-3 Binoxide of tin .
3 Sn 02= Sn3 06 414 Titanic acid ... ... ... .
3 TiG2= Ti3 06 41L0 Nitrate of baryta ... ... ... .
Ba N2 06o 38^9 Metaphosphate of lime .
Ca2 06 39 4 These results seem to give to Neumann 's law a validity far beyond the limits to which it had hitherto been considered to apply .
But , on the other hand , the author 's comparisons go to show that neither Neumann 's nor Dulong and Petit 's law is universally valid .
Neumann 's law is only approximate , as is well known .
For such analogouis compounds as , from what we know at present , are quite comparable and , in accordance with this law , ought to have equal atomic heats , Regnault found the atomic heats differing from each other by -1to - .
In a few such cases there are even greater differences in the atomic heats , for which an adequate explanation is still wanting .
But there are other differences in the atomic heats of some compounds which might have been expected to have equality of atomic heat in accordance with Neumann 's law-differences which occur with regularity , and for which an explanation is possible .
Certain elements impress upon all their compounds the common character that their atomic heats are smaller than those of analogous compounds of other elements .
This is the case , for instance , with the compounds of boron : the atomic heat of boracic acid is much less than that of the metallic oxides R2 03 and R2 02 ; the atomic heat of the borates R B } 02 is much less than that of the oxides R,2 02= ( 2 X 0 ) ; and the atomic heat of borate of lead , Pb B , 04 is far less than that of magnetic oxide of iron , Fe , 04 .
The same is the case with compounds of carbon , if the alkaline carbonates , R2 .
, O3 , are compared with the metallic oxides R3 0= ( 3 R 0 ) , or the carbonates R 10 , with the metallic oxides R. 0 , and 2 130 It is seen that the compounds of those elements which , in the free state , have themselves a smaller atomic heat than most other elements , are characterized by a smaller atomic heat .
This leads the author to discuss whethier it is to be assumed that the elements enter into compounds with the atomic heats which they have in the free state .
This assuLmptioni is only admissible provided it can be proved that the atomic heat of a compound depends simply on its empirical formula , and not on the chemical character or rational constitution .
Much of what has previously been said favours this view of the case .
It is also supported by the fact , which the author proves , that similar chemical character in analogous compounds , and even isomorphism , do not presuppose equality in the atomic heats , if in one compoulnd an atomic group ( a compound radical ) stands in the place of an elementary atom of another : for instance , the atomic heat of cyanogeni compounds is considerably greater than those of the corresponding chlorilne compounds , and those of ammonium materially greater than those of the corresponding potassium compounds .
A further support for that assumptionl is found in .
the fact that , regardless of the chemical character , the atomic heat of complex compounds is found to be the sum of the atomic heats of simpler atomic groups , the addition of which gives the formule of those more complex compounds .
A few cases selected from the comparisons of the author may explain this .
The atomic heats have been found , For the oxides..1.0.l ... ... .l , 11'1 For binoxide of tin SnO,2 13 8 Total for ... ..0 ... .3 24 9 For sesquioxide of iron .
Fe2 03 26-8 Or , For oxides 2 R1 0 .
11202 22-2 For binoxide of tin 3 Sn 02. .
= 13 08 41P4 Total for ... ... -308 63*6 For arseniate of lead,..Pb3 As2 08 65'4 Finally , the author shows , as supporting that assumptioni , that ( as was already maintainied ) water is contained in solid compounds with the atomic heat of ice .
The various determinations of the specific heat of ice give the atomic heat of 112 0 at 86 for temperatuires distant from 0 ?
, and at 91 to 98 at temperatures nearer 00 .
The atomnic heat has been found ( to adduce again a few comparisons ) For crystallized chloride of calcium ... .
Ca Cl2 + 611 0 75 6 For anhydrous chlorides .
It Cl2 18 5 Difference for.610 .
6 .
2 57 1 =9.5 6 For crystallized gypsum ... ... ... ... Ca SO , + 21210 45 8 For anhydrous sulphates..e ... ... . .
v SO 26 1 Difference for * , ... .
2H 10 19 7 The opinion that the elements enter into compounds with the atomic beats they have in the free state has beeni already expressed ; but the view has also been defended that the atonmic heat of an element may differ in a compound from what it is in the free state , and may be different in different compounds .
The author discusses the latter view , and criticises the reasons which may be adduced for it ; he comes to the result that it is not proved and is inadmissible .
As the result of all these comparisons and observations , the author arrives at the conclusioni , Each elemenit , in .
the solid state and at an adequate distance from its melting-point , has one specific or atoinic heat , which may inldeed somewhat vary with phvsical conditions ( different temperature , or different density for example ) , but not so much as to niecessitate such variations being taken inlto account in considering the relation in which the specific or the atomic heat stands to the atomic weight or composition .
For each element it is to be assuimed that it has essentially the same specific heat or atomic heat in the free state and in compounds .
Ee then passes on to determine what atomic heats are to be assigned to the individual elements .
As data for determining this he takes ( 1 ) the atomic heats which follow from determinations of the specific heat of the elements in the free , solid state ; ( 2 ) the atomic heats obtained for an element if , from the atomic heat of one of its compounds , which containis beside it only elements of known atomic heat , the atomic heats corresponding to the latter elements are subtracted ; ( 3 ) the difference found between the atomic heats of analogous compoLnds of an element of unknown and of an element of known atomic heat , in which case the difference is taken as being the difference between the atomic heats of these two elements .
The author dwells upon the fact that in the indirect deduction of an element by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) the result may be uncertain , -first , because the atomic heats of compounds are frequently not known with certainty , as is seen by the circumstalnce that anialogous compounds , for which there is every reasoln to expect equal atomic heat , are found experimentally to exhibit considerable differences ; but secondly , because in such deductions the entire relative uncertainty , in the atomic heats for a compound and for that to be subtracted from its composition , is thrown upon a small number , viz. the residue remaining in the deduction .
The details of the considerations by which the author deduces the atomic heat of the individual elements cannot be gone into ; the results simply , which are not all attained with equial certainty , may be adduced .
The author adopts the atomic heat 1 '8 for X , 23 for H , 2'7 for B , 3'7 for Si , 4 for 0 , 5 for Fl , 5'4 for P and X , 6'4 for the other elements for which or for whose compounds the atomic heat is known in somewhat more trustworthy manner , it being left undecided in the case of the latter elements , whether ( in accordance with Dulong and Petit 's law ) they have the same atomic heats , or whether the differences in the atomic heats cannot at present be shown with certainty .
The author gives for all compounds , whose specific heat has been investigated in a trustworthy manner , a comparison of the specific heats found experimentally with those calculated on the above assumption .
The atomic heat of a compound is obtainied by adding the atomic heats of the elements in it , and the specific heat by dividing this atomic heat by the atomic weight .
The calcuilated specific heat of chloride of potassium , KCl is 6 4+6 4=0 172 ; of sulphide of lead , Pb S,64+5-4-=0 0494 ; of 74-623 borate of potass , KB 02 , itis 6 4+27 , + ( 2 x 4)0 0209 ; of tartaric acid , 82 4 i6 t is ( 4 x 18)+(6x 23)+6 x4 0-300 4664 150 The Table , embracing 200 compounds , shows , on the whole , a sufficient agreement between the calculated and the observed specific heats .
The author remarks that a closer agreemrent between calculation and observation cannot be hoped for than that between the observed atomic heats of those compounds for which , from all we know at present , the same'atomic heat is to be expected in conformity with Neumnann 's law , to which in such cases , of course , calculation corresponds .
In on-ly a few cases are differences between calculation and observation met with which exceed these litnits or exceed the deviation between the results of different observers for the same substance .
The author states that be is far from considering the agreement between his calculations and the experimental results as a measure of the accuracy of the latter , since the bases of calculation are too far from being trustworthy .
But he hopes that his Table of atomic heats will soon acquire such corrections , and therewith greater trustworthiness , as was the case with the first Table of atomic weights .
Here , the data for the Table were at first but little certain , and the differences between the calculated and observed composition of chemical compounds very considerable ; but the Table was the means of corrections being introduced by which these differences were diminished .
If calculation of the specific heat does not supersede the necessity of experimental determination in the solid state , and does not give a trustworthy measure for the accuracy of such determinations , it gives a rough control for the experimental determiniations , and it indicates sources of error in the experiments which without it would not have been noticed .
An instance may be adduced .
The author found for sesquichloride of carbon , C , Cl6 , which , according to Faraday , melts at 160 ?
, the specific heat between 20 ?
and 50 ?
to be 0-276 in one series of experiments , and 0-265 in another .
Hence the number 0 27 might from this be taken to express the specific heat of the compound .
But calculation gives ( 2 x 1-8)+(6 x6 4 ) ( 2 x ) ?
( =x0 -6L0177 , a very different number .
A third series of 237 experiments with substance once more recrystallized , gave for the specific heat between 21 ?
and 490 0-278 , confirming the previous determinations .
It might here appear doubtful whether calculation was not refuted by experiment .
The discrepancy was removed by the observation that the suibstance is distinctly more viscous at 500 than it is at lower temperatures , and by the suspicion that it might at 500 ( that is , 100 ?
below its meltingpoint ) already absorb some of its latent heat of vitreous fusion .
This was found to be the case ; two concordant series of experiments gave as the mean of the specific heat the numbers : Between 18 ?
and 370 ... ... ... .
0-178 Between 18 ?
and 430 ... ... ... .
0-194 Between 18 ?
and 500 .
0277 The first two numbers differ so little that it may be supposed the number found for temperatures below 370 is very near the true specific heat of this compound ; it also agrees well with the calcuilated number .
In the sixth part the author enters into considerations on the nature of the chemical elements .
ie calls to mind the discrepancy which has prevailed , and still prevails , in reference to certain bodies , between their actual indecomposability , and the considerations , based on analogy , according to which they were held to be compound .
Even after Davy had long proclaimed the elementary nature of chlorine , it was maintained that it contained oxygen .
In regard both to that substance and to bromine and iodine , the view that they are peroxides of unknown elements still finds defenders .
That iodine , by a direct determination of specific heat , and chlorine , by indirect deduction , are found to have an atomic heat in accordance with Dulong and Petit 's law , puts out of doubt that iodine and chlorine , if compound at all , are not more so than the other elements to which this law is considered to apply .
According to Dulong and Petit 's law , compounds of analogous atomic composition have approximately equal atomic heats .
In general , compounds whose atom consists of a larger number of undecomposable atoms , or is of more complex constitution , have greater atomic heat .
Especially in those compounds all of whose elements follow Dulong and Petit 's law , is the magnitude of the atomic heat a measure of the complication , or of the degree of complication .
If Dulong and Petit 's law were universally valid , it might be concluded with great certainty that the so-called elements , if they are really compounds of unknown simpler substances , are compounds of the same order .
It would be a remarkable result , if the art of chemical decomposition had everywhere reached its limits at such bodies as , if at all compound , have the same degree of composition .
Let us imagine the simplest bodies , perhaps as yet unknown to ils , the true chemical elements , to form a horizontal layer , and above them to be arraniged the more simple and then the more complicated compounds ; the general-validity of Dulong and Petit 's law would include the proof that all the elements at present assumed to be such by chemists lay in the same layer , and that , in admitting hydrogen , oxygen , sulphur , chlorine , and the various metals as elements , chemistry has penetrated to the same depth in that range of inquiry , and has found at the same depth the limit to its advance .
But with the proof that this law is not universally true , the conclusion to which this result leads loses its authority .
If we start from the elements at present assumed in chemistrv , we must admit rather that the magnitude of the atomic heat of a body does not depend on the number of elementary atoms contained in a molecule , or on the complication of its composition , but on the atomnic heat of the elementary atoms which enter into its composition .
It is possible that a decomposable body may have the same atomic heat as an element .
Chlorine might certainly be the peroxide of an unknown element which had the atomic heat of hydrogeln ; the atomic heat of peroxide of hydrogen , HO , in the solid state or in solid compounds , must be =2'3+4=6'3 , agreeing very nearly with the atomic heats of iodine , chlorine , and the elements which follow Dulong and Petit 's law .
In a very great number of compounds the atomic heat gives more or less accurately a measure for the complication of the composition .
And this is also the case with those compounds which , from their chemical deportment , are comparable to the undecomposed bodies .
If ammonium or cyanogen had not been decomposed , or could not be by the chemical means at present available , the greater atomic heats of the compounds of these bodies , as compared with analogous potassium or chlorine compounds , and the greater atomic heats of ammonium and cyanogen obtained by indirect determiination , as compared with those of potassium and chlorine , would indicate the compound nature of those so-called compourid radicals .
The conclusion appears legitimate , that , for the so-called elements , the directly or indirectly determined atomic heats are a measure for the complication of their composition .
Carbon and hydrogen , for example , if not themselves actually simple bodies , are yet simpler compounds of unknown elements than silicium or oxygen ; and still more complex are the elements which may be considered as following Dulong and Petit 's law .
It may appear surprising , and even improbable , that so-called elements , which can replace each other in compounds , as for instance hydrogen and the metals , or which enter into isomorphous compounds as corresponding elements , like silicium and tin , should possess unequal atomic heats and unequal complication of composition .
But this really is not more surprising than that undecomposable bodies and obviously compound bodies , hydrogen and hyponitric acid , or potassium and ammonium , should , without altering the chemical character of the compound , replace one another , or even be present ill isomorphous compounds as corresponding constituents .
The author concludes his memoir with the following words:- " I have here expressed opinions , in reference to the nature of the so-called elements , which appear to depend upon allowable conclusions from welldemonstrated principles .
It is of the nature of the case , that with these opinions the certain basis of the actual , and of what can be empirically proved , is left .
It must also not be forgotten that these conclusions only give some sort of clue as to which of the present undecomposable bodies are of more complicated , and which of simpler composition , and nothing as to what the simpler substances are which are contained in the more complicated .
Consideration of the atomic heats may declare something as to the structure of a compound atom , but can give uo information as to the qualitative nature of the simpler substances used in the construction of the compoulnd atoms .
But even if these conclusions are not free from uncertainty and imperfection , they aippear to me worthy of attention in a subject which is still so shroudedin darkniess as the nature of the undecomposed bodies .
"

