VII .
A Letter from Mr. Ralph Thoresby , to Dr. Martin Lister , Coll. Med. Lond. &amp; S.R S. giving an Account of a Roman Pottery , near Leeds in Yorkshire .
SIR , I Had once the Happiness in my Father 's time to see you here , and take very kindly your honourable mention of him in your curious Letter Published in the Philosophical Collect .
No 4 .
The Altar is yet with me , with a considerable addition of other Curiosities , relating as well to Antiquitys as natural Rarities , to which ( if I misremember not ) you was a Benefactor , in bestowing some valuable scars of a Coraline Urn , and of a Jet Ring , with some Indian Fruit , &amp;c. my natural Propension to such things steals away more time then I can well afford , and makes me also troublesome to such generous tempers , as I find as well willing as able to assist me ; and therefore I presume this once to desire your thoughts concerning a Roman Pottery that I have lately discovered in my Survey of this Parish .
It is upon Blackmore , about two Miles from Leedes ( the old Leogeolium ) the Name Hawcaster rig gave me the first occasion to hope for some Roman Ruins there ; but instead of the Remains of a regular Camp or Fortification , I was surprised to find several Rounds , or circular Heaps of Rubbish , abundantly too small for any Military use ; one by the Wheel was Sixteen Perches round , another in walking Seventy six Paces , and these I take to be Ruins of some of the very Furnaces ; it is a Sandy Ground , yet plenty of Clay at no great distance ; the Country People tell me of heaps of Stagg and Cinders , but I had not the hap to meet with any , the place being grown over with Moss , &amp;c. and the whole at present covered with Snow , that I can make no further Discovery till more seasonable Weather ; in the mean time I should be glad to know of you the bigness of those Metae you observed at Santon , and what Authors treat of the Roman Plasticks .
I am ready to fancy these might be for their Bricks , because of the great plenty of Clay in the Neighbourhood , and the great number of those Roman Bricks , yet to be seen in the Ruins of Kirkstall-Abbey , and that it belonged to the Romans , I conclude , partly because the Inhabitants have no Tradition of any Modern Pottery , but chiefly because it is seated upon a Branch of the Roman way , or one of their Viae Vicinnales , that leads from the great Military Road upon Bramham moor , by Thorner , Shadwell , and Kirkstall to Cambodunum , besides the very name seems to import some Roman Castrum .
Near the adjoining Eminency that the Saxons called Haws or Hougs , and the word is yet retained in some parts of Yorkshire , witness Hamleton-Hough in the Road to Selby ; and to conclude , the village that succeeded the Old Pottery is called PotterNewton .
If you please , Sir , to favour me with a Line , that I may have your Sanction , if these Conjectures be so happy as to merit it , you will thereby very much honour , Worthy Sir , Yours , &amp;c.

