142 On the Structure , Sfc .
, of Fossil Reptilia .
[ Apr. 26 , Y. " Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
IV .
On a Large Humerus from the East Brak River , South Africa , indicating a New Order of Fossil Animals which was more nearly intermediate between Reptiles and Mammals than the Groups hitherto known .
" By II .
G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The late Mr. A. G. Bain sent to the British Museum a bone , No. 36,250 , which the author regards as a right humerus .
It is 32 cm .
long .
The crests at its proximal end are compared with those in the corresponding bone of Saurischia , Omithosaurs , and Anomodonts ; and they show a strong general resemblance to the crests seen in Monotremes , though their direction may be more reptilian .
The distal end of the bone is entirely mammalian in plan .
Its resemblances are about equally strong to Edentata and Monotre-mata , and there are evidences of more distant relationship with Insectivora , with certain Mhrsupials , seals , and other Carnivora .
On the whole the evidence is insufficient to refer the fossil to the Monotremata .
It is named Propappus omocratus .
The author proposes to associate with it Stereorachis of Professor Gaudry , in an order named Gennetotheria .
While the humerus of Stereorachis only differs from Monotremes in generic characters , and conforms in plan to the monotreme rather than the edentate type , the shoulder-girdle is intermediate between Echidna and the Anomodont , and the dentition resembles that of reptiles like Lycosaurus and other Theriodonts .
VI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
V. On Associated Bones of a Small Anomodont Reptile cord ulus , Seeley ) , showing the Relative Dimensions of the Anterior Parts of the Skeleton , and Structure of the Fore-limb and Shoulder-girdle .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This specimen was collected by Mr. Thomas Bain at Klip Fontein , Fraser 's Berg , and registered in the British Museum as 49,413 .
The head is described in detail , and except in the very small size of the teeth , shows no difference of importance from the skulls attributed to Dicynodon .
1888 .
] On the First and Second Visceral Arches .
143 The shoulder-girdle is described and restored , and found to consist of interclavicle , clavicles , sternum , coracoids , pre-coracoids , and scapula ? .
The scapula is in plan like Kistecephalus .
The nearest approach to the coracoid and pre-coracoid is found among the mono-treme mammals .
The clavicle extended along the anterior margin of the scapula , and made an angular bend , so as probably to meet the interclavicle .
The interclavicle appears to meet the lateral margins of the coracoids and not to overlap them in front .
It approximates in form to the bone in Ornithorhynchus , , and certain lizards , but is relatively much larger , and is larger than the interclavicle of Stereorachis .
The sternum , which is transversely extended , is better compared with that of a lizard or Dinosaur .
The shoulder-girdle as a whole is intermediate between monotreme mammals and known reptiles , but with the former type predominating .
The bones of the fore-limb are described in detail , and found to be relatively long and slender and generically unlike Dicynodon .
The carpus is complicated .
There are only two phalangeal bones in each digit , the second bone being a well-developed claw .
Finally a restoration is given of the aspect of the animal .
VII .
" On the Modifications of the First and Second Visceral Arches , with especial Reference to the Homologies ol the Auditory Ossicles .
" By Hans Gadow , Ph. D. , M.A. , Strickland Curator and Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The phylogenetic development of the first visceral arches shows us some most interesting changes of function , which we can follow upwards from the lower Selachians to the highest Mammals .
Originally entirely devoted to respiration as gill-bearing structures , the whole hyoidean arch becomes soon a factor in the alimentary system .
Its proximal half forms the hinge of the masticatory apparatus , its distal half remains henceforth connected with the process of deglutition .
Then this suspensorial arrangement is superseded by a new modification ; the hyomandibula is set free and would disappear ( it does nearly do so in Dipnoi and certain Urodela ) , unless it were made use of for a new function ; with its having entered the service of the conduction of sound , it has entered upon a new departure , and it is saved from degeneration .
The whole system of the one to four elements of the middle ear , which all have the same function as conductors of sound , is to be looked upon as one organ of one common VOL. XL1V .
l

