200 Mr. W. B. Hardy and Miss E. G. Willcock .
[ July 21 , " On the Oxidising Action of the Bays from Badium Bromide as shown by the Decomposition of Iodoform .
" By W. B. Hardy , E.B.S. , Caius College , Cambridge , and Miss E. G. Willcock , Newnham College , Cambridge .
Beceived July 21 , 1903 .
In the course of certain experiments one of us noticed that a solution of crystals of pure iodoform in chloroform rapidly became purple .
The colour change is due to the liberation of iodine , and the purple solution readily gives the starch test , and is decolourised by thiosulphate .
This decomposition of iodoform occurs in a variety of solvents , namely , in chloroform , benzene , carbon bisulphide , carbon tetrachloride , pyri-clene , amyl alcohol , and ethylic alcohol .
In alcohol the change is shown only by a deepening of the original yellow tint of the solution to brown ; iodine when dissolved in alcohol having a yellow-brown tint .
As the reaction itself seems not to have been described , a few words may be devoted to it before passing to the main point\#151 ; namely , the influence of the rays from radium upon this chemical change .
The liberation of the iodine needs the presence of oxygen\#151 ; though exceedingly minute amounts are sufficient\#151 ; and some form of radiant energy .
When oxygen is washed out by a stream of CO2 , or the vapour of the solvent , no change takes place ; the solution of iodoform retains its faint yellow tint in full daylight .
If a minute quantity of oxygen be left behind , the colour deepens in daylight to a brownish-yellow , but iodine is not liberated\#151 ; the solution will not give the starch test .
That is to say , there is an intermediate stage of chemical change which is reached in presence of minute amounts of oxygen , and which falls short of the actual liberation of iodine .
If a pair of platinum electrodes be dipped in a solution which is in process of changing to purple , and a field ( \#177 ; 4 volts per centimetre ) be established , a heavy , oily , colourless liquid slowly drips from each electrode .
The nature of this liquid has not yet been determined , but from its specific gravity probably it is methylene iodide .
In the complete absence of any radiant energy , and in presence of abundant oxygen , the solution of iodoform undergoes no change at ordinary temperatures .
When heated to near the boiling point , however , the solutions change even in the dark .
Salts , when present , have a remarkable influence on the reaction , although they can hardly be said to be soluble in the reagents employed .
For instance , if a solution of iodoform in benzene be divided into two parts , and to one part solid sodium chloride be added , and then both be heated , the one with the salt decomposes much more rapidly .
Compared in this way , it was found that 1903 .
] Oxidising Action of the Bays from Radium .
201 NaCl ; KC1 ; KN03 ; Pb(N03)2 ; Ba(N03)2 ; BaCh accelerate K2SO4 ; CaC03 ; BaS04 ; MgC03 retard .
It is remarkable that the salts which were tried should so group themselves that those with univalent acids accelerate , those with bivalent acids retard .
The influence of salts appears to be purely a case of surface action .
If the salt first be heated for a few minutes with two changes of the solvent ( benzene ) , it entirely loses its power.* Probably owing to obscure catalytic action of this kind one finds that in certain apparently clean test-tubes the very sensitive solution of iodoform in chloroform changes to purple even in the dark .
The catalysing power of such a tube , however , is very rapidly exhausted .
Probably also owing to catalytic action some samples of iodoform decompose when dissolved in chloroform even in complete darkness .
The impurity which brings about this apparently spontaneous change can be distilled off by suspending the sample in water and boiling for a considerable time .
The first distillate condenses as a red liquid , when this ceases to come over the distillate will be found to be approximately or quite stable .
The impurity can be got rid of more effectively by recrystallising from ethylic alcohol .
The chemical feature on which we wish to lay most stress is that for the liberation of iodine oxygen is needed\#151 ; it is in all probability due to an oxidation , and , like many oxidation processes , it is carried on , under ordinary circumstances and at ordinary temperatures , only in the presence of light .
The reaction , on the one hand , is a delicate test for the presence of oxygen , on the other , a convenient method for measuring the .chemical activity of various rays .
We found the trace of oxygen which remains after C02 has been bubbled through the chloroform , and over the iodoform for one hour , sufficient to produce a decisive .change of tint .
The beautiful purple colour which the liberated iodine makes in solvents other than alcohol , lends itself readily to measurements which may be made by choosing some solution of iodine in chloroform as a standard colour and matching the fluids under examination with it .
The reaction , when once started , continues for a time in absolute darkness and then ceases .
Thus , if light be allowed to play upon a tube so as to produce , say , a faint purple tint , and the tube then be removed to the dark , the faint purple tint will deepen to a certain extent .
On renewed exposure to light the action recommences .
* According to Wiirster ( 'Ber .
d. Deut .
Chem. G-esellschaft , ' vol. 19 , p. 3201 ) , finely powdered bodies in general occlude " active " oxygen .
The two carbonates , however , were the most finely powdered of the salts used .
Mr. W. B. Hardy and Miss E. G. Willcock .
[ July 21 , Action of the Radiations from Radium .
We used 5 milligrammes of pure radium bromide , supplied by Buchler \amp ; Co. , of Brunswick , and we found that a solution of iodoform in chloroform was turned deep purple by simply resting the test-tube containing it on a plate of mica covering the radium salt .
That is to say , the active rays penetrate mica and glass .
They also penetrate cardboard .
Tubes containing a solution of iodoform in chloroform were enclosed in a box of black cardboard , and they remained unchanged for 60 hours .
On placing the box over the radium salt the tubes became purple in about 10 minutes .
For the following reasons we believe that the active rays from radium are entirely different from the active rays of light .
The active rays of sunlight are completely arrested by an opaque layer of lamp-black deposited over a test-tube , by black cardboard , by aluminium , or , in short , by any substance opaque to visible light rays .
The active radium rays traverse lamp-black , black cloth , or cardboard , and aluminium sheet 1 mm. thick , without any measurable loss .
An ordinary yellow gas-light was found to emit active rays in quantity sufficient to change iodoform dissolved in chloroform at 1 foot distant in a few minutes , even when the test-tube was jacketed with water in order to prevent any heating .
There is , therefore , no reason to believe that the activity associated with light is different from the ordinary chemical activity of light .
The radium rays which produce the change were identified by measuring the effect of screens upon the time necessary to produce a standard depth of purple in 1 c.c. of a standard solution of iodoform in chloroform .
A comparison of radium unscreened and screened so as completely to intercept the a rays , failed to show any action on the part of these rays .
Attention was then turned to the more penetrating f3 and y rays .
A corked test-tube was suspended at a constant distance from the radium ( approximately 3 mm. ) , the same test-tube being used throughout .
1 c.c. of the standard solution was used for each measurement .
In these measurements the wall of the test-tube was always present as a screen .
Time necessary to read the standard colour\#151 ; Minutes .
^^ JVfean s. 1 .
Radium uncovered ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 13 12 13 12 '6 2 .
Thin screen of mica ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
11 12*5 12 11*8 3 .
" , , and sheet of writing paper . .
12 \#151 ; \#151 ; 12 *0 4 .
Glass , \#177 ; 0'5mm ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15 14*5 14*5 14*8 5 .
Aluminium , \#177 ; 1 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
15 *5 15*5 15 *5 15 *5 6 .
Lead plate , \#177 ; 2 mm. thick ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
between 200\#151 ; 250 225 *0 7 .
# Four lead plates , each db 2 mm. thick ... ... .
less than 1000 \lt ; 1000 # In this case the distance between the radium and the solution was , of course , increased in order to make room for the screens .
1903 .
] Oxidising Action of the from Radium .
203 Professor Rutherford was good enough roughly to measure the stopping power of the screens actually used .
Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 stopped all the a rays .
No. 6 stopped 80 per cent , of the rays , and allowed the y rays to pass .
No. 7 stopped practically all the rays , and allowed only y rays to pass .
The obvious conclusion from these figures is that the action is mainly due to the / 3 rays\#151 ; that is to say , to the stream of negative electrons. .
On the other hand , the fact that action is not arrested by as many as four of the lead screens makes it certain that the very penetrating y rays also are chemically active .
As the y rays are said to be the same as the Rontgen rays\#151 ; that is to say , ethereal pulses\#151 ; the action of the latter was tried by exposing tubes of iodoform dissolved in chloroform , which were enclosed in light-tight cardboard boxes .
The Rontgen rays were found to be active , the solutions were purple at the end of 15 minutes .
An exact comparison of the relative activity of light , radium rays and Rontgen rays cannot be attempted , but the experiments prove that light is the most active .
The difference appears to be very great .
The profound and often lethal physiological action of radium rays must therefore , for the present , be looked upon as being due to their power of penetration rather than to the fact that they exert any novel or very intense action .
They reach parts which are shielded by a cuticle very impervious to light waves .
Viewed in this way the pigmentation of the human skin found in tropical races , and in those exposed to sunlight , may be regarded as an increased protection to the internal .structures which acts by increasing the opacity of the epidermis .
One of us has already shown that the a rays profoundly modify the physical state of colloidal solutions.* If the colloid particles be electrically negative , the a rays act as coagulants ; if the colloid particles be electrically positive they act as solvents , that is to say , the rays decrease the average size of the particles .
As a provisional basis for investigating the physiological action of radium rays we may therefore regard the a rays as altering the physical state of the living matter , the ( 3 and y rays as altering the chemical processes , especially perhaps the oxidation processes of the tissues .
It may be well to mention briefly the instances of chemical decomposition produced by radium rays which have been described up to .
the present .
Berthelotf gives the following cases .
Iodic acid is decomposed with liberation of iodine by rays from radium and by light .
Unlike the liberation of iodine from iodoform the change proceeds very slowly , free iodine being present only after 14 days ' exposure .
Nitric acid * * Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 29 , 1903 , p. xxix .
f ' Comptes Eendus , ' toI .
133 , 1901 , p. 659 .
204 Sir W. Eamsay and Mr. F. Soddy .
Radioactivity [ July 28 , forms nitrous fumes when acted upon by the radium rays or by light .
Becquerel* mentions the case of mercuric chloride which in presence of oxalic acid is decomposed by light rays , and by radium rays .
" Experiments in Eadioactivity , and the Production of Helium from Badium .
" By Sir William Eamsay , K.C.B. , F.E.S. , and Frederick Soddy , M.A. Eeceived July 28 , 1903 .
1 .
Experiments on the Radioactivity of the Inert Gases of the Atmosphere .
Of recent years many investigations have been made by Elster and Geitel , Wilson , Strutt , Butherford , Cooke , Allen , and others on the spontaneous ionisation of the gases of the atmosphere and on the excited radioactivity obtainable from it .
It became of interest to ascertain whether the inert monatomic gases of the atmosphere bear any share in these phenomena .
For this purpose a small electroscope contained in a glass tube of about 20 c.c. capacity , covered in the interior with tin-foil , was employed .
After charging , the apparatus if exhausted retained its charge for thirty-six hours without diminution .
Admission of air caused a slow discharge .
In similar experiments with helium , neon , argon , krypton , and xenon , the last mixed with oxygen , the rate of discharge was proportional to the density and pressure of the gas .
This shows that the gases have no special radioactivity of their own , and accords with the explanation already advanced by these investigators that the discharging power of the air is caused by extraneous radioactivity .
Experiments were also made with the dregs left after liquefied air had nearly entirely evaporated , and again with the same result ; no increase in discharging power is produced by concentration of a possible radioactive constituent of the atmosphere .
2 .
Experiments on the Nature of the Radioactive Emanation from Radium .
The word emanation originally used by Boyle ( " substantial emanations from the celestial bodies " ) was resuscitated by Butherford to designate definite substances of a gaseous nature continuously produced from other substances .
The term was also used by Bussell ( " emanation from hydrogen peroxide " ) in much the same sense .
If the adjective " radioactive " be added , the phenomenon of Butherford is distinguished from the phenomena observed by Bussell .
* Ibid , , vol. 133 , 1901 , p. 709 .

