I. A Letter from Mr Antony Van Leewnenhoek , F. R. S concerning Cochineel .
Delft in Holland , March 21 , 1704 .
A Merchant of Amsterdam writ me a very obliging Letter of the 7th ult .
wherein he takes notice , that he has perused my observations about Cochineel , and entreats me in very civil terms , that I would please to read his Remarks also , ( which he has divided into seven parts ) upon the same subject : I shall not rehearse them all to you , because it would take me up too much time , but only a few of the most considerable Points .
The said Gentleman affirms , that it is impossible , and altogether incredible , that the Drug called Cochineel should be ( as I have asserted ) Flies , or any sort of Animal endued with Wings , Head or Feet ; not only if we consider the vast number of 'em brought in every Fleet from America ; for you 'll find that two of the biggest of these Particles , eight of the middling sort , and twenty of the smallest do hardly weigh a gold Grain , so that in a pound of 'em , at a Medium of great and small , one may count 102400 Particles ; now in a Fleet that brings 200000 Pounds of this Drug , what an infinite number of Animals must there be ?
Besides , says he , where can you find Men enough , who at the proper time of the year shall catch these Insects , and dismember every individual by pulling off its Head , Legs and Wings , &amp;c. so that upon the whole matter he concludes , that Cochineel most needs be a Fruit , or the Excrescence of some kind of Plant .
Tho I am clear in my opinion , that Cochineel is nothing else but the Trunk or hinder part of a living Creature , and was persuaded also that the Cochineel Animals , like other Insects , from Worms , are changed into Flies ; yet to content the above mentioned Merchant , as well as for my own further satisfaction , I have thought fit to renew my Inquiries upon this subject ; and in so doing , I must reject some of my former Positions , being now fully convinced , that the Cochineel Animals are not produced from Worms , but at once bring forth their own Likenesses .
I have therefore , as well as I was able , made an Extract out of the Philosophical Transactions , Numb. 193 .
page .
502 .
for the Months of March , April , May and June , where is said as follows .
Observations about the making of Cochineel , according to the Account of an old Spaniard of Jamaica , that had lived a great many years in those Parts .
IT is there said , that there is a certain Plant called the Prickle Pear , or Indian Fig ; the Leaves of which are round and thick , and sharp pointed ; that upon the Leaves or Twigs of the said Plant , are small Knobs or Protuberances , from whence are produced by the Heat of the Sun , little Worms , that these Worms in process of time become Flies , in likeness to Cow-ladies or Ladybirds , as some call 'em , which when they are arrived to their full Growth , are thus taken : To Windward of the Plant , on which these Animals are found , they kindle a Fire of any combustible matter ( having first spread Cloaths under , and round about the said Plant ) with the Smoke of which they are presently suffocated ; then shaking the Tree , they catch them upon those Cloaths in great numbers , and with very little trouble ; after which they spread them abroad in a like Cloath on a Sandy Place , or a Stone-floor , where they are exposed to the Heat of the Sun , till they are dried that is , till their small Bodies are shriveld up together , and rubbed between the Hands , till their Wings , Legs , &amp;c. fall off , which are garbl 'd out , and then the remaining Trunks of the Animals are put into shallow Copper Boxes , till they become quite dry .
The abovesaid Plant has no Flowers or Blossoms on it , and the Fruit of it is of a fleshy substance and red , and when it is ripe , if you handle it , your Fingers will look as if they were stained with Mulberries .
Some say , that the Cochineel Worms feed upon the Blossoms and Fruit of this Plant , which causes their Bodies to be of that red colour .
And that if you take the Seed of the Plant , or the dead Worms , and dry them after the above-mentioned manner , that Cochineel is not so good as when those Animals have got Wings , and are then smothered .
Now for my further satisfaction , I took several Particles of this same Cochineel , as well of the largest as of the smallest , and having dissected them , I found that they had all Eggs in their Bellies , save only one that was exceeding small , and there I could discover no Eggs .
When I had opened some of the biggest Trunks , and separated the Eggs , which I took out of their Bodies , as well as I could from each other , and counted 'em also as nicely as I was able , I judged that there were above two hundred ; and having observed several of them with my Microscopes , I could perceive not only a Membrane or Shell upon the most of them , but also an Animalculum of an oval Shape included in the said Shell , and almost as big as the Shell , that contained it ; this seemed to me at first very strange , and a Phenomenon almost incredible in so large a Species of Flies , as is the Cochineel .
I set my self then , as nicely as I was able , to discover the truth of this matter , and I laboured the Egg-shell so long , till I was fully satisfied , that it was really an Animalculum that lay within it .
I pursued this my operation with so good success , that I did not only separate the Egg-shell from the Animalculum , but in some of them I could perceive their Legs also orderly folded up against their Body , and could separate them from it , especially in such as were full grown ; yea , in some of 'em I did even discover the several Joints of the Legs ; and this good fortune I had not only in one , or ten , but in the space of two days , I saw the Legs of a hundred Animalcula , many of which , in my handling , were broken off , and lay by themselves .
One must not imagine , that these Animalcula have such short Legs as the Caterpillars or Silk-Worms , but the unborn ones have , in proportion to their b gness , as long Legs , I believe , as those that are full grown ; and as the Legs of those unborn Animalcula stand close to the Head , in that part which one may call the Breast , so when the said Animalculum lay stretched out at length , its little Legs could be just seen peeping out of the Body .
Thus are they mistaken , who give the name of Worms to these ( at first ) despised Animalcula , and the reason of their Error proceeds from hence , That thro the exceeding smallness of the object , they are not able to discover with their naked Eye , whether the new teem 'd Insect be a Worm , or any other kind of Animal : As for the Eggs of these Animals , I think , I need not measure them , for they that understand Cochineel , may guess at their size when we assert that 200 or more Eggs can lye in so small a Particle of matter , as a single grain of Cochineel ; to which , if you add the consideration of the great number of Blood Vessels lying in so narrow a Compass , and that each Egg receives its Nourishment and Increase ( as it certainly must ) by a String or Artery , yea , and that proU uuuuuuuu bably bably there are Veins in every String for the carrying on the Circulation of the Blood , how can we sufficiently admire the Depth of Almighty Wisdom , and how unscrutable are all his Works ?
I must not omit to acquaint you , that the Shape of the Eggs of the Cochineel-Fly , is very like that of our Hen-Eggs .
When I cast my Eye upon some of these Embryos , after I had divested them of the Membrane or Shell in which they were shut up , I observed on their Head , a kind of a Tool or Instrument , about a fifth part as long as the whole Body of the Animalculum , and at the end thereof a very slender point , something like that Instrument which Nature hath provided those Animalcula with , that are found upon Currant Bushes , &amp;c. and by which they get their Food ( according to the Descriptions I have given thereof formerly ) and when they have so done , they clap it to their Breasts till they have occasion for it again .
From whence I infer that the Cochineel Flies do also acquire their Food after the same manner , to wit , that they have no Teeth whereby to gnaw the Leaves of the Plant they dwell on , as Silk-Worms do , but that they only insinuate their said Instrument into the Leaves , and after that manner get their nourishment .
This notion of mine seems to be supported by what the old Spaniard said , viz. that these Animalcula feed on the Blossoms and Fruits of the Plant , and that by those means they became red .
From whence we may conclude , that the Insects do n't hurt the Leaves , Fruits , nor even the Blossoms of Trees , as far as we can discover , which may also the better satisfy us , that the Cochineel Flies , with the abovemention 'd Instrument , by boring into the Leaves , acquire both their Food and Increase .
I acquainted you before , that I had examined some of the smallest Particles of the Cochineel ; my only aim was to be satisfied , ( as I supposed , ) that they were the Trunks or Bodies of the Male-Flie ; and indeed we see , that in all small Flies , that are produced from Worms or Maggots , ( at least it is my observation ) the smallest are always the Males ; and this Rule holds good also in Flies and Lice , among which also , the hinder parts of their Female Bodies are always bigger , by reason of their being so often impregnated with Eggs ; but when I thought I was sure that the little ones were all Males , and had soakt their Trunks thoroughly in Water , in order to some further Inquiries , I then imagined , ~that all the Cochineel Flies are Females , and that hardly one fourth Part of 'em was arrived to their full growth , before that their Bodies are filled with young ; but these are only Surmises that occurred to me at that time .
This Position of mine , that all the Cochineel Flies are Females , may seem very strange , and perhaps not meet with credit by those that maintain there can be no Animal generated without a Copulation of Male and Female ; but they would be of another opinion if they had seen the unspeakable number of Animalcula , which last Summer infested the Leaves of the Lime-trees , or those other that were found upon Currant Trees , Cherry Trees or Hazel-Nut Trees , all which Animalcula bring forth young alive , and these young ones being very little , have their Bodies filled with other young , and are all Females , and consequently there is no Copulation among them : these , when they are full grown get Wings , so that there is no other Change in them , than increasing in bulk , and the sprouting out of Wings .
Now if this be true in these above-mentioned Animalcula , altho they are fifty times smaller than the Cochineel Flies , we may easily believe the same of these also , especially since the hinder parts of all of 'em are Uuuuuuuuu2 much much alike ; in confirmation of which we may add , that Eels , Prawns or Shrimps have also no Males among them .
You may remember , the old Spaniard said moreover , that when the Cochineel Flies are dry , they rub them between their Hands , and so the Wings , &amp;c. are separated from the remaining Trunk ; but if he had been more exact in his observations , he might have found , that not only the Wings were thus separated from the hinder part of the Body , but also the upper part , with which goes also the Legs , the Wings and the Head .
And if one observes the lower part or Belly of these Animalcula , one may perceive that it is divided from the upper , by nothing but a kind of a short string , no thicker than a Hogs Bristle , so that one part may be easily separated from the other , especially when the Animalcula are dried : Now this upper and lower part of the Body are placed so near each other , that they will easily appear to the naked Eye to have been always united .
Furthermore the old Spaniard affirms , that the Cochineel is not so good till the Animalcula have got Wings ; from whence we might be apt to conclude , that the Cochineel Animalcula do become Flying Creatures all together , just as it happens to Silk Worms , which from Reptiles , are all changed , and that in a very short time , into Butterflies .
But the Case is quite otherwise with these Cochineel Flies ; ( at least as far as it appears to us ) for they dont lay their Eggs all together , or in one day ; but I rather suppose , that one of these Animalcula at one time brings forth twenty Eggs or young ones , and so they require above ten days before they can be delivered of all their Eggs , for after I had taken 200 Eggs out of some of the Cochineel Flies , I saw exceeding small ones still remaining in the Ovarium or Egg-nest In my observations upon the Lime trees , I saw not only several Animalcula that had Wings , but divers others much smaller , and that in a gradual Descent , so far that many of 'em were hatched that very day ; and these observations I did not make at one certain season of the year , but found that they continued to hatch , as long as the days were moderately warm .
And so I reckon it is with that Animalculum likewise , whose Trunk or lower parts compose what we call Cochineel ; at least it was my opinion , after I had sufficiently observed several Grains of Cochineel given me by three different persons ; for when I opposed some of the largest grains of Cochineel against the smallest , so far as I was able to distinguish by my Glasses , I found that 15 of the small ones were hardly equal to one of the great ; and when I viewed the Powder or Dust of theCochineel , which I took out of the bottom of a Box , I met with some Trunks of those Flies so very small , that I judged 100 of them unequal to one large Grain .
Since there is not one man in a thousand , that has any knowledge of Cochineel , nor of the size of its Grains , I have thought fit to cause one of them to be designed by my Limner , see Fig. I. A B. I took another Grain of Cochineel , and placed it before a Microscope , and caus 'd it to be drawn just as it appeared to the Limner , as you may see in Fig 2 .
CDEFG .
the extreme Parts being described by C , and by OF , a seeming Orifice , which is the Part where the String was broken off , and by which both parts of the Body were joined together .
The Concave Bows or Circles that appear in the Cochineel grain DEFG , are not natrurally but adventitious to the said Grain , and proceeds only from the drying or shricking up of the great number of Eggs ~ lye within the Animalculus ; for if the said Grain were well ~ and plumpt up with Water , those concave parts would become convex , and be also more obvious to sight as well as the Stem of that String we just now mentioned .
But if you take one of the largest Grains , and which is somewhat flat , that part of the Trunk will not shrink inwards , the reason whereof I imagine to be , That the Animalculum , before it was killed , had discharged most of its Eggs .
I caused some of these Cochineel grains to be steeped in Rain Water about 24 hours , and then opened ~em in the presence of the Limner , the reason of which was , that when the Eggs and the young ones in 'em were dry , they were so shrivel 'd , as I took 'em out , that it was impossible for him to discover or represent their Figure .
Fig. 3 .
HI K. shows you an Egg with its Shell or Membrane , as it was taken out of a grain of Cochineel , in which Egg one might see the young one within , and the Shell surrounding it .
This Egg was drawn by the same Microscope , as Fig. 2 .
and when we looked upon it so long till the Egg became dry , the Shell or Membrane would become so shrivel 'd , that we could no longer have a distinct view of it .
Fig. 4 .
LM N. represents an unborn Cochineel Animalculum , which I had separated ~from the Egg-shell with a great deal of pains ; the Animalculum lay with its Back to my sight , and in such a posture as to show three of its Legs .
By Fig. 5 .
OPQR S. is shown a small Particle of the Vessels belonging to an Ovarium or Egg-Nest , where one may see divers broken Filaments or Strings , to which Strings the Eggs were fastned , except the great Vessel described by R. and through which I may imagine , several other Vessels received their matter for the Nourishment and Increase of their Eggs .
S T. Shows a String to which the Egg TV was fastned , as other Eggs were to the other Strings before I broke 'em off .
These Strings OPQR S. were almost transparent , and I could see other small Particles in 'em , when I took them out of the Cochineel grain , and separated the Eggs from them ; but as they begun to dry , they assumed a reddish Hew ; and when they were quite dry , they became of a light red Colour .
Fig. 6 .
WXY Z. represents another Animalculum , which I also took out of its Egg-shell , and gave it presently to the Limner to draw ; in it are the Legs to be seen very plainly between W and X , but I could not see that Leg which lies upon the Body .
Fig. 7 .
ABC D. is another Animalculum cleared of the Egg-shell , in which you may also perceive the Legs between A and B. Fig. 8 .
EFGH I. describes an Animalculum lying upon a Glass , as I had taken it two days before out of a Cochineel grain ; it was not much altered by growing dry ; it had but two Legs left , the other being broken off .
In this Animalculum appeared , at the extremity of the Head , that crooked part described by G H. which I suppose to be the Instrument wherewith it gets its Nourishment out of the Leaves of the above mentioned Plant .
After this I took another Animalculum with some of the Blood-Vessels , out of the Belly of its Dam , which said Animalculum was also partly covered with the said Blood-Vessels , and placed it before my Glass .
Fig. 9 .
KL M. represents a small part of the BloodVessels , and NO P , the Animalculum with its six Legs , as far as it could be seen .
Moreover , I saw among the Eggs that I had separated from the Ovarium , ( as also fastned to the Vessels of the Ovarium ) so exceeding small Eggs , that a hundred of 'em were not equal in bigness to one great Egg , and charged my Limner to make a Draught of some of those Eggs when he was viewing the Ovarium , but he neglected to do it .
In all the Cochineel grains that ever I examined , I found Eggs in their Bellies , and young ones in those Eggs , but in some of 'em many more than in others ; and in those whose Bellies are mightily shrivel 'd , I found but few Eggs ; from whence I concluded that such as had but few Eggs in 'em , had already brought forth a great many young , and would not have lived long , according to the Age of all small Flies that die soon after laying their Eggs .
Now , forasmuch as those Animalcula that are found upon Lime-trees , &amp;c. have young ones in their Bellies , even before they come to half their growth , my business was to see whether it be so also with the Cochineel Flies , wherefore I took eight of the small ones , which I judged did not altogether make more than one large grain , such as is described Fig. 1 .
by A B. and steeped them over night in Rain-Water , and next morning I found but five that had subsided , the other three being so light as to swim upon the Water which consequently had not penetrated into them .
Out of the first of these small grains that I dissected , I took eleven Eggs , in some of which the Animalcula were so compleatly formed , that I could easily see their Legs , besides several exceeding small Eggs .
In the second I could meet with no Eggs that were come to their full growth .
Out of the third I took three perfect Eggs .
In the fourth there were none perfect .
In the fifth two perfect Eggs , but always less .
From these Observations I conclude , that the Production of the Cochineel Flies happens after the same manner asthat of the Animalcula upon the Lime , Currant , Plumb and Hazel-nut Trees .
As for what the old Spaniard said farther , that they stifle the Cochineel Flies with Smoke as soon as they have got Wings , because then the Cochineel is better ; this is not strange at all , because when the said Flies are arrived to their full growth , their Bodies are at that time most full of Eggs ; from whence in my opinion is chiefly derived that noble colour of Scarlet , notwithstanding which , I must needs affirm , that most of these Cochineel Flies ( as far as I could observe ) are killed or smothered before they come to their full growth .
Methinks it is odd , that the Spaniard should not tell us whether they gather the Cochineel once or twice a year , the rather because the Islands of Cuba , Hispaniolae and Jamaica , from whence it mostly comes , in comparison of our Countries , have little or no Winter ; for those Islands lying between 18 and 23 degrees of N. Lat. the Sun , in their Winter is 40 degrees above the Horizon , whereas with us at the same time it is but 14 degrees and a half above the Horizon .
If we had as much Summer as the aforesaid Islands , the Animalcula which we call a sort of Louse , would so greatly endamage the Currant Trees with their Filth , that there would be no eating of the Fruit , and yet , according to all appearance , the Cochineel Flies are more Prolific than the Animalcula upon the Currant Trees .
The Cochineel Flies , in all appearance , do dwell upon the back or underside of the Leaves , which desend them from the great heat of the Sun in those parts ; and as the Smoke ca n't destroy all those Flies , the few that remain do multiply very much in a short time .
I had got about a Spoonfnl of Powder or Dust , together with some Sands out of the Cochineel Box , and found that that which appeared to be nothing but Dust was abundance of very small Cochineel Flies , and some ~ Xxxxxxxxx 'em 'em so little as if they had been just hatched , and some of 'em gradually bigger than others ; there were also other small Particles which I judged to be the Excrements of the Animalcula ; I saw also abundance of Legs with three Joints , and some also that had but two Joints , and a few one Joint only ; among these Legs , some had Claws on , which were either white , or dark coloured , or of a light red .
I saw moreover , some Particles that I could not bring home with me , which I judged to be the Heads of these Animalcula , and other Particles likewise of a beautiful red colour , that I fancied to be the upper parts of the Body ; in the said Dust there were also some few pointed Instruments , or rather Prickles , that were no thicker than a single hair of ones Head , among which there were two or three that were four times as thick as the rest ; and these , I presume , were the sharp Prickles , wherewith ( as the Spaniard tells us ) the Leaves were armed , because some of them were of a bright , others of a darker yellow .
Forasmuch as the said Prickles are guarded with an infinite number of Teeth like Saws , I have thought fit to take a draught of such a wonderful Product of Nature .
Fig. 10 .
QR S. represents the said Prickle with abundance of Teeth about it , and no thicker than the Hair of my Head .
I was not able to discover the Legs of those Animalcula , which I told you I took out of the aforementioned Eggs , unless I had put them out of that exact Order in which they lay , neither could I see them in their natural disposition , tho I took a great deal of pains to do it ; the reason of which is , that the Animalcula , whilst they were in the Egg , were of a dark red colour , and not at all transparent , especially such as were almost come to their full growth ; at last , but with great difficulty , I could perceive , of some Animalcula that were in the Egg , six Legs , disposed in such exact order , as you may have observed in the Aurelia of a Silk-Worm .
At the same time I discovered that the unborn Animalcula had two Horns , in which , at one time , I counted five Joints , and another time I thought I saw more .
After these observations of mine , to wit , that the Cochineel Animalcula are not changed from Worms to Flies , I reject my former Positions , consisting herein , that the Cochineel Flies have no Shields wherewith they cover their Wings , having found among the Cochineel Grains , little Shields or Vaginae that were black with a small round red spot upon each Shield , whereupon I and others judged , that these were the Shield of the Cochineel Flies .
The Animalcula , whose Wings are covered with Shields , are all of 'em , as far as I know , produced either in the Earth or in Wood , from whence they receive their Nourishment and Growth ; and if Nature had not made this Provision for them , being shut up in the Earth or Wood after that they are changed into flying Creatures , they could not dig out their way without hurting their tender Wings .
For having found amongst the Cochineel grain , one of the aforesaid Shields upon the hinder part of an Animalculum , and viewed the same more narrowly , I saw plainly , that that Trunk or hinder part had no Similitude with any of the other Cochineel grains .
Now seeing that all Creatures from the beginning are made to bring forth their like , if the Cochineel Flies had been endowed with Wings , it would have been in vain for the reasons above-mention 'd , indeed it is necessary they should have Wingsas soon as they are full grown .
I sent my Amsterdam Friend a Duplicat of what I have here related to you at length , as well as a Copy of the enclosed Figures , who has returned me a long Letter in answer thereto , wherein he says , that he has also taken 200 Particles out of a large Cochineel Grain , but that he Xxxxxxxxx2 could could not after the nicest observations , discover any Animalcula in the Eggs , &amp;c. wherefore he finally concludes , that what I call Blood-Vessels are analogous to the same parts which we find in Cherries , Grapes , &amp;c. and that what I take for the Shell or Membrane of the Egg , are only the Skins that cover the Seed .
Now , tho I was entirely satisfied , as to my own particular , in the account I have given , and Draughts I have caus 'd to be taken of the Cochineel grain , yet I dissected several others of the largest sort , and took the Animalcula out of the Egg-shell , and placed them before divers glasses in such order , that I could not only distinctly see the body of the Animalculum , with its parts divided into several Circles , but the two Horns also , with the Joints wherewith Nature has provided all these unborn Animalcula , were as plainly visible ; and the next day I caus 'd the Limner to take a draught of such an Animalculum , just as it appeared to his Eye , without adding or diminishing any thing from it , which is my manner at all times .
Fig. 11 .
ABCD E. shows the Body of the said Animalculum , B H. D I. and DK the 4 Legs , the 2 other being hid from the sight : OF represents one of the Horns , of which we had a very fair view , the second Horn A G. was not placed in so convenient a light , and consequently not so well delineated ; at the end of the Horns were three small Hairs , which are also described by F. and G. Thus I have given you my observations , conceptions and conclusions about the Cochineel Grains or Animalcula ; and if any body else shall make any farther Remarks upon this subject , and thinks that I am mistaken in any of my Discoveries or Inferences from them , I shall be obliged to 'em , if they will let me know it , and shall freely submit to the opinion of such as shall make any better Experiments upon this business of Cochineel .

