388 BOTANY OF RODRIGUEZ .
MUSCI .
By William Mitten , A.L.S. The number of the mosses as yet known to occur in the island of Rodriguez is thirty-three , of these ten were gathered in a fertile state , the remaining twenty-three being barren .
With one exception all the genera are the same as those known from Africa or the Mascarene Islands , and thirteen of the species are identical with those found in those countries .
Three species are found also in India and the Indian Archipelago , and seventeen are considered to be new , of these eleven are without fruit , and six fertile .
The most interesting moss is the Orthotrichum , Beauv .
, before known only from the specimens gathered in Bourbon by Du Petit Thouars , described and well figured by Schwaegrichen ; it is undoubtedly a member of the family of the Orthotricha , but its characters as a genus are intermediate , and its position in that family unique .
A few species correspond with those from the western coast of tropical Africa , and it appears from what little is yet known of the mosses of the eastern coast that some species have an enormous range in the African continent .
Cosmopolite mosses are represented solely by controversa .
Octoblepharum albidnm , Lin .
( Bryum ) .
Not a common species .
Pound on decayed branches of trees and vegetable humus .
Calymperes ( Hyophilina ) laevifolium , Mitt .
Caulis ascendens ramosus .
Folia dense inserta e basi erecta dilatata late obovata margin minute crenulata intus cellulis hyalinis areolata exinde patentia lineali ligulata apice lato acuta subapiculatave margin incurvo canaliculata inte-gerrima cellulis minutis sublsevibus obscuris et ad margines folii basis erections limbum formantibus descendentibus areolata , vitta intramarginalis nulla .
Polia anomala longiora erecta attenuata apice propagulis glomerulatis coronata .
Stems about half an inch high , with the leaves a line and a half wide .
The uppermost leaves green , the lower all brown , about a line long , when dry , curved and loosely contorted .
Not uncommon .
In its leaves this moss comes nearest the South American C. C. Mull .
and C. parasiticum , Sw .
, and differs from the African C. , Sw .
in the absence of the marginal vitta .
Calymperes pallidum , Mitt .
Caulis brevis subsimplex .
Folia a basi parum latiore erecta cellulis hyalinis areolata .
margin superiore crenulata exinde patentia oblongo-lanceolata , cellulis rotundatis vix obscuris papillis brevibus aspera , nervo crassiusculo concolori intus MUSCI.\#151 ; WILLIAM MITTEN .
extusque scabro percursa , vitta angusta sub-intra-marginali lutescente circumdata .
Folia anomala angustiora ex apice nervi glomerula corpuseularum yiridium fusi-formium ferentia .
Stems about two lines high .
Leaves a line long , pale glaucous green when dry , loosely incurved and contorted .
Frequent .
In the structure of the leaf nearest to from Ceylon and Moulmein , in the glaucous appearance of the upper cells like , Mitt .
( .
cense , Bryol .
Jav .
t. 37 ; but not of Schwsegrichen ) , so widely spread in the Indian Archipelago and Pacific Islands .
Weisia ( Euweisia ) controversa , Hedw .
Fund .
Muse .
Frond , iii .
12 t. 5 .
Everywhere on the banks of streams .
Weisia ( Hyophila ) Roscheri , Lorentz .
Found with other species of Weisia .
Small barren stems , which agree pretty well with others from Zanzibar .
The species is very similar to W. ( AT .
) involute so common in India .
Weisia ( Tortularia ) incerta , Mitt .
Caulis brevis ramosus .
Folia patentia patenti-recurvaque lineali ligulata apice obtusa , nervo crasso rufescente in mucronem brevem excurrente , marginibus superi-oribus inflexis mtegerrimis , cellulis superioribus rotundatis obscuris basalibus paucis oblongis parvis rectangulatis hyalinis .
Stem a quarter of an inch high .
Leaves one line long , dark green , when old of a rusty brown colour .
Common on banks of streams .
This appears to be a moss very nearly resembling W. , Mitt .
Muse .
Austr .
Amer .
139 , but it is a species of which too little is known to render its position here well ascertained .
Tortula ( Planbelia ) mutica , Mitt .
Humilis , subsimplex .
Folia erecto-patentia ovato-oblonga obtusissima , nervo valido concolori sub apice abrupto dorso supeme aspero inferne lsevi carinata , inte-gerrima , cellulis superioribus parvis fere obscuris inferioribus basin versus rotundo-quadratis parvis pellucidis .
Stems two lines high , red .
Leaves one third of a line long , glaucous green , when dry contorted .
Along with species of Weisia\gt ; but more scarce .
Very near to T. orientals , Willd .
, and to Fottia { Hyophila ) papillinervis , Lorentz , from Zanzibar , which is doubtless a species of this group , being very similar to T. orientalis in size , habit , and in the structure of its leaves .
Leiomitrium , genus noy .
Caulis repens ramis fertilibus erectis .
Theca exserta .
Feristomium duplex externum octodentatum ( dentibus bigeminatis ) internum octociliatum .
campanulata plicis nullis .
h. plicatum , JSeauv .
Frodr .
81 ; Schwcegr .
t. 52 ( Ortbotricbum ) .
Not uncommon .
This curious and interesting species has been well figured and described by Schwsegrichen , its habit is that of a Macr its leaves like those of the species of Zygodon which are allied to Z. v , and its capsule and peristome as in Ulota ; there is , however , no species of Orthotrichum or to which it has any resemblance , except in its capsule .
In the non-plicate calyptra this genus agrees with Schlotheimia , without , however , having any other near affinity or resemblance .
Macromitrium astroideum , Mitt .
Caulis repens prostratus , f oliis e basi patent divergentibus apice incurvis hastato-lanceolatis acuminatis apice angustis cellulis inferne oblongis nonnullis curvulis superioribus rotundatis obscuris areolata , rami dense dispositi breves erecti densifolii , foliis linealibus e basi suboblonga erecta cellulis pellucidis angustis oblongis paucis curvatis papillis elevatis intus asperis , exinde patentibus apice obtuse acutis incurvis cellulis rotundis densis obscuris vix papillosis areolatis costa superne concolori inferne flavescente percursa carinatis .
Stems creeping in a centrifugal manner with closely set branches about a fine high .
Leaves one line long , when dry curled and contorted , forming globular tufts .
Bare .
Only at the top of Oyster Biver valley , trailing over boulders .
This appears to be near M. fimbriatum , Schw .
, but has narrower leaves .
Macromitrium aciculare , JBrid .
; Schw\amp ; gr. t. 111 .
Occurs more commonly than the foregoing .
Stems all barren , but agree with Mauritian specimens .
It appears to be one of the most abundant amongst a group of very closely allied species found in Mauritius .
Bartramia ( Philonotis ) pungens , Mitt .
Dioica .
Caulis erectus ascendensve late csespitosus gracilis rufus infra peri-chetium ramis plerumque ad unam lateram decurvis ramosus .
Folia laxe imbncata erecto-patentia lanceolata sensim angustata acutissima costa angusta dorso denti-culata percursa margin parum recurva serrulata e cellulis oblongis laxis pellucide areolata , perichsetialia e basi dilatata ovata subulata nervis lamoribus .
Theca pedunculo rubro ssepe sinuoso parva globoso-pyriformis inclinata sicca plicata oper-culo convexo breviter mamillata peristomio normali .
Flos gemmiformis rufus foliis perigonialibus e basi dilatata excavata vaginante sensim anDustatis elongatis remotius serrulatis .
MUSCI.\#151 ; WILLIAM MITTEN .
Stems half an inch or more high , with the leaves half a line wide .
Leaves when dry appressed , rather soft in substance , the upper of a pale sub-glaucous green , the lower pellucid , with the nerves and margin pale brown .
Seta three-quarters of an inch high , shining .
Capsule when dry and deoperculate curved and plicate , of a red brown colour .
On moist rocks near the sources of all streams .
Yery nearly resembling the Ceylon B. , Mitt .
Muse .
Ind. Or .
, but with narrower and more lax areolation .
The male flower is like that of B. rufiflora , Hornsch .
in Mart .
Plor .
Brasil .
Plate 37 A. 1 .
Plants of the natural size .
2 .
Leaves .
3 .
Portion of peri-chsetium .
4 .
Capsule mature with operculum .
5 .
Older collapsed capsule .
6 .
Male flower : all magnified .
Bartramia ( Philonotis ) flaecidifolia , Mitt .
Gracilis , subsimplex .
Folia caulina laxe inserta apicalia subsecunda planiuscula late lanceolata acuta nervo dorso Isevi in acumen pungentem dissoluto margin parum recurva serrulata , cellulis oblongis laxis pellucidis areolata .
Polia in ramu-lorum inferiorum nonnulla parva obtusa .
Pound with the foregoing .
Larger than B. pungens } with leaves twice as wide , but in their substance less different , although more flaccid .
It is possible that this may be only an altered state of B. pungens by some peculiarity of locality , but its appearance is different .
Brachymenium pulchrum , Hook .
Bot. Miscell .
i. t. 38 .
On the stems of many trees .
A small quantity of plants which appear to be a young state of this or some nearly allied species .
When dry the foliage is much twisted , but the form of the leaf is as in the S. African moss .
Bryiim erythrocaulon , Schwcegr .
t. lxxx .
Widely spread on the island .
The specimens agree well with barren examples from Mauritius and Natal .
The species appears to have softer and narrower leaves than is usual in B. leptothecium , Tail .
, which in other respects is very closely allied .
Brynm megalacrion , Schwcegv .
t. 71 .
Common on trees .
Specimens barren .
Bryum pachypoma , jMout .
iu Awn .
Sc. Not .
3d ser. iv .
104 .
Bare .
Only in a few places on rotten wood .
Stems mostly barren , all without fruit .
They agree with specimens from .
Ceylon and Java .
Rhacopilum Africanum , Mitt .
in Journ. Linn. vii .
162 .
Pound intermingled with , species of Ectropothecium on moist rocks in the head of streams .
Specimens barren , but they appear to be in no way different from those from the western coast of tropical Africa .
The species differs from , Beauv .
Prodr .
66 , in the cells of its leaves being larger and easily defined with a lens that leaves those of I. mucronatum obscure .
Callicostella laeviuscula , Mitt .
Synoica .
Caulis procumbens .
Folia compressa , media late ovali , oblonga apice obtusa late sub-apiculata , intermedia longiora apice truncato obtusa , lateralia apice late acuta , omnia costis divergentibus sub apice abruptis dorso parum erosis mar-ginibus versus apicem crenulatis cellulis parvis rotundis lsevibus areolata ; perichse-tialia erecta vaginulam vix tegentia .
Theca in pedunculo rubro lsevi horizontalis decurvave ovalis operculo longe subulato calyptra ad medium thecae descendente apice scabra , peristomii dentibus crassiusculis solidis caeterum normalibus .
Abundant .
One of a large genus , most of the species of which to the naked eye present scarcely any obvious differences ; on a close examination , however , of the areolation of the leaves considerable differences are apparent in the form of the cells , in the presence or absence of the papillae , also in the position of the papillae on the cells ; due consideration being given to this , C Iceviuscula is allied in structure to papillata , Mont .
, so widely distributed in the Pacific islands , to , Mitt , in Tiffin- Trans , xxiii .
53 .
t. 5 , f. ix .
, from tropical Africa , to Swartz , from the West Indies , and to C. Martiana and C. and , Hornsch .
, all from S. America , but appears to differ from all in its shorter leaves which are not evidently papillose .
Plate 37 B.\#151 ; 1 , stem of the natural size ; 2 , a leaf from the middle series of the upper side of the stem ; 3 , a leaf of the intermediate series on the same side ; 4 , a lateral leaf ; 5 , perichsetium ; 6 , capsule with calyptra : all magnified .
Meteorium involutifolmm , Mitt , in Journ. Linn. Soc. vii .
156 .
Not common .
At the top of Oyster Biver Valley .
Specimens showing the moss in a young or incomplete state , with simple stems about an inch long , arising from a creeping rhizoma-like stem denuded of leaves .
On the ascending branches the leaves are imbricated , and at their points are congested into a cuspidate bud , they are inserted in five twisted rows .
This species is found also in Madagascar as well as on the Western Coast .
Eertile stems are frond-like , and show the species to be nearly related to M. Maumeuse , Sull .
, and Cryptotheca cochlear ifolia , Hornsch .
Pterogonium curvifolium , Mitt .
Monoicum .
Caulis primarius repens radicellis purpureis apice ascendens arcu-atus .
It ami laxe dispositi ascendentes simplici vel interdum ramosi .
Folia ramea MUSCI.\#151 ; WILLIAM MITTEN .
patentia ineurva parum compressa sicca tereti imbricata , late ovato acuminata con-cava margin recto ob prominentia cellularum parietum minute crenulata nervo fur-cato brevi subobsoleto , cellulis superioribus anguste elongate oblongis apicibus in papillas eleyatis basin versus ad lateras densis minutis transverse oblongo-rotundis obscurioribus , pericbaetialia duplo majora patentia ovato-lanceolata lseviora .
Flos masculus exilissimus .
Stems about an inch long .
Branches three to four lines long , when wet straight , when dry curved , with the leaves one fourth of a line wide .
Pound sparingly on trees in Oyster Bay Valley .
This pretty moss forms extensive rather loosely interwoven patches .
In miniature it has the habit of _P .
gracile ; it differs from and Anisodon in the almost obsolete nerve and papillose leaves .
Plate 37 C.\#151 ; 1 , stem of the natural size ; 2 , a portion with leaves ; 3 and 4 , leaves detached : all magnified .
Anomodon exilis , Mitt , in Lourn .
Linn. Soc. xiii .
309 .
Bare .
A single stem amongst Fterogonium curvifolium agrees well with the South African specimen .
The species is allied to A. , Cesati , but has the foliage of its branches compressed .
Neckera Lepineana , Mont , in Ann. Sc. Not .
3d ser. x. 107 .
Only in Valley Bivi\amp ; re des Huitres , trailing over the boulders .
Agrees with specimens from Madagascar and from Johanna , where it was gathered by Speak .
The species is found in Ceylon , the Indian Archipelago , ai^d the Pacific islands .
Its fruit is rare .
Sematophyllum fulvifolium , Mitt .
Monoicum .
Caulis decumbens ramosus .
Folia compressa interdum secunda laxe imbricata ovata ovaliaque parum acuminata acuta concava , margin late subplana integerrima breviter obsoleteque binervia cellulis oblongis distinctis obscuriusculis alaribus utrinque tribus majoribus pellucidis areolata , perichsetialia erecta longiora acuminata .
Theca in pedunculo gracili rubro ovalis suberecta incliuatave basi callosa , operculo convexo tenui curvirostro , peristomii dentibus luteis inferne latis crassis .
Stems an inch long , with the leaves scarcely a line wide .
Leaves green , almost glossy .
Seta four lines long .
Capsule greenish brown , after the fall of the red operculum , much contracted below the mouth and urceolate , at its base where contracted into the seta is a callous ring .
Not uncommon .
The specimens appear to be specifically identical with a moss gathered in Mauritius by Telfair , Bewsher , and Pike , in which the leaves are usually fulvous .
S. brachycarpum\gt ; Hampe Ic .
xi .
, has narrower leaves with a different areolation .
In the obscure cells of the leaf 8 .
fulvifolium agrees with the South American 8 .
Kegelianum , 0 .
Muller .
Plate 37 D.\#151 ; 1 , stem of the natural size ; 2 , leaves from the same ; 3 , perichse- \lt ; tium and male flower ; 4 , capsule with operculum : all magnified .
Sematophyllum incurvum , Mitt .
Monoicum .
Caulis repens pinnatus ramis assurgentibus incurvis .
Folia caulina ovato-lanceolata acuminata concava nervis binis brevibus uno validiore vel obsoletis , margin obsolete serrulata ramea undique patentia sicca sursum secunda elliptico-lanceolata concava margin recurva integerrima enervia e cellulis elongatis angustis basi ad angulos rotundatis incrassatis alaribus oblongis hyalinis : perichse-tialia erecta caulinis similia duplo longiora .
Theca in pedunculo breviusculo rubro ovalis horizontalis pendulave , basi apophyse calloso , operculo convexo longe oblique rostrato .
The prostrate stems are about an inch long , the branches from two to three lines long , and with the leaves about two-thirds of a line wide .
The leaves glossy green and straw coloured .
Seta three lines long .
Common .
This differs greatly in the substance of its leaves from 8 .
fnIvifoHum , and agrees more nearly with 8 .
brachycarpum , from which it may be distinguished by the form of its leaves , which are all directed upwards on the incurved branches .
Plate 38 A. 1 , stem of the natural size ; 2 , leaves detached ; 3 , perichsetium and male flower ; 4 and 5 , capsules , one with calyptra .
Ectropothecium scaturagineum , Brid .
ii .
418 ( Hypnum ) .
Perhaps the commonest species on the island .
Specimens all without fruit , varying greatly in appearance , but not much in the form of the leaves .
Ectropothecium subenerve , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens pinnatus ramis assurgentibus in csespitem intertextus .
Folia caulina compressa subsecunda ovata acuminata integerrima , nervis obsoletis , cavius-cula ad margines vix implana , e cellulis elongatis angustis firmis areolata .
Branches from three to six lines long , with the leaves three-fourths of a line wide .
Along with the foregoing .
Ectropothecium doliare , Mitt .
Monoicum .
Caulis procumbens intricatus foliis a symmetricis ovato-lanceolatis .
JRami ascendentes in csespitem laxum congesti foliis distichaceis compressis apicibus decurvis subfalcatis fulcatisve anguste lanceolatis omnibus margin apicem versus minute serrulatis , nervis binis brevibus subobsoletis , cellulis elongatis angustis lsevibus areolatis ; perichsetialibus longioribus subulato-angustatis .
Theca in pedunculo gracili breviter ovalis pendula operculo convexo breyirostro , peristomio e dentibus HEPATIC-\#174 ; .\#151 ; WILLIAM MIT TEN .
latis crassis interno processibus et ciliis in uno coalitis in membranam alte exsertam insidentibus .
Branches with the leaves about two-thirds of a line wide .
Leaves pale green , glossy .
Seta half an inch long .
Capsule small and short .
very common on clay rocks on the banks of streams .
Forming extensive soft loose patches , in which the ramification , so frequently elegantly pinnate in allied species , is in the present scarcely perceptible .
Plate 38 B.\#151 ; 1 , a stem of the natural size ; 2 , a leaf from the middle series on the upper side of the stem ; 3 , a leaf from the intermediate series of the same side ; a lateral leaf : 5 , perichsetium and male flower ; 6 , capsule .
Ectropothecium subulosum , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens radicans ramis brevibus pinnatim ramosus .
Folia subcom-pressa lateralia patentia apicalia subfalcata , omnia lanceolato-subulata , caulina integerrima , ramea apicem versus sub-serrulata , costis binis brevibus inconspicuis , subobsoletis , cellulis angustis firmis areolata .
Branches about two lines long ascending , with the leaves two-thuds of a line wide .
Leaves green , shining , scarcely altering when dry .
Frequent along with the preceding .
This moss nearly resembles a Mauritian species in its narrow leaves , but seems a little larger and of a firmer substance .
Hypnum ( Rhynchostegium ) pectinatum , Mitt .
Caulis procumbens ramis assurgentibus .
Folia laxe inserta patula compressa , sicca pectinatim patula , ovata acuta vel breviter acuminata argute serrulata , costa tenui ultra medium evanida , cellulis ubique elongatis teneris mollibus areoStems with branches an inch long , slender , with leaves one .
line long , subpellucid , thin and glossy .
Not common : on dry places .
' .
, .
^ 7 , .
, Nearly resembling a species from Natal , and also the S. African M. rhaphulorhynchwm , 0 .
Muller , but not exactly agreeing with any .
Fissidens procumbens , Mitt .
Caulis elongatus inferne procumbens crassiusculus simplex .
alterna patentia lineari-lanceolata acuta , costa yix peUucida in apice evamda , lamina vera ultra medium producta acuta , dorsali Vgusta haud decurrente , ubique integerrima e cellulis minutis obscuris densis areolata .
Stems an inch or more long with the leaves a line wide .
Occurs in tufts occasionally .
... ... A species to all appearance different from any of the large group to which it belongs by its immarginate obscure leaves , which are not crenulate from the prominent marginal cells , as is so frequently observable among the species destitute of the hyaline limb .
Fissidens brevifrons , Mitt . .
Caulis brevis oblique ascendens .
Folia circiter sex juga longitudine increscentia frondem sub-flabelliformem sistentia , superiora anguste linealia apice latiuscule acuta nervo valido pallidiore percursa , lamina vera vix mediam folii attingente apice acuta parum insequale , dorsali ad nervi basin anguste continuata , e cellulis minutis fere opacis areolata integerrima .
Stem a line long .
The upper leaves one and a half line long , of a glaucous olive green , becoming brown .
On clay rocks .
Hare .
Allied to the S. African F. plumosus , Hornsch .
, but with leaves narrower at the points and more opaque .
Fissidens flaccidus , Mitt , in Trans. Linn. xxiii .
56 .
t. 6 , f. xviii .
Sparingly on clay rocks .
The specimens , all of a dark brown colour , agree with those from " Western Africa .
In this species the nerve vanishes some distance below the point of the leaf , an uncommon circumstance in the genus .
Fissidens Vogelianus , Mitt , in Trans. Linn. Soc. xxiii .
54 .
t. 5 , f. x. With Anthoceros fuciformis .
The specimens have the leaves a little wider than in those from the Western Coast of Africa .
In other respects they agree closely .
HEPATICiE .
By William Mitten , A.L.S. The entire number of the Hepaticse is eighteen , of which thirteen were obtained with more or less complete fructification and five only were barren .
As in the Mosses the genera are all African , but only three of the species are identical with African or Mascarene forms ; one only is also found in the Eastern Archipelago , and one Anthoceros Icevis may be said to be cosmopolitan .
Thirteen of the species appear to be new , of these nine are fertile and four barren .
Lophocolea subrotunda , Mitt .
Caulis repens pallidus .
Folia imbricata alterna explanata marginibus recurvis convexa vel sursum secunda apicibus recurvis ovato-rotunda , apice rotundata sub-retusave , integerrima ; amphigastria parva caulem vix latitudine superantia quad-rifida , basi uno latere cum folio subajacente anguste connexa , cellulis parvis rotun-datis pellucidis areolata , perianthium triquetrum superne latiore , labiis longis spinosis ,

