I. " On the Measurenent of the Luminous Intensity of Light .
" By WILLIAM CRooKEs , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 27 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The measurement of the luminous intensity of a ray of light is a problem the solution of which has been repeatedly attempted , but with less satisfactory results than the endeavours to measure the other radiant forces .
The problem is susceptible of two divisions , the absolute and the relative measurement of light .
A relative photometer is one in which the observer has only to ascertain the relative illuminating powers of two sources of light , one of which is kept as uniform as possible , the other being the light whose intensity is to be determined .
It is therefore evident that one great thing to be aimed at is an absolutely uniform source of light .
In the ordinary process of photometry the standard used is a candle , defined by Act of Parliament as a " sperm of six to the pound , burning at the rate of 120 grains per hour .
" This , however , is found to be very variable , and many observers have altogether condemned the employment of test-candles as light-measures .
The author has taken some pains to devise a source of light which should be at the same time fairly uniform in its results , would not vary by keeping , and would be capable of accurate imitation at any time and in any part of the world by mere description .
The absence of these conditions seems to be one of the greatest objections to the sperm-candle .
It would be impossible for an observer on the continent , ten or twenty years hence , from a written description of the sperm-candle now in use , to make a standard which would bring his photometric results into relation with those obtained here .
Without presuming to say that he has satisfactorily solved all difficulties , the writer believes that he has advanced some distance in the right direction , and pointed out the road for further improvement .
A glass lamp is taken of about 2 ounces capacity , the aperture in the neck being 0 25 inch in diameter ; another aperture at the side allows the liquid fuel to be introduced ; this consists of alcohol of sp. gr. 0-805 , and pure benzol boiling at 81 ?
C. , which are mixed together in the proportion of five volumes of the former and one of the latter .
The wick-holder consists of a platinum tube , and the wick is made of fifty-two pieces of platinum wire , each 0-01 inch in diameter .
The flame of this lamp forms a perfectly shaped cone , the extremity being sharp , and having no tendency to smoke ; without flicker or movements of any kind , it burns when protected from currents of air at a uniform rate of 136 grains per hour .
There is no doubt that this flame is very much more uniform than that of the sperm-candle sold for photometric purposes .
Tested against a candle , considerable variations in relative illuminating power have been observed ; but on placing two of these lamps in opposition , no such variations have been detected .
The instrument devised for measuring the relative intensities of the standard and other lights is next described ; it has this in common with that of Arago described in 1833 , as well as with those described in 1853 by Bernard , and in 1854 by Babinet , that the phenomena of polarized light are used for effecting the desired end* .
But it is believed that the present arrangement is quite new , and it certainly appears to answer the purpose in a way which leaves little to be desired .
The instrument cannot be described without the aid of drawings which accompany the original paper , but its mode of action may be understood by the following description .
The standard lamp being placed on one of the supporting pillars which slide along a graduated stem , it is moved along the bar to a convenient distance , depending on the intensity of the light to be measured .
The light to be compared is then fixed in a similar way on the other side of the instrument .
On looking through the eyepiece two brightly luminous disks will be seen , of different colours .
One of the lights must now be slid along the scale until the two disks of light , as seen in the eyepiece , are equal in tint .
Equality of illumination is easily obtained ; for , as the eye is observing two adjacent disks of light which pass rapidly from red-green to green-red , through a neutral point of no colour , there is no difficulty in hitting this point with great precision .
Squaring the distance between the flames and the centre will give inversely their relative intensities .
The delicacy of this instrument is very great .
With two lamps , each about 24 inches from the centre , it is easy to distinguish a movement of one of them to the extent of one-tenth of an inch to or fro , and by using the polarimeter an accuracy exceeding this can be attained .
The employment of a photometer of this kind enables us to compare lights of different colours with one another .
So long as the observer , by the eyepiece alone , has to compare the relative intensities of two surfaces respectively illuminated by the lights under trial , it is evident that , unless they are of the same tint , it is impossible to obtain that absolute equality of illumination in the instrument which is requisite for a comparison .
By the unaided eye one cannot tell which is the brighter half of a paper disk illuminated on one side with a reddish , and on the other with a yellowish light ; but by using the photometer here described the problem becomes practicable .
When the contrasts of colour are very strong ( when , for instance , one is a bright green and the other scarlet ) there is difficulty in estimating the exact point of neutrality ; but this only diminishes the accuracy of the comparison , and does not render it impossible , as it would be according to other systems .

