Observations upon the Marine Barometer , made during the Examination of the Coasts of New Holland and New South Wales , in the Years 1801 , 1802 , and 1803 .
By Matthew Flinders , Esq. Commander of His Majesty 's Ship Investigator .
In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. &amp;c. Sc. 8c .
Read March 27 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 239 .
] The chief circumstance that induced Capt. Flinders to think his observations upon the marine barometer were worthy of attention , was the coincidence that took place between the rising and falling of the mercury , and the setting in of winds that blew from the sea and from off the land , to which there seemed to be at least as much reference as to the strength of the wind or the state of the atmosphere .
Our author 's examination of the coasts of New Holland and the other parts of the Terra Australis , began at Cape Leuwen , and continued eastward along the south coast .
His observations , which , on account of their length , we must pass over , show , that a change of wind from the northern half of the compass to any point in the southern half , caused the mercury to rise ; and that a contrary change caused it to fall .
Also , that the mercury stood considerably higher when the wind came from the south side of east and west , than when , in similar weather , .
it came from the north side .
Capt. Flinders now proceeds to relate the observations he made upon the east coast .
From these it appears that the winds which came from between south and east caused the mercury to rise and stand high , as the same winds had done , with only one exception , on the south coast .
The wind from north-east kept the mercury up above thirty inches on the east coast , and caused it to rise after all other winds , except those from the south-east ; whereas , on the south coast , those winds caused the mercury to fall , and to stand much below thirty inches ; owing , in our author 's opinion , to the wind coming from off the land .
During north-west winds , the mercury stood lower upon both coasts than at any other time ; and , on both , those winds came from off the land .
Moderate winds from the south-westward , with fine weather , caused a descent of the mercury on the east coast ; and during their continuance , it was much lower than with winds from the northeastward ; but upon the south coast it rose with south-west winds , and it stood much higher than with winds from the opposite quarter .
But it must be observed , that the wind which blew from the sea upon one coast came from off the land on the other .
The mean height of the mercury on the east coast is stated by our author to be not less than 30-08 or 30-10 inches ; whereas upon the south coast he estimates its mean height to be 30 inches .
The greatest range observed upon the east coast was from 29-60 to 30*36 ; while upon the south coast the range was from 29-42 to 30'51 .
But it must be remarked , that these extremes are taken for very short intervals of time .
The observations made by our author upon the north coast are next detailed .
The chief differences in the effects of winds upon this coast , from what they produced upon the south and east coast , are , that a north-east wind raised the mercury as high , if not higher , than one from the south-east ; and that a north-west wind , when it came from off the sea , and was moderate , was equal , in the above effect , to either of them , and kept the mercury higher than the south-west wind did .
Upon considering the effects of the same winds upon the different coasts of Australia , as described in the foregoing summary of Capt. Flinders 's observations , the following queries seem , he says , to present themselves : Why do the winds from the north and north-west , which cause the mercury to descend and stand lower than any other upon the south and east coasts , and also in the open sea , and in the southwest bight of the Gulf of Carpentaria , make it rise upon the outer part of the north coast with the same or even worse weather ?
Why should the north-east wind , which occasions a fall in the barometer , upon the south coast , considerably below the mean standard , be attended with a rise above the mean upon the east and north coasts ?
The south-east wind , upon the south and east coasts , causes the mercury to rise higher than any other ; -why has it not the same effect upon the north coast and upon the west ?
How is it that the south-west wind , which makes the mercury rise and stand high upon the south and west coasts , causes it to fall below the mean standard upon the east coast , and , with the same weather , to descend lower than any other upon the north coast ?
The answer to these questions Capt. Flinders considers as sufficiently obvious ; in support of which opinion he offers the following explanation : The lower air , when brought in by a wind from the sea , meets with resistance in passing over the land ; and to overcome this resistance , it is obliged to rise and make itself room by forcing the superincumbent air upwards .
The first body of air which thus comes in from the sea , being itself obstructed in its velocity , will obstruct the second ; and this will therefore rise over the first , in like manner , to overcome the obstruction : and as the course of the second body of air will be more direct towards the top of the highest land it has to surmount than the first was , so the first part of the second body will arrive at the top before the latter part of the first body has reached it ; and this latter part will not be able to pass over the top , being kept down by the second body and the successive stream of air , whose velocity is superior to it .
In this manner an eddy or body of compressed air will be formed , which at first will occupy all the space below a line drawn from the shore to the top of the highest land ; but the succeeding bodies of air , at a distance from the shore , will soon feel the effect of the obstruction , and will begin to rise ; by which the stratum of lower air will be deeper between the top of the land and the shore , and to some distance from it , than upon the mountains or in the open sea .
Hence it follows , that the mercury ought to stand somewhat higher when such a wind blows than with the same wind when it meets with no obstruction ; and the more direct it blows upon the coast , and the higher the land is , the higher ought the mercury to rise .
On the other hand , when the wind comes from off the hills , this dense air will be displaced ; and thus the air over the coast will resume its natural state with a land wind .
Capt. Flinders concludes his paper with some general remarks upon the barometer , of which the following seem to be the most material ; It is not so much the absolute as the relative height of the mercury , and its state of rising and falling , that are to be attended to in forming a judgement of the weather .
In the open sea , the changes in the weather , and in the strength of the wind , appear to be the causes that chiefly affect the barometer ; but , near the shore , a change in the direction of the wind seems to affect it as much , or more , than either of those causes taken singly .
On the open sea , also , the mercury seems to stand higher in a steady breeze of several days ' continuance , provided it does not blow hard , than when the wind is variable .
Perhaps it is on this account , as well as from the direction of the wind , that the mercury stands higher within the tropics than in those parallels where the winds are variable .
Upon the whole , our author thinks the barometer capable of affording so much assistance to the commander of a ship , that no commander in a long voyage should be without one .

