] 40 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Note on Spectrum of Sodium .
[ May 29 physical significance , but are still approximately applicable , at the high temperatures and pressures they have been considering .
At all events , whether they are right or wrong in taking this view , , it appears to them certain that the rules and tables they have laid down , as based on their analyses , experiments , and calculations , may for all practical purposes be accepted as correct , and may , bearing in mind the restrictions to which they have referred in this memoir , be applied to nearly every question of Internal Ballistics . .
( Received June 4 , 1879 .
) Since the authors completed their memoir , a charge of 101b .
of P powder has been fired in 50 per cent , space .
The solid products were collected in the form of an exceedingly hard mass , weighing about 3flb .
, the fracture of which exhibited the want of homogeneity frequently alluded to by the authors .
On the surface there was a deposit of varying thickness , and of a pale yellow colour , consisting chiefly of small crystals .
The chemical examination of a portion of this deposit , rapidly collected , showed it to contain a considerable proportion of potassium hyposulphite .
This product was exhibited to the Royal Society when the paper was read .
V. " Note on the Spectrum of Sodium .
" By J* Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 28,1879 .
I have lately been engaged in studying the spectrum of Na under new experimental conditions .
In anticipation of a detailed communication , I take leave to state that the vapour given off from the metal after slow distillation in a vacuum for some time shows the red and green lines without any trace whatever of the yellow one .
Hydrogen is given off in large quantities , and at times the C line and the red " structure " are seen alone .
After this treatment the metal , even when red hot , volatilises with great difficulty .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 12 , the day appointed for the election of Fellows .

