]\gt ; New Series of Lines in the Spectrum of ]gnesbum .
By A. , F.RS .
, Assistant Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and , South Kensington .
( Reoeived June 12 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) Introdory .
A recent investigation suggested that the spectrum of hydrogen was unique in two Principal series of lines which are related to each other in the same manner as Diffuse and Sharp series .
* One of these series begins with a line at , and the other with a line at 3203 , the two series to the limit 48764 on the frequency scale .
The lines in question have so far only been produced by passing powerful discharges through helium tubes ( which also contain drogen ) , but in accordance with the work of Rydberg , they have been attributed to hydrogen on the ground of their series relationsbip with lines known to be due to In for further examples of such series , with hydrogen suggested spark spectra as the most promising sources .
One of the most remarkable spark lines is the well-known line of magnesium , which is ordinarily not visible at all in the arc , but is by far the strongest line in the spark .
Further , there is a series of single lines in the arc spectrum of nesium , first identified as such by Rydberg , which it seemed possibly be to the Balmer series of hydrogen lines .
Magnesium therefore appeared to be a suitable element for ation , but records of the spectrum were ether inadequate for the purpose in view .
There were , in fact , only two recorded lines which could possibly be connected in series with 4481 ; namely , the lines given by Exner and Haschek at and .
Other associated ultra-violet lines , howeyer , have now been photographed , and it results that the spark lines form two series like of hydrogen , 4481 being analogous to the first Principal line of hydrogen JIethod of The magnesium spark lines , as ordinarily obtained , are too diffuse for accurate measurement , and it appears from the present investigation that in the far ultra-violet they are even too diffuse to be recognisable .
The lines may be narrowed by the use of self-induction , but they are at the same time weakened , and the more refrangible lines were then too feeble for observation .
It is known , however , that the spark lines are also brought out when the arc ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' 1912 , vol. 73 , p. 62 .
Mr. A. Fowler .
New Series of is passed in vacuo ; that is , in reality , in a low-pressure atmosphere of hydrogen liberated by the heated metal .
* Under these conditions the lines are well developed and sharply defined , and by this method it became possible to photograph five additional lines which were evidently related to the three spark lines already mentioned .
The apparatus employed was identical with thaG described in a previous paper for the observation of the spectrum of magnesium hydride .
In addition to the spark lines , the arc in vacuo also exhibits the arc and flame and the bands attributed to magnesium hydride .
The spark lines , however , are easily identified by comparison with the arc in air .
In the region beyond , the five new spark lines are , in fact , the only lines present in most of the photographs .
An iron arc comparison was utilised in the determination of wave-lengths , except for the extreme ultra-violet , where , in the absence of tabulated iron lines , the comparison spectrum was that of copper .
Series of Spark Lines .
Wave-lengths and other details relating bo the new series lines are given in the appended tables .
The wave-lengths are on Rowland 's scale , and the oscillation frequencies have been corrected to vacuum .
A mere inspection of the photographs suggests that the eight lines form a single series having the usual characteristics , but calculations show that they must be divided into two series by taking alternate lines .
As the new series consist of enhanced lines , they may be conveniently designated and , to distinguish them from the other nesium series , which already include Principal , Diffuse , and Sharp series of triplets in addition to the series of single lines .
The Hicks formula for the two series , as calculated from the first three lines in each case , are Observed minus computed values of the frequeucies ( 0\mdash ; C ) are iven in Column 6 of the tables .
* Fowler and Pain , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc 1903 , vol. 72 , p. 253 .
Fowler , ' Phil. Trans 1009 , , vol. 209 , p. 449 .
See plate accompanying paper by Fowler and Reynolds , this vol. , p. 137 Lines in the Spark Spectrum of gnesium .
Spark Series *Used in calculation of constants .
Spark Series * Used in calculation of constants .
It will be seen that the calculated limits of the two series are practically identical , and that the values of differ by very nearly , as is also the case with hydrogen .
The two spark series of magnesium are similar to the two Principal series attributed to , and run nearly parallel to them , as will be evident from the ison of the respective frequencies:\mdash ; Limits .
HPI Diff Mg HPII Diff Limits .
The similarity not only refers to the distribution of the lines in series , but also , to a considerable extent , to the manner in which the two sets of lines .are produced .
136 New Series of Lines the Spectrum of Magnesium .
Besides the above lines , there are four other magnesium spark lines which do not belong to the series .
They are very hazy in the spark itself , but are well defined in the arc in vacuo .
The wave-lengths of these lines are , and Discussion .
If the new magnesium lines are to be regarded as forming series , the -Schuster law of limits would lead us to expect associated Diffuse and Sharp series , with their common limit at 49776-22309 , i.e. 27467 .
The series of single lines , however , has its limit at 26618 , and there is apparently no other series which can be supposed to have any closer relation to the spark lines .
In the case of hydrogen there is a similar discrepancy , but of much smaller amount ; thus , 48764-21334 , while the limit of the Balmer series is actually at would thus appear that the -Schuster law , in its present form , does not accurately connect the spark series with series produced in the arc .
Or it may be that the law fails only when there are two Principal series converging to the same limit .
bion may be called , however , to another possible relation between the spark and the Bydberg series .
If , in the application of the RydbergSchuster rule , we use the iable part of the spark equation given by , in place of the actual limit of the series and , we get a much closer approximation to the limit of the Rydberg series .
Thus , , and , if the first line of series be subtracted from this , it gives 26482 , differing by 136 from the of the Rydberg series .
A still closer approximation is obtained if a simple equation be calculated for series E2 , namely , from the first two lines , This gives , and 22309 as before , the result is 26558 , differing by only 60 from the limit of the fiydberg series .
In view of the approximate character of all series equations , there is thus a strong suspicion that the spark series may be related to the Rydberg series in such a way that the limit of the latter is equal to the difference between the variable part of the equation for the second spark series with and the frequency of the first line of the first spark series .
It should be mentioned , however , that , in the case of hydrogen , the discrepancy is slightly increased if this alteration in the -Schuster law be made .
In this notation signifies " " variable part\ldquo ; of equation .
Series Lines in the Spectrum of gnesium .
Until other examples of spark series have been discovered , it is evident that no definite conclusion can be drawn .
An alternatiye view would be to suppose that the new series , both in magnesium and hydrogen , are series of a uew type , having no necessarily simple relation to other series in the respective spectra .
In that case the two series attributed to might equally be supposed to belong to helium , the presence of which is necessary for their production in the laboratory ; it is difficult to believe , however , that the close agreement of one of the series with the Principal series calculated for hydrogen by Rydberg is merely accidental .
Additional Triplets and other Series Lines in the Spectrum of By A. FOWLER , F.B.S. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and , South Kensington , and W. H. BEYNOLDS , B.Sc. , , Research Student .
( Received June 12 , \mdash ; Bead June 26 , 1913 .
) [ PLATE 7 .
] Recent of the spectrum of the rnesium arc in vacuo , taken primarily for the investigation of enhanced lines , *have revealed several additional members of the triplet and single line series .
For some of the previously known lines it has also been possible to obtain improved wavelengths on account of their greater sharpness under these conditions .
It is believed that the results will form a useful contribution to the general study of series lines , and they have accordingly been brought together in the present communication .
For the representation of the series , the formula , as modified by and Hicks , been employed , namely ' * See Fowler , this vol. , p. 133 .
' Roy .
Acad. Amsterdam Proc 1906 , vol. 9 , p. 434 .
'Phil .
Trans. ' 1910 , , vol. 210 , p. 57 .

