]\gt ; ii Notices of deceased .
famous club were , however , then and it came to an end in 1876 .
He took his degree in the Mathematical Tripos of 1876 as Third Wrangler , bracketed with Mr. Trimmer , of Trinity College , a very brilliant.man who suffered from persistent ill-health and died within a few months of taking his .
As Dr. Glazebrook and Dr. Shaw both raduated in the same Tripos and Lord Rayleigh was the additional Examiner , Physics was well represented on this occasion .
After degree Pointing came back for a short time to the Owens College , which was now in the buildings it at present occupies , and demonstrated in the Physical Laboratory under Prof. Balfour Stewart , who had succeeded Jack as Professor of Natural Philosophy shortly before Poynting 's departure for On his election to a Fellowship at Trinity College in 1878 , Pointing returned to Cambridge and began , in the Cavendish Laboratory under Clerk Maxwell , those experiments on the mean density of the earth which were destined to occupy so much of his time for the next 10 years .
He remained at unti11880 , when he was elected to the Chair of Physics in Mason College , Birmingham ( now the University of Birmingham ) , which had just been this post he held until his death .
The year that he went to , he married the daughter of the late Rev. J. Cropper , of Stand , near Manchester .
He threw himself whole-heartedly into the arduous duties connected with the of a new Uniyersity , the preparation of his lectures and the equipment of the physical laboratory , and , as was his wont , without any bustle or hurry he soon had efficiently .
And so in the efficient discharge of his duties as a Professor , in successful original research , in the fulfilment of municipal duties , the time passed placidly on , the only cloud on an almost idyllic domestic life being his somewhat indifferent health , the first threatenings of the disease from which he ultimately died .
To see if a country would suit his health better than a town one , the Poyntings nloved from Edgbaston to ] Hill , Alvechurch , a house about 12 miles out of Birmingham .
There was a small farm attached to the house and Pointing entered into most heartily , though I am afraid he did not de1ive much pecuniary profit from it .
But even farming when the agricultural depression was most acute could not impair his good temper or ruffle his equanimity .
If the farm did not yield money , it gave new interests and experiences , and if something was always going wrong , at any rate it drove away monotony .
The quietness and simplicity of the life were thoroughly to the taste of Mrs. Pointing and himself .
Life in the country too gave free scope to his taste for Natural History , in which he always took great interest ; he was a keen and excellent observer , and a favourite contention of his was that physicists were somewhat too much inclined to confine their ) to expel.iments made in the laboratory and did not sufficiently avail themselves of the opportunities of studying the physical phenomena going on in the sky , the sea , and earth .
The taste for Natura 1 John Henry Pointing .
History was a family one ; his younger brother , the late Mr. F. Pointing , was an excellent ornith 1 , devoting himself especially to the study of the of British birds , of which he made most careful and accurate water-colour drawings\mdash ; some of these have been reproduced in his book The Eggs of Briti sh Birds .
' The stayed at Foxhill until 1901 , when , his health much improved , they returned to Edgbaston .
His life at this time was a busy one , for in addition to the work demanded from him as the head of a large and successful School of Physics , he aoted as the Dean of the Faculty of Science , was a Justice of the Peace , and for some time Chairman of the Birmingham Horticultural Society .
He had also to plan and superintend the erection of a new phvsical laboratory when his department was transferred from its old quarters to the new buildings of the University of Birminghanl .
He went with the British Association to Canada in 1907 , when it met at Winnipeg , and gave one of the evening lectures ; his subject was the Pressure of Light , on which he had been for several years .
He went the trip to Vancouver and back and seemed thoroughly to enjoy the visit .
The pressure of light was also the subject of a lecture which he gave in Trench at Paris before the French Physical Society at Easter 1911 .
In the spring of 1912 a severe attack of influeIJza was followed by a recrudescence of diabetes , a disease from which he had suffered for some time , and he was ordered to take a long rest ; he was , in consequence , away from Birmingham for two terms .
On his return to Birmingham he seemed much better , he took an active part in } meeting of the British Association held there in September , 1913 , and he and Mrs. Pointing entertained a party of physicists at their house in Ampton , and it then seemed as if he might hope to enjoy many years of useful work .
Another attack of influenza in the spring of 1914 brought on a very severe attack of diabetes , and he died on March 30 , 1914 .
It is difficult to attempt to say what Pointing was to his friends without terms which must appear gerated to ttJose who did not know him .
He had a genius for friendship , and a sympathy so delicate and acute that whether you were well or ill , in high spirits or low , his presence was a comfort and a delight .
During a friendship which lasted for more than thirty years , I never saw him cvry or impatient and never heard him say a bitter or unkind thing about man , woman or child .
He took pleasure in many , in music , in literature , for } was a lover 'of books and a collector in a modest way , in novels of all kinds , good and bad .
He was fond of the country , and especially of North Wales , where he spent most of his vacations , but happiest of all ] at home with his family .
Throughout his life he took considerable interest in Philosophy , and a discussion of the philosophical basis of sics formed part of his Presidential Address to Section A at the Dover of the British Association .
Views similar to those he there expressed are now ] ) by many ; he had his years before , when but few in country agreed with them .
The excellence Obituary Notices of FellovJs deceased .
of his work received many recognitions , though not in my opinion so many as it deselved .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1888 , received a Royal Medal in served on the Council to 1911 and was VicePresident in 1910-11 .
He received the Adams Prize from the University of Cambridge in , the Hopkins Prize from the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1903 .
President of Section A when the British Association met at Dover in 1899 and was President of the Physical Society in 1909-11 .
He was in great request as an Examiner in Physics and no one excelled him at this work , his long experience of students , his judgment and common sense , the charitable view he took of the limitations of a student 's knowledge , and the fact that he was never afraid of setting easy papers , made him an eminently fair and discriminating examiner .
He was very successful as a teacher of students of all kinds , those who only took Physics as a subsidiary subject as well as those who made it their life 's work , he inspired these with an enthusiasm for research and .
with some of his own skill in accuracy of measurement and in the tlJoroughness of their work .
SCIENTIFIC WORKS .
This may be divided into four groups : studies on gravitational attraction , ( b ) on the change of state , ( c ) on the transl.er of energy in the netic lield , and ( d ) on the pressure of light .
tional Aitraction .
His experiments on the mean density of the earth were commenced in Cambridge in 1878 but it took twelve years ' steady work before he obtained a result with which he was satisfied .
The method used was to measure the attraction veen two known masses A and by suspending A from one of the arms of a balance of the ordinary type and finding the increase in weight produced when was underneath it .
The , balance used in the later experiments was one built specially for the experiment by Oel.tling and had a beam 123 cm . .
With a balance of this size the difficulties arising from air currents proved very formidable .
Pointing fully recognised the advantage of Boys ' short torsion balance method in this respect and said that if he were designing the apparatus , instead of using an exceptionally large balance for the sake of being able to suspend large masses , he should go to the other extreme and make the apparatus as small as possible .
At the same time , as he points out , the magnitude of effects produced by the air currents made their detection easy , whereas they might have been overlooked and not allowed for had they been smaller .
The final ults ( ' Phil. rans .
, vol. 182 , p. 565 , 1891 ) he obtained for , the mean density of the earth , and , the gravitational were John Henry Poynting 's long ation incidentally added considerably to our knowledge of the technique of accurate With the co-operation of Gray he made a series of most } ) ments Phil. Trans to see if the attraction bebween two quartz crystals was the when the axes of the crystals were parallel when they were crossed .
The method he used was a very ingenious application of the principle of forced oscillations , which , so effective that , one sphere was only about 1 cm .
in diameter and the other about 6 , the experiments showed that the attractions in the two positions could not differ by as much as 1 part in 10,000 .
Later he made with Phillips a series of experiments to see if weight depended on temperature , as in his experiments a balance of the ordinary type ; the result of these was ( ' Proc. .
Soc vol. 76 , p. 445 , 1905 ) that between C. and 10 C. the in is not greater than 1 in and between C. and C. it is not so great as 1 in per 1o C. Change of State .
The problem of the change of was one which he took especial interest , and it was the subject of one of his earliest papers Phil. , vol. , p. 32 , 1887 .
His way of picturing this change was to suppose that from the surface of a liquid or solid particles were continually free , so that through each unit of area of the surface there was a constant escape of molecules .
This loss was balanced by the ) assage from the vapour above the solid some of the gaseous particles struck ainsC its surface , so that when there equilibrium the flow out from the liquid or solid was balanced by the flow inward the gas .
The proportion aseous molecules which after striking the surface passed across to the solid or liquid state he assumed to be the same for a solid as for a liquid and to be independent of the temperature , so that it could be measured by the vapour pressule .
Thus at the same temperature the flow across water would be to the vapour pressure of water , that across ice to the vapour pressure of ice , thus ice could only be in equilibrium with water when the vapour pressure over ice is equal to that over water .
Pointing supposed that the mobility of the molecules in liquids and solids is increased by pressure\mdash ; the pressure as it were squeezing the molecules out : the amount of the increase depending on the density of the substance , diminishing as the density increases .
Thus , if pressure increases the escape of the molecules from a liquid , a liquid under pressure will evaporate more freely , and so for it to be in equilibrium with its vapour the vapour pressure must be than that over the normal liquid ; from the equilibrium between water and its vapour in a capillary tube , he found that if is the increase in the vapour pressure produced by applying a pressnre to the liquid , , where is the density of the vapour and that of the liquid .
Pointing applied this conception of mobility to the case of solutions , taking the view that the molecules of the salt formed with some of the vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
water molecules and thus diminished their mobility diminishing the number of water molecules which passed from the liquid state through ach unit of area of surface per second .
The mobility of pure water is thus greater than that of the solution , so that if the two are separated by a semi-permeable membrane more molecules will pass from the water to the solution than from the solution to } water , and the water will flow into the solution .
To prevent this flow the mobility of the molecules of water in the solution must be increased by the application of a pressure that will make the mobility of the solution equal to that of pure water ; this pressure is the osmotic pressure .
Since under this pressure the mobility of the solution is equal to that of pure water the vapour pressure in equilibrium with the pressed solution will be the vapour pressure over pure water , so that another delinition of osmotic pressure would be the pressure required to raise the vapour pressure over the solution to that over pure water .
On the assumption that the presence of one molecule of salt to of water would diminish the mobility of the water in the proportion of , which would be the case if a molecule of salt imprisoned one and only one molecule of water , showed that the osmotic pressure on his theory would be the pressure exerted by the salt molecules if they were in the gaseous state and occupying the volume of the solution .
Though this theory does not connect the electrical properties of solutions with the properties associated with osmotic pressure so readily as the dissociation theory , it is so simple and fundamental that it helps to give vividness and .
definiteness to our picture of the processes operative in solutions .
ansJer of Energy .
The researches by which Pointing is most widely known are those published in the papers " " On the Transfer of Energy in the Electromagnetic Field\ldquo ; Phil. Trans and\ldquo ; On Electric Currents and the Electric and Magnetic Induction in the Surrounding Field\ldquo ; Phil. Trans .
He says in the first paper , " " The aim of this paper is to prove that there is a general law for the transfer of energy , according to which it moves at any point perpendicularly to the plane containing the lines of electric and magnetic force , and that the amount crossing unit of area per second of this plane is equal to the product of the two forces multiplied by the sine of the angle between them divided by 4 , while the direction of the flow of energy is that in which a right-handed screw would move if turned round from the positive direction of the electromotive to the positive direction of the magnetic intensity He shows from the equation of the electromagnetic field that the rate of increase in the energy inside a closed surface is equal to where is an element of the closed surface , the direction cosines of the normal to the surface , the components of the electromotive intensity , and those of the magnetic force .
This expression may be .
Vlll Notices of ellows deceased .
the current through the wire were an one with very high frequency the electric force near the wire would be at angles to it .
In this case the would flow parallel to the wire but outside it .
In the second paper Pointing , taking the view that the electromagnetic field consists of ibutions of lines of electric and magnetic force , discusses the question of the transfer of energy from the point of view of the movement of these lines .
He applies the same considerations to the question of the residual charge in Leyden jars in his fascinating and instrnctive paper on Discharge of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator ( ' Phil. Mag vol. 5 , 1886 , p. 419 ) .
Poynting 's vector occurs as a quantity of fundamental importance in theories of netic action in which the subject is approached from a point of view somewhat different from the one he adopted .
It appears , for example , as a measure of the momentum per unit volume when the electromagnetic field is regarded as a mechanical system and the properties of the field as the result of the laws of motion of such a system .
It appears , too , when we magnetic force as the result of the motion of tubes of electric force , the direction of motion of these tnbes being parallel to Poynting 's vector .
of Iight .
For some years before his death Pointing devoted much attention to the question of radiation and the pressure of light .
On the theory of this subject he ished Phil. Trans a very valuable paper , in the first part of which he discusses the application of the fourth-power law of radiation to determine the temperature of planets ( in this he found afterwards he had been anticipated by Christiansen ) .
Among other interesti1lg results he arrived at the conclusion that the temperature of Mars must be so low that life , as we know it , would be impossible on its surface , this result was criticised by Lowell , but Pointing xinCained his ground in a paper published in the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' December , 1907 .
The second part of the paper in the ' Philosophical Iransactions ' contains investigations of the repulsive force between two hot spheres hich arises from the radiation from the one tending to repel the other .
He showed that if the bodies are in radiation equilibrium with the LQun at the distance of the Earth from it , the repulsive effect will be greater than the gravitational attraction between them if their radii are less than cm .
, if their density were that of water ; if they were made of lead the corresponding radius would be cm .
Thus if Saturn 's ings consisted of very small particles it is possible that the effect of radiation make them repel instead of attract each other .
He considers at the end of the paper the effect produced by radiation on the orbits of small bodies round the Sun and shows that this would ultimately cause them to fall into that body .
To quote his own words : ' The Sun cannot tolerate dust .
With the pressure of light he drives the finest particles altog away from his system .
With his heat he warms the larger particles .
They give out this heat again and with it some of that energy which enables them to withstand Henry Pointing .
ix his attraction .
Slowly he draws them to hi1nself and at last they unite with him and end their separate existence ( ' essure of Light , ' ' Bomance of Science ' Series .
) He made important contributions to the experimental side of the subject , thus with Dr. Barlow he established the existence of the force produced when light is reflected from a surface at which there is some absorption , and also the existence of a torque when light passes through a prism .
They also succeeded in demonstrating the existence of the ecoil from light of a surface giving out radiation : an account of these experiments was given in the Bakerian Locture for 1910 Proc. .
These ations involved the detection of exceeding minute forces and gave ample ope for Poynting 's in devising methods and apparatus .
He had exceptionally good mechanical instincts and an excellent knowledge of the capabilities of instruments ; the result was that ths apparatus he designed was always simple and effective .
In addition to papers published in scientific journals and the Transactions of Society he wrote ' The Mean Density of the Earth : The Adams Prize Essay for 1893 , ' ' The Pressure of Light ' Romance of Science ' Series ) and The Earth ' ( Camblidge UniversiCy Press ) .
Of the ' Text Book of Physics ' written in conjunction with J. J. Thomson he wrote the whole of the volume on Sound and Heat and of the first volume of Electricity and and the chapters on Gravitation in the Properties of Matter .
His writings exhibit to the full the clearness , simplicity and ness which was characteristic of all his work .
J. J. T. JAMES FRANCIS TENANT ( 1829-1915 ) .
LIEUT .
EBAL JAlIES F. TENANT , C.T.E. , , was born at Calcutta January 10 , 1829 , being the eldest son of Captain ( afterwards BrigadierGeneral ) James Tenant , of the Artillery , who comman the Artillery during the last Sikh War and received the K.C.B. for his services .
The son entered the service of the East India Company , after the usual training , in June , 1847 ; a beautiful little sextant , which he used throughout his life to excellent purpose , bears the inscription : " " Presented at the Public Examination on June 11 , 1847 , to Gentleman Cadet James F. TeIlnant by the Honourable Court of Directors of the East India Company as a mark of the Court 's approbation of his attainments in Mathematics while at the Military Seminary He landed at Calcutta as 2nd Lieutenan6 in the Bengal Engineers in March , 1849 , was promoted 1st Lieutenant in 2nd Captain in 1858 , 1st Captain 1862 , and so through other promotions to full Colonel on the last day of 1878 .
He seems to have been attached from the time of his landing in India to the Great Trigonometrical Survey .
The magnificent reports of this Survey have apparently not yet been indexed , so that it is not easy to trace the history of individuals , though full details of personnel are given under the heading of each operation .
In vol. 2 , p. 12 , we read that the Karachi longitudinal series was completed in four field seasons , ending in April , 1853 , by Captain A. Strange , " " with occasional Qtance from Mr. C. Lane and Lieutenant J. T. ( sic Tenant A later reference shows that the T. is a misprint for F. , and since the interval of four seasons carries the date back to 1849 , the year of Tennant 's landing in India , it may be presumed that he this work at once .
He was then put in charge of a part of the Great Indus series , starting at the Karachi base , and carrying the survey 90 miles to the north in , adding another 96 miles in 1855-6 .
He was then transferred to the Jogi Tila series ( meridian ) and did 60 miles , before the outbreak of the Mutiny ] him to volunteer for active service in August , He was appointed to the Delhi Field Force as Field Engineer , and afterwards Garrison Engineer , was transferred to Lucknow in 1858 , and was attached to that force during the siege of Lucknow , being mentioned in General Outram 's roll of officers deserving honourable mention at the siege .
There is a letter from him in ' Mon .
Not .
R.A.S. , ' vol. 18 , p. 287 ( June , 1858 ) , relative to the instruments of the Lucknow Observatory , which opens thus : The writer of fiis notice has been privileged to see the statement of service drawn up by ColoneI Tenant in 1882 .
It is remarkable , as tricks of memory , that these important dates are there quoted one year wrong , putting the Mutiny in 1858-69 !
James Tenant .
" " I believe I was the only member of the Society present at the capture and occupation of Lucknow , and I think possibly some account of what has been the fate of the observatory and instruments may , though almost all hope of the latter ever being found , be not The following paragraph from vol. 2 , p. 17 , of the Survey , ' referring to these dark times , is of peculiar interest to us at the present moment .
" " Though in this liod the operations had to suspended for some years , in several quarters , in consequence of the troubles caused by the Mutiny of the Bengal Army , whiJe all India was distracted by war and tumult\mdash ; these works of science and peace advanced steadily , though at a slower rate of progress than would otherwise have been possible ; the surveyors were transferred from districts where they would certainly have been murdered , to others where they probably would not be , and , as it happily turned out were not , murdered .
Several of the Military Officers quitted the survey temporarily , and served at the siege of Delhi , the relief of Lucknow , and in various actions against the rebels ; others had the more trying duty to perform of remaining to continue the work of the survey , when they would rather have joined their , in the struggle on which the fate of the British Empire in India was depending .
When it was nearly all over , Lord Canning , the -General of India , wrote a letter to Colonel Waugh , acknowledging his reports of the operations of this Survey , from which the following paragraph has been extracted:\mdash ; " " ' I cannot resist telling you , at once , with how much satisfaction I have seen these papers .
It is a pleasure to turn from the troubles and anxieties with which India is still beset , and to find that a igantic work , of permanent peaceful usefulness , and one which will assuredly take the highest rank as a work of scientific]abour and skill , has been steadily and rapidly progressing , through all the turmoil of the last two years.\ldquo ; ' In the latter part of operations were commenced on the [ Gurhagarh Series , Meridian ] at the north end during , by the Rahun Party , under Major Tenant , the country through which the latter series lay being too disturbed from the effects of the mutiny to admit of its being continued without risk to the safety of the instruments , and the members of the survey employed\ldquo ; ( vol. 4 , p. 7 , F ) .
But the breakdown in health of Captain Jacob , Director of the Madras Observatory , led to the appointment of Major Tenant as temporary Director ( October , 1859-October , 1860 ) pending the selection of Mr. N. R. Pogson , who reached India early in 1861 .
Tenant apparently did not return to survey work , and the noteworthy incidents in the remainder of his career centre in the observations of the total eclipses of 1868 and 1871 , and the transit of Venus in 1874 .
He officiated as Master of the Mint in Calcutta on various occasions , and was ultimately in permanent charge from January 18 , 1876 , to February 6 , 1882 , when he retired and came to England .
He became a constant attendant at the meetings of the Royal Astronomical Society , served on the Council Xll Obituary Notices of Fellous deceased .
1885-1894 , and was President in 1890-91 .
He was elected S. in after the successful observations of the eclipse of 1868 .
Apart from the eclipse work , Tennant 's astronomical papers call for Iittle notice at this day .
His first paper , presented to the oyal Astronomical Society soon after his election to its Fellowship in , dealt with a method " " of relieving the weight of the moving portion of an altazimuth and is characteristic both of the man and the times .
His suggestion was to obtain " " hydraulic relief\ldquo ; by means of an oil reservoir .
He was an alert observer , reluctant to accept an instrument as finally satisfactory ; and though nothing seems to have come of his gestion at the time , he had the pleasure , many years later , of his friend , Dr. A. A. Common , use " " hydraulic relief\ldquo ; successfully in the mounting of his huge five-foot equatorial .
In subsequent papers Tenant considered improvements for the sextant , the transit , the chronometer , the prime vertical transit , the pendulum , and even the tables of arithms necessary for use with all of them .
He was ungrudging of labour , and spent the leisure of his retirement in Engand in compiling a useful table of the positions of 400 or 500 observatories with the parallax factor for each ; or computing the orbits of various comets ; or tracing the formation of telescopic images by numerical methods .
It would serve no good purpose to follow these activities in detail here , for the sympathetic attention they once obtained is passing away , if it is not already gone , with those who solved the problems pressing for solution half a century ago .
A single instance will suffice to remind of the change that has come over astronomical work .
In one of his papers , as late as 1875 , Tenant calls attention to three stars within of the Pole , which Groombridge noted as of 6 magnitude .
Apparently more stars near the Pole were wanted for survey work , and it was to find that these three were not to be seen in the instruments used .
Were they , perhaps , variable ?
TenIlant 's only resource was to call attention to the matter in the hope that further observations might throw light on it .
Nowadays it is perfectly easy for us to turn to half a dozen catalogues , all of which show that 's estimates are two magnitudes in error , while as regards variability ( though the evidence can , of course , never be complete ) the presumption is strongly against any sensible change .
We have almost forgotten how little was known about casual stars half a century ago .
There is , however , another side to Tennant 's work which reveals more of his qualities .
His alertness made him a pioneer in new regions that are still explored .
The eclipse of 1868 marked an epoch in the history of solar work : it has become famous by giving Janssen*the clue which Sir Norman Lockyer independently made the same discovery , and thongh he only observed the chromosphere lines after the eclipse results became known in this country , the instrument means of which they were observed was in the hands of the maker before the eclipse took place , and there is no reasonable doubt that he would have seen the lines even though they had not been observed during eclipse .
James Francis Xlll enabled him to see the chromosphere in full daylight .
It was Tenant who first called attention to the favourable nature of this opportunity nearly two years beforehand , in a paper to the Royal Astronomical Society .
He calculated the requisite data : he was entrusted by the Government , on the recommendation of the Royal Astronomical Society , with the general ements for tion , and he carried them out successfully .
Moreover , he showed the true spirit of enterprise by his anxiety to use the raphic method , then comparatively new : and here , is hard for us to ealise what it meant to override strong traditions eYen some prejudices ) , and to facc the ditficulties of wet-plate .
He did not make the actual exposures himself , though that had been his first intention when he had the promised assistance of LieutenaIlt ( now Colonel ) Herschel to take charge of the spectroscope : on the latter being detached for duty elsewhere , Tenant reluctantly took charge of the spectroscope .
hi1nself , but he instructed the photographers in the necessary operations , initiating that system of drill which has become a regular feature of eclipse work .
[ The novelty of such work at the time is illustrated by a footnote in Tennant 's report .
on the desirability of a good supply of tools !
] The showed only the merest traces of Corona , a failure which , from subsequent experience in 1871 , Tenant ascribed to the haze obscuring the sun .
But this did not prevent spectroscopic observations by Tenant ( who found the spectrum continuous ) , and polariscopic by Captain Branfill , ( who found strong polarisation ) , and the former accordingly summed up his conclusions as follows:\mdash ; First : Corona is the atmosphere of the Sun , not self-luminous but shining by reflected : The Great Horn ( prominence ) certainly was composed of incandescent vapours , and probably all the brilliant protuberances are the same .
We have so little quarrel with these statements to-day that it is almost difficult to read them with interest .
But the environment of the time was strangely different .
Many astronomers still thought that the corona was a terrestrial , or perhaps a lunar phenomenon , a view which was thened by the observations made in Aurerica at the 1869 eclipse .
For one the Americans found its light unpolarised .
This will suffice to show that Tennant 's observations and conclusions were at least a useful contribution on the tTht side at a critical time .
In view of the " " contradictions which the American eclipse of 1869 had produced , and to reconcile these , if possible Tenant observed the eclipse of December 1871 , this time with Captain Herschel 's help , as also that of Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey and Captain J. Waterhouse , to whom the raphs were entrusted , with a success which has become famous .
It was recognised that the light of the corona was not wholly reflected ; but we may fairly ascribe Tennant 's failure to see the bright lines in 1868 to the same haze which obliterated the corona from the photographs .
The conditions in 1871 were clearly much better .
xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows The transit of Venusin 1874 was a piece of congenial work for Tenant .
After this his duties took a more business-like form until his return to England .
When the Astrographic Conference of 1887 was called , he was very naturally one of the British delegates .
As President of the Royal Astronomical Society he delivered an address on the work of Sir G. H. Darwin , there being no medallist in his first year of office .
As already intimated , he was keenly intel.ested in the large reflecting telescopes set up by Dr. Common at Ealing , and always ready to work out any special mathematical problem which arose in the course of the work .
For the last 20 years he has not attended scientific meetings .
He died on March 6 , 1915 , at the ripe of 86 .
H. H. T. WILLIAM JAMES SELL , 1847-1915 , WILLIAM JAMES SELL was born in 1847 at Cambridge , and had his early education at one of the primary schools of his native town .
There his personal character and rapid progress in learning soon attracted the notice of the master .
His scientific education at the chemical laboratory of .
John 's College , where , at the age of 14 , he was employed by the Professor of Chemistry .
At that time this laboratory , maintained by the College and , with great liberality , placed at the disposal of the University Professor , was the only place in where raduates could get any instruction in practical chemistry .
Subsequently in 1866 , when the University provided some rooms for a students ' laboratory , Sell became lecture assistant to the Professor of Chemistry .
He was one of those who knew how to take pains and soon made himself proficient in his duties , and became the professor 's right hand in his efforts to establish a school of chemistry .
Ihose were days of small , when the University had little money , and when the prejudice against physical science may be gathered from the words of an eminent literary professor , who said that the University was no more called on to teach practical chemistry than to teach shoe-making .
Sell 's heart was in his scientific work , and the students , mostly beginners , acknowledged the help he freely gave them in the difficulties of manipulation .
He had married in 1870 , and , as soon as circumstances permitted , he matriculated in the University as a member of Christ 's College , and with characteristic courage set to work , in vaqation and in the evenings when the laboratory was closed , to learn Latin and Greek , of which , heretofore , he knew nothing .
He passed all the preliminary examinations without one failure , and in 1876 obtained William James Sell .
xv first class honours in Natural Science at the final examination for the B.A. degree .
Having this proof of his qualification for , he now changed his position in the laboratory and took up the posl of Demonstrator , and on the retirement of Dr. Hicks ( afterwards Bishop of Bloemfontein ) , succeeded him as principal Demonstrator , and retained that post to the end of his life .
To the way in which he fulfilled the duties of his position the laboratory owes much of its prosperity , its rapid expansion , and the after success of those trained in it .
Never making difficulties himself , he nevertheless did not belittle the difficulties of others , and was most and patient in his endeavours to remove them .
His love of doing everything well , and his unwillingness to take for granted anything of which the truth could be tested experimentally , were reflected in the work which he superintended , and had a prevailing influence on his pupils .
His teaching , however , was not confined to , for he was always ready , wherever a gap appeared , to try and fill it to the best of his ability .
Such gaps were frequent in the early days when the resources of the University were unequal to meet the ever-recurring demands made by the rapid development of physical science and Sell came to be really an efficient assistant professor , taking a full share of the lectures and of all the instruction in chemistry .
The Uniyersity never properly recognised what he did .
He ought to have been yiven the office of Reader in Chemistry .
Sell himself was so modest , and so free from any kind of self-assertion , that his merits and his work were little known outside the laboratory , and when a movement was initiated to get him appointed Reader , it was not denied that he had a good claim , none a better , but the authorities seem to have thought , because readerships were demanded in other dopartments and the University had not the means of them all , that the easiest course was to refuse them all .
Sell never made any complaint of being unappreciated .
All that was done for him was to give him a University Lectureship with a stipend of a year , and he frankly accepted it .
Notwithstanding his close attention to official duties , he found some time for original researches in more than one line .
Of these , the most important were a long series of iuvestigations on pyridine derivatives , which were the subject of more than a score of papers published in the ' Transactions of the Chemical Society of Lond ' In some cases he was assisled in this work by one or other of the Junior Demonstrators , and their names appear as joint authors of the published papers .
Iu others he was sole author , and the thoroughness of the work is characteristic of him .
Many new products were obtained and their properties carefully observed .
Of these there are hardly any of which he t.ailed to establish satisfactorily the chemical constitution ; and the whole form a substantial addition to Chemical Science .
Interesting communications by him on the salts of a base containing chromium and urea were published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' and on colloid solntions of ferric and other phosphates iu the ' Proceedings of the Philosophical Society .
' Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In 1900 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London , and in 1906 he took the degree of Doctor in Science in Cambridge .
His personal character is pretty well indicated in the foregoing remarks .
His colleagues all testify to his loyalty in the cause of the advancement of learning , and to the ] , but unobtrusive , way in which he assisted them whenever occasion called for it ; and nlany of his pupils own , not merely how much they learnt from him , but the affection with which his personal influence inspired them .
G. D. L. ARTHUR AUWERS , 1838\mdash ; 191 THE life work of Auwers consisted largely in the co-ordination of astronomical observations .
Since the time of Bradley , 1755 , and particularly in the nineteenth century , the positions of many thousands of stars have been determined at many observatories .
Not only are the obseryations ffected by accidental errors of very different amounts , but they are also liable to systematic errors .
The determination of these systematic errors and the value to be attached to different observations is of more difficulty .
and importance than would appear at sight .
The reason for this is that the stars are all in motion inter se , and that the proper motions or movements of the stars are of as great importance as their relative positions at a given epoch .
As these angular movements are comparatively small , considerable increase in the accuracy with which they may be determined is secured by careful discussion and refinement of the observations .
Particularly is this necessary for determinations of precession , solar motion or systematic movements among the stars .
Three astronomers , Auwers , Newcomb , and Boss , rendered pre-eminent service in this work during the last 50 years .
Ihanks to their efforts the positions and movements of the brighter have been determined with great accuracy , by making use of the best observations and those which are most free from systematic error , spread over as wide an epoch as possible .
The positions of these stars have then been used to derive the systematic errors of many star catalogues , which have thus become available for the more accurate determination of the positions and movements of many thousands of fainter stars .
Friedrich Julius Arthur was born at GoCtingen on September 12 , 1838 .
His astronomical career began at the observatory of that University in 1856 .
As a student of astronomy he made meridian observations of comets and minor planets , varying his occupation by an Arthur xvii occasional computation of orbits .
In addition he was interested in variable stars , whose importance had been brought prominently forward by elander .
Auwers made observations of many of the variables then known , the famous stars Ceti and Lyrae , and discovered the variability of several other stars , among others of Orionis and Iauri .
It was also his fortune a few years later to discover a new star , " " Nova Scorpii In 1859 he was appointed assistant at the Obseryatory of Konigsberg , scene of Bessel 's labours from 1810 to 1846 .
He remained at sberg only three years , but in this short time determined the parallax of Lal Ursae Majoris , and 61 Cygni with the famous heliometer with which Bessel had determined the parallax of 61 Cygni in 1838 .
He also made an exhaustive investigation of the irregularities in the proper motions of Sirius and Procyon , to which Bessel had drawn attention and attributed to the presence of massive but invisible companions .
These companions discovered many years later , and the periods and other elements of ' orbits determined by Auwers were closely verified .
From 1862 to 1866 Auwers was an assistant at the Obseryatory at Gotha .
Here he added to his determinations of stellar parallax by that of Groomb 34 by observations of transits with an equatorial at the two periods of parallactic elongation .
The result was very satisfactory and agrees closely with modern photo , raphic determinations .
While at Gotha he published in 1865 his first important contribution to fundamental astronomy .
This consisted in the establishment of Fundamental System of Declinations\ldquo ; and a determination of the systematic corrections required by different to bring them into harmony with it .
The basis of system tions is the mean of 13 catalogues dating from 1820 to 1860 , including those of Bessel , Struve , Argelander , Pond , Henderson , Johnson ( Si .
Helena ) , and Airy .
The proper motions were obtained by comparison with dley ' positions for as given in Bessel 's ' Fundamenta Astronomiae .
' In 1866 Auwers was appointed a member of the Academy of Scienccs and changed his residence from Gotha to Berlin .
He commenced the work of the re-reduction of Bradley 's observations about this time and pursued it ssiduously for 10 years .
Bradley 's observations were made at Greenwich from 1752 to 1760 , with a new transit instrument cllld quadrallt , both executed with great care and skill by Bird .
After death the observations passed into the hands of his executors , and were finally presented to the University of Oxford .
Forty-three years after Bradley 's death they were published by the University in two folio volumes , the first of which ] , edited by Hornsby , appeared in 1798 , and the second , edited by The observations as published were u1treduced .
In 1807 Olbers his copy to Bessel , who undertook their reduction and published the results in 1819 in his ' Fundamenta Astronomiae .
' The progress of astronomy in the first half of the nineteenth century , to which this work contributed , made a further and more complete reduction of Pradley 's observations both possible and able .
Auwers made the re-reduction with VOL. XCII .
XVIII Notices of deceased .
characteristic thoroughuess .
He obtained Bradley 's manuscripts and went through them figure by figure .
The mean position for was calculated for each observation , and numerous ertOl .
S were detected by the comparison of the erent observations of the same star .
The instrumental errors were , and particular care was devoted to the relative position of the clock-stars so that the intervals be correct for stars distant from one another in right asceusion .
Similar care was lavished on the determination of the index errol .
S of the .
For this purpose Auwers educed 1 observations of .
85 stars made by Bradley with the enith sector .
He supplemented these by a series of observations made by Maskelyne between 1768 and 1786 , and a series made by Bradley at Wanstead .
In this manner he compiled a catalogue of the zenith distances of 130 stars distributed over the 24 hours of ascension , which served to points for all the quadrant observations .
This re-reduction gave accurate positions for the epoch 1755 of 3268 of the htest stars observable in the latitude of -observation of the at Greenwich their positions for the epoch 1865 , and a comparison of the observations proper motions with great accuracy .
The whole work was published in volumes ) the Academy of Sciences .
Vol. , giving the catalogue for and the proper motions , appeal'ed in 1888 ; vol. 2 , yivin the ] of separate observations , in 1882 , and vol. the delails of the reduction , in .
The Gold Iedal of the AsGronomical Society was awarded to Auwers in 1888 .
The President of the Society , ) aisher , expressed in his address the meant of onomers on this great work as " " admiration of the manner in which the most refined skill has been combined with the most patient care in its performance\ldquo ; .
Soon after its formation in 1865 the Astlononlische Gesellschaft decided to form a of all stars down to the ninth magnitude between limits of and dec. It was considered that this great project would be carried out most efficiently and economically by making the observations differential .
The construction of the catalogue on which the obseryations should depend was entrusted to Auwers .
He took the Pulkowa catalogue of as a standard with proper motions obtained from comparison with Bradley .
With this provisional system he compared other catalogues and deduced systematic corrections them .
Applying these corrections to the various , he derived new positions and proper motions for each star from all the observations , thus obtaining the greatest accuracy for each star , .
the fundamental catalogue systematically that of Pulkowa 1865 and Bradley ) .
This catalogue was published in 1878 , and was the system of star places adopted by the Berliner bnch .
' Later it was extended from dec. to dec. to serve fur the ones nbsequently added to of the lstronomische Gesellschaft .
The system of declinations of Auwel .
S ' catalogue was

