]\gt ; 1890 .
] Slipping at the of a Liquid Illotion .
225 from different thermometers vary considerably , intermediate temperatures deduced from these curves are in practical eemento .
II .
That thermometers made and graduated as described may be used for the accurate determination of temperatures up to about C. .
On the alleged Slipping at the of a Liquid Motion By W. C. WHETHAM , B.A. , Coutts Trotter Student of Trinity Collcge , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. J. Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge .
Rc.ceived Junc 7 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The experime1lts of Helmholbz and Piotrowski* on the oscillations of a metal sphere suspended bifilarly , and filled with various finite values to the slipping coefficients .
The inside of the sphere was gilded and polished , and the ] obtained for the coefficient was , in the case of distilled warer , mm. From soms experiments of Girard on transpiration through copper ) , Helmholtz deduces the valuc mm. water flowing past a coppel surface .
In treatises on hydrodynamics , it is shown that when the motion through a tnbe is linear , the flux is or In Helmholtz 's notation this becomes ( bein taken as unity ) tting r and , we ; whereas if there is no sJip , so ) , the flux becomes ' Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie , ' vol. 40 .
'Memoires de l'Institut , ' 1813\mdash ; 1815 .
Such a effect as the above shows that the existence of coefficient would be much better investigated by transpiration ments than by oscillating spheres , and an investigation has carried out on these lines .
In order to prevent absolute determinations , the time of flow known volume of water through a tube was observed , the of the tube silvered , and another observation taken with * same pressure and same volumc of water .
I. The water was allowed to run out of a bulb through the ration tube under its own preSSUl'e .
As the result of series of observations on three tnbes , as found that the times of flow for the glass tubes were same to within per cent. as the times for the silvered tubes , rections being made for changes of temperature , and for the decre I90 .
] Slipping at the Boundary of a Liquid in Motion .
227 diameter due to the silver layer .
Different thicknesses of silver are used .
The differcnces in the times were ] within the limits of pel.imental error .
FIG. 2 .
II .
In order to determine whether any ] ipping occurred when the gradient of was pushed near limits of ] motion , as lnvestigated by Prof. Osborne Reynolds , difference of pressure * ' Phi ] .
Trans 1886 .
per cent. ) made in order to compare the times of flow under tks same ressure .
The temperature of the water was observed diately after it had passed the trnspiration tube , by reading a there .
lnomeber immorsed in the , at eqnal intervals , was .
The ] lest tubes which could conveniently r , ilvered had diametel .
of rather less than a millimetre , and in sel.ies of experiments the tubes had diameters of and cm .
The results of four series of experiments showed that in three the times for the and glass surfaces agreed to less than per ceilt .
, and in one case , where the silver was rather too thick , and probably a little ular , the time of flow for the silvered tube per cent. greater .
Even if the slipping effect was only half that deduced by and Piotrowski for gold , the times flow should have been for these than tubes from fifteen to twenty times less for silver than for The two series of experiments given above may therefore be considered a quite satisfactory proof cf identiby .
FIG. 3 .
III .
Girard 's experiments on copper tubes give mm The times of flow for a tube of mm. in diameter about three times less than that given by Poiseuille 's law .
These experi ments were repeated with some solid drawn tubes , kindly made for me by Messrs. Elliott , of Selly Oak , Birminghanl .
The diameters estimated to about per oent .
, by weighing the tube first and then full of water .
By some subsidiary delierminations with glal , I showed that this gave the same result as the usnal methol with mercury .
The in all cases showed agreement with Poiseuille 's observations .
The times of flow were always a Slipping at the of a Liqnid in .
229 , obviously owing to irregularities in the tubes , but less .
The surfaces of the tubes were then modified in various ways : by cleaning with acids and alkalis , by polishing with emery powder , by coating wirh a film of , and by amalgamating with mercury .
In no case , however , could any deviation Poiseuille 's laws be detected .
Girard gives no account of the method he employed the diameters , and this explain his resuIts ; any constant error would of course be more important in ] tubes than in larger ones , and produce the same result as a slipping coefficient .
The tubes I used were some of them smaller than those of Girard , and any slipping would have an even greater effect .
IV .
At the ) ning of Helmholtz and Piotrowski 's paper , the latter claims to have shown by experiments on a fl , plain and silvered , that the friction exerted on it when oscillating by the contained water depended on the nature of the surface .
These experiments were repeated , care being taken to make corrections for temperature , and to prevent rations i the bifilar suspension , which were very apt to .
Both of these were neglected by Piotrowski , who only took two observations of the arithmic decrement and the time of swing for each state of the flask , but deduoed a 4 per cent. difference in ) efi.ictions .
The of my servations a Silvered surface , time of swing . .
sec. .
dec. Unsilvered snrface , , . .
, , , , By the part of Helmholtz 's paper , makes the ttio of the friction on glass to the fricbion on siJvcr The change , if any , is less than per cent. , and the ratio is unif } .
within the of experimental error .
The figures given above are the means of lwelve observntions for the silver , and of twenty-three observations tho , some bein taken before , and somo after , those for the V A modification of Piotrowski 's experiment was then tried .
Instead of the oscillating flask with watel , it was filled sand , and oscillated as a rigid body in a beaker of .
The nary investigation for such cases was applicable , and it is easily that if and are the ions , and the Iog .
decrement and and ' the times of swing for the two cases , Silvered surface . .
sec. .
dec. Glass , , . .
, , Ratio of frictions 1 : The is thus less than per cent. , and within the limits expe ] imental error .
main part of Helmholtz 's paper is taken up with ths sideration of experiments on the oscillalions of an accurately worked sphere .
It is remarkable that he deduces a value for the coefficiont of viscosity which is about a quarter greater than that given by Poiseuille .
This sesms to suggest that a slight changs in the tion of theory to the resuIts of experiment is needed , which with educe the coefficient for the viscosity of the liquid , and increass the value for its adhesion to the walls of the vessel to that required for the condition of no slip .
rPhe existence of any effect approaching in magnitude that given by HelmhoItz would produce , as I have shovrn , such an enormous change in the time of flow through a silvered tube , that the result of my experiments must ) considered quite concluaim .
The argument from the differences in friction due to differences sul'face , in favour of the contact theory of E.M.F. is now sesn to be worthless ; and it must be admitted that no slip occurs , at any with solids that are wetted by the liquid .
III .
" " -determination of the True Weight of a Cubic hJch of Distilled Water By H. J. CHANEY .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 4 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) Recent investigations as to the value of the metric unit of \mdash ; the cubic decimetre\mdash ; appear to show , indirectly , that the eight of a cubic inch of disbilled water grains , in .
\mdash ; the hitherto accepted unit of volume in this is appreciably too high .
This weight grains is based ejghings made by Shuckburgh in 1798 , and on linear by Kater in 1821 ; but their results are affected by uncertainty thermometric and linear measurements , and as to the condition water used .
Hence a direct -determination of the unit of volur in this country appeared now to be desirable .

