]\gt ; On the of th } ) III .
lIelnoir on the Theory of the Partitions of Numbers .
I By Major P. A. Rcceived December 31 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir here presellted is a natural equel to my memoirs of , 1893 , and lS94 , } ) blished i in the ( Philosophical ctions .
' In fundamental idea it is , resting , on the one hand , upon the method of the memoir on the " " Compositions of Numbers of 1893 , and , on the efhod , set forth " " Constructive Theorv of Partitions }Jublished ill vol. 5 of the ' American Journal of ' The memoir is ided into four sections .
S1 I glve } otions c. the partition of ordinary unipartite numbel that the of rations of a partition necessitates ation of the ions of multipartite two proceed in ) .
One-to-one espondence C est at point .
S I ellgaged with the graphical representation of unipartite graph that , in the .
of 1893 , was employed to denote principal compositio of a bipartite numbel is shown the ) cvral ) ] ) also of a rtite partition .
A no of uniti-te ions is with developments correspoudellcc .
In S 3 I investigate a ' correspondence between tions of tite numbers and certain ularised partitions of bipartite numbers .
The method is application , and indicates a one-to-one espondcnce bveen the of -partite numbers and certain ised pions of -partite numbers .
In S 4 I take up the question of the graphical representation of .ompletely regularised multipartito numbers .
I follow from two to three dimensions .
Whereas Sylvester employed nodes in a -dimeusional corner , 1 employ nodes piled up in a three-dimensional corner .
Sylvester obtains a two-fold correspondence from permutations of his axes .
I obtain a six-fold correspondence from the mutations of the three axes ven Sylvester 's two-dimensional graphs rmit of six iltorprebations when viewed from the three-dimensional standpoint .
I strive to detel.mine the number of graphs aining to a uumber of , the numbers of nodes three axes being stricted in any given manner .
There is no difficulty in forming a enerating .
function the enumeration , and it has been a principal object to obtain condensed or reduced generating functions .
It was not difficult to coniecture that if the graphs have not more than two layers of nodes ( i.e. , not more than two nodes along the axis of , taken to be perpendicular to bhe plane of the paper ) , but be otherwise icted , the reduced ating function is\mdash ; inf .
to establish this happily led me to send the corresponding olude generating function to Professor Forsyth .
He furnished am ingenious soIution , which is on the point of appearing in the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society .
' Subsequent to this I obtained a proof , of quite a different character and without reference to the crude form , of the same theorem which will be found in this section .
Conjecturally , the G.F. , when the ; are restricted in number to 3 , 4 , \amp ; c. , are\mdash ; inf .
} inf \amp ; c. , and when the graphs are quite unrestricted\mdash ; .
ad inf .
Finally , a conjecture is made as to the form when the graphs are restrioted in all these dimensions .
These conjectures are slowly being transformed into truths , and I trust to present them as such to the Royal Society as Part 2 of this memoir .
IV .
' On some Physical Properties of Argon and Helium By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received January 16 , 1896 .
Density of Argon .
In our original paper* are described determinations by Prof. Ramsay , of the density of argon prepared with the aid of nesium .
The volume actually weighed was 163 , and the adopted mean result was , referred to .
At that time a satisfactory conclusion as to the density of argon prepared by the oxygen * Rayleigh and Ramsay , ' Phil. Trans vol. 186 , , pp. 221 , 238 , 1895 .

