]\gt ; 28 Dr. T. R. Robinson on the Determination of [ Apr. 4 , the morphological representative of the mid gut , and that the liver really arises as a from it .
Four varieties of embryos , taken from animals answering the description of C. oestroides , are described ; but as it was ound impossible to make out any differences in the adults , the question whether these varieties represent distinct species or polymorphic forms is left undecided .
II .
" " On the Determination of the Constants of the Cup Anemometer by xperiments with a Whirling Machine By the Rev. T. B. ROBINSON , D.D. , F.B.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 14 , 1878 .
In his description of the cup anemometer ( Transactions Royal Irish Academy , Vol. XXII ) , Dr. Robinson inferred from experiments on a very limited scale with Robins ' whirling machine , that the llltimat } ratio of tho wind 's velocity to that of the centre of the cups .
Some recent experiments by M. Dohrandt show that this number is 100 great ; but as some of the details appeared objectionable , and as bhey did not include all the necessary data for determimng the constants , the author was desirous of repeating them .
He was enabled to do tl is a liberal grant from the Royal Socicty , and the results are iven in this paper .
After describing the apparatus and the locality in which it was estalished , he proceeds to explain the conditions of an anemometer 's action .
Considering only two opposite cups , and supposing them in motion , pressure on the concave surface is as that surface and the square of the resultant of the wind 's velocity and , that of the anemometer , and as , the pressure of an unit on the cup normal to the arm .
This is opposed , 1 .
By the pressure of a similar resultant on the convex surfaces , and ' , another coefficient , also normal to the arm , but quito different from ' ; 2 .
By various resistances dopending on ; and .
By the friction of the machine estimated at the centres of the cups .
and are functions of , and , the which the wind makes with the arm , but it is impossible to determine them a in the present sfate of hydrodynamics .
It is , however , ious that if be constant , the mean values of one revolution will soon also become constftnt , and as the mean impelling and resisting forees ance each other , the condition of nent motion is exessed by an equation of the form ; or ( I ) , which , if the antS arc known , gives 1878 .
] the Constcmts of Cup Anemometer .
V in terms of and F. Conversely , if we have a sufficient number of values of and F , we can determine , and tely , there is much difficulty in obtaining some of theso values .
We cannot produce wind of known velocity , and must substitute for it the translation of the anemometer through the air with a known speed .
* The most convenient mode of doing this which occurred to him was the attaching the anemometer to a whirling machille .
In case , however , the rotation of the apparatus causes air-vortex , whose motion must be subtracted from of arm give what is assumed as the effective .
The means by which this current was measured are described ; they show that it is exceedingly irregular , and that it is accompanied by a radial rent still more disorderly .
We get with sufficient accuracy , but it is otherwise with F. Of this there are four kinds acting in these experiments .
1 .
due to the weight of the parts of the anemometer ; 2 .
Thnt caused by the action of a brake , intended to diminish in respect of That produced by the lateral pressure of its axle on its supports , produced by the wind , \amp ; c. ; and , 4 .
due to the centrifugal force arlslng from the clrcular track of the anemometer 's centre , which in the actual arrangement ssed the axle outwards .
The modes of measuring these are described ; but this part of the work from satisfactory .
The ground where the appnratus established was affected by tremors from the action of machinery , which made all these frictiollS variable ; and as he had the use of it for a vely limited time , it was impossible to repeat the work with the precautions taught by experience .
The constant was determined by a strong clock-spring with an arm of the anemometer and that of the whirlinochinc .
When the whirl was rotated the anemometer tended the till ifs elastic force eqnalled the air 's pressure on the cups .
Then a friction was applied beyond the power of the sprino kept the anemometer in its place ; was determined , and given by a graduated fixed on the axle .
Then These measures showed that equation ( I ) contained no notable term * In 1845 il occurred to Dr. Robinson to an fnnemometer on } , for which full opportunity as offcrod by a valued icnd , .
] of the Dublin and Kingstown Railway .
Hc gave it up after the disturbing influenccb and the precautio that required .
] spnce to be vcrsed sold ] no cllr}cs ; should be nclosed ; ] lould 1 ) bc very long ; and ) end of it an anemometer should bc ] to kcep record of any wind .
expcrlmental instrument should be or 30 fact the , so to be clear of the air which it drives foro it , should be by a platform so fornled as to little resistance , tlnd 10 or 12 feet ave it .
Dr. .
R. Robinson on the Determination of [ Apr. of except the square ; secondly , that with cups of a given size is not changed by varying the arms from 24 to 12 ; and , thirdly , that is as the area of the cups .
ve instruments were used .
No. I , cups 9 inches , arms 24 , like Kew ones ; No. II , cups4 inches , arms 24 ; No. III , cnps 9 inches , arms ; No. , cups 4 inches , arms 12 ; No. , cups semi-cylinders , 9 inches by 9 .
The results with these are given in tables which show along with , and the vortex current , the frictions 1 , 2 , and 4 , the air 's density , and .
This last is seen to differ in each anemometer , and to be variable in each , ranging from to .
It increases with F and decreases as increases in such a manner as shows that it will remain finite even when is -infinite . .
( I ) in the form , or ( II ) and treating those for each instrument by minimum squares , he got values for , and , which , however , were unsatisfactory .
Dividing the40 belonging to No. III into three groups , in the first of are all whose , in the second those from 5 to 9 , the third those , each gave discordant values for the constants .
Those of least so , those of most ; the latter , indeed , rambled so much that no reliance could be placed on them .
The matter was not mended by combining the .
this cordancy might ariss from ( I ) containing a term , he tried this , but with a resuIt so mach worse that such a term , if it exist , can have no sensible infiuence .
The results for the other instruments were similar .
In fact , the method of lninimum squares applies very fectly to a case like this , where the coefficients of the unknown quantities and the absolute terms are themselves affected with errors .
Besides this , in the final equations of this process the coefficients of and are so much less than those of that they , especially , must be less accurately determined .
It is also to be noted that these constants may be changed within certain limits , and still satisfy the equations approximately .
It was , however , gested to him by Professor Stokes that , as .
( II ) has only two variables , and , i could be plotted on a plane surface , and this gave valuable information .
The for the { ive instruments are given , and show distinctly both the generRl of ( I ) with the observations and the cause of the discordarlces .
Though in all dots are much scattered , yet through a large portion of each the general direction is a right line with ( in some cases ) a barely perceptible downward curvature .
Since the curvature is nearly as this last must be very small , and ssuming i , the equation will be sufficiently accnrate .
Towards the of the curves where v is small the 1878 .
] the Constants of the Cup Anemometer .
dots are so straggling that nothing can be made of them .
In No. II , and still more in No. , they show that the frictions co1lsiderably astray .
Guided by these indications , and assuming for nin -tenths of his measures of that constant , he deduced for Nos. I and values of and so nearly equal as to make it probable that their meaItS would satisfy both .
This would give The positive root of ( I ) gives .
( III ) .
Computing from this , we find .-calc .
, of }which tables are given for the five anemometers .
As might be expected from the plottings , they are not very close , but show no systematic deviation from the law denoted by ( I ) .
So it may be assumed exact for all practical purposes through a range of from 5 to 42 miles , and of from 113 to 3277 grains .
For .
III the probable errol .
In both the errors are less on the hypothesis .
In No. II these mean constants fail , but others deduced for it represent the series , though nob so well as in the ; here also is not inferior .
In No. the frictions seem to have been deranged so much that the entire series cannot be lvell represented by any constants .
Circumstances detailed in the paper account for .
No. , cylinder cups , is the best of all .
If , as seems probable , and are the same for all hemispherical anemometers , the difference between their ations will depend solely on ' and using the values given above , the value of , instead of S. if these experiments were repeated Dr. Robinson 's present experience , and in an undisturbed locality , better results might be obtained , yet the errors of ] vortex curl'ent would still cause uncertainty ; and he intends to try anothel plan .
The anemometer No. I , with its duly altcred , is erected on the roof of the dwelling-house 22 feet from the Kew one also there , to which it is exactly similar .
Denoting the tter as standard one ) , the other , , is to be loaded with a brake friction , will make its less than that of this has gone on to ensure that an equal amount of wind has passed each instl.umeut , larger brake friction is applied to E. We shall thus ve cquations ( 1 ) , but four unknown quantities , vever , certainly known nearly by the measures already made .
fiJso can now be measured with far greater precision .
rrhe chief difliculty to be feared is the unsteadiness of the wind during each meant ; but as the time of each revolution of the two anemometers is recorded on raph , it will be possible to this clement of doubt by those times have givcn ratio .

