28 Report of the Joint Solar Eclipse Committee .
[ June 8 , June 8 , 1893 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
Professor William Burnside , Professor Wyndham R. Dunstan , Mr. William Ellis , Professor J. Cossar Ewart , Dr. Ernest William Hobson , Sir Henry Hoyle Howorth , Mr. Edwin Tulley Newton , Dr. Charles Scott Sherrington , Mr. John Isaac Thornycroft , Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace , and Professor Sydney Young were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Pursuant to the notice given at the last meeting of the Society , the President proposed and the Senior Secretary seconded H.R.H. the Duke of York for election and immediate ballot .
The ballot having been taken , His Royal Highness was declared duly elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Report of the Joint Solar Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society , the Royal Astronomical Society , and the Solar Physics Committee on the Observations of the Solar Eclipse of April 16 , 1893 .
" By A. A. Common , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1893 .
The Joint Committee have requested me to make the following brief report on the observations of the Eclipse .
This will be followed shortly by a more complete report .
The Joint Committee was formed early in 1892 , a grant of money was obtained from the Government Grant Fund of the Royal Society , and preparations were at once begun .
After due consideration , it was decided to send out two observing expeditions , one to Fundium , on the Salum River , in Senegambia , and one to Para-Curu , in the Province of Ceara , in the northern part of Brazil .
With the exception of the work undertaken by Professor Thorpe , the whole of the observations were photographic .
Three classes of work were undertaken at each station .
1st .
Photographs of the corona , in continuation of a long and very complete series already taken with the " Abney " lens , and similar 1893 .
] Report of the Joint Solar Eclipse Committee .
photographs , on three times the scale , by means of a negative enlarging lens by Dallmeyer .
2nd .
Photographs of the surroundings of the Sun by means of a prism in front of the object glass ( prismatic camera ) .
3rd .
Photographs of the spectrum of the corona by slit spectroscopes .
The West African Expedition was placed in charge of Professor Thorpe , F.R.S. Professor Thorpe , assisted by Mr. Gray and Mr. Forbes , undertook the determination of the photometric intensity of the coronal light on the method he used at the Solar Eclipse of 1886 , at Granada .
A complete and satisfactory number of observations were made .
Mr. A. Fowler undertook the prismatic camera observations , using a 6-in .
telescope , lent by Mr. Lockyer , with a large prism in front of the object glass .
Mr. Fowler took six plates before and after totality , and fifteen during totality .
The photographs are considered by Mr. Lockyer , at whose wish this investigation was made , to be of very great value .
Sergeant Kearney , R.E. , had charge of the coronagraph .
With the Abney and Dallmeyer lenses and a double camera , eleven pictures of the corona were secured , and these are of a most satisfactory character .
Captain E. S. Hills , R.E. , undertook the slit spectroscopes , and obtained two excellent photographs .
Mr. A. Taylor and Mr. Shackleton formed the expedition to Brazil .
The coronagraph was placed in the charge of Mr. Taylor , as well as the slit spectroscopes , to be used if the necessary local help could be obtained .
Twelve photographs of the solar corona were obtained , of a similar character to those obtained in Africa , and directly comparable with them as regards exposure , density , and detail of the coronal structure .
Most of these coronal plates have Captain Abney 's density squares impressed on them for determining the density of the photographic image .
Two photographs with the slit spectroscopes were obtained .
Mr. Shackleton , with an arrangement somewhat similar to that employed by Mr. Fowler , took a large number of photographs ; these are only less valuable than the African photographs in that the instrument employed was on a smaller scale .
The air at Fundium was hazy .
At Para-Curu the observations were made under peculiarly fortunate circumstances , as the Sun was clear of clouds only for a short time about the time of the Eclipse .
Generally speaking , the results obtained are of a most satisfactory character .
The photographs taken at each station provide a large amount of material to work upon , particularly those by the prismatic camera .
From the distance apart of the two stations and the dupli- 30 Dr. and Mrs. Huggins .
On Bright [ June 8 , cation of the work , a comparison may throw some light on the question of change of form and nature of the surroundings of the Sun during the interval between the observations .
In this respect we may have the photographs taken in Chili to further extend this time interval .
The various members of the expeditions have enjoyed good health , and no one seems to have suffered injury from the excessive heat .
The Committee are under great obligations for much assistance given to the expeditions .
The work of observation in Africa was made on French territory .
The French Government did everything possible in granting a choice of sites , and M. Victor Aliys , the French Administrator at Fundium , gave most valuable help .
The Admiralty have given us a gunboat to take the party up the Salum River and attend on them during the time this work lasted , and a cruiser brought the party from Bathurst to Grand Canary .
The value of the help afforded by the Admiralty can be appreciated when it is known that without it this expedition could not have been sent .
From many other quarters most valuable aid has been received , and will be more fully acknowledged in the General Report .
II .
" On the Bright Bands in the present Spectrum of Nova Aurigse .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received May 29 , 1893 .
Some few prefatory words are called for in explanation of the partial incompleteness of the present communication .
A considerable brightening , from below the 14th magnitude to above the 10th magnitude , wTas found to have taken place in the Nova when it was re-observed in the early part of August , 1892 , and to be accompanied by a modification of its spectrum , apparently analogous to a similar change in the spectrum of Nova Cygni in 1877 , since the observations we made of the star on March 24 , 1892 , when it had fallen to nearly the 11th magnitude* In consequence , however , of the removal of the eye-end of the telescope to the workshops of Messrs. Troughton and Simms for the attachment to it of the mounting for a fine Rowland grating by Mr. Brashear , we were without the means of observing the star and its spectrum during the whole of the autumn and the early winter .
It was not until the beginning of the year that the new spectroscope was mounted in our observatory , and then , from some instrumental causes of delay and from a prevalence of bad weather , we were * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 51 , p. 492 .

