60 Drs. J. P , Kuenen and W. W. Randall .
[ Nov. 28 , November 28 , 1895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Sir Joseph Lister , Bart. , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. Treasurer.\#151 ; Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , fProfessor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. Secretaries.\#151 ; j The Lord Uajleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Edward Frankland , D.C.L. , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; William Crookes , F.C.S. ; Sir Joseph Fayrer , K.C.S.I. ; Lazarus Fletcher , M.A. ; Walter Holbrook Haskell , M.D. ; William Huggins , D.C.L. ; The Lord Kelvin , D.C.L. ; Professor Alexander B. W. Kennedy , LL. D. ; Professor Horace Lamb , M.A. ; Professor Edwin Ray Lankester , M.A. ; Professor Charles Lapworth , LL. D. ; Major Percy Alexander MacMahon , R.A. ; Professor John Henry Poynting , D.Sc .
; Professor Arthur William .
Rucker , M.A. ; Osbert Salvin , M.A. ; Professor Harry Marshall Ward , D.Sc .
; Admiral William James Lloyd Wharton , C.B. The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. The Expansion of Argon and of Helium as compared with that of'Air and Hydrogen .
" By J. P. Kuenen , Ph. D. , Professor of Physics in University College , Dundee , and W. W. Randall , Ph. D. , Lecturer in Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , U.S.A. Communicated by Professor RAMSAY , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1895 .
Accurate comparisons of temperatures , as read with the aid of thermometers filled with different gases , have not often been made .
The history of the subject may be said to have begun with the classical researches of Regnault.* Of recent work of this kind , that # * Relation des Experiences , ' \amp ; c. , 1847-82 .
1895 .
] The Expansion of Argon and of Helium .
61 of Chappuis* was performed entirely at temperatures below 100 ' , the gases employed being hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbon dioxide .
The experiments of Grunmach and Pernetf were also conducted at temperatures below 100 ' .
Crafts^ has compared the readings of a number of mercury thermometers with those obtained by Regnault and by himself with a hydrogen thermometer .
Wiebe and BottcherS have determined the boiling points of a number of liquids in terms of the expansion of air .
In connexion with the work on argon and helium in progress at University College , it was suggested by Professor Ramsay that a comparison should be made between the readings shown by thermometers containing respectively argon , helium , hydrogen , and air .
The temperatures used w'ere : the melting point of ice and the boiling points of water , chlorbenzene , aniline , quinoline , and bromnaph--thalene respectively .
The gas to be experimented upon was contained in a bulb about 12 cm .
long and 22 cm .
wide , sealed at one end to a fine capillary tube about 12 cm .
long ; this , in turn , was connected with a piece of thick-walled glass tubing , having an inside diameter \#166 ; of about 0*2 cm .
The wider tube was fitted with a stopcock , for convenience in filling the bulb , and at its lower end was connected with a stout rubber tube , which led to a movable mercury reservoir .
Near the point at which the fine capillary tube was sealed to the wider tube , a mark was made on the latter : the mercury was always brought up to this mark in the experiments , and the difference of level in the tube and in the mercury reservoir was read oh , with the aid of a telescope , from a glass scale graduated in millimetres , which stood directly behind the apparatus .
The bulb of the gas thermometer was heated in one of Ramsay and Young 's vapour jackets , the mark on the stem being just below the *cork closing the bottom of the jacket : consequently a small portion of the stem was not heated to the temperature of the vapour in the jacket .
The error thus introduced was taken into account .
iNo part of the mercury column which compressed the gas in the bulb was heated more than a few degrees above the temperature of the room , screens being employed to cut off radiation : the temperature of the mercury was , howover , always determined as accurately as circumstances would permit , and the readings reduced to 0 ' .
In order to protect the thermometer bulb from the effects of radiation , the jacket was shielded by an outer cylinder of thick pasteboard , with an air \#171 ; pace between .
* ' Archives de G-eneve \#163 ; 3 ] , vol. 20 , pp. 5\#151 ; 36,153\#151 ; 179 , 248 262 ; also Traites .et Memoires du Bureau International , ' vol. 6 .
t ' Metronomische Beitrage , ' No. 3 .
X ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 95 , pp. 836\#151 ; 839 .
.S 'Zeitschrift fur Instrumentenkunde , ' vol. 10 , pp. 16 and 233 .
62 Drs. J. P. Kuenen and W. W. Randall .
[ Nov. 28 , Since the mercury was always brought to the sanfe point on the stem of the thermometer bulb , the volume of the gas , except for the change produced by the expansion of the glass , was in all the experiments the same , while the pressure was , of course , different for each temperature employed .
For convenience , the bulb was filled , in the case of each gas , at from two-thirds to three-fourths atmospheric pressure : under these circumstances , the bulb was never subjected to an internal pressure greater than about If atm os .
Corrections.\#151 ; All pressures were reduced to 0 ' .
The coefficient of expansion of the glass of the bulb was carefully determined , and was found to be 000002804 ; its effect was allowed for .
The effect of capillarity in depressing the mercury in the narrow tube was determined and taken into account .
The volume of that part of the stem of the bulb which was not in the ice or vapour , as the case might be , was found to be 0*0003 of the whole , and was allowed for in the calculations .
The change of volume in the bulb due to change of pressure was found to be negligable .
Gases.\#151 ; The first gas experimented with was hydrogen .
This was prepared from pure zinc , was washed with potassium permanganate solution and then with strong sulphuric acid , and was dried with phosphoric anhydride before it entered the previously exhausted bulb .
The thermometer was successively filled and exhausted several times , in order to remove impurities , and was heated while vacuous to dislodge any gas clinging to the surface of the glass .
Finally , the purified hydrogen was allowed to enter slowly until the required pressure wras obtained .
Two sets of experiments were made with air .
In the first set no effort was made to remove carbon dioxide , although the air was of course carefully dried .
The readings were made by one of us alone , and , on account of the numerous details to be attended to which actually require the attention of two observers to be put beyond question , are probably not as accurate as the other series .
The second series had to be brought to a close after the pressures corresponding to 0 ' and the boiling points of water and quinoline had been determined .
In this series care was taken to use air free from carbon dioxide .
The helium used was some of that prepared and purified by Professor Ramsay .
Its density was 2*13 , that of oxygen being taken as 16 .
The argon employed was prepared from atmospheric air by the method of Professor Ramsay .
A large gas-holder was filled with air which had been slowly drawn through a long combustion tube filled with red-hot copper .
This gas was dried , passed again over the hot copper , and then over red-hot magnesium shavings until absorption of nitrogen ceased .
By these processes a gas was obtained consisting of about equal volumes of argon and nitrogen .
Passage of this gas The Expansion of Argon and of Helium .
1895 .
] backwards and forwards through tubes containing respectively red hot magnesium , red-hot copper oxide ( to remove the hydrogen given off by the magnesium on heating ) , soda lime , and phosphoric anhydride , failed to remove the nitrogen completely .
Finally , with the aid of a circulating appai-atus , * which ensured the passage of all the gas over the hot magnesium , a product was obtained whose density was found to be 19-99 , oxygen being 16 .
The thermometer was filled with this gas .
After the pressures exerted by the argon when the bulb was surrounded by melting ice and by the vapours of water , chlorbenzene , and aniline , successively , had been determined , the thermometer was heated in the vapour of quinoline , when , for some unknown reason , it cracked .
A new bulb , of the same glass and as nearly as possible of the same size , was prepared , cleaned , and filled with argon , and a second series of readings made .
Finally , the argon was replaced by air , and the second series of readings for air , referred to above , begun .
On account of the closing of the laboratory for the summer , this series was not carried as far as would have been desirable .
Temperatures.\#151 ; The temperature of the jacket , when filled with steam from water boiling smoothly under atmospheric pressure , was taken from Kohlrausch 's " Physical Measurements .
" The samples of the boiling liquids used were re-distilled , and were found to pass over without a rise in temperature of more than a tenth of a degree , in three cases ; of a fifth of a degree in the fourth case .
Kind of thermometer .
Cor- rected pressure .
0 ' .
In steam at about n \amp ; r''th'\#163 ; n ?
of tempera- .
ture .
t .
, .
sion at em^ constant accu- i , n volume , rately Q_100{ calcu- | lated .
j Temperatures calculated .
Chlor- benzene .
Aniline .
Quino- line .
Brom- naplitlia- len .
1 .
Hydrogen 2 .
Air I. . . .
3 .
Helium . .
: 4 .
Argon I. .
' 5 .
Argon II . !
6 .
Air II. . .
567 -02 517 -02 529 -54 511 -68 712-56 \#151 ; 737-74 \#151 ; 775-18 0-003665 706-06 0-003668 698-79 0-003663 131 *6 131-8 132 -2 132 -15 183-9 183- 6 184- 1 184-1 236 -35 [ 234 -9 ] 236-9 237*8 237 -1 281-65 [ 278 -3 ] 281 -5 Air ( Wiebe ) j Temperature I ( R. and Y. ) \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-003670 132 1 184 *3 184*4 235 -9 237 -4 280*4 See Rayleigh and Ramsay , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1895 , A , p. 212 .
-64 Drs. J. P. Kuenen and W. W. Randall .
[ Nov. 28 , The results of our observations are laid down in the table .
In three cases ( 3 , 4 , and 6 ) the reading was taken at 0 ' , as well as at the boiling-point of water ; this enabled us to calculate the coefficient of expansion between these two points .
The result is shown in the .fourth column .
The higher temperatures determined with these thermometers have been derived from the observed pressures by using the coefficients thus measured .
As the barometric pressures differed , more or less , from the normal value , the boiling-points had to be reduced to normal pressure , for which operation we made use of the differences in Ramsay and Young 's well-known tables.* In calculating the temperatures of air thermometer I , where the reading ; -at 0 ' had been omitted , and of argon thermometer II , where we did not take the reading in steam , we used the coefficients found with air thermometer II and argon thermometer I , respectively , in the first .case'basing our calculations on the reading in steam .
With the hydrogen thermometer , where the reading at 0 ' had not been taken , we accepted 0'0*03663 as the coefficient of that gas , and based our .calculations of the temperatures again on the reading in steam .
Since the readings of the mercury surfaces , with the gas thermometer as well as the barometer , were taken on a millimeter scale , an occasional mistake in the final pressure of 0T or 0-2 mm. is by no means excluded .
Uncertainties of that amount do not , how'ever , account for the differences between the results obtained with the .different thermometers .
The readings of air thermometer I are , perhaps , somewhat less to be relied upon than the others , because they had to be observed , as was stated above , by one of us in the absence of the other .
The boiling-point of bromnaphthalene , as determined with the helium thermometer , is also very uncertain , because the position of the mercury was not at all stable , probably on account of the difficulty of obtaining rapid and smooth boiling of the liquid .
Yet , even if these values are not taken into account , the differences are very remarkable , especially with quinoline , and the agreement with Wiebe 's result is also not quite satisfactory .
Part of these differences may be due to impurity in the liquids used in the jacket .
Pains were taken at the beginning of our experiments to have them quite pure , but as the values show , apparently , a tendency to rise , it may be that continuous boiling produced slight decomposition .
In the case of bromnaphthalene this is more than possible .
If more time had been at our disposal , we should have tested the purity .of our substances during the operations .
As it is now , it would be unwise to draw conclusions from our figures about the exact behaviour of any of the gases used at high temperatures .
The coefficients of expansion between 0 ' and 100 ' found for argon and helium agree .very well with the values usually found for gases , and there is no * ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 47 , p. 640 ; vol. 55 , p. 483 .
1895 .
] The Expansion of Argon and of Helium .
indication of anything extraordinary happening to these gases at high temperatures .
When argon thermometer I was heated in the vapour of quinoline a remarkable expansion of the gas was observed , continuing for two hours until a maximum value was reached ; this gave an apparent temperature of 243'5 ' for the boiling point of quinoline .
On cooling the thermometer , however , it was found to be cracked , and some drops of quinoline were noticed inside the bulb .
The measurements made in this case were therefore rejected , and a new series was begun with argon thermometer II , which gave a value about normal .
How the quinoline could have found its way into the bulb while an interior pressure of about 970 mm. existed within it , without the argon escaping " rapidly at the same time , is not quite clear .
It may be the vapour passed through the crack when the temperature was rather low , and that the opening was closed by the later expansion of the glass .
For completeness ' sake , we give in the table the boiling-points of the same substances determined with , a mercury thermometer , as calculated from Ramsay and Young 's tables .
But the irregularities of the thermometers prevent our giving any definite numbers for the reduction of those tables to accord with any of the gas thermometer scales .
A direct comparison , such as was executed by Wiebe and Bottcher with a mercury thermometer of known constitution , like the Jena glass thermometer , would have been desirable .
Differences of boiling-point resulting from impurities would have affected both thermometers in the same way , and would have enabled us to ascertain how much of the differences found resulted from that source of error .
But here also want of time prevented our extending our programme beyond the limits fixed beforehand .
Notwithstanding the incompleteness and want of perfection of our work , we do not hesitate to publish our results : the difficulties to be overcome in experiments of this kind are serious , and we did not make it our object to obtain results of remarkable accuracy .
The real motive of the work was to discover whether argon and helium show extraordinary behaviour at high temperatures , or not\#151 ; and our l'esults apparently establish the fact that they do not .
Their behaviour , so far as expansion is concerned and within the limits of temperature which we used , is apparently the same as that of so-called perfect gases or mixtures of them .
Finally , it is a great pleasure to record our hearty appreciation of the kindly assistance of Professor Ramsay , at whose suggestion , and under whose supervision , these experiments have been conducted .
vot .
LIX .
F

