A paper was read , entitled , " Narrative of the Proceedings of Com ?
mander Thomas Dickinson , of His Majesty 's SIoop Lightning , while employed in the Enterprise for the Recovery of the Public Stores and other property sunk in His Majesty 's late Frigate Thetis , on the southwest side of the Island of Cape Frio .
" By Commander Thomas Dickinson , R.N. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , and J. G. Children , Esq. , Secretaries to the Royal Society .
It was preceded by the reading of a letter from the author to the Secretary , explaining the reasons which induced him to lay this narrative before the Royal Society , and place on the records of its proceedings the infor ?
mation it contains relative to the commencement of an enterprise , wholly planned and undertaken by himself , and which , under his superintendence , was , by the great , persevering and meritorious ex ?
ertions of his officers and crew , most successfully accomplished .
The narrative commences with the statement of the consternation produced at Rio de Janeiro on the receipt of the intelligence of the loss of the Thetis , with a freight of about 810,000 dollars , on the south-west side of the island of Cape Frio , and of the determination of the author , on finding that no one seemed disposed to take any step towards the recovery of the property thus lost , to make the at ?
tempt himself , if he could obtain from the Commandcr-in-chief at that station , Rear-Admiral Thomas Baker , C.B. , orders to that effect .
He accordingly exerted himself to obtain every possible information rela ?
tive to the nature of the coast , depth of water , and other circumstances , which might enable him to judge of the practicability of the undertaking , and of the means necessary for its successful accomplishment ; and became convinced that the difficulties and obstacles to be encountered , although numerous and formidable , might be overcome by the employment of the means which suggested themselves to him as practicable on this occasion , if sufficient assistance were afforded him in putting them into execution .
He accordingly had models of the proposed machinery made , and submicted them , together with his plans , to the Commander-in-chief , by whom they were approved .
He experienced great difficulties in procuring asuitable diving-bell , for it was impossible to obtain any instrument of the kind at Rio de Janeiro , or even any facilities for the construction of one by casting .
It at length occurred to him that a ship 's iron water-tank might be con ?
verted to this use ; and being supplied with one from the YVarspite , he was enabled to render it available for that purpose .
The next diffi ?
culty was to procure an air-pump , which , after much delay , owing to the tardiness of the native work men in that country , was at length constructed .
The want of air-hoses , however , was a still more for ?
midable obstacle to the success of the plan ; but the ingenious contrivances of the author for rendering the common pump hoses airtight , supplied this deficiency ; and on a trial which he made with the whole apparatus on the 22nd of January , 1831 , it was found to an ?
swer completely .
The next day he received his orders from the Com ?
mander-in-chief , and , sailing on the following day , arrived at the har ?
bour of Cape Frio on the 30th , and immediately proceeded to inspect the coast , and ascertain the situation of the wreck , not a vestige of which was visible .
An account is then given of the local circumstances of the Thetis Cove , or inlet , surrounded by almost perpendicular cliffs from 108 to 194 feet in height , with a depth of water varying from 3^ to 24 fathoms , and the bottom being strewed with huge perpen ?
dicular rocks , occasioning these inequalities .
These surveys showed that the execution of the plan originally conceived by the author was opposed by so many unforeseen difficulties , that he was obliged to relinquish some parts of it , and resort to fresh expedients for surmounting them .
The idea of constructing a derrick then occurred to him ; but the materials were wanting , for no trees existed in the island ex ?
cept those in the forests in the interior , which were inaccessible from their distance and the heights on which they grew , and of which the wood was , from its quality , unsuitable to the purpose .
His only resource , therefore , was to make it of the fragments of spars saved from the wreck .
With great exertions , a circumstantial account of which is given in the paper , the work was at length accomplished ; and the result fully equalled the anticipations which had been formed of its utility in affording a stable point of support for the operations with the diving-bell .
Previously to the erection of a derrick , however , much had been done by working the diving-bell from a boat , and a considerable quantity of stores and treasure raised .
At one time the anxiety of the author to forward the undertaking , andavail himself of favourable weather , induced him to try the experiment of working by torchlight , which succeeded to a certain extent j but after a few trials the danger was found to be excessive , and the fatigue to the divers so great as to oblige him to desist .
After the derrick had been for some time in operation , a tremendous sea arose , the shock of which , for want of sufficient materials to support it , effected its destruction ; and a substitute was then resorted to by the setting up of a suspension cable diagonally from the cliffs , which , after great difficulties , was at length effected .
A great portion of the narrative is occupied with the details of the various proceedings , and of the serious impediments which were suc ?
cessively overcome by the zeal , perseverance and extraordinary exer ?
tions of the officers and crew , under the orders of Captain Dickinson , subjected as they were , for so long a period , to the greatest privations and hardships , arising from the laborious nature of the work , the unhealthiness of the climate , the attacks of thechigger , producingdistressing ulcers in the feet , the annoyance from drifting sand , which pene ?
trated into every place , the exposure to constant wet in huts which could not be made to exclude either wind or rain , and the perils arising from the boisterous gales and tremendous swell of the sea , which the whole ship 's company , but more particularly the men in the divingbell , had to encounter j forming a combination of difficulties which the author is convinced could have been surmounted by none but Bri ?
tish seamen .
After having succeeded so far in the undertaking , and made , at various times , shipments for England of treasure amounting to about three fourths of the whole which had been on board the Thetis when she sunk , orders were received by the author , on the Gth of March , to resign the charge of the enterprise to the Hon. Capt. De Roos , of His Majesty 's brig Algerine ; on the receipt of which he immediately ordered a survey to be taken of the stores , and on the 9th descended in the bell , surveyed the bottom of the Cove , ascertained the position of the remaining stores and a considerable quantity of treasure ; and after having communicated the whole of the results to Captain de Roos , instructed him , his officers and ship 's company in the way of working the bell , as well as in the different modes of removing rocks , recovering stores and treasure , and the use of the whole of the machinery , and furnished him with every necessary information for his guidance , he lent twenty of his men to the Algerine for their assistance , resigned the charge to his direction on the 10th , and sailed for Rio de Janeiro on the 13th .
Annexed to the paper is a journal of the amount of treasure of various descriptions recovered between the 31st of March , 1831 , and the 10th of March , 1832 , by His Majesty 's sloop Lightning .
There was then read an extract of the letter of instructions , bearing date the 10th of March , 1832 , from Commander Thomas Dickinson , then of His Majesty 's ship Lightning , to Commander the Hon. S. F. de Roos , then of His Majesty 's brig Algerine , on the former resigning to the latter the charge and direction of the enterprise for the recovery of the public stores and treasures sunk in His Majesty 's late frigate Thetis , off Cape Frio .

