]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF TILI E ROYAL SOCIETY .
SECTION TEBMA TICAL AND SCIE NCES .
\mdash ; \mdash ; The Kinxtic Theory of Simple and Composite JIonatomic Viscosity , duclion , and Diffusion .
By S. , D.Sc .
, Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity Canlbridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. ) ( Abstract .
* ) The mean-free-path phenomena of ases can be explained in a way by a very elementary form of the kinetic theory , but to dlo satisfactory mathematical treatment of them , yielding accurate numerical results , is less easy .
The difficulty varies to some extent with the nature of the molecular model chosen as .
It is curious that the adopLoion of particular model , viz. , a centre of force varying inversely the fifth of the distance , removes nearly all the analytical complications in the theor The first accurate treatment } viscosity , conduction , and lsion , Maxwell made possible by this fact , and it is remarkable that Maxwell ' theory requires ) knowledge of velocity-distribution function the state of the gas .
If the molecnles are of ( t1 ) * This abstract summarises two papers in the hiCal Tansactions , ' the received dealing with simple gases ( ' Phil. Tratls , vol. 216 , pp. 279-348 , 1915 ) , and the second ( received May 19 , 1916 ) with ] osite gases .
Tho two papers a1nplify and complete an earlier memoir ( ' Phil. Trans , vol. 211 , pp. 433 483 1911 , which contains a first ation to the present theo1y .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. Dr. S. Chapman .
The inetic Theory of there type , the function must be determined , a task wherein lies the ain ( lifflculty of the investigation .
It is , however , of more than mathematical to widen the basis of the theory , since Maxwell 's olecular model clocs not satisfactorily represent the molecules of ases .
The velocity-distribution function has been proved by mann to tisfy a certain integral equation , which Hilbert has shown to be to determine the iunction uniquely .
Loreutz solved an important enera form of this equation : while Pidduck* has obtained solutions of typical examples of the general case , and so deduced many interesting merical results to diffusion .
The present method , is not tsed on Boltzmann 's equation .
less direct , it seems to possess dvantages not shared by the other method , in that it yields results of complete formal enerality , which can be reduced to ical form with omparatively little arithmetical labour .
To comply with the pure mathematician , the results should be proved to be in conformity with Boltzmann 's equation .
Progress has already been made in this lirection , and has brought to light several theorems of much analytical i1lterest .
As the insertion of these would unsuitable in memoirs intended primarily to deal with questions of physics , they are eserved for a future OF MATIIE)[ATIOAL ]]TflOD .
( 1 ) Notation of of We consider a composed of a mixture of two sets of sy1lJmetri ; al molecules of masses in numbers per unit volunls The component densities , are consequently equal to .
The external force acting on each molecule ( and similarly for the molecules , with change of suffix throughout ) will be denoted by , or , vectorially , by , while the mean velocity of this group of lnolecules a will be denoted by or by .
The portions of either kind be denoted by , so that where evidently -k lesungen ube ] stheorie .
' vol. 1 , p. 114 ; Hilbet , 'Math .
Ann. ( 1912 ) ; Lorentz , 'Theory of Electrons , ' p. 268 ; Pidduck , 'Proc .
Lond. Math. Soc vol. 15 , p. 89 ( 1915 ) .
Also cf. Lunn , ' Bull .
Amer .
Iath .
Soc vol. 19 , ; , ' Phys. Zeit vol. 12 , p. 58 ( 1911 ) .
For convenience we shall suppose the heavier gas to be taken as that I.e. , at the point and at time Sirnple and Composite Monatomic suffix here , and throughout , refers t , o the composite as a whole .
Thus the mean mass , or external force per molecule , and the mean velocity of the gas as a whole , are given by equations of the type and so on .
Evidently , the total density , equal to , is also given by The suffix , together with a dash will relate to certain multiples of difference between the values of various data for the component gases .
we define by the equations , , By the equations , we obtain the expressions for original quantities , etc. , in of , and so It may readily be seen that the motion of can be analysed into a steady motion of the whole velocity together with a Dlotion of interdiffusion in which equal numbers second ) of the two roups of ulolecules are transported in opposite directions , the mean yelocities of the two eams b and .
The momentum of the common motion is , while the resultant momentum of the motion of ( due to the difference of molecular lnass ) is ; it is easily seen that , with the above definitions , As regards the resolution of the forces into multiples of and the first terms , ?
on and on ?
, represent forces which will inlpart a common acceleration to each group of lnolecules we may ippose this to modify the common elociCy c ) .
The remaining courpouents of and , when summed up over the or molecules of the corresponding roup , afford equal and opposite total forces such interdiffusing groups of molecules as we consider in ) will exert and opposite forces on one another , and the forces acting on the ( rrouPs must be and opposite if the motion of interdiffusion is to be iutained , or modified without impartiug any common velocity to then ] .
As for , it is introdnced for the sake of symmetry : denoting , clearly Dr. S. Chapman .
The Kinetic of We next consider motions of individual molecules .
The velocity of a typical molecule will be denoted by , or , when referred to the co-ordinate axes , or when referred to axes moving with the velocity appropriate to the given values of , by or .
Thus , the second equation referring to the molecules The mean value of any function of the molecular velocities will be denoted by a bar )laced ave the expression for the function .
Hence , by definition , or far , has denoted a vector quantity , and the equations it have been vectorial : henceforward it will denote ) amplitude of vector , so that is essentially positive , and The mean energy of the motion " " peculiar\ldquo ; to each molecule is clearly 1 , pe molecule , and we write where is the universal -constant .
These equations define and , will be termed the " " temperaturcs\ldquo ; of the component ases , which are not necessarily equal , though all the departures of the from the uniform state will be supposed small .
The nean hydrostatic pressures of the component and composite ases , and also and ( the temperatur of the composite ) are defined by Clearly The six pressure components , for the compo ent and osiCc gases are si1nilarly defined , e.g. , We aJso define , by the equations Sirnple and Composite Gases .
Evidently is a measure of the difference between the temperatures of the component gases .
( 2 ) The Velocity-Distribvtion When the gas is uniform , so that are constant , while , are zero , the function distribution of the components of velocity the molecules / assumes xwell 's well known form : These cleally satisfy the necessary conditions For the velocity distribution function in the slightly disturbed state we shall vrite where is a function , of the first order of smallness , which irlS to be letermined .
( 3 ) of Let be any function of the velocity components , of a molecule ; then is the aggregate value of QI summed over all the molecules in unit volume .
The equation expressing the analysis of the rate change of is called the " " equation of transfer\ldquo ; of .
It may readily be shown to The rate of is here analysed into ( a ) the part due to encounters veen the molecules themselves or with the others , ( b ) the part due to the passage of molecules into or out of the volume considered , and ( 3 ) that caused by the action of external foroes .
By assigning to the values unity , , or , we may obtain the equations of continuity , momentum , or energy , for the composite gas , since in these three cases , by virtue of the conservation of mass , momentmn , and we may eliminate Three special functions are important in the present theory .
By means three equations just mentioned , and by the of all second-order .
Jeans ' ' Dynamical Theory of Gases , ' ( 2nd ed Dr. S. Chapman .
The Kinetic Theory of quantities , the corresponding equations of transfer may be reduced following form : The equations define , and there are , of course , ilar quantities and so on , which a fined in like manner : .
In each of the above equations of transfer , as written , a multiple of is equated to certain " " external ' or mean data of the .
The reduction to this form requires no knowledge of the small deviation from Maxwell 's distribution law of molecular velocities , , of the function , but such is necessary for the calculation of onversely , however , the above equations for throw light on the form of ; in fact , if we assume that can be expressed as a power series in , we may in this way*infer that it will have the following The function is obtainable by changing the suffix 1 into 2 hout .
We express the functions , etc. , in power series which are conveniently written as follows:\mdash ; * The details of the deduction will be found in the papers , where it is shown how depends on q ) .
Simple and Compositc ' ' The dash ' after the sign of summation in is to indicate that is to be omitted from the numerical factor of the first ternl .
factors are arbitrary and not really necessary , since the coefficients are unknown , but their insertion is analytically advantageous .
Similarly it is convenient to denote the coefficients in ) , etc. ( which expressions correspond to , etc. , the natural change of suffix ) ; it is then necessary to distinguish between and and so on , even when The factors A , in can ) chosen at will , after which coefficients , become definite ; these remain determined .
ertain relations between them , however , hold good , in irbne of the conditions which ( with the suffixes appended ) satisfy .
These are readily seen to yield the , .
, In the last equation , and are entirely independent hence , if we eliminate , we can } ) arately equate their co-factors to zero , in the equation .
In this way the tionS 1 be Dr. S. Chapman .
inetic Theory of which also define and ; consequently , also , ( 4 ) .
means of the above expression for it is ossible to culate , the operation ( a ( and elaborate one ) in the luation of an octuple integral the variables which are required to specify an encounter two molecules .
Small quantities than the first are ected , and the expression for always consists of a linear series of the coefficients thti l into , etc. ; the factor of each in these .
series depends on , and and involves the of molecular i1lteraction during ncounter .
It is found possible to erfectl expressions for these factors , no particuIar of interaction has to as , sumed .
ting the value , of , so calculated , in the bove equations of ansfer , may } ) arately equate the on the two sides which contain thus obtain a number of , each of which is linear in one set of the cicnts c , or the factors as above stated , , definitely known functions of , and is au infinite sequence of such quations for each of coefficients , one cquation Corresp u to each ) , which takes all from to .
If we solve in same way as for lineal equations in 1 ' unknowns , ) we arrive at tions typified the equation : the cient of in equation of sequence of equations for , and denotes the determinant whose element while denotes the same determinanli with the elements of .
all replaced ) unit These determinants infinite in directions , the in each of the equations whence they are derived , j ) from to , while thu equations of transfer for provide a second infinite sequence of equations corresponding to the of from ) ) .
If we are a simple gns , so that do not appeal the determinants reduce to the more ordinary quadrant of the plane .
Simple Composite Monatomic Gases .
These general formulae for the coefficients , complete the determination of the velocity distribution function .
The mean value of any function of , can hence be calcuJated in the form of a linear series of these coefficients .
It remains only to add that any such linear series in the , or can readily be transformed into the quotient of an appropriate determinant by [ espeotively .
P-tRT TO TIIE ATlI ( 1 ) By I ( 1 ) and 1 ( 2 ) , total qStlre components , are given the significanc of and and comparin , these equations equations of pressure of a whose coefficient of viscosity is .
with At is clear that the composite behaves like a viscous fluid , that .
From 1 ( 3 ) , the it } ) that Hence ( taking the right-hancl terms rder)iffusion is ) roduced by ( 1 ) concentration gradient , or ill the relative of constituent ases ; ( 2 ) by external forces unequally per unit mabS on the two sets of molecules , and by variations in ( 3 ) the totad pressure , temperature of the composite .
If we write theI1 Dr. S. Chapman .
The Theory of and we may call , and DT respectively the coefficients of diffusion , forced diffusion , pressure diffusion , and thermal .
The definition of agrees with that usually iven for the coefficient of diffusion .
The other coefficients seem to be defined here for the first time .
If , as we supposed , the molecules are , the four coeflicients of diffusion are .
Ifence , in the case of pressure the avier gas will tend towards the direction of in case of thermal diffusion , the heavier gas wiJl tend towards the direction of decreasing vidently both pressure and thermal diffusion will in eneral take place the passage of sound through a composite such as air , the effects presumably comparable with those of ' and conduction been investigated by Stokes , Kirchboff , and of The equation of energy is the equation of transfer of .
On the separate equations for the two -components , the equation of energy for the ] , correct to the first order , is found .
Here is the })ecific beat at constant volume , Joule 's mechanical equivalent of heat .
terms , it will appear , } on viscosity , difl'usion , conduction .
If we these small effects , the equation may be written or , by the equation continuity , , or , or Thi is the law of adial)atic expan sionl of a monatomic ected Sirnpte Composite terms hence give the necessary corrections to this law , are due to the causes indicated .
The left-hand side represents the net rate of increase of energy of molecular agitation , being the increase corresponding to the temperature after allowing for the change due to adiabatic alteration of volume .
This net rate is analysed as follows , taking the various terms in order:\mdash ; ( a ) Work is done on the molecules by the external forces , in the motion of interdiffusion relative to the resultant stream velocity ( b ) The variation in the proportions of the molecules and , due to diffusion , produces a flow of energy of stream-motion , since The viscous forces cause dissipation of , represented by the third on the -hand side .
( d ) The fourth term epresents the effect of conduction , together with a hitherto unrecognised term due to diffusion .
Supposing , for simplicity , that there is no mass motion , the equation of becomes on substituting the values of and and substituting for in of and .
If , further , there is no diffusion , it reduces to the eqnn C } of conduction of heat with therlnal conductivity , where It appears also that the motion of interdiffusion is accompanied by a of heat proportional to the velocity of diffusion , a process which we term the " " thermal flux of difl.usion.\ldquo ; In the absence of conduction , forces , and mass motion , the equation of is thus seen to be where is , and is called the " " specific energy of diffusion Dr. S. Chapmall .
The Kinetic of ( 4 ) Inequylity oj the artial T In I we found that so that the temperatures of the component ases are unequal by an amount proportional to the of change of the ratio of their densities .
We will write the equation in the form being termed the anisothermal constant of diffusion .
Since is found to be positive , the of ] relative density is the hotter .
PART III .
THE RESULTS 1N IOUS SECIAL CASES .
( 1 ) In The various results arrived at in .
Part II are complete and perfectly eneral .
To be of service to natural philosophy , however , we must consider their values for selected particular molecular models , and in order to obtain uunlerical results we must be prepared to make successive approximations to the accurate fornrulae .
Our usual procedure in this Abstl'act will be to state the eneral form of the first approximation , and to determine the correction to further approximations only for special types of molecule .
The types which will be dealt with are ( a ) point centres of force varying inversely the power of the mutual distance ; ( b ) rigid elastic spheres ; and ( c ) elastic spheres surrounded by a field of attractive force .
The following notation must first be explained , in order that the .of this section l1lay be understood .
, , Here is the angle which the relative velocity of two molecules , , is an encounter in which is the distance their initial or final lines of undisturbed rectilinear motion , and is the ma nitude of their inirial or final relative velocity ; is the endre function of , of yree k. If both molecules are of same kind , or , the function to is or .
In the next equation , is affected the same suffixes as the fu1lction under the Simple Composite onatomic ( integral sign ; and clearly depend upon the molecular model the various models differing in respect of the dependence of on and / ? .
Again , ; in the latter the suffixes 11 , 12 , or 22 , are to be added to correspond to suffixes of on the left .
( Partic If the molecules are elastic spheres of radii , it may readily be shown that In these formula , or , more ooenerally , , where but not .
is a positive denotes .
When the molecules are power centres of force , the force at unit distance , it may be shown that 5 where I , , are pure numbers , depending on only .
* When , so that the molecules are Maxwellian , we may note that for all values of When the molecules are rigid elastic spheres surrounded by a field of attractive force , the latter may be allowed for very approximately ) additional factor in , a in , and a factor in .
Here , which known as Sutherland 's constant , is given by * They are the same as the quantities thus denoted in Jeans ' 'Dynamical Theor .
of abes , ' 2nd ed. , SS305 , et seq. is Sutherland 's diffusion constant ; when the gas is simple , 's constant of viscosity ( generally written C ) is , or .
S. Chapman .
The Kinetic Theory of where is the potential of the force between two molecules hen in contact ; and are similarly defined , and appear in the numerators of the additional factors in and By putting , and changing the suffix 2 into 1 hout , formulae for a composite gas reduce to those appropriate to a simple gas .
shall first deal with the latter .
viscosity of a The genel.al first approximation to the coefficient of viscosity of lnple gas is .
( 0 ) .
This result iveu and discussed in an earlier memoir , so that only the correction introduced by further approximations need be considered here .
In the case of elastic spherical molecules , the correction factor is purely llumerical , as also in the case of centres of force .
Successive approximations to the factor in the former instance are found to be , so that times the above result may be takeu as exact well within per cent. For nth power centl.es of force , , the correction factor is found to have the values corresponding to the typical values 5 , 9 , 15 , 25 and inity for In the case of elastic .
molecules , the correction factor yaries very slightly with temperature .
Typical values , to the values , 1 , for , are respectively , and .
Thus , in all cases , the first tion is close to the exact value .
( 4 ) of plc A first approximation leads to the result given in the earlier memoir just cited .
As in the case of viscosity , the correction consists of a numerical factor to be applied to the above result ; this factor is very nearly unity , being for rigid eiastic spheres , and for power centres of force varying from for ) rough the values for , 15 , and 25 , for Similarly for spheres , as takes the values ] , , the factor is found to equal , and respectively .
The corrections to the first approximation are 'Phil .
Traua , ' , vol. 211 , pp. 433-483 , SS17 , 20 1911 ) .
and Convposite latomic G ardly within the present experimental powers of measurement , and the simple , agrees well with the observed values for argon , heliuln , and neon .
( 5 ) Coefficient of first approximation to is .
This result first obtained by evin , and subsequently , independently .
in the earlier .
by present author , already cited .
Like the first approximations also to , and , it is an exact formula in the case of Maxwellian molecules , and in no other .
Maxwell obtained this expression for in his special case , though without a rigorous proof ; his method applied to other cases ( as by the authors ) leads only to the above first approximation , the error of which is in some cases considerable .
We shall vrite the correction factor introduced on a second approximation in the form .
Before considering the value of we shall examine some particular cases of our formulae which throw light on the accuracy of second approximation AVhen the mass and size of the molecules are ible compared with ithose of , an exact solution for is obtainable , as Lorentz first showed .
The first approximations to the correction factor in this case , when the luolecules are elastic spheres , are found to be converging to the value or .
If the molecules are ?
power of force , the correction factor is equal to which , when is 5 , 9 , , 17 , , has the respective values .
These results agree with Lorentz 's theory , and show that in this case , at auy rate , the first approximation to is seriously in error .
The next simplest case of a general character with which we can deal is that in which the molecules are identical in dynamical properties , mass , size , force ) , as , for instance , in the diffusion of a ) into itself .
Hence we shall in this case write .
for .
The correction factor is found to depend only on the nature of the molecule ; its values for power centres of force , when equals 5 , 9 , 17 , or , are respective]y , 1004 , , or , and the last value also corresponds to spherical molecules .
These are only first approximations , but would not be altered by further approximations by more than or .
The complete formula for rigid spherical molecules is Dr. S. Chaplnan .
Theory of correction factor in this case had been previously calculated approxilnately by Pidduck , who obtained thus to three decimal only ) in place of as above .
For the same type of molecule , we also have may be compared with an approximate result obtained by Jeans , using the \ldquo ; method , viz. , .
For other types of molecule , is a different multiple of ( 6 ) , of of The above first approximation to , it may be noticed , depends only on , and not at on the ratio .
Meyer disputed the independence of on the ratio of mixture , and developed a theory predicting considerable of as was varied .
results ed a small variation of , but much less than 's formula .
This suspicion on both Maxwell 's and Meyer 's theories ; it now appears that the former was correct , but failed to represent the facts because of the unsuitability of the molecu ] model .
A Maxwellian gas is the only one for which is indepcndent of ) .
correction factor to the above ap proximate formula is in every other case a function of We shall consider only the approximation to the correction ctor ; this is very nearly exact .
find that here is obtainable from the suffixes 1 and 2 .
The behaviour of of is easily studied when the olecules are rigid elastic spheres .
In this case ( renlembering conventio1l ) it appears that exceeds ) , and that exceeds .
Further , if , lave b ; the of equality correspond to the case , as in self diffusion .
This indicates why does nof depend on .
In the general case , if above condition is fulfilled .
Simple Composite Monatomic Gases .
and ] steadily decrease , as the proportion of molecules is increased , while , if it is not fulfilled , and ( and consequently also first increases and then decreases , as increases from to 1 .
Clearly , ths more equal the molecular masses , the more equal also must be the molecular radii , in order that the above condition may be fulfilled .
ards the magnitude of the correction factor , it is greater the more unequal the diameters and masses of the molecules , a maximum of , or , when and are infinite .
This is for rigid spherical molecules : for other types the is less , to zero in the case of Maxwellian molecules .
In other cases the factor appears always to exceed unity .
The nitude of the variation in ordinary cases , and the comparison of experiment with theory , may be from the following Table* ; the theoretical values of are so calculated as to make their mean agree with the mean of the experimental values , so that the theory is concerned only with the variations the mean .
The molecules are assumed to be spheres , a less simple model might prove still better .
It may be added that has improved Meyer 's theory of by taking persistence of velocities into account , and has thus much reduced Meyer 's predicted variations with they still remain twice or thrice as great as the observed changes .
Dr. S. Chapman .
The Kinetic Theory of ( 7 ) The first tion to the coefficient of thermal diffusion is where and In the case of Maxwellian molecules vanishes ( as also every approximation to it , as here , since for such a gas ) ; like the variation of with , thermal diffusion is a phenomenon which wholly disappears in this alone out of all typical ases , so that model is far from suitable physically , whatever its mathematical Thermal diffusion depends essentially on a difference of mass and structure between the molecules if and , etc. , vanishes , as the above first approximation also esCs .
The more unequal the molecules , the reater is .
Considering elastic spherical molecules , if but is very large , reduces approximately to thus nearly ) .
When both and are very ( Lorentz 's case ) ' where first , second , and third approximations to the numerical factor give , converging to nearly\mdash ; this also illustrates the degree of correction introduced on further approximations after the first , although the error of the latter is at its maximum for this specially unequal molecular pair ; the above formula is , moreover , true only so long as is not too nearly equal to 1 , since vanishes with always .
If nearly , which may be compared with the former case when , as illustrating the effect of the inequality between the molecular diameters when is very Pressure diffusion likewise depeuds on the inequality of the molecules ( of their masses only , however ) .
Thus .
The following Table illustrates the relative magnitudes of , Dp and for a few typical -pairs ( rigid elastic spherical molecules being assumed ) Simple and Composite Monatomic Ratio of ixtur .
In this connection we may also remark on the steady state of a without diffusion , under the influence of ( a ) external forces or ( b ) of a permanently maintained non-uniform temperature distribution .
In ) former case the pressure will , of course , be non-uniform .
The equations of diffusion show that a permanently non-uniform composition will thus be set up , case on the ratio or , and in ( b ) on .
Both cases are exemplified in the upper strata of the atmosphere , above the region of convection , and in a future note the effect of temperature $ radiant on atmospheric constitution will be indicated in detail ; it is less , however , than the effect of the pressure .
The influence of nonmiform temperature on composition has been verified , the proportions of two gases , found to differ in two bulbs kept at different temperatures and an open connection veen them ; a preliminary account of these experiments will appear shortly .
The magnitude of the effect is easily indicated by an example ; if and helium , or oxygen and hydrogen , are the gases , mixed in yinally equal , and the hot bulb is kept at 10 C. and the cold at C. , the heavier gttS will concentrate slightly in the cold bulb , 52 per cent. of it to per cent. of the lighter gas , instead of the original 50 per cent. to 50 per cent. , and vice vjrs at the hot bulb .
( 8 ) Viscosity JIixed Gascs .
The formulae for and in mixed gases are very complicated .
A first approximation to agrees with that given in my first memoir , but the first approximation to was there given wrongly , since , in ib , it was assumed that conduction could take place in a uniform gas without diffusion , which we have just seen to be impossible .
The correct formula is given in the second memoir here abstracted , but will not be reproduced in this place .
( 9 ) Inequality of the Temperatures of the nponent Gases .
This phenomenon has been shown to depend on , or the time rate of variation of the relative proportions of the component gases .
The following Mr. G. H. Livens .
On the example will illustrate its order of nitude .
Consider a composed initially of equal numbers of molecules which are similar to one another in mass and other dynamical properties ( since the phenomenon does not , like thermal diffusion , depend on molecular differences , this assumption may imately be made , in order to obtain a simple numerical illustration ) .
We will suppose that the gas is at normal temperature and pressure , and that the olecules are similar in mass and size to oxygen molecules , from one another in some other respects .
Then if the proportions are changing at such a rate that at the end of one second there will be 51 per cent. of one component to 49 per cent. of the other , a temperature difference of about one thousand-millionth of a degree Centigrade will be set up , the hotter gas being that which is in , ratio .
Thus equi- partition of energy is dibturbed only by a ible amount even in this rather extreme case .
On of Energy By G. H. LIVENS , The University , Sheffield .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received September 19 , 1916 .
) 1 .
There still appears to be some uncertainty in the expression for the total energy of a magnetic field , and the mode of its separation into its fundam.ental constituents , as to the aether and the matter .
This is chiefly due to certain discrepancies of which exist in the results of the theory in its statical and dynamical aspects .
In the statical theory the energy is usually made to appear as though distributed over the field with the density , which corresponds to an ethereal density of amount , but in the dynamical theory the same expressions obtained with opposite signs .
In some quarters it is considered that there are difficulties of a fundamental nature involved in any attempt to remove this discrepancy , and several authors*have tried to construct a more consistent theory on a new basis .
The object of the present note is mainly to prove that it is possible to interpret the older and more usual form of the theory in a perfectly logical and consistent manner , so that the aforementioned discrepancy does not *Cf .
'Encyclopadie der mathematischen Wissenschaften , ' vol. 5 , Art .
15 , " " Electrostatik .
Magnetostatik\ldquo ; ( R. Gans ) , p. 338 , where full references are given .

