The Micro-organism of Distemper the Dog , dec. 459 Misula , W. 'System der Bakterien , 'Jena , 1897 .
Omelianski .
" Sir la fermentation de la cellulose , " ' Comptes Rendus , ' 189o .
Pammel .
" Baeteriosis of Rutabaga , " ' Bulletin 27 , ' Iowa Agricultural College , Potter.9 ' ' ' White Rot of the Turnip , " ' Proc. of the University of Durham Phil. Soc. , ' 1899 .
_ .
r , .
, Smith E. E. " Pseudomonas campestris :the cause of Brown Rot m Cruciferous Plants , " ' Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie , ' Abt .
11 , vol. 3 , 1897 ; ' Spreac o Plant Diseases .
' Massachusetts Horticultural Society , March , 1897 .
Van Senus .
' Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Cellulosegahrung , ' Leiden , 1890 .
Yan Tieghem .
" Sir la fermentation de la cellulose , " ' Bull .
d. 1 .
Societe Botanique de France , '1879 .
, Wagner , G. Quoted by E. F. Smith in ' Spread of Plant Diseases .
Wehmer , C. Die Bacterienfaule ( Nassfaule ) der Kartoffelknollen , ' Benchte der deutsch .
Bot. Gesellschaft , ' vol. 16 , 1998 ; " Ueber den Einfluss der lem-peratur auf die Entsteliung freier Oxalsaure in Culturen von Aspergillus niger , " 'Berichte der deutsch .
Bot. Gesellschaft , ' vol. 9 , 1891 .
Winogradsky .
Lafar , ' Technical Mycology , p. 19/ .
Ward ' H. Marshall .
" A Lily Disease , " ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 2 , 1888 .
" The Micro-organism of Distemper in the Dog , and the Production of a Distemper Vaccine .
" By S. Monckton Copeman , M.A. , M.D. , F.E.C.P. Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. P S. Deceived November 14 , \#151 ; Bead December 6 , 1900 .
( From the Brow 11 Institution .
) Distemper is so fatal a disease of dogs , more particularly of such as are highly bred , that a method of preventing invasion by the disease has always been a desideratum .
... .
As the result of investigations into the bacteriology of this disease , carried out in continuance of those commenced in my laboratory at St , Thomas 's Hospital about ten years ago by the late Everett Millais , I find that the specific micro-organism concerned is a small cocco-bac-illus , which stains with the ordinary aniline dyes , but is decolorised by the method of Gram .
It grows readily on the surface of agar at Body temperature ; the individual colonies when isolated by the method of plate-culture having a greyish , glistening , semi-translucent appearance by reflected light , and a light-brownish tint by transmitted light .
The general form is circular , but occasionally , and specially in primary 'growths , the edge is somewhat irregular .
The microbe also grows well in beef-broth , causing at first a general turbidity .
Enter on , a deposit falls to the bottom of the tube , and the supernatant liquid becomes somewhat clearer .
In cover-glass preparations from broth cultures the bacilli are not unfrequeutly found united together to form chains , sometimes of considerable length .
The bacillus is capable of growing , 460 The Micro-organism of Diste the Dog , though comparatively slowly , on solidified blood-serum , and also in milk , which does not become coagulated .
On potato it develops with difficulty , but now and again , after some days ' incubation , a moist-looking streak of a pale buffi colour may be observed .
If gelatine be inoculated , growth occurs slowly at the temperature of the room , and , after a time , the medium tends to become liquefied .
Growth on agar can be carried on week after week for a great number of generations , but after a dozen removes or so , its morphological and biological characteristics are found to have become somewhat altered .
An account of these variations and of the pathological histology of the disease I propose to publish subsequently .
In similar fashion the pathogenetic properties of the mitfro-organism appear to become gradually weakened , but by repeated intra-peritoneal inoculations in the guinea-pig its virulence may be regained .
The injection beneath the skin of the abdomen in a dog weighing 7 kilos , of 1 c.c. of a broth culture seven days old , derived in turn from an agar sub-culture , induced an attack of distemper , which terminated fatally in about a week from the time of inoculation .
In a large number of other dogs experimented on by Millais or myself a generally non-fatal attack has followed on inoculation of the nasal mucous membrane .
Specially characteristic of the disease intentionally produced is the fact that the animal exhibits during the attack a marked and progressive loss of weight .
Of other symptoms of the malady so well known to all dog-breeders , those which are usually most marked are the result of more or less acute inflammation of the various mucous surfaces .
On post-mortem examination I have generally found the whole respiratory tract to be specially affected , the lungs sometimes showing pneumonic consolidation throughout almost their entire extent .
The trachea is apt to be congested , and to contain a quantity of mucus , while the eyes and nose are blocked with a purulent or muco-purulent discharge .
By making agar plate-cultivations from the exudation from the lungs , from the tracheal mucus , or from the nasal secretion , the specific bacillus may be isolated\#151 ; from the first two situations , often in almost pure culture .
Examining animals which have died from distemper , whether resulting from experimental inoculation or contracted in the ordinary fashion , I have never succeeded in obtaining cultures either from the blood obtained from the heart with aseptic precautions , or from the liver , the gall-bladder , the kidney , or the spleen .
Pressure of other work since joining the Medical Staff of the Local Government Board , has prevented my having the opportunity of examining even inoculated animals at intermediate stages of the disease in severe forms , or , doubtless , it might have been found possible to isolate the bacillus from one or other of On the Tempering of Iron hardened by Overstrain .
461 these situations .
In one instance , in which the blood-vessels of the brain were found to be much congested , inoculation of a tube of sloping agar with a large platinum loopful of cerebro-spinal fluid , well spread over the surface of the agar , resulted in the appearance of half a dozen isolated colonies of a pure culture of the distemper bacillus .
By heating a broth culture of the bacillus at 60 ' C. for half an hour , and subsequently adding a small quantity of carbolic acid as a preservative , a vaccine is obtained , which acts in similar fashion to those devised by Haffkine and Wright for use in the prevention of plague and enteric fever respectively .
The vaccine may be standardised after the manner originally suggested by Wright in connection with his work on enteric fever .
The dose must obviously vary according to the size of the dog , but , as a guide , it may be mentioned that I have found , in three instances , that the injection of 2 c.c. of the sterilised culture of the bacillus is apparently sufficient to protect fox-terrier puppies weighing about kilos , against attack by distemper , while an unprotected puppy in the same batch contracted the disease on introduction of an affected dog .
I find also that guinea-pigs can be protected in this way against the effects of a dose of living culture , which would ordinarily prove fatal in about forty-eight hours .
As regards the exact length of time , however , during which such protective effect may last , no definite statement can as yet be made , but a series of tests on a large scale are in process of being carried out by dog-breeders in this-country , in Germany , and in America .
\#171 ; On the Tempering of Iron hardened by Overstrain."* ' By James- .
Muir , B.Sc. , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge , 1851 Exhibition lie search Scholar , Glasgow University .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , E.E.S. Received July 11 , \#151 ; Read December 6 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that iron hardened by overstrain , for example , by permanent stretching , may have its original properties restored again by annealing , that is , by heating it above a definite high temperature and allowing it to cool slowly .
Experiments described in the paper , of which this is an abstract , show , however , that if iron hardened by overstrain be raised to any temperature above 300 ' C. , it may be partially softened in a manner analogous to the ordinary tempering or * The work described in this paper is a continuation of that already described in a paper by the present author " On the Recovery of Iron from Overstrain , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , voi .
193 , 1899 .

