41 1889 .
] Gas Flame .
Magnetisation of Cohalt .
I should add that Mr. Fowler has glimpsed a line less refrangible than that at 500 in the spectrum of the ring nebula in Lyra .
If this should turn out to be the carbon fluting at 517 , it would seem that in that nebula we may have a state of condensation between those represented by the nebula ?
of Orion and _A.ndrom.eda , the carbon replacing the X 500 fluting of magnesium in the nebulae , as apparently happens in comets on their approach to perihelion .
III .
" Some Observations on the Amount of Luminous and Non-luminous Radiation emitted by a Gas Flame .
" By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , M.A. , Bedford Lecturer of Balliol College and Millard Lecturer of Trinity College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. G. Vernon Harcourt , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 11 , 1889 .
[ See page 55 .
] IV .
" On the Effects of Pressure on the Magnetisation of Cobalt .
" By C. Chree , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 22 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) It has long been known , from the classic researches of Dr. Joule , that a rod of iron free from stress increases in length when magnetised in a comparatively weak field .
When , however , the strength of the field is continually raised , it has been found by Mr. Shelford Bidwell that the rod ceases to increase in length , and then shortens , so that in a sufficiently strong field the length becomes less than it was originally .
It has also been found by Villari , Sir W. Thomson , and others that when a rod of iron is exposed to successive loadings and unloadings of a given weight in a magnetic field , there appears a corresponding cyclic change of magnetisation .
In this cyclic change the maximum magnetisation occurs when the load is " on , " or when the load is " off , " according as the field is weaker or stronger than a certain critical field depending on the load , called by Sir W. Thomson the Villari critical field .
Cobalt has been found by Mr. Shelford Bidwell to shorten when magnetised in weak fields , but to lengthen in very strong fields .
The field in which it ceases to shorten is very much higher than the field in which iron ceases to lengthen .
Also in weak fields Sir W. Thomson has found the magnetisation of a cobalt rod under cyclic applications of tension to be least when the tension is " on .
"

