Experiments and Observations on the different Modes in which Death is produced by certain vegetable Poisons .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F.R.S. Communicated by the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animal Chemistry .
Read February 21 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 178.1 The substances selected for these experiments are vegetable poisons only ; and they were chosen of the most active kind , that the exact nature of their effects might be more readily discerned .
The principal object of the experiments is to determine on which of the vital organs the influence of each poison is exerted , and through what medium the organ becomes affected .
The first series of experiments relates to the effects of internal application to the tongue and alimentary canal , and the second to the consequences of application to external wounds .
When proof spirit was given to a rabbit in sufficient quantity to kill it , the heart was observed to continue in action after apparent death .
The same observation was made respecting the heart of a cat , killed by injecting the root of aconite into the rectum .
When the oil distilled from bitter almonds was employed , although no more than a single drop had been given to a cat , she died in five minutes .
Two drops of the same oil injected into the rectum of another cat , killed it also in five minutes .
And the heart , in each instance , continued acting after apparent death .
Distilled oil of tobacco exerted nearly the same energy as the distilled oil of bitter almonds , and apparently in the same way , as the heart was observed to contract after apparent death .
From this circumstance , Mr. Brodie inferred that these poisons exert their primary influence on the brain , and that death ensues in consequence of the suspension of respiration , which is dependent on the brain .
When an infusion of tobacco was made use of instead of the empyreumatic oil , and injected into the rectum , the effects were different from any of the preceding , as the heart continued to contract , and was uniformly found in a state of extreme distension .
Mr. Brodie is , however , of opinion , that the heart was not directly affected , but through the medium of the nervous system .
For when the same infusion was injected into the rectum of a dog whose head had been cut off , and whose respiration was kept up by artificial means , the heart continued to act in the same manner as in the experiments which Mr. Brodie lately communicated to the Society , without being sensibly affected by the infusion .
The author 's trials of the external application of poisons were confined to the essential oil of bitter almonds , the juice of aconite , and the South American poison called Woorara .
They all produced the same effects as the two former had done when applied internally , for the heart was observed to contract , as before , long after other symptoms of life had ceased ; so that the circulation could be kept up by means of artificial respiration .
With respect to the medium through which poisons affect the brain when they are applied to external wounds , the author 's experiments were confined to the woorara .
And he endeavoured to determine whether the influence was conveyed by the nerves , or whether the poison itself entered the circulation , either by the absorbents , or through the divided veins .
By dividing the nerves of a part , the efficacy of the woorara did not appear diminished , neither did tying up the thoracic duct in any degree interfere with its action .
But when a ligature was applied round the leg of a rabbit , so as not to include the sciatic nerve , the rabbit was not in the least affected by the woorara .
The author consequently infers that the woorara acts upon the brain by passing into its substance through the divided vessels of the part to which it is applied .
Since the circulation of an animal could be kept up by an artificial respiration , after the brain had been even completely removed , Mr. Brodie conceived it possible that the functions of the brain might be 'found to recover from temporary suspension if the circulation were continued for a time by artificial respiration , and that thus the life of the animal might be preserved .
After two experiments , which were not attended with complete success , a third was made upon a rabbit , by applying distilled oil of almonds to a wound in the side .
In five minutes it ceased to breathe , and was apparently dead ; but by means of artificial respiration continued for sixteen minutes , it was completely restored to life ; and on the following day appeared not to have suffered from the experiment .

