II .
" Remarks on Organo-Metallic Bodies ; 4th Memoir .
" By EDWARD FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
( Abstract .
) In a former Memoir* the author described the production of a new series of organic compounds containing the metal tin in combination with the radicals methyl , ethyl , and amyl .
His attention was at that time especially directed to the compound formed by the union of tin with ethyl , and to which the name stanethyl was given .
The iodide of stanethyl was prepared by exposing iodide of ethyl to light or heat in the presence of tinfoil ; and , by acting with zinc upon the aqueous solution of this iodide of stanethyl or of the chloride of the same body , stanethyl itself ( C4H11Sn ) was obtained .
In accordance with a theory of the constitution of all organometallic bodies which the author then suggested , the above compounds were respectively represented as the analogues of the protiodide and biniodide of tin , thusSn I Sn(C H , ) Stannous iodide .
Stannous ethide .
Sn { I si { I Stannic iodide .
Stannic ethiodide .
It is evident that the application of this theory to the above bodies would receive considerable additional support if the second equivalent of iodine in the stannic iodide could be replaced by ethyl , or some other analogous organic group .
In the Memoir already alluded to , it was mentioned , that in studying the behaviour of stanethyl under the influence of heat , evidence was obtained of the existence of this very compound , -stannic ethide , or binethide of tin , as it was then named .
This body obviously bears the same relation to stannic iodide as stanethyl bears to stannous iodide .
Sn IS -{ C4 Stannic iodide .
Stannic ethide .
Although there could be little doubt of the formation of stannic ethide by heating stanethyl to 150 ?
C. , yet the author could not succeed in obtaining the former body in a state of purity from this source : it seemed probable , however , that stannic ethiodide would be easily converted into stannic ethide by bringing it into contact with zincethyl ; and a preliminary experiment completely realized this expectation .
The results of this reaction , together with its extension to other analogous organo-metallic compounds , form the subject of the present Memoir .
I. Action of Zincethyl upon Iodide of Stanethyl .
About two ounces of crystals of iodide of stanethyl were gradually added to a strong solution of zincethyl in ether , care being taken to preserve an excess of zincethyl .
On submitting the resulting syrupy liquid to distillation , it began to boil at 70 ?
C. ; but the thermometer rapidly rose to 180 ?
C. , between which temperature and 200 ?
C. the greater part of the product passed over , solid iodide of zinc containing a little zincethyl being left in the retort .
The distillate was washed with dilute acetic acid , and the dense ethereal liquid which separated was dried over chloride of calcium , and rectified .
The greater portion of it distilled at 1810 , and was collected apart .
Submitted to analysis , it yielded results leading to the formulaSn { 4 a The following equation , therefore , expresses the action of zincethyl upon iodide of stanethyl : Sn(C4 15t , ) Sn(C 45)2 Zn(C4H5 ) Znl Stannic ethide or binethide of tin is a limpid colourless liquid even at -130 C. , possessing a very faint ethereal odour , resembling that of oxide of stanethyl , and a slightly metallic , though not unpleasant taste .
Its specific gravity is 1 187 at 23 ?
C. A determination of the specific gravity of its vapour gave the number 8'021 , showing that stannic ethide consists of one volume of thin vapour and four volumes of ethyl , the five volumes being condensed to two .
Stannic ethide boils at 181 ?
C. , and distils unchanged , thus differing from stannous ethide , which decomposes at 150 ?
, chiefly into metallic tin and stannic ethide , a reaction calling to mind the behaviour of stannous oxide when boiled with a caustic alkali .
Stannic ethide is inflammable , burning with a lurid flame fringed with deep blue and evolving white fumes of stannic oxide .
In oxygen it burns much more brilliantly , with a white light fringed with blue .
It was important to ascertain the deportment of stannic ethide with negative elements , since , if it were found to be capable of direct combination , its analogy to inorganic stannic compounds would be , to a great extent , disproved .
Like zincethyl , however , stannic ethide is incapable of combining with any other element without the expulsion of at least an equivalent amount of its ethyl .
Treated with iodine , the latter dissolves with a deep brown colour , which , however , gradually disappears ; and if the addition of iodine be continued until decolorization be no longer effected , the resulting liquid , on being submitted to distillation , is found to consist of iodide of ethyl , which distils over , and an iodine salt , possessing the unbearably pungent odour of one of the products of the action of tin upon iodide of ethyl at 160 ?
C. , and described by MM .
Cahours and Rich as iodide of distannous ethyl , Sn2(C4Ho)21 .
The iodine salt appears , in fact , to be either identical with this body or to consist of stannic iodotriethide ( Sn2 ( C4 H)11 I)* .
Stannic ethide does not decompose water , and is not acted upon by strong aqueous hydrochloric acid in the cold .
When , however , heat is applied to the mixture of the two liquids , bubbles of gas are slowly evolved ; but it requires from twelve to eighteen hours to complete the reaction .
The gas was found to be pure hydride of ethyl , and the quantity evolved was such as to show that exactly one equivalent of ethyl was expelled in the form of hydride from two equivalents of stannic ethide , indicating the following reaction:2Sn(CI H,5)2 f C4 115H I-C1 JI Sn(C4 15)3 C II .
Action of Zincmethyl upon Iodide of Stanethyl .
About three ounces of crystallized iodide of stanethyl were gra* Whilst I was engaged with these experiments , Mr. Buckton announced the formation of stannic ethide ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. ix .
p. 315 ) , and mentioned his intention to study the salts formed by the action of iodine , bromine , &amp;c. , upon that bod ) ; I have not , therefore , prosecuted the inquiry further in this direction .
dually added to a solution of zincmethyl in ether .
Considerable heat was evolved , and the vessel in which the reaction was performed required to be plunged into cold water .
On treating the product as before described , a liquid was obtained boiling between 143 ?
and 148 ?
C. , and yielding , on analysis , numbers closely corresponding with the formula Sn { C4 H5 C2 H3 .
The action of zincmethyl upon iodide of stanethyl may therefore be thus expressed : Sn I_ Sn CAH Zn C21H3 Zn I. The new body thus formed , and for which I propose the same stannic ethylomethide , is a colourless limpid liquid , undistinguishable in appearance from stannic ethide .
It possesses , like the latter , a very faint ethereal odour and a slightly metallic taste .
Its specific gravity is 1'2319 at 19 ?
C. It does not solidify at -13 ?
C. Stannic ethylomethide boils between 144 ?
and 146 ?
C. The specific gravity of its vapour is 6'838 , showing that its constitution is similar to that of stannic ethide .
It is easily inflammable , and exhibits the same deportment as stannic ethide with chlorine , iodine , and bromine ; its combination with these elements being always attended with the expulsion of methyl .
Stannic ethylomethide dissolves iodine , assuming a magnificent crimson colour , which disappears with extreme slowness unless heat be applied .
When , however , action has once been set up , it goes on with considerable rapidity , even in the cold .
The products of this reaction were proved to be iodide of methyl and iodide of distanethyl : 2{1}2 C2 Ha I2 tcEI3 Sn C H041 31 4I Iodide of distanethyl , which has already been partially examined , although with discordant results , by M. Lowig and by MM .
Cahours and Rich , is a dark straw-coloured , somewhat oily liquid , which does not solidify at --13 ?
C. It possesses an extremely pungent and intolerable odour , resembling oil of mustard .
Its specific gravity at 15 ?
C. is 2-0329 .
At 208 ?
C. it enters into ebullition , but cannot be distilled without decomposition .
Treated with hot hydrochloric acid , stannic ethylomethide is decomposed , yielding a crystallisable salt and a gaseous mixture , consisting ofHydride of ethyl ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
81 21 Hydride of methyl ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18179 100 ?
00 IIL Action of Zincethyl upon Iodide of Mercurymethyl .
The formation of stannic ethylomethide in the manner just described , encouraged the author to attempt a similar reaction with iodide of mercurymethyl , Hg ( { C.H3 Mr. Buckton 's announcement* of the formation of mercuric ethide , Hg C4 a5 by an analogous reaction , tended also to strengthen the hope that a mercuric ethylomethide might be thus obtained .
Iodide of mercurymethyl is readily acted upon by zincethyl , but no mercuric ethide was produced , the reaction being expressed by the following equation : Hg ( C2 113)I Hg ( C , HI ) , 2Zn(C , WHO ) -1 Zn ( C.H ) Zn 1 .
IV .
Action of Zincmethyl upon Chloride of Mercuryethyl .
Although the above reaction failed to produce mercuric ethylomethide , it was still possible that this body might be formed by acting upon a mercuryethyl compound with zincmethyl .
About five ounces of chloride of mercurous ethyl ( Hg ( C , H ) C1 ) were added to four ounces of a strong ethereal solution of zincmethyl .
Considerable heat was evolved ; and after forty-eight hours the product was distilled .
All the volatile portion came over below 140 ?
C. The distillate was washed with weak acetic acid , dried over chloride of calcium , and then rectified .
A considerable portion distilled between 127 ?
and 137 ?
C. , and was collected apart .
The last few drops came over at 156 ?
C. Repeated rectifications of the product boiling between 127 ?
and 137 ?
C. did not serve to isolate any portion of the distillate , having a fixed boiling point ; on the contrary , it was evident that the range of the temperature of distillation became wider each time the operation was repeated .
A section boiling between 127 ?
and 133 ?
gave , on analysis , 13068 per cent. of carbon , whilst another section , boiling between 141 ?
and 143 ?
, gave 16771 .
The formula Hg { C4 5r irqires 1475 per cent. of carbon .
Mercuric methide boils at 96 ?
, and mercuric ethide at 159 ?
C. ; consequently mercuric ethylomethide might be expected to boil at about 128 ? .
The author considers it more than probable that mercuric ethylomethide was formed in the above reaction ; but subsequent distillations gradually transformed it , more or less perfectly , into a mixture of mercuric ethide and mercuric methide .
21Hg JCIl_f 1g ( C4 15)2 g C,2 H43 { Hg ( C2 113)2 V. Action of Zinc upon a Mixture of the Iodides of Ethyl and Methyl .
In a former memoir* the author pointed out that the vapour volume of zincethyl indicated the constitution of that body to be represented by the formula C4 H5 } Zn2 ; but it is evident that this formula would receive important confirmation if the double equivalent of zinc could be made to combine with two radicals of different composition .
An attempt was made to produce such a body by submitting simultaneously the iodides of methyl and ethyl , mixed with an equal volume of ether , to the action of zinc at 100 ?
C. In eighteen hours the decomposition of the iodides was complete , and the distilled product , on being rectified , began to boil at 38 ?
, ether and zincmethyl distilling over ; the thermometer then gradually and uniformly rose to 1200 C. , at which temperature the remainder of the product , consisting of pure zincethyl in considerable quantity , distilled over .
No evidence whatever was obtained of the existence of an intermediate compound containing both ethyl and methyl .
VI .
Zincmethyl .
The experiments detailed in the foregoing pages requiring the use of considerable quantities of zincmethyl , the author 's attention was directed to the preparation of this body in much larger quantities than could be obtained by the operations in sealed glass tubes previously described by him .
He found that the preparation of a strong ethereal solution of zincmethyl succeeded most satisfactorily in a copper digester , heated to 100 C. ; in fact , the decomposition by zinc of an ethereal solution of iodide of methyl is much more quickly and perfectly effected than that of a similar solution of iodide of ethyl ; but on submitting the product to rectification , a liquid was obtained boiling at about 51 ?
C. , spontaneously inflammable to the last degree , and possessing the intolerable odour of zincmethyl .
On analysis , however , it yielded numbers closely agreeing with the formula2C2 I3 Zn ) + C4 I : } O20 The specific gravity of its vapour was 3 1215 , a number which does not correspond with the theoretical specific gravity of a compound of the above formula , unless the exceedingly improbable assumption be adopted , that it contains two volumes of zincmethyl vapour , united with one volume of ether vapour , without condensation .
On the other hand , it accords closely with the specific gravity of the vapour of a mixture of zincmethyl and ether in the above proportions .
Without at present offering any decided opinion as to the nature of this body , the author states that in repeated operations with large quantities of materials he has entirely failed in obtaining pure zincmethyl by this method of proceeding .
Similar repeated attempts to produce pure zincethyl from zinc and iodide of methyl , without the intervention of ether , were also unsuccessful , although this method generally succeeds in small glass tubes .
This anomaly in the results obtained from the same materials heated in a copper digester and in glass tubes , is doubtless due to the difference of the conditions in the two cases .
In a glass tube half immersed in a heated oil bath , a constant distillation of the internal liquid is going on , the liquid condensed in the upper portion of the tube flowing over an extensive surface of zinc in its descent ; whilst , in a digester of thick copper , the different parts of the vessel , owing to the high conductivity of the metal , are maintained at so uniform a temperature as to prevent any such circulation of the liquid from taking place .
The body just described being regarded as a mere mixture of zincmethyl and ether , incapable of being separated on account of the close proximity of their boiling points , a more successful result was anticipated by mixing the iodide of methyl with methylic ether instead of vinic ether .
As methylic ether boils at --21 ?
C. , it was thought that no such difficulty of separation could arise ; the bodies employed would then , in fact , be exactly homologous with those so successfully used in the preparation of pure zincethyl on the large scale .
It was found , however , that although a large quantity of zincmethyl was produced , yet it was impossible to obtain it free from methylic ether .
A large portion of the product boiled at 43 ?
, a small residuum only distilling between this temperature and 48 ?
; both portions yielded , on analysis , results approaching the formula 92 13 7 , 2 H3 1^ 2(2 H3 } zn2 ) + C23 } 02 This result is , therefore , homologous with that obtained by the decomposition of iodide of methyl mixed with vinic ether .
In conclusion , the author states , that after an expenditure of many pounds of iodide of methyl , he has been unable to obtain even the smallest quantity of pure zincmethyl by the use of a copper digester , although a much larger product of the ethereal solution is obtained than in the corresponding preparation of zincethyl .

