On the Solar Eclipse which is said to have been predicted by Thales .
By Francis Bailey , Esq. Communicated by Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read March 14 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 220 .
] Notwithstanding there may be few facts in ancient history which have given rise to more discussion , this subject still appears to the author to admit of elucidation ; for though chronologists have availed themselves of the aid which astronomy could give them in fixing the exact time when this event occurred , and thereby ascertaining the dates of several other events , yet among the various periods assigned for this eclipse by different authors , we find a difference of no less than 43 years between that assigned by Scaliger , who supposed it to have happened on the 1st of October , 583 B. C. ; and that supposed by Volney , in his Chronology d'Herodote , who fixes it on February 3 , 626 B. C. The results to which most confidence has been hitherto attached , is , in fact , very nearly the mean between these extremes , and is that preferred by Bayer , in his Chronologia Scythica , published in the Petersburgh Memoirs for 1728 .
This result was founded on the computations of his friend Mayer , who , by the assistance of the best astronomnical tables then in use , found that neither the eclipse mentioned by Pliny , Scaliger , Calvisius , Petavius , or Usher , could possibly be the eclipse alluded to by Herodotus .
Mayer calculated all the eclipses from 608 to 556 before Christ , and found that of May 603 to be that which best accorded in position and magnitude with that described by Herodotus .
In the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1753 , Mr. Costard , by computations similar to those of Mayer , arrived at the same conclusion with respect to this eclipse ; but nevertheless , by introducing an allowance for the moon 's acceleration , which was not attended to by Mayer , he has assigned a path to the centre of the moon 's shadow , which Bailey observes does not pass over any part of Asia Minor , and consequently is too much to the southward for the eclipse of Herodotus .
Since the improvements which have been made of late years in astronomy , have shown the tables employed by Mayer and by Costard to be extremely defective , even in respect to the mean motions of the sun and moon , as well as the lunar equations ; and since the secular variations derived from the formule of M. Laplace were wholly unknown at the time when those tables were constructed , and must have an important effect in determining the place of conjunction at so distant a period , the author has been induced to recalculate the elements of several of these eclipses , from the new Tables Astronomiques , published a few years since by the Bureau des Longitudes in France .
These calculations , at full length , together with a map containing the paths of the moon 's shadow in these eclipses , accompany this paper , for the satisfaction of those who may be interested to enter more minutely into the subject .
The eclipses here calculated are , first , that of Pliny in May , 585 B. C. ; next that of Calvisius , 607 B. C. , each of which , as well as that of Bayer , passed too much to the south for the eclipse mentioned by Herodotus ; while that of Petavius , in July , 597 , and that of Usher , September , 601 B. C. , passed much too far to the north to have been seen in Asia Minor .
With respect to the eclipse of the year 626 , suggested by Volney , it was not total , but only annular , and moreover was not visible but to countries far eastward of Asia Minor .
Mr. Baily 's inquiries have consequently taken a greater range than those of his predecessors .
He has taken the pains to calculate all the solar eclipses from 650 before Christ to 580 , and has found only one that was central and total in or near any part of the peninsula of Asia Minor .
This eclipse took place on the 30th of September , 610 .
The centre of the moon 's shadow , in this instance , passed in the forenoon of that day , in a straight line , over the north-eastern part of Asia Minor , through Armenia into Persia , where the sun was centrally eclipsed on the meridian .
The path of the moon 's shadow is estimated by the author to have passed over the very mouth of the river Halys , and to have crossed the very ground where the armies of Cyaxares and Alyattes probably met .
And if the order of events belonging to the reign of Cyaxares , as related by Herodotus , does not accord so exactly as might be wished with this determination , and cannot be entirely reconciled to their dates , Mr. Bailey would attribute the confusion to the want of authentic documents at the time the history was written .
Although the author has employed in these calculations the secular variations of the moon 's mean longitude , mean anomaly , and mean distance from her node , as deduced from the formulae of Laplace , and given in the Tables Astronorniques , he expresses some doubts of the accuracy of these results ; and his doubts are founded upon an eclipse recorded by Diodorus to have happened during the voyage of Agathocles from Syracuse to invade Africa , in the year 310 B. C. , in which , when computed according to the present tables , the path of the moon 's shadow appears to have passed so much more south than Agathocles can be supposed to have been at that time , that the latitude of the moon would require to be at least 30 greater than our present tables make it .
These observations ( if correct ) would show the necessity of some alteration of the secular variation of the moon 's mean distance from her node ; but this hypothesis , Mr. Bailey observes , could not be reconciled with the eclipse mentioned by Herodotus ; for by means of a corresponding correction , the eclipse of 610 would be found not to be total to any part of Asia Minior ; and there is no other that could possibly be central and total within the utmost limits that are reconcileable with any received systems of chronology .

