A paper was also read , entitled , " Experimental Researches on Atomic Weights .
" By Edward Turner , M.D. , F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb .
, Professor of Chemistry in the University of London .
This paper is a continuation of the Essay , by the same author , on the Composition of the Chloride of Barium , which was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1829 .
Having shown that the atomic weights current among British chemists , though in some instances correct , or tolerably approximative , have , as a whole , been adopted on insufficient evidence , he proceeds , in this paper , to give an account of the experiments he has made to ascertain the equivalent numbers for lead , chlorine , silver , barium , and nitrogen .
Finding , with reference to lead , that the method adopted by Berzelius did not afford uniform results , he endeavoured to ascertain the quantity of subsulphate of lead which given weights of metallic lead and the protoxide of that metal respectively produce .
He details the mode he employed for the conversion of metallic lead into the subsulphate by a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids , diluted with an equal bulk of water , and the precautions he adopted to avoid loss .
The mean of three experiments gave 146*375 grains of sulphate of lead for 100 grains of metallic lead .
By the mean of four experiments , Berzelius had obtained , instead of the former number , 146*419 .
Dr. Turner adopts the mean of the whole , namely , 146*41 .
By prosecuting this inquiry , he finds the sulphate to consist of 73*575 of protoxide of lead , and 26*425 of sulphuric acid ; and that the former contains 5*274 of oxygen .
According to these results , the equivalent number for lead is 103-6 .
By experiments with the chloride of lead , which gave very uniform results , Dr. Turner obtained an equivalent number for chlorine , closely agreeing with that calculated from the analysis of chlorate of potash in the experiments of Berzelius , namely , 35*45 , but totally inconsistent with the atomic weight assigned to it by British chemists .
The accuracy of this result was further confirmed by a careful comparative analysis of the binoxide and bichloride of mercury .
The author next endeavoured to determine the equivalent number for silver , by the analysis of its oxide and sulphuret , but could not arrive at any precision in his results .
The equivalent number for barium may be calculated from his analysis of the chloride already published in the paper before alluded to .
His investigation of the equivalent of nitrogen was attempted by means of the analysis of the nitrates of silver , of lead , and of baryta ; the mean result of which gives 14*15 , agreeing very nearly with that assigned by Berzelius .
His investigation of the atomic weight of sulphur is not yet completed ; but he details several previous steps in this inquiry , which he intends to prosecute on a future occasion .
He estimates the equivalent of mercury at 202 ; a number which he considers as a close ap ?
proximation .
He concludes by various remarks on the inconsistency with experiment , which is apparent in many of the numbers adopted as chemical equivalents by British chemists ; and on the inaccuracy of those numbers which have been employed as elements in calculating the equi ?
valents of nearly all the other elementary substances .
The author thinks that Dr. Prout 's hypothesis , as advocated by Dr. Thomson , that all atomic weights are simple multiples of that of hydrogen , can no longer be maintained , and that it is at variance with the most exact analytical researches .

