430 Mr. A. Fraser .
On the Inversion of the [ Dec. 21 VI .
" On the Inversion of the Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse .
" By Alexander Fraser , M.B. , \amp ; c. , the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Allen Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1882 .
Having been engaged since May , 1881 , in the investigation of the early placentation in some of the Rodentia , rat , mouse , and guinea-pig , in which it presents peculiar features , I was so fortunate in the commencement of July of the present year to ascertain the fact that in the common grey rat and its white variety , an arrangement of the blastodermic layers existed , similar to that which had been known in the guinea-pig since the publication of Bischoff 's observations in 1852 .
I was able , early in August , to extend this fact so as to include the common house mouse and its white variety .
These facts were ascertained by the examination of entire series of microscopic sections made in three different planes of the uterine loculi of rats and mice pregnant from the eighth to the tenth day .
For the method used in imbedding I. am indebted to the kindness of Professor His , Director of the Anatomische Anstalt in Leipzig .
These facts were communicated to Dr. Thomson early in July , and formed the subject of an oral statement made to the Biological Section of the British Association at the Southampton Meeting in August .
At that period my observations did not cover a stage early enough to enable me to give a satisfactory explanation of the inversion , but since that date I have been occupied in tracing the history of the ova in the rat , mouse , and guinea-pig from the time of their leaving the ovary up to the thirteenth day of pregnancy .
My observations on the ova up to the sixth day are as yet incomplete , but as the inversion can be explained from ova of this date and onwards , I do not hesitate to offer them to the Society .
From the sixth day onwards to the thirteenth I have made , at intervals of four hours , series of sections from pregnant loculi in three different planes as already stated .
The remarks which are to follow will have reference chiefly to the rat ( so far as the ovum is concerned ) in which animal my work has been more complete than in the other two , and I shall deal first with the changes taking place in limited areas of the mucous membrane of the uterus , leading to the formation of the decidua , and onwards to the fully formed maternal portion of the placenta , and secondly with a brief outline of the developmental phenomena , so far as these are peculiar , from the sixth day onwards to the thirteenth .
1882 .
] Blastodei'mic Bayers in the Rat and Mouse .
431 The Decidua .
So far as the history of this structure is concerned , the following description will answer equally well for any one of the three animals under consideration .
It is formed by the transformation of the tissue lying between the epithelium of the uterus and the muscular wall .
This change is accompanied by the total disappearance of the uterine glands , and consists in the formation of a large mass of round-celled material , occupying the whole circumference of the uterine tube in each loculus .
The centre of this decidual mass is occupied by a prolongation of the uterine cavity formed by the extension of the decidual substance round it , while the main cavity of the uterus remains for a time continuous throughout the whole length of the uterine tube .
This continuity is interrupted about the ninth day by the obliteration of the cavity caused by the increased decidual growth , with the exception of that part of the cavity in the centre of the decidual mass in which the ovum is situated .
In the early stage the ovum is equally surrounded by decidua on all sides , but as development proceeds the decidua at the free side of the uterus gradually diminishes and disappears .
Before this takes place a separation between the decidua and the muscular wall of the uterus occurs in this region , but not until about the sixteenth day , and the slight connexion which then exists between the decidua and the free side of the uterus can be recognised as a white line passing transversely over the pregnant loculus on removing it from the abdominal cavity .
In this manner the uterine cavity becomes again continuous throughout the whole length ' of the uterine tube .
The changes taking place in the decidua at the mesometrial side of the uterus depend upon the formation of the maternal portion of the placenta ; in this region the decidua becomes vacuolated , these vacuoles forming the maternal vessels , lined at first by a single layer of flat cells , and which with the blood-vessels of the foetal portion of the placenta soon come into intimate relation .
This decidua , present in the three animals under consideration , differs remarkably in its history and extent from that of other Mammals in which the development of the blastodermic layers is regular , and it would appear that there is a close association between the form and extent of this decidua and the peculiar modification of the ordinary type of development which I am now about to describe .
The Ovum .
Of the many pregnant loculi of which I have made sections between the sixth and seventh day , the one which affords the key to the explanation of this deviation from the ordinary type of development is from Mr. A. Fraser .
On Inversion of the [ Dec. 21 a rat pregnant six days and twelve hours .
This ovum has been cut parallel to its long axis , which lies in the transverse vertical axis of the uterus .
( Fig* ! .
) Fia .
1 .
Section of ovum from rat , 6 days and 12 hours .
The ovum measures in its long axis 0*16 millim. , in breadth 0*06 raillim .
Of the zona there is no trace .
The ovum has reached the stage of a blastodermic vesicle , B.v. , the wall of which is formed over the greater part of its circumference by a delicate membrane , in which there lie sparsely scattered cells .
At the placental pole of the ovum , p.p. , or at that part of the circumference turned to the mesometrial side of the uterus , there projects into the cavity of the vesicle a flask-shaped mass of cells , the long axis of which lies in the same direction as the long axis of the vesicle , and measures 0*09 millim. ; in breadth it measures 0'04 millim. It will thus be seen that this mass of cells fills up the greater part of the cavity of the vesicle , and the placental pole of the mass is -continuous with , and forms part of , the wall of the blastodermic vesicle .
The flask-shaped mass of cells inside the vesicle , and which has its origin at the placental pole , is formed of cells , the subsequent history of which shows that they are mainly epiblastic with a cover--ing of hypoblast .
The epiblast cells , e.p. , are roughly circular , approaching the columnar character in form , and at the placental pole of the ovum lie in contact , if not actually continuous , with this limited area of the wall of the blastodermic vesicle .
They are covered on the side next the cavity of the blastodermic vesicle by a single layer of hypoblast cells , hy .
, which also at the placental pole of the ovum lie contiguous with the wall of the blastodermic vesicle at the margin of the epiblast cells .
The vesicle , then , at its placental pole exactly resembles the germinal area of an ordinary vesicle , such as that of the rabbit , which , taking the widely accepted description , is formed of a protective covering of cells ( Rauber 's layer of " Deckzellen " ) continuous with the wall 1882 .
] Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse .
48a n\#163 ; the blastodermic vesicle ; below this a layer of epiblast cells , while still more internal is the hypoblast layer .
These only extend over a limited area of the wall of the vesicle , and it is still a disputed question whether the epiblast forms the wall of the vesicle , or whether this is formed by the covering layer .
The vesicle above described for the rat has all the elements described for the rabbit with this difference , and herein lies the whole explanation of this form of development\#151 ; that there is an enormous development of the epiblast cells , which are thrust , as it were , into the cavity of the vesicle and carry the hypoblast as a single layer of cells over their surface .
This early stage , which the epiblast is solid and is not in the form of a cellular layer is succeeded in the course of a single day by a stage m which the solid epiblast of the preceding stage is converted into an epiblastic vesic e by the formation of a cavity in the interior of the solid mass ( Fig. 2 .
) This epiblastic vesicle is not open either at the placental or free pole of the ovum , and it has to be now noted that the embryonic area is not formed at the placental pole of the ovum , where the epiblast ce s began first to multiply and protrude into the cavity of ^ blastodermic vesicle , but adjacent to the free pole of the ovum , which the epiblast , owing to its great development , has now almost reached ( covered of course by the hypoblast layer ) .
At this stage , in addition to the changes in the solid mass of epiblast , leading to the formation of a cavity in its centre there has also been a development of cells from the placental pole of the blastodermic vesicle , which go on increasing during the course of development and which ultimately form a layer of large cells lying next the materna decidua ( Fig. 2 , c.v. ) In the course of another day the last-mentioned stegeissucceeded by one in which the single epiblastic vesicle becomes Fio .
2 .
Section of OTum from rat , 7 days 16 hours .
434 Mr. A. Fraser .
On Inversion of the [ Dee .
211 nipped in the middle by a circular constriction , the edges of which ultimately meet , and thus the once single epiblastic cavity is divided into two ( fig. 3 ) .
One at the free pole of the ovum becomes the neurammotic cavity , N.a. , the other next the placental pole of thu ovum is what may be termed the false amnion cavity , It is at this stage that the mesoblast first makes its appearance budding off from the epiblast at the hinder end of the embryonic area , and spreads rapidly over this area in the form of two lateral plates , which are not continuous across the middle line .
but in addition to this embryonic portion , the mesoblast also spreads in another direction , splitting at the anterior and posterior ends of th\#171 ; embryonic area .
One part of it passes oyer the amniotic part of the neur-ammotic cavity , the other passes internal to the hypoblast over the free surface of the epiblastic wall ( that surface adjacent to the true amnion ) of the false amnion cavity .
( Fig. 3 , .
) This stage m the course of another day is succeeded by one in which the two halves of the epiblastic vesicle are separated by a space , which Dr. Thomson suggests , may be termed the interamniotic space ( fig. 4 , ' a.a. ) , while the upper wall of the false amnion cavity has begun to Fio .
3 .
be depressed towards the lower , encroaching upon and filling up its own cavity .
( Fig. 4 .
) This encroachment goes on more and more until finally the walls approach and fuse with one another , the cavity disappearing , and the walls of the false amnion are converted into a 1882 .
] Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse .
Fig. 4 .
Section of ovum from rat , 9 days 17 hours .
solid mass of cells , which forms a considerable part of the structure of the foetal placenta , and which comes into relation with the allantois in a manner to be presently described .
, _ .
The allantois consisting of a solid mass of mesoblastic cells , in which there is no hypoblastic dilatation , grows outwards from the posterior end of the embryo into the above-mentioned inter-amniotic space .
( Fig. 4 , all .
) A little over the eleventh day it reaches the mass of cells formed from the false amnion , while its vessels formed in the same manner as in other animals , pass through the mass of cells and penetrate the maternal part of the placenta , accompanied by extensions of the cellular structure derived from the placental pole of the blastodermic vesicle .
The alimentary canal begins to be separated from the general hypoblast in the form of a groove which up to the twelfth day opens freely into the space between the hypoblast , and the wall of the blastodermic vesicle .
The peripheral portion of hypoblast outside the alimentary groove , which is equivalent to the yolk sac of other animals , and becomes vascular in a similar manner by the mesoblastic lining on its inner surface , becomes thrown into villous prow 436 Blastodermic Layers in the Rat and Mouse .
[ Dec. 21 cesses which are continued over the surface of the placenta as far a\#187 ; the central place of insertion of the allantois .
The arrangement of the fully formed membranes is now easily seen : the wall of the blastodermic vesicle is the external one , and is continuous with the margins of the placenta ; it becomes much stronger in the older stages .
Inside this membrane is one formed of hypoblast and vascular mesoblast and which was continuous with the alimentary canal , while inside the interamniotic space is the stalk of the allantois .
I do not at present enter into a further description of the general phenomena of foetal development , because after the closure of the neur-amniotic cavity and the establishment of the relation of the parts already described , the subsequent phenomena are essentially similar to those of other animals .
As to the ca , use of thefpeculiar form of development of the blastodermic layers in some of the rodents to which reference is made in this communication , it would be premature to speculate until its conditions have been more fully ascertained ; but I would remark that this peculiarity appears to stand in some close and constant relation to the very early , rapid , and voluminous formation of the solid mass-of decidua within which the ovum is from the first enclosed in all those animals in which the so-called inversion of the layers has been observed .
Since the observations above recorded were made , three short papers bearing upon the subject have appeared in Germany during the month of November , one by Professor Hensen , of Kiel , * dealing with the guinea-pig , another by Professor Kupffer , of Munich , !
on the field mouse , and a third by Professor Selenka , of Erlangen , + on the white mouse , all of which were unknown to me until some time after I had arrived at the conclusions stated in the preceding pages .
Without entering into any detailed criticism of the contents of these papers , I may state that the main difference between Professor Kupffer and myself has reference to the early condition of the epiblast , which is solid in the rat , but which he describes as forming in the field mouse a single involuted layer .
In conclusion I have to express my warmest acknowledgments to Dr. Thomson , who has gone over all these observations with me , and to whom I am indebted for many suggestions in my description of this work .
The figures are diagrammatic .
* Yerhandl .
des Physiol-Vereins in Kiel .
" Sitzung vom 2 Nov. , 1882 .
t " Sitz .
Ber .
d. k.JB .
Akad .
der Wiss .
" 4 Nov. , 1882 .
t " Biolog .
Centralblatt .
" 15 Nov. , 1882 .
P. 550 .
1882 .
] Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
437 Alphabetical List of Reference Letters .
All .
Allantois .
JB.v .
Blastodermic vesicle .
c.v. Cellular layer derived from placental pole of blastodermic vesicle .
ep .
Epiblast .
fa .
False amnion cavity , hy .
Hypoblast .
La. Interamniotie space .
m. Mesoblast .
N.a. Neur-amniotic cavity .
p.p. Placental pole of blastodermic vesicle .
VII .
" On the Electric Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Hugo Muller , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1882 .
In anticipation of a paper to he shortly communicated to the Society , we wish to state that we have found that the pressure of least resistance for a given gas is not a constant , but that it varies with the diameter , shape , and dimensions of the vessel employed .
Moreover , that the dark space near the negative in electric discharges in vacuum tubes is dark only by comparison ; for we have obtained a photographic image of the dark discharge in a tube in which the strata remained steady during forty-five minutes .
The time of exposure was fifteen and thirty-five minutes ; a comparison of the latter result with a photograph obtained of the strata in two and a half seconds shows that the dark space is 840 times less bright than a stratum .
Lastly , a tube with palladium terminals , which we made several years ago , containing hydrogen gas , shows in a remarkable manner the power of terminals to occlude gas and to give it off again .
On passing an electric discharge through this tube for a few seconds , it becomes blackened , especially near the negative , by the deposit of a mirror-like film ; on leaving the tube for few days ' rest , this mirror disappears entirely , and is reproduced by passing a fresh current .
It is most probably a volatile hydrogen alloy of palladium .
The effects described have been reproduced very many times during eight years .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 11th , 1883 .
2 a VOL. xxxiv .

