III .
" On the Causes of the great Variation among the different Measures of the Earth 's Mean Density .
" By Captain W. S. JACOB , Director of the Observatory at Madras .
Communicated by the Rev. BADEN .
POWELL , F.R.S. Received October 25 , 1856 .
The result of the Pendulum experiments in the Harton Colliery , undertaken by the Astronomer Royal in 1854 , and detailed in his paper presented to the Royal Society in January 1856 , appears at first sight rather startling , as adding to the already somewhat discrepant measures or estimates of the earth 's mean density one more discordant than ever ; so that we have now values ranging from 4*7 to nearly 66 ; a range , which , in the absence of any sufficient ground for selecting any one as true to the exclusion of the rest , would seem to deprive us of all confidence in their correctness as measures , and leave them rather to be classed as estimates of a very rough description .
But it will be my endeavour to show , that , while none of the methods employed are capable of giving strictly accurate results , the Cavendish experiment is the one which may be relied on as giving a good approximation to the truth , within limits of error ( when conducted with proper precaution ) far less than those to which either of the other methods are liable .
The three principal methods which have been tried are , -lst , the Schehallien or tIuttonian , which consists in comparing the total attraction of the earth with that of a mountain mass , by measuring astronomically the inclination of the normals at a given distance in the meridian-plane on each side of the mass ; and then inferring the attraction of the mass from the difference of this inclination from what it would be on an exact spheroid ; 2nd , the Cavendish experiment , in which the earth 's total attraction is compared , by means of the torsion-balance , with that of a small mass of known dense material ; and 3rd , the pendulum , or Airy 's experiment , in which the total attraction is compared with that at some distance below the surface , or by means of diQerences , with that of the outer spheroidal shell , whose density may be supposed , approximately at least , to be known .
Now none of these methods give the mean density as a direct result ; for the result obtained , the earth 's total attraction , is=g x the sum of ( all the particles divided respectively by the squares of their distances ) instead of gx ( the total mass divided by the square of the radius or mean distance ) : and to assume the equality of these , is to assume the earth to be a sphere , and to have its matter arranged in concentric shells or layers of equal density throughout each layer , both of which we know to be untrue .
Mr. Airy has indeed shown that , in the case of his experiment , it is sufficient if we know , as regards the upper shell , the form and density of that portion which is in the immediate neighbourhood of the place of observation , without attending to irregularities of distant parts ; but he has not shown that variations of density below and near to his lowest station would not sensibly vitiate his results .
In order to show the nature and amount of error that might thus be introduced , let AB be a section of the earth through Fig. 1 .
the centre , AC an inscribed A sphere of half the diameter ; then it is evident that on the supposition of a uniform density throughout , the attraction of the small sphere on the point A would be just half of C the total attraction of the earth , although its mass would amount to but a ; and if this small sphere were to have its density doubled , the total attraction at A would be increased by one-half , while the mean density would be altered by only - .
Now it is quite true that we need not fear any great deviation of density extending through so large a portion of the earth , for that would displace the centre of gravity to a sensible extent , which Fig. 2 .
would become perceptible in the A measurements of latitude ; but a local deviation might produce a smaller but yet sensible amount of error ; thus if AC ' ( fig. 2 ) represent a sphere of 100 miles diameter , the attraction of this on 1 dg the point A will=- ; where\ D is the earth 's mean density , d that of the small sphere , and g the total attraction at A. If , therefore , d should be changed to d ' , the attraction at A , or the apparent mean density , will be altered in the d ' d proportion of 1:lt 8 ; which might be a sensible quantity without producing any sensible effect on the true mean density , or on the position of the centre of gravity , since the bulk of AC ' would be only about o0-0o of that of the earth .
Now we know little or nothing of the density of the matter a few miles below the surface ; only we are sure , from the discordant lengths of the pendulum in different latitudes , and even in the same latitude under different meridians , that the local deviations are indeed sensible , yet of so small an amount as hardly to affect this inquiry , and that the error from this cause can never even approach 1 per mill .
The Cavendish experiment may therefore be considered as practically free from error of this kind ; and as regards errors arising from manipulation or instrumental causes , their probable amount may be determined in the ordinary way from the variation of the results .
But if the Cavendish , why may not the IStIutonian experiment equally be considered free from error ?
Because in the former we are dealing with disturbing masses whose amount is exactly known , whereas in the latter , while we may approximately measure the mass of the mountain above the surface , we do not know how much may be added or abstracted below ; and we have no right to assume that the mountain is merely a detached mass resting upon the general surface ; it will almost certainly have roots differing in density from the surrounding country , as has been ably shown by Mr. Airy in the Philosophical Transactions for 1855 , page 101 .
In the case of the pendulum experiment the uncertainty is somewhat greater ; thus , let AB represent the Harton pit , and let BC be a sphere of lead ( supposed to lie at its Fig. 3 .
foot ) of a diameter equal to AB ( i. e. about mile ) ; the density of this being -about double the mean density of the earth and about quadruple that of the neighbouring country , its excess of attraction on B will be -1 n while its attraction at A will be only -9 of this , and the difference of its attraction on the two stations will therefore be 23Q5being only a little less than the whole quantity observed by Mr. Airy .
We may indeed be pretty sure that there is no such mass of lead , or mineral of nearly equal density , at the foot of the Harton shaft , yet it is quite conceivable that there should be , within the sphere BC , an excess of density amounting to ?
of that of lead , or about 14 ; and this would produce a difference of effect on A and B amounting to 144,00and D* would alter the value of to 2-384 , and that of Et to 5-96 , d approaching considerably nearer to Baily 's determination .
Further , there must doubtless be a small latitude allowed to the assumed density of the upper strata , the average of which , within the limits that would affect the pendulum , may not be exactly the same as in the immediate vicinity of the pit ; supposing it to be 2'4 instead of 2'5 , E will be reduced to 5'72 , being nearly identical with Baily 's value .
If it should be objected that so large a variation of density as that assumed above ( 1 4 ) , though possible , is not likely ; the same effect might be produced by a smaller rate of change through a greater space ; thus an addition of about 0'5 to the specific gravity of a sphere of 1 mile in diameter , or of 0'33 to one of 10 miles diameter , would have nearly the same effect , and it cannot be contended that these are improbably large .
Should the experiment ever be repeated , it would be desirable to swing the pendulum at one ( at least ) intermediate station between the top and bottom of the shaft , by which means any error of this kind might be approximately eliminated .
In the mean time I think there are hardly sufficient grounds for impugning the correctness of the value of E ( 5'67 ) deduced by the late Francis Bailey from his carefully conducted repetition of the Cavendish experiment .

