548 Origin of the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
As an illustration of the practical value of the relations thus formulated we may refer to a paper written concurrently with the present communication , * in which it is shown by their use that the dilution law a2/ ( l \#151 ; a ) = K(li\#151 ; nf is valid for the chlorides of lithium , sodium and potassium both in dilute and in concentrated solutions and that it is in conformity with the requirements of the law of mass action .
There is reason to believe that the simple relation 8p/ p = i/ ( h\#151 ; n ) which it is the purpose , of the present communication to establish is even more accurate than the approximations by which it is reached would lead us to expect , and that the small inaccuracies introduced by the approximations practically cancel one another , except in the region of dilute solutions near the freezing point , in which the idiosyncrasies of water are so marked .
But here the relation is never in practice required , since the values of 8p are so small as to be incapable of direct measurement .
On the Origin of the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
By Frank Horton , ScjD .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. j. Thomson , O.M. , F.E.S. Eeceived May 14 , \#151 ; Eead June 25 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) * The electron emission from Nernst filaments has been measured under different conditions and the following results have been obtained :\#151 ; 1 .
The electron emission from a filament heated by an alternating current is of the same magnitude as that obtained when the filament is heated by a continuous current to the same temperature .
2 .
The electron emission from a Nernst filament at a given temperature is the same when heated by conducting an electric current as when heated by a glowing metal wire passing through it .
3 .
The electron emission from a Nernst filament heated in the usual manner is the same as that given by the material of the filament when powdered and heated upon platinum .
These results show that the action of an oxide cathode does not depend * 'Trans .
Chem. Soc.,5 vol. 105 , p. 1809 ( 1914 ) .
Attempts to Produce the Rare Gases by Electric Discharge .
549 upon electrolysis accompanying the conduction of a current through the oxide .
Various suggestions as to the origin of the electron emission from glowing solids are discussed in the paper , and it is concluded that the experimental evidence points to the correctness of the original theory that an electron emission can arise as a result of thermal agitation alone , but that this emission may be aided or hindered in several ways .
Attempts to Produce the Rare Gases by Electric Discharge .
By Thomas R. Merton , B.Sc. ( Oxon .
) .
( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Collie , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read .
June 25 , 1914 .
) The object of the present investigation was to obtain some further evidence on the apparent production of neon and helium by electric discharges in vacuum tubes , which has been described by Collie and Patterson.* Struttf has recently attempted to repeat these experiments , using methods somewhat different to those of Collie and Patterson , with negative results .
It is evident that in experiments of this kind the most rigorous precautions must be taken to exclude air from the apparatus , for although the rare gases are only present in the atmosphere in relatively small quantities , an exceedingly small quantity of air is required to give evidence of their presence .
Strutt ( loc. cit. ) has been able to detect with his apparatus the neon in 0*01 c.c. of air and has expressed the opinion that under favourable conditions the neon might be detected in 0*001 c.c. The method of the present investigation differs essentially from that used either by Collie and Patterson or by Strutt .
The apparatus , shown in the figure , consists of a bulb A connected to a glass tube L , which passes very nearly to the bottom of the bulb B. From the tube L are two branch tubes C and D , of which C leads to the sparking tube S and palladium tube P , and D leads to the stopcock H and thence to the mercury pump .
The tube D is connected by a bye-pabs E , with a stopcock , to the bulb B , which is provided with another branch tube with a stopcock F. At the top of the bulb A is a fine capillary tube K , into which is sealed a fine * 'Trans .
Chem. Soc.,5 vol. 103 , p. 419 ( 1913 ) .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' A , vol. 89 , p. 499 ( 1914 ) .

