1'he " Ginger-beer Plant " Jo urnals ( continued ) .
Revue Medico-Pharmaceutique .
1891 .
Nos. 6-10 .
4to .
stantiiurple- ] The Editors .
Stazioni Sperimentali Agrarie Italiane ( Le ) Vol. XXI .
Fasc .
4 .
8vo .
Asti 1891 .
R- Stazione Enologica , Asti .
Victorian Year-Book .
1889-90 .
8vo .
Melbourne 1890 .
The Goveimment of Victoria .
December 17 , 1891 .
Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.O.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Chairman read the following letter from Professor Dewar : Royal Institution , 17th December , 1891 .
Dear Sir William Thomson , I had intended coming to the Society , in order to make a further communication with regard to the magnetic and other properties of liquid oxygen , but I am confined to the Laboratory , owing to difficulties with regard to the progress of such investigation .
In the meantime it may interest the Fellows to know that I have examined the properties of liquid ozone in the magnetic field , and find it also highly attracted .
I hope to make a detailed communication very soon to the Society .
Yours faithfully , James Dewar .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; 1 .
" The ' Ginger-beer Plant/ and the Organisms composing it : a Contribution to the Study of Fermentation-yeasts and Bacteria .
" By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany at the Forestry School , Royal Indian Engineering College , Cooper 's Hill .
Received November 19 , 1891 .
The author has been engaged for some time in the investigation of a remarkable compound organism found in home-made ginger-beer fermentations .
262 Prof. H. M. Ward .
The " Ginger-beer Plant , " [ Dec. 17 , It occurs as jelly-like , semi-transparent , yellowish-white masses , aggregated into brain-like clumps , or forming deposits at the bottom of the fermentations , and presents resemblances to the so-called Kephir grains of the .Caucasus , with which , however , it is by no means identical .
He finds that it consists essentially of a symbiotic association of a specific Saccharomycete and a ScMzomyce , morphologically comparable to a Lichen , but , as met with naturally , invariably has other species of yeasts , bacteria , and mould-fungi casually associated with these .
He has successfully undertaken the separation of the various forms , and groups them as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The essential organisms are a yeast , which turns out to be a new species allied to Saccharomyces ellipsoideus ( Reess and Hansen ) , and which he proposes to call S. pyriformis ; and a bacterium , also new and of a new type , and named by him Bacterium vermiforme .
2 .
Two other forms were met with in all the specimens ( from various parts of the country and from America ) examined\#151 ; cerevisice ( Desm .
) and Bacterium aceti ( Kiitzing and Zopf ) .
3 .
As foreign intruders , more or less commonly occurring in the various specimens examined , were the following:\#151 ; a. A pink or rosy yeast-like form\#151 ; Cryptococcus glutinis ( Fresenius .
) ?
ft. A small white aerobian top-yeast , with peculiar characters , and not identified with any known form .
\lt ; y. The ordinary beer-yeast\#151 ; Saccharomyces cerevisice ( Meyen and Hansen ) .
B. Three , or probably four , unknown yeasts of rare occurrence .
e. A bacillus which forms spores , and liquefies gelatine with a greenish tinge .
S ' .
A large spore-forming bacillus , which also liquefies gelatine .
y and 9 .
Two\#151 ; perhaps three\#151 ; other Schizomycetes not identified .
t. A large yeast-like form which grows into a mycelium , and turns out to be O'idium lactis ( Fresenius ) .
k. A common blue mould\#151 ; Penicillium glaucum ( Link ) .
A brown " Torula''-like form , which turns out to be Dematium pullulans ( De Bary ) .
fi .
One , or perhaps several , species of " Torula " of unknown origin and fates .
Of these forms , the author has succeeded in cultivating and examining very thoroughly all but those under 9 and in the foregoing list .
Saccharomyces pyriformis ( n.sp.)is a remarkably anaerobian bottom-yeast , forming spores , and developing large quantities of carbon dioxide , but forming little alcohol .
It has also an aerobian form-veil form of Hansen\#151 ; in which the rounded cells grow out into club-shaped or pyriform cells , whence the proposed specific name .
It inverts jg91 .
] awe ?
the Organisms composing it 263 | cane sugar , and ferments the products ; but it is unable to ferment milk sugar .
It forms rounded , morula-like , white colonies in gelatine , and the author has separated pure cultures from these .
He has also ( i studied the development and germination .of the spores , which are formed in 24\#151 ; 48 hours at suitable temperatures on porous earthenware blocks .
They also develop on gelatine .
The technological characters have been kindly determined and } confirmed for the author by Mr. Horace Brown , F.R.S. , and Hr .
Morris , of Burton-on-Trent .
The specific Schizomycete ( Bacteriumvermiforme , n.sp .
) has been very fully studied by the author .
It occurs in the fermentations as ( rodlets or filaments , curved or straight , encased in a remarkably thick , I firm , gelatinous sheath , and is pronouncedly anaerobic , so much so , that the best results are got by cultivating it in carbon dioxide under pressure .
The sheathed filaments are so like worms , that the name proposed I for the species is appropriately derived from this character .
It will not grow on gelatine , and separation cultures had to be made in saccharine liquids by the dilution methods .
It grows best in solutions of beet-root , or of cane sugar , with relatively large quantities of nitrogenous organic matter\#151 ; e.g. , bouillon , asparagin\#151 ; and tartaric acid .
Good results were obtained with mixtures of Pasteur 's solution and bouillon .
The author found that the bacterium into which the filaments subsequently break up can escape from its sheath and become free , in which state it divides rapidly like ordinary bacteria .
Eventually , all i the forms\#151 ; filaments , long rods , short rodlets\#151 ; break up into cocci .
No spores have been observed .
These changes are dependent especially on the nutritive medium , but are also affected by the gaseous j environment qnd the temperature .
The jelly-like clumps of the so-r called " ginger-beer plant " are essentially composed of these sheathed and coiled Schizomycetes , entangling the cells of pyriformis .
But the action of the Schizomycete alone on the sac-J charine medium differs from that exerted when it is associated with the yeast , and from that exerted by the latter alone .
This was proved by cultivating each separately , and also by cultivations in which , while each organism was submerged in the same U fermentable medium , they were separated by permeable porcelain !
( i ( Chamberland filters ) , through which neither could pass .
The author has also reconstructed the " ginger-beer plant " by \#166 ; ; mixing pure cultures of the above two organisms ; the Schizomycete J entangled the yeast-cells in its gelatinous coils , and the synthesised J compound organism behaved as the specimens not analysed into their Jj constituents .
Some very curious phenomena in connexion with the formation of VOL. l. x 264 The il Ginger-beer Plant " [ Dec. 17 , | the gelatinous sheaths and the escape of the bacteria from them were observed in hanging-drop cultures , and are figured and described by j the author .
The conditions for the development of the gelatinous sheaths\#151 ; and therefore of the coherent brain-like masses of the Schizomycete\#151 ; are a saccharine acid medium and absence of oxygen .
The process occurs best in carbon dioxide : it is suppressed in bouillon , and in neutral solutions in hydrogen , though the organism grows in the free , non-sheathed , motile form under these conditions .
The behaviour of pure cultures of the bacteria in as complete a vacuum as could be produced by a good mercury pump , worked daily , and even several times a day for several weeks , is also noteworthy .
The author records his thanks to his friend and colleague Professor McLeod for much assistance in regard to this apparatus .
The development of the sheaths is apparently indefinitely postponed , hut the organism increased , and each time the pump was set going au appreciable quantity of carbon dioxide was obtained .
In vacuum tubes the same gas was evolved , and eventually attained a. pressure sufficient to burst some of the tubes .
The quantity of carbon dioxide evolved daily by the action of the bacterium alone , however , is small compared with that disengaged when the organism is working in concert with the symbiotic yeast ; in the latter case the pressure of the gas became so dangerous that the author had to abandon the use of sealed tubes .
The products of the fermentation due to the Schizomycete have not yet been fully determined in detail ; lactic acid , or some allied compound , seems to be the chief result , but there are probably other bodies as well .
The author owes acknowledgment to Dr. Matthews , of Cooper 's Hill , for advice and assistance in examining the products of these f ermen tations .
The pink yeast-like form proved to be very interesting .
It has nothing to do with the " ginger-beer plant " proper , though it was invariably met with as a foreign intruder in the specimens .
The author identifies it with a form described by Hansen , in 1879 j* unfortunately the original is in Danish , but the figures are so good that little doubt is entertained as to the identity .
It is also probably the same as Fresenius ' Cryptococcus in one of its forms .
It is not a Saccharomycete , and does not ferment like a yeast ; it is aerobian .
The chief discovery of interest was that in hanging drops the author traced the evolution of this " rose-yeast " into a large complex mycelium , bearing conidia , and so like some of the Basidio-mycetes that it may almost certainly be regarded as a degraded or * ' Organismer i Ol og Olurt , ' Copenhagen , 1879 .
1891 .
] The Morphology of Spore-producing Members/ 265 \#171 ; torula " stage of one of these higher fungi .
Full descriptions and figures are given by the author .
The form My coderma cerevisice was thoroughly examined .
The author 's results confirm what is known as to its aerobian characters .
Statements as to its identity with Oidium lactis were not only not confirmed , but the author grew these two forms side by side , and maintains their distinctness .
Nor could he obtain spores in this fungus , thus failing to confirm earlier statements to the contrary .
He regards it as probable that oil-drops have been mistaken for spores ; he also finds that in later stages of fermentation by this organism a strong oily-smelling body is produced .
With regard to Bacterium aceti , the author has nothing new to add .
A point of some interest was the repeated production of acetic ether , which scented the laboratory when this Schizomycete was growing in company with the small white aerobian top-yeast referred to under ( / ?
) .
As this phenomenon was found to have nothing to do with the question being investigated , the author did not pursue it further .
It seemed probable , however , that the yeast produced alcohol , , which the Schizomycete , in presence of oxygen , partially oxidised , and that the fragrant ether was produced by interaction of the products .
With regard to the other forms found , the author was chiefly concerned with testing their relations to the important and essential organisms .
It need only be remarked here that hanging-drop cultures of Dematium pullulans were very successful , and that some of the moulds , and at least one bacillus ( of which the spore-forma-tion , \amp ; c. , were traced also ) , were traced to the ginger used in the manufacture of the well-known beverage .
The author hopes very shortly to have the honour to lay before the Society a full account of his research , of which the above is only a brief notice .
The fuller account will contain detailed descriptions , as well as figures of the apparatus , mode of culture , \amp ; a. II .
" Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
Preliminary Statement on the Lycopodiuae and Ophio-glossaceae .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1891 .
It is currently held that the sporophyte , or neutral generation in archegoniate plants , is the result of elaboration of the zygote : that while in certain Algae the zygote simply divides to form a number of spores ( carpospores ) , in the lower Bryophyta there has been a differentiation of an external , sterile , and protective wall , distinct from the t 2

