OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
James Jago , B.A. ( Cantab .
) and M.D. ( Oxon .
) , was a physician of considerable repute in Wbst Cornwall .
He was born on December 18 , 1815 , at the barton of Kigilliack , Budock , near Falmouth , once a seat of the Bishops of Exeter .
He was the second son of Mr. John Jago , and the representative of an old Cornish family , who were resident in the parish of St. Erme , near Truro , before the year 1588 .
One of his lineal ancestors was a staunch Parliamentarian , who was appointed a Commissioner of Sequestration by Oliver Cromwell , after the death of Charles I. Young Jago received his early education at the Falmouth Classical and Mathematical School , where he remained a pupil until about 1833 .
About this time he expressed a strong desire to go through a course of training at one of the Universities , but preparatory to this he had the benefit of some private tuition .
He had , however , always a great respect for the instruction he received in the Falmouth School , and he retained a deep interest in its prosperity to the end of his life .
In 1835 Mr. Jago entered St. John 's College , Cambridge , as a pensioner , and graduated B.A. in the Mathematical Tripos of 1839 as 32nd Wrangler .
Soon after obtaining his degree , he resolved to adopt the medical profession as his future occupation of life .
For this purpose , and to obtain the necessary qualifications , he studied at various hospitals in London , Dublin , and Paris .
But anxious to obtain a good medical degree , he resolved to go through a special second course of training at the University of Oxford , where he accordingly entered his name as a student , both in arts and medicine , on the books of Wadham College , from which he graduated B.A. and M.B. in 1843 , and finally M.D. in 1859 .
During the early years of his professional career , after he had chosen Truro for his residence , Dr. Jago was a voluminous writer on various medical subjects , the most important of which were investigations on certain special diseases of the eye .
One of his first contributions on this subject , contained in a series of papers published in the 4 London Medical Gazette/ is that entitled 44 Points in the Physiology and Diseases of the Eye .
" In these papers he developed certain entoptical methods of exploring the eye by means of divergent beams of light , which he considered to be an explanation which preceded all like solutions of the problem .
In 1854 he communicated to the Royal Society a paper on 44 Ocular Spectres and VOL. lit .
b Structures as Mutual Exponents , " which was followed by another on the same subject in 1856 .
In 1857 a paper " On the Functions of the Tympanum " was also read before the Royal Society .
These three papers are published in the ' Proceedings .
' Among his other medical papers , which are mostly inserted in the proceedings of kindred societies , or in medical journals , the following titles will give a good notion of Dr. Jago 's original investigations .
" The Eustachian Tube : why opened in Deglutition ?
" 1856 ; w Pains in the Abdominal and Thoracic Walls , " 1861 ; " Ophthalmoscopic Muscae Voli-tantes in a very Myopic Eye , " 1861 ; " Medicine as influenced by Scientific Tendencies , " 1861 ; " Entacoustics , " 1868 ; and important papers on " Entoptics , " published in the 'British and Foreign Chirurgical Review , ' 1859 .
So much interest was taken in Dr. Jago 's papers on Entoptics that he was encouraged to continue his investigations on this subject , which resulted in a publication of a separate treatise in 1864 under the title of ' Entoptics , with its Uses in Physiology and Medicine , ' giving not only his own views in some detail , but also those of other writers .
This work is an exposition of a difficult subject , especially as the author has ventured on untrodden ground while investigating and suggesting explanations of phenomena which had not hitherto been sufficiently accounted for .
Dr. Jago was also a contributor to the 'Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall , ' which contains his papers " On Observations of the Solar Phenomenon of April 5,1871 ; " " Han git ha Cross , " with illustrations ; and " Ancient Cross at Trelanvean , St. Keverne .
" During the last forty years or more , Dr. Jago took a considerable interest in the proceedings of the Royal Institution of Cornwall at Truro .
He had served as Honorary Secretary for many years , and in 1873 was elected President for two years .
His presidential addresses , delivered at the annual meetings of the Institution , have all been marked as giving the history and progress of Cornish science , and even at the present time may be read with profit .
As a Vice-President he continued so long as he was able to take his personal share of work , and his presence on all occasions was always looked upon as certain .
Lately , however , owing to his feeble health , he was compelled to retire altogether from any active participation in the management of the Institution .
This forced retirement of Dr. Jago from so many of his old associations was much regretted by his friends .
He , however , remained a Vice-President until his death , and , though he was unable to attend the meetings , his interest in the proceedings never abated .
In 1856 , Dr. Jago was appointed Physician to the Royal Cornwall Infirmary , and he was also connected with other medical institutions at Truro .
On June 2 , 1870 , he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
Dr. Jago was married in 1864 to Maria Jones , daughter of Mr. Ill Richard Pearce , of Penzance , by whom he leaves two daughters .
Seven or eight years ago he had an attack of paralysis , which compelled him to retire from practice .
He had since been an invalid , getting gradually weaker from year to year , though he was able to take his usual daily drive till within a few days of his death .
He died on January 18 , 1893 , at the age of seventy-seven .
E. D. The Rev. Charles Pritchard , D.D. , Savilian Professor of Astronomy in the University of Oxford , was born at Alberbury , Shropshire* , on February 29 , 1808 , being the fourth son of Mr. William Pritchard .
In his early youth he was sent to a private school at Uxbridge , of which his recollections were slight , but the little that he did remember of its internal and economical arrangements were not pleasant .
When nearly eleven years old he was removed to Merchant Taylors ' School , to which , according to an entry in Robinson 's Registers of the school , he was admitted in January , 1819 .
In those hardy days it was the custom of the school to commence work at 7 in the morning , and , as young Pritchard 's home was at Brixton , he was accustomed , for a year and a half or more , to take this long and weary walk of nearly four miles at a very early hour , regardless of rain or fog .
Referring to this period of his schooldays , in bis 'Annals of our School Life , ' Pritchard says : " I do not remember that I ever complained of this severe arrangement ; I was old enough to be aware that temporary economical necessities were the cause , and I can never forget that the words most frequently heard in my home were ' education , ' ' education ' ; so I suppose I felt I was being ' educated .
' " Apparently , however , he did not profit so much as he desired from the instruction he received at this school .
From Merchant Taylors ' young Pritchard was transferred to an admirable academy at Poplar , conducted by a Mr. John Stock\#151 ; ra self-educated , energetic , and practical man , of very considerable abilities .
Here he felt more in his natural element , and he always referred to the practical training he received at this school with the greatest respect .
In addition to the general school education usually obtainable at that time , the senior pupils were indulged with the sight and handling of a number of instruments and working models made and used by the celebrated Ferguson , the astronomer .
These included some telescopes and quadrants , which excited the curiosity of young Pritchard and other intelligent youths , and probably , in his case , formed the turning-point of scientific proclivities .
He has himself said that " very many of us could use the theodolite , and could survey and plot an estate .
Our practice-ground was mainly in the Isle of Dogs , at that time an all but unoccupied waste , and I well remember how , at the age of less than sixteen , I earned two guineas b 2 IV for indoctrinating an intending colonist in the art of field-surveying .
I did not leave him until we had completed the plan of Kennington Common , and had calculated its acreage .
" On leaving this excellent private school , after about two years ' tuition , young Pritchard had an opportunity of becoming a private pupil of the Head Master of Christ 's Hospital School , who was at that time permitted to take a limited number of private pupils and place them in the public classes under his own personal care .
Here young Pritchard attended to his classical studies with great diligence .
He was accustomed to recall to his mind , with satisfaction , that , for about a twelvemonth , he was placed at the head of the Deputy Grecians .
Owing to family pecuniary difficulties , arising from the failuie of a manufacture conscientiously but unsuccessfully persevered in by his father , young Pritchard was reluctantly withdrawn from Christ 's Hospital School .
A question now naturally arose in his family as to the future occupation of the youth , who was not yet seventeen years of age , and considered to possess a more than average amount of scholastic knowledge , scientific tastes , and literary abilities .
Fortunately , by the advice and intervention of an elder brother , he was permitted to follow his own devices for continuing his education as best he could , with the ultimate hope that means would be found somehow to enable him to enter one of the Universities .
" So , " he has remarked , " I was left to my own resources , and happily a genuine love of knowledge of any and every sort stirred within my intellectual frame ; and , inasmuch as the most attainable form of knowledge for the untutored was , and still is , mathematics , so to mathematics I betook myself with a will .
" These two years , 1824\#151 ; 1826 , were mostly devoted to self-instruction , and in this interval he made some acquaintance with the contents of Wood 's 'Algebra , ' Woodhouse 's treatise on 'Plane and Spherical Trigonometry , ' Dr. Lardner 's treatises on ' Analytical Geometry and the Differential Calculus , ' and other mathematical works .
At the same time he attended some courses of lectures on chemistry , delivered at Guy 's Hospital .
He was much interested in these lectures , and ever after in the science , the benefit of which was reaped in after years at Clapham .
In 1825 , when only seventeen , he first felt the ambition of authorship , and published an ' Introduction to Arithmetic , ' in which the elementary properties of numbers are explained and demonstrated on the simplest principles .
In many respects , these two years turned out to be an important epoch in the life of Pritchard , for by the most determined perseverance in his own studies , and by the assistance of friends and relatives , who engaged to furnish temporarily the requisite funds , he was enabled , soon after Easter , 1826 , to enrol his name on the books of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
V While in residence at Cambridge , Pritchard was fortunate in having the assistance of Charles Jeffreys as his private tutor\#151 ; an excellent mathematician , and Second Wrangler in Airy 's year , 1823 .
He , from the first , took a good position in the college examinations , and always secured the second place in each year .
The practical result of this success was of the highest importance to him , as the accumulation of exhibitions was ultimately sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses of his college education .
In the Mathematical Tripos of 1830 , Pritchard attained the high position of Fourth Wrangler .
He was himself fully satisfied with the result , though it was the general opinion of the college tutors who had watched his career that he had hardly done himself full justice in the examination .
His position in the Tripos was , however , sufficient to secure for him a limited number of private pupils , without interfering with his classical studies , to which he now devoted most of his time , as he was unwilling to risk the Fellowship examination , then almost wholly classical .
In March , 1832 , he attained the height of his ambition , by being elected a Fellow of his college .
Pupils now flocked to him in superabundance , and appearances seemed to indicate that he was destined to settle down as a resident Fellow , and take an active share in the public tuition of his college .
But other circumstances soon arose , preventing any arrangement of this kind .
Some scholastic employment having been offered to him in connexion with a new proprietary school in London , he determined to forego his University prospects , and to seek his fate in the larger world of the metropolis .
Writing more than fifty years afterwards , on referring to this important crisis in his life , he remarked that " looking back now through the vista of half a century , I cannot wholly satisfy my mind as to all the motives which impelled me , at so early a period of a successful academical career , to relinquish the natural hopes and ambitions which must have legitimately presented themselves .
It might have been impatience .
But still , looking back through the busy occupations of many subsequent years , I am inclined to doubt if I could have occupied them more advantageously in any other role of life than that in which I have actually engaged .
" When still an undergraduate , Pritchard 's originality of thought often induced him to consider other mathematical questions than those required in the college examinations .
He was especially interested with certain trigonometrical relations brought to light by the mathematician Poinsot , which led him to examine other writings of the same author , more particularly his treatise on the ' Theory of Statical Couples .
' Pritchard became quite enamoured with the singular power and wide application of the theory , and also with the clear light that Poinsot had thrown on much that had hitherto been obscure in the theory of mechanics .
He has said with enthusiasm:\#151 ; vi " I could not rest until I had simplified the subject and brought my joy and my light within the ken of others .
" His interest in Poinsot 's work resulted in the publication of a little treatise on the \#163 ; Theory of Statical Couples , ' which was sufficiently popular to ran through two editions , and to be adopted in the general University teaching .
About the same time he contributed to the Cambridge Philosophical Society a paper on " The Figure of the Earth , " consisting of a simplification of the final propositions in the mathematical treatment of the Earth , considered as heterogeneous .
In 1833 Pritchard accepted the post of Head Master of a new proprietary school at Stockwell\#151 ; one of those founded about that time in the suburbs of London under the auspices of King 's College .
The tenure of this office was , however , in no way an agreeable one , for , from the date of his appointment , his relations with a minority of the Committee were unfortunate .
The school flourished numerically , notwithstanding the ceaseless interference and sundry small annoyances to which he was subjected .
As time went on , these personal differences increased , until they became so unbearable to Pritchard that in June , 1834 , he resigned his office , and had serious thoughts of returning once more to the more peaceful occupation of a University life .
But , owing to the prospect of an early marriage , by which his Fellowship would be vacated , and finding that some of the leading men in Clapham , and also many of the parents of his pupils , had expressed a strong desire for the establishment of a new school under better and more liberal regulations , he , after some consideration , consented to superintend such an institution .
On this basis the well-known Clapham Grammar School was founded in August , 1834 .
In this school Pi'itchard continued to be the central and controlling spirit during the following twenty-eight years , labouring in the cause of high middle-class education with untiring energy and success , by which he obtained very rapidly a high reputation as a successful teacher .
The many schemes he devised during this period for the thorough training of his numerous pupils have been highly appreciated .
Some of them have been adopted with advantage in other schools .
In an article contained in the ' Nineteenth Century ' for March , 1884 , the Dean of Westminster , Dr. Bradley , who received his early education at Stockwell , and afterwards at Clapham , bears personal testimony to the enlarged and generous views of his old teacher .
The article gives a most interesting description of the early days of the school , and of the practical methods employed by Pritchard to interest the boys in their studies :\#151 ; " He , first of all , at a time when the real study of comparative philology was almost unknown in England , gave us some glimpses into what I may call the science of language ; he taught us to try to group together facts for ourselves , and to form laws from what we observed and met .
And lie did more , lie taught us something at the same time of the beauty and charm of literature , old and new .
But this was not all ; no single week passed in which we did not receive and eagerly look forward to at least one lesson in natural science .
Heat , elementary hydrostatics , mechanics , optics , electricity , and , above all , chemistry\#151 ; to something of the elements of all these we were introduced in turn .
Meantime we were led through stage after stage of the severe discipline of mathematical study .
I felt then , as I feel now , that even the study of mathematics was coloured with the warm glow of the activity and originality of the teacher 's mind .
" The reputation of the Clapham Grammar School was sufficient to attract pupils from all parts of the kingdom .
One important feature was the interesting fact that among them might be found the sons of distinguished men at the head of the several branches of science , and of the liberal professions .
The names of Airy , Barry , Darwin , Gassiot , Grove , Hamilton , Herschel , Maurice , and others , became familiar in the roll-call .
For reasons possessing only a persoual interest , Pritchard brought his Clapham life rather suddenly to a close in the year 1862 , when he transferred all his interests in the school to Dr. Alfred Wrigley , one of the Professors at Addiscombe .
He then retired , with his family , to Freshwater , Isle of Wight , where he hoped to enjoy a few years ' repose , intending afterwards to apply himself to the permanent duties of some pastoral charge .
Pritchard was of far too active a mind to remain long in retirement .
For some time his ambition seems to have been directed to some preferment in the Church , but his hopes were doomed to disappointment .
He always considered himself to be a divine in mind and heart , though , by the force of circumstances , he became first a schoolmaster and then a professional astronomer .
It has been stated by one of his late assistants that , " so anxious was he for a cure of souls , that he applied to one of his old pupils , who was then a Bishop , and asked for a living of only \#163 ; 100 a year .
He was refused , and felt the refusal keenly .
" In some form or other he was , however , frequently engaged in clerical work during his seven or eight years of retreat .
On several occasions he was invited to preach before the British Association at the annual meetings , first at Nottingham in 1866 , and afterwards at Dundee in 1867 , Norwich in 1868 , Exeter in 1869 , and Bristol in 1876 .
He also delivered addresses , generally on the harmony of the Bible and science , at various Church Congresses .
Vice-Chancellor Page Wood , afterwards Lord Chancellor Hatherley , to whom Pritchard alludes as " the friend of his life , " was much impressed with the treatment of the subject in the Nottingham sermon , and was induced to write a short treatise on the ' Continuity of the Holy Scriptures , ' based on the same line of argument adopted by Pritchard .
This celebrated sermon led to his appointment as Hulsean Lecturer viii at Cambridge in 1867 .
He was one of the Select Preachers at Cambridge in 1869 , and at Oxford in 1876 and 1877 .
Pritchard 's occupations during his residence at Freshwater were not by any means confined to clerical duty , as for some time before and after he left Clapham he felt much personal interest in the affairs of the Royal Astronomical Society , and in astronomical researches generally .
The first paper contributed by him to the Society , bearing upon the practical part of astronomy , is contained in the ' Monthly Notices ' for January 14 , 1853 , giving an account of some experiments towards increasing facility and certainty in the use of mercury in observations by reflexion , and for the adjustments of astronomical instruments .
In 1856 he became a member of the Council , and shortly afterwards read a paper , the result of considerable calculation , on " The Conjunctions of the planets Jupiter and Saturn in the years B.c. 7 , b.C. 66 , and a.d. 54 .
" This memoir was written to correct an astronomical error in which Ideler and others had fallen , while attempting to establish the date of the true Annus Domini .
Astronomy , indeed , was not neglected at Clapham , for an observatory , furnished with an equatorial and a transit instrument , was actually added to the other institutions of the school , and Pritchard built another observatory for his private use at Freshwater .
This long personal interest in astronomical research as an amateur led to his appointment , in 1862 , to the responsible post of Honorary Secretary of the Royal Astronomical Society , and , subsequently , to that of President for two years , 1866\#151 ; 1868 .
His zeal for the interests of this Society and the promotion of astronomy was so great that , though resident in the Isle of Wight , he made it his duty to be present at most of its meetings .
It is a pleasing record of scientific devotion to state that , during his two years ' tenure of the Presidency , he was able to preside over the ordinary meetings fourteen out of a possible sixteen times .
His addresses delivered at the anniversary meetings of the Society , on presenting the Hold Medal to the medallists of 1867 and 1868 , are not only models of elegance of language , but they are also masterly expositions of both the new and old astronomy , in connexion with those sections of the science for which the Medals were respectively awarded : that of 1867 to Huggins and Miller for their joint researches in astronomical physics ; and that of 1868 to the great French astronomer he Aerrier for his sublime mathematical investigations on the planetary theories , and the construction of new tables of the motions of Mercury , Venus , the Barth , and Mars in their orbits .
By the death of Professor Donkin in November , 1869 , the Savilian Professorship of Astronomy at Oxford became vacant .
Candidates from all parts of the world were eligible , and the appointment of a new Professor was at that time in the hands of thirteen trustees , ineluding Pritchard 's friend , Lord Chancellor Hatherley .
No one knew more than .
Sir John Hersohel of the qualifications of Pritchard to fulfil the required conditions necessary for giving sound instruction on theoretical and practical astronomy .
It was , therefore , by Sir John 's urgent recommendation , together with the advice of other leading Fellows of the Royal Astronomical Society , that the Lord Chancellor was prevailed upon to exercise his great influence in his favour .
No doubt this high patronage had its value , for at a meeting of the trustees , held eai'ly in 1870 , he had the good fortune to be elected Savilian Professor of Astronomy .
Now comes a remarkable example of the intellectual strength and energy of Pritchard 's character .
At the date of his appointment he had reached the age of sixty-two , and , at the same time , had had very little personal experience of the practical work required in a large observatory .
Most people of his age and habits , after having passed a busy life , are naturally looking forward to some relief from their ordinary daily occupations ; or , at any rate , they are generally desirous to maintain , in any new official position , some conservatism of ideas and methods .
But this was in no way the case with Professor Pritchard , who at once resolved that his Professorship was to be no sinecure for him ; but that , on the contrary , he felt sure that some instrumental means would be found to enable him to contribute his share towards the progress of some of the most delicate problems in astronomical physics .
To effect this , however , a new University Observatory would be required , and how this could be accomplished was for some time the principal subject that occupied his thoughts .
In due time he laid his proposition before the governing authorities of the University , requesting that the Savilian Professor should be provided with astronomical instruments adequate to the instruction of his class and for the purposes of original research .
The formal application was made to Convocation in March , 1873 , when a liberal sum of money was granted , sufficient for the purchase of a refracting telescope of 12\#163 ; inches aperture , and for erecting a suitable building to contain it .
This grant was soon afterwards supplemented by Dr. Warren De La Rue 's munificent gift of his 13-inch reflecting telescope , and many other valuable astronomical instruments , formerly belonging to his private observatory at Cranford .
Thus , before the end of 1875 , the University Observatory was completed , fully equipped and ready for active work for the promotion of the study of practical and philosophical astronomy .
It is not possible to find space in this notice for an adequate description of the numerous contributions to astronomical physics emanating from the labours of Professor Pritchard and his two assistants .
With instruments of the most modern construction , they have been able to accomplish much that is new in some of the most X delicate brandies of astronomical observation , without intrenching on the regular work of other official observatories .
The results have been mostly printed in the ' Memoirs ' and 'Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society , ' or in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' to which reference should be made for the details of the separate researches .
Of the fifty papers chiefly contributed to these Societies since 1870 , it will suffice , here , to give the titles only of a few of the .
most important : " On the Moon 's Photographic Diameter , and on the Applicability of Celestial Photography to accurate Measurement " ; " On a simple and practicable Method of measuring the Relative apparent Brightnesses or Magnitudes of the Stars with considerable accuracy " ; " On certain Deviations from the Law of Apertures in relation to Stellar Photometry , and on the Applicability of a Glass Wedge to the Determination of the Magnitudes of Coloured Stars " ; " On the Parallax of 61 Cygni , as obtained by the aid of Photography " ; " Photometric Determination of the Relative Brightness of the Brighter Stars North of the Equator " ; " Urano-metria Nova Oxoniensis , " containing the relative magnitudes of 2,784 stars , determined by the wedge-photometer ; " On the Relative Proper Motions of 40 Stars in the Pleiades " ; " On the Capacities , in respect of Light and Photographic Action , of two Silver on Glass Mirrors of different Focal Lengths " ; " Determination of the Parallax of 30 Stars , chiefly of the Second Magnitude , by the Photographic Method , " \amp ; c. Professor Pritchard also undertook a share of the observations for the new International Photographic Chart of the Heavens .
The special zone of six degrees between 31 ' and 25 ' N. declination has been allotted to the Oxford University Observatory , and , at the time of his death , some progress in the work had been made .
In addition to the astronomical researches carried on under Professor Pritchard 's direction , some most excellent papers and treatises of a popular nature were written by him from time to time .
Rot the least interesting are the three eloges contributed to the ' Annual Reports of the Royal Astronomical Society ' for 1865,1866 , and 1872 , on the deaths of F. G. W. Struve , Director of the Pulkowa Observatory , Sir W. Rowan Hamilton , and Sir John F. W. Herschel .
He wrote a series of popular articles on astronomy for ' Good Words , ' and was the author of " The Star of the Magi " in the ' Biblical Dictionary , and of several articles in the ninth edition of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica .
' He also collected some of his miscellaneous writings into a volume entitled ' Occasional Thoughts of an Astronomer on Nature and Revelation .
' His Savilian Lectures , both on theoretical and practical astronomy , were usually well attended , especially by intending candidates for mathematical honours .
Owing to constant and increasing applicaxi tions of University students for practical instruction , he provided a subsidiary observatory on the roof of the lecture room for their special use .
Recently he erected a more convenient building , which he furnished with some excellent instruments .
Every accommodation was tbus provided for the instruction of the students , without in any way interfering with the larger instruments reserved solely for research .
Professor Pritchard proceeded to the degree of M.A. ( Cantab .
) in 1833 , M.A. by decree ( Oxon .
) in 1870 , and B.D. and D.D. in 1880 .
He was ordained Deacon in 1833 , and Priest in 1834 .
On taking up his residence at Oxford , he attached himself to Hew College , of which , as Savilian Professor of Astronomy , he became a Fellow in 1883 .
He was elected , in 1886 , an Honorary Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge\#151 ; an honour he greatly esteemed .
He was a Fellow of the Royal Society for more than half a century , having been elected so long ago as February 6 , 1840 .
He served on the Council two years , from November , 1885 to 1887 , and at the Anniversary Meeting held on November 30,1892 , he was presented with one of the Royal Medals for his successful labours on photometry and stellar parallax .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society on April 13 , 1849 , and was a continuous member of the Council from 1856 to 1877 , and from 1883 to 1887 .
In 1886 he was awarded the Gold Medal of that Society for his ' Photometric Researches .
' He was also a Fellow of the Geological Society and the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
As Savilian Professor of Astronomy , he was an ex-officio member of the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
The great age to which Professor Pritchard attained never interfered with his determination to make the University Observatory a first class institution .
His mental faculties were unclouded to the end ; he was always able to keep abreast with the newest problems in the physics of astronomy , and it was a frequent and pleasing sight to witness the venerable astronomer enter into the depths of a technical discussion , with all the interest and energy of youth .
In the midst of his scientific and University career , he did not , however , forget the busy time he had passed with his pupils in his old school at Clapham .
In 1886 , soon after he had received both scientific and college honours , it was a great joy to him to receive an invitation to a complimentary banquet at the Albion , Aldersgate Street , from his " Old Boys , " among whom grisly beards and grey heads predominated .
An interesting result of this social meeting of his old pupils , presided over by the Dean of Westminster , was a small volume , written by him for private distribution , full of pleasing reminiscences of his former school life .
Professor Pritchard was twice married :\#151 ; ( 1 ) at Lambeth , on December 18 , 1834 , to Emily , fifth daughter of J. Newton , Esq. ; and Xll ( 2 ) at St. Peter 's , Croydon , on August 10 , 1858 , to Rosalind , daughter of Alexander Campbell , Esq. , of Tunbridge Wells .
His second wife predeceased him about a year .
During the later years of his life , though naturally feeling the increasing weakness of old age , his health continued fairly good almost to the end , while the daily work of the Observatory never ceased to occupy his thoughts .
He was fond of botany , and was a great lover of floriculture of the highest order .
At one time he was supposed to possess one of the best collections of ferns in England .
This love of flowers and plants continued as a pleasant recreation .
It was only a week before be passed away that he was pointing out to a friend , with conscious pride , the beauty of the garden he had created around the Observatory .
His death took place on the morning of Sunday , May 28 , 1893 , in the eighty-sixth year of his age ; and on the following Wednesday afternoon his remains were laid to rest in Holywell Cemetery , Oxford .
E. D. Henry Francis Blanford was born June 3 , 1834 , in Bouverie Street , Whitefriars , London , where his father , William Blanford , carried on a manufacture of gilt mouldings for decorative purposes , picture frames , \amp ; c. , in premises now converted into the printing offices of the ' Daily Hews ' newspaper .
The subject of the present memoir received his early education at schools in Brighton and Brussels , and after studying for some time at the School of Design , first in Somerset House , then in Marlborough House , he entered the Royal School of Mines , in Jermyn Street , at its commencement in 1851 .
At the School of Min , es , he took the first place of the year , and at the conclusion of the first year 's term , received the only prize then offered , the Duke of Cornwall 's Scholarship .
After leaving the school , he passed a year in studying mining at the Bergakademie of Freiberg , and another year , part of which he employed in translating v. Kobell 's book on the blowpipe , his first published work , in London .
In 1855 , Mr. Blanford and his brother , also a School of Mines student , received appointments on the staff of the Geological Survey of India , under the late Dr. T. Oldham , and they " arrived in Calcutta at the end of September .
Shortly after , the'two brothers and Mr. W. Theobald , another member of the staff , were despatched to Orissa , to report upon a coal-field around Talchir , in the wild tract of the Tributary Mehals .
Of this coal-field nothing except the existence of coal was known at the time ; the whole of the geology had to be made out from the examination of the ground , the greater part of which was covered with forest .
It was under these circumstances that , mainly through the observations of Mr. H. F. Blanford , the first steps were taken towards the classification of the remarkable series Xlll of deposits associated with the Indian coal-bearing beds , by the separation of the underlying or Talchir division , and of an overlying group , from the true coal measures , subsequently called , by Dr. Oldham , the Damuda beds .
For some time Mr. H. F. Blanford was engaged in Calcutta , in charge of the Survey Office , and in palaeontological work in the museum , but in 1857 he was placed at the head of a large survey party that was despatched to Madras , and he was chiefly engaged for the next three or four years in examining the cretaceous beds near Trichinopaly and Pondicherry , some fossils from which , described by Professor E. Forbes , Sir P. Egerton and Mons. A. d'Orbigny , had attracted much attention .
The stratigraphy and the distinction of the different divisions in the field were founded on palaeontological evidence , and the classification established by Mr. Blanford was fully confirmed by Dr. Stoliczka 's subsequent exhaustive description of the fauna .
A commencement of this description was made by Mr. Blanford himself , who , before he left the Indian Geological Survey in 1862 , published an account of the Nautilidae and Belemni-tidee in the * Palaeontologia Indica .
' The geology of the area was described by him in the Memoirs of the Survey , to which he also contributed an account of the Nilgiri Hills .
Mr. Blanford 's retirement from the survey was due to various causes , amongst which was the injury to his health produced by the exposure to the climate entailed by geological surveying .
Soon after leaving India he was offered the Science Professorship in the Presidency College , Calcutta , by the late Mr. W. Atkinson , at that time Director of Public Instruction in Bengal .
This appointment Mr. Blanford accepted , and after spending some months in Europe to recruit his health , he joined the staff of the Bengal Educational Department towards the end of 1862 .
He became , in 1864 , one of the hon .
secretaries of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , and about the same time , partly in consequence of his duties as secretary , his attention was directed to meteorology.* On October 5th , 1864 , Calcutta was visited by one of the most destructive cyclones on record ; a storm-wave rushed up the Hooghly River , and flooded the neighbouring low lands ; upwards of 40,000 human beings were drowned , and a great part of the shipping in the river was wrecked .
This cyclone was followed within a few weeks by another , which passed over Masulipatam , and the storm-wave again caused the loss of about 30,000 lives .
These startling disasters naturally aroused the attention of the Indian Government and the public generally to the necessity of systematic meteorological observations , and to the im* The account of Mr. Blanford 's meteorological work is by Mr. J. Eliot , his successor as Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India .
XIV portance of establishing a proper system of storm-warnings for the protection of the ports of India , and especially Calcutta .
Up to the date mentioned almost the only trustworthy records of meteorological observations in India were those which had been kept for several years at the observatories of Madras and Bombay , and at the Surveyor-General 's office in Calcutta .
It is true that observations were also taken at a number of hospitals and dispensaries throughout India ; but the instruments bad not been verified , the observers were untrained , and there was no proper supervision ; moreover no care had been taken to preserve the records .
Mr. H. Piddington had collected and published in the 'Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , ' details of 23 different cyclones in the Indian and Chinese Seas , a work of the greatest interest and value , but the data , which were naturally imperfect , whilst adding greatly to the knowledge of these storms , and whilst sufficing to enable Mr. Piddington to frame practical directions for the guidance of sailors during such storms in the India seas , had not led to a full understanding of the disturbances , or of their origin .
At the instance of General ( then Colonel ) R. Strachey , who , in 1857 , called the attention of the Asiatic Society to the uselessness of the desultory attempts that had up to that time been made to acquire a knowledge of Indian meteorology , and to the urgent need of some controlling authority capable of directing and utilising the work of observers in India , a committee was formed which , after some unsuccessful attempts at acting as a controlling power , drew up , in 1862 , a report in which the establishment of a small centralized system by the Government was recommended .
At the request of the Government , the Committee , after some delay , drew up a scheme for carrying out the system recommended .
This was not submitted to the Government till 1865 , after the occurrence of the Calcutta and Masulipatam cyclones .
Meantime the Indian Government had been urged by the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal to establish a system of storm warnings , and the Secretary of State , about the same time , recommended the record of meteorological data in connection with the suggestions and requirements of the Sanitary Commission .
To the latter body the whole question of meteorological enquiry in India was referred , and in accordance with their recommendations , provincial meteorological systems were established in the Punjab and North-West Provinces in 1865 , in Madras in 1866 , and in Bengal in 1867 .
These systems were , however , quite independent of each other , and the opportunity of establishing a controlling authority , so emphatically urged by General Strachey and the Calcutta Committee , was postponed for several years .
An account of the Calcutta cyclone of 1864 was drawn up by Colonel Gastrell and Mr. Blanford , and was published by order of the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal in 1866 .
It gave a very full description of all the more important features of that cyclone , and , considering the unsatisfactory character of a large portion of the data , is remarkably complete .
The conclusions based on the data and on the investigations of Piddington show a thoroughly clear grasp of the subject , and are , in almost every respect , in agreement with the results of later investigation on storm genesis and motion in India .
Soon after the Calcutta cyclone , at the instance of the Lieutenant-Governor , a Committee , of which Mr. Blanford was the secretary , was appointed to arrange a system of storm-warnings for the port of Calcutta .
Observatories were established at a number of coast stations , and the observations made were telegraphed to Calcutta daily .
The Bengal Provincial Meteorological Department was founded in 1867 for the combination of general meteorological observations with the continuation of this system of storm-warnings , and Mr. Blanford became Meteorological Reporter for Bengal , still retaining his Professorship , and lecturing , chiefly on chemistry and physics , in the Presidency College .
The new Meteorological Department of Bengal at once took a very high position , and became known for the accuracy of its data and the thoroughness of its work , and the annual reports on the meteorology of Bengal , prepared by Mr. Blanford , increased in importance from year to year .
He also , during the eight years that he held the post , published a series of meteorological papers in the ' Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
' Of these the most important were " On certain protracted irregularities of Atmospheric Pressure in Bengal in relation to the Monsoon Rainfall " ( ' Jour .
As .
Soc. Bengal , ' vol. 39 , Part 2 , p. 123 ) ; " On the Normal Rainfall of Bengal " ( t.c. , p. 243 ) ; and " On some recent Evidence of the Variation of the Sun 's Heat " ( ' J.A.S.B. , ' vol. 44 , Part 2 , p. 21 ) .
The first of these papers directed attention to one of the more important features of Indian meteorology , and , probably , of tropical meteorology in general , the frequent persistency of abnormal variations of pressure over large areas in India for periods varying in length from a few months to two or three years , and the connexion between such prolonged abnormal features and large modifications in the distribution of rainfall .
This was a subject which occupied much of Mr. Blanford 's thoughts , and it is increasing in importance in connexion with the forecasting of the general character of the monsoon rains , now performed by the Indian Meteorological Department .
During the same period he contributed two papers , one " On the Origin of a Cyclone " ( 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 17 , 1869 , p. 472 ) , the other on " The Winds of Northern India " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 166 , p. 563 ) , to the Royal Society .
In the second paper he utilised the data collected by the Meteorological Departments of Bengal , the North-Western Provinces , and the Punjab , in order to describe the xvi chief features of the normal air-currents over Northern India , and to trace out their origin and causes , so far as they could be discovered , in the local physical changes of the atmosphere .
The broad features were skilfully worked out , and the relations of the north-east and south-west monsoon currents to each other , and to the temperature and other conditions of India , clearly shown .
This paper was particularly interesting .
Not only was it the first attempt to discuss this important question by the aid of fairly accurate data , but it was also the first essay on Indian meteorology as a whole , and the subject was for the first time treated as a problem of dynamic meteorology , and recent extensions of knowledge in the physical sciences utilised in the discussion of the various problems .
Shortly after the publication of this important paper the Government of India came to the conclusion that the provincial system without a central controlling authority was unsatisfactory and ineffective , and it was determined to constitute a centralised department on the lines laid down as essential by General Strachey some years previously .
Mr. Blanford was , in 1874 , inconsequence of this change of system , transferred from the Educational Staff of Bengal , and appointed head of the new^department .
He was called upon , at the time of his appointment , to prepare a scheme for the reorganisation of the provincial meteorological systems and their consolidation into an imperial system , with himself , the Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India , as central controlling authority .
In the scheme drawn up , Mr. Blanford sketched first the general principles on which meteorological work should be carried out in India , and also made proposals for the extension of the work of observation and for the centralisation of the Department , in order to secure uniformity of methods and tabulation of the results .
He also proposed the commencement of special series of observations to throw light on the regular diurnal and annual meteorological changes in India .
The scheme was approved in its entirety , and brought into operation in the year 1875 .
It has stood the test of time thoroughly , and the Department has developed during the eighteen years of its existence in the directions fully anticipated by Mr. Blanford .
One of the first important labours of the Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India was to write the ' Indian Meteorologist 's Vade Mecum .
' This was primarily intended to inform the observers at Indian observatories what and how they were to observe , in order that their observations might be accurate and useful .
This portion of the work forms Part I of the ' Vade Mecum .
' In order to arouse an intelligent interest in their work , Mr. Blanford , in Part IT , gave an interesting account of all the more important features of Indian meteorology so far as then known , together with explanations based on the data and ideas of recent advances iu physical science .
The ' Vade Mecum ' at XVII once became a useful book of reference for Indian observers , and was practically the first treatise which placed the ideas of the modem school of dynamical meteorology in an easily accessible form before ordinary readers .
It was for many years the best treatise on modern meteorology , and was the forerunner of the numerous treatises on the science which have been published in the United States , Germany , and England .
Mr. Blanford was Meteorological Reporter to the Government of India from 1874 to 1889 , but during the last two years he was on furlough .
During this period he wrote a number of short and valuable papers for the Asiatic Society 's Journal , of which the following were the most important : " On the High Atmospheric Pressure of 1876-78 in Asia and Australia , in relation to the Sun Spot Cycle " ( ' Jour .
As .
Soc. Bengal , ' vol. 49 , Part 2 , p. 70 ; 1880 ) ; " On the Relations of Cloud and Rainfall to Temperature in India , and on the opposite Variations of Density in the Higher and Lower Atmospheric Strata " ( 'J.A.S.B .
, 'vol .
50 , Part 2 , p. 69 ; 1881 ) ; " The Theory of the Winter Rains of Northern India " ( ' J.A.S.B. , ' vol. 53 , Part 2 , p. 1 ; 1884 ) , and a series of papers on the " Diurnal Oscillation of the Barometer .
" During the same period he wrote a very important short paper for the Royal Society " On the Connection of the Himalaya Snowfall with Dry Winds and Seasons of Drought in India " ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' ' vol. 37 , 1884 , p. 3 ) .
In this he dealt with a remarkable feature of Indian meteorology , viz. , the effect of abnormally heavy snowfall in the Himalayan area in modifying the pressure and temperature conditions over Northern India during the hot weather , and hence the distribution of rainfall during the following south-west monsoon .
He was the first to realise fully the importance in Indian meteorology of this factor which has become the basis for the seasonal forecasts now issued by the Indian Meteorological Department .
His most important work at this time was undoubtedly the series of annual reports on the meteorology of India ( from 1876 to 1885 ) that he wrote , and the papers he contributed to the 4 Indian Meteorological Memoirs , ' which publication he initiated shortly after the establishment of the Indian Meteorological Department .
The subjects of these papers show how largely his mind was occupied with the regular diurnal and annual meteorological changes in India .
He considered a full knowledge of these matters of primary importance in the present stage of our knowledge , and that their solution would throw valuable light on some of the most important abnormal features of Indian meteorology and might furnish a key for the explanation of these features .
His last and most important work of investigation was the monograph on 44 The Rainfall of India " ( 4 Indian Meteorological Memoirs , ' VOL. LIV .
c xvm vol. 3 ) .
It was the outcome of the labour of several years .
All the available data were obtained and sifted to separate the doubtful from the trustworthy .
The result of this investigation was to give an accurate knowledge of all the broader features of the distribution of the rainfall of India , and of the chief causes or factors ( physical and topographical ) determining the law of its distribution .
' After he retired on pension in 1889 he continued to devote himself with unwearied zeal amidst failing health to the discussion of his favourite meteorological problems .
He undertook the discussion of the series of hourly observations taken at about twenty-five stations in India from 1876 to 1888 .
He completed the discussion of those taken at Sibsagar , Dhubri , Goalpara , Hazaribagh , Patna , Roorkee , and Allahabad , but was obliged to give up the work in the beginning of 1892 .
It was his intention to have prepared separate statements and brief discussions of the results for each station , and to have followed this up with a general discussion of the whole of the results , and it is greatly to be regretted in the interests of meteorological science that he was not spared to complete this work on a subject to which he had devoted especial attention , and which he was especially qualified to investigate .
He presented the chief results of his investigations and those of his co-workers in India to the English public in 1889 , shortly before his death , in his ' Climates and Weather of India .
' It is a valuable work of local climatology , and presents all the more important results of the work of the Meteorological Department during his regime in an interesting form for English readers .
It will thus be seen that his life was one of unwearied activity .
His powers of organisation were shown by the steady development of the department which he established and initiated .
He was a patient and vigorous worker , and the results of his labours are shown as much by the numerous short suggestive papers he contributed to ^ various Societies , \amp ; c. , as by his larger monograph ' On the Rainfall of India , ' and the Annual Reports on the Meteorology of India .
His name will be associated with the commencement and development of scientific meteorology in India , and the rapid growth of the department under him is the best proof of his special qualifications as a meteorologist and of his zeal and untiring energy .
European meteorologists recognised almost from the first the value of the work done by the department under him ; it was his constant aim to place his department upon as high a level for scientific and practical work in meteorology as similar departments in Europe and America , and it is hardly too much to say that he fully succeeded .
After he became engaged in the work of Indian meteorology , Mr. Blanford 's time was almost entirely occupied with that subject , although he by no means lost his interest in geology and zoology .
XIX His only important contribution to Indian geology after he left the Indian Survey , was a paper published by the Geological Society in 1875 , ' On the Age and Correlation of the Plant-bearing Series of India and the former existence of an Indo-Oceanic Continent .
' He also contributed a few short papers to Indian scientific societies on land and fresh-water mollusca and on ferns .
He was the author of two treatises on the geography of India , one of which has now for many years been used as a text-book in Indian schools and colleges , and the other , a recent publication , forms one of Macmillan 's geographical series .
Mr. Blanford married , in 1867 , the daughter of Mr. G. F. Cockburn , of the Bengal Civil Service , and leaves a widow , one son , an officer in the Royal Artillery , and three daughters .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1880 , and was President of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1884-85 .
His health had been precarious for some time before he retired from the Indian Service , and he died of cancer at Folkestone , where he had resided after his return to England , on the 23rd January of the present year .
W. T. B. Dr. William Charles Henry was born in Manchester , March 31 , 1804 .
His father and grandfather were both Fellows of this Society , and both distinguished chemists .
He was educated at various schools , and matriculated at Edinburgh University in November , 1824 .
In 1827 he graduated M.D. , the subject of his graduation thesis being " De Tuberculorum Origin , " and in the following winter studied in the Paris hospitals , attending as well the lectures at the Sorbonne .
From 1828 to 1835 he was physician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary , but resigned this post in order to continue his chemical studies .
He studied at Berlin and Giessen , and afterwards returned to Manchester .
Leaving Manchester about 1842 , he took up his residence at Ledbury and remained there until his death on January 7 , 1892 .
Dr. Henry was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1834 ; he was also a Fellow of the Chemical and Geological Societies , and a Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Turin .
He was the author of papers " On the Relation existing between Nerve and Muscle " ( ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' 1831 , p. 64 ) , " On the Physiology of the Nervous System " ( ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' 1833 ) , " On the Atomic Constitution of Elastic Fluids " ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1834 ) , " On the Action of Metals in determining Gaseous Combination " ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1835 ) , " On Gaseous Interference " ( ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' 1836 ) , and was the author of " Memoirs of the Life and Scientific Researches of John Dalton " ( Cavendish Society , 1854 ) , Dalton having been one of his most intimate friends .
M. F. VOL. LIV .
d

