65 On the Physical Properties of Gold Leaf at High Temperatures .
By J. C. Chapman and H. L. Porter , Wheatstone Laboratory , King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. H. A. Wilson , F.R.S. Received July 14 , 1909 .
) In a paper by Prof. T. Turner* some experiments were described which show that gold leaf becomes transparent when heated in contact with glass .
The following experiments , suggested by Prof. H. A. Wilson , were undertaken to see if this effect takes place when the gold leaf is heated by itself .
The apparatus in which the leaf was heated consisted of a double walled fused quartz crucible .
The outside of the crucible was 6 cm .
deep and 5 cm .
, wide , and the inner chamber was 4*5 cm .
deep and 3*5 cm .
wide .
Both chambers were fitted with lids .
Inside the inner chamber , as near to the leaf as possible , a thermocouple , composed of platinum and nickel wires , was placed .
The other ends of the couple dipped into mercury cups immersed in melting ice , from which wires led through a reversing key to a dead-beat galvanometer , with lamp and scale , a resistance of 800 ohms being included in the circuit .
In the first experiment the gold leaf was stuck all round the edges to a platinum loop by means of thin lacquer .
The loop was then placed in the inner chamber and the crucible was heated with a large Bunsen flame .
No increase in transparency took place , but as heating continued it was noticed that the gold leaf was becoming more taut , and eventually the tension became so great that the leaf tore in places .
The gold leaf was then removed and examined microscopically , when it was seen that the gold had lost its polished appearance and its structure appeared to be decidedly more granular .
The above shows that at a certain temperature gold leaf , instead of elongating , contracts .
The following experiment was then performed to see if any relation existed between the temperature at which the elongation gave way to contraction and the tension in the leaf .
For this purpose a small rectangular piece of gold leaf was cut ( about 1*5 cm .
long , 1 cm .
broad ) .
This leaf was suspended by fixing its upper edge lengthwise to a horizontal platinum wire which could be laid across the top of the inner crucible , yet allowing , at the same time , the lid to be replaced .
To the bottom of the leaf a small weight , in the form of a platinum bar , was stuck by means of a thin lacquer .
Latterly the platinum bar was discarded in favour of pieces of aluminium foil which were much * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' Ser. A , vol. 81 , pp. 301\#151 ; 310 , November 9 , 1908 .
VOL. LXXXI1I.\#151 ; A. F 66 Messrs. Chapman and Porter .
On the Physical [ July 14 , more easily handled .
The breadth of the strip was in each case the same as that of the leaf .
The leaf was then placed in the crucible , and the top of the aluminium bar , which was illuminated by a Nernst lamp , was observed with a microscope fitted with a scale in the eyepiece .
On steadily raising the temperature a gradual increase of length of the gold leaf took place .
Later this elongation ceased , and for some time the length was constant .
Finally ( the temperature still rising ) a rapid contraction of the leaf commenced , the contraction being much greater than the initial elongation .
The following curve shows the relation between the temperature and the length of the leaf:\#151 ; Temperature -* Curve I.\#151 ; These experiments were repeated many times , using a series of different weights , the largest weight being the greatest the leaf could stand without tearing .
The relation between the weight applied per unit breadth of leaf and the galvanometer deflection at which elongation gave way to contraction is given below\#151 ; Weight per unit breadth of leaf .
Deflection ( giving temperature ) .
gramme .
0 *0066 20-6 0 *0108 20-75 0 *0162 20-6 0 *0174 20-5 0 *0215 20-5 0 *0267 20-7 1909 .
] Properties of Gold Leaf at High Temperatures .
67 It will be seen that within the range of weights used the deflection observed was constant within the limits of error .
This indicates that the temperature at which the leaf contracts is independent of the tension in the leaf .
The thermocouple was calibrated by immersing the junction in steam , boiling aniline vapour , boiling mercury vapour , and molten zinc .
This gave the temperatures 100 ' C. , 184 ' C. , 356 ' C. , and 415 ' C. A fifth point was obtained by having a bead of potassium nitrate inside the crucible and observing the temperature at which it melted .
This gave 336 ' C. From the results the curve below was obtained .
Curve II .
Curve II.\#151 ; The temperature corresponding to the mean deflection 20-6 is 340 ' C. At this temperature the rapid contraction commenced .
Very fine gold wire , 1/ 1000-inch in diameter , was tried in place of the leaf , the least weight required to stretch the wire being used as load .
On heating up to 500 ' C. no contraction took place , the wire still continuing to increase in length .
68 Physical Properties of Gold Leaf at High Temperatures .
The fact that the leaf contracts at a certain temperature probably explains the increase in transparency when it is heated on glass , for on the glass , when the leaf contracts , it will be torn into a great number of small pieces between which the light will get through .
To investigate this a portion of gold leaf was fixed on to a piece of glass of size suitable for placing in the inner crucible .
The leaf was then maintained at a few degrees below 340 ' C. for about an hour .
It was then removed , and on examination found not to have altered .
It was then replaced in the crucible and heated to a few degrees above 340 ' C. In a very short time it began to become transparent , and the light transmitted ceased to be green .
Microscopic examination showed that the leaf itself was still opaque , but had aggregated , leaving clear spaces , an effect which was observed by Prof. Turner .
This clearly showed that the increase in transparency was very closely related to the contraction , and explained why no increase in transparency took place when the leaf was heated by itself and not in contact with glass .
The fact that the gold leaf contracts above a definite temperature can , perhaps , be explained in the following way :\#151 ; The surface tension acts so as to make the leaf tend to contract .
But at lower temperatures this is prevented by the rigidity of the gold .
On heating , however , the surface tension and rigidity both decrease , possibly the latter decreases more rapidly than the former , and thus at a certain temperature the surface tension would overcome the rigidity and contraction take place .
On this view the temperature at which contraction takes place would depend on the thickness of the gold , for the rigidity increases rapidly with the thickness , but the surface tension remains constant .
The surface tension is probably large compared with the tension which the leaf can stand without tearing , so that the temperature at which the contraction takes place is independent of the tension .
Our best thanks are due to Prof. H. A. Wilson for the kindly help and advice given during the carrying out of these experiments .

