136 On the Chief Line in the Spectrum of the Nebulae .
[ Feb. 5 Observations and Reports ( continued ) .
Paris:\#151 ; Service Hydrographique de la Marine .
Annales Hydro-grapbiques .
Ser. 2 .
Annee 1890 .
8vo .
Paris .
The Service .
Service Hydrometrique du Bassin de la Seine .
Resume des Observations Centralists pendant 1'Annee 1889 .
8vo .
Versailles 1890 ; Observations snr les Cours d'Eau et la Pluie Centralists pendant 1'Annee 1889 .
Folio .
Versailles .
The Service , West Point , N.Y.\#151 ; U.S. Military Academy .
Official Register .
1890 .
8vo .
[ West Point .
' ] The Academy .
February 5 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. William Lawies Jackson , whose certificate had been suspended , as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Chief Line in the Spectrum of the Nebulse .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 18,1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" On the Chief Line in the Spectrum of the Nebulse .
A Reply .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 5 , 1891 .
[ P ublication deferred .
] 1891 .
] On the Fossa Patellaris of the Corpus Vitreum .
III .
" On a Membrane lining the Fossa Patellaris of the Corpus Vitreum .
" By T. P. Anderson Stuart , M.D. , Professor of Physiology in the University of Sydney , N.S.W. Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1891 .
The 9fch edition of Quain 's * Anatomy , ' 1882 , after giving a description of the hyaloid membrane and its connexions , says , " According to the account usually given , the hyaloid membrane divides in front into two layers : an anterior , continued forwards as the zonule of Zinn , and a posterior , passing behind the lens , the canal of Petit being contained between them .
The above description is based upon a renewed original investigation into the relations of the structures which support the lens , and is confirmatory of the statements of Meckel , Henle , Brailey , and others , and opposed to those of Iwanoff .
" How the description adopted by Quain discards the posterior layer passing behind the lens .
The vitreous humour , accord ir g to it , lies immediately against the posterior layer of the lens cansulo , and at the canal of Petit may , perhaps , in part occupy the interstices of the suspensory fibres , which are said to pass from the zonula to the periphery of the lens capsule .
Thus the whole anterior surface of the vitreous is bare , that is , is not invested by any membrane .
I cannot agree with this view , for , in the eye of the ox , I have demonstrated to the satisfaction of large numbers of my students and many members of the medical profession in Sydney , and at the Intercolonial Medical Congress in Melbourne , 1889 , that there is un-doubtedly a membrane in this situation .
I have found it likewise in the eye of the sheep , goat , dog , and porpoise , so that I entertain no doubt of its general occurrence , notwithstanding that Schwalbe , in 1887 ( 'Anatomie der Sinnesorgane ' ) , adheres to the view of the non-existence of the membrane .
This view was more explicitly set forth by Schwalbe in the anatomical part of De Wecker and Landolt 's 'Traite complete d'Ophthalmologie ' ( Paris , 1886 ) .
Here , at p. 519 , vol. 11 , he says what I translate as follows :\#151 ; | " R* the region of the ora serrata the hyaloid begins to gradually thicken and to change its structure , becoming the zonula ciliaris .
Prom this point it constitutes the anterior wall of the canal of Petit ; the posterior wall is identical with the anterior surface of the jelly of the vitreous body , which is differentiated from the liquid contents of the canal of Petit merely by its more dense surface .
A cleavage of the zonula , near the ora serrata , into an outer leaflet representing the fibres of the zonula and an inner one lining the fossa patellaris dot s sot take place .
Consequently the canal of Petit is to be compared to the other clefts in the jelly of the vitreous body .
This description 138 Prof. Anderson Stuart .
[ Feb 5 differs from those formerly given by me , in that I now consider the membrane limiting the canal of Petit posteriorly as an artificial product , the result of the action of reagents ( by precipitation or con .
densation ) .
There I agree with Iwanoff .
I am bound , however to maintain , in opposition to Meckel , the existence of the canal of Petit such as I have described it ; that the zonula and the vitreous body appear to touch each other is but the result of the compression which they undergo during section .
And so a cleavage of the hyaloid near the ora serrata does not take place .
" Iwanoff says , " In the vicinity of the ciliary processes the vitreous separates itself from the zonula , so that its entire anterior surface , or that which is turned towards the canal of Petit and the lens , is not covered by any special mem-brane ; neither by a prolongation of the limitans , as stated by Henle , nor by a special membrana hyaloidea , as was formerly supposed .
" Then , " At the ora serrata the several concentric layers of the cortex ( of the vitreous ) are so crowded together that the surface of the nucleus is separated from the limitans only by a very thin but plainly fibrous layer .
The fibres of this layer run parallel to the surface of the vitreous in wavy bundles , and are not unlike bundles of connective tissues .
The entire layer , thus changed , finally turns and passes towards the axis of the eye , thus completely covering the anterior surface of the vitreous .
Since we here , in fact , have not a single hut several layers crowded together , and only loosely united with one another , it is easy to see how one might suppose that behind the lens there lay a special membrane covering the corpus vitreum , especially since the most superficial of these layers is perfectly smooth .
" Finally , " The tissue of the vitreous is here condensed to form a limiting layer , in the same manner as Bowman 's membrane is formed by a condensation of the substantia propria of the cornea ; an independent membrane the hyaloidea\#151 ; does not exist at this place .
" What occurs to me then , considering the eminence of the authorities on each side of the question , is that the methods of demonstration have not been sufficiently conclusive .
After seeing it as I have seen it , and shown it to others , I cannot for one moment doubt its existence , for the proof of its existence could not possibly be more conclusive\#151 ; it can even be dissected off and examined in any perfectly fresh unaltered ox eye .
As Aeby has already , I find , published , the eyeball is best left to decompose for some twenty-four hours or longer , according to the external temperature , and then , on opening the sclerotic and choroid tissues carefully with fine blunt-pointed scissors , the vitreous and lens , united by the suspensory ligament , drop out in a mass , or at least are very easily expressed .
The suspensory ligament is now snipped all round , and the lens in its capsule removed .
When this has been done , according to the one side , the bed of the 1891 .
] On the Fossa Fatellaris of the Corpus Vitreum .
lens\#151 ; the fossa patellaris\#151 ; and the posterior wall of the canal of Petit ( now opened up ) would he hounded or lined immediately by the substance of the corpus vitreum .
According to the other side\#151 ; with which I entirely agree\#151 ; there stretches from , side to side a distinct membrane , so that in no part of its extent does the substance of the corpus vitreum reach the surface .
Let me now proceed to the proofs , which are of various kinds\#151 ; chemical , optical , and mechanical .
' Chemical Pigments.\#151 ; Aniline dyes and picrocarmine stain the capsule of the lens , the hyaloid , and other such elastic membranes , i When the fresh corpus vitreum is so stained\#151 ; and I prefer strong picrocarmine for some three minutes , then washing in copious water\#151 ; the hyaloid is perfectly well seen floating in water , with its wrinkles e on distortion and its well-defined free edge at a puncture .
Exactly the same appearance is seen on the front of the corpus vitreum\#151 ; here s there is something that stains deeply and that wrinkles .
Moreover picrocarmine stains the hyaloid membrane and the vitreous substance [ differently : the former is red and the latter is yellow .
The same !
difference is seen at the edge of a puncture in the floor of the patellar s fossa : the red membrane is quite distinct from the yellow vitreous i substance .
Optical.\#151 ; If , by means of a lens , the sun 's rays be concentrated upon the hyaloid membrane , it is seen to have a fluorescent appearance , somewhat as if the surface had been bathed in a solution of j ?
quinine sulphate .
That this fluorescent appearance is due to the hyaloid is obvious when the concentrated rays are made to fall on a l puncture in the hyaloid membrane .
The vitreous substance itself p has no such appearance , but is clear and glassy , so that the puncture i is beautifully seen , and the edge of the hole is sharp and well defined , j Exactly the same appearances are obtained when we examine the front of the vitreous ; the fluorescence is here too , and the difference between this appearance and that of the vitreous substance showing .
through the puncture is very marked .
Mechanical.\#151 ; When a blunt-pointed instrument is gently pressed , upon the hyaloid membrane and then removed , the substance recoils simply , perhaps leaving a dimple for a little time ; but , on pressing uiore firmly , there comes an instant when the instrument suddenly sinks ; one has the impression that a membrane has been punctured , and that behind the membrane the su bstance is soft and inelastic .
This impression is at once supported on squeezing the mass of the vitreous between the fingers ; a little elevation of the vitreous substance is projected like a pimple through the opening in the membrane , and recedes when the pressure is withdrawn .
When this is repeated in the front of the vitreous , the results are identical .
So far , I have not mentioned anything which might not be equally well explained by supposing the existence of a dense superficial layer On the FossaPatellaris of the Corpus Vitreum .
[ Feb. 5 of the vitreous substance , but the membrane is no such thing ; it * a true membrane ; it can readily be isolated , stained , submitted to microscopical examination , \amp ; c. Even with the unstained vitreous , it is quite easy to introduce a blunt instrument through a puncture in the membrane and , by working the instrument about under the surface , to detach the membrane from the surface of the vitreous substance .
When this has been done , a bell of air blown under it displays the membrane to good advantage as a delicate , elastic , smooth , apparently structureless , perfectly transparent sheet of tissue , answering most completely to the term " hyaloid .
" Though delicate , it is yet strong enough to support the whole weight of the vitreous when a blunt instrument is put into it .
When , the bounding membrane remaining intact , the vitreous is squeezed so as to bulge its anterior face , that face does not bulge equally all over its extent .
The centre of the anterior face projects more than the peripheral ring .
The central projected part corn-sponds to the fossa patellaris , where , as I shall show , the patellar mem-brane is thin , while the peripheral ring forms the back wall of the canal of Petit , and here the membrane is comparatively thick .
The transition from the peripheral to the central parts is fairly sudden , tor the central elevation rises from a distinct line corresponding to the inner margin of the peripheral ring .
The canal of Petit is , therefore a true canal .
Ii the vitreous be inverted over the mouth of a test-tube ( with a hole in the bottom of it ) of about \#163 ; inch diameter , and tied over it with a thick silk thread , and afterwards with a rubber band , the superficial part of the hyaloid and greater mass of the vitreous is cut through .
It now the vitreous substance be carefully pulled off by forceps , or if the test-tube be set upright in a beaker , and water poured into the beaker the water rising in the tube will bulge the membrane so that the vitreous substance will drain off it in an hour or so .
The membrane thus isolated is toughened by exposure over night , so that such a membrane , though it looks like a mere film , yet sustained no ess a pressure than 40 inches of water ; others sustained 22 , 28 , d4 inches , and so on , even after having been dead for days .
If the membrane be snipped all round its periphery , it can be detached as a whole from the subjacent vitreous substance .
en it has been removed , little tags of deeply-staining material are sometimes seen projecting from its deep face ; these , I have thonght might be vestiges of the hyaloid arteiy ; but , whether these " , , ere n0* ' ' *^ere is little or no adhesion between the membrane ana the vitreous substance .
When removed , and its deep surface brushed under water to emove any adherent vitreous substance , it is seen to be a hyaloid 1891 .
] Suspensory Ligament of the Crystalline Lens , fyc .
141 membrane with a thin centre and thick periphery .
Under the microscope it is structureless .
On removal it , of course , stains deeply , and thus can be readily examined .
When one attempts to raise it outwards towards the hyaloid membrane and suspensory ligament , one may succeed as far as the origin of the suspensory ligament , but behind this point it is so firmly adherent to the vitreous substance that it cannot be raised .
The notion of a membrane in front of the vitreous is supported by the behaviour of the vitreous body with its investing membranes intact in water ; it will remain many days with its form quite unchanged , and during all this time it may be handled without injuring it .
But if the membranes be cut so as to expose the vitreous substance to the action of the water , this substance protrudes and has a cloud-like outline very different from the sharp , definite outline or surface at the uninjured anterior face of the vitreous body where still covered by membrane .
Now there is never any of this cloud-like indefinite outline or surface at the uninjured anterior face of the vitreous body .
I infer , therefore , that it is not vitreous substance that here comes into contact with the water , but that it is a membrane that is not notably acted on by water .
After all these facts and considerations , I cannot doubt that there is in the perfectly fresh unaltered eye a membranous structure behind the posterior layer of the lens capsule , and that this structure has all the properties of a distinct membrane resembling the hyaloid , but differing in many respects from vitreous substance .
I need say nothing here as to the immense importance in many questions of ophthalmological practice of a definite knowledge of the existence or non-existence of a membrane limiting the vitreous body anteriorly .
J [ Aote added January 15 , 1891.-\#151 ; Since the above was sent in , I have had an opportunity of examining a series of sections of the entire human eyeball , made by Dr. Sheridan Delepine , and in all of these sections the membrane is distinctly seen in situ .
] V. On the Connexion between the Suspensory Ligament of the Crystalline Lens and the Lens Capsule .
" By T. P. Anderson Stuart , M.D. , Professor of Physiology in the University of Sydney , N.S.W. Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1891 .
I have not been able to get a too precise statement as to the nature . ?
M _ls c'nnexion , but Quain ( 9th ed. ) says the suspensory ligament *f . .
^ 7 attached ' to the capsule ; in another place Quain says it joins it .
Speaking of " suspensory fibres of the lens , " Quain says

