192 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
[ June 14 , IV .
Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
Part II .
The Spectrum of Metallic Manganese , of Alloys of Manganese , and of Compounds containing that Element .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The spectrum of manganese has been the subject of much investi .
gation ; the spark spectrum was examined by Huggins , Thalen , and Lecoq de Boisbaudran ; the arc spectrum was studied by Angstrom , Thalen , Cornu , Lockyer , also Liveing and Dewar ; the flame spectra obtained from compounds of manganese were investigated by Simmler , Von Lichtenfels , Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and Lockyer , while Marshall Watts has given us accurate measurements of the wave-lengths of lines and bands observed in the spark and oxybydrogen flame-spectra of spiegel-eisen , manganese dioxide , and other compounds of this metal .
When investigating the spectrum of the Bessemer flame , I found it necessary to compare the spectrum of elementary manganese under different conditions with that of its oxide when heated in the oxy-hydrogen flame .
Comparative experiments were made also with various alloys , as spiegel-eisen , silico-spiegel , ferromanganese , tool steel , and malleable nickel which contains manganese ; also with compounds containing similar quantities of metal .
Metallic manganese was prepared by the electrolysis of manganese chloride , from which all other metals had been carefully separated .
One preparation of pure manganese oxide was precipitated from a solution of potassium permanganate by the action of alcohol and a small quantity of sulphurous acid .
Other specimens were precipitated from solutions of potassium permanganate by the addition of hydrogen peroxide .
By this treatment pure manganic oxide containing only traces of potash was obtained .
From one preparation even the potassium was removed .
Photographs of the spectra of metallic manganese and of manganic oxide were taken and compared .
They were also compared with the spectra of the alloys of manganese .
The periods of exposure varied from a mere flash in the case of spiegel-eisen when being poured into a Bessemer converter , to 30 minutes and even as much as 80 minutes with manganic oxide .
The leading features of the spectra of manganese and manganese .
oxide are the same , but they differ in detail , as may be observed by comparing the wave-lengths of the lines and bands in their respective spectra .
1894 .
] Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
193 It will be readily understood that the bands can be measured with far less accuracy than lines , and that they are subject to some degree of variation in width , according to variation in the time of exposure and the temperature .
A striking group of lines , the most persistent in the whole of these spectra , is situated in the violet .
The following measurements were made:\#151 ; 4036'5 4034-9 Angstrom , also Cornu .
4'32- ' { 403^8 } Angstrom .
4029'5 4029-4 Angstrom .
Another line is just visible about 403T8 , but it is so close to 4032'0 that it could be discerned only when the extreme points of three very strong lines were examined , and the plate was in perfect focus for that region .
The whole group of lines appears as two bands very closely adjacent , or in the manganese oxide spectrum as one band with the centre appearing as if reversed , the less refrangible edge of the band being very strong and sharp , the more refrangible being-degraded and diffuse .
These lines remain after the bands in the yellow and green have disappeared from the photographs , but the result may be quite otherwise with eye observations , owing to the greater visibility of the yellow over the violet rays .
Photographs of the spectra obtained with a dispersion of four quartz prisms of 60 ' , and lenses of 15 inches in focal length , are presented with the paper .
" V. " Flame Spectra at High Temperatures .
Part III .
The Spectroscopic Phenomena and Thermo-Chemistry of the Bessemer Process .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received May 4 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The flame issuing from the mouth of a Bessemer converter was first investigated by Sir Henry Roscoe* * * S in 1863 ; by Lielegg , f and by Marshall Watts in 1867 ; t by Tunner , S J. M. Silliman , Rowan , || Yon * 'Literary and Phil. Soc. , Manchester , Proc. , ' vol. 3 , p. 57 , and 'Phil .
Mag./ vol. 34 , p. 437 .
t ' Sitzungsberichte Kaiserl .
Akademie der Wissensehaften , ' Wien , vol. 56 , Part II .
X ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 34 , p. 437 .
S * Dingier 's Polytech .
J. , ' vol. 178 , p. 465 .
|| ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 41 , p. 1 .
VOL. LVI .
O

