An Account of the preliminary Experiments and ultimate Construction of a Refracting Telescope of.78 inches aperture , with a fluid concave Lens .
In a Letter addressed to Davies Gilbert , Esq. P.R.S. By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. 8 , c. Read December 18 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 33 .
] The author gives an account of the continuation of his experiments on the construction of refracting telescopes with fluid lenses , which the aid furnished him by the Board of Longitude enabled him to pursue .
The instrument he particularly describes has a clear aperture of 7'8 inches , which exceeds by about an inch that of the largest refracting telescope in this country .
The whole length of the tube , with the eye-piece , is 12 feet , but its effective focus is 18 feet .
It carries a power of 700 on the closest double stars in South 's and Herschel 's catalogue , and shows them round and defined .
This telescope is mounted on a revolving stand , which works with considerable accuracy as an azimuth and altitude instrument .
The weight of the stand is about 400 pounds , and that of the telescope 130 pounds , being purposely made heavy in order to obtain steadiness ; yet its motions are so smooth , and the power so arranged , as to be easily manageable by one person ; and the star may be followed by a slight touch of the apparatus for regulating the more delicate movements of the telescope .
In order to protect it from the weather , which was found to injure its action and derange its adjustments , the author erected an observatory to contain it , consisting of a light piece of carpentry , 16 feet in diameter , with a revolving conical roof rising 9 feet above the walls , containing about 360 square feet of surface , and weighing about 10 cwt .
It is moveable by a simple apparatus , made to revolve and open to any required azimuth , by the application of a force of about 10 or 12 pounds .
His first object in the preliminary experiments was to ascertain the best position of the lenses for diminishing as much as possible the secondary spectrum .
For this purpose he reverts to the formulie given in a preceding paper , whence he deduces equations applicable to this object .
The mode of constructing different parts of the telescope is then particularly described , especially that of the fluid lenses , and of effecting the proper centering , and other adjustments .
He then describes its power when applied to several double stars .
By its means n Persei , marked as a treble star in South 's and Herschel 's catalogue , is seen distinctly sextuple ; four of the smaller of these stars , together with a larger one , form a miniature representation of Jupiter and his satellites .
Of the planets , he has only had opportunities of trying the telescope on Venus , Saturn , and Mars , all of which appear with remarkable brightness and distinctness .
The moon is also remarkably beautiful ; every minute distinction of figure and shade being brought into view.-The paper concludes with a detailed description of the various parts of the telescope and stand , illustrated by a drawing .

