Observations on Basalt , and on the Transition from the vitreous to the stony Texture , which occurs in the gradual Refrigeration of melted Basalt ; with some geological Remarks .
In a Letterfrom Gregory Watt , Esq. to the Right lion .
Charles Greville , V.P.R.S. Read May 10 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 279 .
] The number of conjectures that have been formed respecting the.nature of basalt , and the variety of opinions hitherto entertained concerning its aqueous or volcanic origin , not having yet proved satisfactory to those who are more seriously bent upon the discovery of truth than the triumph of victory in a controversy ; we are much indebted to the author of this paper for the ample body of observations and ingenious remarks it contains , from which , though they by no means establish either of the contested hypotheses , much may , however , be collected , which cannot fail to throw additional light on various intricate points in mineralogy and geology .
The main object here agitated , is the transition from the vitreous to the stony texture , which takes place in the refrigeration of glass ; and the following experiment takes the lead in this investigation , and affords the materials for the subsequent disquisitions .
About 7 cwt .
of the kind of basalt called Rowley Rag , of which a minute description is here given , were put into a common reverberatory furnace , strongly heated for several hours .
It soon melted with a less degree of heat than would have fused an equal weight of pig iron , and subsided into the deeper part of the furnace in the form of a liquid but rather tenacious glass .
A portion of it , on being taken out and suffered to cool , retained the characterof perfect glass .
But the remainder of the mass was left in the furnace , which was gradually cooled , and in eight days it was extracted , being cold on its surface , but still retaining a considerable degree of internal heat .
Its shape being very irregular , it was so differently affected by the same degree of heat , and the same progressive refrigeration , that no uniformity of texture could be expected .
This circumstance , however , which might have been obviated by care , is not to be regretted , since it has fortuitously disclosed the singular peculiarities in the arrangement of bodies passing from a vitreous to a stony state , which are the chief object of this paper .
A very minute description of this mass is next given , both in its progress towards vitrification , and in its subsequent refrigeration .
What appears most relevant is , that in the fluid glass a tendency towards an arrangement of particles is first developed by the formation of minute globules , thickly disseminated throughout the mass .
In the process of cooling , these globules adapt their form to their confined situation , gradually filling up every interstice ; and they finally assume the appearance of a substance apparently homogeneous , equally unlike glass , and the parent basalt , but much resembling some varieties of jasper in the compactness of its texture , and in its opacity .
If the temperature adapted to the further arrangement of the particles of the mass be continued , another change immediately conmmnences , in the progress of which the whole acquires a more stony texture , and a greater degree of tenacity .
TI'his is generally effected by a gradual formation of secondary spheroids in the heart of the jaspideous substance , whose centres are more distant , and dimensions greater than those of the above-mentioned globules : they are radiated with distinct fibres .
When two of these spheroids come into contact by mutual enlargement , no intermixture of their fibres seems to take .
place ; they reciprocally compress each other , and their limits are defined by planes , at which a distinct separation takes place .
When several spheroids come in contact on the same level , they are formed by mutual pressure into prisms of tolerable regularity , whose division is perfectly defined : and when a spheroid is surrounded on all sides by others , it is compressed into an irregular polyhedron .
The transition from this fibrous state to a different arrangement , seems to be very rapid , for the centres of most of the spheroids become quite compact before they receive one quarter of their usual dimensions ; the mass then becomes perfectly solid , very tenacious , and opake ; and its hardness is somewhat inferior to that of the glass from which it is formed .
A further continuation of the temperature , favourable to arrangement , speedily occasions another change .
The texture of the mass becomes more granular , and the brilliant points it exhibited in its former state become larger and more numerous , arrange themselves into regular forms , and finally , the whole mass becomes pervaded by thin crystalline laminae , which intersect it in every direction , and form projecting crystals in the cavities .
It is thought that an equalised temperature would have rendered the whole mass at once similar to the substance last described ; but then the interesting initial phenomena , from which the important inferences here announced are deduced , would not have been discovered .
These , and many more facts relating to the experiment , having been minutely detailed , the author proceeds to offer what he deems a partial explanation of the formation of the globules and of the radiated spheroids .
It is well ascertained , -he says , that heat is emitted by all bodies in their change from a gaseous to a fluid state ; and it is reasonable to suppose that heat may also be emitted in those changes of arrangement which affect the internal texture of a body after it has attained an apparently solid state .
That a succession of such changes actually takes place , seems to be demonstrated by several of the appearances in the *experiment , and particularly by the increase of specific gravity , which generally keeps pace with the internal changes of the substance .
These changes , it is conjectured , may be caused by a gradual diminution of temperature , which permits certain laws to induce peculiar arrangements among the particles of the glass : when several of these particles enter into this new bond of association , they must form a minute point , from which heat will issue in every direction : that heat will gradually propagate itself till the temperature of the glass is equal ized , and then the recurrence of the circumstances which induced the first particles to arrange themselves will cause other particles to arrange themselves also ; and these the attraction of aggregation will dispose round the point first formed .
A second emission of heat in every direction will now take place ; the temperature will again be equalised ; and again another concentric coat of arranged particles will apply itself to the little globule .
That these globules are formed of concentric coats does not clash with the circumstance of their being likewise radiated ; as every one may have remarked the connexion that almost uniformly exists between the radiated structure and the formation by concentric coats ; the more obvious instances of which are the hoematites and the calcareous stalactites .
In what manner this is likely to be effected is stated at some length in the paper .
Some curious remarks are next made on the observation of Mr. Smithson , that solution , far from being necessary to ' crystallization , effectually prevents its commencement ; since , while solution subsists , crystallization cannot take place : and many of the phenomena being duly considered , it seems most probable that the particles of bodies apparently solid must be capable of some internal motion , enabling them to arrange themselves according to their crystalline polarity while they are in a solid state .
Among the instances given , are the conversion of glass vessels into Reaumur 's porcelain , the tempering of steel , and the process of annealing .
This does not altogether disprove the crystallizations formed by molecules suspended in aqueous solutions ; but it is in general insisted upon , that all crystallizations are dependent on heat , there being , in fact , no fluidity , and consequently no solution , which heat does not produce .
These observations tend to prove the analogy which exists between the igneous and aqueous formations , and to show that precisely the same order and kind of arrangement is followed in the generation of stony masses from water as from fire .
Among the many instances that are adduced to justify this assertion , are , on the one hand , the phenomena exhibited by lavas , in which may be observed every step of the passage from the vitreous to the stony , from that to a porphyritic , and finally to the granitic state : on the other hand , we may select the formation of calcareous stalactites , in which the successive depositions of calcareous carbonate form a mass which at first is fibrous ; a continuance of the process causes the fibrous structure to disappear , and the stalactite becomes irregularly spathose ; after which the irregularities vanish altogether , and it becomes perfect calcareous spar , divisible into large rhomboids , with the form peculiar to that mineral .
Adverting now to the chief object of this paper , the basalt , the author observes , that should , in fact , the analogy between the aqueous and igneous formation appear founded , the transition from glass to stone can no way affect the great question which has so long divided geologists about the origin of basalt : for though it be synthetically demonstrated that basalt may be formed by fire , the proofs in favour of its formation by water must be allowed to be at least of equal weight .
In fact , while the frequent instances of petrifactions found in basalt support the aqueous hypothesis , the equally numerous indications that the heat emanating from it has manifestly changed beds of coal into coke and indurated strata of stony substances , strongly argue in favour of the igneous assumption .
The above sketch of the author 's observations and reasonings , imperfect as it is , may however suffice for rightly comprehending the interesting part of the paper which relates to the wonderful regularity of the prismatic configuration of basaltic .
columns , and also for their articulations .
If we suppose that a mass of fluid basalt has filled a valley to an indefinite depth and extent , the process of arrangement in its particles must be deduced from the removal of its heat or moisture , according as its solution is igneous or aqueous .
This can only be done by the action of the atmosphere on its upper surfa.ce , and by the ground on which it reposes absorbing the heat or moisture from its under surface .
From the variations of the atmosphere , its action must be irregular ; and from the perpetual change of the parts in contact with the heated or moist surface , its operations will always be nearly as active as at first , allowance being made for its variations : but the absorption of the ground will be regular , and regularly diminishing in activity , in proportion as the parts near the mass approach nearer to the same temperature or same moisture with the mass above ; and thus absorption can only be carried on by the transmission of heat or moisture from the mass to the solid rocks below .
From these considerations , it seems evident that the arrangement of the part of the basaltic mass near the ground will be begun with more energy than it can be continued , and that the results will be more slow and regular , and that induced by the action of the atmosphere .
After the first stage in the process of arrangement has been performed , and a stratum of the jaspideous substance is extended over the surface of the ground , there seems no reason to doubt that a number of radiated spheroids will be generated in it , having probably all their centres nearly at the same distance from the ground ; and as the arranging power undergoes a gradual diminution of energy , it is not likely that two rows of them in height should be formed at once .
In a word , it seems most probable , that in the arrangem-ent of a mass of basalt , a single layer of radiated spheroids will be formed , reposing on the ground which supports the mass .
How these radiated spheroids , by coming in close contact , will compress each other , and form polyhedral and , generally , hexagonal prisms , will be understood from what we have said above of that operation in the experiment .
If these prisms are resisted below , and there is no opposing cause above them , it is clear that they will extend their dimensions upwards into the undisturbed central mass of the fluid , till their structure is deranged by the action of the atmosphere on the upper surface of the basalt .
According to this arrangement , the same cause that determines the concentric fractures of the fibres of the spheroids , will produce convex articulations in the lower joints of the prisms .
If the generating centres are not equidistant , the forms of the pillars will be irregular , and of different number of angles ; and as the compression of the fibres will be greatest on the level of the generating centres , the lower part of the prisms will be most compact .
All the observations hitherto made on the great basaltic masses in nature , seem to confirm this simple theory ; and the author bestows some pains in accounting for the appearances which seem at first sight not to agree perfectly with it .
Those who shall peruse the paper will , if we are not much mistaken , be particularly gratified with the variety of information they will meet with in this part of the treatise .
Lastly , the author directs his attention to the many instances of other substances , besides basalt , which affect a columnar form , and which afford convincing proofs that their configuration is not confined to either the aqueous or igneous formation .
Such are , certain lavas , columns of porphyry found near Dresden , a bed of gypsum at Montmartre , and other masses of various nature .
Sandstone , clay , argillaceous iron ore , and many other substances , become prismatic by torrefaction ; and prisms of starch formed in drying have often been considered as illustrative of basaltic formation .
Some of these are probably to be attributed solely to contraction ; and it is shown that they do by no means contribute toward any explanation of the process here in contemplation .

