5 1894 .
] The Pigments of the rotation of a fly-wheel .
Replacing the porous pots by a transpiring branch , this too maintains the wheel in rotation .
This is , in fact , a vegetable engine .
In short , the transpiration effects going on at the leaf are , in so far as they are the result of spontaneous evaporation and uninfluenced by other physiological phenomena , of the " sorting demon " class , in which the evaporating surface plays the part of a sink of thermal energy .
If the tensile stress in the sap is transmitted to the root , the authors suggest that this will establish in the capillaries of the root-surface meniscuses competent to condense water rapidly from the surrounding soil .
They show by experiment the power possessed even by a root injured by lifting from the soil , of condensing water vapour from a damp atmosphere .
Such a state of things may be illustrated by a system ( which the authors realised ) consisting of two porous pots connected by a tube and all filled with water ; one , the " leaf , " exposed to the air gives out vapour , the other , the " root , " buried in damp earth supplies the demand of the " leaf , " and an upward current in the connecting tube is established .
III .
" The Pigments of the Pieridse .
A Contribution to the Study of Excretory Substances which function in Ornament .
" By E. Gowland Hopkins , Demonstrator of Physiology and Chemistry at Guy 's Hospital , London .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received October 5 .
1894 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the chemistry of the wing pigments of that group of butterflies known as the Pieridse , and demonstrates the excretory nature of these pigments .
The following are the salient facts dealt with , most of the statements being based on original observations described in the paper:\#151 ; 1 .
The wing scales of the white Pieridos are shown to contain uric acid , this substance bearing the same relation to the scale as do the pigments in the coloured Pieridse , and therefore functioning practically as a white pigment .
2 .
The yellow pigment which is so widely distributed in the Pieridee ( being found in the majority of the genera ) is shown to be a derivative of uric acid .
3 .
The properties of this yellow pigment are described , and the results of its analysis are given .
The pigments of various yellow-coloured genera are shown to be identical .
4 .
It is shown that this yellow pigment may be artificially produced by heating uric acid with water in sealed tubes at high tern- Presents .
[ Nov. 15 , peratures .
The product so obtained was originally described by Hlasiwetz as " mycomelic acid " ; but evidence is brought forward to show that the substance described and analysed by this chemist was in reality urate of ammonium coloured by a yellow body , probably identical with the natural pigment .
5 .
The identity of the natural and artificial products is demonstrated by the fact that both yield under like treatment a purple derivative , which has a well-marked and easily identified absorption spectrum .
, 6 .
The artificial yellow product has not yet been obtained in a pure condition , but it may be so far purified as to exhibit clearly all the general properties of the natural pigment .
7 .
The natural pigment as prepared for analysis is shown to be almost certainly a chemical individual .
Its probable constitution is discussed .
8 .
It is shown that , this yellow substance ( denominated in the paper " Lepidotic acid " ) , together with a closely allied red substance , will account for all the chemical pigmentation of the wing scales of the coloured Pieridae , though modifications may be produced by superadded optical effects .
The black pigment found in the group is not dealt with in the paper .
9 .
The described uric acid derivatives , though universal in the Pieridae , are apparently confined to this group among the Rhopalocera .
This fact enables the interesting observation to be made , that where a Pierid mimics an insect belonging to another family , the pigments in the two cases are chemically quite distinct .
This is well seen in the genera Leptalis and Mechanitis respectively .
10 .
The existence of pigments other than scale-pigments is for the first time described ; substances , namely , which are found between the wing membranes , and which , in certain genera , are the basis of ornament .
11 .
The fact that the scale-pigments are really the normal excretory products of the animal utilised in ornament , is emphasised by the observation that the yellow Pierids , on emergence from the chrysalis , are apt to void from the rectum a quantity of uric acid coloured by a yellow substance which exactly resembles the pigment of the wing .
Presents , November 15 , 1894 .
Transactions .
Amsterdam:\#151 ; K. Akademie van Wetenschappen .
Verhandel-ingen .
Deel II .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 6 , 8 .
Deel III .
8vo .
Amsterdam 1893\#151 ; 94 ; Jaarboek .
1893 .
8vo .
Amsterdam ; Nerslagen der Zittingen .
1893\#151 ; 94 .
8vo .
Amsterdam .
The Academy .

