]\gt ; Mr. G. D. West .
On the Resistance to the [ Sept. 18 , relative amounts of the solvents present .
Of course , on any simple theory of Kundt 's rule , such as we have give1l above , in using a mixture of two solvents and gradually altering the proportions , there would be a gradual displacement of the bands ; one would merely add to equation ( 3 ) a term in similar to that in .
On this view one pictures each absorbing unit , supplied by the dissolved salt , as surrounded by the same average medium .
On the other hand , the solvation theory indicates a division of the absorbers into two classes , each class composed of units with an immediate atmosphere of one of the solvents .
One could only express this formally in ( 3 ) by dividing the term in into two similar terms with slightly altered values of , but this procedure would not lead far .
In the meantime , a definite expression of Kundt 's rule may be of use in leading to an estimate of its effect in simple cases .
On the Resistance to the Motion of a JTercury in Tube .
By GILBEItT D. WEST , B.Sc. , East London College , University of London .
( Communicated by Prof. C. H. Lees , F.R.S. Received September 18 , \mdash ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
The number of physical measurements which depend on the observation of a short thread of mercury in a glass tube is considerable .
Rankine 's recent determinations of the viscosities of gases , by driving the gases through a tube by the pressure of such a thread , may be mentioned as an example .
Notwithstanding the frequent use of the mercury thread , there does not appear to be any definite knowledge as to the connection between the motion of the thread and the forces which must act in it to produce that motion .
It is the object of the present work to investigate the point .
It is comparatively well known that the upper surface of a drop of clean mercury which is slowly rising in a vertical glass tube , is more convex than when the drop is stationary , whilst the lower surface is less convex .
whole of the resistance the drop offers to motion has been attributed to this change of the angle of contact of mercury and glass .
This is correct for wide bore tubes , but in narrow bore tubes viscous forces come into play .
When the drop is moving upwards with a given speed , let and be the upper and lower angles of contact of the mercur ) with the glass , then the resistance to the motion due to surface tension is 1911 .
] of hread of Mercury in a Glass Tube .
where is the radius of the tube and the surface tension per unit length .
The difference of pressure on the two ends of the drop necessary to move the drop against th , effects of surface tension is therefore To get an expression for the effect of viscosity , it is rather more convenient to imagine the drop at rest and the walls of the tube moving downwards .
The stream lines in the drop will be as shown in fig. 1 , points on the surface of a cylinder of radius within the drop being at rest .
Then we have for a cylinder of radius moving will speed , where is approximately the length of the drop , and the viscosity of mercury .
When , and when , the velocity of the drop , since , according to Warburg*and Villari , there is no slip of mercury over glass .
Heuce , . .
, Since equal quantities of ]iquid ascend and descend within the drop , , i.e. , Hence The pressure necessary to drive the drop with velocity is therefore given by Since in front of the drop mercury from the interior becomes surface mercury , and the opposite holds at the rear , there will be a temperature difference produced which adds a further resistance of the order 1 dine .
This may be neglected .
In order to test this formula , experiments were first carried out with tubes about 3 mm. in diameter .
The apparatus found to be most satisfactory is represented in fig. 2 .
A and are reservoirs of compressed and rarefied air respectively , and are compression and suction pumps , and are very fine capillary tubes , is a bromoform ( density ) manometer , and is the ascent and descent * Warburg , ' Pogg .
Ann 1870 , vol. 140 , p. 367 .
Villari , ' Mem. dell ' Acc .
di Bologna , ' 1876 , ( 3 ) , p. 611 .
Mr. G. D. West .
On the Resistance to the [ Sept. 18 , tube for the thread of mercury which can be sucked up from the vessel after which is lowered so as to open the lower end of H. In the first atus the tubes and were absent , the drop ascended under constant pressure , and a slight constriction in the tube might stop the drop .
With the capillary tube , if a constriction occurs in the ascent tube , more air is sucked out from the space above the drop and sticking is prevented .
As the pressure in the bromoform manometer varies slightly a mean of several readings is taken .
Experiments were carried out on six threads of mercury in a clean glass tube of diameter cm .
All ths results obtained are exactly similar to the typical set embodied in fig. 3 .
'A certain pressure is required to move the drop , but after that point , an inappreciable increase in pressure causes a large increase in velocity .
The results obtained with the six drops are given in brief below .
The shortest thread was able to sustain itself in the tube and had to be blown down .
Length .
Driving pressure cm .
for all small velocities .
cm .
mercury .
0.277 , , 2 .
0.294 , 1 .
0.267 , 0.293 , Within the error of experiment the driving pressure is independent of length of the drop , and the mean driving pressure , when is radius of the tube .
Resistance to the Motion of a Thread of Mercnry , etc. other by the photographic method\mdash ; are embodied in figs. 4 and 5 .
The results for the finest tube are given in brief in the following table:\mdash ; bIean The mean value of the first term obtained from experiments on wide tubes The theoretical value for the last term ( taking at C. , the mean Th Adherence of Flat Surfaces .
temperature of the experiments , ) is .
The is sufficiently close .
It is therefore clear that the velocity of a thread of mercury cm .
long , in a glass tube of uniform radius , subject to a driving pressure is represented , with a fair degree of accuracy , by the ion In conclusion I should like to acknowledge my indebtedness to Prof. Lees for much valuable assistance , and to the Research Committee of the East London College for the apparatus .
The Adherence of Flat By H. M. BUDGETT , B.A. ( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , C.B. , F.R.S. Received September 20 , \mdash ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) In recent years it has been found possible to polish plane surfaces of hardened steel to a degree of accuracy which had previously been approached only in the finest optical work , and to produce steel blocks in the form of end which can be made to adhere or ' wring\ldquo ; together in combinations .
Considerable interest has been aroused by the fact that these blocks will often together with such tenacity that a far greater force must be employed to separate them than would be required if the adhesion were solely due to atmospheric pressure .
It is proposed in this paper to examine the various causes which produce this adhesion : firstly , showing that by far the greater portion of the effect is due to the presence of a liquid film between the faces of the steel ; and , secondly , endeavouring to account for the force which can be resisted by such a film .
The only previous experiments in this direction appear to be those carrisd out with Whitworth surface plates by Prof. Tyndall in By wringing together two of these plates and suspending them in a vacuum he proved that the adherence between them was not caused solely by atmospheric pressure as had been previously supposed .
According to Goodeve , the conclusion at which Tyndall arrived was that the plates adhered by the * Paper read at the Royal Institution by Prof. Tyndall , June 4 , 1875 .
' The Elements of Mechanism , ' 1897 , pp.

