398 Messrs. Tiemann Haarmann on [ June 18 , Pig .
3 .
Mass from blood of young rat ( in serum ) in full development , after two hours ' warming .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 7 .
) Fig. 4 .
Mass ( young rat ) with blood-corpuscles about it , to show the relative sizes .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 5 .
) Fig. 5 .
Some of the developed forms as seen with No. 11 Hartnack .
( See text .
) Fig. 6 .
Form watched for four hours .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) Fig. 7 .
Form watched for five hours .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) Fig. 8 .
Small vein in connective tissue from the back of a young rat , showing the corpuscles free among the red ones .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 7 .
) Fig. 9 .
Small vein from the connective tissue of a rat ( in serum ) , showing corpuscles and developed forms .
( Ocular 3 , Objective 9 .
) VII .
" On Coniferine , and its Conversion into the Aromatic Principle of Vanilla/ " By Ferd .
Tiemann and Wilh .
Haarmann .
Communicated by A. W. Hofmann , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1874 .
The sap of the cambium of coniferous trees contains a beautiful crystalline glucoside , coniferine , which was discovered by Hartig and examined some years ago by Kubel , who arrived at the formula C21H32'12 + 3aT A minute study of this compound leads us to represent the molecule of coniferine by the expression CJjo H2 ?
08 + 2aq , the percentages of which nearly coincide with the theoretical values of Kubel 's formula .
Submitted to fermentation with emulsine , coniferine splits into sugar and a splendid compound , crystallizing in prisms which fuse at 73 ' .
This body is easily soluble in ether , less so in alcohol , almost insoluble in water ; its composition is represented by the formula C"HuO , .
The change is represented by the equation CleH120 , + H,0 = 0 , HI20 , + C,0H"O , .
Under the influence of oxidizing agents the product of fermentation undergoes a remarkable metamorphosis .
On boiling it with a mixture of potassium bichromate and sulphuric acid , there passes with the vapour of water , in the first place ethylic aldehyde , and subsequently an acid compound soluble in water , from which it may be removed by ether .
On evaporating the ethereal solution , crystals in stellar groups are left behind , which fuse at 81 ' .
These crystals have the taste and odour of vanilla .
An accurate comparative examination has proved them to be iden1874 .
] Coniferine and Conversion .
399 tical with the crystalline substance which constitutes the aroma of vanilla , and which is often seen covering the surface of vanilla-rods .
On analysis , the crystals we obtained were found to contain This is exactly the composition which recent researches of Carles have established for the aromatic principle of vanilla .
The transformation of the crystalline product of fermentation into vanilline is represented by the following equation:\#151 ; C10H12O3+O==C2H4O + C8H8O3 .
To remove all doubt regarding the identity of artificial vanilline with the natural compound , we have transformed the former into a series of salts which have the general formula c8h7M03 , and into two substitution-products , C.I^BrO , and c8h7io3 , both of which had previously been prepared by Carles from the natural compound .
In order further to elucidate the nature of vanilline , we have submitted this body to fusion with alkali .
The product of this action is a well-known acid discovered by Strecker , and described by him as proto-catechuic acid , C7H0O4 , which is thus formed\#151 ; C8H803 + 40 = C7H604 + H20 + C02 .
We have identified this substance by analysis , by the study of its reactions , and also by transforming it into pyrocatechine , C6 Hfi 02 , C7 H6 04 = C6 H6 02 + C02 .
The transformation into protocatechuic acid fixes the constitution of vanilline .
This compound is the methylated aldehyde of protocatechuic acid ; its composition referred to benzol is represented by the formula .
/ OCH3 \COH .
400 On Coniferine and Conversion .
[ June 18 , Indeed , submitted under pressure to the action of hydrochloric acid , vanilline splits into chloride of methyl and protocatechuic aldehyde , / O CH3 / OH C6H3fOH + HC1 = CH3C1 + C6H3(-OH \COH \COH .
A corresponding action takes place with hydriodic acid ; but in this case the aldehyde is destroyed .
An additional proof of the correctness of our view regarding the constitution of vanilline is obtained by treating this substance with acetic anhydride and benzoyl chloride .
The action does not go beyond the formation of the compounds / OCH3 C , H , fOC , H,0 \COH , and / OCH3 C , H , f0C , H,0 \COH , showing that vanilline does not contain more than one hydroxylic group .
The constitution of vanilline being thus made out , there could be no doubt regarding the structure of the product of fermentation from which vanilline arises .
This compound is the ethylic ether of vanilline , / OCH3 C , H , ^-OCsH , \COH .
That such is the constitution of the body is proved by the simultaneous formation of ethylic aldehyde when vanilline is formed .
We obtained , however , an additional confirmation of this conception by submitting the product of fermentation to the action of hydriodic acid under pressure , when an alcohol iodide was formed , wThich we succeeded in separating into the iodides of methyl and ethyl , / OCH3 / OH C6H3(-OC2H5 + 2HI = CHaI + C2H5I + C6H3^OH \COH \C 0 H. The experiments we have described in this note were performed in the laboratory of Professor A. W. Hofmann , to whom we are deeply indebted for the advice and assistance he has given us in the course of these researches .

