]\gt ; necessary to determine the chemical activity of the positive columns of various discharges .
Thus the experiments recorded in this paper chiefly deal with positive lumns and were undertaken to determine simultaneously both the chemical activity and the electric force within positive columns corresponding to different currents and pressures .
The Apparatus .
The scheme of the apparatus is shown diagrammatically in fig. 1 .
The mixed gas was generated .
in the closed vessel by the electrolysis was a D'Arsonval galvanometer such that the corresponding to a deflection of the spot of light through about 67 mm. was ampere , which was the order of the currents used ( see Table I previous values , since the positive column contributes to the total chemical effect an amount proportionate to its length .
It was determined as a cation of the other two values and will help to indicate their accuracy , but was not used in deducing the chemical activity of the positive column .
Results of the Experiments .
The values of , determined in the manner just described , with.two or more rent distances between the electrodes , but the same current are given in Table I for various pressures .
The significance of depends of course upon the cubical capacity of the part of the apparatus where the falls of pressure produced by the current took place , viz. , the part to the right of the tap , fig. 1 .
This capacity was , or rather it varied within about per cent. of this value , changing slightly with the barometer and with the of the rod supporting the anode above the mercury .
It is , however , convenient to express the results absolutely , i.e. independently of the apparatus .
This might be done by multiplying by 1000/ 474 so as to give the fall of pressure per coulomb that would take place in an apparatus of capacity 1 litre .
But the simplest course , in view of the subsequent discussion , is to find how many molecules of water vapour*are formed by the passage through the gas of the atomic quantity of electricity , namely , the charge carried by a negative ion .
This number is denoted by W. Now it is easy to show that approximately For if is the number of molecules in 1 .
of gas at 760 mm. pressure and temperature , and the charge on an ion ip eleotrostatic units .
It follows that .
is a function of , and that the relation between these two variables is independent of the current , for the current was arbitrary and varied by several hundred per cent. , while the points plotted in fig. 4 fall upon the curve within the limits of experimental error .
This result proves definitely that the observed chemical effects in the positive column are not directly due to recombination*of ions , for the number of recombinations per cubic centimetre would increase with the square of the current , since the force and therefore the velocity of the ions are very little affected by the current .
It also proves that these chemical effects are not due to any internal radiation , such as perhaps the " " entladungstrahlen set up in the positive column by the recombination of ions , for the intensity of such a radiation would probably be proportional to the of the current , and certainl could not have a chemical effect dependent only upon the quantity of electricity passed the gas .
Another result , which is quite independent of any theory of the chemica : According to this theory , then , , which was defined to be the number ' molecules of water vapour formed by.the transit of the atomic charge through 1 cm .
of the positive column , becomes the number of molecules of water vapour formed by the motion of a negative ion through cm .
, where , are the velocities of the negative and positive ions in the column .
Now is quite negligible in regions where the ratio of electric force to pressure is so great as in the positive columns of Table Therefore the theory makes the number of water-vapour moleoules formed by an electron 's motions through 1 cm .
; and it remains to show that the observed values of are connected with those of and as the theory requires .
In what follows it is assumed that .
owing to their very small mass the electrons are brought practically to rest by their colJisions with the gas molecules .
It is also assumed ( an assumption usually made and easy to justify ) that the fields of force here considered impress such a bigh velocity upon the electrons that the gas molecules may be considered relatively at rest .
Now the collision of an electron with a molecule of oxygen cannot have the effect of separating the atoms unless the energy of the electron at collision exceeds the energy of formation of the oxygen molecule , which will be denoted in this paper by ergs .
But besides this condition it is natural to suppose that the electron will not dissociate the molecule unless it collides with a certain minimum velocity .
I Let Yolts represent the potential difference through which the ion must fall to acquire this velocity , then being the charge in electrostatic units of the electron .
Hence in a field of force , volts per centimetre , the electron must traverse a free path of or more before colliding with an oxygen molecule if it is to acquire the T. Lattey , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , 1910 , .
His numbers make ] when this ratio is .
Hence , when is so large as in Table I , is smalL Cf .
J. S. Townsend , ' Phil. Mag February , 1901 , Inethd is here genesis of uncharged atoms from the of oxygen by the impart of the apparatus and not confined to positive columns but existing been the chemical effects of .
an electron 's motion , through electrolytic gas and in any field of electrostatic force , and and is true that special conditions prevail in the positive column where these effects have been observed , and that a certain amount of recombination may be going on , so as to terminate the course of a percentage of electrons that traverse it .
That percentage is , however , probably* ble ; and in any case , ions are produced at exactly the same rate as they disappear , since everything is quite steady , so that the mean chemical effects attending the passage of the atomic charge through 1 cm .
of the positive column must be the same as though that charge was carried by the same , electron .
Thus there is no reason to suppose that the relation ( 10 ) between , in the positive column would not equally exist anywhere else where there may be an electrostatic force Deduchons from the Theoretical Equation .
The equation leads to several results which will now be deduced .
( 1 ) to the Energy of Formatim of an Oxygen Molecule.\mdash ; Since and by equations ( 8 ) and ( 7 ) , therefore V volts .
That is , an electron must fall freely through at least 4 volts to acquire sufficient velocity to dissociate by impact an oxygen molecule into atoms .
Hence by the inequality ( 1 ) , the energy of formation of an oxygen molecule , is less than ergs , the charge of an electron seems to be nearly electlostatio units ; and since the present theory assumes that the electron is practically stopped by its collisions , so that nearly all its energy is imparted to molecule struck , the limit , ergs , should be fairly near to : actual value of .
This estimate is independent of quantity of walo the hydrogen to the nascent or atomic state , would not be suffloient t produce more than molecules of water vapour .
On the other hand see ation ( an electron in moving through 1 cm .
of electrolytic gas at 1 mm. pressure makes oollisions with molecules , so that if only 4 out of these collisions dissociated the moleenlae into atoms , there would still be enough detached oxygen .
atoms for the .
production of the molecules of water .
It follows from these considerations that an atom of oxygen is capable of uniting directly with a molecule of hydrogen .
In other words , if the atoms in a hydrogen molecule need to be relatively displaced previous to formation of water , such a displacement can be effeoted by the colIision of , the free atom of oxygen .
This conclusion is supported by the form of equation , which requioea that only one of the gases need be brought to the active state .
For if the hydrogen had also to be atomised by ionic impact , the amount of water vapour would be proportional to the product of and a similar term applicable to hydrogen ( see equation .
Henoe would constants ) , and would be a function of : the latter result inconsistent with one or two observations in this aird the last paper , and former does not appear to be reconcilable with the rest .
( 3 ) Energy of Formation of a Molecule of Water Vapour.\mdash ; From the previous conclusions ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) it is possible to form an estimate energy of formation of a lecule of water vapour .
For , as -well know4 1 .
of hydrogen , uniting with oxygen to produce water laboratory temperature , liberates 29,000 calories of heal , that molecule into ions .
It follows from the numerioal results that the collision might at once both atomise and ionise a molecule ; another consioq might have either of these two effects without the according to the velocity and other circumstances of the impact .
For the works required to ionise a molecule of a gas , except in peculiarly favourable circumstances iouic impact , is much greater than the work needed to dissociate a molecule of oxygen into atoms : , and , on the other hand , ionisation may occur at every impact , if the velocity is great enough , but not dissociation into atoms .
Again , since positive ions have also the power of iomsing molecules by collision , il is highly probable that they can perform the task , lighter in respect of work to be done , of breaking up of oxygen into atoms , if they ars moving in a strong enough field of force .
Thus it is possible that the great chemical activity in a discharge across the cathode fall may be the work of the positive ions , though there is no direct evidence of this .
With regard to other reactions produced by an electric discharge , it is natural to assume that the part played by it in promoting chemical action the same .
The collisions of the ions , probably both kinds , with the molecules of gas bring the gas into the active state , either by dissociating or displacing the atoms , so that it can form new comb.inations .
It follows that different chemical products might be formed in the same gaseous mixture by the motion of ions under different fields of force .
This theory does not dispense with the postulate of chemical forees acting vely , only explains how the discharge prepares the way for their action .
On the contrary , it was pointed out above that the experimental results , quite independently of theory , lead certainly to the conclusion the atoms of oxygen when separated are not charged electrically .
so it is necessary to postulate some other force that binds them into a molecule .
The connection between , and , expressed in equation ( 4 ) , owes its form partly to the fact involved in the theory that only one of the constituents of electrolytic gas viz. , oxygen has to be brought to the product would not be detectable .
It is only in the case of very much larger currents , such as those maintained through a gas by a battery , or obtained by connecting the electrodes to the secondary terminals of a Ruhmkorff coil , as in the case of the silent discharge , that a sufficient number of effective collisions are made by the ions traversing the gas to produce a measurable effect .
of Principat Conclusions .
( 1 ) When a steady discharge passes through electrolytic gas at pressure mm. , the number of molecules of water vapour formed by the passage of the atomic charge through 1 cm .
of the positive column , where the electric force is , is approximately .
This number , which is independent of the current , appears to be absolute ( i.e. independent of the apparatus and -not confined to positive columns ) and to depend only upon the field of force .
( 2 ) The atoms of oxygen , when separated , are not charged electrically .
This is proved by experiments independently of theory .
Hence the atom of oxygen is not bound in a molecule of water vapour by electrostalic force .
( 3 ) The chemical effects , within the positive column , are due to the collisions of the ( corpuscular ) negative ions with the oxygen molecules , which are dissociated into atoms , under certain conditions , by those collisions ; and so enabled to combine with hydrogen .
( 4 ) The energy of formation of an oxygen molecule is less-than ergs , and is nearly equal to ergs .
( 5 ) Water vapour produced by the collision of an atom of oxygen with a molecule of hydrogen .
( 6 ) The energy of formation of a molecule of water vapour is nearly ( 7 ) Only half the collisions that an electron makes with a molecule of

