1884 .
] Mr. J. Gorham .
The Pupil-Photometer .
425 Vertebrates , except Amphioxus , have a portion of the kidney modified for some unknown purpose not connected with excretion ; that in Cyclostomes the pronephros alone is so modified , in Teleostei the pro-and part of the meso-nephros ; while in Elasmobranchs and the higher Vertebrates , the mesonephros alone gives rise to this organ , which has also , in these forms , acquired a secondary connexion with certain of the sympathetic ganglia .
IV .
" The Pupil-Photometer .
" By J. GORHAM , M.R.C.S. Eng. Communicated by Dr. WlLKS , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) It is agreed on all hands that the pupil of the eye owes its size to the quality of the light ; contracting and dilating according to the intensities of the light .
It is not agreed , however , if indeed it has ever become the subject of debate , that its magnitudes may be reciprocally the measures of those intensities .
There are cogent reasons for believing that they are so , and hence that an instrument which measures the pupil 's size , measures at the same time the light 's intensity .
The photometer was originally constructed for the former purpose only , and indicates the diameter of the pupil in hundredths of an inch .
The diameter is found by directing the instrument applied to one eye , with both eyes open , towards a sheet of white paper , or the sky ; the lid of the instrument is now revolved slowly until the two white disks just touch one another at their edges .
vTheL decimal fraction opposite the two apertures seen on the scale outside , indicates the diameter of the pupil in hundredths of an inch .
On examining hourly for several consecutive weeks the light of the day reflected from a given small area of the sky , certain recurring periodicities were observed in the pupil 's magnitudes , and these are found to coincide with analogous alterations in the light 's intensity ; hence it was inferred that if the pupil owes its size to the intensity of the light , it became from that very fact a measure of that intensity .
It is the object of the paper to substantiate this by experiment .
To use the instrument for testing light of different intensities we first set the pupil to a light of a given intensity by using a S ugg 's standard candle .
This is placed at a distance of one foot from the eye , with a white surface close behind it , in a darkened room .
The diameter of the pupil is now taken under the stimulus of the candle flame , and its measure is read off on the scale of .
the instrument .
My own pupil , when impressed with such a light , measures invariably the 0T5 inch .
We now place four such candles at two feet from the eye , when the 426 Mr. J. Gorham .
Th Pupil-Photometer .
[ Nov. 27 , pupil will be found to remain stationary at the same magnitude as before .
These results are in strict accordance with the rule that the intensity of the illumination of any body , in the presence of a source of light , will depend upon its distance from that source , and obeys the general law of radiant forces , the intensity of the light varying inversely as the square of the distance of the luminous body .
Hence , if a single candle illuminates a body at one foot , four candles at two feet are required to produce equal illumination .
It will be observed that the process of equalizing the illumination becomes at the same time the measure of the number of candles used in the experiment .
Hence , by an extension of the same principle , the candle-power of any luminous body may be found .
Thus , if one candle at one foot is equal in intensity to four candles at two feet , it will be similarly equal to nine candles at three feet ; where the number of candles in each case is found by taking the square of the distance .
Let it be required , for instance , to take the candle-power of a gas-flame .
Suppose now that the distance required to equalise the illuminations is equal to six feet , then the square of six being equal to thirty-six , the brilliancy of the flame will be equal to that of thirty-six candles .
The fact of the pupil varying in different individuals under a light of the same intensity , scarcely militates against the use of the instrument , for so far as observations extend it has been found that the pupil in each person has a range of its own , and that while the absolute numbers vary the ratios are the same .
( See Diagram in paper .
) In taking observations we are not conscious of exercising any voluntary efforts of our own with a view to controlling the pupil .
Its movements , on the contrary , are involuntary and instinctive .
Herein , doubtless , consists the certainty with which they are performed .

