]\gt ; 210 .
J. R. Ashworth .
Methods of making Magnets higher roots is given .
The earlier roots are numerically , tabulated for four different depths of the ocean for the types lnvolving tesseral harmonics of rank 1 and 2 , these types presenting special interest in connection with the diurnal and semi-diurnal forced tides respectively .
The types of fres oscillation are found to be of two classes , distinguishable by their limiting forms -period is indefinitely prolonged .
In the former class the oscillatory when the period of rotation becomes infinitely long , while in the latter the " " speed\ldquo ; of the oscillation always bears a finite ratio to the angular velocity of rotation , so that the oscillation will be replaced by a steady motion when the velocity of rotation is reduced to zero .
In dealing with the forced oscillations , the theorem of Laplace that in an ocean of uniform depth there will be no diurnal rise and fall at the surface is obtained and generalised as follows : an oc of uniform depth the tides due a disturbing potcntial of and rank will involve no rise and fall at the surface if the period of the disturbing force be sidereal days .
A givell by Professor Darwin with reference to explession of the semi-dinrnal tides in finite terms , as also Laplace 's solution of the problem of the diurnal tides in an ocean of variable depth , is found to admit of similar generalisation .
The general problem of the forced tides dne to any disturbing force derivable from a potential function in the cases where infinite series are required the solution is treated analytically , and is further illustrated by numerical examples typical of the leading tidal constituents which occur on the earth , the results where sible being compared with those obtained by other methods .
On of making Magnets independent of Changes of ture ; and some Experiments upon Abnormal Negative Coefficients in IIagnets By J. ASHWORTH , B.Sc. by ARTHUR SCHUSTER , F.B.S. Received October 29 , \mdash ; Read December The present investigation , which has been carried otlt in he Physical Laboratory of the Owens College , ]fanchester , was underat Professor Schuster 's suggestion with the objeot of ascel.taining kinds of iron and steel are least liable to a change of magnetic intensity under moderate fluctuations of temperatnre .
Spccimens of steeIs containing severally , manganese , cobalt , and nickel , also cast irons , of blends of pig irons , and independ of Changes of Temper different percentages of carbon , procured from a number of different English and Scotch firms .
The size of these specimens in gcnel'al about 15 cm .
long and 1 or 2 thick , but as it was not uniform the dimensions and weight in grams of each are glven 11 the accompanying table , coInmns I , II , and III .
In column has been entered the dimension ratio , i.e. , the rabio of the Ctthb to the diameter breadth , so a comparison may more tently be made of the netic behaviour of two specimens .
For thin rods , Cancani* fillds that increase of ratio tends to diminish the temperature coefficient of a magnet .
The urse of an experiment was as follows:\mdash ; The rod ' bar in its normal state , or fter being hardened or annealed as required , was magnetised between the poles of a powerful electroexcited by a battel'y of cells .
The was then fixed rigidly in horizontal tube , throu llich t of cold water and steam could be alternately passed .
The tube and its contents were placed a convenient distance from a sensitive deadbeat magnetometer and at right to the magnetic meridian .
The deflections of the netometer needle were read by the usual nlirro and scale , the distnnce of the scale from the mirrol beino metrc , from the dings w deduced directly the temperature ient and total ] loss of magnetism .
As the deflections were never more a few degrees of arc the their tangcnts were virtually equivalent .
The intensity of sation in C. .
S. units or magnetic moment per unit volume , not equired , approximately determined from the in force , , was considered hout as constant equal to C.G.S. ullit ttnd nlso , the dellsity , llliformly to be signiiies the mass in the from centre of the magnet to the tometer needle ; the ) length of the , and the deflection .
The process of heating and cooling the magnet was continued until intensity fiuctuated ween two nearly constalTt vlues colTesponding to the temperatures of the cold water and steatn .
The icnt given in the cighth column was then cnlcul } values in the tion ncani , 'Atti della R. Acc .
dei Lincci , ' ( 4 ) , 3 , pp. ) , lS87 ; ' , 1887 .
the ctlstomay lnode of writing this with preceding cocificient , ; and , hence , a coeff clent illdicotes of magnelic intcnsity with increase of .
J. R. Ashworth .
Methods of Jlagnets The irreversible loss of original magnetic inteusity which results from a series of heatings and ] ings is tabulated under the heading / 3 in being calculated from the formula , ere the final and initial intensities .
The limits of temperature and in these experiments were to C. and about 10 C. , giving a range of or The rade scale of temperatures and the C.G.S. system of units are to be understood rhroughout .
In every case a record has been kept of the scale eadings at the temperatures and during the progress of the operations of and , and the example bear cited may be taken as typical .
The table which is annexed gives a synopsis of the resuIts ed. Each umber in the first column represents a separate piece of iron or steel , but where comparative tests of the same material desired , as , ' example , the cast irons , when annealed or hardened , the precaution was aken to employ two pieces of origina sing.le rod .
TlJu s Nos. 15 and 16 are two parts of the same rod cut through the middle , and similarly with Nos. 17 and 18 and others .
In the first place , several varietics of were tested .
No. 1 is a steeI from Sheffield , ] ) ] iedspecia ] for .
magnets ; Nos. 2 and 3 Hadfield 's well-known non-magnetic steel ; the next four are tungsten steels , of which Nos. 6 and 7 are as Mushet 's , having the property of hardening evelllvllen cooled slowly .
These were both from the rod ; No. 214 Mr. J. R. Ashworth .
Methods of making Mugnets netised at the air temperature ; No. 7 was maoe red hot and owed to cool whilst in he magnetic field .
No. 8 , a specimen of cobalt steel , was kindly upplied by Mr. Hadfield , and is probably unique .
All of these and the first example of nickel steel , No. 9 on the ] , are SbeffieId steeIs .
Attention was then directed chiefly to three classes : Nickel steels , cast ironH , and steel pianoforte wires .
Nickel Steels.\mdash ; The first of these , No. 9 , is a crucible steel from Sheffield , containing per cent. of nickel and per cent. of carbon .
The ncxt two are from Scotland .
They contain per cent. of nickel and per cent. of carbon .
Nos. 12 , 13 , and 14 are :dso from Scotland , and contain 3 per cent. and 27 per cent. of nickel .
They were kindly supplied by Mr. Riley , of the GIasgow Iron and Steel Company .
The behaviour of the last three was remarkable , hardened they exhibited a small , coefficient .
heating and cooling they continuously lost magnetism for the first rhree adternations ; at the fourth and fifth and ' there was hardly any change of intensity ; afterwards a small ease of intensity with rise of temperature and decrease with fall of temperature regularly took place .
In the specimen containing 3 per cent. of nickel these operations caused a total loss of less than 50 cent. of the original netic intensity .
This same piece was then annealed and magnetised ; the coefficient was nofv positit.e , the intensity ather h , and the total loss 30 per cent. On rehaldening the cvents first described were reproduced , the negative coefficient and } total loss being almost ] as before .
It is likely that by carefully adjusting the degree of hal'dness in this kind of steel a zero coefficient could be obtained .
The 27 per cent. nickel alloys , after in cold water , became almost non-magnetic , as discovered by Dr. John Hopkinson , it only in this state that they were tested .
No. 13 was the air temperature ; No. 14 at .
All the othex examples of nickel steels had positive coeff1cients .
Cast \mdash ; Specimens of grey cast iron , as used for general castings at different times and of different blends of pig behaved very similarly .
Magnctised as supplied did not take a high intensity , lost permanently SO to 40 per cent. of their netism , had a large temperature coefflcient .
When hardened theil ' magnetic properties were very different ; the intensity was then compal.able with that of tungsten steel , the total loss only about 15 cent. , and the tomperature coeiiicient as low as , or lower than , the examples of hardened steels .
In three different kinds of carehardened cast-iron magnets it was from to degree ccntigrade .
The average value for steel magnets of a similal *Hopkinson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 48 , Mr. J. R Ashworth .
Methods of mahng Magnets And it may be calculated that if No. 84 had just been dissolved so far as to have a dimension ratio of about 110 to 115 , it would have exhibited a zero coefficient .
Sincs the formsr seriss of wires with dimension ratios of this nitude would have had large negative coefficients , there must be some important physical or chemical differences between these and the former the character of the coefficient .
To complete the series of experiments on the influence of the di-nension atio it was desirable to perform the operation and to prove that an originally negative coefficient would become positive by increase of thickness .
Tbree pieces , , ( b ) , , of No. 33 wire were cut from the same coil , eacb 12 cm .
long , magnetised and then heated and cooled separately in the same way .
The coefficient was about - for each .
( n ) and ( b ) were then bound together with fine copper wire , Iike poles being in contiguity ; the coefficient as now determined was almost zero .
The piece ( c ) was then.ioined in the same manner to its two ellows and the coefficient again dete1mined ; it was The experiment is conclnsive , for it is allowable to regard bundles of wires as rods of equivalent cross section .
* Wires drawn to different thicknesses are not structurally sufficiently identical to allow of strictly comparable magnetic resuIts .
It is therefore more satisfactory to vary the dimension ratio altering the length and keeping the diameter constant .
A series of tests were conducted in this way .
Lengths of 3 , 6 , 9 , 12 , 15 , and 18 cm .
of No. 30 wire were cut from the same coil , separately magnetised , and the coefficient of each very carefully determined .
Table VI gives a complete view of the results .
* Von Waltenhofe ' Wien .
Ber ] .
, part 2 , p. 578 , 1863 .
Ascoli and Lori , 'R .
Accad .
dei Lincei , ' Rome ( 5 ) , 3 , , 1894 .
independent of Changps of Temperature .
The coefficient changos from positive to ativs between the lengths 6 and 9 cm .
And hence if the change between these points is nearly Iinear , a length of about 8 cm .
should have a zero coeffioient , and ib might also be calculated that the psrmanent loss vould be .
A fresh length of exactly 8 cm .
was cut from the same coil of and was found to have a coefficient of nnd a permanent loss of .
A piece of this , a very little less than 8 cm .
long , would without doubt , have a strictly zero coefficienb .
There are thus two practicable ways of obtaining zero temperatnre coefficients , either ( 1 ) by altering the hardness , or ( 2 ) by ltering the dimension ratio ; and the latter may be effected by arying the diameter for a constant length , or the length for a contant ( liameter as may be the more convenient .
In addition , the material of the magnet is made must have certain chemical and physical properties , not yet determined , of which , as far as some experiments I have made can decide , the physical rather than the chemical perties are the more important .
Some of the results in Tables , and VI are here ] ) lotted as and exhibit interesting features .
The curve of the relation of coefficient to dimension ratio ( diametel .
COIlstant ) from the data of Table , Diagram I , curve ( 1 ) , has a double inflexion between which it crosses the axis independent of Changes of Temperature .
ordinates it is easy to estimate what may be called the " " tiharacteristic\ldquo ; temperature coefficient and permanent loss for this kind of wire .
It may be inferred that in general the temperature effects upon magnets are principally influenced by the demagnetising factor a considerable range of dimension ratios , and beyond that range by the natul.e of the material .
In the fourth the curves of initial and final intensities are plotted with dimension ratios as abscissae , and they resemble so closely the curve traced in the same way by for steel of ' : blue annealed\ldquo ; temper , that it is very probable this is temper givetl to the music wiros upon which these experiments have been made .
The chief points elicited by this inves may now be summarised : \mdash ; 1 .
The temperature coefficient is generally least in fbe hardest irons and steels , and is particularly small in hardened cast iron .
Certain hardened nickel steels have very small negative 2 .
The of negative coefficients in music wires .
3 .
Change of the sign of the coefficient by alteration of ( a ) tempel and ( b ) ratio , and hence methods of obtaining zero coefficients .
4 .
Some relations betweenthe dimensionratio and self-demagnetising factor , temperature coefficient , and permanent loss of magneGism after alternate heatings and coolings .
An important consideration in any practical application to magnetic instruments of magnets with zero coefficients is the constancy of the zero state .
It is not yet possible to speak precisely on this poin , but two wires which had been prepared by adjustment of temper to have zero coefficients in June , 1896 , and since then had been lying on a shelf , and in the vicinity of other magnets , when tested nine months later , had not ] tered so much as to have a coefficient of

