571 The Action of Pituitary Extracts upon the Kidney .
By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. , and P. T. Herring .
( Received May 2 , \#151 ; Read May 3 , 1906 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) Intravenous injections of saline extract of the infundibular part of the pituitary body produce dilatation of kidney vessels accompanied by increased flow of urine ; i.e. , the extract lias a diuretic action.* With the first injection this result is accompanied by the rise of blood-pressure and contraction of systemic arteries described originally by Oliver and Schafer , f and since confirmed by various observers .
With subsequent injections ( if the first injection were not too small in amount ) administered within a certain interval of time after the first one , the diuresis is usually attended not by a rise of blood-press ur , t but by a fall ( depressor effect).S This fact furnishes evidence that the diuresis is independent of the effects upon blood-pressure and leads one to suppose that it is produced by a special constituent of the extract .
This conjecture is confirmed by the result of treating the extract with a peptic digestive fluid or with hydrogen peroxide .
These agents tend to abolish the rise of blood-pressure which is produced by a first injection , but leave the diuretic effect of the extract unaltered .
Reducing agents and the action of tryptic digestive fluid leave all the active constituents of the extract apparently unaffected .
The diuretic as well as the pressor and depressor constituents of the extract are not destroyed by boiling .
They dialyse through parchment paper .
They are insoluble in absolute alcohol and ether .
Occasionally , especially with large doses of the extract , the diuretic effect fails to show itself .
This appears to be due to the kidney vessels participating in the general vascular constriction which is caused by the \#166 ; extract .
More often such constriction of renal vessels is only temporary , and gives place to dilatation with free flow of urine .
Hypodermic injections produce effects similar to those caused by intra* See Schafer and Magnus , 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' p. ix , in ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 27 , 1901 .
t ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1895 , vol. 18 .
X W. H. Howell , ' Journ. Exp. Medicine , ' vol. 3 , 1898 .
S Schafer and Vincent , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 25 .
VOL. LXXVII.--B .
2 T 572 The Action of Pituitary Extracts upon the Kidney .
venous injection , but of a far less marked character and coming on only gradually and after a long interval .
Introduction of the extract into the stomach is followed by even less noticeable effects .
It is inferred that the active constituents are not absorbed by the gastric mucous membrane with sufficient rapidity to produce the usual symptoms .
Intravenous injections of extracts from the anterior or epithelial lobe of the pituitary body do not produce diuresis : these extracts exhibit no physiological activity .
It is concluded that the infundibular part of the gland produces an internal secretion which passes into the blood and which , both indirectly owing to its general action upon the vascular system and directly by its special action on the renal vessels and renal epithelium , assists in promoting and regulating the secretion of urine ; in other words , the internal secretion of the gland is ancillary to the renal functions .
Finally the relations of the pituitary body to the functions of the suprarenal and thyroid glands and to the production of acromegaly are briefly discussed .

