Influence of the Galvanic Current , fyc .
HI " On the Influence of the Galvanic Current on the Excita- ' bility of the Motor Nerves of Man .
" By Augustus Waller , M.D. , and A. de Watteville , M.A. , B.Sc. Communicated by J. S. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 2 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the experiments described in this paper is to demonstrate on the living nerves of man , alterations of excitability during and after the passage of a galvanic current , and to determine how far such alterations concord with the results obtained by Pfliiger and other physiologists on the exsected frog 's nerve .
In order to subject the nerve to the influence of a " polarising " current , and to test its excitability by means of induction currents , the secondary coil is introduced into the galvanic circuit , so that the points of entrance and exit of the two currents ( galvanic and induced ) coincide at the two electrodes .
One electrode , N , is applied over the nerve , the other , F , to any distant part of the body .
The density of the current which passes in the nerve is much greater in the " polar " region ( that is , immediately under the electrode N ) than in the adjacent region , which may be termed the " peri-polar " zone , and the authors ' experiments go to prove that these two regions are to be physiologically distinguished by the fact that their electrotonic states are opposed .
The authors observe that the excitatory effect of an induction current is increased during the passage of a galvanic current in the same direction , diminished during its passage in an opposite direction , that the increase is greater when both currents are directed from F to N than when both are directed from N to F , and that the diminution is greater when the induction current is from F to N and the galvanic current from N to F than when these two currents flow in the reverse direction .
These results admit of a complete explanation , for which the grounds are stated in the paper .
During the passage of the galvanic current from F to N katelectrotonus is set ' up in the polar region and anelectrotonus in the peri-polar region ; during the passage of a galvanic current from N to F the polar region is in anelectrotonus , the peri-polar in katelectrotonus .
At the passage of the induction current from F to N excitation is made in the polar region , at its passage from N to F in the peri-polar region .
Some subsidiary phenomena are discussed , and an experimental proof is given of the physiological reality of the above changes .
In addition to the induction current the authors have used the 2 c VOL. XXXIII .
Mr. J. B. Power .
[ Feb. 16 , make and break of the battery current as the test of excitability .
They find that the effect of the make excitation is increased when it falls upon a katelectrotonic region , polar or peri-polar , that the effect of the break excitation is diminished when it occurs in an anelectrotonic region , polar or peri-polar , and that increase and diminution are more marked in the case of the polar than that of the peri-polar region .
They also tested the polar region by mechanical excitation , and obtained evidence of increased excitability at the kathode , of diminished excitability at the anode .
The authors have also observed after-effects " of polarisation corresponding with the after-effects of electrotonus in the frog 's nerve as described by Pfliiger .
The experiments were for the most part made on the peroneal nerve , which was selected on account of its superficial course , and the facility with which the muscular responses could be recorded graphically .
IV .
" On the Excretion of Nitrogen by the Skin .
" By J. Byrne Power , L.C.P.I. Communicated by Professor Emerson Reynolds , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1882 , During the years 1877-78 , I conducted a series of experiments on the excretion of nitrogen by the skin .
Some of the data then obtained were communicated at the Dublin Meeting of the British Association , but I have since extended the inquiry , and now beg to submit an account of the investigations .
\gt ; The results obtained by various experiments as to the existence of nitrogen in the sweat have been contradictory .
Voit , * Rank , * Parks , t and others , relying on indirect methods , have denied its existence , finding that the quantity excreted by the kidneys and intestinal tract was equal to , and in some cases even exceeded , that ingested , therefore leaving no room for any excretion by the skin .
On the other hand , Anselmius , J Berzelius , S Favre , || Funke , ^f and * " Schmidt 's Jahrb .
, " Bd .
cxvii , pp. 1\#151 ; 10 .
Voit made further experiments on doves with confirmatory results .
On the other hand , Seegen and Nowak made subsequent experiments upon dogs with opposite results ; these again are contra-vented by Gt-ruber ( " Virchow and Hirsch , Jahrgang , " Bd .
I , 1881 , p. 163 ) .
I do not myself believe that experiments on the lower animals are conclusive on this point in human physiology .
t " The Lancet , " 1871 , vol. i , p. 400 .
$ Berzelius , " Traits de Chimie .
" Traduit par M. Esslenger .
Tom. vii , p. 334 .
Paris : 1833 .
S Op. cit. , p. 325 .
|| " Archiv Gen. de Med. , " 1853 , Tom. ii , pp. 1\#151 ; 20 .
If " Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Schweissecretion .
" Moleschott 's " LTn ter sue hunger ) sir Naturlehre , " iv , 36 .

