II .
" On the Lunar-diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Declination , with special regard to the Moon 's Declination .
" By G. NEvMAYER .
Communicated by the President .
Received March 11 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The hourly records of the magnetic declination systematically kept at the Flagstaff Observatory at AIelbourne , Victoria , during the period from the 1st of May 1858 to the 28th of February 1863 , have been discussed by the author , with a view to determine the lunar-diurnal variation to which that magnetic element is subject .
The results arrived at in the course of this discussion elicit , he believes , facts hitherto unnoticed , to which it seems desirable that the attention of scientific men should be directed .
The process employed in reducing the observations was identical with that generally adopted in such cases .
The disturbed observations were first eliminated , by rejecting all that differed from the final normal belonging to the same solar hour by more than a certain separating value , which was taken at 3'61 minutes of arc .
The elimination of the larger disturbances having been thus effected , from every remaining reading ( R ) of the magnet 's direction the final normal ( N ) belonging to that solar hour was subtracted , so that the residue R--N is devoid of the influence of the solardiurnal variation .
This residue is positive when the north end of the needle is to the east of its mean position , and negative in the contrary case .
The number of observations at command amounted to 38,194 , of which 4178 single observations were excluded from the discussion as being beyond the assumed limit used for separating the greater magnetic disturbances , leaving 34,016 available for the purpose of determining the lunar-diurnal variation .
The treatment of the residues with a view to classification according to lunar hours presented no particular novelty .
It may be mentioned , however , that before entering on any general discussion , every month 's result was calculated separately .
The values for the various months were afterwards arranged , irrespectively of the year , in two groups , viz. Sun South ( October to March ) and Sun North ( April to September ) .
Thus the mean lunar-diurnal variation was obtained separately for each half of the year , as well as for the whole year .
On examining the results , irregularities in the lunar-diurnal variation presented themselves which seemed to show that that variation depended in some degree on the moon 's position with reference to the equator , on the circumstance whether her declination were north or south .
Accordingly the whole series of observations were rearranged in groups , " Declination of the Moon South " and " Declination of the Moon North , " so as to cause her declination to be divided between the hours of the day , all those days being rejected on which the moon was close to the equator .
The 118 groups of lunar-diurnal variation thus formed were subsequently classified according to whether the sun 's declination was south or north .
A Table was thus formed giving for each lunar hour the lunar-diurnal variation of the magnetic declination separately under each of nine conditions formed by combining each of the three conditions , Sun South and North , Sun South , Sun North , with each of the three Moon South and North , Moon South , Moon North .
The results given numerically in the Table were also laid down graphically in curves .
A glance at the curves shows that the lunar-diurnal variation must be regarded as being influenced by both the sun and the moon ; for it is seen that in case the declinations of the two bodies are of the same name , the curves show greater regularity than in the contrary case .
The question whether during the winter season any lunar-diurnal variation can be traced at all can , the author conceives , no longer be entertained if we pay due attention to the facts which may be gleaned from the Table .
Indeed it is afterwards shown , in discussing the individual years of observation , that in some cases the lunar-diurnal variation manifests itself in a very striking manner during the winter months .
On examining the results of the inquiry for the several years of observation , obvious differences are recognized on comparison .
This was especially remarkable as regards the year 1861 , which was the more striking as the year 1860 did not exhibit any such extraordinary deviations from the mean values .
At first some error was suspected in the deduction of the results ; but a perfectly independent and fresh discussion gave results agreeing in the main points with those previously arrived at .
In the course of the year 1861 the instruments previously in use were replaced by fresh ones obtained from Munich , which came into use for regular registration at the beginning of June .
Though every care was taken to ensure uniformity of registration , it was deemed satisfactory to repeat the discussion , including that part only of 1861 in which the old instruments were employed ; and accordingly the lunar-diurnal variation was discussed , with special regard to the moon 's declination , for the year May 1860 to April 1861 , and likewise for the year May 1858 to April 1859 ; but it was still found that towards the latter part of the former period the anomalies above pointed out made themselves clearly felt .
The results for the years 1860 and 1861 were given numerically in a special Table , and delineated in curves .
In conclusion , the author expressed a hope that the few facts he had brought forward might operate as an inducement to those who are engaged in similar pursuits , to enter upon such a laborious task as that of classifying magnetic observations for the purpose of examining into the law and nature of the lunar-diurnal variation , according to the moon 's position north or south of the equator .

