VI .
Extract of a Letter from Stephen Williams , M. B. F. R. S. concerning the Viper-catchers , ( mentioned in No 443 .
of these Transactions ) and the Efficacy of Oil of Olives in curing the Bite of Vipers .
Plymouth , July 2 , 1735 .
-WIlliam Oliver , in Presence of several Gentlemen of the Faculty of Physic , suffered himself , on June 26 , 1735 .
to be bit by a Female Viper ; which being enraged , fixed her Fangs in the middle Part of his Fore-finger .
Blood soon issued out at the Wounds : But that the Poison might more strongly appear , the same Viper immediately bit a Pigeon in the Breast , which expired in less than half an Hour .
Another Pigeon was also bit by the same Viper , which expired also , though not so soon as the first .
Mr. Oliver immediately complained of an acute Pain in the wounded Part .
It soon looked red , then became of a livid Colour : His Finger swelled to a great Size , and he could not bend it .
Soon upon this his Hand also began to swell : He complained of Faintness , and Pains flying to his Arm , Shoulder , and Armpit .
In half an Hour 's Time from the Bite , we persuaded him to try his Specific ; which being applied , and strongly rubbed into the Part affected , procured him immediate Ease .
His Pain lessened , his Finger became flexible , his Spirits seemed more cheerful : The Specific being several times repeated and applied , his Pains gradually diminished .
The next Day , June 27 , his Finger and Hand remained tumefied , but without Pain : The Skin began to appear yellow , and Pustles appeared , like Bladders , on his Finger ; which being pricked , emitted a sanious Liquor .
In two Days time all his Symptoms vanished , and he became perfectly well .
June 30 , the Gentlemen of the Faculty met again , when we tried several Experiments on Puppies , Cats , and Pigeons ; wherein we found the Efficacy of Mr. Oliver 's Specific , and gave the Company great Satisfaction .
I therefore ... . .
recommend him to Lovers of Natural Philosophy , and such who study the Benefit of Mankind .
I think he deserves Encouragement , that the Specific may be more universally known .
Ste. Williams , M. B. F. R. S.

