378 Dr. H. L. Duke .
Relation of Fowls and [ May 9 prunase .
This conclusion is perhaps more in harmony with that indicated above that vicianase may be present together with linase .
Such briefly are the problems before us .
It may be that the differences observed are in some cases due to faulty determinations and much remains to be done in establishing valid methods of determining enzymic activity .
But differences such as we have referred to are met with so constantly that it is clear that they correspond to actual variations in character and proportion of the enzymes present in plants .
Observations on Howls and Ducks in Uganda with Relation to Trypanosoma gallinarum and T. gambiense .
By Dr. H. L. Duke .
( With a Note by Miss Muriel Robertson .
) ( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received May 9 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 9 .
] In the course of a considerable number of experiments , carried out to investigate the duration of infectivity of antelopes for T. gambiense , Uganda fowls were employed to nourish the flies during the earlier days of the experiments .
The birds have been shown by the Commission of 1908-10 to harbour T. gallinarum in a certain number of instances , although nothing was known concerning the intermediate host of this trypanosome .
In the course of routine dissections of laboratory-bred flies from these experiments a curious crithidial type of flagellate was noticed in the hinder part of the mid-gut , similar to that reported recently from this laboratory by Captain A. D. Eraser and myself .
These flagellates must have been derived either from the antelope upon which the flies originally fed or from the cock .
In morphology and movement they were distinguishable at once from developmental stages of T. gambiense in As some of the laboratory antelope had been found to be infected with T. ingens it appeared possible that the flagellates might represent developmental stages of this trypanosome .
On the other hand suspicion fell upon T. gallinarum , although at the time microscopical examination of the fowls used had always proved negative .
To solve the point clean laboratory-bred flies were fed upon the suspected cocks , with the result that after two failures the crithidise were obtained in VOL. LXXXV .
Table I. Expt. No. Number of days flies fed upon cock .
Expt. No. of cock .
Examination of cock 's blood for T. gallinarum .
Flies showing crithidi\#174 ; .
Day after first feed on cock .
1 1st day .
dumber of flies 30th day .
| Dissected .
158 17 110 + 0 56 52 56 227 21 210 + 1 18 87 70 87 214 27 110 + 0 55 52 55 Totals 1 198 174 198 Remarks.\#151 ; The flagellates were present in the hinder part of the mid-gut only , and in large numbers .
Table II .
Expt. No. Number of days fed on cock .
Expt. No. of cock .
Examination of cock 's blood for T. gallinarum .
Flies showing crithidi\#174 ; .
Day after first feed on cock .
1 1st day .
dumber of flies 30th day .
1 .
Dissected .
Cage originally fed upon .
93 12 110 + 1 14 54 43 54 Reedbuck 2431 .
383 26 384 + 1 54 112 98 112 Monkey 199 ( .
) 394 17 431 \#151 ; 3 14 , 35 , 49 91 66 88 " 392 ( arsenic ) 428 12 462 \#151 ; 1 4 119 66 118 , , 199 ( .
) 429 11 465 \#151 ; 1 19 89 63 89 " 199 " 453 17 460 + 1 27 101 75 100 " 401 " Totals 8 566 411 561 Remarks.\#151 ; The positive fly of Expt. 453 showed an infection of the proventriculus .
In all other infected flies , flagellates were only present in the hinder region of the mid-gut .
1912.1 Ducks to T. gallinarum and T. gambiense .
379 380 Dr. H. L. Duke .
Relation of Fowls and [ May 9 , the fly .
The connection between T.gallinarum and these crithidise was further established on several occasions by the subsequent discovery of the trypanosomes on repeated examination of the cock 's blood .
Owing to the extreme difficulty of making certain that any given fowl was not infected with this trypanosome , it was not found practicable to conduct any systematic experiments on its development in G. The actual day of development of any given infection cannot be established , as in every case the flies were a considerable time on the infected eock .
Although the blood of all the fowls employed was examined on numerous occasions , T. gallinarum was not always to be found in those birds which were proved by fly-dissection to be infected .
The trypanosomes are very rare in the peripheral circulation , and even on centrifugalisation of considerable quantities of blood after death were only obtained in very small numbers .
The preceding tables show the cycle and other experiments in which these crithidise were seen in the course of the fly-dissection .
In Table I the flies were fed upon infected cocks only .
In Table II the flagellates were found incidentally in the course of cycle-experiments with T. gamlriense .
The following Description of the Morphology of the Flagellates has been most kindly drawn up for me by Miss Robertson , to whom all positive flies were handed over :\#151 ; " In many respects the appearance of T. gallinarum in G. palpalis is exceedingly characteristic .
The infection is rarely very numerous , seldom assuming anything like the virulence of T. gambiense or T. nanUm in the same situation .
" The trypanosomes are , as a rule , situated pretty far back in the alimentary tract .
The mid-gut of the fly , that is to say , the region between the proventriculus and the origin of the Malpighian tubules may conveniently be divided into three portions , anterior , middle , and posterior .
The infection very rarely proceeds further forward than the middle portion. .
On one occasion only were these trypanosomes found in the anterior portion and in the proventriculus .
" The motion of the flagellate in the live state is very striking , and at once arrests the attention of any observer accustomed to the appearance of gut-forms of mammalian trypanosomes .
The body is in the vast majority of the forms quite stiff through about two-thirds of its length , and is often broad and relatively massive , though the breadth is subject to variation .
The flagellum is much thicker than in mammalian trypanosomes , and has a lashing motion , which drags the organism forward with a rapid movement of translation .
This progression takes place in straight lines , and in the 1912 .
] Ducks to T. gallinarum and T. gambiense .
381 more slender drawn-out individuals may occasionally be reversed in direction .
" As it is impossible to tell when the flies first received the infecting trypanosomes , I have no information as to the exact sequence of forms in the cycle .
The main outlines are , nevertheless , pretty obvious , and the massive broad forms gradually give place to smaller and more slender crithidial individuals , some of which , in what appears to be the later flies , show a considerable lengthening out of the body .
" As will be seen from the drawings ( Plate 9 ) , true trypanosome-phases have not been observed .
Multiple division takes place , and is not by any means a very rare occurrence , although here , as in most trypanosome-cycles binary fission is the usual method of multiplication ( see figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , and 9 ) .
The process in question is rather irregular , and , after carefully studying a considerable number of these appearances , it becomes clear that it is a mere telescoping of successive binary divisions .
" The flagellate contains in the earlier infections a relatively large amount of dense protoplasm , and we have thus an illustration of the common biological process , whereby , in a cell encumbered with much protoplasm , the nuclear apparatus may undergo several successive divisions before the correlated splitting of the cell-body is accomplished .
" Morphology.\#151 ; The films were fixed wet , by dropping them face downwards on to Schaudinn 's fluid .
The stains used were iron-hsematoxylin , after Heidenhain 's method , and hsemalum .
" The protoplasm , especially in the broader forms , is very dense and granular , a feature which is somewhat less marked in the later stages , Unfortunately , this density of the protoplasm obscures the final cytological details to a greater or less extent .
" The trophonucleus is of a common trypanosome type , consisting of a large central karyosome surrounded by a clear space , which is bounded in turn by a delicate membrane ; fine rays pass from the karyosome to the membrane .
" The kinetonucleus ( centrosome of French and blepharoplast of German writers ) lies close to and generally in front of the trophonucleus .
It is relatively large , and presents the somewhat curious double appearance of two closely-apposed granules lying one behind the other .
This does not seem to be in any way a case of precocious division .
" In fig. 4 , where division is actually in process , and where the two kinetonuclei are still joined by the centrodesmose , they nevertheless preserve the double appearance , and , in a case of multiple fission figured { fig- 9 ) , the same thing is to be observed .
Moreover , the direction of the 382 Dr. H. L. Duke .
Relation of Fowls and [ May 9 , plane of division is at right angles to the split in the kinetonucleus .
In some of the latest stages of the material , namely , those from the proventriculus this is less apparent , and the kinetonucleus seems more compact ; still , even here the double nature of the structure can still be detected in most cases .
" The blepharoplast proper , i.e. the minute granule actually at the origin of the flagellum , is usually obscured , but can be seen in favourable specimens .
" Another structure not usually to be observed in trypanosomes , but which I have seen in the development stages of a massive trypanosome not unlike T. gallinarum in appearance , is a granule situated towards the posterior , i.e. antiflagellar , end of the cell .
This granule is not particularly small in size , but its outline is rarely very sharply defined ; in some instances it appears to be attached by a fine line to the nucleus or to the blepharoplast .
In some individuals there are two lines visible , one of which passes to the blepharoplast , the other to the nucleus .
Owing to the density of the protoplasm these lines are not very clearly visible , and can be observed only in the more favourable specimens .
" The granule , on the other hand , is a very fairly constant appearance , and divides at divisions ( figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , and 9 ) .
In , in the developmental stages in the leech , these appearances are much clearer and more perfectly defined .
In T. gallinarum the granule is not to be seen in the more slender stages .
" Figs. 1 , 2 , and 4 give an illustration of the more usual binary fission , the spindle of the trophonucleus shows the characteristic centrodesmose , but the finer details are never particularly clear .
" In conclusion , I may say that , while I have not so far met with a mixed infection , it appears that there would not be much likelihood of these forms passing undetected ; nevertheless , crithidial individuals appearing in a cycle of a mammalian trypanosome , where cocks ' blood had formed part df the food of the fly , would have to be rejected until confirmed from [ flies fed exclusively upon clean animals .
" Note.\#151 ; From the nature of the above infections , it appears that Glossina joalpalis is certainly not the normal host of this trypanosome , and probably not even a facultative host .
It is interesting to note in this connection that } a small Simulid fly ( species so far unidentified ) was found relatively frequently on the fowls in certain parts of Bugerere .
On one occasion at Endeba , where the fly was more especially numerous , one specimen was found well infected with a trypaniform flagellate .
The fowls in the enclosure were found to be infected with T. gallinaru .
The flagellates in the Simulid were of small size and mostly crithidial in type , though a few showed the nuclear relations characteristic of trypanosomes .
1912 .
] Ducks to T. gallmarum and T. gambiense .
" No connection between the fowl-parasite and that of the Simulid has been as yet established , but from the habits of the fly it is highly probable that it might play some part in the transmission of the 'trypanosome in question.\#151 ; Muriel Kobertson .
" Are Ducks capable of Acting as a Reservoir of T. gambiense ?
These experiments were undertaken on the same lines as those carried out by the 1908 to 1910 Commission with the Uganda fowl .
It seems possible that ducks might react differently to T. and throw some light on the part played by the enormous numbers of aquatic birds along the shores of Victoria Nyanza in relation to Sleeping Sickness .
Two Muscovite ducks were obtained from Mr. Walsh 's , farm , as wild birds were not procurable alive .
The method of procedure followed consisted in first feeding laboratory-bred flies upon the ducks to ascertain whether the latter harboured any natural infection .
The birds were then fed upon by infected flies and afterwards again tested with clean flies , and finally by blood inoculation into a susceptible animal .
The blood was also examined from time to time microscopically .
Are the newly arrived Ducks capable of Infecting Laboratory-bred Flies with Flagellates .
Experiment 153.\#151 ; From June 16 to 20 , 1911 , 45 clean laboratory-bred flies were fed upon the two ducks , two days on each bird .
The flies were then fed for 27 days on a clean monkey and finally dissected .
No flagellated flies were found .
Table III .
Expt. No. Period for which flies fed upon Duck 144 .
Number of flies .
Length of experiment in days .
Result .
1st day .
30th day .
Dissected .
Containing flagellates .
193 July 10\#151 ; 17,1911 64* 54 64 0 50 236 Aug. 1\#151 ; 3 , 1911 ... 81* 63 81 0 36 \#151 ; 299 Aug. 16\#151 ; 19 , 1911 89* 82 89 0 42 \#151 ; 594 Jan. 1\#151 ; 16 , 1912 ... 111* 63 111 0 32 Totals 345 252 345 0 * Fed upon clean monkey throughout the experiment .
Hemarks.\#151 ; All these experiments proved negative , no flagellates being found in the dissected flies .
384 T. gallinarum and T. gambienge in Fowls and Ducks .
From June 19 to 24 , 1911 , duck Experiment 144 was fed upon daily by flies known to be infective for T. gambiense .
After a lapse of 16 days laboratory-bred flies were fed upon Duck 144 , as shown in the preceding table .
On January 16 , 1912 , Duck 144 was killed and 6 c.c. of its citrated blood injected into a monkey .
This monkey remained healthy and never showed trypanosomes in its blood .
Conclusions .
1 .
That T. gallinarum can multiply in the gut of G. palpalis , although this fly is probably not the normal host .
2 .
That Muscovite ducks are not capable of acting as a reservoir for T. gambiense .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
The figures were all drawn at a multiplication of approximately 3000 diameters with the aid of the drawing apparatus of Abbe .
Fig. 1 .
Division stage showing the double appearance of the kinetonucleus and the two trophonuclei .
Fig. 2 , Division stage showing centrodesmose of the trophonucleus spindle .
Fig. 3 .
Slender long form .
Fig. 4 .
Division stage showing centrodesmose of the kinetonuclear division apparatus ; note double appearance of the kinetonuclei .
Fig. 5 .
Short , broad form from proventriculus .
Figs. 6 and 7 .
Other forms from proventriculus .
Fig. 8 .
Typical broad form showing posterior granule and lines to tropbonucleus and kinetonucleus .
Fig. 9 .
Multiple division .
Figs. 10 and 11 .
Very typical forms from the ordinary type of gut infection .
Figs. 12 and 13 .
Slender forms from proventriculus ; these forms are also found further back in the mid and hind gut .
Dwhe .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B. Vol. 9 .
n Wik M.R.del .
mW W ' w Wesfc .
Kewman 11th .

