]\gt ; XXVIL On the Nature of the producing the JCotion of a Body exposed to ]of Heat and Light .
ARTHUR SCHUSTpR , Ph. D. , Demonstrator in the 'sical of Owens College .
Communicated ?
BALFOUR STEWART , F.R. Rcceived February March MB .
CROOKES has lately drawn attention to the mechanical action of a source of light on delicately suspended bodies in .
I have made a few experiments which will , I think , throw some light on the cause of these phenomena , and assist us in the explanation of the manifold and striking experiments made by Mr. CROOKES .
Whenever we observe a tending to drive a body in certain direction we are sure to find a force equal in amount acting in the opposite direction on the body or on the bodies from which the force emanates .
It was with the view of finding the seat of this reaction that I have made the experiments described in these pages .
If the force is due directly to radiation , the reaction will be on the radiating body ; if , on the other hand , it is due to any interior action , such as the one suggested by Professor REYNOLDS , the reaction will bc on the exhausted vessel .
the bodies on which the force acts .
I have been able to test this by experiment , and have found that the action and reaction are entirely between the light bodies suspended vacuo and the exhausted vessel .
The strength of the leaction is a measurable quantity , and hence we are able to calculate the absolute force acting on the bodies .
Description of ) eriments .
The instrument best fitted for an experimental ation of this kind is the one which has been called " " Radiometer\ldquo ; by Mr. ROOKS .
hesc instruments have been made in great perfection by Mr. GEISSLER , of Bonn , under the name of ' ' Light-mills.\ldquo ; It is needless to describe the instlument in detail , as it does not materially differ from Mr. CROOKES'S radiometer .
bodies are driven lound continuously by the differential action of a soulce of light and heat on their faces , one of which is covered with lampblack .
The motion is in such a direction that the faces covered with lampblack recede from the light when they are turned towards it .
vessel containing the " " -mill\ldquo ; ends above and below in a vertical tube of about centimctre diameter .
A wire was laid round the tube near the top , and then brought over the top of the vessel in such a way that it a hook which a cocoon-fibre could be drawn .
A concave was attached to this wire .
The instrument was then suspended by a bifilar suspension from the top of a glass leceiver which could be exhausted .
It was found , howeYcl , that the amount of air in the receiver did not affcct the experiments in .
Th lower DR. ARTHUR SCHUSTER ON TBB FORCE PRODUCING THE end of the\ldquo ; light-mill , \ldquo ; which was suspended in this way , was dipped into a small beaker , filled with oil , in ordel to steady the motion of the vessel and to bring it soon to its position of rest .
The of the suspended vessel was read off on a scale by means of a dot of light concentrated by the concave mirror attached to the vessel .
The time of vibration of the vessel was found to be about twenty-two seconds for a complete oscillation .
The logarithmic decrement was found to be about The beam of light of an oxyhydrogen lamp was concentrated by means of a lens , and the vessel was placed at such a distance from the focus that the cone of lightjust enclosed the whole of the revolving mill .
In this position the instrument showed the greatest ensitiveness .
The " " light-mill\ldquo ; revolved about 200 times in one minute .
The light was cut off at the beginning of the experiment by means of a screen , and the position of rest of the glass vessel was read off by means of the dot of light on the scale .
The screen was then suddenly removed , and in every case a large deflection of the lass yessel containing the light-mill was observed .
The vessel was deflected in a direction opposite to that in which the mill turned .
When the velocity of the revolving mill had become constant , the outer vessel gradually came back to its original position of rest .
This is a fact of great tance , and considerable care was taken to find out with what degree of accuracy it could be established .
Owing to disturbances produced by various causes , the zero could never be determined within two or three divisions of the scale .
The position of rest of the vessel when the mill was turning with constant velocity was always found to be within that distance from the original position of rest .
When the vessel containing the rotating " " light-mill " " had come to rest , the screen was suddenly replaced between the light and the mill .
The mill now gradually came to rest , and at the same time the vessel was driven away in the opposite direction to that in which it moved on starting the experiment .
The vessel , on stopping the light , was turned in the same direction in which the light-mi ] olved .
I shall give the readings of three experiments taken out of a great many made at different times arid with different intensity of 1 .
II .
III .
Position of rest ( light cut off ) .
Light suddenly turned on : successive elongations of the vessels containing the light-mill Position of rest ( mill turning with constant velocity ) .
suddenly cut off : enlongations of vessel MOTION OF A BODY EXPOSED TO RAYS OF HEAI AND LIGHT .
Discussion of Experiments .
In order to understand fully the meaning of these experiments I shall take the most general case , and assume that forces act on the " " light-mill\ldquo ; which are partly internal and partly external .
I call internal forces all forces which act between the mill and its enclosure .
We shall find that the experiments are not compatible with the existence of external forces .
Let be that part of the internal force and that part of the external force which is independent of the velocity of the " " light-mill.\ldquo ; It is found by experiment that , however small or large thewhole force is , the mill always acquires a constant velocity .
This velocity increases with the intensity of the force .
In order to express this condition analytically , we must assume the existence of forces which increase as the velocity increases , and which always act in the opposite direction to .
I shall again take the most general case , and assume that these forces , which are functions of the velocity , are partly internal and partly external .
The internal force may be expressed by .
That palt of the external force which depends on the velocity may be expressed by .
The whole force which possibly can act on the light-mill can therefore always be expressed by .
The speed at which the mill will revolve uniformly will be determined by the equation The force which acts on the enclosure is equal in amount , but opposite in direction , to the internal part of the whole force .
( Any direct action of the light on the enclosure is left out of account .
) The force on the enclosure is therefore expressed by .
When has become equal to the greatest possible speed corresponding to the whole force , this expression is proved by experiment to be zero , because then the vessel returns to the original position of rest .
Hence also which means that no external force acts on the ' light-mill , \ldquo ; as this equation is true for all intensities of light and therefore for all values of All the Forces acting on the Light-mill are internal .
The accuracy of this statement naturally rests on the accuracy with which it can be ascertained that there is no force acting on the vessel , when the speed of the mill has become uniform .
It can be easily seen from what I have already said about the constancy of the position of rest , and from the deflection caused by the internal forces , that the existence of an external force equal to 5 per cent. of the internal force could not have escaped observation ; and had this force been even less than half that amount , it would most likely have been detected .
We therefore have at present no evidence whatever of any force directly referable to radiation .
The motion in the light-mill is wholly due to the forces acting between the rQvolving mill and its enclosure .
It has not been the object of this investigation to find out what these forces are ; and I must leave it therefore to Professor REYNOLDS to show in how far the experiments agree with his theDry of the phenomenon .
I ought , however , to mention that on suggesting the experiments described above to him , he at once told me how the reaction would make itself apparent according to his theory .
His predictions have been fulfilled throughout .
It was also through his courtesy that I was enabled to work with the neat instrument made by Mr. GEISSLER , and I have had his valuable aid throughout this investigation .
It is evident that the experiments agree in detail with the fact that two internal forces exist : , independent of the velocity ; the other , , increasing as the velocity increases and acting in a direction opposite to that of .
The force acting on the vessel is the reaction of the force which moves the mill , and is therefore expressed by .
As long as , which vanishes with , increases , it has not yet arrived at the value yiven by the equation In that case is greater than and the vessel will be impelled in the negative direction , that is , in the direction opposite to that in which the mill revolves .
When the velocity of the mill has become constant , the force acting on the vessel is zero , and the vessel will therefore return to its position of rest .
When the light is suddenly removed , is suddenly removed , and the only force acting on the vessel is .
This force drives the vessel round in the opposite direction , that is , in the direction in which the mill is moving .
As the velocity diminishes this force diminishes lmtil it vanishes with the velocity .
The fact that , on suddenly removing the light , the deflection of the vessel was never found as large as when the light was turned on , is easily explained .
The mill acquires the maximum speed in a shorter time than that required to reduce the velocity to zero when the light is removed .
The force acting up to the time of the first elongation is smaller when the light is removed than when it is turned on , and hence the smaller elongation .
MOTION OF A BODY EXPOSED TO RAYS OF HEAT AND LIGHT .
Calculatron of the Intensity of the Force .
As it will be useful to those who are engaged in the explanation of these phenomena to know what is the strength of the force they have to account for , I have made an approximate calculation which will at any rate give an idea of the order of magnitude of the force .
From the largest deflections observed on turning the light on , I calculate that the integral couple twisting the mill round a vertical axis is equal to the couple produced by the deflection of the dot of through 125 scale divisions , owing to the bifilar suspension .
The scale was at a distance of about 1100 scale divisions from the mirror .
Considering that the dot of light moves through double the angle of deflection .
I find that is too great a value for the sine of the angle of deflection .
The couple produced by such a deflection is ( CLERK bIAXWELL , 'Electricity and bIagnetism ' ) In this equation and are the distances of the upper and lower ends of the two fibres from each other , is the vertical distance between the lines joining these upper and lower ends , ' is the weight of the suspended body , the angle of deflection .
In the experiments we have to give the following values to these constants ( the units are those of the centimetre-gramme system ) ; hence If is the pressure on unit of area of the wings of the mill , A the area of these wings , and the length of the arm of each wing , In Mr. GEISSLER'S light-mill , is approximately and ; hence The pressure on one square centimetre is therefore equal to the of the fifth part of a milligramme , or to grain .
The pressure on the wings of the light-mill was equal to that produced by weight of a film of water equal in thickness to the length of a wave of blue .
This is the greatest pressure which I have been able to produce by means of the lime-light .
* This number is too large .
See end of Appendix .
I have shown that an exterior force of 5 per cent. the amount of the interior force could have been detected .
There cannot exist , therefore , an exterior force exerting a greater pressure on the unit of area of the light-mill than the 500th part of a milligram .
According to Prof. MAXWELL'S theory of light , an exterior force should exist ; but this force would be smaller than the limits which we have given as having an appreciable effect on the experiments .
By concentrating the rays of solar light in the ratio of one square foot to a square centimetre , however , the pressure on that square centimetre would be equal to gramme , a quantity which could not escape observation .
I think that the experiments described in the foregoing pages are interesting , not only by showing that the forces investigated by Mr. CROOKES are interior forces ; but also by giving a method by means of which we are able to distinguish between such interior forces and forces directly referable to radiation .
We may thus hope to find out whether such a pressure as that indicated by MAXWELL'S electromagnetic theory of light really exists .
APPENDIX ( added Oct. 29 , 1876 ) .
It was suggested by Prof. MAXWELL to compare the motion of the glass vessel containing the radiometer with its equations of motion as deduced by him .
I have thelefore made a set of more careful experiments , and calculated from them , according to Prof. MAXWELL'S equations , the intensity of the force which acted on the vanes of the radiometer during my experiments .
The number obtained has of course no other value than that of giving us an idea of the approximate magnitude of the force , as we have no accurate knowledge of the intensity of radiation actually on the vanes .
My measurements show , however , that the motion of the vessel can be represented satisfactorily by a simple formula .
In order to deduce the equations of motion we shall , to simplify the calculation , make certain assumptions known to be only approximately correct .
The first of them is , that the force acts with constant intensity during the experiments .
The second is , that the resisting stress is proportional to the difference in the velocities of the radiometer and the vessel .
Let I and be the moments of inertia of the glass vessel and of the light-mill .
Let and be their angular displacement .
Let be the coefficient of damping between the mill and the vessel .
Let be the coefficient of damping between the enclosure of the light-mill and the outer vessel in which this enclosure is suspended .
Then if Hy is the force of restitution due to the bifilar suspension , the equations of motion 1 .
For the mill .
( 1 ) OF A BODY EXPOSED TO RAYS OF HEAT AND LIGHT .
2 .
For the enclosure I .
( 2 ) These equations can be easily integrated , yet it would be difficult to determine the constants occurring in the final equation .
If we consider , however , that is very small compared to I , and that , therefore , the velocity produced by the force on the mill is very great compared to that produced on the vessel , we can in equation ( 1 ) neglect in comparison with , and we then get as integral .
( 3 ) This equation means that the velocity of the mill gradually increases until it reaches the final velocity .
Putting the value of from ( 3 ) into ( 2 ) , we have I ( 4 ) The solution of this equation is , ( 5 ) with the conditions I ( 6 ) . . . . .
; ( S ) from ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) we can determine and I , as and are found by observation , and is given by the data of the bifilar suspension .
In order to determine from equation ( 8 ) we must find and B. For we have and This gives the boundary conditions , A . . . . .
( 9 ) .
( 10 ) Eliminating A and out of these equations , we get .
( 11 ) It is found by experiment that after a few swings the vessel vibrfttes round its position of rest .
The motion then is given by .
DR ARTHUR SCHUSTER ON THB FORCE PRODUCING THE If the time for the elongations is only given approximately , the elongations will determine A. For the first elongation we have , if the time is .
( 12 ) In this equation -A is put for B. we have for the first elongation , as the velocity is zero , .
( 13 ) The equations ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) will determine and .
They can , however , be into a more convenient form .
Eliminating out of ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) , and introducing a new variable , such that , we get .
( 14 ) We also get easily . .
( 15 ) Knowing , we shall be able to determine from ( 11 ) , and hence to calculate the force L. In the experiments actually made , 20 successive elongations were obseryed .
It was found that after the third the yessel vibrated round its position of rest .
All the elongations after the third were therefore used to determine the time of vibration and the logarithmic decrement .
Another set of observations was taken after the light had been removed , and the position of rest was determined in this way for the case in which no light falls on the mill .
In the bifilar suspension the distance between the two threads at the top was between the two threads at the bottom .
The vertical distance from the top to the bottom of the suspension was , and the weight of the vessel was .
The units used are those of the centimetre-gramme system .
We calculate from these data We find by experiment the time of half a vibration 11.03 , and the logarithmic decre- meant .
Hence we calculate quations ( and ( 7 ) give .
MOTION OF A BODY EXPOSED TO BAYS OF HEAT AND LIGHT .
Putting the value , and remembering that , we find ( 16 ) We now turn to the determination of from the successive elongations of the vessel , and from the approximate time which was observed we find in divisions of the scale .
The mean of two experiments gave for the first elongation .
Hence we calculate from ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) and From this we get in divisions of the scale .
Reducing to angular measure , we find The distance of the scale from the mirror was 1526 divisions of the scale .
In the calculation of we had to apply a correction , because the scale did not stand parallel to the mirror when the mirror was at rest .
This was done by multiplying with ( This number was obtained by measuring the angle of inclination of the scale .
) Putting this value of into ( 16 ) , we get From ( 10 ) we get ; and we have therefore now determined all the constants of the equation .
In order to see in how far the values obtained ctly represent the experiments , the second elongation was calculated by the formula to be divisions of the scale .
By experiments it was found to be 171 .
As the second elongation did not enter into any determination of the constants , the recment seems satisfactory .
Calculating the position of rest from the successive elongations when the mill was turning , and afterwards when the mill was at rest , a difference of division of the scale was noticed .
The vessel appeared to be deflected division of the scale in a direction opposite to that in which the mill was turning . .
the difficulty which besets the exact determination of the -point when the light is turned on the mill , owing to changes in the intensity of the light , external air-currents , \amp ; c. , we may regard the two positions of rest to be , as .
far as our experiment could determine them , identical .
The permanent deflection either way , if it existed , must , may say with certainty , have been smaller than 5 divisions of the scale .
The moment of any external force , if existing , must therefore have been smaller than , or less than 5 per cent. of the internal force .
In order to get a numerical value for the pressure on the unit of area of the of the mill , we must divide the couple by the length of the arms and the area of the wings .
The length of the area was approximately and the area ; hence the pressure on a square centimetre during the experiments was grammes , which is equal to the weight of a layer of water covering the surface , and equal in thickness to the length of a wave of ultra-violet .
The pressure is about double that determined by Mr. CROOKES in one of his experiments* .
Considering the greater intensity of the light used in my experiments , the results agree pretty well with each other .
In the original paper the area of the wings was erroneously given as ; the pressure was thelefore found too small in the proportion of to .
The pressure deduced by the rough method of the original paper should therefore have been The number only professed to be an outer limit to the pressure , the real pressure being necessarily smaller .
The intensity of the light used in the more careful experiments described in these pages was decidedly smaller than that used in the original experiments .
Under these circumstances I think the agreement between the two numbers is as close as could be expected .
*Lecture delivered at the Royal Inshtution , February 11 ; reprinted , 'Quarterly Journal of Science , ' April 1876 .

