SXII .
Account of some remarkable Caves zXn the PrincipQlity of Bayreuth , and of the fosszl Bones J:ound therezn Extracted from a Paper sent , with Specimens of the Bones , as a Present to the Royal Society , by his most Serene IIighness th Mar grazxe of Anspach , Sc. Pkead January oo 17g A RIDGE of primeval naountains runs almost through Gerv many , in a direction nearly from west to east ; the Harts , the motlntains of Thuringia , the Fichtelberg in Franconia , are different parts of it , which in their fartlaer extent constitute the Riesenberg , and join the Carpathian mountaitls , the highest parts of this ridge are grallite , and are flanked by alluvial and stratified mountainsa consisting chiefly of liluestone , marl , and sandstolle , such at least is the tract of hills in which the caves to be spokell of are situated , and c)ver these hills the main road leads from Bayreuth to Erlang , or Nurenberg .
Half way t(3 this town lies StreitbergS where there is a post , and but three or four English miles distant from thence are the cantes mentioned , near Gailenreuth and Klaussteill , two small villages , insignificallt in themselves , but -become falnous for the discolreries made in their laeiglabour hood .
The tract of hills is there broken off by many slmall and narrosr vallies , confined mostly by steep and high rockso herq and there-overllal1ging , and threatenin^ , , as it were , to fall ; : +QX 3 and crush all beneaih s and every where thereabouts are to be met with objectsS svhic l suggest the idea of their being evident vestiges of some general and mighty catastrophe which happened in the prneval times of the globe .
The strata of these hills consist chiefly of limestone of various colour and texture , or of marl and sandstones .
The tract of lilnestone hills abotlnds with petrifactiorB of varioUSt killds. .
the rn-ain erltrance to the c-aves at Gailenreuth OpellS near the summit of a limestone 11i31 towards the east .
An arch , near seven feet higha leads into a kind of atatichamber , 80 feet in length , and goo feet in circumference , hich CVllStitUt@$ the vestibule of four other caves .
This anticllamber is lofty ; and airyS but has no light except what enters by its open arch ; its bottom is level , and covered with black mould , a1though the colamen soil of the environs is loam and marl .
By seareral circumstances it appears , that it has been made use of in turbulexlt times as a place of refuge From this vestibule , or J2rst cave , a dark and narrow alley opens ill the corner a-t the south endS and leads into the second care , which is about do feet long , S high , and 40 broad .
Its sides and roof are covered , in a wild and rough manner , with stalactites , columns of which are halaging from the roof , others rising from the botton , meeting the first in many whimsical shapes .
The air of this cavea as well as of all the restS is always cool , and has , even in the height of summer , been found below temperate .
Caution is therefore necessary to its visitors ; for it is remarkable , that people having spent any time in this or the other caverns , always on their coming out again appear 3Fi .
pale , which in part may be owing to the coolness of the airs and in part likewise to the particxllar exhalations within the cars .
A very narrow , windingf and troublesome passage opens farther into a Third cave , or chamber of a rourldish form and about So feet diameter , covered all over with stalactitesX Very near its entrance there is a perpendicular descelat of about 2O feet , into a dark and frightful abyss Sa laddler tuust be brought to descend into it , and caution ls 1lecessary in using it , on account of the rough and slippery stalactites .
Wherl you are down , you etlter into a gloomy cave of about o^ feet diameter , and So feet high9 lnaking properly but a segment of the third cave .
In the passage to this third cave some teeth and fragments of tones are found ; but coming down to the pit of the cave you are every way surrounded by a rrast heap of animal remains .
'rlle bottom of this cave is paved with a stalactical crust of near a foot in thicknessX large all(l small frslglnents of all sorts of bones are scattered every where oll the surface of the ground , or are easlly drawn out of the mouldering rtlbbish .
rule very valls seem filled with varions and innumerable teeth and broken borzes .
the stalactical covering of the ulleven sides of the cave does not reach quite down to its bottom , whereby it plainly appears that this vast collection of animal rubbishX some time ago filled a higher space in the cave , before the bulk of it sunk by mouldering This place is in appearance very like a large quarry of sandstonesX and indeed the largest and fillest blocks of osteolitE &gt; ical concretes might be hevrz out in any number , if there was but room enough to cotne to thems and to carry t}wm out .
This bony rock has been dug into in different places and every where undoubted proofs have been met with that its bed , or this osteolithical stratum , extends every way far belleatll and through the limestone rock , into which and throllgll which these caverns have beela made , so that the queries suggesting themselves about the astotlishing numbers of animals bllried here confound all speculation .
Along the sides of this third acavern there are some narrower openings , leading int ; o different smaller chambers , of which it cannot be said how deep they go .
In some of thelu bones of sTnaller animals have been founcl ) such as jaw-bolaes , vertebrae , and tibis , in large heaps .
The bottom of this cave slopes tosvard a passage sevell feet hlgh , and al)out as widea being the entrarlce to a Fourth cave , 20 feet highn and 15 wide , lined all round withd a stalactical crust , and gradually sloping to another steep descent , where the ladder is wanted a second time , and must be used with caution as before , in order to get into a cave 40 feet laigh , and about half as wide .
In those deep and spacious hollows , worked QUt through the most solid mass of rock , you again perceive with astonislument , immense numbers of bony fragments of all kitlds and sizes , -sticking every where in the sides of the cave , or lying on the bottom .
This cave also is surroulleled by several smaller otles ; in one ot them rises a stalactite of uncomll1oll bignessn being four feet high , and eight feet diameter , in the form of a trutacated colle .
In another of those side grottoes , a very neat stalactical pillar presents itself , five feet in height , and eight inches in diameter .
The bottom of all these grottoes is covered with true animal mould , out of which may be dug fragments of bones .
Besides the smaller llollows , spoken of before , rourld ths ; fourth caveX a very 2larrosr opentlg has been discovered in orwe of its corners .
It is of very dilicult access , as it can be entered only in a crawling posttlrea This dismal and dangerous passage leads into a Afth cave , of near go feet high , 43 lorlg9 and of unequal hreadth .
To the depth of six feet this cave has been dug , and nothing has been found but fragments of bones , and animal mould : the sides are finely decorated with stalactites of different forms and colours ; but even this stalactical crust is filled with fragments of bones sticking in it , up to the very roof .
From this remarkable cave , another vfery low and narrow avenue leads into the last discovered , or the Sixth cave , not very large , and merely covered with a stalactical crust in which however , here and there bones are seen sticking .
And here ends this connected series of most remarkable osteolithical caverns , as far as they have been hitherto explored , marly more may for what we know exist , hidden , ire the same tract of hills .
Mr. ESPER has written a history in German of these caves , and given descriptions and plates of a great number of the fossil bqnes which have been found there .
To this work we must refer for a more particular accollnt of them .

