I. " On the Changes produced in the proportion of the Red Corpuscles of the Blood by the administration of CodLiver Oil .
" By THEOPHILUV THOMPSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1858 .
Influenced by a conviction that the peculiarities essential to any disease are often associated with characteristic changes in the blood , and that the efficacy of many remedies depends on their power of modifying such conditions of the blood , I have made it an object to take opportunities of ascertaining some particulars regarding the composition of that fluid in certain diseased conditions prior to the use of remedies , and also in patients affected with similar maladies , but whose symptoms under the employment of medicines have been materially ameliorated .
In reference to the inquiry , the proportion of red corpuscles would appear to be a circumstance of special significance , and to this question I have directed my chief care .
In pursuing the investigation , my attention has been particularly directed to cases of phthisis , as there was in this way afforded to me the greatest opportunity of comparing the largest amount of analogous instances .
On the 27th of April , 1854 , I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society a short communication descriptive of the changes produced in the blood by the administration of cod-liver oil and cocoanut oil , and advanced the conclusion deduced from chemical analysis , that any favourable result derived from the administration of these oils is associated with an increase in the proportion of red corpuscles .
Having availed myself of opportunities for continuing the investigation , I beg to present the results to the Society .
The chief particulars observed are exhibited in a tabular form , but it may be desirable briefly to detail the most important circumstances in some of the instances adduced .
In two of the patients no oil had been given ; both were men , the subjects of advanced consumption .
In one of them , Edward D. , the proportion of red corpuscles was only 98'20 in 1000 of blood .
In the other , D. D. , similarly affected , it was 119'64 .
When cod-liver oil was administered , but failed to produce any favourable effect on the general condition of the patient , a similar spareness in the proportion of blood-corpuscles was observable .
Thus , for example , James H. , a man affected with phthisis in the third stage , had taken the oil for four months , but notwithstanding gradually lost strength and weight .
His proportion of blood-corpuscles was 114 39 , still less than in D. D. , a patient to whom no oil had been administered .
With these cases it is instructive to contrast others in the same period of disease , to whom cod-liver oil had been administered with manifest advantage .
Sarah Warren , aged 26 , with a consumptive cavity in each lung , under a few months ' course of the oil gained 10 } pounds in weight , and in other respects materially improved .
The proportion of corpuscles was found on analysis to be 145 ' 68 .
In Edwin P. , aged 28 , affected with a similar condition of both lungs , who improved considerably and gained 4 pounds in weight , under two months ' continuance of the oil treatment , the red corpuscles existed in nearly the same proportion as in the female last mentioned , being 145'56 .
Thomas N. , a patient with a consumptive cavity ( indicated amongst other signs by cracked pipkin sound on the left side ) , having taken the oil for some months , gained 13 pounds in weight .
The proportion of red discs was 157'78 .
It may be interesting to mention , that in this individual , the fibrine , although considerable in amount , was not associated with fat , and that the corpuscles of his blood examined under the microscope exhibited numerous chains or rouleaux .
The results of analysis in less advanced stages of the disease are still more striking .
Sarah M. , a girl aged 16 , having the peculiar clicking sound , and other evidences of the second stage-that of softening tubercle ( on the left side ) had taken cod-liver oil for six months with most satisfactory results .
The corpuscles were in remarkably high proportion , namely 172'56 .
It is an interesting fact , that in this instance the remarkable hum in the jugular veins , often found as a symptom in anaemia ( but as I think wrongly regarded as peculiar to that condition ) , was present .
In Henry B. , the subject of phthisis in the second stage on both sides , after a short course of oil , the proportion was 144 76 .
The highest proportion of corpuscles which I have found in any of my consumptive patients was 174'34 .
It occurred in S. P. , a man aged 36 , who had the disease in a very early stage accompany ( d with the variety of wavy inspiration , which I believe to indicate the existence of a considerable amount of freely expanding lung around the parts consolidated by tubercular deposit .
He had taken oil for only two months , but had during that period gained about a stone in weight .
Another man , Those .
C. , also in the first stage , and with the same symptom , wavy inspiration , but with a greater extent of dull percussion ( and other signs of more disease than S. P. ) , had also taken oil for two months with advantage , and the proportion of corpuscles was 144'45 , whilst Those .
B. , in whom the physical signs of disease were still slighter , but in whose expectoration , examined with the microscope , the presence of lung-tissue sufficiently demonstrated the nature of the disease , the blood contained a proportion of corpuscles as high as 165*90 .
This man had taken cod-liver oil ( with only one short interruption ) for twelve months .
The fourteen cases recorded in this communication with a view to the question under consideration are arranged in the following Table : Time during Gain orloss Proportion No. Name .
Stage of disease .
which oil of red was given .
n weigt corpuscles .
lbs. 1 .
Edward D ... .
3rd .
None given ... ... 98-20 2 .
David D ... 3rd .
None. .
119-64 3 .
James H ... .
3rd .
4 months .
7 114-39 4 .
SarahWarren 3rd , on both sides 5 months .
+10145-68 5 .
Edwin P ... .3rd , do .
do .
6 weeks .
+4 145'56 6 .
Thomas N ... .
3rd .
Some months .
+13 157-78 7 .
Sarah M ... 2nd .
6 months .
+3 172-56 8 .
Henry B ... .2nd , on both sides 14 days .
No change .
144-76 9 .
George P ... 1st .
7 weeks .
+13 174-34 10 .
Thomas C ... .
1st .
2 months .
+6 144-45 11 .
Thomas B ... .
1st .
12 months ... ... 165-90 12 .
Martha W ... .
1st .
3 weeks ... ... .
14262 13 .
Mary D ... ... .
3rd .
4 months .
+10 84-83 14 .
Sarah W ... ... 3rd .
Some months , +6 162-07 ozonized oil .
The analyses were made by Mr. Dugald Campbell , Analytical Chemist to the Consumption Hospital , and were conducted as follows : The blood was placed in a small beaker half-full , fitted with a cork , and was conveyed carefully so as to keep the serum free from the blood-corpuscles .
The beaker containing the blood , after standing twenty-four hours , was weighed .
The serum , perfectly free from red corpuscles , was drained from the coagulum with very great care , and the latter being transferred on to bibulous paper , after standing for the space of four or five hours , was weighed .
Two separate portions of coagulum , of from 35 to 40 grains , were again weighed , one for the moisture , and the other for the fibrine .
The moisture was then entirely removed by means of a water-oven ; from 24 to 36 hours being found necessary for accomplishing this object , the completion of which was ascertained by the capsule , with its contents , ceasing to lose weight .
The portion for the fibrine was removed into a bason , treated with cold water by maceration , until the fibrine appeared to be perfectly colourless , when it was removed on to a previously weighed filter , again washed , and carefully but not too highly dried .
The filter and fibrine were next put into a test-tube , and , in order to separate the fat , digested , first with ether and again with alcohol , twice or thrice , then dried by means of a water-bath , and weighed .
This weight , less that of the filter , represents the fibrine ; and these data being obtained , the amount of blood-corpuscles , and that of fibrine in 1000 parts of the blood , are determined by a simple calculation .
The general correspondence between the instances adduced in the present communication and those of my former contribution is sufficiently obvious ; the proportion of red corpuscles in patients to whom oil had been successfully administered exceeding that ascertained to exist in the first stage of the disease , in those to whom this medicine had not been given .
It is commonly stated , and the remark is in harmony with my own observations , that the proportion of red corpuscles is usually less in women than in men .
To this rule the seventh case in the Table furnishes an exception , and it was further remarkable from the fact that a murmur could be heard in the jugular vein ; a phenomenon commonly attributed to spareness of blood-corpuscles , but in this instance associated with more than the average amount .
The case numbered thirteen in the tabular analyses would seem directly opposed to the conclusion to which the other observations tend , but the patient had suffered from repeated attacks of spitting of blood so extreme as to place her life in jeopardy .
This profuse heemorrhage would naturally increase the poverty of the circulating fluid , and thus counteract to a great extent the apparent influence of the remedy .
In the fourteenth case ozonized oil had been administered .
The rapid reproduction of red corpuscles implied in these observations , suggests inquiries of special interest ; but I purposely abstain from any attempt to explain the mode by which it is effected .

