96 The Accumulation of Helium Geological Time.\#151 ; II .
By the Hon. R J. Strutt , F.RS .
, Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received August 17 , \#151 ; Read November 4 , 1909 .
) Daring the present year I have pursued the investigation outlined in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , 1908 , p. 272 .
This , it may be remembered , was to determine the ratio of helium to radio-active matter in materials belonging to definite geological horizons , with a view to the measurement of geological time .
It appears advisable to give an outline of the progress made , though the investigation is far from complete .
Many phosphatised bones and nodules have been examined , in addition to those referred to in the previous paper .
The result has been confirmatory of the conclusions there reached .
I have convinced myself , by comparison of these data with one another , and with those furnished by materials of a different class , that the phosphatic materials seldom , if ever , retain more than a small fraction of the helium that has been generated within them during their life-history.* The same remark applies to limestones , of which a considerable number have been examined .
In no case has any notable quantity of helium been found ; nor could I detect any in a sample of gypsum from Leicester , of triassic age .
It is greatly to be regretted that these materials should give so little information .
They would be specially advantageous in respect of their abundance and well-defined stratigraphical position .
The only other promising materials to be commonly found in sedimentary strata are the oxides and carbonates of iron , iron pyrites , the various forms of silica , and carbonaceous materials such as coal and lignite .
The two former have alone been examined , as yet .
It is unfortunate that the age of an ironstone cannot in general be assumed to be the same as that of the stratum in which it occurs , for these materials have generally been formed by a secondary alteration in the original deposit .
The ironstones cannot , however , be , younger than the strata of which they form part .
I I have found that certain ironstones in secondary and even in tertiary strata contain quantities of helium which denote ages very much greater than those which were suggested as a minimum from the experiments on phosphates .
In some of * See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 82 , p. 166 .
t Certain cases of derived ironstone nodules must be excepted .
The Accumulation of Helium in Geological Time .
97 these ironstones enough thorium is present to be of importance as a source of helium .
The thorium has been determined by the method suggested by Prof. Joly.* It appears from Boltwood 's experimentsf that the ionising power of 1 gramme of thoria with its complete series of products is 0*255 of the corresponding quantity for uranium oxide ( UgOs ) .
Assuming ( as we have now good ground to do ) that the a-particles are helium atoms , and allowing for the longer average range of the a-rays from thorium products ( 5*4 cm .
as compared with 4 3 cm .
) , we find that 1 gramme of thorium in a mineral is equivalent to 0*203 gramme uranium oxide , so far as the production of helium is concerned .
It is convenient to introduce the expression " total equivalent quantity of uranium oxide , " by which I mean the quantity of uranium oxide + 0*203 times the quantity of thoria present in a substance .
The following table gives some of the most significant results obtained .
The " helium ratio " is the helium in cubic centimetres per gramme of total equivalent uranium oxide .
For the factor by which this is to be translated into years we are still dependent on the indirect calculation of Rutherford , which makes each unit in this ratio represent 11 million years .
I have avoided giving actual ages on this basis , as I do not wish them to be quoted without due regard to their provisional character .
Per 100 grammes of mineral .
Mineral .
Locality .
Geological horizon .
Helium , c.c. x 10-4 .
I^3^8\gt ; grs. x 10-* Th02 ) grs. x 10~* .
Total equivalent HjjOg , grs. x 10""4 .
j Helium ratio .
Sphaerosiderite ... Niederpleis , Rhine Overlying " Braun-kohle , " oligocene Eocene or later 1*65 1 -80 1 *89 2*18 0-76 Haematite ( piso- provinces , Germany Co. Antrim , Ireland 3*36 2-40 8*73 4-18 0-87 litio ore ) Haematite , not \#187 ; 9 ) 12 -1 2*64 8-27 4*33 2-8 pisolitic Spathic ore Loddington , near Kettering Aalen , Wurtemburg Cleveland Tnf .
oolite 10-7 8*95 13 *9 4*61 13 4 7*33 1 *5 Iron oolite .
Spathic ore M ... \#171 ; i. ... ... Lias 2-25 6 *72 1 *70 39 *5 3-95 | 14 -8 2 3 0*94 Limonite Forest of Dean Carboniferous 150*0 98*4 10 *3 4 '83 11 '3 13 *3 Haematite Caen ( St. Remy ore ) Devonian 4*39 15-0 7-43 13 2 The results on haematite from co .
Antrim are especially noteworthy .
The .
substance occurs in beds between the upper and lower basalts , of Tertiary * ' Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1909 .
+ 'Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ' vol. 21 , June , 1906 , p. 420 .
VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; A. H 98 The Accumulation of Helium in Geological Time .
age , and cannot be of more than Eocene age at the most.* It would appear from the numbers given above that even the Eocene period must be put back 30 million years .
The list above only refers to a very small proportion of the iron ores which have been examined .
The large majority of Tertiary iron ores contain little helium .
They are mostly soft and friable , in contrast to the Antrim ores , which are quite hard .
This may in part account for their apparently superior power of retaining the gas , though I believe it is not the only factor .
With regard to the rate of formation of helium by the complete uranium and thorium series of products , direct data are still lacking , as already mentioned .
I have , however , made considerable progress towards a determination , and have carried out preliminary experiments which prove that Rutherford 's indirect estimate of 9*13 x 10-8 c.c. per gramme of uranium oxide is of the right order of magnitude.f A quantity of Joachimsthal pitchblende containing 115 grammes of UgO\#174 ; was got into solution by appropriate methods .
Two solutions were necessary , one containing sulphuric acid and another free from this acid to take up the metals forming insoluble sulphates ( lead , barium , radium , etc. ) .
In 61 days after setting aside the solutions were boiled out , and the evolved gases yielded a quantity of helium which was measured as 2 x 10-6 c.c. in the capillary of a McLeod gauge .
This gives for the rate of helium formation 104 x 10-8 c.c. per gramme U3O8 per annum , in agreement with Rutherford 's estimate of 013 x 10-8 c.c. ETo stress can be laid on the exactness , of this agreement , as the quantity of gas was barely measurable .
Experiments have also been started on the rate of growth of helium from thorianite .
These will give a value for the .rate of growth per gramme of thoria with all products , when the rate for the uranium series present in the substance is known and can be allowed for .
They will also be of special interest as giving the age of thorianite directly .
A preliminary experiment^ gave the following result : 400 grammes of thorianite were got into solution , and all traces of helium boiled out .
The solution was allowed to stand , for seven weeks .
It was then boiled out again , and yielded a quantity of helium too small to measure , and certainly less than 2xl0-6 c.c. This experiment confirms the prevision that the rate of production by the thorium series with all products is less , weight for weight , than for the uranium series .
* See Sir A. Geikie 's 'Text-book of Geology , ' p. 1252 .
t ' Nature , ' August 5 , 1909 .
J Referred to in a note to ' Nature , ' May 13 , 1909 .
The Aberrations of a Symmetrical Optical Instrument .
99 The thorianite used in this experiment contained initially 9 c.c. of helium per gramme .
The annual rate of production per gramme is , from the experiment , certainly less than 3*7 x 10~8 c.c. It follows that the accumulation cannot have taken less than 240 million years .
It may have taken considerably more .
In this account , which is of an interim character , I have purposely avoided detailed description of experimental methods or discussion of the results in their geological bearing .
These matters are deferred .
The Aberrations of a Symmetrical Optical By H. C. Pocklington , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received September 6 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1909 .
) 1 .
Attention has been called by Rayleigh in a paper cited below to the ease with which the general nature of the aberrations of optical instruments can be discussed by means of a modified characteristic function .
The object of the present paper is to work this method in more detail in order to get a complete account of the aberrations and to connect it with the known method of calculating the aberrations of a particular system .
We write down the doubly modified function in S 2 , and in S 3 deduce from it the singly modified function used in the rest of the paper .
The meanings of the coefficients are given in S 4 .
Attention having been called in S 5 to some features that limit the usefulness of the method , a new expansion of more practical value is found in S 6 .
The meanings of the coefficients of this expression are given in detail in S 7 , and some relations between them ( i.e. between the spherical aberration , coma , etc. ) in S 8 .
The numerical calculation is discussed in S 9 .
In S 10 another method of calculating the characteristic function is sketched out .
2 .
The characteristic function , strictly so called , is the integral of taken along the path of a ray of light from a point ( say y , z ) in the initial medium to another ( say x ' , y ' , z ' ) in the final medium , the integral being expressed in terms of these six co-ordinates .
Supposing the initial and final media to have refractive index unity , we have dV/ dx = l , etc. , ( TVJdx ' = l ' , etc. ,

