IX .
An extract of a Letter from Dr. Robert St. Clair , to Dr. Rob .
Hook , F. R. S. giving an Account of a very odd Eruption of Fire out of a Spot in the Earth near Fierenzola in Italy , with an easy Contrivance of a Lamp to be kept always full whilst it burns .
SIR , HAving lately had an Observation communicated to me by my Brother , which he made when he travelled through Italy last , differing from any I have hitherto met with in Natural Histories , I presume you may think it not unfit to be communicated to the Public , and so give it a Place in the next Philosophical Transactions .
It is this : On a side of one of the Appenine Mountains half way betwixt Bologna and Florence , near a Place called Petra Mala , about Five Miles from Fierenzola , there is a Spot of Ground about three or four Miles diameter , which incessantly sends up a Flame rising very high , without Noise , Smoke or Smell ; yet it gives a very great Heat , and it has been observed to be thus in all times , except of great Rains , which put it out for a time ; but when that is over it burns with greater Vigour and Heat than before : the Sand about it , when turned up , sends up a Flame ; but within three or four Yards of it there grows Corn all round about ; for it continues always in the same Spot .
This Flame seems to proceed from a Vein of Bitumen or Naphtha that cropes ( as the Miners call it ) only here ; which , when by plowing , or some other Accident , the upper Crust has been turned up , was kindled into a Flame by the Heat and Agitation of the Air , as other Salino-Sulphureous Bodies are , of which Esquire Boyl 's Phosphorus is a particular Instance , the like spontaneous Accension is seen in many mineral Substances , but none that I know of , so quick in its production or lasting , as this is , the whole Woods and Fields have been destroyed by them .
The Neighbours there have been so little curious to observe it , that they believed that there was a great Hole in the Flame-place ; but he found it to be firm Ground .
Neither does any there remember when , and upon what Occasion it first began .
The flaming Well near Wig an seems to proceed from a Cause much like this , in which you may boil an Egg , and upon the approaching of a lighted Candle it takes Fire , both seem to proceed from a Naphtha or subtle Bitumen , only that in a hotter Country , and being in a dryer Soil , is more Subtle and inflammable ; just as the Petroleum which is found in Italy is a white-like Spirit of Turpentine ; and is more penetrating than the Petroleum which is to be found in the Northern Countries ; an Instance of which we have in a Well two Miles distant from Edinburgh , called the Baulme-Well , of a black red colour , and very thick , but being distilled , does in Colour , Taste and Smell , ~ that of Italy .
What Lonicerus says of the Naphtha is not improper for this Place , viz. that it is of two sorts , Candida &amp; Nigra , Candida praefertur ; generatur ex bitumine a seipso in terra &amp; montibus accenso , tenuissimis ejus vaporibus sursum elatis , &amp; ad frigidora saxa in tenuem liK kk2 quorem quorem resolutis , quae per suos meatus e montibus fontium instar scaturit , ac inde oleum petrae dictum est , quod videlicet ex petris profluat .
This spontaneous Accension of the Naphtha seems to be made out by the Smell that our Bitumen near Edenburgh yields , being most like Coal-Smoak .
There are three such Fires on the same Hills that are extinguished in the Summer , but burn in the Winter .
The Reason of which I judge to be , that the Bowels of the Earth being cooler in Summer than in Winter , do not send forth that Quantity of those subtle Exhalations as may be sufficient to maintain a Flame in Summer ; but in Winter , the Bowels of the Earth being hotter ( which is made evident by the smoaking of Springs in Winter , and not in Summer , and the Experience of Miners ) greater Plenty of Steams are sent forth , which in the Air are agitated into a Flame , the brisk of the Parts one against another , being promoted by the subtilty and brisk Motion of the Aerial particles , quae mutuas dant operas .
An easy Contrivance of a Lamp to be kept always full whilst it burns .
SIR , MY writing of this Accension of combustible Matter by the Air , puts me in mind of your observation about the Action of Flame , upon the Wyck of a Lamp or Candle , which it never wastes till the Wyck be exposed to the Air by the Flames falling downwards , from which you infer , that a way found out to keep the Fuel , and consequently the Flame at the same height upon the Wyck , would make it serve a long time ; for which effecting , you have a great many pretty Contrivances .
I have , a good while ago , thought the same might be effected by Hydrostaticks ; which when I first communicated , was approved of ; and I am thereby induced to think it will not be unacceptable to the Public .
It is this ; Let a Lamp be made Two or Three Inches deep , with a Pipe coming from the bottom , almost as high as the top of the Vessel , be filled first with Water , so high as to cover the Hole of the Pipe at the bottom , to the end the Oil may not get in at the Pipe ( and so be lost ) : then let the Oil be poured in so as to fill the Vessel almost brim full , which must have a Cover pierct with as many Holes as are designed to be Wycks .
When the Vessel is thus filled , and the Wycks are lighted , if Water fall in by Drops at the Pipe , it will keep the Oil always at the same height , or very near , ( the Weight of Water to that of Oil being , according to Kircher 's Table , as 208/ 11 to 19 , which in two or three Inches will make no considerable difference .
) If the Water runs faster than the Oil wastes , it will only run over at the Top of the Pipe , what does not run over , will come under the Oil , and keep it to the same height .

