7 .
" On the Change of Refrangibility of Light."-No .
II .
By Professor Stokes , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1853 .
The principal object of this paper is to explain a moce of observation by means of which the author found that he could exhibit , with ordinary day-light , the change of refrangibility produced by substances opake as well as transparent , even when they possessed only a low degree of sensibility .
The method requires hardly any apparatus ; it is extremely easy in execution ; and it has the great advantage of rendering the observer independent of sun-light .
On these accounts the author conceives that it might be immediately applied by chemists to the discrimination between different substances .
The method is as follows : A large hole , which ought to be several inches in diameter , cut in the window-shutter of a darkened room , serves to introduce the light , and a small shelf , blackened on the top , attached to the shutter.immediately underneath the hole , serves .
to support the objects to be examined , as well as one or two absorbing media .
The hole is covered by an absorbing medium , called by the author the principal absorbent , which is so selected as to let through , as far as may be , the feebly illuminating rays of high refrangibility , as well as the invisible rays still more refrangible , but to stop the rays belonging to the greater part of the visible spectrum .
A second medium , called by the author the complementary absorbent , is chosen so as to be as far as possible transparent with regard to those rays which the first medium stops , and opake with regard to those which it lets through .
The object to be examined is placed on the shelf , and viewed through the second medium .
If the media be well-selected , they together produce a very fair approach towards perfect darkness ; and if the object appears unduly luminous , that arises in all probability from " fluorescence .
" To determine whether the illumination be really due to that cause , it is commonly sufficient to remove the complementary absorbent from before the eyes to the front of the hole , when the illumination , if it be really due to fluorescence , almost wholly disappears ; whereas , if it be due merely to scattered light which is able to get through both media , it necessarily remains the same as before .
In the case of objects which are only feebly fluorescent , it is sometimes better-to leave the second medium in its place , and use a third medium , called by the author the transfer medium , which is placed alternately in the path of the rays incident on the object-end of the rays coming from it to the eyes .
Independently of illumination , the change of colour corresponding to the change of refrangibility , and the difference of colour with which the object appears , according as the transfer medium , or the complerientary absorbent used as a transfer medium , is held in front of the eyes or in front of the hole , afford in most cases a ready mode of detecting fluorescence .
Instead of trusting to the absolute appearance of the object , it is commonly , better to compare it with some fixed standard .
The standard substance ought to be such as to scatter freely visible rays of all refrangibilities , but not to give out rays of one refrangibility when influenced by rays of another .
The author employed a white porcelain tablet as such a standard ; and the object to be observed was placed on the tablet , instead of being laid directly on the blackened shelf .
Another mode of observation consists in using a prism in combination with the principal absorbent._ The'object being placed on the tablet , a slit is held close to it , in such a position as to be seen , projected partly on the object and partly on the tablet , and the slit is then viewed through a prism .
The fluorescence of the object is evidenced by light appearing in regions of the spectrum , in which , in the case of the rays coming through the principal absorbent , and , therefore , in the case of the rays scattered by the tablet , there is nothing but darkness .
The author states that these methods proved to be of such delicacy , that , even on an unusually gloomy day , he was able readily to detect the fluorescence of white paper ; and even in the case of substances standing much lower in the scale , the fluorescence could be detected in a similar manner .
In conclusion , the author states that he had found the property of fluorescence to belong to a-peculiar class of salts , the platinocya , nides , making a third instance .
in which this property had been connected with substances chemically isolated in a perfectly satisfactory way .
The present instance opens a new field of inquiry in relation to the polarization of the fluorescent light .

