340 Note on Electric Discharge Phenomena in Rotating Silica Bulbs .
m the Hon. E. J. Strutt , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 22 , 1913 .
) The late Rev. F. J. Jervis Smith described some curious experiments on this subject before the Royal Society , * without , however , offering any interpretation of his results .
I have recently repeated most of his experiments , and have made others which have thrown light on the matter .
As the result , it does not seem that anything fundamentally new as to the mechanism of discharge is to be learnt from this line of research .
Still , the work is worthy of brief record , if only to save others the trouble of traversing the same ground .
Jervis Smith 's fundamental experiment !
is as follows : The exhausted bulb is placed near a body charged to 1,000 volts or more .
When the bulb is rotated , a luminous glow is maintained within it .
It is not difficult to foresee this result .
The rarefied gas may be regarded as a conductor .
Suppose the body negatively electrified .
Then , since the potential on the inside of the bulb is lower near the outside electrified body than elsewhere , positive electricity will flow to this neighbourhood and negative electricity to other parts of the bulb , until the electric field inside the bulb is nearly neutralised .
When the bulb is rotated , these induced charges will be carried round with it , and will have to flow through the gas to recover their equilibrium position .
In doing this they set up the ordinary luminosity of discharge .
To predict the precise direction of the stream lines would be very difficult , and it does not appear that much would be gained by success .
As regards the detailed effects of magnetic fields in various directions in deflecting the luminosity the same may be said .
I find that , just as in ordinary discharge tubes , the luminosity at low vacua is mainly that characterising the residual gas , while at high vacua the fluorescence of the silica under cathode rays predominates .
In Jervis Smith 's third paper , he describes luminosity produced by rubbing the outside of the rotating silica vessel .
I have used the dry hands as rubbers , almost enclosing the bulb in the two palms .
The luminosity is * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1908 , A , vol. 80 , p. 212 ; 1908 , A , vol. 81 , pp. 214 , 430 .
+ I find , however , that this experiment , and also the experiment of producing luminosity in an exhausted globe by rotating it under a rubber , were described as long ago as 1709 by F. Hawksbee , F.R.S. , ' Physico-mechanical Experiments on " Various .Subjects , ' pp. 36 , 62 .
Electric Discharge Phenomena in Rotating Silica .
341 then very bright and , under certain conditions , it survives after the rubbing is over .
The cause of luminosity is not materially different from what it was in the previous case .
Before considering it some experiments will be described :\#151 ; ( 1 ) On a favourable dry day the bulb was rubbed .
Removing the hands and having the bulb rotating at a distance from other objects , the luminosity was extinguished .
But on bringing the hand or any other earthed conductor near ( not touching ) , the luminosity was restored .
( 2 ) The rotating bulb was rubbed .
A brass cylinder a little larger was then placed co-axially over it .
No luminosity could be seen .
Displacing the cylinder to one side , still without touching , luminosity was restored .
( 3 ) The bulb was rubbed .
An earthed conductor was then adjusted near it , inducing luminosity as in ( 1 ) .
A bun sen burner was passed underneath i for a moment to discharge electrification , the top of the flame was not allowed to approach nearer than 3 or 4 inches below the bulb , and did not warm it perceptibly .
Luminosity was permanently extinguished .
( 4 ) The electrification produced on the outside of the bulb by rubbing with the hand is positive .
This was proved by lowering it into a Faraday cylinder connected with an electroscope charged with electricity of known sign .
Let us for simplicity suppose that the rubber has been removed , leaving the outer surface of the bulb uniformly electrified .
Then , if the surroundings in which the bulb rotates are symmetrical about the axis of rotation , no electric field will be created within the bulb .
But if an earthed conductor is situated on one side of it , the potential of an element of area of the inner surface will be lowered when that element passes near the conductor .
Thus , positive electricity will flow to the point in question , and negative electricity away from it to other portions of the bulb .
As before , the charges which .
have thus attached themselves to the inner walls are continually carried , round , and have to flow back through the gas to their equilibrium position .
Another of Jervis Smith 's experiments may be referred to which does not fall very well under the title of this note .
If a brush discharge from an induction coil is merely allowed to play over a highly exhausted silica bulb like that used in the rotation experiments , the bulb remains brightly luminous afterwards , sometimes for several minutes .
In repeating the experiment , I find that this luminosity shows curious flickerings , which are greatly accentuated if earthed conductors are brought near the bulb , and then removed .
If the bulb is held for a moment high above a bunsen flame , or if it is breathed upon , the luminosity ceases .
As before , the luminosity is connected with electrification of the outside surface .
This electrification is initially uneven , and , as the charge creeps over the surface , Hon. R. J. Strutt .
on Electric \#166 ; currents flow through the rarefied gas inside .
The approach of earthed conductors also upsets the uniformity of potential inside , and produces the same result .
It is certainly curious that these effects should be so persistent .
It need scarcely be said that they have merely a superficial resemblance to the afterglow phenomena due to chemical changes in the gas , which I have examined in previous papers .
Finally , it remains to consider one more of Jervis Smith 's experiments , which , indeed , first attracted me to the subject .
His description runs thus:\#151 ; " A silica glow bulb was rotated as before .
The camel-hair rubber , after being in contact with the bulb , was removed , and no glow was visible ; but , \#166 ; on establishing the magnetic field ( about 800 C.G.S. units intensity ) , the bulb instantly glowed brightly , the glow lasting in some cases eight minutes before it died out .
When pointed pole pieces were used on either side of the rotating bulb , a bright equatorial* band about 5 mm. wide of greenish glow was generated .
" Fig. 1 .
I have repeated this experiment without difficulty ( fig. 1 ) .
As before , it depends on electrification of the bulb surface .
Diselectrification by a flame .destroys the effect .
Each pole of the magnet , acting merely as an earthed conductor , lowers the potential of the inner surface of the bulb near it , so that these two portions of the surface tend to act as cathodes .
The electric force may not be enough to cause discharge ; but when the magnet is excited it produces a magnetic force parallel to the electric force , and this , as is known , f lowers the discharge potential so that discharge can occur .
At the same time a beam of " magnetic rays " J proceeds from each cathode towards the other , along the * The magnetic force is perpendicular to the axis of rotation .
The band is equatorial with reference to the latter and stretches between the pole pieces .
+ See Birkeland , 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' Feb. , 1898 , vol. 121 , p. 586 .
f It is not necessary here to enter on the difficult question of the nature of these lays .
For our purpose they are simply cathode rays modified by longitudinal magnetic force .
Discharge Phenomena in Rotating Silica Bulbs .
343 magnetic lines .
These constitute the luminous band described .
To my eyes it is blue , not green .
On the explanation given , the ends of the luminous band are each cathodes other parts of the bulb surface acting as anode .
It may be objected that the appearance of the band suggests a discharge from one end of it to the other .
The experiment indicated in fig. 2 with discharge in a stationary vessel answers this objection ; C and C are each fiat metal cathodes , and are connected together by a wire .
A is anode .
N and S are hollow pole pieces of an electromagnet .
Fig. 2 .
A Wimhurst machine is used .
At suitable rarefaction , no discharge occurs unless the magnet is excited .
When it is excited , a band of negative glow stretches across as shown , exactly like that observed in the rotating vessel .
A little positive light can be seen near the anode A , but it is inconspicuous .
Going back to the rotating vessel , these magnetic rays ought not to be seen if the bulb becomes negatively electrified by friction , for then the parts of the inner surface near the magnet poles would act as anodes , not as cathodes .
An exhausted glass bulb was heated and coated with sealing wax over a zone equatorial to the axis of rotation .
While being rubbed with silk it was luminous , but the insulation was apparently not good enough to get luminosity when the rubbing had been discontinued .
To examine the magnetic effect , rubbers were held near each of the pole pieces of the magnet .
Under these conditions the magnetic rays had been brilliant , using the quartz bulb .
With the glass one coated with sealing wax , no magnetic rays were seen ; on the contrary , when the magnetic force was strong , the luminosity ( apparently a cathode ray phosphorescence of the glass ) was concentrated in rings lying in 344 Dr. J. N. Pring .
the zone of friction , which were nearly great circles , and of nearly uniform brightness all round .
In this case the cathodic portions of the zone which is being rubbed are those distant from the magnet poles .
The cathode rays experience not a longitudinal but a transverse magnetic force , and are curled up into small circles , so as to strike the walls again near their point of origin , and produce phosphorescence there .
It is true that at any one moment only a portion of the zone is under excitation , but each portion is excited successively , and the phosphorescence lasts long enough to produce sensible uniformity of illumination .
The Origin of Thermal Ionisation from Carbon .
By J. K Pring , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received July 26 , 1913 .
) It has been shown by the present writer in conjunction with A. Parker* that the ionisation which is produced by carbon at high temperatures , and in presence of gases at low pressures , is reduced to a much smaller order of magnitude by eliminating impurities from the carbon , and by exhausting to a high degree the containing vessel .
The results threw considerable doubt on the whole basis of the theory of electronic emission from incandescent solids .
According to this theory , j- the ionisation produced by elements at high temperatures is due to the escape of free electrons which pass into the surrounding space on account of the kinetic energy acquired at the high temperature .
It was shown , however , in the above work that in the case of carbon this ionisation is probably related to some chemical action or some intermediate effect exerted by the gas in contact with the solid .
Fredenhagen , \#163 ; who made measurements with sodium and potassium in a high vacuum , came to similar conclusions with regard to the validity of the above theory of electronic emission .
Harker and Kaye , S in investigating the large ionisation currents from * ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1912 , vol. 23 , pp. 199 .
t Richardson , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1903 , A , vol. 201 , p. 497 ; 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1912 , vol. 24 , pp. 737-744 ; ibid. , 1913 , vol. 26 , p. 345 .
J 'Verh .
Deutsch .
Phys. Gesell .
, ' 1912 , vol. 14 , pp. 384-394 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , A , vol. 86 , pp. 379-396 ; ibid. , 1913 , A , vol. 88 , pp. 522-538 .

