]\gt ; .
G. G. Stony .
The Tension of [ Jan. 16 , rapid combination of the water drops , and from it considerable rain will fall ; this rain will be negatively , and under suitable conditions both the charges on the rain and the rate of rainfall could be large .
A rough quantitative analysis shows that the order of magnitude of the electrical separation which accompanies the breaking of a drop is sufficient to account for the electrical effects observed in the most violent thunderstorms .
All the results of the observations of the electricity of rain described above are capable of explanation by the theory , which also rees well with the actual meteorological phenomena observed thunderstorms .
The Tension of Films deposited by Electrolysis .
By G. ERAL1 ) STONEY .
( Commumicated by the Hon. C. A. Parsons , C.B. , V.-P.R.S .
Received January 16 , \mdash ; Read February 4 , 1909 .
) It is well known that metallic films deposited electrolytically are in many cases liable to peel off if deposited to any considerable tbickness .
This is the case with nickel which , when deposited oyer a certain thickness , will curl up into beautiful rolls , especially if it does not adhere very htly to the body on which it is deposited .
example , if a piece of glass is silvered by any of the usual ions , and then nickel is deposited on the silver , it is found that the nickel and silver peel off the lass in close tight rolls almost at once .
In 'Practical emistry , ' by Bertram Blount , reference is made on pp. 114 and 272 to the tendency of nickel to peel off , and it is stated that it " " will peel\mdash ; spontaneously and without assignable cause\ldquo ; ( p. 272 ) , but that a thick coating can be obtained by keeping the solution at between and C. The late Earl of Rosse*tried , about 1865 , .
make flat mirrors by coating glass with silver chemically , and then electroplating with copper ; but he found that , owing to the " " contraction\ldquo ; of the copper film , it became detached from the lass .
have the same experience in protecting silvel fil1ns in reflectors by a film of electro-deposited copper , it being found that if the film of copper is more than mm. thick peeling is apt to take place .
Dr. Gore , , in papers in the 'Phil .
Trans in 1858 and 1862 , found ' Nature , ' Aug. 20 , 1908 , p. 366 .
1909 .
] Metatlic deposited by Electrolysis .
that antimony , when deposited , was in a very unstable state , and that it was liable to break to pieces by vibration or the local application of heat , this breaking to pieces being accompanied by the evolution of heat , and crackling sounds and cracks wers found due to alterations in the cohesive state of the metal ; while " " in common with electro-deposits generally the inner cmd outer surfaces of these deposits are in unequal states of cohesive tension\ldquo ; ; and he concludes by saying , " " it would be interesting to enquire to what force of mode of phy sical action is the evolution of heat in antimony due In his book , The Art of Electro-Metallurgy , ' he says , " " In common with electro-deposits generally the inner and outer surfaces are in unequal states of cohesive tension , frequently in so great a degree as to rend the deposit extensively and raise it from the cathode in the fornl of a sheet with its side towards the anode Dr. E. J. Mills , in a paper in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' 1877 , vol. 26 , on " " Electrostriction shows that when thermometer bulbs were coated electrolytically with metals , the mercury rose in the stem , proving that the metal was deposited in a state of strain , also that in the case of and iron , when more than a certain thickness was deposited , the coat split .
He found that a pressure of tons per square inch could be obtained with nickel , with iron , with silver , and with copper .
It seemed , therefore , that metals are deposited under , and if so that they should strain the material on which they were deposited so as to bend it ; and that by the amount of this the tension under which they were deposited could be determined ; and it was found that when nickel was deposited on one side of a thin sheet of metal very considerable took place .
Thin steel rules , 102 mm. , 12 mm. wide , and mm. thick , were varnished on one side and coated with nickel from the usual bath of ammonio-sulphate of nickel , and it was found easy to get these bent to the extent of 3 to 4 mm. The thickness of the film was determined by weighing before and after coating , and was checked in the case of some of the thicker films by micrometer measurements , the density of nickel being taken at , as given by Miller .
Owing to the evolution of hydrogen which always takes place , the amount deposited is considerably less than that due to the current used , generally only 50 to 60 per cent. of the theoretical quantity , and therefore .
that method could not be used to determine the quantity of nickel deposited .
The amount of bending , combined with the thickness of the deposit , enabled the tension under which it is deposited to be calculated .
let a thin steel rule of thickness have deposited on it a layer of nickel of Mr. G. G. Stony .
The Tension of [ Jan. 16 , small thickness , and let it be curved by the film of nickel to a radius neglectin the thickness of the rule , which is small in comparison with and taking moments for the steel , we have , being the depth from the surface of the rule to the neutral axis , , so that and if is the tension per unit area of section on the film of nickel , resolving horizontally , The curvature measured by the deflections of the rule in a length Thus .
Putting in this value for , we have ( 1 ) This equation is only true when the film of nickel is very thin ; but since the properties of nickel closely resemble steel it is easy to allow for the thickness of the nickel film on the assumption that the modulus of elasticity of nickel is the same as steel ; and since this is approximately true for forged nickel , is therefore probably true for deposited nickel , this assumption is allowable without serious error where the thickness of nickel deposited is moderate .
Thus , for any thickness of nickel deposited , we have for a further thickness deposited an increase of bending , and equation ( 1 ) becomes , the tension being the same for the successive layers as they are laid on the curved surface , and , integrating differential equation , : ( 2 ) * Forged nickel I have found to have the same modulus of elasticity as steel , that is , 2 , kilogrammes per sq .
cm .
Prof. Ewing , in 'Strength of Materials , ' gives 2,100,000 kilogrammes per sq .
cm .
as a mean value for carbon steel , which I have found correct for these rules , and this is independent of the quantity of carbon in the steel and whether it is tempered or not , i.e. , is the same approximately for mild steel and tool steel .
Nickel steels with from 3 to 5 per cent. of nickel have about the same modulus of elasticity as carbon steels .
Forged nickel as above has a tensile strength of 25 tons per square inch and a yield point of 16 tons per square inch , with an elongation of 10 per cent. in 2 inches , or very similar to wrought iron .
1909 .
] Metallic Films by Electrotysis .
The results given in the table are obtained from depositing nickel on a rule 102 mm. by 12 mm. wide .
depositednickel .
Thickne.snickel *Deposit rough owing to large current .
Solution C. The first six were deposited at a temperature of to C. , and with currents varying from to ampere .
No. 7 was with a current of ampere at C. , and was very rough and , but until the deposit began to get rough the current density did not affect the tension .
It is thus seen that a good deposit has a tension of between 18 and 19 tons per square inch .
The last was deposited with ampere at to C. , and the tension obtained was much lower , and this reduction in the tension of the deposit probably accounts for what Mr. Blount found , as mentioned before , that thick deposits of nickel were easier to obtain at higher temperatures .
I have not found the strength of the nickel-plating solution to affect the tension under which the nickel is deposited .
It was also found on heating these rules to a red heat so as to anneal them that they htened out to a considerable extent , the remaining deflection being only about one-third or one-half of the original .

