]\gt ; .
J. H. Jeans .
ility of ( Nel \ldquo ; J. H. JE of Newton Student in the niversity of .
Comlnunicated by Professor G. H. June \mdash ; Bead Jume 20 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) It to take as the theoretical basis of the nebular hypothesis the fact that the equilibrim of a ting mass of liquid becomeb ) as soon as the rotation exceeds a certain .
The present paper attcmpts to examine whether it is justifiable to logy from the case of a liquid to that of a eous n , and it , on the whole , this question must be answered in the negative .
The is written with especial reference to a paper by Professor G. H. Darwin , in which it is shown that a swarm of meteorites may , limitations , be treated as a mass of .
The result obtained for a gaseous ] can accordingly be at once transferred to the case of a meteoric swarm .
It that the main difference the stability of a liquid and that of , lies in the differencc of the parts played by tion in the two cases .
In the case of a liqnid , gravitation is the factor which supplies the forces of restitntion ; in the case of gas these forces are provided by the clasticity of the gas , while the influence of tion , for some rations at least , tends towards instability .
It is hown , in the first place , that the principal tions of any symmetrical nebula can be classified into )rations of orders , 1 , , where a tion of order ?
is such that the rndial displacement the cnbical dilatatio1 ) any point are each proto the rmonic S of order The case of .
nebula which extends to infinity is then examined , it is shown the bility d solely lpon the of defined by where the sticity of the gas at distance from the centre .
tions of zero order are of zero frequency ; tions of order / ( other thaIl zero ) ) as soon exceeds the .
Hcncc ) ilityClltel .
S first through a ) tion of order th the of ?
It found in lvhich the ' , 180 , .
1 .
criccll 1 fied at point , ?
the trded determined by the of the ) snm of number of corrections .
The of tiou , ever s , tcnds to inlstabiliy .
( ii .
) If the ) is in process of , the ill not ) strictly eqnilibrinm tion ; the values of some ( behind their ) values , this " " " " tcnds to bility .
( iii .
) cosity does not influencc the question of ility or in(iv .
) A corrcctio is the fact the ations Cnnot r trne for densitics below certain .
This ) seen to snpply a ctor }which tends concludc become for of the tion , hich arc quite small in rison with ]losc required the of a rotating Huid .
The bility first enters through a vibration of frequency the tion this corresponding to what " " point of bifurcation The snbsequent motion consists first of condcnlsatiol !
of mittter about one dius of the 1lebuln , ction a the opposite dius .
In the stages there erimposed upon this tion abont the axis formed ) these two ction in the neighbourhood of the .
This motion , it ) be seen , strongly suggests the ttio of the into two nebulx of sizc , or , other , the cjcction tellitc .
The influencc of in ivlstnbility ill the gin the nebuln ltstal time tftel time it cools , bility being regained each time cjcction of ittcllitc .
If the tion of the is , the of the ) of the dmost entircly determined by the dircction of the ; for of the rotatio1l other ctors , so that there is no limit to uity the ) tlCS of the litcs .
For , if to tho crifical state of ] ) riunt , meteoritc of size , the resnlt the tion of tcllitc , of 1 ) hich the ) will alnlost cntirely } } on of the .
meteoritc .
The ) ctiolt of , the of the ositio or of this milss .

