]\gt ; 120 On the Multiplication of Definite Integrals .
[ Deo .
] siderable density , in which the testing-tube has to rotate ; and in culating the degree of force which exists in the blood , as shown by thm rapidity of the movements of the tube under the of the magnet , allowamce must be made for the resistance from this source that has to be overcome : consequently any fibrin that has not been removed must , in the same degree in which it the viscidity and density of the fluid , increase the resistance to the movements of the tube , and so interfere with the manifestation of results .
2nd .
By preserving the blood from contact with the atmosphere any change in its physical character from such source is prevented .
3rd .
And for the reason the paramagnetic force in arterial blood must depend upon the amount of oxygen it contains , and the diamagnetic force in venous blood upon carbonic acid , it is evidsnt that the force in the testing-tube as opposed to the force in the suspending medium must be very little , whilst the meohanical qtancs aiforded by such medium must be oonsiderable .
It is therefore essential that the batteryforce should be of sufficient power to develop these forces to the greatest possible extent .
Addendum .
Since vriting the foregoing paper , in repeating the experiments , it has been found that , for the due of them , the blood should be maintained as nearly as possible at its natural temperature .
To eflect this the shape of the vessel ( No. 2 ) been altered , and it is immersed in a water-bath , the heat of which is sustained by a spirit-lamp , its temperature , and also that of the blood , being regulated by thermometers placed in each vessel . .
" " On the Multiplication of Definite IntegraIs.'2 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received October 28 , 1874 .
The definite gral J may be considered geometrically as the integral extended over an area bounded by the straight lines whose equations are Now conceive the axes transformed through an angle of , so ; then the equations to the four straight lines become ' ; On Polishing the Specula of Reflecting Telescopes .
computing the as extended over an area bounded by the four traight lines thus represented , we have After I had discovered this formula , I found that it had been already given ill a memoir by Dr. Winckler in the Vienna Trallsactions for 1862 .
This memoir treats of the transformation of double integrals between fixed limits , and seems to me one of great interest and importance .
My present object is to give two formulae for the multiplication of definite integrals which will not be found in Dr. Winckler 's paper .
Also The use of these formulae is easily seen .
December 17 , JOSEPH DALTON IIOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents vere laid the table , thanks ordered for them .
The Pnpers and ations read:\mdash ; I. On the Specula of Reflccting Telcscopes By W. , F.R.S. , V.P.R.A.S. Received November 11 , 1874 .
The object of this paper is to describe a method of giving a high lustre and true pnrabolic with and certaint.y , by approprlate machinery , to the surfaces of the specula of large reflecting ] escopes .

