1890 .
] On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms .
59 There was some loss in Series I and II in removing the acid from above the stopcock ; this was done by aspirating air through the tube , which was heated by a Bunsen 's burner , and absorbing the acid in a soda solution ; but an acid fume was formed , which refused to be absorbed .
In Series III , the apparatus with the jacketed stopcock was used , and the acid which collected above the stopcock was washed out .
The vapour-density in the extreme right-hand column is calculated for a mixture of hydrochloric acid and water in the proportions found by titration .
These results show that no compound of acid and water is formed , at least at the temperature employed ; they confirm the results of Bineau , who found a vapour-density 10*04 at the atmospheric pressure ( 'Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 7 , 1843 , p. 257 ) .
III .
" On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms , and on the Brontometer , an Instrument designed to facilitate their Study .
" By G. J. Symons , F.R.S. Received April 24 , 1890 .
The fact that a rise of the barometer occurs during thunderstorms has been supposed by many to be newly discovered through the general establishment of self-recording barometers ; but Dr. Hellmann has shown that it was noticed by J. J. Planer as far back as 1782 .
In 1784 , Rosenthal epitomised the facts as follows:\#151 ; " When a thunderstorm approaches the place where a barometer is situated , the mercury in the tube begins to rise ; the nearer the thunder-cloud comes to the zenith of the observer , the higher does the mercury rise , and it reaches its highest point when the storm is at the least distance from the observer .
As soon , however , as the cloud has passed the zenith , or has become more distant from the observer , the weight of the atmosphere begins to decrease and the mercury to fall .
" A few years later , Toaldo determined the amount of the rise in several storms , and found it to be between 1 and 2 lines ( 0*09 in .
to 0*18 in .
) .
Professor Strehlke ( in 1827\#151 ; 30 ) made several sets of observations , and found the rise to be from 0*04 in .
to 0*06 in .
, and was probably the first to point out that the highest point of the barometer is not absolutely synchronous with the passage of the centre of the storm-cloud , but seems rather to be always at a certain distance from it .
Kaemtz , in his * Lehrbuch ' ( 1832 ) , suggests that the rise is produced by the inrush of air towards the site of the storm , this accumulation causing the rise of the barometer as the storm nears the zenith .
Although Luke Howard had a recording barometer at work in the early part of this century , he seems to have failed to notice the 60 Mr. G. J. Symons .
On Barometric Oscillations [ May 8 , phenomenon ; and no one in England seems to have been aware of it until the photographic barometer was started at the RadclifBe Observatory , Oxford .
Manuel Johnson , when describing the new instruments at the British Association meeting at Glasgow , in 1855 , said :\#151 ; " Among the most remarkable results is a sudden rise of the barometer , amounting to 0*035 in .
, and an increase of temperature of 1 ' , coincident with the occurrence of a thunder clap which struck one of the churches in Oxford , July 14th , 1855 .
A similar phenomenon took place during a thunderstorm on August 23rd , when the rise of the barometer was still greater , amounting to 0*049 in .
, though the thunder clap coincident with this rise was distant .
" Mr. Johnson returned to the subject in the volume of ' RadclifBe Observations ' for 1857 , and gave reproductions of fourteen barograms , but the scale is so compressed ( only j in .
per hour , and 1^ in .
per inch of mercury ) that not much is to be learned from them beyond the fact of falls occurring of 0*037 in .
, 0*040 in .
, and 0*046 in .
, and a rise of 0*070 in .
; the notes on the storms are also too vague to be useful .
It may , however , be well to quote the conclusion at which Mr. Johnson arrived , viz.:\#151 ; " A comparison of these notes with the accompanying illustrations cannot , in my opinion , fail to lead to the inference that the disturbances exhibited both on the barometric and the thermometric curves ( especially the former ) are caused by the presence of electricity in the atmosphere , of which we had on these occasions sensible proof .
But they are the more interesting , from the circumstance that similar disturbances occur not unfrequently when there has been no overt manifestation of that agency ; especially during the winter months , when , according to the concurrent testimony of all observers , atmospheric electricity is most abundant .
" The next observation of importance is one quoted by Le Verrier , as reported to him by the observer , M. Goullon , Cure of Saint-Ruffine ( Moselle ) .
He had two barometers , a mercurial and an aneroid .
On the morning of February 5th , 1866 , the weather being stormy with heavy rain , wind S.W. , moderate , but not squally , he had just set and read his barometers , when there was a solitary loud clap of thunder , and instantly both his barometers rose 2 mm. ( 0*08 in .
) .
The Hon. Ralph Abercromby began studying these oscillations in 1868 , and in 1875 summed up the results in the following sentences , one descriptive , the other explanatory:\#151 ; " There are two classes of storm in this country : in the one the barometer rises , in the other it falls .
In the case in which it rises , the sequence of weather is somewhat as follows:\#151 ; After the sky has become overcast , the wind hushed to an ominous silence , and the clouds seem to have lost their motion , the barometer begins to rise suddenly .
1890 .
] during Thunderstorms , and on the Brontometer .
61 In the middle of this rise , sudden heavy rain begins .
After a few minutes the rain , with or without thunder and wind , becomes a little less heavy , and the barometer sometimes falls a little .
The rain then continues till the end of the squall , and as it stops the barometer returns to its original level .
In Great Britain the rise rarely exceeds O'lO in .
, or lasts more than two hours .
These rises are always superadded to a more general rise or fall of the barometer , due either to a cyclone or to one of the small secondaries which are formed on the side of one .
During some rises the wind remains unchanged ; with others there is a more or less complete rotation of the wind .
In all cases the disturbance seems to be confined to the lower strata of the atmosphere .
" .
, . . . .
" Since the rise is always under the visible storm , ; it is propagated at the same rate and in the same manner as the thunderstorm .
Enough is known of the course of the latter for it to be certain that they are not propagated like waves or ripples , and hence these small barometric rises are not due to aerial waves , as has been suggested .
Since their general character is the same whether there is thunder or not , it is evident that electricity , even of that intensity which is discharged disruptively , is not the cause of the rise .
If we look at a squall from a distance , we always see cumulus above it , which is harder or more intense in the front than in the rear of the squall .
Since cumulus is the condensed summit of an ascensional column of air , it is evident that the barometric rise takes place under an uptake of air .
If we consider further that a light ascensional current would give rise simply to an overcast sky , a stronger one to rain , while a still more violent one would project the air suddenly into a region so cold and dry that the resulting electricity would be discharged disruptively as lightning , the foregoing observations show that the greatest rise is under the greatest uptake .
Our knowledge of the mechanics of fluid motion is still too unsettled for us to say with certainty whether or not an ascensional current of air would have a reaction backwards , like a jet of air issuing from an orifice .
" Professor Mascart also , in 1879 , expressed the opinion that electricity had nothing to do with these oscillations , but suggested quite a different explanation .
Premising that they are not produced by all heavy rains , but only when heavy showers fall during bright weather , he suggested that at such times rain falls through non-saturated air , where it would evaporate freely , and so produce a local increase of pressure which in certain thunder-rains might amount to 2 mm. ( 0'08 in .
) .
He explained the diminution of pressure which sometimes occurs , by the reversed phenomenon ; he considered that thunderstorms are formed locally , and suggested that the condensation of masses of vapour into rain drops ought to produce a diminution of pressure .
62 Mr. G. J. Symons .
On Barometric Oscillations [ May 8 , M. Teissereno de Bort and Mr. Bndd have suggested that the rise may he due to the local compression of the air by the multitude of falling rain drops .
In the ' Annales ' of the French Meteorological Office for 1880 , M. Renou gives reproductions of some barograms from the Observatory at Parc St.-Maur .
A very interesting one is reproduced in fig. 1 .
M. Renou does not append any remarks to the plate ; but JTi\lt ; j. 1 .
Parc St.-Maur , Paris , August , 1878 .
from other sources it appears that there was a heavy thunderstorm from 10 till 11 p.m. on August 18th , 1878 .
The total rise may be taken as 0*10 in .
and the fall as nearly 0*15 in .
Dr. Fines , of Perpignan , established a Redier barograph in 1875 , and in a memoir published in 1883 gives reproductions of the traces during several storms .
He states that , considering the present imperfect knowledge of the real conditions and origin of thunderstorms , it seems useless to try to explain records frequently influenced by very distant storms .
One fact , however , is certain , that thunderstorms are accompanied by great condensation , which must cause variations in the density of the air , and therefore should affect the barometer .
He gives 0*144 in .
in 20 minutes as the greatest variation , but says that it rarely exceeds 2 mm. or 3 mm. ( 0*08 in .
or 0*12 in .
) in an hour .
The only facts which are certain from the records at Perpignan are that there is usually ( 1 ) before heavy rain , decrease of pressure and temperature ; ( 2 ) with the rain , sudden increase of wind , rapid rise of barometer , and fall of temperature ; ( 3 ) at the end of the storm-rain , reversal of the last three phenomena .
Dr. Giro FeiTari , who has devoted great attention to the progress 1890 .
] during Thunderstorms , and on the Brontometer .
and character of the thunderstorms of North Italy , considers the rise due to secondaries on the skirts of cyclones .
Professor Bornstein regards them as due to temperature changes not reaching to the upper strata of the atmosphere , in which view he has partly the support of Professor Ferrel .
Professor Klossovsky , of Odessa , says that , " Every storm , whether with or without hail , is accompanied by barometric oscillation .
" If by this phrase he means oscillations like those observed in other parts of Europe , the phenomena must be different in Southern Russia , for one of the difficulties in London , for example , is that they do not occur with all storms , but only with Some .
In the 'Annuaire ' of the Montsouris Observatory for 1889 , M. Descroix , when referring to the subject , gives a barogram for August 15th , 1888 , which , with the accompanying notes , is so typical that it is reproduced ( reduced to the same scale as the others ) in fig. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
Montsouris , Paris , August , 1888 .
It will be noticed that several of the opinions above quoted are contradictory , and it is not known that any one explanation is generally accepted .
The author was much struck by the remarkable curve given by his Redier barograph on the evening of August 2nd , 1879 , and still more so when he found that the curve from a similar instrument at Messrs. Lund and Blockley 's , in Pall Mall , 2f miles S. by W. from his own instrument , was nearly identical ( figs. 3 and 4 ) , and he has long desired to investigate the subject .
At last , in 1886 , he definitely decided upon the phenomena which he considered it necessary to record mechanically .
The author had read the description of Sir Francis Ronalds 's storm clock , and the objects being similar , that 64 Mr. G. J. Symons .
On Barometric Oscillations [ May 8 , Fig. 3 .
Camden Square , London , August , 1879 .
Fig. 4 .
Pall Mall , London , August , 1879 .
description was useful , though , the completed apparatus has scarcely one feature which even resembles Sir Francis 's .
Before describing the instrument , the author considers it only fair to MM .
Richard Freres , to state that not only has the apparatus been constructed , but almost wholly invented , by them ; the author decided upon what the instrument was to do , and upon the scales required , but he left the whole constructional details to MM .
Richard , and considers the result a great credit to the firm .
As the primary object of the instrument* is the study of the phenomena of thunderstorms , it has , for brevity , been termed a Brontometer , or Thunderstorm-measurer .
* Other uses for it are already apparent .
1890.J during Thunderstorms , and on the G5 It is provided with endless paper , 12 in .
wide , travelling under the various recording pens at the rate of 12 in .
per minute , or 6 ft. per hour .
This is about 150 times faster than is usual in meteorological instruments , and enables the time of any phenomenon to be read off with certainty to a single second of time .
The traces are made in aniline ink by a series of seven Richard pens .
The first pen is driven by the clock which feeds the paper , so that the time scale and the paper must go together .
The pen usually produces a straight line , which serves as the base line for all measurements , but at 55 seconds after each minute the pen begins to go , at an angle of about 45 ' , one-tenth of an inch to the left , and at the sixtieth second it .
flies back to its original position .
The second pen is driven by one of Richard 's Anerao-cinemographs , a name which they have given to a pattern of anemometer not yet known in England .
The external portion has some resemblance to the ordinary windmill governor , but it differs from it in that the plates are curved , not flat ; they are made of aluminium , and are so light that they have little momentum , and have thus a great advantage over cups , which run on for many seconds after the wind force has decreased or ceased .
The fans make one revolution for each metre of wind that passes , and send an electric current to the brontometer , where it acts on an electro-magnet , and tends to draw this ( 2nd ) pen towards the left ; but a train of clockwork is constantly tending to draw the pen to the right , the joint result being that the pen continuously shows , not the total motion ( as is the case with most anemometers ) , but the actual velocity almost second by second .
It does this certainly with an error of less than five seconds , for the fans will stop dead in less than that time , and the clockwork train will bring the pen from indicating a velocity of 70 miles an hour to 20 miles an hour in three seconds , and down to a dead calm in seven seconds .
The trace will thus resemble that of a pressure anemometer , but with a much more open scale than was ever before available .
The third pen is actuated by a handle , and can be set at zero or at 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 spaces from it .
The author 's original idea was , partly by watching a storm-rain-gauge , and partly by estimation , to decide on the intensity of the rain and to indicate that intensity by moving the pen further and further from zero as the fall becomes heavier .
Experience alone will show whether that is , or is not , superior to moving it one step for each y^th of an inch of fallen rain , which can be done by making a Crosley rain-gauge send a current into the room where the brontometer is placed , and strike a bell there .
In a heavy storm there will , however , be so much for the observer to do , that very probably count would be lost .
It may , therefore , be necessai'y to make it act automatically .
VOL. XLVIII , F 66 Mr. G. J. Symons .
On Barometric Oscillations [ May 8 , The fourth pen is actuated somewhat like a piano .
On the occurrence of a flash of lightning , the ' observer presses a key , the pen travels slightly to the right , and flies back to zero .
Referred to the automatic time-scale , this gives , to a second , the time at which the key was depressed .
The fifth pen is similar , but , being intended to record the thunder , the observer will continue to hold down the key until the roll is inaudible .
The time of the departure of this pen from zero will evidently be later than that for the lightning by the time-interval due to the distance of the flash , and possibly something may be learned from the accurate record of the duration of the thunder .
The sixth pen is similar to the third , and is intended to record the time , duration , and intensity of hail .
The seventh and last pen is devoted to an automatic record of atmospheric pressure .
As the rapid motion of the paper , which is indispensable for studying the details of a thunderstorm , has enlarged the time-scale more than a hundredfold , it was imperative that the barometric scale should itself be greatly enlarged .
But the range of the barometer in London is more than 2^ in .
, and no enlargement less than ten times the natural ( mercurial ) scale would be of any use ; hence a breadth of 25 in .
of paper would be necessary , unless some mode of shifting the indication could be devised .
Several plans were tried , but finally a modification of Richard 's statoscope has been adopted , which is so sensitive that it will indicate the opening or shutting of a door in any part of the house , gives a scale of 30 in .
for each mercurial inch ( t.e. , about three times that of a glycerine barometer ) , and yet only requires 4 in .
breadth of the brontometer paper .
Without entering into all the details of construction , it is desirable to explain the general principle , and its application .
As it was essential that the apparatus should record accurately to O'OOl in .
of mercurial barometric pressure , it was evident that friction had to be reduced to a minimum , and considerable motive power provided .
This is done by placing in the base of the brontometer a galvanized iron chamber , which contains about 31 cubic feet of air ; on the upper part are a series of elastic chambers , .similar to the vacuum boxes of aneroid barometers , but much larger .
When the instrument is to be put in action , these chambers are connected with the large air-chamber , and a tap is closed which shuts \#169 ; ff communication with the external air .
Any subsequent increase , or decrease , of atmospheric pressure will compress or allow to dilate the air in these chambers , and the motion of the elastic ones produces that of the recording pen .
Obviously , any large change in the temperature of the confined air would vitiate the readings ; but ( 1 ) the instrument is not required to give absolute , but merely differential , values , and ( 2 ) the influence 1890 .
] during Thunderstorms , and on the Brontometer .
of the changes of temperature is greatly reduced by the chamber being surrounded with 4 in .
thick of non-conducting material , besides nearly 1 in .
of wood outside of it .
The change of temperature m a room , and during the short time that the statoscope will be worked without resetting to zero ( i.e. , without opening the tap ) , has not hitherto produced any measurable effect .
The author hopes , in a subsequent paper , to have the honour of laying before the Society the results obtained from this novel apparatus .
Appendix .
List of some Papers and Memoirs on the subject of the Paper .
Planer , J. J. " Obs. Oscillationis Mercurii in Tubo Torricelliano Erfordise institula .
" ' Acta Acad. Moguntinae/ 1782- 3 .
Rosenthal , G. E. [ " Merkmale fur das Herannalien d. Gewitter .
" ] c Mag. Neueste Physik/ yol .
4 , Part I , 1786 .
Toaldo , Gt .
" Dei moti del Barometro nei Temporali .
" * Giornale Astro-Meteorologico/ 1794 .
( The note is dated April 3rd , 1795 ; see also his collected works\#151 ; i Completa Raccolta , Ac .
, * Venezia , 4 vols .
, 8vo .
, 1802 , yol .
3 , p. 104 , and vol. 4 , p. 41 .
) Frenzel , F. 0 .
[ " Veranderung d. Barometerstandes bei Gewittern .
" ] Gren 's ' Neues Journal der Physik/ vol. 4 ( 1797 ) , p. 250 .
Gronau , K. L. " Ueber die Gewitter in den Gegenden von Berlin .
" ' Schweigger 's Journal/ vol. 31 ( 1821 ) , p. 128 .
Strehlke , F. lt Ueber d. Einfluss d. Gewitter auf den Barometerstand .
" ' Poggendorff , s Annalen/ vol. 19 ( 1830 ) , p. 148 .
Kaemtz , L. F. 'Lehrbuch der Meteorologie/ vol. 1 ( 1831 ) , p. 351 .
Johnson , M. J. " On the Detection and Measurement of Atmospheric Electricity by the Photo-barograph and Thermograph .
" ' British Assoc. Report/ 1855 , Part II , p. 40 .
---- ' Meteorological Observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford/ 1857 , p. 34 .
Gotjllon .
" Elevation brusque du Barom\amp ; tree pendant un Coup de Tonnerre .
" ' Bulletin International/ Mars 21 , 1866 .
White house , W. " On a new Instrument for recording minute Variations of Atmospheric Pressure .
" ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 19 ( 1871 ) , p. 491 .
Abercromby , Hon. R. " On the Barometric Fluctuations in Squalls and Thunderstorms .
" 4 Meteor .
Soc. Quart .
Journ./ vol. 2 ( 1875 ) , p. 450 .
Fines .
" Courbes du Barographe Redier a Perpignan pendant les Orages des 7 et 11 Juillet , 1877 .
" * Quinzaine Meteorologique/ 1877 , p. 66 .
Mascart , E. " Sir ^Inscription des Phenomfenes Meteorologiques , en particulier de rElectricite et de la Pression .
" 'Journal de Physique/ vol. 8 ( 1879 ) , p. 329 ; and ' Annuaire de la Soc. Mat .
de France/ vol. 28 ( 1879 ) , p. 7 .
Schenzl , G. " Ungewitter vom 23 Februar , 1879 .
" * Zeits .
d. Oesterr .
Gesells .
f. Meteor./ vol. 14 ( 1879 ) , p. 146 .
Renou , Ei [ [ Diagrams only .
] * Annals du Bureau Central Meteor./ 1880 , Part I. F 2 Presents .
[ May 8 , Fines .
Climatologie du Rousillon .
" ' Annales du Bureau Central Meteor.,1 1881 , Part I , B. 118 .
Assmann .
[ Interesting reproductions of the Magdeburg barograph curves are given in the 'Jahrb .
der Meteor .
Beob .
der Wetterwarte der Magdeburgischen Zeitung/ Jahr .
1\#151 ; 5 , Magdeburg , 1883-87 .
] Koppen .
" Ueber Barometerschwankungen beim Gewitter .
" ' Tageblatt der 57 Naturforscherversammlung zu Magdeburg/ 1884 , p. 301 .
Hellmann , G. " Eine historische Bemerkung .
" * Zeits .
d. Oesterr .
Gesells .
f. Meteor./ vol. 19 ( 1884 ) , p. 43 .
Bezold , W. yon .
" Ueber die Yertheilung des Luftdruckes und der Temperatur wahrend grosserer Gewitter .
" 'Zeits .
d. Oesterr .
Gesells .
f. Meteor./ vol. 19 ( 1884 ) , p. 281 .
Schonrock , A. " Ueber Kleine unregelmassige Schwankungen des Luftdruckes nach den Aufzeichnungen des Barographen .
" * Zeits .
d. Oesterr .
Gesells .
f. Meteor./ vol. 19 ( 1884 ) , p. 396 .
Ferrari , C. u Ueber die Vertheilung des Luftdruckes und der Temperatur bei Gewittern .
" ' Zeits .
d. Oesterr .
Gesells .
f. Meteor./ vol. 19 ( 1884 ) , p. 426 .
---- " Andamento tipico dei Registratori durante un Temporale .
" ' Annali Meteorologia Italiana/ vol. 7 ( 1885 ) , Part I , p. [ 65 ] .
\#166 ; ---"Ueber die Kriimmung der Barometer-curve wahrend des Gewitters .
" * Das Wetter/ vol. 1 ( 1885 ) , p. 135 .
Schonrock , A. " Ueber kleine unregelmassige Barometer-Schwankungen .
" ' Wild 's Repertorium/ vol. 9 ( 1885 ) , No. 8 .
Klossovsky , A. ' Les Orages en Russie .
' Odessa , 1886 .
Bornstein , R. u Die Gewitter vom 13\#151 ; 17 Juli , 1884 , in Deutschland*1* 'Zeits .
f. Meteor./ vol. 22 ( 1887 ) , p. 443 .
Less , E. " Ueber kurze Luftdruekschwankungen , welche in Begleitung starker Blitzschlage auftreten .
" 'Zeits .
f. Meteor./ vol. 23 ( 1888 ) , p. 151 .
Descroix , L. " Phenomenes accidentels ... .
a Montsouris en 1888 .
" ' Ann. de FObs .
de Montsouris pour 1889/ p. 195 .
Ferrel , W. ' A Popular Treatise on the Winds/ 1889 .
IV .
" On the Heating Effects of Electric Currents .
No. IV .
" By William Henry Preeoe , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1890 .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 22 .
Presents , May 8 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Berlin :\#151 ; Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Verhandlungen .
Bd .
XVII .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Berlin 1890 .
The Society .
Brussels :\#151 ; Academy Royale de Medecine de Belgique .
Memoires Couronnes .
Tome X. Fasc .
1 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1890 .
The Academy .

