" Appercu sir un maniere nouvelle d'envisager la theory cristallographique dans le but d'etablir les rapports de celle-ci avec la form spherique , ou elliptique , des molecules , ainsi qu'avec l'effet des milieux sir la form cristalline .
" Par M. L. A. Necker .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. In this communication , after adverting to Haiiy 's theory of cry ?
stallization , in which the molecules are considered to be polyhedrons , to the views subsequently taken by Wollaston and Davy , and particularly to Brewster 's conclusions , that there ought to be different forms of molecules , some spherical , some elliptical with two equal axes , and a third unequal to these , and others elliptical with three unequal axes ; M. Necker states , that Mr. Dana is the only mineralogist who has attempted to introduce into crystallography the consideration of molecules with curved surfaces .
Although , adopting the forms proposed by Brewster , and adding to them those of oblique solids , by introducing the idea of polarity in the axes of crystallization , Mr. Dana has successfully applied this molecular theory to crystallography , yet he goes no farther ; and the most important and difficult steps in this branch of physical science still reraain to be made , and many phenomena in crystallization , with the cause of which we are at present wholly unacquainted , still require to be explained by the theory .
The author particularly refers to the important facts discovered by MM .
Leblanc and Beudant , of the influence that solutions or mediums in which bodies crystallize have on the secondary forms which these bodies take ; and states , that the present views of crystallography afford not even a glimpse of the least relation between such forms and the properties of the mediums .
Why , he asks , does pure water appear , in general , to tend to simplify the forms , precisely as do certain mixtures , those of chlorite in axinite , quartz , felspar , &amp; c , and why , on the contrary , do other mediums , acid or earthy , complicate them ?
Impressed with the importance which must attach to the solution of such questions , M. Necker offers some ideas which long meditation on this important subject has suggested to him .
Adopting the ellipsoid as the form of the molecule , he remarks , that the more complicated the form of the crystal , the more the number of its faces increases , and the more , at the same time , does it approach to the ellipsoidal form of the molecule ; and , on the con ?
trary , the simpler the form becomes , the more does it recede from that with a curved surface .
All crystalline forms may be considered as making a part of one or more series , which , in each system of crystallization , have for extreme terms , on the one side , the most sim ?
ple solid of the system , or that which has the least number possible of faces , and on the other , the solid having the greatest number , namely a sphere or an ellipsoid .
Although it is more convenient in the calculation of forms to start from the most simple polyhedral forms in order to arrive at the more complex , nothing proves that such has been the route which nature has foliowed .
As long as we considered the integral molecules as polyhedral , it appeared natural to view them as grouping in polyhedrons ; but when once we cease to admit polyhedral molecules , it then becomes most natural to suppose , that ellipsoidal molecules should have a tendency , more or less decided , to group in solids of the same form as themselves , when no extraneous circumstances interpose an obstacle to this tendency .
In order to give an idea of the kind of effect which would be produced on the form of the solid by these obstacles , such as the nature of the medium in which crystallization takes place , a hurried or tumultuous crystallization , &amp; c , the author conceives that each mole ?
cule , as well as each solid formed by their union , has different axes of attraction , endued with different degrees of energy , and symmetrically disposed in groups , the weaker and the most numerous round the stronger , which are , at the same time , the smallest in number ; all , in short , symmetrically arranged around the principal axes of crystallization , which are the most energetic of all .
Thus we shall conceive that sort of polarity by which crystallization is distinguished from molecular attraction .
The effect of obstacles , such as the attraction exerted by mediums , by interposed bodies , by the molecular attraction of the molecules themselves , when they arrive both in too great numbers and too rapidly towards the same point , will be the annihilation of the weaker axes ; whence will follow the formation of a tangent plane to the spherical or elliptical surface .
If the action of the obstacle goes on increasing , axes of attraction , which , by their intensity , had resisted the first obstacles , are destroyed by the new ones ; and new tangential planes are produced , in which those that had been first formed finish by being confounded : thus it will happen that , by the increase of obstacles , the surface of the solid from being curved has become polyhedral , and finishes by presenting only an assemblage of a small number of plane faces , separated by edges , and placed tangentially at the extremity of the axes whose forces have longest resisted the action of the obstacles .
But since the most energetic axes are necessarily the least numerous , the greater the energy they possess , the number of faces which bound the solid will continually decrease according as the obstacles increase ; until , at length , the solid , reduced to its most simple form , no longer presents any but that constituted by the principal axes of crystallization , terminating at the summits of the solid angles of the simple poly ?
hedron , which axes alone have been capable of withstanding the action of all the obstacles opposed to the tendency of the molecules to unite in the form of an ellipsoid .
On this hypothesis , the author explains how common salt , alum , sulphate of iron , &amp; c , crystallize in pure water in the most simple forms , the reciprocal attraction of their molecules being controlled and diminished by the affinity exerted on them by the molecules of the water ; whilst if some of these molecules of water are neutralized by mixture with another soluble principle , they cease to act as an obstacle to the crystallization of the body , which then takes forms more complicated and approaching nearer to that of the normal solid with a curved surface .
M. Necker considers that the new views he has sketched require , for their complete developement , many ulterior details , as well as many new experiments and new facts ; but that the tendency which the crystals of all systems present , to progress towards the curved surface form appropriate to each system , by the complication of their forces , is a fundamental fact of the first importance ; and that an advance has been made by showing the bearing of the important experiments of MM .
Leblanc and Beudant , and by having brought the theory of crystallography nearer to those views which the pro ?
gress of chemistry and of physics have led us to adopt , relative to the form of the elementary molecules of bodies .

