]\gt ; Vibrations of an Elastic Plate in Contact Water .
205 of the knowledge obtained from a study of its initial motion .
In particular , it can be shown that the curyat , ur of the trajectory caused by gravity gives rise to a yaw of the axis of the shell to the right of the vertical plane containing the direction of projection ( when the spin is right-handed ) , which increases along the trajectory .
cross-wind force caused by this yaw acts to the and causes the drift mentioned above .
Calculations of the drift based on the tion obtained from these experiments have been made and found in fair reement with the observed value .
The breakdown of the usual approximation of nose-on motion at end of very long or sharply curved tories can also be studied by means of modified equations of motions suitable for the case in which the and drift effects become , provided the values of the corresponding connponents have been obtained .
This can be done by the analysis of initial motions in which the shells are almost or quite unstable , and large of the yaw are developed in consequence .
Such observations have been made , but their analysis has not yet been lrried out .
In practice , however , large values of the yaw do not in general occur until the velocity of the shell has fallen to a low value , so that this case is largely covered by wind-channel experiments .
On the Vibrations of an Elasiic Plate in Contact with Water .
By LAMB , F.B.S. ( Received October 6 , 1920 .
) In connection with the problem of submarine question alose as to the pitch of the fundamental note of a thin circular plate or diaphragm of given material and dimensions , filling an aperture in a plane wall which is in contact on one side with an otherwise unlimited mass of water .
The following inyestigation , which includes some extensions , is now published by permission .
To simplify the theoretical treatment , the wall is supposed to be and the plate to be firmly clamped to it along the circumference , although these conditions are only imperfectly fulfilled in practice .
Even with these limitations an exact solution is out of the question , but a sufficient approximation can be obtained by Rayleigh 's method of an assumed type , * which gives good results if the type be suitably chosen .
It is known that the frequency estimated in this way will be somewhat too high .
'Theory of Sound , ' S90 .
Prof. H. Lamb .
On the of an 1 .
If be the thickness of the the value of Youhgs modulus for the material , and Poisson 's ratio , the potential energy , ( 1 ) where ilS is an element of area , and are the principal curvatures of this element .
For a clamped at the edge the integral curvature obviously vanishes , and the rand in ( 1 ) may therefore be replaced by ( 2 ) If the normal displacement at a distance from the centre , the boundary conditions are for , the radius of the aperture .
The simplest assumption consistent with these conditions , and with the obvious requirement that for , is , ( 3 ) where is a function of only .
This makes and thence .
( 4 ) The kinetic energy of the plate is , ( 5 ) where is the density .
Hence if the water were absent , and the plate were constrained to vibrate in the form ( 3 ) , the frequency would be given by , ( 6 ) where , ( 7 ) i.e. , is the velocity of propagation of extensional waves in an infinite thin plate of the same material and thickness .
Hence .
( 8 ) * Rayleigh , S 214 .
Elastic Plate in ontact with The vibra of a clamped circular plate in vacuo have been discussed by F. Meyer sir Capellen , *whose numerical results give , for the gravest symmetrical mode , Our approximation , therefore , gives a frequency which is too high by about 1 per cenG .
An improved approximation , iven below in S7 , rees almost exactly with the true value .
For an iron plate , assuming ( C.G.S. ) , we have cm .
and thence from ( S ) .
( 10 ) To take a practical example , for a plate inches in diameter and -inch thick , the formula ( 8 ) makes 2 .
The presence of the water , in our problem , has the effect , first of lowering the frequency on account of the increased inertia , and secondly of damping the vibrations owing to the energy carried off in the form of sound-waves .
If ( as we assume ) the wave-length is considerable as compared with the diameter of the plate the former effect is practically the same as if the water were incompressible .
On this supposition the velocity-potential at any point of the water is , ( 12 ) where is the distance of the point in question from the element of the plate .
This is identical with the electric-potential of a plate of surfacedensity .
Now by a formula the potential of a disk of surface-density at points of the disk itself is in Gauss ' hypergeometric notation .
'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 33 ( 1888 ) .
See also Bayleigh , .
vol. 42 , pp. 290 , 291 , where reference is made to Ferrers , ' Quart .
Prof. H. Lamb .
On the Vibrations of Hence if for greater generality we write for a moment , ( 13 ) the velocity-potential at the surface of the disk .
( 14 ) The kinetic energy of the water is therefore : ( 15 ) It is easily proved that .
( 16 ) Hence , putting , the formula ( 15 ) becomes ( 17 ) By way of verification we may put , which makes ( 18 ) This is the case of a disk oscillating in a aperture .
, if we have , ( 19 ) may slso be verified by comparison with a known electrical result .
For the present purpose we put , which makes ( 21 ) The of the water is virtually to increase the inertia in the ratio , or , say , where .
( 22 ) frequency is lowered in the ratio , and is therefore , by ( 8 ) , .
( 23 ) *Another derivation of this formula is given at the end of the paper .
Bayleigh , S302 .
Elastic Plate in Contact with Water .
For an iron plate of the dimensions chosen in S1 we have The frequency is lowered in the ratio 0542 , and is accordingly now about 550 .
The preceding calculation relates only to the gravest mode of vibration , where the whole surface of the plate is at any instant in the same phase .
In the case of a bell , or of a plate vibrating in segments separated by nodal lines , the effect of the inertia of the water will be less , to the of lateral motion neal the uface , between adjacent ments in opposite phases .
3 .
To estimate the rate of damping we must calculate the emission of energy in the form of sound-waves .
If we put , ( 24 ) the integral of the normal over the surface of plate is The effect at a distance is , therefore , that of a simple source , of .
The mean rate at which energy is carried outwal.ds by the henrispherical waves is where is the velocity of sound in the water .
The mean energy of the plate and adjacent water , being meau kinetic , is .
( 27 ) Equating the rate of decay of the to the emission we find , ( 28 ) where .
( 29 ) The amplitude diminishes according to the law The importance of the damping is best estimaCe in relation to the frequency .
The degree of persistence of the vibrations is indicated by the number of vibrations which elapse while the amplitude ditninishes in the ratio , viz. , .
Referring to ( 23 ) we find .
( 30 ) The dimensions of the plate only occur here the value of * Rayleigh , S280 .
Prof. H. Lamb .
On the of an Putting we find for an iron plate , ( 31 ) and thence for the particular plate described in S1 .
( 32 ) .
In spite of the small persistence thus indicated , the vibrations are far from being " " dead beat The damping , though considerable , is not sufficient to affect the frequency appreciably , this influence always of the , which is less than 1/ 1000 in the present case .
There is also a considerable degree of selective resonance to external sources of sound .
The general rule is that the energy of resonance falls to one-half the nlaximum when the frequency of the source differs from the natural frequency of the resonator by the fraction , approximately .
Thus in .
the above example , where the frequency ( as modified by the water ) is about 550 , the range over which the energy will exceed half the maximum is confined between limits 530 and 570 , approximately .
In all cases the persistence of the vibrations ( as measured in periods ) will be greater , and the resonance will attain a greater maximum , and at the same time be more concentrated , the thinner the plate .
The preceding calculation assumes , of course , that the loss of energy is wholly due to the sound-waves generated in the water .
effect of viscosity is unimportant , but in practice some energy will be lost by vibrations communicated to the wall in which the plate is fixed .
4 .
The gravest mode of vibration with a nodal diameter admits of a similar approximation , and the comparison has points of interest .
Iaking polar co-ordinntes in the plane of the diaphragm we haVe .
( 33 ) Assuming , ( 34 ) we find and thence The kinetic energy of the plate is ( 37 ) Elastic in Contact with Hence if the water be absent the frequency corresponding to our assumed type is determined by , ( 38 ) or .
( 39 ) A closer approximation , in S9 below , show .
that this result about 3 per cent. too high .
For an iron plate ( 39 ) makes ( 40 ) which may be compared with .
5 .
To allow for the inertia of the water we proceed in S2 .
The potential of a disk of density at points of the disk itself is .
( 41 ) Hence , putting and to ( 12 ) , the velocity-potential at the surface of the disk , in our problem , .
( 42 ) The kinetic energy of the adjacent ater is therefore ( 43 ) It may be shown without difficulty that ( 44 ) Hence , putting , we find after a little arithmetic ( 45 ) The frequency is therefore reduced by the inertia of the water in the ratio , where .
( 46 ) * This is obtained by differentiation of ( 13 ) and ( 14 ) with respect to .
A correction on account of the boundary vanishes in the present case .
Cf . .
cit. VOL. XCVIU .
Prof. H. Lamb .
On the Vibrations of an For the particular disk above specified , the ratio is , as against for the gravest symmetrical mode .
6 .
To calculate the emission of energy , we require the value of the velocity-potential at a great distance from the centre of the diaphragm .
This is iven by the integral ( 47 ) where , taken over the area of the plate .
* Here denotes the distance of the point considered , whose spherical polar co-ordinates are ( say ) , from the element whose polar co-ordinates in plano are .
Hence , ( 48 ) approximately , and therefore Hence if A , ( 50 ) the value of at a great distance is .
( 51 ) the real part , we have A ( 52 ) corresponding to the norn ) velocity A .
( 53 ) The flux of energy across a hemispherical surface of radius is .
( 54 ) Substituting from ( 52 ) , and taking the meall value with respect to the time , we obtain .
( 55 ) Rayleigh , Elastic Plate in Contact with Water .
The mean energy is , ( 56 ) where is iven by ( 46 ) .
The argument of S3 then shows that the amplitude diminishes according to the ] , where .
( 57 ) Since , and ( 58 ) we tind .
( 69 ) For an iron plate of the special dimensions above given , this makes , ( 60 ) which may be contrasted with ( 32 ) .
7 .
The approximations of SS1-3 are probably near enough for any practical purpose , regard being had to the variations in the values of and for the same material , and Lhe difficulty in securing the ideal condition of clamping .
It may be of some interest , however , to show how the approximations may be improved .
Considering , fi.rst , the symmetrical vibrations , we assume , in place of ( 3 ) , , ( 61 ) where is as yet undetermined .
The consequent value of the energy of the plate is .
( 62 ) The kinetic energy of the plate alone is Hence , for the plate when vibrating vctcuo according to the constrained type ( 61 ) Since this is , in any case , an over-estimate for the gravest mode , we choose so as to make the second fraction a minimum .
Now the stationary values of the function Prof. H. Lamb .
On the of an are given by the quadratic , ( 66 ) which in our case reduces to .
( 67 ) The roots of this are .
( 68 ) The former of these makes ( 69 ) which is practically the correct value .
The second of the roots ( 68 ) gives a rough approximation for that mode of ymmetrical vibration in which there is a nodal circle .
It makes , ( 70 ) the correct numerical factor about 8 .
When allowance is to be made for the inertia of the water , the improved calculation becomes rather intricate .
The leading steps only are given in what follows .
The velocity-potential at the disk is , ( 71 ) by ( 14 ) .
To find the kinetic energy of the water we must multiply this expression by and integrate from Co .
The result , obtained with the help of ( 16 ) , is ( 72 ) or ( 73 ) Hence , referring to ( 62 ) and ( 63 ) .
( 74 ) Elastic in Contact with Water .
The minimum value of the second fraction has to be determined for each case separately .
In the example already used for illustration we have , and therefore .
The fraction in question has then the form ( 65 ) with The equation to tho stationary values of ?
is whencc .
( 76 ) The lower root makes .
( 77 ) The frequency is therefore reduced by the inel .
Gia of the water in the ratio , which differs only slightly from the result found by simpler method .
9 .
For the gravest mode with a nodal diameter we may assume .
( 78 ) This ( 80 ) Hence , for ibra 1 in .
( 81 ) The minimum value of the fraction , whencc .
( 82 ) The effect of the inertia of the water ntay be worked out as in S8 , bul it is hardly worth while to reproduce tho details .
I find that the frequency is educed in the ratio , which differs little from the value previously found .
Note.\mdash ; The result quoted immediately after equation ( 12 ) was deduced from Ferrers ' work on the potentials of heterogeneous ellipsoids .
An independent proof of the formula ( 14 ) to which it leads may be given in terms of Bessel 's functions .
VOL. XCVnI A. Prof H. M. cdollald .
Transmission of If th distribution of normal velocity over the disk be velocity-potential on the positive side ( ) , ( 84 ) where denotes distance from tho plane of the disk .
anding J , and writing , we find ( ) ( 85 ) .
( 81 ) Hcncc , putting in ( 84 ) we have the fornluh ( 14 ) .
nsmission oVcxves around the By H. M. MACDONALD , ( Reoeived August 16 , 1920 .
) 1 a previous the law of decrease of the amplitude of the magnetic force of a train of electric waves emitted from a simple oscillator at the surface of a perfectly conducting sphere as the distance of the receiver ( also on the surface ) from the oscillator increases was investigated , and in a later communicationS the effect of imperfect conduction was discussed .
The method adopted consisted ( 1 ) in showing that the terms of the series for which contributed the principal part of were those for which 'Hydrodynamics , ' 1916 , p. 130 .
Nielsen , ' Theory der Cylinderfunktionen , ' p. 193 , or Schafheitlein , ' Theory der Bessel'schen ktionen , ' p. 76 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , ( 1914 ) .
S .
Soc. Proc , vol. 92 , p. 493 ( 1916 ) .

