De la Structure des Vaisseaux Anglais , consider &amp; ^e dans ses derniers Perfectionnements .
Par Charles Dupin , Correspondant de I'lnstitut de France , 8fc .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read December 19 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 86 .
] Being engaged in collecting materials for a work entitled " A Picture of Naval Architecture in the 18th and 19th Centuries , " the author was induced to visit this country , with a view to become acquainted with the various innovations and improvements lately introduced here in the art of ship-building ; and , in the present communication , offers some remarks upon .
the plans proposed by Mr. Seppings , an account of which has formerly been before the Royal Society , and is printed in their Transactions for 1814 .
After giving an outline of the fundamental principles upon which Mr. Seppings 's improvements in naval architecture principally depend , and dwelling especially upon the diagonal pieces of timber which he employs to strengthen the usual rectangular frame-work , the author proceeds to state that similar contrivances were long ago suggested and even practised by the French ship-builders , in order to give strength to the general fabric of their vessels .
Instead of making the ceiling parallel to the exterior planks , they arranged it in the oblique direction of the diagonals of the parallelograms formed by the timber and the ceiling , in the whole of that part of the ship 's sides between the orlop and limber-strake next the kelson .
They then covered this ceiling with riders , as usual , and placed crosspieces between them in the direction of the second diameter of the parallelogram .
This system , however , was abandoned in the French navy , on account of its expense , of its diminishing the capacity of the hold , and of the erroneous notion that the longitudinal length of the ship was diminished by the obliquity of the ceiling .
In 1755 , the Academy of Sciences rewarded M. Chauchot , a naval engineer , for the suggestion of employing oblique for transverse riders ; and in 1772 , M. Clairon des Lauriers employed diagonal strengtheners in the construction of the frigate l'Oiseau .
Having cited these and other instances to prove that Mr. Seppings 's principle is not new , at the same time allowing that the merit of rendering its utility probable , and of overcoming many difficulties in its execution , is due to that gentleman , the author proceeds more particularly to inquire how far it contributes to strengthen the vessel , so as to enable it to oppose changes of form from the action of external powers .
If every elementary part of the vessel rested immediately on the sea , it would displace its weight of water , and would only be submitted to the slight pressure of the fluid .
But as only a part of the external surface of the vessel is in contact with the water , this part is called upon to support a degree of pressure of the fluid capable of counteracting the weight of the whole mass .
Hence the vessel becomes convex or arched , the curve extending from the head to the stern ; but as this bending is not of constant magnitude , it is evident that , in order to apportion the resistance adequately , the strength must be made greatest where there is the greatest strain .
The author furnishes some new theorems for the determination of these points , and thence concludes that the point of greatest curvature lies between the quarter-deck and forecastle , across the gangways , and much nearer the head of the ship than is commonly supposed ; and that the effect of the arching is to diminish the fastness of sailing , and to increase the difficulty of performing evolutions , especially with the sails .
As vessels , therefore , must inevitably suffer by this effect of arching , any method of diminishing that tendency must be valuable .
M. Dupin suggests a method by which it might be ascertained whether Mr. Seppings 's plan is calculated to diminish the tendency of vessels to arch ; upon which subject he deems Mr. Seppings 's experiments , detailed in the Philosophical Transactions , as unsatisfactory .
This method , however , has not hitherto been tried , and the question , consequently , cannot be decided upon .
In the meantime , says the author , there is every reason to suppose that it would prove favourable to Mr. Seppings 's plan .

