]\gt ; A of tic Actions at Solid Surfaces.\mdash ; IV .
The Interaction Carbon Monoxide and Steam Conditioned by Iron Oxide and by Copper .
By E. F. ISTRONG , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. , and T. P. HILDITCH , ( Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received Iarch18 , 1920 .
) The process summed up in the equation is limited by the conditions which govern any homogeneous system in equilibrium : if the concentration of carbon monoxide , water , carbon dioxide , and hydrogen be denoted respectively , by the usual application of the law of mass action or The value of , the " " equilibrium constant depends on the temperature at which interaction takes place .
ives the following experimental values of between 20 C. and 60 C.:\mdash ; These values , of course , define merely the extreme limits of composition of the gas-mixture , by whatever intermediate steps the transformation be effected .
As a matter of fact , a mixture of carbon lnonoxide and steam at any of the temperatures mentioned , in the absence of a third , would attain equilibrium only after an exceedingly long time .
It is well known , however , that many metallic oxides accclerate the attainment of equilibrium , specially prepared oxides of iron being very effective ; the interaction has been utilised in the manufacture of hydrogen , the first attempt being that made by the Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik in hydrogen for the Haber ammonia synthesis .
vol. 68 , VOL. XCVII.\mdash ; A. Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
The action of the iron oxide may be represented as follows:\mdash ; ( a ) ( b ) or together The action belongs to the same class as several others we have described in these papers , and may be rarded as proceeding by a series of chemical unions between the four agents and the iron catalyst .
Our present object is to describe experiments which show that copper , specially prepared for use as a catalyst [ the same material which served for our experiments ( Part III of this series ) upon the enation of ethyl alcohol can also condition the transformation carbon monoxide and steam into carbon dioxide and hydrogen .
Whereas , however , iron oxide at a suitable temperature causes the action to proceed almost to the point of equilibrium , copper , even at its optimum temperature , does not effect more than 50-70 per cent. of the possible amount of chemical change ; the exact proportion is to some extent a function of the composition of the mixture used .
These results are of considerable theoretical interest from the point of view of the general theory of catalysis which we have lately put forward , because they illustrate very beautifully the specific action of two different of catalyst , efl'ecting ultimately the same change , but , as we shall show , by an entirely different mechanism , involving the production of intermediate systems of quite distinct kinds .
At first sight , it seem that the case was } in which no chemical change was involved , the process in each instance merely due to physical adsorption or concentration of the acting gases at the active surface ; but the evidence which we are about to quote on the relation of temperature to the amount of action produced is sufficient to ative this view .
It is obvious that copper cannot exercise the function we have elsewhere asc1ibed to iron oxide , as water has no detectable action on the copper catalyst , at all events up to 50 C. Sabatier and Mailhe* have observed .
on the other hand , that finely divided copper is capable of decomposing formic acid into carbon dioxide 'Compt .
Rend vol. 152 , p. 1212 ( 1911 ) .
A Study of Actions at Solid Surfaces .
and hydrogen from C. upwards , and our experiments go to show that it is this specific property of copper which accounts for the results we have obtained .
Apparently , there is a tendency to the equilibrium H. COOH , the balance being overwhelmingly in favour of the uncombined components , as indicated ; in presence of copper the formic acid is partially or wholly removed in the sense H. UOOH so that ultimately a large proportion of the carbon monoxide is transforI ) into dioxide .
It is well known , of course , that under quite different conditions carbon monoxide will yield formates ; for example , under high and at a moderate temperature , this gas may be readily absorbed by caustic alkalies .
Again , K. A. Hofmann* has explained the oxidation , at the ordinary temperature , of carbon monoxide to dioxide at a copper surface moistel ] with alkali by assuming the formation of a labile isoformate , .C.OK ; production of this substance is only minimal under ordinary conditions but is stimulated in presence of copper .
We have succeeded in that a mixture of carbon monoxide steam , under the conditions of our experiments ( at about 350 C. ) but in the absence of any catalyst , may give rise to the momentary formation of snlall but quite detectable quantities of formic acid .
Thus , when ammonia was added to the gases before passing through the heated tube .
in the expectation that some amrnonium remain undecomposed at the exit of the apparatus , this hope was realised , the aqueous from the apparatus being found to blacken silver nitrate and to reduce neutral mercuric solution to mercurous chloride .
The amount of formic acid preserved was , of course , quite minute .
A similar result was obtained when the carbon monoxide and steam were passed over lime ; details of these experiments are given after the main series of ) erin ) ents with coppel and iron oxide catalysts have been described .
We have been chiefly concerned to examine the amount of the change at temperatures from 20 C. to 50 C. with both copper and iron oxide catalysts .
In order to sbandardise ftSfal .
as possible the time-factor in the attainment of equilibrium , we have selected a rate of flow of such that the maximum change was effected over the most active range of temperature ; 'Ber vol. 61 , p. 1526 1918 ) .
Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
we then arranged for the same rate of flow at the other temperatures and noted the amount of carbon monoxide converted to dioxide .
Two samples of gas were used in the course of the work : ( a ) per ce -gas\ldquo ; obtained from sodium formate and sulphuric acid ; this gas was operated at a rate of 12litres per hour .
( b ) 40 per cent. -gas\ldquo ; ordinaly water-gas , used at the rate of 25litres per hour .
In all cases a mixture of one volulne of the gas with approximately volumes of steam was passed over the catalyst , the water vapour being picked up by the gas during its passage through a vessel containing agitated water maintained at a temperature adjusted to give the desired saturation of the gas with steam .
The value of the alDotlnt of carbon monoxide which can be transformed is derived as follows:\mdash ; Let , as before , be the original concentration ( volumes ) of carbon monoxide , water , carbon dioxide , and .
Then , if a volume-concenof carbon monoxide interact with steam Hence the theoretical values of can be determined at each temperature for which is given and also the corresponding ratio amount of ( xmount of In the actual experiments , the change was followed by analyses of the and issuing gases other than water .
Let the concentrations of , CO and per unit in the original gas be respectively X , , and , and Jet of the original CO be changed .
After -condensation of the steam , the volume of the is now , and we have New concentration CO New concentration New ation H Gas-analysis furnished experimental values for the old and new perageS of CO , and H2 , the CO estimation being considered to be the most accurate of the three .
A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
Thus , from the measured new per cent. CO and experimental values were deduced for i.e. , a figure comparable with the theoretical above .
Further , an estimate of the accuracy of the analytical work was obtained by comparing the found and calculated new percentages of and New per cenb .
( calculated ) New per cent. I. 95 cent. Composition of gas : per cent. per cent. CO , per cent. The theoretical data for this gas are as follows:\mdash ; 1 vol. vols .
Experimental Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
The relations of to temperature , with the corresponding values for , are shown graphically in fig. 1 .
FIO .
1 .
II .
40 per cent. -Gas ( Water-Gas ) .
Average composition of gas : 5 per cent. , 40 per cent. , 47 per cent. Theoretical data : 1 vol. vols .
A Study of Actions at Solid A Study of Catalytic Action ' at Solid Copper is thus much less complete in its action than iron oxide at the higher temperatures ; but over the range C. it is definitely more active than iron oxide ; copper commences to act at a reasonable rate at about 22 C. , whereas iron oxide is barely active at 25 C. , is still slow at 30 C. and does not reach full activity until about 40 C. We have seen that copper decomposes formic acid from 19 C. ; on the other hand , the iron oxide process is dependent on the temperature ranges at which oxidation of carbon monoxide by iron oxide and decomposition of steam by iron or ferrous oxide occur at sufficiently rapid rates .
The oxidation of the monoxide by iron oxide proceeds at as low a temperature as 20 C. ; but the decomposition of iron by steam is not a rapid action below about 40 C. , hough this figure refers to massive iron and would no doubt be somewhat lower for the more active iron or ferrous oxide produced by the oxidation of carbon monoxide in presence of steam .
It is evident that the relative activities of ( a ) copper and ( b ) iron oxide to carbon monoxide and steam at the lower ranges of temperature are closely parallel to their respective powers of decomposing ( a ) formic acid and ( b ) steam .
The amount of action effected by the copper catalyst declines somewhat after 35 C. , and the maximum change effected appears to be greater the higher the proportion of carbon monoxide in the original gas .
It is not without interest that , although water is not decomposed per se by copper , we have observed signs on two occasions that water enters into an active association with this metal , thus : ( i ) The " " protective\ldquo ; action of water on aldehyde and the suppression of enation of aldehyde in presence of water when copper is used as catalyst was explained ( this series , Part II1 ) on the hypothesis that water entered into association or was adsorbed tially to aldehyde copper surface .
( ii ) In the present instance , we have a case in which water in association with copper actually takes part in a chemical action .
The following is a summary of the data obtained on } ) assing water-gas cent. cent. cent. with steam through a tube maintained at 35 C. in presence of or of lime:\mdash ; The Theory the Katharometer .
The aqueous condensates from Experiment 2 were made slightly acid with hydrochloric acid and boiled with a solution of mercuric chloride , when gram of mercurous chloride was formed , corresponding to of formic acid .
The Theory of the Katharometer .
By H. A. DAYNES , M.Sc .
, University of Birmingham .
( With an Introductory note by G. A. SHAKESPEAI ; .
) Communicated Prof. Smith , Received January [ Historical Note by G. A. Shakespeare , M.A. , D.Sc.\mdash ; In September , 1915 , at the request of a member of the Board of Invention and Research of the Admiralty , I undertook to devise an instrument capable of giving automatic indication of the presence of hydrogen in small quantities ( e.g. , 1 or 2 per cent. ) in air .
well-known surface-action of palladium and platinum wires suggested itself as a phenomenon obviously adapted to the purpose .
The wire was used as two arms of a Wheatstone bridge , one of these arms being protected from the gas by a thin glass tube , the other being exposed .
When a sufficiently great current of electricity Was passed through the bridge , the exposed arm rapidly increased in temperature owing to surface combustion .
The temperature , however , was liable to rise dangerously high if the hydrogen were present in suitable quantity , and , as safety from explosion was indispensable , this method was abandoned .
The same apparatus was then applied with a much lower current , and with the wires consequently at a much lower temperature , to make use of the increase in thermal conductivity of the gas due to the admixture of hydrogen .
This arrangement was found to be unexpectedly sensitive , and the method was adopted for the desired purpose .
As the iment was primarily intended to measure the purity of the air , the name " " katharometer\ldquo ; was given to it .
In its final form , the katharometer consisted of two small helices of thin VOL XCVII .

