11 .
" On the Chemical Changes occurring in Seeds during Germination .
" By the same .
The author infers , from his researches on the subject of his second paper , that during the process of germination there is a production of alcohol , and that oxygen unites with olefiant gas , under the influence of the radicle and piumula .
He accounts for the increase of temperature during germination by an alieged difference in the spe ?
cific heats of the principles before and after that process has com ?
menced ; but the methods he employed for establishing the reality of this difference are not detailed .
The following are the principal conclusions to which the author arrives : 1 .
Seeds may , by careful desiccation , be deprived of much water without injuring their vegetating organs .
2 .
Their capacity for absorbing water varies with the temperature at which they are kept .
3 .
The increase taking place in their volume by the absorption of water is influenced by temperature .
4 .
On steeping seeds in water at one temperature the vinous fer ?
mentation takes place , but at another this process does not occur .
5 .
A decomposition takes place in seeds previously to their germi ?
nation , and the products are carbonic acid and olefiant gas .
6 .
The abstraction of carbon from seeds by the oxygen of the at ?
mosphere is not , as is generally supposed , the specific action which gives rise to germination ; but it rather conduces to putrefaction .
7 .
The germination of seeds appears to be an action taking place between the olefiant gas , which has been previously formed by a vinous fermentation , and the oxygen of the atmosphere ; and is effected by the peculiar operation of the piumula and the rootlets .
8 .
This decomposition and combination of the different elements go on , in well-regulated processes , as long as there is any farinaceous matter to be decomposed : the food of the plant being at this time always the oxygen of the atmosphere , and the newly-formed olefiant gas , differing in equivalent combinations , according to the peculiar constitution of the plant ; and thus the foundation is laid for all that prodigious diversity which characterizes the numberless species of the vegetable creation .

