287 The Pharmacological Action of South African Boxwood ( Gonioma kamassi ) .
By W. E. Dixon .
( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received November 1 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1911 .
) ( From the Pharmacological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) The boxwood products with which the following experiments were performed were prepared from the wood of Gonioma kamassi exported from Knysna and belonging to the N.O. Apocynaceae .
The wood was carefully identified and sent in sealed parcel to Mr. E. F. Harrison , who extracted an alkaloid .
The certain identity of the wood is of some importance , as the preparations which were used in my experiments cannot be called into question and as there has been some confusion in the past between Gonioma kamassi ( South African box ) , Buxus macowani ( East London boxwood ) and Sarcocephalus diderrichii(West African boxwood ) .
The action of South African boxwood has assumed an economic importance in recent years , since it has on occasion and in limited amount been substituted for Persian and other boxwoods in the manufacture of shuttles in Lancashire , and it is alleged that symptoms of poisoning have arisen in a percentage of the workmen employed in sawing this wood or in finishing the chiselled shuttles .
The symptoms complained of seem to vary a good deal in different individuals , but respiratory trouble , sometimes of a nature simulating spasmodic asthma , headaches , cerebral depression , and nasal catarrh appear to be the most frequent .
Harvey Gibson* extracted from an African boxwood\#151 ; probably G. kamassi though the wood was not definitely identified\#151 ; 0'07 per cent , of an impure alkaloid ; with this he performed some perfusion experiments on the isolated mammalian heart ; from these he concludes that the alkaloid is a'cardiac poison .
However valuable experiments on isolated organs may be in conjunction with other experiments , taken alone they teach little .
The known action of a number of substances on isolated muscle or heart gives no indication of their relative toxicity to the normal intact animal .
And although it is easy enough to poison an isolated perfused heart with boxwood , as it is with almost any chemical substance , yet it is not possible to depress seriously the heart in an intact animal , since before the heart is even appreciably affectedl respiration * 'Biochemical Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 39 .
Mr. W. E. Dixon .
Pharmacological [ Nov. l ceases and death occurs from asphyxia .
Boxwood has no specific affinity for cardiac or other muscle .
The two samples of alkaloid I used , Mr. Harrison informs me , were prepared as follows:\#151 ; " A " was prepared by heating the sawdust with dilute hydrochloric acid , straining and pressing ; the acid liquid was then concentrated , filtered from the resinous matter which separated , and precipitated by potassium bismuth iodide solution ; the precipitate was decomposed by sodium hydroxide and the alkaloid extracted by alcohol ; the alcoholic solution was evaporated , the residue extracted with dilute hydrochloric acid , leaving resin undissolved , and the alkaloid liberated from the solution by ammonia and shaken out with chloroform ; the alkaloid was further freed from resin by repeating the treatment with acid , ammonia , and chloroform .
When finally converted into hydrochloride the solution deposited a little more resin on standing , which was filtered off .
" B " was prepared by percolating the sawdust with alcohol , evaporating the alcoholic liquid , and taking up the residue with dilute hydrochloric acid , leaving resin ; the acid solution was then precipitated with phospho-tungstic acid , the precipitate decomposed with sodium hydroxide and the alkaloid extracted by alcohol ; the subsequent treatment was the same as for " A. " The experiments were performed on cats , dogs , frogs , and rabbits , which , unless otherwise stated , were anaesthetised with A.C.E. mixture and later with urethane .
Effect on the Circulation.\#151 ; The injection of small doses of the alkaloid , from 10 to 20 milligrammes , into the circulation of the dog or cat causes a rapid and considerable fall of blood-pressure ; the pressure rises again slowly , but never to its former height .
Further injections produce less and less effect on blood-pressure until , after 40 or 50 milligrammes in the case of the cat , a point is reached when further injections are without decided influence ( fig. 1 ) .
A fall of blood-pressure of this nature is characteristic of the group of drugs which paralyse autonomic nerve cells , such as curare , apocodeine , coniine and the like , and should be entirely vaso-motor in origin .
That there is considerable vaso-dilatation of the splanchnic area can be readily shown either by the oncometer or the method of perfusion .
This may be inferred from the increased volume pulse of the intestinal vessels shown in fig. 4b .
In plethysmographic tracings it is clear that the fall of blood-pressure corresponds fairly accurately with the degree of dilatation .
Perfusion experiments in which oxygenated Binger 's solution is forced at constant pressure through the intestinal or limb vessels of a rabbit also show Action of South A frican Boxwood .
1910 .
] \#174 ; pi o t-1 I d 0 1 a QC P PS .
rH so o .S 1 +3 ri* !
g 'S go \#163 ; I \#174 ; o If 02 r-H PP J ^ o B ^ I 03 g \#163 ; 'I S si .
Jh \#171 ; 4H si ?
H .
r-( P O P cti S p p .
pH s \#163 ; rS .
rH r \lt ; \#171 ; -u 02 fe \#163 ; .
" 2 '4\#151 ; * O eg O \#163 ; 290 Mr. W. E. Dixon .
The Pharmacological [ Nov. 1 i the dilatation of vessels .
In these experiments the Ringer 's solution at body temperature was suddenly changed to one containing 0*01 per cent , of the alkaloid , when the outflow from the vein showed a decided increase .
It is clear , therefore , that one cause of the fall in blood-pressure is vaso-motor .
It has been suggested , however , by Harvey Gibson from observations on the isolated heart of the rabbit that boxwood is a profound cardiac poison .
His experiments on the isolated heart are easily verified ( fig. 2 ) , but of course such experiments do not show that , in any possible dosage to a normal Fig. 2.\#151 ; Record of Isolated Rabbit 's Heart perfused with Oxygenated Ringer 's Solution .
The top curve shows the effect of injecting 1 c.c. of a 0'04-per-cent , solution of the alkaloid ; the middle tracing shows the effect of injecting 5 c.c. of the same strength , and the bottom curve 10 c.c. of a 0'08-per-cent , solution .
Time , seconds .
Each injection was made in 5 seconds .
animal , the amount present in the blood would be sufficient to exert this influence on the action of the heart .
Indeed , the amount of boxwood which must be administered to an isolated heart in order to produce depression also very decidedly influences its nerve supply , to which later reference will be made ; hearts so treated will be found to have lost their reaction towards muscarine and pilocarpine , whilst towards adrenalin their reaction is much diminished .
In order to decide whether boxwood has any cardiac action of importance , several experiments were made on the intact heart of anaesthetised animals .
The results of these experiments showed in each Action of South African Boxwood .
1910 .
] case that the heart was not appreciably influenced , even when doses of boxwood were given sufficient in amount to paralyse completely the brain and medulla .
From experiments with the cardiometer ( fig. 3 ) it is obvious that the administration of the drug is followed by a period in which the output of blood from the heart per minute is actually greater than the normal , and in no case has a diminution in the output been observed .
It will be seen from this figure , which is quite typical , that it is the strength of the systole which is especially increased , and that the effect is prolonged .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Cat. Urethane .
Cardiometer and blood-pressure .
Shows the effect of injecting 10 milligrammes of alkaloid .
Note increased cardiac output and augmentation*of systole .
Time , seconds .
At first sight it might seem that these experiments with the isolated heart and with the cardiometer are contradictory , but such is not the case , since any drug which produces a pure vaso-dilatation causes secondary effects on the heart , which result in an augmented output of blood per minute ; thus nitrites depress the isolated heart , as indeed they do all muscle tissue , yet when taken by an intact animal the cardiac output is increased .
All the isolated heart experiments teach is that boxwood exerts no direct stimulant action on cardiac muscle .
Even when natural respiration has ceased in an animal as a direct result of boxwood poisoning , additional doses of the VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; B. z 292 Mr. W. E. Dixon .
T Pharmacological [ Nov. 1 alkaloid may still be given without causing any appreciable depression of the heart .
The effects described are the same in the frog , rabbit , cat , and dog , so that it can hardly be argued that direct cardiac failure is a serious feature in poisoning by boxwood .
Respiration.\#151 ; If records be taken of the respiratory movements , it will be found that the effect of boxwood is to cause at first a gradual increase in the depth of respiration without much alteration in the rate .
This effect can be seen quite well by giving a small injection , 8 or 10 milligrammes , to a normal cat and observing without the use of any recording apparatus .
Figs. 1 and 6 show the effect of the poison recorded graphically ; in each case the initial action of boxwood on respiration is some increase in depth , the volume of air inhaled at each breath is greater , whilst the rate remains about the same .
As more drug is administered this primary stimulant action is quickly followed by depression , as shown by the diminution in respiratory movements , and if the dose be sufficiently large , respiration is completely paralysed .
An effect of this nature is seen in fig. 1 , after the administration of 65 milligrammes of boxwood alkaloid into the circulation of a cat , and in fig. 6 after an injection of 30 milligrammes .
In all cases the respiration having once ceased never returned , so far as the length of the experiment , sometimes extending for three hours , allowed of observations being taken .
With an active circulation such a failure of respiration may be due either to central paralysis of the medulla or to peripheral motor paralysis .
If the motor nerves of respiration , the phrenics and intercostals , be excited with a tetanising current immediately natural respiration has ceased , they are found to cause contraction of their respective muscles , though the strength of contraction is considerably diminished from the normal ; still , no doubt , ample activity remains for some kind of respiratory movements to occur Were a powerful stimulus to proceed from the centre .
At this stage , for example , strychnine still induces violent muscular twitehings .
Electrical stimulation of the medulla , however , causes no respiratory movement , and the administration of hydrocyanic acid , a drug which powerfully excites the respiratory centre , is without effect .
At this stage it is also interesting to note that in the rabbit the cardiac vagus is still active , whilst in the cat it is generally completely paralysed .
Action on Nerve-cells\#151 ; Central Nervous System.\#151 ; The administration of moderate non-poisonous doses of the boxwood alkaloid to all normal animals causes increased activity of the reflexes .
The effect is one apparently upon the spinal cord , since in the frog it is still persistent after complete destruction of the brain .
In anaesthetised animals , the effect may also frequently be seen \#166 ; V 1910 .
] Action of South A frican Boxwood .
* 293 for a short period before the depression of the motor nerves is pronounced , thus it may be observed after the injection of 30 or 40 milligrammes of the alkaloid into cats ; sometimes , indeed , the reflexes may be so increased as to induce a series of convulsive jerks .
The tendency to such movements is naturally more pronounced after the administration of the drug to decerebrate rather than to anassthetised animals .
True tonic and clonic convulsions are never observed .
This action on the spinal cord is no doubt partly masked by the depressant action of the drug on the cerebrum and the motor nerve endings ; but these effects can be to some extent eliminated , at least for a time , by injecting the drug directly into one of the veins of the spinal cord , and in such cases typical strychnine-like convulsions occur .
Depression of the higher cerebral centres appears to occur simultaneously with the stage of exaggerated spinal reflexes .
Normal animals injected with this alkaloid may show all the effects of cerebral depression at a time when the spinal reflexes are much increased .
As in the case of curare , apocodeine and coniine , therefore , three effects can be analysed which to some extent mask one another : ( 1 ) depression of the cerebrum , ( 2 ) " stimulation " of the spinal cord , ( 3 ) paralysis of the motor nerve-endings .
By appropriate means each of these effects can be observed with all three drugs , but whereas with boxwood all three are produced nearly simultaneously with a certain dose of drug , with curare the motor nerve-endings are paralysed first , or about the same time as the central nervous system , and completely mask the convulsions , whilst with coniine and apocodeine the paralysis of the central nervous system is the marked feature , and the motor nerve-endings are only paralysed after the administration of very much larger doses of alkaloid .
Vagus.\#151 ; The injection of boxwood causes paralysis of the vagus in all mammals .
In the rabbit , complete paralysis is not attained until the respiration has ceased ; but in the cat , vagal paralysis precedes respiratory .
Thus in a cat of 2 kilos .
, electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve ceased to inhibit the heart after the administration of 30 milligrammes of the alkaloid .
Immediately paralysis is complete , muscarine , and in a less marked degree pilocarpine , still cause inhibition , although if a somewhat larger amount of the boxwood is given the paralysis is made as complete as by atropine , and muscarine is now quite without action on the cardiac rhythm .
The usually accepted explanation of phenomena of this description is that the nerve-cells are paralysed a little before the nerve-endings , and the boxwood paralyses the nerve-cells whilst the post-ganglionic fibres are for a time still intact , as shown by their response to muscarine .
Sympathetic Nerves\#151 ; ( a ) Eye.\#151 ; Quite small doses of the boxwood alkaloid , z 2 294 Mr. W. E. Dixon .
T Pharmacological [ Nov. 1 such as 20 milligrammes , injected into the circulation of the rabbit or eat , paralyse the sympathetic ganglion cells of the eye before the respiration has been appreciably affected .
Thus , in one experiment on a small- cat , it was found that well-marked dilatation of the pupil and opening of the eyelid resulted from stimulation of the sympathetic nerve with the secondary coil at 12 cm .
A slow injection of 20 milligrammes of the alkaloid as a 0-5-per-cent .
solution was made into the jugular vein and this caused paralysis , so that , a few minutes later , stimulation of the sympathetic , with the secondary coil at 5 cm .
, failed to elicit a response in the eye .
Post-ganglionic stimulation , however , produced a typical effect with the coil at 12 cm .
( b ) Splanchnic.\#151 ; Boxwood paralyses the ganglion cells in the course of the splanchnic nerve , in the same way as it paralyses the cells in the course of the sympathetic nerve to the head .
The injection of from 30 to 50 milligrammes of boxwood alkaloid into the circulation of a cat blocks the conduction of impulses through the splanchnic nerve , so that its electrical excitation is without influence on the blood vessels .
Stimulation of the postganglionic fibres still causes typical constriction of the splanchnic vessels , with a resulting rise in systemic blood-pressure ( fig. 4 ) .
When still larger doses of the alkaloid are injected , a further stage is reached in which even excitation of post-ganglionic fibres is without effect .
These facts may be interpreted as meaning that the ganglion cells are first poisoned , and later some portion of the peripheral nervous mechanism ; for it is certain that , even after the most complete paralysis , the muscle fibres of the vessels still respond to muscle poisons , such as lead , barium , veratrine , squill , and the like .
Effect on Motor Nerve-endings.\#151 ; Large doses of boxwood paralyse the motor nerves in a manner similar to curare ; in the case of the cat 80 milligrammes injected intravenously are generally sufficient to cause complete paralysis to electrical stimulation , and smaller amounts effect the same result in the rabbit .
The frog is peculiarly resistant and relatively large doses are required to induce this paralysis ; in this animal the central nervous system is paralysed easily enough , but the effect on the motor nerves is delayed .
Strychnine in any dosage administered to animals in which the motor nerves have been paralysed has , of course , no effect on the muscles , nor can the spasmodic twitchings characteristic of physostigmine poisoning be obtained in such animals .
The muscles , however , are intact and respond readily to all ordinary stimuli .
Effect of Certain Drugs .
Nicotine.\#151 ; Evidence has been given already to show that boxwood acts upon the same structures as nicotine , so that were nicotine injected into an animal already under the influence of boxwood it should produce none of its characteristic stimulant effects .
Injections of mo .
] Action of South African Boxwood .
4a .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Cat. Weight 1400 grammes .
B.P. , Intestinal Volume and Respiration .
A shows the effect of splanchnic excitation with the secondary coil at 15 cm .
Tracing B shows the B.P. and intestinal volume 15 minutes later , after the injection of 45 milligrammes of alkaloid .
Splanchnic excitation with the coil pushed home is now without effect .
Note the increased volume pulse in B as evidence of vaso-dilatation of splanchnic vessels .
Time , half-minutes .
nicotine are without appreciable effect when injected under these conditions ( fig. 5 ) .
Adrenalin , on the contrary , retains its action , feebler than usual it is true , but still characteristic .
But very large doses of boxwood can eliminate even the adrenalin effect on the vessels and heart .
Pituitary extract also retains its pressor action , as well as the true muscle poisons , lead , barium , and digitalis .
Some Apparent Stimulation Effects.\#151 ; Boxwood has now been shown to have a depressant effect on most nerve tissues , but one of the effects of small doses is to increase the movements of plain muscle in the body .
This is easily shown in the case of the alimentary canal or uterus by the intravenous injection of small doses .
Thus fig. 6 is the record of an experiment 296 Mr. W. E. Dixon .
The Pharmacological [ Nov. 11 Fig. 5.\#151 ; Cat. A.C.E. Blood-pressure Curve after the Administration of 55 milligrammes of Alkaloid .
At A 1 c , c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of nicotine was injected , and at B 1 c.c. of a l-in-4000 solution of natural adrenaline .
At C the splanchnic nerve was excited by a strong tetanising current .
Time , seconds .
Fig. 6 , \#151 ; Cat. A.C.E. Respiration .
Intestinal Movements recorded by a Balloon .
B.P. 10 milligrammes of alkaloid injected at each of the indicated marks .
The bowel was paralysed after the third injection , though the muscle still responded to mechanical stimulation and muscle poisons .
Time , seconds .
in which the pendulum movements of the intestine are recorded ; each injection of boxwood is followed by active peristaltic movements until after 40 milligrammes have been given , when the intestine is paralysed and Action of South African .
1910 .
] farther injections are without effect ; at this stage muscarine and pilocarpine , which normally evoke violent peristaltic movements usually regarded as vagal stimulation , fail to have an action , though the muscle still contracts to mechanical stimulation or to lead .
It has been pointed out that there is no evidence that boxwood excites directly any form of muscle ; indeed , its action appears to he depressant , since if it is painted directly upon striped or plain muscle it tends to diminish contraction .
It must then produce this increased peristalsis through the nervous system , and since augmentation of intestinal movements can be obtained on the isolated and perfused intestines it follows that it is due to some action on the peripheral nervous mechanism .
Perhaps the facts are best explained by supposing that in small doses it paralyses the inhibitory fibres or cells a little before the motor .
Some such explanation was offered in a previous paper* to account for the purgative action of apocodeine .
It may be mentioned in support of this hypothesis that these effects are only marked when the drug is injected in fairly large quantities .
When it is taken by the mouth the effects on the alimentary canal ( purgation ) are not apparent , in which respect also it resembles the opium alkaloids .
Other forms of plain muscle are also excited , and fig. 7 shows the effect on the uterus .
Effect on Intact Animals.\#151 ; The effect of boxwood in small doses is much the same in all animals .
Progs exhibit first an exaggeration of reflexes followed by paralysis and cessation of respiration .
If the animal at this stage be pithed the motor nerves are still active , and the heart is vigorous .
An injection of 1 c.c. intravenously into a rabbit of 2 kilogrammes causes in about five minutes a well marked exaggeration of all reflexes .
This is quickly followed by decided muscular weakness and rapid respiration .
The weakness is shown by the squat attitude adopted by the animal , its hind limbs being thrust forward , and also by the difficulty it has in flexing the hind limbs and by the tremors .
Later it loses the power of drawing up its hind limbs , and they lie extended and limp .
The pupils are not altered .
A quarter of an hour after injection recovery has commenced and in an hour the animal appears normal .
The cat shows similar symptoms\#151 ; exaggerated reflexes , .great muscular weakness and respiratory trouble .
The alkaloid is quite non-irritant to the eye or skin , and the nasal catarrh reported to occur in poisoning of the workers in the wood may be due either to some nervous systemic effect of the alkaloid , since animals after dosing occasionally exhibit watering from the eyes , or may be the result of some other constituent of the wood or due to the physical nature of the dust .
* Dixon , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1903 , vol. 30 , p. 97 .
Mr. , W. E. Dixon .
The Pharmacological [ Nov. l Fig. 7.\#151 ; Cat. Uterine Movements .
B.P. Shows increased tonus and automatic movements caused by intravenous injection of 3 c.c. of the alkaloidal solution ( 15 milligrammes ) .
Time , seconds .
Discussion.\#151 ; This alkaloid clearly belongs to the curare group of drugs , a group which is characterised by it3 members possessing three properties in common : ( 1 ) They excite the spinal cord , increase reflexes , and sometimes cause strychnine-like convulsions .
( 2 ) They paralyse nerve-cells throughout the body .
( 3 ) They paralyse motor nerve-endings .
In the case of curare the paralysis of the motor nerves overshadows its other properties , but with boxwood all the three effects are perfectly typical and are readily obtained , since they follow in the sequence given .
Boxwood differs from nicotine and coniine in that there is no initial stimulant action on nerve-cells and that the motor nerve-endings are much more readily paralysed .
Death from boxwood is brought about by respiratory failure , mainly central in origin , but at a time when the motor nerves are depressed and on the way to paralysis , and when the blood-pressure is low , not from cardiac depression , for the heart at this time is putting out more blood per minute than normally , but from great vaso-dilatation in the splanchnic area .
The importance of tihis alkaloid lies in the fact that it is alleged to cause poisoning in a percentage of the workers in the wood .
Now the symptoms observed in man and put down to the action of the wood are in some respects similar to those which are found after the absorption of the drug in animals .
Action of South African Boxwood .
1910 .
] The sleepiness , weakness , and difficulty in / respiration occur in man not constantly but only occasionally ; were these symptoms constant in all cases of poisoning it would be necessary to associate them with the specific action of boxwood , but as they occur only occasionally it is more difficult to associate the action of the boxwood alkaloid after absorption with them .
Moreover , by far the most important and characteristic early effect of poisoning by boxwood is the increase in reflexes ; these , so far as I am aware , have never been recorded in man .
The fact that some practitioners have surmised that the symptoms may be due to cardiac failure is of little significance , since no reliable records on the activity of the heart are available , and of course to attempt to gauge the activity or output of the heart by feeling a peripheral artery or by auscultation of the chest is courting disaster .
Supposing the wood to contain 006 or 0-07 per cent , of alkaloid , and it being known that 8 milligrammes is sufficient to cause decided specific effects in the cat , an amount corresponding to 10 grammes of the wood , then on this basis a man should require to absorb the alkaloid from 800 grammes of wood to effect poisoning .
It must be remembered , however , that whilst the amount of an alkaloid necessary to affect the heart varies in different mammals very accurately with the body weight , the same is not true for the central nervous system .
For example , cocaine , a drug acting on the brain and causing convulsions , must be given to animals ( frogs , rabbits , dogs , monkeys , etc. ) in doses almost exactly inversely to their body weight in proportion to the relative weights of their brain substances .
So that , as boxwood essentially affects the brain , it would be more accurate to compare the weight of the cat 's brain with that of man in respect to their relative body weights , and then the larger the brain in proportion to body weight the less drug should be required to cause an effect .
But even such an estimation would require some 200 grammes of the wood to be absorbed before symptoms of poisoning could occur .
Now it will be readily admitted that the absorption of the alkaloid from such an amount of wood by workmen engaged in the operation of polishing or sawing is impracticable .
Furthermore it is not possible to absorb water-soluble alkaloid from the skin in this way , and absorption is only effected with difficulty when the alkaloid is rubbed into the skin with a suitable fatty basis which will penetrate through the sebaceous and sweat glands .
So that absorption when it occurs must take place through the nasobuccal mucous membrane , and it is difficult to conceive that more alkaloid than that which could be obtained from a gramme of wood at the outside could be absorbed in this fashion .
The alkaloid from three times this amount of wood taken by the mouth on more than one occasion was quite without effect on a healthy 300 The Pharmacological Action of South African Boxwood .
man .
It follows then that if it can be clearly shown clinically that poisoning definitely follows the use of boxwood in the case of certain men , and from Dr. Hay's* report this cannot be doubted , then these must possess a very extraordinary and marked idiosyncracy .
It is well known that some neurotic people , and by these I mean a class in whom a certain type of afferent stimulation produces an excessive efferent effect , are peculiarly susceptible to nerve poisons and to certain stimuli ; as an illustration it is only necessary to refer to spasmodic contraction of the bronchioles from nasal irritation and to hay fever from pollen .
Boxwood may claim its victims in the same way ; it may be absorbed from the nasal mucous membrane and produce exaggerated local effects , increasing nasal reflexes , causing asthmatic conditions and catarrh , and the other symptoms noted .
That it is possible for a drug absorbed locally to act locally we know , since strychnine injected into one temple of a man increases the field of vision on the eye of that side , and is almost without effect on the opposite eye .
Some such explanation in many of the recorded cases of poisoning is the only one which I can offer as being in agreement with the facts , and it is supported by the records that only a small percentage of men working the wood have been affected , and that the commonest symptoms are those which most usually arise reflexly\#151 ; headache , irritation of the eyes , nasal catarrh , and respiratory trouble , possibly asthmatic .
So that although boxwood is a poison belonging to the curare group it is probably not to the general specific effects of the alkaloid after absorption that the majority of the recorded cases of poisoning must be credited .
* Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1908 , p. 266 .

