XIII .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
IX .
Phospharsonium Compounds .
By A. W. IIOFAIANN , LL. ID .
, F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
The facility with which the bromide of bromethyl-triethylphosphonium furnishes , when submitted to the action of ammonia and monamines , the extensive and well-defined group of phosphammonium-compounds , induced me to try whether similar diatomic bases containing phosphorus and arsenic might be formed by the mutual reaction between the bromethylated bromide and monarsines .
There was no necessity for entering into a detailed examination of this class of compounds .
I have , in fact , been satisfied to establish by a few characteristic numbers the existence of the phospharsonium-group .
Action of Taiethylaine on Bromide of Bromethyl-triethylphosphonium .
On digesting the two substances in sealed tubes at 100 ?
, the usual phenomenia are observed ; the reactionl being complete after the lapse of twenity-four hours .
The saline mass which is formed yields with oxide of silver in the cold , a powerfully alkaline solution , containing the hydrated oxide of ethylene-hexethylphospharsouiium , ( ) I-I P AsO = [ ( C2 14)1(C2 J ) P As ] " 1 014 135 PAO 2 2 .
It is thus obvious that the arseniic-base imitates triethylphosphine in its deportment with the brominated bromide .
The two substances simply combine to form the dibromide , of the phospharsonium , [ ( C2 114 Br ) ( C2 H5)3 P ] Br+ ( 02H1D)S As= [ ( C2 HI ) " ( CH H 5 ) A ] Br2 ( C2H15)3 As The alkaline solution of the oxide of the phospharsonium exhibits the leading characters of this class of bases ; I may therefore refer to the account which I have given of the oxide of diphosphonium .
The saline compounds likewise resemble those of the diphosphonium .
The dichloride and the di-iodide were obtained in beautiful crystalline needles , exhibiting a marked tendency to form splendidly crystallized double compounds .
I have prepared the compounds of the dichloride with chloride of tin , bromide of zinic , trichloride of gold , and lastly with dichloride of platinium .
The latter compound was alnalysed in order to fix the compositioni of the series .
Platinum-salt.-The product of the reaction of triethylarsine uponl the bromethylated bromide was treated with oxide of silver in the cold , and the alkaline solution thus obtained , saturated with hydrochloric acid and precipitated with dichloride of platinum .
An exceedingly pale-yellow , apparently amorphous precipitate of diphosphonic appearance was thrown down , almost insoluble in water , but dissolving in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid .
The hydrochloric solution deposited , on cooling , beautiful oralnge-red crystals , resembling those of the diphosphonium-platinum-salt .
The crystals , according to the measurement of Quintino Sella , belong to the trimetric system .
The analysis of the platinum-salt led to the formula C14 135 P As Pt2 C16 [ ( C2.4 ) ci A2 Pt CH)2P L(C2 115)3 AsJC,2Ptl .
The phospharsonium-compounds , and more especially the hydrated oxide of the series , are far less stable than the corresponding terms of the diphosphoniumand even of the phosphammonium-series .
If the product of the action of triethylarsine upon the brominated bromide be boiled with oxide of silver instead of being treated in the cold , not a trace of the phospharsonium-comnpound is obtained .
The caustic solution which is formed , wheil saturated with hydrochloric acid and precipitated with dichloride of platinum , furnishes only the rather soluble octahedral crystals of the oxethylated triethylphosphonium-platinutm-salt * .
The inature of this transformation is clearly exhibited when a solution of the dioxide of phospharsonium is submitted to ebullition .
Immediately the clear solution is rendered turbid from separated triethylarsine , which becomes perceptible , moreover , by its powerful odour , the liquid then containing the oxide of the oxethylated triethylphosphornium , H 02= ( C215)3As + [ ( 1 )( 25)3 P }0

