" On the first changes in the Ova of the Mammifera , in consequence of Impregnation ; and of the mode of origin of the Chorion .
" By Thomas VVharton Jones , Esq. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. The author having , in a former paper , described the structure of the unimpregnated ovum of mammiferous animals , now proceeds to investigate the changes which the ovum undergoes in consequence of impregnation .
In the rabbit , the first perceptible difference is the addition of a thick gelatinous matter surrounding the parts of which the ovum was composed in its original state , and apparently derived from the ovaries .
In the progress of development the vitellary membrane gives way , as happens in the ova of the newt , and of many of the oviparous animals .
The gelatinous envelope acquired in the ovary , and which is more especially circumscribed and defined after impregnation , constitutes the only covering of the vascular blastoderma , after the giving way of the vitellary membrane , and afterwards forms the chorion , which in rodent animals , at a further stage of development , presents itself under the form of a thin and transparent membrane , very similar to the vitellary membrane of a bird 's egg , and situated immediately outside the non-vascular and reflected layer of the umbilical or erythroid vesicle .
The author draws similar conclusions with regard to the developement of the human ovum .
The second part of the paper relates to the changes taking place in thevitellus , the inferences concerning which are deduced chiefly from observations of the developement of the ova of batrachian reptiles .
The author concludes that the disappearance of the germinal vesicle is prior to impregnation .
In the newt , the vesicle , at first imbedded in the substance of the yelk , gradually approaches the surface , until its situation is immediately underneath the vitellary membrane : its coat , having now become very soft , gives way , allowing the contained fluid to be effused on the surrounding surface of the yelk ; and the small depression in which the vesicle was lodged now forms the cicatricula .
The effused fluid gives a degree of con ?
sistence to the matter composing the surface of the yelk , and thus promotes the formation of the blastoderma .
In the frog , the surface of the yelk becomes every day more and more broken up , and the resulting crystalline forms described by Prevost and Dumas become smaller and smaller , until the surface of the black blasto ?
derma appears under a magnifying glass like chagrin .
The bla ?
stoderma , consisting of an aggregation of clear globules , different from those of the rest of the yelk , is now fully formed , and has ex ?
tended itself so as to close in the white spot .
The change which takes place in the yelk of the bird 's egg appears to be limited to the ncighbourhood of the cicatricula .

