18 The Charges on Ions produced by Radium .
By C. E. Haselfoot , M.A. , Hertford College , Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. J. S. Townsend , F.R.S. Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read November 12 , 1908 .
) In a paper* on " The Charges on Positive and Negative Ions in Oases , " Prof. Townsend has described a method for the direct determination of the quantity No , where N is the number of molecules in a cubic centimetre of a gas at standard pressure and temperature and e the charge on an ion .
His experiments were carried out on ions produced by the action of secondary Rontgen rays , and he showed that for negative ions the method led with great accuracy to the value 1'23 x 1010 for No , the same as that for NO , where E is the charge on a monovalent ion in a liquid electrolyte .
For positive ions the value obtained in the first set of experiments was 2*4 x 1010 , but subsequently with less penetrating secondary rays it was found to be as low as 1*26 x 1010 .
It would therefore appear that the positive ions have in some cases a single and in others a double atomic charge , whereas the charge on the negative ions is always the same .
With a view of testing the theory for ions produced by radium , experiments have been made with an apparatus precisely similar to that used by Prof. Townsend , and the results obtained confirm the reliability of the method .
After making due allowance for experimental and other known sources of error the positive ion appears to behave at all pressures and under all forces in accordance with the theory , but in the case of the negative ion some considerable deviations were observed , if the gas is very dry , but these disappear as soon as some water vapour is added .
The method consists essentially in the production of ions in a field A , from which those of one sign are passed into a field B through a hole of definite size .
Here they diffuse and the charge received by a disc placed immediately below and of the same size as the hole is compared with the total charge received by the disc and a ring which surrounds it .
From the observed value of this ratio the quantity No is deduced .
Some modifications of the apparatus used for Rontgen rays were necessary , in order to deal with the ions produced by radium .
In these experiments the ions are generated in the space A by radium placed in shallow horizontal grooves / , covered with thin aluminium foil , in brass blocks F , standing on the ring E. The space B is bounded by a series of brass rings G , kept at * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 8 ] , 1908 , p. 464 .
The Charges on Ions produced hy Radium .
definite potentials in order to maintain the constancy of the held .
C is a plate whose potential determines the held A. The ions generated in A pass through the grating g and then through the hole h. They diffuse , and the ratio of the charges received by the disc D and the ring R is measured .
c Field A Field d G G G G G G G R D R Fig. 1 .
In conducting the experiments it is necessary to allow for the ions which are generated in the held B and also for the self-repulsion of the stream coming through the hole .
The charge acquired by the disc and ring due to ions produced in the held B is easily found by observing these charges when the held A is reversed .
Subtracting them from the charges received when the held A is the same as the held B , we obtain the charges due to ions coming through the aperture .
The special difficulty , however , is to avoid the large effects due to the emanation and to the induced radio-activity in the held B. These become larger the longer the apparatus is left undisturbed , and in one experiment , made about two months after the apparatus was set up were found to be more than twice the effect due to the held A. They were due to the emanation escaping through and round the aluminium foil , which was kept thin in order to obtain measurable effects , and the movements of this gas would probably account for the considerable irregularities observed during preliminary experiments .
Now it has been shown by Mine .
Curie that the activity induced on surfaces is greatest for the lower portions of the vessel containing the emanation , so that it was considered advisable to invert the apparatus ( in the original form of which , shown in the figure , A was the upper field ) , and thus cause the more radio-active surfaces to be in the lower space A. A means was also provided of drawing a current of air through the apparatus from B to A , and it was then found that the number of ions produced in the space B could be made small , thereby diminishing this correction .
The other correction is for self-repulsion .
It can be shown that this effect varies inversely as the square of the electrical force Z in the field B , and approximately directly as the square of the pressure .
It can thus be reduced at will by diminishing the pressure and increasing the force , but a Mr. C. E. Haselfoot .
[ Nov. 3 , diminution of pressure , beyond a certain point , decreases too seriously the charge to be measured , whereas an increase of force concentrates such a large proportion of ions on the disc that the effect of the clearance between the disc and the ring may become comparatively large , and , further , any percentage error in the determination of the ratio leads to a far larger percentage error in the value of Nc .
This will be clear from an inspection of the graph given in fig. 2 .
O 2040 60 80 100 120 140 160 l80 200 Fig. 2 .
The method of deducing Ne from the observed value of R has been explained in the paper already referred to .
The connection between these quantities is best shown by means of a curve , and the graph in fig. 2 gives R in terms of ( Ne .
Z)/ P , where Z is the electric force , and P atmospheric pressure .
The curve corresponds to the case in which the aperture is 7 cm .
from the disc , and the diameter of the aperture 1*5 cm .
When N. is 1*23 x 1010 and Z 1 volt per centimetre ( Ne .
Z)/ P is approximately 40 .
Observations were made at pressures of 4*5 , 9 , and 14*5 mm. with forces of 1 , 2 , and 4 volts per centimetre both for positive and negative ions .
Rejecting those subject to various sources of error , the following results remain:\#151 ; For positive ions , three at 2 volts per centimetre giving Ne = P26 x 1010 , and five at 4 volts per centimetre giving Ne = 1*37 X 1010 ; for negative ions , three at 2 volts per centimetre giving Ne = 1'24 x 1010 .
The observations at 1 volt per centimetre are almost all subject to too large a correction for self-repulsion , rising in some cases to 20 per cent. , to make them reliable .
Those for 4 volts per centimetre are subject to greater experi1908 .
] The Charges on Ions produced by Radium .
21 mental errors than those at 2 volts per centimetre , and this may possibly account for the large value of No deduced in the case of positive ions from observations at this force .
The most accurate results can be obtained at pressures of from 4 to 6 mm. and forces of 1*5 to 2 volts per centimetre .
Further experiments are to be made under these conditions with air and other gases , and it is hoped by reducing the ionisation in the field B to obtain more accurate results .
As in the case of ions produced by Rontgen rays , it was found that the negative ions produced by radium did not obey the simple laws of diffusion when the air is very dry .
This appears from the fact that the ratio R does not vary with the force Z as given by the theory , and that it depends on the pressure .
As the drying proceeds , the departure of R from the value given by the curve ( assuming No = 1*23 x 1010 ) is most marked with large values of Z and small pressures .
Thus the mean of six observations at the force of 4 volts per centimetre , all giving very low values , is 0'584 ( instead of 0,682)\gt ; With a lower force this departure from theory occurs less frequently , and then as a rule at low pressures .
With a force of 1 volt per centimetre , and pressures varying from 8 to 2*5 mm. , the numbers found on one day varied from 0'390 to 0329 ; the theory gives 0429 .
For a force of 2 volts per centimetre and a pressure of 2*5 mm. the number obtained was 0311 , that given by the theory being 0572 .
These experiments were then repeated after admitting moisture , and the values of the ratio obtained agreed with the theory within the limits of experimental error .
A point of some interest is the fact that it was found easier to experiment with negative than with positive ions .
This is probably due to the action of the emanation .
By placing the field B , in which the diffusion takes place , at the top of the apparatus , the radio-activity caused by the emanation is confined as far as possible to the lower field A , and it is then found in the case of negative ions that the charge due to the ionisation occurring in field B seldom exceeds one-third of that coming from field A. With positive ions , however , it is frequently as large as one-half .
In a strong electric field the excited radio-activity is confined entirely to the negative electrode , and Rutherford has found that this is the case down to a pressure of 10 mm. When the disc D and ring R are receiving negative ions the force would tend to keep the emanation in the lower field , but for positive ions , when the disc and the ring round it form the negative electrode , the electric force tends to bring the emanation into the field B. The correction for the ionisation in the field B is therefore large and subject to variations in the experiments with positive ions , and also from the same cause difficulties arise in making an accurate estimate of the effect of self-repulsion .
22 Mr. T. Royds .
A Comparison of the Radium [ Nov. 26 , So far the results are in satisfactory agreement with those obtained by Prof. Townsend , with Rontgen rays , and it is hoped to make further experiments and to see if it is possible to obtain positive ions with double the atomic charge by means of radium rays .
Possibly the molecules of a gas are ionised in different ways by the a , ,6 , and \lt ; y types of radiation , and it is not quite certain which kind of radiation had the predominating effect in the production of the ions in these experiments , though probably the greater numbers were due to the a-rays .
I am greatly indebted to Prof. Townsend for most valuable advice and assistance throughout .
A Comparison of the Radium Emanation Spectra obtained by different Observers .
By T. Boyds , M.Sc .
, 1851 Exhibition Scholar .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Kutherford , F.R.S. Received November 26 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) In 1904 Sir William Ramsay and Prof. Collie* gave a list of lines produced by the discharge in a vacuum tube containing radium emanation , but the uncertainty of these numbers made a redetermination desirable .
A later determination by Mr. Cameron and Prof. Ramsayf was communicated to the Royal Society on June 25 , 1908 , and was published on August 27 , together with corrections , and a final compilation of verified emanation lines added on August 5 .
After Prof. Rutherford had completed the measurements of the volume of the radium emanation , he and the writer were able to photograph the spectrum that had been observed in the course of this work , and we published in ' Nature , ' July 9 , 1908 , the wave-lengths of the stronger lines observed by us in the emanation spectrum , and a more complete list , containing 73 lines , with an accuracy of 0'5 A.U. , was given in the c Philosophical Magazine ' of August , 1908 .
Measurements which I have recently made to within OT A.U. by means of a concave grating confirm the accuracy of our previous determinations .
The complete purification of the radium emanation demands a lengthy and painstaking procedure , and is a matter of considerable difficulty , for the volume of pure emanation available in our experiments would occupy at * ' Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 73 , p. 470 , 1904 .
t ' Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 81 , p. 210 , 1908 .

