589 The Experimental Treatment of Trypanosomiasis Animals .
By H. Wolferstan Thomas , M.D. , C.M. ( McGill ) , ( J. H. Todd Memorial Fellow in Tropical Medicine ) , Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine , Johnston Tropical Laboratory , University , Liverpool .
( Communicated by Professor R. Boyce , F.R.S. Received April 8 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Numerous drugs have been tried in endeavouring to find a therapeutical agent which would cause trypanosomes to disappear from the blood .
Of all those tried , arsenic and trypan red are the only ones exhibiting a marked influence on the parasites .
On account of the liability of the appearance of toxic symptoms , the proneness to sloughing at the site of inoculation , and the oftentimes considerable disturbance which occurred after the subcutaneous administration of sodium arseniate , I decided to try if other compounds would be more satisfactory in the treatment of trypanosomiasis .
The arsenic preparation which has given the best results is a compound of arsenic and aniline C6H5No2As ( meta-arsensaure anilid , atoxyl ) , a preparation which has of recent years been used intravenously and subcutaneously in the treatment of skin diseases and anaemia .
The effect of this preparation in the treatment of trypanosomiasis has been observed in an extensive series of experiments during the last 10 months .
Strains used .
T. gambiense.\#151 ; Five strains .
A very virulent one obtained from one of my cases of Sleeping Sickness\#151 ; this strain exhibited nothing abnormal in its direct passage through a monkey , but after infecting a baboon ( babuin ) , and then passing into a rabbit , it became abnormally virulent .
T. evansi.\#151 ; Surra .
T. equinum.\#151 ; My de Caderas .
T. brucei.\#151 ; Nagana .
T. equiperdum.\#151 ; Dourine .
T. dimorphon.\#151 ; Gambian horse .
No animal was treated until a large number of parasites were observed in the blood and definite signs of anaemia and loss of weight determined .
Many of the animals were not treated until several months after infection had occurred .
Four methods of treatment were adopted\#151 ; ( a)Atoxyl\#151 ; high doses at intervals of a week .
( b ) Atoxyl\#151 ; high initial dose and then reduced amounts administered three times a week .
590 Dr. H. W. Thomas .
Experimental [ Apr. 8 , ( c ) Atoxyl and trypan red combined .
The arsenic preparation given first and then followed in 36 to 72 hours with high doses of the dye subcutaneously .
( d)Trypan red alone .
All of these methods of treatment were continued over a period of several weeks to three months , or until a decided improvement in the general condition of the animal was noticed , especially increase of weight , rise in haemoglobin and number of erythrocytes , with absence from the blood of the parasite .
In nearly all cases controls were used .
In every case the treated animals have survived their controls .
From time to time blood was taken from the treated animals and susceptible animals were inoculated .
After a varying length of time treatment was discontinued , and some of these animals , after a period of one to three months without treatment , were bled to death , and the whole blood injected into healthy animals .
Such control animals have remained uninfected .
Results .
Treatments A and B. T. gambiense.\#151 ; Rabbits , guinea-pigs , and rats after one and a-half to three months ' treatment have survived .
Treatment discontinued four to five months ago .
T. exansi.\#151 ; One rabbit , two guinea-pigs are alive three months after stopping treatment .
It is now seven months since the guinea-pigs were infected .
T. brucei.\#151 ; Four guinea-pigs , three months after treatment , were bled , and rats inoculated with whole heart blood have remained uninfected during one and a-quarter months .
Rabbit two months treated , one month later still well .
Twenty rats have survived four months .
One rat infected on fifth day of disease when parasites were present , 150 or more to a field , living , and blood negative 84 days later .
T. equinum.\#151 ; One rabbit , treatment begun only when characteristic discharge from eyes , nose , etc. , appeared\#151 ; treatment for two months\#151 ; -discontinued one month , animal apparently well .
Two guinea-pigs have survived three months without treatment .
Rats , so far , 101 days .
T. equijperdum.\#151 ; Pups , one has died from over dose , other negative and general condition better .
T. dimorphon.\#151 ; Results not so good .
Animals have lived a far longer time than controls , but no apparent cure can be recorded .
1905 .
] Treatment of Trypanosomiasis in Animals .
591 Treatment C. With this method animals require treatment for a shorter period , but many have died from toxic effects of the dye ; this is especially the case with dogs , pups , and kittens .
T. dimorphon.\#151 ; Eesults of combined treatment far more favourable .
Experiments in progress .
Trypan red alone .
Eesults with T. equinum , rats have lived 197 days .
Effects on animals infected with T. T. T. , T. dimorphon , T. eqniperdum , are in accordance with Laveran 's experiments .
No definite curative powers remarked .
Experiments with the sodium arseniate treatment of animals infected with the various trypanosomes have given less favourable results .
Greater tendency is noted for toxic symptoms and sloughing to occur .
High doses cannot be tolerated for a prolonged period .
my hands the arsenic-aniline compound has given far better results than treatment with sodium arseniate .
The advantages of its administration intravenously or subcutaneously in high doses over a length of time , namely , its less toxic properties , the absence of all tendency to cause sloughing , and the apparently longer action of the make me believe that the employment of this compound is indicated in the treatment of human trypanosomiasis .
The combination with trypan red is worth trying in small doses per os , but the appearance of any indication of nephritis or other toxic symptoms should cause the treatment to be immediately stopped .
I have administered in pill-form six to eight grains three times a week for a period of three and a-half weeks without any untoward symptoms .
The case was a native suffering from trypanosomiasis ; the parasites lessened in number , and by the end of the third week were hardly ever seen .
Ehrlich and Shiga found that they could protect animals if trypan red was administered ( either subcutaneously or per os ) .
After live to seven days such animals could be injected with virulent blood containing trypanosomes without infection occurring .
I have injected a goat with increasing doses of trypan red , and , after a time , used its serum .
Mice infected with the My de Caderas parasite were injected with small quantities of this serum .
In four cases the animals lived 31 to 48 days .
Experiments in progress .

