Extract of a Letter from the Reverend Henry Miles , D. D. &amp; F. R. S. to the President , relating to some Improvements which may be made in Cider and Perry .
THE Design of communicating the following Paper to the Royal Society is , to invite Gentlemen , after the Example of a Practice that has long obtained in Herefordshire , to attempt an Improvement of their waste Lands , by planting such kind of Fruit trees , as are mentioned , in Hedges and barren Places ; which , for aught appears , would thrive as well in other Counties , perhaps in some Parts of most Counties in England , as in that of Hereford .
The Letter read Nov. 1745 .
Extract from a Manuscript , written Anno 1657-8 , by Mr. afterwards , Dr. John Beale , &amp; F. R. S. in the Way of an epistolary Address to S. Hartlib , Esq ; for his Use and that of Mr. Pell , the then British Resident at Zurich ; and which appears to have been intended as a Sequel to that scarce and valuable Piece entitled Herefordshire Orchards , inserted in the later Editions of Mr. Bradley 's New Improvement of Planting , &amp;c. Concerning an excellent Liquor made of a Mixture of rough Pears and Crabs .
THE Author undertakes to evince , ` ` That Crabs and wild Pears , such as grow in the wildest and barren Clifts , and on Hills , do make the richest , strongest , the most pleasant and lasting Wines that England yet yields , or is ever like to yield .
' ' ` ` I have so well proved it already ( says he ) by so many hundred Experiments in Herefordshire , that wise Men tell me , that these Parts of England are some hundred thousand Pounds Sterling the better for the Knowledge of it .
' ' He mentions , of these Kinds of austere Fruit , the Bareland Pear and the Bromsbury Crab , of which Notice is taken Page 4th of the Tract entitled Herefordshire Orchards ; and intimates , ` ` That tho ' the Discovery of them was but then lately made , yet they had gotten a great Reputation .
' ' He adds , The croft Crab and white or red Horse-pear do excel them , and all others , known or spoken of in other Countries .
' ' Of the red Horse-pear of Felton or Longland he observes , ~ That it has a pleasant masculine Vigour , especially in dry Grounds , and hath a peculiar Quality to overcome all Blasts .
' ' Of the Quality of the Fruits he says , ` ` That such is the Effect which the Austerity has upon the Mouth on tasting the Liquor , that the Rustics declare it is as if the Roof were filed away ; and that ` ` neither Man , nor Beast , care to touch one of these Pears , tho ' never so ripe .
' ' Of the Pear called Imny-Winter , which grows about Rosse ( in that County ) he observes , ` ` That it is of no Use but for Cider ; that if a Thief steal it , he would incur a speedy Vengeance ; it being a furious Purger ; but , being joined with well chosen Crabs , and reserved to a due Maturity , becomes richer than a good French Wine ; but , if drank before the Time , it stupefies the Roof of the Mouth , assaults the Brain , and purges more violently than a Galenist .
' ' This Quality , he apprehends , will sufficiently secure the Fruit from being stolen , tho ' the Trees should be planted in the most remote Grounds .
Of the Quality of the Liquor he says , ` ` That , according as it is managed , it proves strong Rhenish , Backrac , yea pleasant Canary , sugared of itself , or as rough as the fiercest Greek Wine , opening or binding , holding one , two , three , or more Years that no Mortal can yet say at what Age it is past the best .
This ( adds he ) we can say , that we have kept it till it burn as quickly as Sack , draws the Flame like Naphtha , and fires the Stomach like Aqua Vitae .
' ' He faith , ` ` That he made Trial at his own House with Wine d'Hay , by a Merchant of Bristol highly extolled , which , compared with a Liquor made of Crabs and wild Pears , was so much inferior , in the Judgment of all , that the Comparison was ridiculous .
' ' And he further relates , ` ` That a Gentleman ( Sir H. Lingen ) a great Planter , and expert in many Experiments , had then by him many Tuns of a Liquor made with this Mixture of Fruit , which he , by a designed Equivocation , called Pearmaine Cider , that carried the Applause from all Palates that all his common Hedges yielded him Store of the said Fruit .
' ' To recommend this easiest , cheapest , and most profitable kind of Agriculture , ( as he calls it ) he says , That the best of these Pears grow upon very bare and sandy Hills , or Vales ; Crabs on any Mound or Bank that may be raised on an Heath ; that one Pear tree ordinarily bears yearly 40 , 50 , 60 , 70 Gallons of Statute-Measure , and some 5 , 6 , or 7 times as much .
Since I undertook this Argument ( adds he ) within 10 Miles of this Place we made in one Year 50,000 Hogsheads , as I examined , not by Fancy , but by Rule and Inquiry ; and this shows the Hardiness of the Fruit .
Let our noble Patriots weigh , that this is not a Thing in the Air , but a most certain and apparent Truth , importing no less than the Art of raising Store of rich Wines on our common Arable , on our Hills , and waste Grounds ; the Charge a Trifle , the Pains very small , the Profit incredible .
Hence my Design is to urge the incredible Benefit that would redound to these Nations , if leading Persons would make themselves , their Tenants and Cottagers , all happy by following our Example .
I leave the Reader to cast up how many Millions of Hogsheads of Wine , in a few Years , would be raised in the Land .
And truly I conceive it the chief Cause , that in all these Times of late Wars , none of our poorest Cottages did see Want ; in all Houses they had the same Number of Meals , and the same constant Fare : Our Arable seems not a Jot the less , nor our Pasture the less ; and for some Uses the Shadow of the Orchard chard brings on the Grass a Fortnight the sooner , as commonly for Ewes and Lambs .
' ' The Author concludes his Tract with these Words , If this Discourse be duly valued , we need not raise Wars to destroy one another , or eat up one another , as we do ; in a short time we may be provided of Fruit enough for another World as big as this , and to make this a true Paradise .
' '

