V. An Account of a Book .
Apicij Caelij de Opsonijs &amp; Condimentis sive Art Coquinanaria Libri Decem .
Cum Annotationibus Martini Lister e Medicis Domesticis Serenissimae Majestatis Reginae Annae , &amp; Varijs Lectionibus integris Humelbergij , Barthij , &amp; Variorum .
Londini .
1705 .
8 vo .
THe Learned World hath been already obliged to the Ingenious Editor for his Notes upon Sanctorius , and Hippocrate 's Aphorisms ; yet in this Edition of Apicius he is pleased to give further proofs of his generosity in serving the Republic of Letters .
His Preface may be justly called a Critical Introduction to the History of Apicius , as to his Country , his Age , his Design , and the Various Editions of him , at Venice , Basil , Lyons , and Zuric ; amongst which many doubts are cleared up , and the Annotations themselves of Dr Lister will appear as Valuable as those of the most professed Critics , He being intent upon Things , and They too frequently upon Words .
After the Prolegomena come the X Books of Apicius under their distinct Titles , with the Scholia and Notes of G. Humelibergius , C. Barthius , Dr Lister , and others ; amongst which are interspersed several Remarks of J. Casauhon , Salmasius , Nonnius , &amp;c. all distinguished in the several Columns of this beautiful Edition .
Amongst these , the Reader will meet with many passages of the Ancients illustrated , and set in a true light ; especially Horace , Celsus , Scribonius Largus , Dioscorides , Pliny , Athenaeus , Celius Aurelianus , Martial , Petronius , The Rei Rusticae Scriptores the Geoponici , and many others .
At the End there is a very particular and complete Index , of great Use in a Work of such Variety of Words and Matter , as must needs occur in the Diaetetic Medicine .
It was thought proper to Print only 120 Copies of this Piece , to satisfy the Curious , ( who may be very few ) at the expense of some Noble and Liberal Subscribers , whose Names are affixt on the back of the Title Page ; after the manner of publishing Mr Lhwyd 's Lithologia Britannica , in the year 1699 .
London .
8vo .
Printed for Sam .
Smith and Benj .
Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes Arms in St Paul 's Church-yard , 1705 .

