III .
" On Fessel 's Gyroscope .
" By C. WIIEATSTONE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 6 , 1854 .
Since the announcement of M. Foucault 's beautiful experiment which has afforded us a new mechanical proof of the rotation of the earth on its axis , the phenomena of rotary motion have received renewed attention , and many ingenious instruments have been contrived to exhibit and to explain them .
One of the most instructive of these is the Gyroscope invented by M. Fessel of Cologne , described in its earlier form in Poggendorff 's Annalen for September 1853 , and which , with some improvements by Prof. Pliicker and some further modifications suggested by myself , I take the present opportunity of bringing before the Royal Society .
It is thus constructed : a beam is capable of moving freely round a horizontal axis which is itself moveable round a vertical axis , so that the beam may move in any direction round a fixed point ; at one end of the beam is fixed a horizontal ring which carries a heavy r disc , the axis of rotation of which is in a line with the beam ; at the opposite extremity is a shifting weight by means of which the equilibrium of the beam may be established or disturbed at pleasure .
The Gyroscope .
If the beam be brought into equilibrium , and the disc be rapidly rotated , by means of a thread unrolled from its axis , it will be seen that the beam has no tendency to displace itself in any direction .
Not so , however , if the equilibrium be in any way disturbed ; on moving the weight towards the centre of the beam , thus causing the disc to preponderate , it will be observed that if the disc rotates from right to left the beam will move round the vertical axis also from right to left ; and if the motion of the disc be reversed the rotation of the beam will be reversed also .
On causing the equipoise to preponderate contrary effects will take place .
The velocity of the rotation of the beam round the vertical axis increases in proportion to the disturbance of the equilibrium .
It will also be observed that , notwithstanding the increased or diminished action of gravity on the disc , its axis of rotation always preserves the same inclination to the vertical axis at which it has been originally placed .
The effect produced is a seeming paradox .
When the equilibrium is disturbed while the disc is at rest , the beam being placed in any other position than the vertical , gravity acts so as to turn it round a horizontal axis ; but when the disc is in motion the usual effect of gravity disappears , and there is substituted for it a continued rotation round a vertical axis , that is , round an axis perpendicular to the plane which contains the axes of the two original rotations .
A similar composition of forces takes place when the disc is caused to rotate while the equilibrium of the beam is maintained , by impressing on the beam a rotation round the vertical axis .
When the disc rotates from right to left , the slightest pressure tending to produce rotation round the vertical axis in the same direction , causes the end of the beam carrying the disc to ascend , and a pressure in the opposite direction causes it to descend , that is , the beam is constrained to move round a horizontal axis perpendicular to the vertical plane which contains the two axes of impressed rotation , a case exactly analogous to the preceding .
The beam ascends and descends in like manner , after rotation has spontaneously taken place round the vertical axis in consequence of the equilibrium being disturbed , whenever this rotation is any how accelerated or retarded ; the disc ro .
tating from right to left and its weight predominating , the rotation round the vertical axis is from left to right ; accelerating the latter motion will cause the disc to descend , and retarding it will occasion it to ascend .
As the centre of gravity of the beam is below its point of suspension , even when equipoised it is in perfect equilibrium only when it is horizontal , consequently , if it be elevated above or depressed below this position it will endeavour to resume it , tending to produce in the two cases rotations in opposite directions round a horizontal axis ; the rotation of the disc combined with this tendency gives rise , as in the other cases I have mentioned , to a continued rotation round the vertical axis .
If the disc rotate from right to left , and the end of the beam carrying it be elevated above the horizontal position , the rotation round the vertical axis will be from right to left ; if , on the contrary , the same end of the beam be depressed below the horizontal position , that rotation will be from left to right .
In all the experiments above mentioned the axis of the rotating disc has remained in the prolongation of the beam , but , by means of an internal ring moveable round a line perpendicular thereto , this axis may be placed at any inclination and at any azimuth with respect to it .
Very obvious considerations show that the inclination of this axis should produce no difference in the character of the effects but merely in their intensity , since in any inclined position of the disc its rotation is resolvable into two others , one perpendicular to the beam , and the other , which is incapable of producing any effect , in a plane containing it .
When the axis of the rotating disc is vertical and at right angles to the beam , no rotation on the vertical axis ought to take place in any case ; but , contrary to this expectation , although the beam be horizontal and in perfect equilibrium , a motion round the vertical axis results , which is in opposite directions according as one or the other end of the axis of the disc is uppermost .
It is , however , easy to see that this rotation is not owing to the same cause which gives rise to the phenomena hitherto considered , for whether it be accelerated or retarded no change is produced in the horizontal position of the beam ; it is , in fact , occasioned by the friction of the pivots of rotation dragging the beam into a corresponding motion .
Attention to this extraneous cause of rotation will explain numerous anomalies which present themselves in many of the instruments contrived to exemplify the phenomena of combined rotary motions .
It is one of the advantages of Fessel 's apparatus that the phenomena may be exhibited in their more important phases without being affected by this source of error , We may form a clearer conception of these phenomena by first considering some simpler facts which do not appear to me to have been hitherto sufficiently attended to .
For this purpose let the system of rings carrying the disc be removed , from the rest of the apparatus , and by unfastening the tightening screw let the inner ring be allowed to move freely within the outer .
Having set the disc in rapid rotation , hold the outer ring at the extremities of the diameter which is in the plane in which the axis of motion of the disc is free to move , then giving to the outer ring a tendency to rotation round that diameter , it will be observed that , in whatever position the ax is is , it will fly to place itself in the fixed axis thus determined , and rotation will take place round it in the same direction .
Considerable resistance is felt so long as the moveable axis is changing its position , but when once it coincides with the fixed axis the rotation of the external ring round its diameter is effected with facility .
A slight alternate motion of the outer ring , tending to give to it rotations in opposite directions , will occasion a continued rotation of the moveable axis .
The same result takes place when an endeavour is made to rotate the outer ring round an axis per. .
pendicular to its plane .
In all cases when the axis of the rotating disc is free to move in a plane , and the outer ring is constrained to rotate round a line in this plane , the moveable axis will place itself so as to coincide with that line , and so that the disc shall rotate in the same direction as the ring ; if the fixed axis be in a different plane the moveable axis will assume permanently that position in its plane which approaches nearest to the former .
The moveable axis is thus apparently attracted towards the fixed axis if the rotations are in the same direction , and repelled from it if the rotations are in opposite directions .
In the experiments just described the free and constrained axes of rotation intersect , but in Fessel 's apparatus they are distant from each other .
In the latter case the rule must be thus modified , that the free axis of rotation tends to place itself parallel to the constrained axis of rotation , or to as near a position thereto as possible .
By this principle all the results manifested are easily explained .
The beam being in equilibrium , a motion impressed on it round the vertical axis causes it to ascend or descend , because the axis of the rotating disc tends to place itself parallel to the vertical axis of rotation and so that the disc rotates in the impressed direction .
When the equilibrium of the beam is destroyed , gravity tends to make it rotate round a horizontal axis ; the axis of the disc endeavours to place itself parallel with that axis , but both being unchangeably at right angles to each other , the tendency to place itself there gives rise to a continued rotation .
Other results with this apparatus , to which I have not yet adverted , are similarly explained .
Fix the outer ring horizontally and loosen the inner ring , keeping them both however in the same plane ; then , on moving the beam round the vertical axis , the axis of the rotating disc will immediately fly to place itself parallel thereto , with rotation of the disc in the impressed direction .
The rings being placed in the vertical plane , the same result will take place if the beam be moved in a vertical plane , i. e. round a horizontal axis .
The following additional experiments may be made with the rings detached from the apparatus .
The results are necessary consequences of what has been previously explained:1 .
Suspend , by means of a string , the outer ring at the extremity of a diameter perpendicular to the axis of the inner ring ; and , having loosened the latter , place it at right angles to the former .
On causing the disc to rotate , its axis will retain its original position ; but if the slightest effort be made to turn the outer ring round the vertical line , the axis of the rotating disc will instantly fly into this position , and the disc will move in the same direction as that of the impressed rotation .
2 .
The horizontality of the loose inner ring being restored , if a weight be suspended from either end of the axis of the disc , that axis will , while it preserves its horizontal or any inclined position , revolve round the vertical line ; the direction of the motion will change if either the weight be applied to the opposite end of the axis or the disc rotate in the opposite direction .
If this rotation be arrested , gravity will immediately cause the weighted end of the axis to descend .
3 .
Clamp the rings together either in the same plane or at right angles to each other , and fasten a string , in the first case , at the extremity of a diameter coinciding with the axis of the inner ring , and in the latter case at the extremity of a diameter perpendicular thereto .
Having set the disc spinning , if a rotation round the vertical line be given to the system the axis of the disc will ascend , carrying with it the disc and rings notwithstanding their weight , and , even when the impressed rotation has ceased to act , will continue to rotate in the same direction until the motion of the disc ceases .
In this note I have purposely avoided entering into the mathematical theory of the phenomena , my intention having been solely to describe the apparatus exhibited and to give an intelligible account of its effects .
Those who wish to investigate the subject more profoundly , will find the best guide in the Astronomer Royal 's essay on Precession and Nutation published in his Mathematical Tracts .

