The Bakerian Lecture .
On a Method of rendering Platina malleable .
ByWilliam Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. 8sc .
Read November 20 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 1 .
] In this paper the author details the processes which , from long experience in the treatment of platina , he regards as the most effectual for rendering that metal perfectly malleable .
When it is purified by solution in aqua regia , and precipitation with sal-ammoniac , sufficient care is seldom taken to avoid dissolving the iridium contained in the ore by due dilution of the solvent .
The author states the exact degree of dilution requisite for this purpose , and the exact proportions in which the two acids are to be iused .
The digestion should be continued for three or four days , with a heat which ought gradually to be raised ; and the fine pulverulent ore of iridium allowed to subside completely before the sal-ammoniac is added .
The yellow precipitate thus obtained , after being well washed and pressed , must be heated with the utmost caution , so as to expel the sal-ammoniac , but at the same time to produce as little cohesion as possible among the particles of platina .
It is then to be reduced to powder , first by rubbing between the hands , and next by grinding the coarser parts in a wooden mortar with a wooden pestle ; because the friction of any harder substance would , by producing burnished surfaces , render them iIncapable of being welded together by heat .
The whole is then to be well washed in clean water .
In this process the mechanical diffusion through water is made to answer the same purposes as liquefaction by heat in the case of the other metals ; the earthy impurities being carried to the surface by their superior lightness , and the effect of fluxes being accomplished by the solvent powers of water .
The grey precipitate of platina being thus obtained in the form of an uniform mud or pulp , is now ready for casting , which is effected by compression in a mould , formed of a brass barrel , six inches and a half long , and turned rather taper within , so as to facilitate the extraction of the ingot when formed .
The platinum is first subjected to a partial compression by the hand with a wooden plug , so as to expel the greater part of the water .
It is then placed horizontally in an iron press , of which a figure is given , constructed so as to afford great mechanical advantage to the power applied to produce compression .
The cake of platina is then to be heated to redness by a charcoal fire , in order to drive off all the remaining moisture ; afterwards subjected to the most intense heat of a wind furnace ; and lastly struck , with certain precautions , while hot , with a heavy hammer , so as effectually to close the metal .
The ingot thus obtained may , like that of any other metal , be reduced by the processes of heating and forging to any other form that may be required .
It may then be flattened into leaf , drawn into wire , or submitted to any of the processes of which the most ductile metals are capable .
The perfection of the above method of giving complete malleability to platina , is proved by comparing the specific gravity of a fine wire of that metal obtained by this process , which is found to be 21V5 , with that of a similar wire drawn from a button which had been completely fused by the late Dr. Clarke with an oxy-hydrogen blowpipe , and which the author ascertained was only 211 6 .
A further proof of the excellence of the method employed by the author is derived from the great tenacity of the platina thus obtained , as determined by a comparison of the weights required to break wires made of this metal , so prepared , and similar wires of gold and of iron .
These weights he found to be in the proportion of the numbers 59 , 50 , and 60 respectively .
An account is subjoined of the process employed by the author for obtaining malleable palladium by the intermedium of sulphur ; and also of that for procuring the oxide of osmium , in a pure , white , and crystallized state .

