]\gt ; On the Resistance to the Motion of a Charged Conducting in or in Field of Force .
By W. WALKECP .
, M.A. , A.B.C.Sc .
, Fellow of Trinity , Lecturer on Physics in the University of ( Communicated by Professor A. L. H. Love , .S .
Pueceived February 2 , \mdash ; Read Iarch 2 In ations on node of decay of vibratory motion , .
Love has demonstrated the great ) tance ( considering the effect of the medium .
In the pal.ticulal ' case of a pendulum vibrating in air , it appears that the customary interpretation of the reaction of the medium on the pendulum , as an addition to the effective with a viscotls term , is a good approximation umder certain conditions .
But in order to an exact idea of what goes on , and justify the usual interpretation , it is necessary to examine in detail the motion of the medium , for it is only by this means that we can prescribe conditions under the usual interpretation is valid , and determine when this tion fails .
Turning to the case of vibrations , ppears to me that Prof. Love 's results ve a very important beal.ing on the questions of electrical inertia and electrical .
The present ) is an attempt to apply his method to some questions connected with the motion of an electrified spherical conductor .
In the paper referred to , a discussion of the vibration set up by a fixed conducting sphere when the icity is initially distributed with a surface density proportional to the first zonal harmonic .
The total charge on the is zero , it is easy to verify that the resultant mechanical force on the spherc is nil .
Tf vevel .
we suppose has a resultant , so we have a uniform surface density superposed on face density proportional to , then , since vibrations of zero ordel ' cannot be , the detertion of the vibl.ations of unity is exactly the same as in the case by Prof. Love .
I find in this case there is a resultant force on ) in the cctio of , the axis of the hal.monic a force ) : applied to the in order to keep it at rest , and this force uishcs o vibrations have subsided .
lf the constraint is not applied the ntlst nve .
Th otion of a conductor in a uniform ficld of electrical force is 'Proc . .
lsIath .
Soc Ser. 2 , vol. 2 .
MOtion of Charged Conducting Sphere , etc. a matter of great importance .
We shall begin by considering the following problem:\mdash ; A perfectly conducting sphere of radius , possessin a charge is placed is a uniform field of electrical force , and initially constraints exist which keep the sphere at rest with a uniform surface density .
The constraints then cease to act , and we have to determine what ensues .
the direction of effect of is ( 1 ) to make the sphere move in that direction , ( 2 ) to tend to establish an additional distribution on the surface proportional to the first zonal harmonic .
Vibrations of order unity thus become possible , and we shall confine our attention at first to the state of matters so as it is permissible to squares of the bhat is to say , if is the displacement of the centre of the sphere , we shall [ leglect squares of .
As far as possible I shall follow Prof. Love 's [ lotation , taking the initial position of the centre of the sphere as a fixed of reference .
I shall use for .
the co-ordinates of a point eferred to this origin .
Initially we have at all points outside the sphere ; ( 1 ) This state cannot continue .
At a subsequent instant , when the centre of bhe sphere is at along the axis , let the state of the medium outside the sphere be given by ( 2 ) The conditions that must be satisfied at the surface , which eparates the disturbed and undisturbed portions of the medium , require bhat and when In order to apply the condition that the component of electric force at the surface of the sphere should vanish , it is convenient to express the state of the medium with r , eference to a new fixed at the instant coincides with the centre of the sphere .
If refer to this origin , and we may premise the result , which appears in the analysis , that and are small quantities proportional to , then we get } Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electric Resistance , to the [ Feb. 2 This may be written in the form ; ' From these we see that the electric force vanishes at the of the sphere if The surface density is yiven by Or , in virtue of ( 5 ) , .
( I The component 01 electric force .
It is easy to see that the resultant of all the mechanical forces when integrated over the sphere arises solely from the component of electrj force .
The mechanical force in the direction of .
( 8 Thus if is the oldinaly mass of the sphere , the equation of motion is , or .
( 9 ?
05 .
] Motion of a Charged Conducting Sphere , etc. uations ( and ( 9 ) , along with the conditions hen , and , when , determine the motion .
It is of interest to note that equations ( 5 ) and ( 9 ) may be regarded as the uations of motion of a dynamical system with two degrees of freedom .
Putting , the equations may be written ; bear ?
Thus the kinetic energy is dissipation function the potential energy If we put equations ( 5 ) and ( 9 ) may be written ; ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) th the conditions , when and The solution of ( 11 ) is and are constants of ration .
the initial conditions , get .
( 12 ) Substituting in ( 10 ) , and putting , we get The solution of this equation .
the initial conditions is sint { , ( 13 ) Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electric to the [ Feb. 2 , Hence , ( 14 ) and .
( 15 ) These results hold as as is snlall .
We may observe that the initial displacement explessed by the damped harmonic ) of the motion is equal and osite to the displacement ) rossed by the non-periodic tion .
After one complete vibration the amplitude of the vibratol.y part of its initial value .
Thus if the displacement at time small , the vibratory part of the motion may have practically become insignificant before the equations become invalid .
Since the decay is exponential , this will be secured even when is only moderately great , while the condition that is small can be secured by making small .
In these circumstances the ) acement o the sphere is adequntely represented by , ( 1b ) within a certain We may readily ify the state of field ithin this , 1 ) ; , , ; monic ttain ould have to be ret , ere the not limited .
1905 .
] Motion of Charged Conducting Sphere , etc. where the origin being the centre of the sphere at time .
The surface density is .
( 19 ) Before discussing these results , and in case exception may be taken to the artificial nature of the initial state , I shall consider the following case .
The charged sphere is placed in a uniform field and at rest until the distribution of electricity is that appropriate to a uniform external applied field .
The sphere is then let , and we have to determine the subsequent state .
The initial state is thus iven by ; If we proceed in the same manner as before , it is fairly obvious that the lifferential equations for and are the same as before , , ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) .
initial conditions are now , when and V. O. Under the same conditions as before , I find that when the vibratory part las become negligible , ' ( 20 ) .
( 21 ) The equations ( 20 ) and ( 21 ) differ from ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) only in the constant ternls .
I have also verified that ( 20 ) and ( 21 ) give the same state of the medium ( 18 ) and same surface density ( 19 ) .
Equations ( 16 ) and ( 20 ) both give ; Mr. G. W. Walker .
Elecve to the [ Feb. 2 , The sphere thus arrives at the position given by 16 ) or ( 20 ) , as if the equation of motion had been , ( 22 ) and the initial velocity had been and the initial position ' in the case ( 16 ) , and in the case ( 20 ) This seems to me the only interpretation which can be put on the equations .
It thus appears that the effect of the medium is to contribute , i.e. , to the inertia in the equation of motion , and so far this agrees with the usual result .
No other term in the equation of motion , and the other effects are a permanent contribution to the velocity and a permanent contribution to the displacement .
It thus appears that when the state represented by ( 16 ) is reached no damping action of the medium takes place .
This is supported by equations ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) , which show that a surface density independent of the time has been established for an origin moving with the sphere , and that the electric field in the immediate vicinity of the sphere is also independent of the .
Since increases uniformly with time , the field varies .
The only difference as time goes on is that the region throughout which ( 18 ) is applicable becomes greater .
This result is remarkable , and requires examination , as it may appear to conflict with Larmor 's of the rate at which crosses a surface at some distance from a small system under constant acceleration , for his result csts continual damping .
There are however several points to be remelnbered .
expressions given by Larmor for the electric and magnetic forces apply only at great distances from the ol.igin , and require modification in the vicinity of the small system , e.g. , an electron which a definite size .
The rate at which energy vels o is calculated over a surf of large radius .
It must include at ] the portion of already is edistributed t space .
Whether this can be regarded as lost is .
Larmor ) oints ( that the flow of in the vicinity of the small system be different .
The rate is calculated on snpposition the ] forces are those due ' Ether and Matter , ' p. 226 , the sphere has a definite dius the surface at any instant cut the space its surface short interval of time previously , ) thus an expansion in uwers of be obtained .
If the charge is entl a at a mere point , expansion fails , and some new ] ) would to be , adopted .
1905 .
] Motion of Conducting Sphere , etc. to the motion of the system .
The rate would be modified if , as in the present case , other field of force exists .
Thus the rate calculated by Larmor cannot here be applied to give the reaction on the small system at any instant .
* There is no conflict , for the conditions assumed are not the same .
If the only field is that due to the motion , the radiated must be supplied at the expense of the energy of the moving system , and this means damping of the motion .
But when in addition there is an external field producing the motion , the field may supply the radiated , and the damping action is masked .
The cases are to those of an ordinary vibrating mechanical system with dissipation under the influence of ( 1 ) no forces , and ( 2 ) given applied forces .
The equation is not to be taken as meaning that there is transference of across the surface of the sphere , for we have seen that the constants of ration have to be given certain values which indicate an appalent initial velocity and initial displacement .
A reference bo the dynamical specification on p. 263 shows that the external field does work in altering the co-ordinate as well as in the co-ordinate The results may also be regarded as not inconsistent with those obtained by Lorentz and others .
Lorentz shows that the damping efl'ect is represented a term proportional to the equation of motion , and here when the vibrabions have subsided is zero .
By eliminating between ( 5 ) and ( 9 ) we get an equation for which is valid throughout the whole time considered .
The equation is\mdash ; fhis might be regarded as the equation of motion , but since the solution nvolves four arbitrary constants , we cannot complete their determination without a knowledge of the medium .
We thus conelude that if the vibratory part becomes negligible , while is still small , the equation of motion is and the is the solution of this , as if tlJe s had started with a certain initial velocity and a certain initial displacement from the original centre of the In cullncction with the question of electrical inertia it is of interest to Cf .
Somnlerfeld , ' Got .
Nachrichten , ' 1904 , vol. 5 , ] ) .
'Theurie Electl otique , ' p. 124 .
Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electric to the [ Feb. 2 , consider what happens if is zero .
We shall examine the case where the sphere is held fixed until the sulface density appropriate to a uniform is established , and the spbere then released .
Equations ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) now become .
( 23 ) and F. ( 24 ) The initial conditions are , when The solution of ( 24 ) is Hence in ( 23 ) we It appears that no vibratory part is set up , but the expression for does not satisfy the conditions when , for we cannot make zero without invalidating the whole thing .
We must thus regard the equations as failing when The question naturally arises whether of the conclusions arrived at wouId be invalidated by squares of .
If we retained squares and higher powers of it is we should have to assume vibl a of the seco1ld and ders .
In the initial of the the terms intloduced by ] ) of order will be propoltional to .
Thus by small we can make the first er already ated approximation as we please .
Ful.thel ; the vibrations of .
die out more rapidJy the higher the ordel .
We fore conchlde that by king F small , the additional tcrl ) introduced YYill in the initial be small in comparison with the filht terms , all hence the conclusions will not be substantially When tate represented by ( 19 ) ) is constant surface density stablished , electric field which in the of the is independent of the .
The cortinuance of the motion nnot , as as I can see , up any new damped harnlonic atio ol st order , tions ( 18 ) ( 19 ) continue to represent the 1905 .
] Motion of Charged Conducting Sphere , etc. , state with respect to the centre of the sphere at the instant considered , the only difference as time goes on being that the space throughout which ( 18 ) is applicable increases .
We may indicate the way in which this process must fail .
Vibrations of rher orders must arise , and the of the sphere becomes so great that the interval of time from to , during which being the displacement of the sphere from a fixed origin coinciding the centre of the sphere at tinle t ) is small , becomes less and less , so that the vibrations have not time to become nificant .
Whether , with the vibrations of higher order , as in the case of the first order vibrations , a state is reached when no further vibration of a particular order can be set up , is a question for further investigation .
If at a time , while equations ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) still valid , the external field is supposed to cease , new vibrations of the first order are set up , and the system settles down to a new state .
The procedure is much the same as before .
the centre of the sphere at time as a fixed of reference , and that instant as a new origin of time , we assume quantities for the displacement of the sphere for the vibrations . .
squares of , the equations are ; which at the surface of the sphere with the initial conditions which hold at the surface of discontinuity , and the values determined from ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) .
The solution of these equations is referred to the centre of the spbere at the instant considered , and now reckoned from the instant The emenL of the sphere is by Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electric Resistance to the [ Feb. 2 , The constants are given by ; B. If this new set of vibrations become negligible while is still small , we as before and It is readily verified that these give for the field applicable within a certain region .
This agrees with the usual result that whenl a constant velocity has been established , the electric field given by , is carried with the sphere , while the etic field is that due to an element of current We may determine and from equation ) , which holds whether or not the vibrations set up in starting the system have subsided at the instant , when is supposed to cease .
We thus obtain Hence the velocity finally establislIed is , is the velocity acquired by the system inertia 77 acted on by the for a time , so that the apparent colltributio to the initial velocity ( see p. 266 ) by the first vibrations is exactly destroyed by the second vibrations .
Again writing the above equation in the folll the parent contribution to the initial displacement produced by the first vibrations is oyed by the second tions .
The contribution 1905 .
] Motion of a Charged Conducting Sphere , etc. $ is the displacement due to the force acting on for time .
The contribution on account of the velocity for a time , could not of course be expected to disappear .
It is the only permanent effect of the medium on the sphere which could not be accounted for by the ordinary dynamics of a particle of mass acted on by a force for a time , and then allowed to go on .
Further , there is no loss of energy , for the velocity established is and the energy of the system and is thus the work done by the force acting on the particle of mass for a time The problem is thus into exceedingly cJose relationship with ordinary dynamics .
* The satisfaction of the condition emphasises what I have already said about the rate at which energy crosses a boundary far away from the sphere .
It must not all be regarded as energy lost to the system , but part of it must be taken as indicatin how the portion of energy is redistributed throughout space as time goes on .
If the field applied to the is of a periodic character , the sphere may be supposed never to move far from its original position .
Thus if is always small , the first order terms are adequate for an indefimtely great time .
We ] suppose that at time the periodic force begins to act .
Referring to ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) , the equations for and are readily seen to be ; ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) with the conditions , when and The solution of ( 26 ) is Hence substituting in ( 25 ) we get In agreement with this we may also observe that the dissipation function , p. 263 , which may be written , now vanishes , since the equations give Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electric to [ Feb. 2 , As the solution of this we \ldquo ; where A and etPrmined by the initial conditions Hence we get .
( 27 ) The damped hal.monic part rapidly becomcs ] rible , and we then have .
( 28 ) I find as in the former alnples that the initial conditions cannot be satisfied if , as dsnped harmonic part is up .
It is possible to interpret ( 28 ) as a solution of the equation where , with some ebraic retluction , it is found that , We callnot makc zero , since the process assumes that is small .
but if the frequency is so small that be ected , we approximately .
This grees with L result for an electron .
It also rees with the first term in result for a Heaviside ellipsoid when velocity is small .
'Ency . .
Math. , Part 2 , p. Electrician , ' pp. 868 , 869 , September 16 , 1904 .
1905 .
] Motion a Charged Sphere , etc. By between and ( 26 ) we get applicable from the initial instant .
For the complete determination of the arbitrary constants the in itial values of and are not sufficient .
These examples seem to me to eJnphasise the of the equations for the sphere and the medium side side , even when it is possible to oeret a differential equation for the displacement of the sphere .
it appears that we cannot determine the constants of ithout -ledge of the state of the medium .
I should like to my reat oation to Love his kindness in this paper .
On his estion some portion of it has been }Vl.itten , and the results thereby represented in a more manner .
\mdash ;

