I. " Researches on the Blood.-On the Action of Nitrites on the Blood .
" By ARTHUR GAMGEE , M.D. , F.R.S.E. , Assistant to the Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in .
the University of Edinbnrgh .
CommnLnicated by Prof. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Received April 1 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The paper commences with a statement of the facts with which we are at present acquainted , relating to the nature and character of the bloodcolouring-matter , and its relation to gases .
I. The actioni of nitrites in modifying the colour and spectrum of blood is then described .
Under the influence of nitrites , arterial blood assumies a chocolate coloration .
Coincidentlv the bands of scarlet cruorine ( or oxidized hmamoglobin ) become very fainit , and an additional absorption band , occupying the same position as that of acid hbematin , appears .
The addition of ammoniia to blood in which nitrites have induced the characteristic change of colour and spectrum , causes the red colour to returni and gives rise to a new spectrum in which the normal blood-bands are again better defined , but accompanied by a faint and rather undefined absorption band in the orange .
It appears from the experiments of the cauthor that the change in optical properties induced by ammonia is not due to any decomposing action exerted upon the body formed under the influence of nitrites ; for on neutralizing the solution to which ammlonia has been added , the original spectrum is reproduced .
When sulphide of ammoniuLmi , or a reducing-solution of iron is aclded to a blood solutioni which has been acted upon by nitrites , all effects of their action disappear , and the solution agaia possesses the spectrum of oxidized blood-colouring-matter , although precanYOL .
XVI .
tions have been taken to exclude atmospheric air .
The continued action of the reducing-solution then leads to the reduction of the blood-colouringmatter , which when shaken with air again yields the perfectly normal spectrum of blood .
It would therefore appear that when nitrites act upon the blood-colouring-matter they do not decowpose it , nor thrust out or remove the loose oxygen with which it is combined .
II .
The author then describes a series of experiments instituted with the object of determining whether blood which has been acted upon by nitrites has lost its power of combining with the atmospheric oxygen .
The apparatus and methods used are described , and it is shown that the amount of oxygen which nitrite-blood absorbs is much smaller than that absorbed by normal blood .
III .
In the next series of experiments the author made use of carbonic oxide gas as a reagent to indicate whether after the action of nitrites the loose oxygen of the colouring-matter is still capable of expulsion by CO. With this object the blood was arterialized by agitation with air and treated with a solution of a nitrite .
After some time it was brought in contact with a measured volume of pure carbonic oxide ; after being well agitated and allowed to remain in contact with it for some time , the gas was removed and analyzed .
It was founid in these experimenits that , after the action of nitrites , the loose oxygen of the blood-colouring-matter ( which the observations mentioned under 1 .
had been shown to be neither expelled nior taken possession of by the nitrite ) was so locked up as to be irremoveable by carbonic oxide .
IV .
The methods which have been employed by other observers for removing the gases from the blood are then examined , and the author describes the way in which he employed Sprengel 's mercurial aspirator to effect the object which he had in view .
He shows that with this instrument and following his method , the gases of the blood may be separated by boiling in vacuo during twenty-five or thirty minutes .
The gases of both lnormal blood and blood treated with nitrites were boiled out in vacuo , their amount estimated , and their composition determined .
It is shown that when blood has been acted upon by a nitrite , the amount of oxygen which can be removed by ebullition in a very perfect vacuum is immensely diminished , the greatest difference being perceived when the nitrite had been in contact with the blood during the longest period of time .
V. Although blood which has been acted upon by nitrites has , to a great extent , lost its power of absorbing oxygen , it still retains the property which normal blood possesses of ozonizing the atmospheric oxygen .
Nitrite-blood reacts with guaiacum paper exactly like normal blood , and when added to a solution of peroxide of hydrogen , it causes an evolution of oxygen .
VI .
The changes in the optical properties of blood are shown to be due to the formation of compounds of the nitrite used with oxidized haemoglobin ; these compounds , with , the exception of that with nitrite of silver , present the same crystalline form , colour , and spectruim , whatever the nitrite which has been employed .
The author has obtainied compoun:ds of heemoglobin with nitrite of sodium , potassium and silver , and with nitrite of amyl .
The methods of preparing them are described , and the results of anialvsis given ; these show that the amounit of a nitrite which adds itself to oxidized hmemogrlobin varies considerably .
haviniig stated the conclusions which he thinks may legitimately be drawni from his investigations , the author conieludes by making somue observations upon the relation which the compouinds of nitrites with h , mnoglobin bear to the previously known hbemoglobin compounds .
We have hiitherto been acquainted with hxmoglobin itself , as well as with its 0 , CO , and N2 02 coinpouinds .
These compounds are all isomorphous , and possess almost the same physical characters ; in each of them hbemoglobin free from ox ygen ( i. e. reduced hbemoglobin ) has apparently linked to it a molecule of 0 , CO , or N2 02 respectively , the stability of the compound being , least in the case of the 0 , and.greatest in that of theN2 02 compouiid .
All these bodies , and preeminently the 0 compound , are examples of a class of boclies which stalnd , as it were , on the boundary line which separates chemnical from physical combination , being examples of the class to whielh the term " c molecular compounids " has been given .
Like obher molecular comnpounds , their composition varies extraordinarily within certain linits , and is influlenced by circumstanices and conditions which have rno action on chemical compounds proper .
That a body possessing such a very complicated molecular structure as hmmoglobin should present numerous poilnts of attachmenit , as it were , for the linking on of such active conadensed bodies as the n.itrites is not improbable ; nor is it remarkable that , as in the case of other combinations " of a molecular kind , " suich as the union of salts with their water of crystallization , of sugar with bases , of albumen with metallic oxides , of the compound ammonias with iodiine , the amount of the new and more simple body added to the hammoglobin should vary within wide limits .
Simultaneously with the researches which the author has conducted on the action of nitrites on blood , those now being made by Iloppe Seyler * and Preyer t1 although discrepant in many particulars , seem .
to show that hydrocyanic acid possesses , like nitrites , the power of linking itself to oxidized hmemoglobin , forming a body which is isomorplhois wit it , btit possessing a ; different absorption spectrum , and incapable of absorbing oxygen .
This body appears not to possess the power of ozonizing the atmospheric oxygen , a fact which is straange , as , besides being possessed by the 0 com'i\feclicinisch-cheinisel.e Untersuichiingen .
Zweiter Hleft , 1867 , Cyan w as , e:ostoffhcinoglobinverbindfhimgein , p. 201 .
t Dio IJrsaclie cer Giftigleit defs C kankalliuimn iimlA cTeh , Bla.-LiuALe , rVOn W. Preyer .
irehllow 's Archiv,.13d .
xl , 21 Ift .
Sept , J867 2 j.~ pound , this property is also possessed by the CO and N2 03 compounds of hoenioglobin , as well as by the nlitrite compounds of oxidized heemoglobin .
It is probable that we may now find that a large number of condensed bodies have the property , like the nitrites , of forming combinations with the bloodcolouring-matter .

