II .
" On the Motions of Camphor on the Surface of Water .
" By CHARLES TOMLINSON , Esq. , Lecturer on Science , King 's College School , London .
Communicated by Dr. WILLIAM ALLEN MILLER , Treasurer and V.P.R.S. Received January 15 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to show that the phenomenon in question is a much more general one than is commonly supposed ; that the explanations hitherto given of it have been insufficient or erroneous .
The author endeavours to explain the real nature of the phenomenon in a series of experiments and observations , and to establish the following propositions : I. That the camphors , or stearoptens of the volatile oils , present phenomena of rotation and progression when thrown on the surface of clean water in a chemically clean vessel .
II .
That these phenomena belong also to certain salts , and to a variety of vegetable and other substances containing a liquid that diffuses readily over the surface of water .
III .
That solutions of camphor in benzole , in some of the essential oils , &amp;c. , present phenomena of rotation and progression on the surface of water-a property which also belongs to creosote , and to some other liquids that do not contain camphor .
IV .
That the motions of camphor may be imitated by placing on water miniature rafts or coracles of inert substances , such as talc , tinfoil , paper , &amp;c. , smeared with or containing the eleoptens of volatile oils , or indeed any volatile liquid , such as ether , alcohol , chloroform , &amp;c. , provided there be some communication and adhesion between such liquid and the surface of the water .
V. That the camphors , &amp;c. , being slightly soluble in water , that is , the adhesion of the water partly overcoming the cohesion of the camphor , a film of camphor is thus detached from it , and spread over the surface of the water the moment that the camphor comes in contact therewith .
VI .
That the dimensions and form of this film depend on those of the piece of camphor operated on ; and , in general , the film separates more easily from broken surfaces and angles of the fragment than from a smooth natural surface , just as the crushed or broken surface of a crystal is more soluble than a perfect crystal .
VII .
That such films being constantly detached from the camphor so long as it is in contact with the water , displace each other ; the preceding film being conveyed away by the adhesion of the water in radial lines , these produce motion , by reaction on the fragment , causing it to rotate after the manner of a Barker 's mill .
VIII .
That these radial lines or jets being of unequal intensity , the direction and intensity of the motion will follow that of their resultant .
IX .
That the jets or films of camphor can be rendered sensible by various means-as by fixing the camphor partly submerged in water , and dusting the surface lightly with lycopodium powder : a series of horizontal currents produced by the films will then be made visible , which films or jets cause the camphor , when free to move , to rotate on a vertical axis .
X. That the motions of the fragments of camphor on water are greatly influenced and complicated by their mutual attraction and by the attraction of the sides of the vessel .
XI .
That the film of camphor diffused over the surface of the water is very volatile , disappearing as fast as it is formed , chiefly into the air , only a very small portion being retained by the water .
Hence camphor wastes away much more quickly at the surface of the water than in water alone or in air alone , because at the surface the film is being constantly formed at the expense of the camphor , and is spread out to the united action of air and water .
XII .
That whatever interferes with evaporation lowers or arrests the motions of the camphor and the allied phenomena ; so , on the contrary , whatever promotes evaporation exalts these phenomena .
Effects which are displayed with great energy on a bright and sunny day , are produced either sluggishly or not at all on a wet , dull , or foggy one .
XIII .
That a fixed oil forming a film on water will displace the camphor film , and so permanently arrest the motions of the camphor ; but a volatile oil will only arrest the motions while it is present and undergoing evaporation .
XIV .
That the presence of the camphor film on water will , in some cases , prevent the formation of other films , the liquids that would otherwise form them remaining lenticular .
-XV .
That the camphor film , and other films , in many cases repel each other on the surface of water .
XVI .
That the motions of camphor on the surface of water are accelerated by the action of the vapour of benzole , and some other volatile substances : such vapours , condensing in the liquid form on the camphor , and then being diffused by the adhesion of the water , react on the camphor .

