535 1875 .
] On the Action of Light on Selenium .
current there was found to be also a diminution of resistance in the case of hard steel , and an increase of resistance in the case of soft iron and soft steel .
Thus the effects produced are the same as those due to transverse magnetization by a neighbouring current .
\#171 ; Conclusions to be drawn from the experiments:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The effect of passing any current through a bar of hard steel is to diminish its resistance , and through a bar of soft iron or soft steel is to increase its resistance .
I ( 2 ) When a bar of hard steel is magnetized by sending a current through a coil which encloses it , there is a diminution of resistance which is directly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current up to a certain limit .
, I ( 3 ) When soft steel or soft iron is magnetized longitudinally or transversely , there is an increase of resistance which is nearly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current .
XII .
" The Action of Light on Selenium .
" By Prof. W. G. Adams , M.A. , P.R.S. Received June 17 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of several series of experiments made in December and January last on this subject with the view:\#151 ; l ( 1 ) To determine whether the -change in the electrical resistance of the selenium is due to radiant heat , light , or chemical action .
( 2 ) To measure the amount of the change of resistance due to exposure to light from different sources and through various absorbing media .
( 3 ) To determine whether the action is instantaneous or gradual , and , if possible , to measure the rate at which the action takes place .
The selenium formed one of the four resistances in a Wheatstone s bridge , and its average resistance was about 2| megohms .
The two resistances in the bridge , which were kept constant , were 4 and 2000 , so that the resistance of the selenium was 500 times the variable resistance required to balance it .
R is taken to represent this resistance required to balance the selenium .
The box containing the selenium was laid on its side and had a draw-lid , which was kept closed except when exposure was made .
In front of .
the draw-lid was a black screen with an opening opposite to the selenium 6 centims. by 3| centims. , into or in front of which various absorbing media could be placed .
The absorbing media employed were bichromate of potash , sulphate of I copper , ruby , orange , green , and blue glasses .
Plates of rock-salt , alum , mica , and quartz were also employed .
With the lid of the box on , the resistance of the selenium was measured , and was found to increase slowly and regularly in consequence of the 536 Prof. W. Gr .
Adams on the [ June 17 , heating by the current .
In most of the experiments a battery of 30 Le-clanche cells was employed .
It was found that the higher the battery-power the less is the resistance of the selenium .
Experiments with 5 , 30 , and 35 cells gave the follow- ing results :\#151 ; Eesistance E with 5 cells ... ... ... .
5400 ohms .
" " 35 " ... ... . .
4400 " " 5 " ... ... ... 5400 " , , , , 30 j } ... ... . .
4600 " After some hours :\#151 ; Eesistance E with 30 " ... ... . .
4800 " " " 5 " ... ... . .
5750 " This diminution of resistance with increased battery-power may be accounted for in part by leakage from the rheocord ; and there may be also an opposing electromotive force similar to polarization brought into action in the selenium when the current is passing which increases with the current .
Exposure to light diminishes the resistance of selenium .
This may be accounted for by either of two hypotheses :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That light acting on the selenium sets up a polarization current in it which opposes the battery-current passing through it .
( 2 ) That light makes the selenium a better conductor of electricity by producing a change in its surface similar to the change which it produces on the surface of a phosphorescent body , by which that body is enabled to give out light after it has been exposed .
With the same battery-power , an increase in the temperature causes an increase in the resistance of the selenium .
In December , before the extreme cold , the resistance E with 30 cells was about 5200 .
Throughout the extreme cold , from December 18 to January 4 , the resistance E was about 4400 .
This was the value of Eat 1 p.m. on January 1st , a bright cold day .
On January 5 the temperature out of doors changed to 44 ' E. in the shade at 12 o'clock , and the value of E was found to be 5400 .
These values were obtained before the box was opened , and were the first experiments made on the days named .
When first exposed after being closed up for some days or even hoars , the selenium is more sensitive to light : this sensitiveness increases with the time during which the selenium has been kept in the dark ; hence the first experiment is generally not comparable with the others .
On exposure to light the resistance is diminished ; but on being again eclipsed , the selenium returns in a very few minutes nearly to its previous resistance .
The change of resistance produced by exposure to daylight sometimes amounts to one fourth of the whole resistance of the selenium .
The experiments with various absorbing media seem to show that the 1875 .
] Action of Light on Selenium .
action through media which absorb all the more chemically active rays is very nearly as great as when they are not interposed , so that the chemical rays produce very little effect .
I Experiments with the lime light , with rock-salt , alum , and quartz , and their combinations , two together , show that the resistance diminishes at the same rate as the illumination increases .
This seems to show that the action is almost entirely due to the illuminating power of the light falling on the selenium .
Experiments with the electric light , with smoked rock-salt , alum , and a solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon show that the obscure heat-rays do not act powerfully on the selenium .
In one series of experiments an attempt was made to separate the instantaneous effect from the gradual effect of the light .
This was done by first balancing the resistance of the selenium before exposure by a resistance It of the coils , then diminishing It by 300 , 400 , or 500 ohms , according to the brightness of the light , so as to get no sudden deflection when the current is made at the first instant of exposure .
It was difficult to determine beforehand by estimation what diminution of It should be made ; but after several trials it was quite possible to make the sudden deflection very small , either on one side of the zero or the other , and to keep the needle near the zero by continuing to diminish the value of It as long as the exposure lasted .
In this way the effects of exposure in successive equal intervals of time can be measured .
The light allowed to pass through the coloured glasses and other absorbing media was examined by a spectroscope , and it was found that the yellowish-green rays were among the most active in altering the electrical state of the selenium .
A series of experiments was made to determine the effect of light from different sources .
A Bunsen burner was employed , and chloride of barium , chloride of strontium , thallium , and sal-ammoniac were introduced into the flame .
The effect with barium seemed to be less than with strontium .
With sal-ammoniac in the flame the effect was as great as with strontium and more lasting .
With thallium the effect was considerably greater , more gradual , as well as far more lasting than with strontium .
The effect on repeating an experiment is very much less than the effect of the first exposure with each new source of light .
Experiments were made with the Bunsen burner alone in its ordinary state and when it is rendered luminous by stopping the air-holes .
Exposure to the ordinary Bunsen flame for several seconds only caused a slight deflection of about 10 divisions of the scale .
After this slight diminution of resistance the needle gradually returned to zero , and was 538 On the Action of Light on Selenium .
[ June 17 , deflected to the other side , as the heat radiated from the Bunsen burner was absorbed by the selenium .
On making the flame luminous , the needle was suddenly deflected off the scale with great rapidity .
With the 10 shunt to the galvanometer there was no deflection on exposure to the ordinary Bunsen flame ; but with the luminous flame there was a sudden deflection , which increased to 250 divisions of the scale in a few seconds .
This corresponded to a change of resistance in B of about 1250 ohms .
This experiment was repeated in a slightly different way .
The selenium was balanced , and before exposure to the luminous Bunsen flame , B was diminished by 1000 ohms .
On making contact and exposing at the same instant , there was a slight deflection , showing that the .
sudden effect was equivalent to rather less than 1000 ohms ; but in a very few seconds the needle was at rest at zero , and to keep the needle at zero the resistance was further diminished by 300 ohms .
The resistance had been diminished by one fourth of its whole amount in less than one minute in consequence of the exposure .
Exposure to an ordinary wax taper diminished the resistance of the selenium by 300,000 ohms , or about one eighth part of its whole resistance .
The illuminating powers of these sources of light were compared by means of the Bunsen photometer .
The light of the ordinary Bunsen flame could scarcely be measured , but was somewhere about part of a candle , and of the luminous Bunsen flame about 10 candles , whilst the light from the taper was at its best rather more than one fourth of a candle .
The heating effects of these three sources were compared by means of the thermo-electric pile and delicate astatic galvanometer .
At a distance of one foot from the face of the pile the deflection produced by the ordinary Bunsen flame was 46S ' , and by the luminous Bunsen flame was 52 ' , whilst the taper produced no effect which could be measured .
These experiments clearly show that very little effect is produced by the radiation of obscure heat , but that the effect is due almost entirely , if not entirely , to light .
As the effects produced were measured in deflections of the needle , some series of experiments were made to determine the value in resistances equivalent to the divisions of the scale , from which it appeared that with the 10 shunt to the galvanometer and with 30 cells , 20 divisions of the scale were equivalent to 100 ohms resistance ; and without the shunt , 100 divisions of the scale were equivalent to from 100 to 110 ohms .
Experiments were also made to determine whether moonlight would produce any change in the electrical resistance of selenium .
The experi1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
539 menfc was made at the half-moon , when the moon was high up , so that the light fell obliquely on the window and did not shine directly on the selenium .
On throwing the moonlight on the selenium by means of a plane mirror , the needle was at once deflected 20 divisions of the scale ; on placing the mirror outside the window so as to send the moonlight perpendicularly through the window on the selenium , the deflection of the needle was 40 divisions .
The window was kept closed during these experiments .
On another evening when the moon shone very obliquely on the window , and the selenium was exposed on the inside of the window directly to the moonlight , the needle was deflected 100 divisions of the scale , and the deflection increased to 150 divisions after exposure for about 3 minutes .
The change in the resistance of the selenium was from 60,000 to 70,000 t\gt ; hms .
These experiments show that the action on the selenium is due principally , if not entirely , to radiations belonging to the visible part of the Spectrum .
Light rays of all kinds , particularly the greenish yellow , produce an instantaneous effect followed by a more or less gradual effect , which continues to increase during exposure for several minutes .
These facts suggest two hypotheses as possible explanations , which may help as guides in further experiments , but which cannot be accepted as proved without further evidence .
* ( 1 ) That the light falling on the selenium causes an electromotive force in it , which opposes a battery-current passing through it , the effect being similar to the effect due to polarization in an electrolyte .
( 2 ) That the light falling on the selenium causes a change on its surface akin to the change which it produces on the surface of a phosphorescent body , and that in consequence of this change the electric current is enabled to pass more readily over the surface of the selenium .
XIII .
" On the Production of Glycosuria by the Effect of oxygenated Blood upon the LiverBy F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1875 .
In a-communication on " Lesions of the Nervous System producing Diabetes , " presented to the Royal Society in 1859 ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. x. 1859-60 ) , I made known that division of certain parts of the sympathetic system , occasioned the presence of sugar in the urine .
The effect of puncturing the floor of the fourth ventricle ( Bernard 's celebrated experiment ) had been for some time previously familiar to physiologists , but nothing had been ascertained about the production of diabetes by lesions of the sympathetic , until my experiments upon the subject were conducted ; and it was in attempting to discover the channel throug

