477 Potential Gradient in Glow Discharges from a Point to a By J. W. Bispham , B.A. , B.Sc. , Research Exhibitioner and former Scholar of Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S , Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) ( 1 ) Description of Apparatus and General Description of Phenomena .
Preliminary .
The original object of the experiment described in this paper was the investigation of the distribution of electric force along the axis of glow discharges from a charged point to a neighbouring plane in the case when striae are visible .
Such discharges are described by Y. Obermayer.* The appearance of the discharge\#151 ; as Prof. Thomsonf has pointed out\#151 ; suggests that the current is not merely carried by ions of the same sign as the discharging point .
Obermayer notes , however , that the type of discharge obtained varies considerably with the capacity shunted across the terminals of the discharge , and also depends on the self-induction in the circuit , indicating that the discharges are of an oscillatory or intermittent character ( see fig. 6 , A , B , D , and E ) .
The following experiments lead to the conclusion that the types of striated glow discharge described by Obermayer , in which the glow spreads out from the point to the plate in a more or less conical form , are of an intermittent character .
Speaking generally , it was found that in the case of hydrogen , when the pressure was about 1 cm .
of mercury , two types of continuous discharge were possible , one for small currents and the other for larger currents .
In the first there was only luminosity in the neighbourhood of the point .
But for larger currents , both for positive and for negative direction of the current , this point glow form changed over unstably to another form , in which a much lower E.M.F. maintained the larger current , and the form of discharge was then that obtained between small plane electrodes .
See fig. 6 ( E and F ) .
With a large external resistance in circuit an intermediate unstable condition could be examined in which the discharge was intermittent ( fig. 6 , A , B , D , and E ) .
Apparatus .
The distribution of electric force along the axis was obtained by first observing the distribution of potential along the axis , and hence deducing the * Y. Obermayer , 'Wien .
Sitzungsberichte , ' c.p. 127 , 1891 .
t J. J. Thomson , 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 1st ed. , p. 411 .
Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. 11 , electric force graphically .
For this purpose it was necessary to produce relative axial motion of the exploring electrode and discharge .
In the apparatus finally used , the explorer remained stationary and the discharge was moved past it on geometrical guides .
The discharge apparatus was enclosed in a large bell-jar 12 inches high and of 8 inches diameter ( fig. 1 ) .
The whole discharge apparatus was supported Fig. 1 .
1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
on a large glass cylinder which floated on mercury .
The motion of a mercury surface exposed to the atmosphere produced similar motions of the mercury surface at almost barometric height above it .
The latter surface floated the discharge , and was itself in contact with the rarefied gas under observation .
Two brass plates , 12 cm .
in diameter and 1 mm. thick , were fixed at a distance of 7*5 cm .
apart by three glass tubes , cemented into three collars on the outer side of each plate .
Another brass collar , of internal diameter 4 mm. , pierced the upper plate at its centre and passed through at right angles to its surface , extending about 1 cm .
on either side .
In this collar slid a brass rod to the end of which the discharge needle was soldered axially .
This arrangement furnished an adjustable electrical contact between the point and the upper plate .
The discharge point and the lower plate were fixed relatively during the experiments , but the whole system was moved up and down by flotation on mercury .
Attached to the lower plate by a central brass collar was a long cylindrical glass bulb which floated on mercury in a coaxial glass cylinder with a clearance of 2 mm. A rubber U-tube connected the outer cylinder with a reservoir of the type usually employed for Toepler pumps .
Its vertical motion was controlled by suspending it from a string fixed to the circumference of a pulley .
The pulley was screwed tightly back against a wooden surface , so that it was held by friction in any position in which it was left .
The pulley was adjusted by hand , and it was found possible to produce very small motions of the discharge .
The three glass tubes previously mentioned as holding the parallel plates apart also served as movable guides for the motion .
Through these tubes ran three other tubes of stout glass of smaller diameter .
The inner tubes ( G ' , G , fig. 1 ) forming the fixed guides passed eccentrically through the movable ones , and a vertical line of contact was formed between each pair which served as a geometrical guide .
This arrangement also possessed the advantage that the guides were on the same level as the actual displacement required , and so completely controlled it .
When viewed through a cathetometer it was seen that the relative motion of the exploring electrode and discharge point was very accurately parallel to the vertical cross wire .
The motion was very slow and steady by reason of the damping due to the viscous and surface resistances of the thin annulus of mercury between the float and its concentric chamber .
The cylindrical float was loaded with lead shot at its lower end to make its displacement more definite , to steady the motion , and to locate the Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. n \gt ; inertia of the movable system more nearly at the point of application of the hydrostatic forces .
The three tubes which formed the fixed guides G , Gi were securely cemented by a mixture of resin and beeswax into three vertical holes in an ebonite stopper ( X ) , closing the neck of the bell-jar .
The guides were also fixed relatively at a lower point by another piece of ebonite ( Y ) .
The fixed guides were thus knit rigidly together .
The bottom of the bell-jar was closed by a stout zinc plate ( Z ) cemented to the flat glass welt of the jar .
In the centre of the zinc plate was a circular hole with an ebonite collar ( M ) to receive the chamber which contained the float .
A glass tube ( B ) cemented through the ebonite stopper in the neck of the jar served as an inlet for gases , while a brass rod ( C ) also cemented through the stopper allowed electrical contact to be made with the discharge needle through a spiral of wire soldered to it and to the rod carrying the discharge needle .
The brass plate forming the flat electrode , was connected by a loose spiral of copper wire with the stout zinc plate , closing the bottom of the jar .
In the experiments the flat electrode was always earthed and the needle charged to a high potential by a Wimshurst machine , or by a large battery of lead cells .
The Exploring Electrode .
Earlier experiments were made with another form of apparatus in which the exploring electrode was a ring of wire arranged to move with its centre on the axis of discharge .
This form was subsequently discarded , because it was necessarily of a size large enough to produce quite marked disturbances in the electric field between the point and plate .
The form finally adopted was similar to that used by H. A. Wilson* in his experiments on potential gradient between plane electrodes .
A fine platinum wire E , 1/ 1000 inch in diameter , was covered by a-very fine capillary tube of glass to within 1/ 5 mm. of its tip .
The apparatus was exhausted by means of a Toepler mercury pump , and the pressures were read by a McLeod gauge which normally gave a magnification of 38 .
These are not indicated in diagrams , as they presented no peculiar features .
The apparatus was kept dry by two phosphorous pentoxide bulbs , and the hydrogen and air used were respectively passed through sulphuric acid and dry granulated calcium chloride to dry them before they entered the apparatus at all .
The hydrogen was prepared from * H. A. Wilson , ' Phil Mag. , ' vol. 49 , p. 505 , 1900 .
1908 .
] Gloiv Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
pure sulphuric acid and pure zinc .
In the earlier experiments the hydrogen was washed through permanganate solution .
But the gas always behaved after sparking as if it were moist , and it vras suspected that oxygen was carried over with the hydrogen .
In subsequent experiments the pressure remained constant for days and consistent readings were obtained .
Electrical Connections .
The circuit was a very simple one and is shown diagrammatically in \#166 ; 2 .
A battery B had one terminal earthed through a lead Lx .
Its high potential terminal was connected to the discharge point P through an adjustable resistance It .
The plate electrode was connected to earth directly or through the telephone T and galvanometer G- .
Fig. 2 .
If necessary , a condenser C , with one terminal earthed ( Ei ) , was connected to P , so as to shunt the main circuit as shown .
The exploring electrode X was connected by a wire W in a shielding tube S to the leaf of the gold-leaf electroscope Q. Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. H The case of Q and the shielding tube S were connected by a lead L8 to an intermediate point on the battery B. The movements of the gold leaf were observed by means of a microscope with 100 divisions in the eye-piece scale .
The external high resistance consisted of two parts\#151 ; a megohm coil adjustable by tenths of a megohm and an electrolytic resistance continuously adjustable from zero to several megohms .
The electrolytic resistance was mainly used for producing rapid changes of resistance in making observations of effects .
In taking potential curves , the coil was used whenever possible , as the liquid resistance increased with time to a maximum .
The current obtained from a battery of small storage cells was remarkably constant , and under these conditions it was particularly easy to obtain steady and reliable readings of the potential from point to point in the discharge .
Measurement of Potential .
The pressures used in these experiments were fairly high , generally of the order of 1 cm .
of mercury , and hence the potential fall between point and plate was of the order of 1000 volts , and never less than 300 volts , of course .
It was accordingly necessary to devise a method for measuring the potential accurately to a volt over a range of 1000 volts .
The method employed was as follows:\#151 ; The exploring point was connected by means of shielded wires to the leaf of a gold-leaf electroscope .
A potential difference of 120 volts deflected the gold leaf to such an angle that it was just off the eye-piece scale of the microscope used to view it .
There were a hundred divisions to the eye-piece scale , and a gold leaf was cut which was found on calibration to move roughly 1 division per volt , when the potential difference between the case and the leaf was between the values of 40 and 100 volts .
The potential of the electroscope case could be brought to any required value by connecting it by another lead Z2 to an intermediate point on the battery supplying the discharge current ( see fig. 2 ) .
The battery maintained its potential when supplying the small currents used in the experiments , and it was found by testing from time to time that the cells remained very steady for a week at a time , each 20 cells giving consistently 41 volts as measured by a Weston voltmeter .
The shielding tubes around the wire leading from the exploring point to the gold-leaf electroscope were electrically connected by soldered wires with the electroscope case , and the case and tubes carefully insulated .
In taking a reading , the shielding tubes and electroscope case were raised to such a potential that the gold-leaf image was always on a calibrated 1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
portion of the scale of the microscope eye-piece .
In making a detailed exploration of a small portion of the field , as , for instance , the region from a striation to its neighbour , all the readings were on the scale , and the potential of the case needed no adjustment .
This allowed an accuracy of 0T of a volt ( eye estimated ) over a range of 60 volts at least .
The capacity of the electroscope system was very small indeed , only a few centimetres .
On moving the discharge relatively to the exploring electrode , the gold leaf moved rapidly up to within a division or so of its final position , and then crept slowly to its final equilibrium position .
This occurred when the motion was either upward or downward and the positions finally assumed were identical for currents larger than 10-6 ampere .
The exploring electrode used produced no visible disturbance of the discharge and the results justified the conclusion that the disturbing effects were small , except in cases in which the discharge was intermittent .
Glow limited to Neighbourhood of Point { Hydrogen ) .
For small currents and fairly large pressures the glow was confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the point .
The results of the experiments are expressed as curves in which the ordinates are electric force and the abscissa distance from the point .
The diagrams for positive point discharges are named Pi , P2 , etc. , and those for negative point .Ni , FT2 , N3 , etc. , and they will be referred to by these names .
Only a few of those taken have been included .
A particular diagram , e.g. , P3 , refers to results obtained at a particular pressure and the different curves refer to discharges with different values of the current .
All the curves refer to a stable condition , that is , the E.M.F. increases as the current increases .
It is seen at once that midway between point and plate , the electric force increases as the current increases .
This is shown typically in diagram P3 which gives the curves obtained from a set of readings in hydrogen at a pressure of 5*9 mm. The curves A , B , and C refer to discharges in which the currents flowing were:\#151 ; A ... ... . .
1-3 x 10~6 amp .
, P.D. 990 volts .
B ... ... . .
7*5 x 10"6 " " 1040 " C ... ... .
26-9 xlO"6 " " 1120 " D refers to a slightly different pressure , the discharge was non-luminous and the current too small to measure .
For small currents the fall of potential is almost entirely limited to the regions very near the electrodes .
Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. li N2.\#151 ; A Current 3'7 x 10 6 amp .
, Volts = 1085 B " 61'6xl0-\#171 ; " " =1120 C " 147-2 x 10-6 " " = 1200 D " 246-4X10-6 " " =1210 N4.\#151 ; A Current 5"9 x 10 6 amp .
, Volts = 890 B " 53-2 x 10-\#171 ; " " = 905 C " 67-2 x 10-\#171 ; " " =885 Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
PLATE POINT P3.\#151 ; A Current 1*3 x 10 6 amp .
, Yolts \#151 ; 990 B " 7*5 x 10~6 " " = 1040 C " 26*9 x 10~6 " " =1120 D " very small " = 880 Experiment showed that this form of discharge\#151 ; point glow was only stable within a narrow range of pressures , and even then only for a limited range of current variation .
A greater variation in the value of the current was possible in the case of the higher pressures\#151 ; indeed , at a low enough pressure ( about 3 mm. for positive point and 11*3 mm. for negative point ) this form of discharge was unstable .
The current passed in an intermittent manner as indicated by a telephone in circuit .
Corresponding to this fact , by examination of the curves ( see figs. Ng , is 4 , p3 ) etc. ) it is seen that for pressures well in excess of those mentioned , there is a marked difference between the electric force curves for large and small currents , whereas for pressures approximating to those mentioned the curves for large and small values of the current are almost coincident ( see fig. N4 ) .
VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; a. 2 K Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient [ Nov. 11 , In fig. N4 the condition of instability has already appeared , for on referring to the figures it is seen that the largest current requires the least terminal voltage to maintain it .
The transmission of current always became intermittent if the current was sufficiently increased .
Further increase of electrical transfer was accompanied by a fall and not a rise of terminal potential difference .
The glow gradually took up the conical form shown in fig. 6 , A and D , and the telephone emitted a loud note .
Further increase of current finally produced a discharge which was continuous and stable , fche glow being very bright ( fig. 6 , C and E ) .
In the case of negative point discharge , for example , for small currents , a glow on the point was obtained .
As the current was increased the telephone began to sing for a definite value of the current , and then the discharge spread away from the electrodes until a general faint luminosity was apparent between the point and the plate .
This ultimately took the form of a positive column extending from the plate\#151 ; a dark space and a negative glow encircling the -discharge needle .
Further increase of the current caused the positive column to recede to a flat disc of luminosity on the plate .
Still further increase of current caused the luminosity on the needle to extend all over the cathode .
The experiments point to thq condition " point glow " being a form of discharge only possible for certain limits of pressure and current .
Within the limits of pressure for which it is stable , increase of current , produces ultimately an intermittent form of discharge .
Decrease of pressure ultimately leads to this intermittent discharge again , even for the smallest currents .
It was not possible with the available voltage to test higher pressures .
Some experiments were made in cases in which the discharge was *non-luminous by reason of the extreme smallness of the current .
In these cases the potential curves were of the form shown in D , diagram P3 , which give an actual case observed .
The fall of potential was limited to the immediate neighbourhood of the electrodes .
Curves such as A and B , fig. H2 , would tend to indicate that the discharge in some cases consists of two parts , a discharge from the point to the surrounding gas and another from the gas to the plate .
Small variations in the potential curves are associated with relatively large variations in the electric force curves , so that the point must not be unduly emphasised ; but the form of curve is a very general one for these sets of readings , and the point is therefore worth consideration .
Many curves of the same type were obtained .
1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
The Intermittent Positive Discharge without ( Fig. 6 , A ) .
As has been pointed out , with a high resistance in circuit it was possible to obtain an intermittent discharge for currents intermediate in value between those accompanying " point glow " and the steady discharge form represented in fig. 6 , C. This intermittent form is represented typically in fig. 6 , A. It was noted that the negative glow was a doublet divided into two portions by a dark interval p ( fig. 6 , A ) , although the Faraday and Crookes dark spaces were quite typical .
As the pressure was reduced , the whole doublet moved away from the cathode .
Potential readings were taken at various pressures and curves plotted .
The curves were all of one type , there was an apparent reversal of field between the surface of the negative glow next the cathode and the dark interval ( p ) referred to above .
That is to say , the surface of the negative glow corresponded to maximum and the layer to a minimum of potential .
The curves obtained are not published , as they are of exactly the same type in this particular as the portion AA ' of the curve of fig. 3 .
With all external inductances and capacities removed , the discharge retained the same character , and for large currents a note could be heard without the telephone in circuit .
The readings of potential\#151 ; the apparent reversal referred to above\#151 ; probably depended on the capacity of the electroscope system .
Probably the potential as each intermittent discharge occurred tended to rise to a certain value , and the actual reading depended on the number of ions present to convey electricity to and from the exploring point .
A test established this to be the case .
If was found that whereas the readings of the electroscope were independent of its capacity for continuous discharges , whether the current was large or small , for intermittent discharges the potential curves did depend on the capacity of the electroscope system .
Headings are given which were made to test this point .
Increase of capacity was found to increase the maximum of potential , such as A , fig. 3 , and decrease the minimum of potential ( A ' , fig. 3 ) .
Increase of the capacity of the electroscope system thus increased the distortion of the curve .
Readings .
Four readings were always made alternately with and without augmented capacity of the electroscope , of the maximum and of the minimum potential:\#151 ; Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. 11 , With condenser on electroscope Without condenser Yolts .
Maximum .
Minimum .
292 '5 ( mean ) 282 -5 " 239 " 5 ( mean ) 248 The results might he explained by supposing an excess of negative ions at the minimum of the curve , and an excess of positive ions at the points corresponding to the maxima .
The maxima were found to correspond very closely to the surface of the negative glow nearest the cathode , while the minima were closely in agreement with the dark interval ( p ) which divided the negative glow into a doublet .
A similar apparent reversal of field was obtained near the point in the case in which the point was made the cathode .
The apparent reversal seems clearly to be due to the positive electrification of the Crookes dark space , and to an excess of negative electrification at a point farther away from the cathode .
At some intermediate point in the negative glow the number of ions of opposite sign are equal .
A similar series of apparent reversals were obtained in plotting the potential curves from stria to stria in the striated form of discharge .
( See fig. 3 .
) Intermittent Discharge with Striae\#151 ; Hydrogen .
When a condenser was shunted across the terminals of the discharge , and the total E.M.F. applied through an external resistance was greater than that necessary to maintain the discharge , the discharge passed in an intermittent manner .
The period became very large when the condenser used had a capacity of a microfarad .
By adjusting the resistance the period became as long as 1 second , and the discharge passed by a brilliant flash of such intensity as to cause anxiety for the safety of the apparatus .
This flash was followed by an interval of darkness for a second , and then another such discharge occurred .
By decreasing the shunted capacity and decreasing the series resistance , the period could be steadily reduced until the note was of a pitch so high that it passed out of the range of audibility , as indicated by the telephone in circuit .
Under these conditions , stake ( fig. 6 , B ) were generally observed .
It was noted that the distance apart of the striae did not perceptibly change ( in this particular type of discharge ) when quite large changes in current were made , whereas , in the steady and continuous forms of discharge ( fig. 6 , C ) the disposition of the striae changed very rapidly as the current was varied .
An attempt was made to obtain potential curves under these conditions .
1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
Both curves ( figs. 3 and 4 ) refer to hydrogen .
The discharge from the negative point was first examined , and the potential curve obtained was of the form shown , fig. 4 .
On this diagram , both the potential and the corresponding electric force curves are given .
The electric force curve is probably unreliable , to judge from the type of potential curve obtained in the case of the positive discharge ( fig. 3 ) .
But it was observed that the fall of potential was steep in the bright parts of the striae , and fiat in the intermediate dark layers .
It is probably more easy to interpret the results +V*E POINT + -POINT by reference to the diagram , fig. 3 , in which the results for positive discharge are given .
The maximum A of the curve is of the type previously described ( in the case of the curves of intermittent discharges without striae ) and has been shown to depend on the capacity of the electroscope measuring the potential .
Both the maximum A , and the minimum A ' , are exaggerated by increasing the capacity of the electroscope , A then probably corresponds to a region of positive electrification and excess of positive ions , while A ' corresponds to a region of negative electrification .
Probably each of the maxima B , C , D , etc. , are of the same type and correspond to regions of resultant positive electrification while the corresponding minima refer to regions of negative electrification .
Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. 11 , Referring still to the case of positive discharge , fig. 3 , it is seen that on this supposition there is an excess of positive electrification on the anode side of the bright portion of a stria , and an excess of negative electrification on the cathode side of the bright part of the stria .
In fig. 3 , the apparent reversal is dotted if no intermediate point on the curve was obtained .
In the case of the negative glow , it is seen that there is an excess of positive electrification on the Crookes dark space side of the negative glow , while in the Faraday dark space negative electrification is in excess .
If the same line of reasoning TENTIA- GtIRVt RCE CURVE POINT 33cm .
||B6cm .
2|0 be applied in the case of the discharge from the negative point , it is seen that the curve should have a more uniform slope if these positive and negative excesses of electrification did not affect the electroscope .
The excesses of positive and negative electrification are very much more marked in the case of the discharge from positive point than in the case of the discharge from negative point .
It is possible that equalisation of potential is much more rapid when the discharge is occurring from a negatively charged point , because the negative ions are then in excess on the whole and they have a 1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
smaller mass and are more mobile than the positive ions , so that the local discrepancies are less marked .
The curves seem to be more reliable as indicating resultant electrification than as potential curves pure and simple .
The curve for negative point perhaps approximates to the truth .
It refers to a discharge in which the pressure was 3-9 mm. and the current 1*2 x 10-4 ampere .
Fig. 3 for the striated discharge from positive point refers to the same pressure 3-9 mm. , the current being 1-6 x 10~4 ampere and the average potential difference across the terminals being 800 volts .
Continuous Discharge for Large Currents\#151 ; Air { Fig. 6 , C and F ) .
As has been previously pointed out , the smallest currents at certain pressures were accompanied by a discharge in which luminosity was only appreciable near the point .
Increase of current produced an intermittent discharge in which the terminal potential decreased as the average current increased .
Still further increase of the current produced a discharge in which a large current was maintained by a terminal potential difference much less than was necessary to maintain the small current of the " point glow " type of discharge .
It is obvious that in the absence of the large external resistance which was always in series during the experiments , that the first condition would have passed over spontaneously to the second .
The resistance in question rendered possible an intermittent and otherwise unstable condition of flow .
The distribution of potential was examined for these larger currents , and the curves obtained point to the view that the point and a small area of the plate acted merely as small electrodes and that there was very little real modification of the discharge due to the point .
The platinum needle apparently acted as a cylindrical electrode merely .
The appearance of the discharge also tended to support this view .
When the platinum needle was made the cathode , the negative glow which surrounded it was of the lipped test-tube shape examined by Prof. H. A. Wilson .
The positive column extended from the plate towards the point and was separated from the negative glow by a typical Faraday dark space .
The luminosity , however , was limited to a narrow axial pencil and apparently the current did not flow from any but a limited area of the anode plate .
On increasing the current , the negative glow grew so as to envelop more of the cathode , while the positive column slowly shortened and retreated till it was merely represented by a very bright circular disc of light on the centre of the plate .
When the point was negative , striae were never obtained with these larger currents , but when the point was positive , striae were obtained , the discharge still being limited to a narrow pencil ( fig. 6 , C ) .
492 Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient in [ Nov. li With the point positive the discharge again presented the typical appearance , an almost cylindrical positive column extending from the point towards the plate .
A brilliant and somewhat peculiar negative glow at an unusually large distance from the cathode was separated from the above mentioned positive column by the usual Faraday dark space .
Gn increasing the current the positive column became striated , and on still further increasing the current the positive column shrunk back , stria by stria , into the point anode , until only a brilliant light on point and plate remained .
Meanwhile , the negative glow had spread itself over the whole plate .
Unfortunately , in the case of hydrogen , the narrow pencil of discharge y^as often not axial .
Apparently the dimensions of the apparatus introduced an instability for this type of discharge when it occurred in hydrogen .
No such instability was observed in the case of air .
Sets of readings were taken for the distribution of potential ( both for positively and negatively electrified point ) in discharges for relatively large currents in air .
The curves are not given , as they exactly resembled those obtained by Prof. Wilson for ordinary discharges .
The curves served to indicate , however , that the exploring electrode was acting in a constant and reliable manner .
When the plate was cathode the curves very clearly indicated that th e cathode fall was continuous throughout the dark space .
On making the-^1 plate positive the anode fall of about 35 volts was very abrupt .
A constant cathode fall of 340 volts was obtained\#151 ; the cathode being lead .
The cathode fall was independent of current and pressure for large changes and was scarcely increased when the point was made cathode , indicating that the influence of the " point " was no longer very great .
The electric force in the negative glow was very small indeed .
The curves gave very satisfactory testimony as to the efficiency of the explorer .
Abnormal Thickness of the Dark .
Space in Air and Hydrogen .
For these readings the plate wTas always made the cathode .
The boundary of the negative glow ( both for large continuous currents and also for the oscillatory types of discharge described above ) was definite and constant , and as it was very nearly parallel to the cathode plate , readings of considerable accuracy were possible , until the pressure became so low that the \#166 ; boundary was no longer distinct .
The thickness of the dark space was measured by the movement of the discharge necessary to bring first the plate and then the boundary of the negative glow into coincidence with the exploring point .
The appearance of the negative ' glow was extraordinary for large steady currents , and J2 Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
o \lt ; / ) RECIPRpCAL Fig. 5.\#151 ; Cathode space in air .
erves special mention .
The negative glow was of the form represented grammatically in fig. 6 , C. It closely resembled one of the striae of the fitive column ( m ) embedded in a blue halo ( n ) in the case of hydrogen , e striae and the central portion of the negative glow were of a bright mon-red colour .
The negative glow was surrounded by a blue halo .
VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; A. 2 L 494 Mr. J. W. Bispham .
Potential Gradient [ Nov. 11 , Moreover , the cathode dark space was unusually large , and instead of being concave , the negative glow , like the striae , was convex to the cathode , as was also noticed in the case of the intermittent type of discharge .
Some results will be detailed for the case of air .
The thickness of the dark space was measured to the strongest line of demarcation between the glow and the dark space .
In the case of the continuous discharge as shown in fig. 6 , C , the reading to the boundary of the blue halo ( n ) gave a very different value from the reading to the strong line of demarcation which divided the red glow mfrom the blue halo .
Sets of readings were taken and curves drawn to compare the values of the dark space with those obtained by Ebert* and Ashtonf .
INTERMITTENT CURRENT * CONSTANT CURRENT LARGER CURRENT WITHOUT STRI/ E. .
PLATE eZZZZZ ?
22ZZZZZZZZZ ) LARGER CURRENT GLOW COLUMN COLUMN TCOLUMN Fig. 6 .
The curves were of similar type , but the values obtained , both in air and hydrogen , were uniformly greater than those of Ebert and Ashton .
Thus in fig. 5 the curves BB and DD refer to measurements in air for large steady currents ( BB up to red glow , DD to the vague blue halo ) .
Curves CC and AA refer to intermittent discharges respectively with and without condenser shunted in .
EE and EE are the values obtained by Ebert and Ashton .
As has been mentioned , the negative glow was unusual in appearance , and * Ebert , ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 19 , pp. 200 , 372 , 1899 ; and * Verhand .
Deutsch .
Physik-Ges .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 99 , 1900 .
t Ashton , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' April , 1907 .
1908 .
] Glow Discharges from a Point to a Plane .
495\gt ; looked\#151 ; in the case of large steady currents\#151 ; like a stria embedded in a blue halo .
The unusually large values of the cathode dark space indicated by the curves may be due to the proximity of the point , or to the large size of the cathode as compared with the distance between the electrodes , but these points have not been investigated .
The readings were taken because it was observed that the cathode space was unusually large .
It was impossible to continue the investigation .
Some diagrams of discharges are given in fig. 6 .
The above experiments were carried out at the Cavendish Laboratory , , Cambridge , and I am much indebted to the inspiration of that Institution , , and more particularly to Prof. Sir John Thomson for his constant interest and advice .

