if 1879 .
] Dr. B. W. Richardson on the Audiometer .
65 It measures also the electrostatic capacity of Leyden jars or con-\gt ; 1 densers , and is sufficiently sensitive to appreciate and measure a surface t| of tinfoil not larger than 4 inches square , the condenser being simply fi placed between the wires of one pair of coils , and the disturbance pro-r| duced being measured on the sonometer .
I could cite many more interesting experiments in other branches :\lt ; f of physical research for which this instrument offers a wide field of 1 observation ; but my object this evening is neither to broach new Of theories nor to correlate at present the results obtained with views 2 already advanced by Ampere and others .
My only desire has been and is to show the wide field of research I the instrument opens to physical inquirers .
I trust that in more able I hands it may serve to elucidate many physical phenomena .
1 IV .
" Some Researches with Professor Hughes ' new Instrument for the Measurement of Hearing ; the Audiometer .
" By Benjamin Ward Richardson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 14,1879 .
Professor Hughes having done me the honour to show me first his | newly invented instrument for the measurement of hearing , and having 1 supplied me with an instrument for the purpose of testing the applica-I tion of it for physiological and practical purposes , I have been enabled I to make a considerable number of experiments , on which I venture to 1 submit the following preliminary report:\#151 ; The instrument , as it has been used , is before the Society .
It con-I sists of two Leclanche 's cells for the battery , a new and simple micro-1 phonic key connected with the cells and with two fixed primary coils , I and a secondary or induction coil the terminals of which are attached I to a telephone .
The induction coil mo^es on a bar between the two 1 fixed coils , and the bar is graduated into 200 parts , by which the I readings of sound are taken .
The graduated scale is divided into I 20 centime .
, and each of these parts is subdivided into 10 , so that the I hearing may be tested from the maximum of 200 units to 0'\#151 ; zero .
I The fixed coil on the right hand contains 6 metres of wire ; the fixed I coil on the left hand contains 100 metres .
By this means a long scale I from the left hand coil is produced .
The secondary coil contains 100 I metres of wire .
In using the instrument , one Leclanche 's cell has been found suffi-I cient , as a general rule , but two have been used in instances where I the hearing of the person under test has been very defective .
The I Leclanche cell was selected by Professor Hughes as affording a reliable I current for the purposes he had in view , and for standard comparisons .
vol. xxix .
F 66 Dr. B. W. Richardson on Audiometer .
[ May 15 , In using the instrument , the induction coil is moved along the scale from or towards the larger primary , as may he required , and the degrees or units of sound are read from the figures on the scale , the sound being made by the movement of the microphonic key between the battery and the primary coils .
The person whose hearing is being tested should sit in an easy position , and should not see the act of the observer in moving the microphone key .
For good observation , the room in which the experiment is made should be large , and all external causes of sound , such as the ticking of clocks , the vibrations of windows and doors , the moving of feet and the singing from gas jets , should be silenced .
The sitter should close the ear that is not applied to the telephone while he is listening for minute sounds , and should give his full and calm attention to the proceeding .
Any excitement is like to lead to error when refined measurements are required .
Capacity of the Instrument for Observation .
The instrument may be considered to afford the most satisfactory means for testing the hearing power of all persons who can define a sound .
The range of sound is sufficient at the maximum\#151 ; 200'\#151 ; for everyone who is not absolutely deaf ; 0 ' , or zero , is a point of positive silence from the instrument , or rather from the sound which it produces through the telephone .
Phenomena from Observations made on different Persons .
Abrupt Loss of Sound .
One of the first facts learned with the audiometer is the suddenness with which the sound is lost to those who are listening .
The sound is abruptly lost within a range of 2 ' ; that is , within one-hundredth part of the entire scale .
This is the case with those who are very deaf as well as with those who hear readily , a fact originally noticed by Mr. Hughes , and which , I have corroborated by fifty special observations on different persons presenting powers of hearing which varied from 200 ' to 140 ' as the extreme limit or capacity , to complete hearing through the whole scale , down to zero .
In these persons , when the observation was taken , under the strictest possible conditions for surrounding silenGe , the point between distinctness of sound and complete loss of it was not more than one-hundredth part of the scale .
Continuous Searing in Line .
In testing the capacity of hearing , it is noticeable that the power to detect the diminishing sound is maintained best by continuing the reduction in trace or line while the attention is fixed .
A sudden break may cause the sound to be lost to the listener long before his real inca1879 .
] Dr. B. W. Richardson on Audiometer .
pacity to hear is reached .
If , for instance , the sound be very faintly heard at 15 ' , and the induction coil be suddenly moved to 5 ' , the sound at 5 ' may be quite inaudible ; but if the coil be slowly moved , unit by unit , from 15 ' to 5 ' , the sound at 5 ' may be distinctly heard .
Mr. Maitland Tate , C.E. , who noticed this point very markedly in his own case , when I was submitting him to test , compared this to what is observed by the sense of sight in making surveys .
The eye will follow a line to an extreme point with comparative readiness , but if it break away from it , the object seems to have disappeared .
Influence of Respiration on Hearing .
The effect of filling the chest and holding the breath makes a difference in listeners .
The capacity for hearing is for a few seconds increased by holding the breath .
Mr. Tate , who could hear with his right ear only down to 8 ' under ordinary breathing , could hear down to 5 ' when he held his breath .
Another gentleman , who could hear only down to 100 ' under ordinary breathing , could hear to 80 ' when the breath was held with the chest full .
Holding the breath with the chest not full fails to produce the same result . .
Influence of habitual Movements of the Body .
As a rule , the hearing-of persons who are right-handed is most refined in the right ear , and as most persons are right-handed , it is found that the right ear is the best ear .
This rule is , however , attended with many exceptions , since , for various reasons , some persons who use the right hand exclusively , practise for some particular purpose the use of the left ear , upon which that ear becomes more acute .
Thus five physicians , who were right-handed but who had accustomed themselves to use the stethoscope with the left ear , could hear to zero on that side , but had lost from 4 ' to 5 ' on the right side .
Four other persons who were similarly circumstanced were ablfe at once to account for the fact by the habit they had acquired of listening to a public discourse or sermon from the left side .
Another point of interest attaching to this observation is , that the practice of using one ear for special refinement of the sense seems for the time slightly to impair the other ear , although there is no physical evidence of such impairment .
Influence of some Automatic Adjustment of Memory , on Hearing .
Connected with the last-named fact is another , namely , that by this instrument the deaf are found to fail in capacity of hearing not only by reason of physical defect , but also by failure of memory of sounds .
Thus in a youth who had suffered serious defect of hearing for seven years owing to partial destruction of the tympanum , and who in the right ear could only detect sound at 107 ' , there was an inability to Dr. B. W. Richardson on the Audiometer .
[ May 15 , catch all the sound lying between 130 ' and 107 ' , until he could remember what he had to listen for .
By practising him then to detect the lowest sound that he was physically capable of receiving , I got him to detect this one sound more readily than those which came higher up .
By further practice all the intervening sounds became audible with equal facility .
These facts , which have been confirmed by another observation on a different person , seem to me to indicate that deafness from imperfection of the tympanum or other parts of the organ of hearing may be increased , beyond the mere physical failure , either from some lost power of automatic adjustment in the auditory apparatus , or from failure of receptive power in the cerebrum itself , so that the memory , rendered imperfect , is slow to assist the listener until by exercise of function its readiness is restored. .
Influence of Atmospheric Pressure .
By use of the audiometer , the influence of atmospheric pressure on hearing is detectable .
In my own case when the barometer is at 30 I can hear on both sides close down to zero ; but below 30 I fail by 2 ' on the left side to reach zero .
In another person a similar failure extends to a loss of 4 ' .
Observations on Lower Animals .
I have tried to determine in some of the lower animals whether there is the same , sense of hearing as in man .
In most animals it is difficult to obtain sufficient quietude to enable the observer to gather from expression or movement of the animal the information sought for .
In two dogs , one a terrier , the other a field spaniel , I succeeded in making some good observations , and in them the range of hearing power seemed to be distinctly lower than it is in the human subject who has perfect hearing .
In both these animals , which were healthy , and in the prime of life , the first indication of the detection of sound commenced at 10 ' on the scale .
The detection was evidenced by the sudden expression of listening , by a slight change of position , and a slight dilatation of the pupils .
This detection was clearly made on the instant , as if the sharp line of hearing were the same in them as it is in the higher animal .
Practical Memoranda .
1 .
The audiometer will , I think , be an essential in all physical examinations of men who are Undergoing examination as to their fitness for special services requiring perfect hearing , such as soldiers , sentries , railway officials , and the like .
2 .
The instrument will be of great use to the physician in determin1.1879 .
] Dr. B. W. Richardson on the Audiometer .
69 I ing the value of hearing in those who are deaf , and in determining I the relative values of the two organs of hearing .
In one instance , I already , I have been able by its means to detect in a person who was I supposed to be equally deaf on both sides , that on one side the hearing I is perfect close up to zero , while on the other side nine-tenths of the I hearing is lost .
3 .
In other forms of diagnosis I have found the instrument useful .
I In a young person suffering from acute ansemia the hearing was so de-I fective that on the right side it failed to detect sound at 18 ' , and on I the left side at 15 ' .
In ten days , during which , under a new regimen , I great improvement took place in strength and general condition , the power of hearing had so much improved that the right ear was good down to 12 ' , and the left to 3 ' j an improvement of 6 ' on the right , and of 12 ' on the left side .
Tn another person who was subject to repeated vertigo , the giddiness occurring three or four times a-day , the hearing was so defective j that although the external ear on each side was clear and the tympanum natural , no sound could be heard below 30 ' .
Under complete rest and attention to diet , the vertiginous attacks were in a few days removed altogether , and with that removal there was gain of hearing , on both sides equally , up to 5 ' on the audiometric scale .
4 .
The instrument may be used to differentiate between deafness through the external ear and deafneBS from closure of the Eustachian tube , \#151 ; throat deafness .
In my own case I fail to detect sound by the mouth at 170 ' , and this I find is a fair average in those who are healthy .
It represents the comparative value of communication by sound through the Eustachian eanal and the external ear .
5 .
The instrument promises to be very useful in detecting the effects in the body of those agents which quicken or excite the circulation , such as alcohol and other similar chemical substances .
I have some observations on these points in reserve for a further report .
6 .
The instrument promises to be \#174 ; f great service in determining the value of artificial tympanums in instances of deafness due to imperfection or destruction of the natural tympanum .
The cotton artificial tympanums introduced originally by the late Dr- .
Yearsley , and the membranous tympanums introduced by the late J. Toynbee , F.R.S. , have proved of much service-$ and , by means of the- audiometer , I have been able very accurately to test their respective merits and to compare both with tympanums made- of other- material .
The inquiry has led me to test different metals for this purpose , and to find in fuse gold the substance for making the most useful and effective artificial drum .
The Messrs. A.sh , of Broad Street , have made for me various forms of gold drums , the best of which , perhaps , is a little cylinder which , with other forms , is placed before the Society .
With one of these cylinders I was able to give to a young gentleman who had lost 70 Dr* B. W. Richardson on the [ May 15 , hearing on the right side up to 110 ' , from destruction of the tympanum , an instant gain down to 60 ' , a gain of 50 ' on the audiometric scale .
In this preliminary report I have omitted many subjects of interest , but I hope I have related enough to show that the world of science in general , and the world of medicine in particular , is under a deep debt of gratitude to Professor Hughes for his simple and beautiful instrument , which I have christened the audimeter , or less correctly but more euphoniously , the audiometer .
V. " Note on the Invention of a Method for making the Movements of the Pulse Audible by the Telephone .
The Sphygmophone .
" By Benjamin Ward Richardson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 14 , 1879 .
While experimenting with the audiometer , it occurred to me that I might get a secondary or telephonic sound from the movements of the pulse at the wrist .
I have effected this in a very simple manner , by adding a microphone to a Pond 's sphygmograph .
I mount on a slip of talc , glass , wood , or ebonite a plate of metal or gas carbon .
I place the slip in the sphygmograph as if about to take a tracing of the pulse .
I connect one terminal from a Leclanche 's cell to the metal or carbon , and the second terminal from the cell to a terminal of the telephone .
Then I connect the other terminal of the telephone with the metal rod of the sphygmograph .
The instrument is now ready for use .
It is placed on the pulse , in the ordinary way , and is adjusted , with the writing needle thrown back , until a good pulsating movement of the needle is secured .
When the movement is in full action , the needle is thrown over to touch the platinum plate , which it traverses with each pulse-movement , and completes the connexion between the 'telephone and the battery .
The needle , in passing over the metal or carbon plate , causes a distinct series of sounds from the telephone , which correspond with the movements of the pulse .
When all is neatly adjusted , the sounds heard are three in number , one long sound and two short , corresponding to the systolic push , the arterial recoil , and the valvular check .
The sounds are singular , as resembling the two words , " bother it .
" The sounds can be made very loud by increasing the battery power .
This little instrument is not so good a recorder of the pulse as the sphygmograph , but it may be made very useful in class , for illustrating to a large number of students , at one time , the movements of the natural pulse , and the variations which occur in disease .
I call the invention the sphygmophone .

