XIV .
" On the Anatomy and Physiology of the Nematoids , parasitic and free ; with observations on their Zoological Position and Affinities to the Echinoderms .
" By HENRY CIIARLTON BASTIAN , M.A. , M.B. ( Lond. ) , F.L.S. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY .
Received June 13 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) After commenting upon the many conflicting statements which have been made concerning the anatomy of these animals , and more especially with regard to the presence or absence of a nervous system , and of real organs of circulation , the author alludes to the increased interest which has lately been thrown over this order by the discovery of so many new species of the non-parasitic forms , marine , land , and freshwater .
He has entered fully into the description of the tegumentary organs , and has recognized a distinct cellulo-granular layer intervening between the great longitudinal muscles and the external chitinous portion of the integument .
This layer is one of great importance in the economy of these animals ; the author looks upon it as the deep formative portion of the integument from which the chitinous lamellae are successively excreted .
It is bounded internally by a fibrous membrane , which serves as an aponeurosis for the attachment of the four great longitudinal muscles ; and the well-known lateral and median lines which have so long been a puzzle to anatomists are , he says , in reality nothing more than inter-muscular developments of this layer .
In some species each of the lateral lines contains an axial vessel , though in very many others nothing of this kind is to be met with .
A periodical ecdysis of the chitinous portion of the integument takes place in all Nematoids durin.g the period of their growth .
The author agrees with Dr. Schneider as to the nature of the transverse fibres attached to the median lines .
They are contractile prolongations from the longitudinal muscles , and may be considered extrinsic muscles for the propulsion of the intestinal contents , since the intestine itself has no muscular tissue in its walls .
Schneider 's description of the nervous system in Ascaris megalocephala has been confirmed , and a similar arrangement has been recognized by the author in several other Nematoids .
It exists as a nervous ring encircling the commencement of the oesophagus , in connection with many large ganglion-cells .
The principal peripheral branches are given off from the anterior part of the ring , and proceed to the region of the mouth and cephalic papillae .
Although well developed ocelli exist in many of the free marine species , no nerve-filaments have yet been detected in connexion with them .
The organs of digestion are mostly simple , the principal variations being met with in the presence or absence of a pharyngeal cavity , and in the structure of the oesophagus .
In some species its parietes are distinctly muscular , whilst in others , as in the Trichocephali and Trichosomata , they are as distinctly cellular .
Those possessing a pharyngeal cavity sometimes have well-marked tooth-like processes developed from its walls ; but the author believes that the chitinous plates which are sometimes met with in posterior swellings of the oesophagus are not " gastric teeth , " as they have been hitherto described , but rather valvular plates for ensuring greater perfection in the suctorial process by which these animals pass their food along this portion of the alimentary canal .
The water-vascular system may be seen in many Nematoids in its most elementary condition , as a small tubular gland , with an excretory orifice in the mid-ventral region of the anterior part of the body .
In other Nematoids no trace of such a system exists ; whilst its most developed condition yet recognized in these animals may be seen in lscaris osculata and A. spiculigera , where an intimate plexus of vessels , still in connexion with an anterior ventral pore , is met with in a peculiar development from the left lateral band .
Intermediate conditions between these extreme forms may be traced in other species ; and from the obviously glandular nature of the tubular or pyriform orgal met with so commonily in the free , and also in many of the parasitic species , he thinks considerable light is thrown upon the function of the " water-vascular " system .
He says , " H ere we have undoubtedly to deal with an excretory glandular apparatus .
No one could for a moment regard these structures as at all analogous to vessels destined alternately to receive and discharge an external fluid medium .
I believe that in the Trematoda and Tceniada also , where similar though often more developed systems exist , their function is in like manner one of a purely eliminatory kind ; and 1 therefore cannot but look upon the name of 'water-vascular ' apparatus as a singularly inappropriate appellation for this system of vessels .
" Other very peculiar transverse vessels exist in the deep integumental layer of Ascaris megalocepehala and A. lunzbricoides , mostly running in pairs from median line to median line , and , strangely enough , being about twice as numerous on the right as on the left side of the body .
The author believes that in the Nematoids but little provision exists for the oxidating portion of the process of respiration , and thinks that this deficiency may be compensated by a greatly increased activity of glandular eliminating organs .
Considering the conditions under whose influence so many of the parasitic forms pass their existence , we can easily imagine that the presence of any organs for effecting an oxidation of their tissues would not only be useless , but actually baneful .
Glandular organs exist in the greatest abundance in all Nematoids , and many of these are excretory organs .
In those species in which no modification of the ventral excretory apparatus is met with , the author has found a very large number of channels running through the chitinous portion of the integument , so as to bring its deep cellular layer in communication with the exterior .
These pores are , he believes , complementary respiratory organs , and their development is always in an inverse proportion to that of the other excretory organs .
Thus amongst the free Nematoids he has found them most numerous in Dorylaimus stagnalis and Leptosomatumfiguratum-species in which the ventral excretory apparatus is entirely absent .
The same arrangement is met with in the Trichocephali and Trichosomata , in which these integumental channels attain their maximum development .
The gradually widening longitudinal band long known to exist in the Trichocephali is due to the presence of thousands of these channels in connexion with a glandular development of the deep integumental layer beneath .
Many interesting facts are brought forward concerning the " tenacity of life " of some of the free Nematoids , and their power of recovery after prolonged periods of desiccation .
This has been long known as one of the characteristics of Tylenchus tritici* , but the author has found it common only to the species of four land and freshwater genera , Tylenchus , Plectus , Aphelenchus , and Cephalobus .
The remainder of the free Nematoids are remarkably frail , and incapable of recovering even after the shortest periods of desiccation .
In the last section , on " The zoological position and affinities of the Nematoids , " the author enters fully into what he believes to be the points of resemblance between these animals and the Echinoderms .
The strongest evidence is , he thinks , to be found in the fact of the very close resemblance between the nervous systems of these animals , differing notably as it does at the same time from what we find in the Scolecida or Annelida .
Then the integumental pores which he has now discovered in so many Nematoids can , he thinks , be paralleled only by the ambulacral and other pores met with in the Echinoderms .
Great similarities in the distribution of these pores may also be observed in the two groups .
The Nematoids present no trace of segmentation or lateral appendages to their bodies , but traces of a radiate structure do exist .
Their various parts and organs exhibit a quadrate mixed with a ternate type of development .
He looks upon the order Nematoidea as as aberrant division of the class Echinodermata , which at the same time tends to connect this class in the most interesting manner with the Scolecida-since , although in the points above mentioned they display their affinities to the Echinoderms , still , as regards the structure and different modifications of the ventral excretory apparatus , they agree more closely with the Trematoda or flukes .

