A paper was read , entitled " On a Function of the Red Corpuscles of the Blood , and on the Process of Arterialization .
" By George Owen Rees , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The author states that he was first led to the new theory he has formed for the explanation of the chemical phenomena of respiration , and more especially of the change in the colour of the blood which occurs in that process , by having observed that a garlic odour , similar to that evolved from phosphorus , was produced by agitating in distilled water the clot obtained from some specimens of venous blood .
His attention was consequently directed to the investigation of the state in which the phosphorus exists in the blood ; and the result of that investigation was the theory , of which the following is a succinct outline .
The venous corpuscles are known to contain fat in combination with phosphorus .
This compound ingredient of the corpuscles , on coming into contact with atmospheric oxygen during the respiratory act , is consumed , and combining with that oxygen , forms the carbonic acid and water which are expired , and also phosphoric acid , which , uniting with the alkali of the liquor sanguinis , forms a tribasic phosphate of soda .
Tlhis salt , like many others , acts upon hemmatosine in such a manner as to produce the well-known bright arterial tint .
The analyses which the author has performed in order to test the correctness of this theory were made upon the blood , both of the veins and of the arteries of the same animal ; and also upon separated portions of the same venous blood ; one of which portions had been artificially arterialized by having been brought into contact with air , while the other portion had not been so exposed .
These comparative experiments showed that arterial blood , both when obtained from the vessels and when artificially produced , contains in its serum a larger proportion of tribasic phosphate of soda than that obtained from the veins .
The venous corpuscles , as they are contained in the clot , yield a fatty matter combined with phosphorus ; while those from arterial blood yield a fat , the ashes of which manifest an alkaline reaction .
Thus the venous corpuscles are shown to be acted upon both by respiration andyby the artificial arterialization of the blood , in such a manner as to lead to the formation of tribasic phosphate of soda at the expense of the phosphorus they contain .
No exact quantitative analyses were attempted by the author , the comparative experiments having been performed on small portions only of serum ( from 25 to 40 grains ) ; sufficiently large , however , to furnish satisfactory evidence of the actual presence of the phosphate in arterial blood , and also in those portions of venous blood which had been arterialized out of the body ; while no such indications were obtained from similar portions of the blood contained in the veins .
At the conclusion of the paper , the author notices the experiments of Enderlin , in which no alkaline carbonate could be detected in the ashes of blood ; and shows that this is the natural consequence of the phosphates of the clot being oxidized during combustion , and thus supplying a quantity of phosphoric acid sufficient to decompose completely the alkaline carbonate produced by the incineration of the lactate and albuminate of the serum .
Most specimens of serum , even as obtained from arterial blood , yield an alkaline carbonate when incinerated ; and this is always the case with the serum of venous blood .
The author , therefore , thinks himself warranted in regarding the conclusion founded on Enderlin 's experiments , that the blood contains no lactate , as being erroneous .

