]\gt ; 1878 .
] Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Major-General H. Clerk and Dr. G. Johnson were , with the consent the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having becll collected , the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society .
John Gilbert Baker , F.L.S. John Jackson , M.D. Francis Maitland Balfour , M.A. Lord Lindsay , P.R.A.S. Rev. Thomas George Bonney , M.A. Samuel Roberts , M.A. Prof. James Henry Cotterill , M.A. Edward Albcrt Schafer , M.R.C. S. Sir Walter Elliot , K.C.S.I. Sprengel , Ph. D. Rev. Canon W. Greenwell , M.A. George James Symous .
Thomas Hawksley , C.E. Charles Sissmore Tomes , M.A. John Hopkinson .
M.A. D. Sc. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 20 , 1878 .
Sir HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. William Henry Smith , Mr. John Gilbert Baker , Mr. Francis Maitland Balfour , Prof. James Henry CotteriJl , Sir Walter Elliot , Rev. Canon W. Greenwell , Mr. Thomas Hawksley , Dr. Hopkinson , Mr. Samuel Roberts , Mr. James Symons , and Mr. Charles Sissmore Tomes , were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' Notes on Geology .
No. .
George H. Darwin 's Comments on Note No. II1 By the Rev. HAUGHTON , M.D. Dubl .
, D.C.L. Oxon , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the Univel.sity of Dublin .
Received 1878 .
In the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " " 14th , 1878 , p. Mr. George H. Darwin has published a criticism on my proposed method of finding a limit to the duration of certain geoIogical periods , published in the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society '20th December , 1877 , p. 534 .
448 Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ June 20 , My paper , of 20th December , consisted of two parts : .
A discussion of the rate at which a " " wabble\ldquo ; of the earth 's axis of rotation , caused by a want of coincidence between the axis of figure and the axis of rotation , would be destroyed by the friction of the ooean against its bed .
2nd .
Speculative inferences from the solution of this problem , as to the duration of geological periods , depending on hypothetical geoIogical assumptions as to the method in which Europasia was manufactured .
These assumptions were three in number , and none of them very probable , .
:\mdash ; An instantaneous formation of the continent ; Its formation by means of 69 equal convulsions , with an interval of time between each , sufficient to reduce the radius of the wabble from one mile to five feet ; Its formation , by a number of small shocks , each displacing the axis of figure by such an amount that tidal friction would be able to render the axes of figure and rotation again coincident in the period of a single wabble .
In discussing the two latter hypotheses , I naturally timed my shocks so as to produce the maximum wabble .
For this as sumption I have , of course , no authority ; and I readily admit that any conclusions drawn from the earth 's wabble can have no more value than the probability of the hypothesis we may make as to the method of formation of Hiuropasia .
In general , let AOB , fig. 1 , be a portion of the path described by the axis of the figure , AO be the displacement produced by any single shock , and let APBQ be the circle described by the axis of rotation in the first wabble after the occurrence of the shock .
If the next shock which moves the axis of figure from to occurs when the axis of rotation is at , the wabble will be doubled , and have the radius AB ; but if the second shock be so timed as to 1878 .
] Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
44 occur when the axis of rotation is passing through , the wabble will immediately cease , for the axes of rotation and of figure will coincide .
* If days , the wabble will be doubled if the next shock occurs at an interval denoted by , and will be destroyed if the interval is If the shocks occur at irregular intervals , at the moment of shock the axis of rotation may be anywhere on the circle APBQ , and the mean eflect will be found when the axis is at or , which would be a more probable assumption than that made by me , when I placed the axis always at A. Let us now calculate the mean effect when shocks occurring at unknown intervals take place when the axis of rotation is at or Q. Let denote the radius , then we have\mdash ; Radius of 1st wabble of 2nd , , of 3rd , , of nth wabble If feet ( the least observable wabble ) , , the number of equal shocks required to displace the axis of figure through 69 miles , will be and This number should be substituted for in equation 12 ( Note 543 ) , when we obtain , for the number of years required by tidal fricti , on to destroy the final wabble , 320,380 years .
This , as might be expected , is half the time required to destroy the final wabble , when all the shocks were additive at a maximum and occurred when the axis of rotation was passing through A. Mr. Darwin has discussed at length the case of the axis of figure moving uniformly , and finds that the axis of rotation will move on a cycloid .
I here give an easy geometrical proof of this tbeorem:\mdash ; Let AOB be a portion of the path uniformly described by the axis AB be 69 miles , Europasia might have been manufactured in days , by two equal sLocks .
450 Rev. S. Haughton on Physical Geology .
[ June 20 , of figure ; andlet be the position of the axis of figure at any moment , and the corresponding position of the axis of rotation , then by the conditions of the problem , fig. 2 , varies as the time , The angle , varies as the time .
But the angle yzx is proportional to the arc : therefore Ax varies as arc but they arc supposed to start together from zero , at the point A. Therefore , and the locus of is the common cycloid , whose generating circle is with diameter equal to the axis of the cycloid PO .
If the axis of figure therefore travels uniformly , the axis of rotation will describe a cycloid , and the two axes will coincide every days , at the cusps , and the maximum radius of wabblp will be OP , ths diameter of the circle .
Mr. Darwin , finally , discusses the following problem : * " " I will now suppose that the geological changes begin suddenly from rest and proceed at such a rate that the variations in the position of the principal axis are imperceptible to astronomical observation .
I suppose , therefore , that the extremity of the instantaneous axis is never more than 5 feet distant from the extremity of the principal axis .
Darwin deduces from this that a displacement in the axis of figure , amounting to 69 miles , might be produced in 19,200 years , without ever producing an observable wabble .
My calculation of this problem is as follows:\mdash ; Sincs OP is 5 feet , the base of the cycloid , AB will be , and as this length is described by the axis of figure in half a wabble , we have , if be the number of years required to describe 69 miles , From this I find\mdash ; years .
This result is half that obtained by Mr. Darwin .
My object in publishing the latter part of my paper , was to show that if geologists shall ever be in a position to give us exact information as to the mode of formation of a continent , under certain circumstances , conclusions of value as to geological time might be de.duced from observations made on the wabble of the axis of rotation ; but it is clear that , in the present state of our knowledge , such conclusions must be regarded as hypothetical .
Ante , p. 182 .

