]\gt ; Mr. W. M. Hicks on [ June 19 , .
The Motion of Two Spheres in a Fluid .
M. M.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Commumcated by Professor J. CLERK MAXWELL , F.B.S. Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received May 16 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In the investigation the method of images is followed , and is based on the following lemma .
The " " image\ldquo ; of a source in an infinite fluid in presence of } sphere consists of a source at the inverse point of the former , and a line sink thence to the centre of the sphere .
If the original source be at , the inside source , and the line density of the sink being the radius of the sphere .
For the analogous case of fluid within a sphere we , o.f course , require to have an equal source and sink somewhere within , else there must ensue motion across the boumdary .
In this case the analysis would give an infinite term for a single source , which .
when the quantity of source and sink is zero , disappears .
The image for a source would be as before a source at the inverse point of , and a line sink , thence to infinity .
It is this last which produces the infinite term .
From these lemmas are deduced the images of " " doublets by which are meant the singular points resulting from the coalescence of an equal source and sink whose nitude valies inversely as the distance between them .
It is easily seen that when the axis of a doublet passes through the centre of the sphere , its is a doublet within it , at the inverse of the of nitude - being the of the doublet .
A similar result holds for the image of a doublet within a sphere , whose axis passes through the centrc of the sphere .
The of a doublet whose axis is perpendicular to the line to is not so simple .
It consists as before of a doublet at the point , but besides this there stretches from the inverse point to the centre a negative line doublet of variable density , the line density at a distance , , being - .
The only difference between this and the OP case for an internal doublet is that the line doublet stretches to infinity .
No attempt is made to find the velocity potentials , but them , the kinetic energy of the motion for two spheres is 1879 .
] Motion of Two eres in a expressed in tcrms of the itudes of the doublets also supposed known .
The etic e of the fluid motion is of the form , where ?
denote velocities the lino of centl.es , and perpendiculal ' to it , and it is shown that where is the 1nass of fluid displaced the sphcre , and denotes the sum of all the doublct-m sses within ( due to ullit motion of ( 1 ) line of centres .
A similar holds for , the in this denoting the sscs within ( 1 ) due a unit motion of ( 1 ) rpcndiculnr to the line of centres .
Also , where denotcH tion sidc dlle to a ullit motion of ( 1 ) along the line of ccntres , and summation of all in ( 1 ) due to \ldquo ; morion of ( 2 ) .
expression for , arc de mined rms of of the their is to tIlld .
In cases lucs for the cocfficicnfs ) simplc ; for at the moment when one .
is tric ith the by Stokcs .
motion of hcrcs { of ccllt is ftnd it is shown th hcirclocihcs , of motion is ) Iore .
too is cast lllo}io of ) infinitc fluid ) } plane ) , it that the of clocit ) contact with planc ) cing the densit ) of the sphere .
inally r is considcred the ) fiuid on tory 1 influenco of line of centrcs ; arc riVolt j ) ) ' the cffcct when they ve a spbcre is on rmonic vtion i the line of it at rest .
In first the an the vibrating sphcre 164 Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott on [ June 19 , where is the " " velocity of mean square\ldquo ; of .
When the distance of the spheres is so large that we may neglect twelfth and higher inverse powers of the distance this attraction is , being the of the and free sphere respectively .
this it may be shown that if density of the sphere is greater the fluid it is attracted , whilst if less it will be cted or repelled , according as its distance less or greater than a certain critical distance , which is iven by .
For instance , if , this distance radius of the free sphere .
These ormulae are on the ppoSition that the sphercs are not so close that are too gleat to be neglected , for at contact are infinite .
the sphere is held fast , the mean force require to do so is , which , neglect twelfth powers of of { iuid displaced by the vibrating for example .
for atoms at C. , at a distance four times their l.adius , the force is about ] of displaced one atom , thus while the force indefinitely , the effecve force increases indefinitely .
For two spheres .
through a distance of an iuch 256 times a second , in water , the force is equal to the of milligrams .
VI .
' 1Ii( Power Definition By G. -PIGOTT , ] .
Reccived IIay 2 187 In its general scopc the paper is intcnded to deal difficultics in nlicroscopic rclI , usually found such , for iuStanC as the ] of inutc closely pached spherules , inrr in double oulcaux , or ously aated , diameter ries betwccn to the ) of :an in

