]\gt ; Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. G. F. C. Searle .
[ Mar. 27 , lnents determined by harmonics of any even degree , the " " coefficient of stability\ldquo ; for the displacement symmetrical about the axis is the to chan ge sign , it is clear that hardly any less general constraint ould suffice to produce such a resulk VI .
A Determination of ' ' the Ratio of the ElectromagIletic Unit of Electricity to the ectrostatic Unit By J. J. THOIISON , , F.R.S. , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge , and G. F. C. Peterhouse , Demonstrator in the Cavendish Laboratory , idge .
Received March 12 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments made by one of us in 1883 having givell a value for " " " " considerably smaller than those found in several recen researches on is subject , it was desirable to repeat the experiments .
The method used in 1883 was to find both the electrostatic and the electromagnetic measures of the capacity of a colldenser , the electrostatic measure being calculated from the dimensions of the condenser , and the eIectromagnetic measure by determining a esistance which would produce the same effect as that oduoed by repeated of the enser when placed in one of a .
In the experiments in 1883 the condenser used in determi1ling the electromagnetic measure was not the same as that for which the electrostatic capacity had been calculated , one without a guard ring , the equality of the capacity of this condenser and the guard ring condenser being tested by the method given in Maxwell 's ' rioity and Magnetism , ' vol. 1 , p. 324 .
In repeatino o. experiments we adopted at first the same method as before , using , however , a key of different design for testing the equality of the c , ondensers by Maxwell 's method .
We got very consistent results , practically with those obtained in 1883 .
may mention here , since it has been suggested that the } ) acity of the leads might explain the low value of " " \ldquo ; obtained previousl .
that the leads are allowed for -by the way the comparison between the two condensers is mffie , for the same leads are used in the determina- tion of the electromagnetic measure of the capacity of the auxiliary ondenser and in comparison of the capacity of this condenser with the one with the guard ring , and the capacity of the auxiliary condenser is adjusted until its capacity , plus that of the leads , the capacity of the guard ring condenser ; and in the measurements it is the capacity of the auxiliary oondenser , plus that of its leads , which is found .
1890 .
] Ratio of Unit to Electrostatic .
377 As the use of the auxiliay condenser introduces additional sourccs of error , we endeavoured to determine the the pacity of the ring directly , a ] ) ] ommutator , hich worked both the and condensel ti used where the contacts made sty-les actached to a tuning .
fork ; the results obtained this were not so as , so we replaced the fork by a rotating one driven wfttcr motol oscopic d spcccl to bc measured and .
lVih this emCllt , which WOl.ked perfectly , we got valucs for the electro[letic measure of the city of the ] lebf thosP obtained by the old method .
We then leavotlred to Iind the reason this difference , after a deal of ouble discovered that the experiments which the ality of pacitieH of the ring nud auxilialy condcnsel 's tested the not produce its full effect .
the uard r of the ( lard .
was removed and the ) city of the nxiliary coudenscr made the same , th( two mehods ) ical ults , but tho effect produced by adding the less in the old methol than in the .
We tion that the elfect prodtlced the addition of uard r ) in the old method too small , hilc in the new the and calculated vell together .
As the new method was working as it possesses great advant ( over the nc , inasmuch as we get entirely of the condenser , the commutator is a rotating one , its spoed can be altered with lltuch gl.eater case and accuracy than be with a fork .
we carded the old method and adopted new ) following aro the results obtained } this method:\mdash ; ctrostatic m of the capacity , Electromagnetic Measure .
First Set of Experiments .
' of times the nstr per stcond .
Capacity 443.571 443.298 Meau , ) .378 Ratio of Electromagnetic to Electrostatic Unit .
[ Mar. 27 , Second Sct .
.32 Mean , 443377 .
Third Set .
Mean , 443 527 .
The mean of all the observations The means of the observations for different speeds are given in th following table :\mdash ; Number of times the ndenser is rged per second .
Capacity These agree very well together , the greatest difference being about one part in 1,000 .
Taking as the electromagnetic measure of the capacity , the value of " " \ldquo ; is

