" Some Remarks on the difficulty of distinguishing certain genera of Shells j and on some Anomalies observed in the Habitations of certain species of Mollusca .
" By John Edward Gray , Esq. , F.R.S. In opposition to the opinion of those geologists who consider that all shells of the same form and character have been inhabited by one genus of animals 3 that all the species of a genus live in similar situa ?
tions 3 and that all the species of fossil shells , appearing from their character to belong to some recent genus , have been formed by animals which in their living state had the same habits as the most commonly observed species of that genus , ?
the author proposes to show , first , that shells having the appearance of belonging to the same natural genus are sometimes inhabited by very different animals 3 and , secondly , that some species of shcll-bearing molluscous animals live in different situations from the majority of the species of the genus to which they belong , or even have the faculty of living in several different si ?
tuations .
Thus , although the animals inhabiting the shells belonging to the genera Patella and Lottia are extremely dissimilar in many essential features of their organization , the shells they form cannot be distinguished from one another by any known character .
In other instances , when the animals are very different , the distinctive characters of the respective shells belonging to them are so slight as to be insufficient for the purpose of classing them under separate spe ?
cies 5 and this difficulty of discrimination must be much increased in the cases of fossil shells , especially of those which have no strictly analogous forms among recent shells .
In support of the position advanced in the second part of the paper , namely , that numerous exceptions occur to the identity of habitation among all the species of the same genus of conchiferous Mollusca , the author adduces examples : Ist , where the species of a genus are found in more than one situation , as on land , in fresh and in salt water ; 2ndly , where one or more species of a genus , the species of which generally live in fresh water , are found in salt or in saltish water 5 3rdly , where one or more species of a genus , which is generally found in the sea , are , on the contrary , found in fresh water $ and , 4thly , where the same species of shell is found both in salt and in fresh water .

