Air , with Artificial Reproduction the Blue Sky .
45.9 of the sky , illustrating very directly the theory that attributes the blue of 3 the sky to scattering by the molecules of air.* ( 4 ) The scattered light is almost completely polarised .
[ Note added April 19 , 1918.\#151 ; In examining the literature , I regret that I overlooked the importance of a paper by Cabannes ( 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 160 , p. 62 , January 11 , 1915 ) , though I had consulted a somewhat meagre abstract of it .
He detected the scattering by pure air , and made approximate measurements of its amount .
This paper has , however , been allowed to stand unaltered , as the method of treatment is independent , and several important points , such as the polarisation of the scattered light and the effect of different gases , are not mentioned by Cabannes .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
\#166 ; 1 .
Beam in dust-free air viewed transversely .
Ultra-violet filter .
The oval outline is light diffused by walls of vessel .
The beam is seen passing across this oval .
2 .
Similar conditions , except that a yellow filter is substituted .
Beam very much fainter relative to light diffused by walls of vessel .
3 .
Spectrum of light from mercury lamp scattered by dust-free air and showing ultraviolet lines 2536 and 2654 , but not the yellow and green lines .
4 .
Spectrum of mercury lamp direct , showing yellow line 5890 and green line 5460 , but not the far ultra-violet lines .
1 5 .
Beam in pure air through a double image prism .
Vibrations in upper image vertical , in lower horizontal .
The beam is invisible in the lower image , showing that polarisation of the scattered light is nearly complete .
6 .
Similar photograph with dusty air .
The beams are very strong , and comparable in intensity .
* Tyndall obtained the blue by means of fine-grained fogs , precipitated from organic vapours .
This was a valuable contribution , but his fogs were of course both chemically and physically very different from dust-free air .
\#151 ; \#151 ; ;----------------------r The Formation of Nitrites from Nitrates in Aqueous Solution the Action of Sunlight , and the Assimilation of the Nitrites by Green Leaves in Sunlight .
By Benjamin Moore , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. --------\#151 ; Action of Light Rays on Organic , and the Photosynthesis of Organic from Inorganic in Presence of Inorganic Colloids .
By Benjamin Moore , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and T. A. Webster .
[ These papers are published in Series B , No. 627 ; June 1 , 1918 .
] 2 o VOL. XCIV.\#151 ; A.

