PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
December 18 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Secular Changes in the Elements of the Orbit of a Satellite revolving about a Tidally Distorted Planet .
" By G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) This memoir is a continuation of four previous papers on similar subjects.* As the investigation is entirely analytical , and is rather long and complicated , it seems useless to attempt a detailed abstract , and I shall therefore confine myself to giving an outline of the results , and a few remarks on the method employed .
I also here partially replace the analytical treatment of the paper itself by general reasoning , so as to give some idea of the physical causes which underlie the definite results of analysis .
These general considerations are not , however , i * 1 .
" On the Bodily Tides of Viscous and Semi-elastic Spheroids , and on the Ocean Tides upon a Yielding Nucleus .
" 2 .
" On the Precession of a Viscous Spheroid , and on the Remote History of the Earth .
" 3 .
" On Problems connected with the Tides of a Viscous Spheroid .
" These three will appear in the " Phil. Trans. " for 1879 .
4 .
" The Determination of the Secular Effects of Tidal Friction by a Graphical Method .
" " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxix , 1879 .
VOL. XXX .
B Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ Dec. 18 , strictly appropriate to an abstract , since they do not occur in the paper , and merely serve as a rough substitute for analysis .
In this and the previous papers it is supposed that tides are raised in a planet by its satellites , and the problem is to determine the various effects which result from the friction of those tides .
The hypothesis generally adopted in these papers is that the planet is a viscous body , and that the tides are a bodily distortion of the whole mass of the planet , but nearly all the results would also follow from the friction of oceanic tides upon a rigid nucleus .
The investigation is principally directed towards the case of the earth , sun , and moon , and the phraseology of the paper is taken from our own planet and satellite ; but the methods may be extended to the other planets .
The subject will be most easily explained by inverting the order of the paper , and by beginning with the sketch of the results .
Sketch of Results .
A.t the present time the moon revolves round the earth in 27*3 days .
The orbit has an eccentricity of fand is inclined at an angle of 5 ' 9 ' to a certain plane , which is said to be " proper to the orbit .
" This proper plane is inclined to the ecliptic at an angle of about 8 " , and intersects the ecliptic in the equinoctial line ; it lies on the same side of the ecliptic as the earth 's equator .
In this statement the " periodic inequalities " of the moon 's motion are neglected .
In this and the previous papers it is proved that frictional tides in the earth are causing , and must have caused , changes in the configuration of the system .
The changes in the past may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The lunar period must have been shorter in the past , and may be traced back from the present 27'3 days , until initially the moon revolved round the earth in from 2 to 4 hours .
2 .
The inclination of the orbit to the proper plane must have been larger in the past , and may be traced back from the present 5 ' 9 ' until it was 6 ' or 7 ' .
This 6 ' or 7 ' was a maximum inclination , and in the more remote past the inclination was less , and initially was very small , or zero .
3 .
The inclination of the proper plane to the ecliptic must have been greater in the past , and may be traced back from the present 8 " , until it was in very early times about 11 ' 45 ' .
It is possible that initially this inclination was less , and that the 11 ' 45 ' of inclination was a maximum value .
4 .
The eccentricity of the orbit must have been smaller in the past .
Either at one time it had a minimum value , before which it had a 1879 .
] On Secular Changes in the Orbit of a Satellite .
maximum value , and again earlier it was very small , or zero ; or else the maximum value never occurred , and the eccentricity has always been increasing .
The history of the eccentricity depends on the nature of the tides in the earth , but the former of these alternatives seems the more probable .
We will now consider the earth .
At the present time the earth rotates in 24 hours , its equator is inclined at an angle of about 9 " to a plane , which is called in this paper " the proper plane of the earth .
" This proper plane is inclined at an angle of 23 ' 28 ' to the ecliptic , and its intersection with the ecliptic is the equinoctial line .
( In the ordinary mode of statement the proper plane is called the mean equator , and the true equator is described as nutating about the mean equator with a period of 19 years , and an amplitude of 9 .
) It is here proved that the frictional tides in the earth have caused changes , which may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; 5 .
The earth 's period of rotation , or the day , must have been shorter in the past , and it may be traced back from the present value of 24 hours , until initially it was from 2 to 4 hours in length .
It was then identical with the moon 's period of revolution as described in ( 1 ) .
6 .
The inclination of the equator to " the earth 's proper plane , must have been larger in the past , and may be traced back from the present value of 9 " , until it was about 2 ' 45 ' .
This 2 ' 45 ' was a maximum inclination , and in the more remote past the inclination was less , and initially it was very small , or zero .
7 .
The inclination of " the earth 's proper plane " to the ecliptic must have been smaller in the past , and may be traced back from its present value of 23 ' 28 ' , until initially it was 11 ' 45 ' , or perhaps somewhat less .
It was then identical with the proper plane of the lunar orbit ; and this is true whether or not 11 ' 45 ' was a maximum inclination of the lunar proper plane to the ecliptic , as described in ( 1 ) .
The preceding statements may be subject to varieties of detail , according to the nature of the tides raised in the earth , but the above is a summary of what appears to be the most probable course of evolution .
The hypothesis which is suggested as most probable is , that the more recent changes in the system have been principally due to oceanic tidal friction , 'and that the more ancient changes were produced by bodily tidal friction .
These seven statements , when taken together , exhibit the earth and moon initially nearly in contact ; the moon always opposite the same face of the earth , or moving very slowly relatively to the earth 's surface ; the whole system rotating in from 2 to 4 hours , about an axi3 inclined to the normal to the ecliptic at an angle of 11 ' 45 ' , or some4 Mr. Gr .
H. Darwin .
[ Dec. 18 , what less ; and the moon moving in a circular orbit , the plane of which is nearly coincident with the earth 's equator .
This initial configuration suggests that the moon was produced by the rupture , in consequence of rapid rotation or other causes , of a primeval planet , whose mass was made up of the present earth and moon .
The coincidence is noted in the paper , that the shortest period of revolution of a fluid mass of the same mean density as the earth , which is consistent with an ellipsoidal form of equilibrium , is 2 hours 24 minutes ; and that if the moon were to revolve about the earth with this periodic time , the surfaces of the two bodies would be almost in contact with one another .
Tidal friction is a vera causa , and the only postulates of this theory of the evolution of our system are lapse of time , and the non-existence of sufficient diffused matter to materially affect the motions of the moon and earth through space .
The systems of the other planets of the solar system are reviewed from the point of view of this tidal theory of evolution , and it is found that there are many confirmatory circumstances , and none which appear condemnatory .
But as the present investigation only treats of a planet with a single satellite , it necessarily leaves many points untouched .
In relation to this theory , the most interesting points are the satellites of Mars , and the inclinations of the orbits of Jupiter 's satellites to their proper planes .
Notes on the Method of Investigation\#151 ; General Reasoning Substitution for Analytical Treatment .
The following are the titles of the several parts into which the paper is divided:\#151 ; I. The theory of the disturbing function .
II .
Secular changes in the inclination of the orbit of a satellite .
III .
The proper planes of the satellite , and of the planet , and their secular changes .
IY .
Integration for changes of the inclination of the orbit , and of the obliquity of the ecliptic .
Y. Secular changes in the eccentricity of the orbit of a satellite .
YI .
Integration for changes of eccentricity of the orbit .
YII .
Summary and discussion of results .
YIII .
Review of the tidal theory of evolution as applied to the-earth , and the other members of the solar system .
These titles indicate the method of treatment .
The application of the method of the disturbing function to the present problem has certain peculiarities .
The attraction of the tides raised in the planet by a satellite is the cause of the perturbation of the satellite 's motion .
Now the state of tidal disturbance of the1879 .
] On Secular Changes in the Orbit of a Satellite .
planet depends upon the position of the satellite , therefore the elements of the satellite 's orbit will appear in the disturbing function , as representing the state of tidal disturbance in the planet ; but these elements also appear as representing the position of the satellite as a body whose motion is perturbed .
In order to apply the method of the disturbing function they ought only to enter in the latter capacity .
This difficulty is overcome by supposing the earth to have two satellites ; one the tide-raising satellite ( called Diana in the memoir ) , and the other the perturbed satellite or moon .
Then , after the application of the method of the disturbing function , the tide-raising satellite is made identical with the moon ; and thus the effect of the lunar tides on the moon 's motion is determined .
Or else the tideraising satellite is made identical with the sun , so as to find the effect of the solar tides on the moon .
The method of the disturbing function is also applied to determine the perturbations of the earth 's rotation , and a similar artifice has to be used , because the earth has to be treated in two capacities , first as a body in which tides are raised , and secondly , as a body whose rotation is perturbed .
The problem is divided into the two following cases :\#151 ; 1st .
Where the lunar orbit is circular , but inclined to the ecliptic .
2nd .
Where the orbit is elliptic , but coincident with the ecliptic .
The previous paper on " Precession , " dealt with the mean distance of the moon , and with the rotation of the earth and the obliquity of the ecliptic ; therefore , in the present paper the inclination and eccentricity afford the principal topics .
The first of these problems occupies the larger part of the paper .
If the satellite and planet be the only bodies in existence , the problem of the inclination is not very complicated .
The following considerations ( in substitution for the analytical treatment of the paper ) will throw some light on the general effects of tidal friction:\#151 ; Suppose the motions of the planet and of its solitary satellite to be referred to the invariable plane of the system .
The axis of resultant moment of momentum is normal to this plane , and the component rotations are that of the planet 's rotation about its axis of figure , and that of the orbital motion of the planet and satellite round their common centre of inertia ; the axis of this latter rotation is clearly the normal to the satellite 's orbit .
Hence the normal to the orbit , the axis of resultant m. of m. , and the planet 's axis of rotation , must always lie in one plane .
From this it follows that the orbit and the planet 's equator must necessarily have a common node on the invariable plane .
If either of the component rotations alters in amount or direction , a .corresponding change must take place in the other , such as will keep the resultant m. of m. constant in direction and magnitude .
It appears from the previous papers that the effect of tidal friction Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ Dec. 18 , is to increase the distance of the satellite from the planet , and to transfer m. of m. from that of planetary rotation to that of orbital motion .
If then the direction of the planet 's axis of rotation does not change , it follows that the normal to the lunar orbit must approach the axis of resultant m. of m. By drawing a series of parallelograms on the same diameter and keeping one side constant in direction , this may be easily seen to be true .
The above statement is equivalent to saying that the inclination of the satellite 's orbit will decrease .
But this decrease of inclination does not always necessarily take place , for the previous investigations show that another effect of tidal friction may be to increase the obliquity of the planet 's equator to the invariable plane , or in other words to increase the inclination of the planet 's axis to the axis of resultant m. of m. Now if a parallelogram be drawn with a constant diameter , it will easily be seen that by increasing the inclination of one of the sides to the diameter ( and even decreasing its length ) , the inclination of the other side to the diameter may also be increased .
The most favourable case for such a change is when the side whose inclination is increased is nearly as long as the diameter .
From this it follows that the inclination of the satellite 's orbit to the invariable plane may increase , and also that the case when it is most likely to increase is when the m. of m. of planetary rotation is large compared with that of the orbital motion .
The analytical solution of the problem agrees with these results , for it shows that if the viscosity of the planet be small the inclination of the orbit always diminishes , but if the viscosity be large , and if the satellite moves with a short periodic time ( as estimated in rotations of the planet ) , then the inclination of the orbit will increase .
These results serve to give some idea of the physical causes which , according to the memoir , gave rise to the present inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic .
For the analytical investigation shows that the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane ( which replaces the invariable plane when the solar attraction is introduced ) was initially small , that it then increased to a maximum , and finally diminished , and that it is still diminishing .
But the laws above referred to would , by themselves , afford a very unsatisfactory explanation of the inclination of the lunar orbit , because the sun 's attraction was found to be a matter of much importance .
It was stated above , that if the viscosity of the planet be small , the inclination of the orbit of the solitary satellite to the invariable plane will always diminish ; but when solar influence is introduced , the corresponding statement is not true with regard to the inclination of 1879 .
] On Secular Changes in the Orbit of a Satellite .
the lunar orbit to the proper plane , for during one part of the moon's-history , the inclination to the proper plane would have increased , even if the viscosity of the earth had been small .
It does , however , follow , from the analytical investigation , that if the lunar orbit was primitively coincident with the earth 's equator , then the present amount of inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic ( viz. , 5 ' 9 ' ) is not explicable on the hypothesis of small viscosity of the earth , but is explicable if we suppose that the viscosity of the earth has always been large , as it certainly is at present .
The theory which gives the most perfect account of the present amount of inclination of the lunar orbit is , that the more recent changes in the system have been principally due to oceanic tidal friction , and the more ancient principally to bodily tidal friction , with a large degree of viscosity of the earth 's mass .
The presence of the sun rendered it expedient to divide the problem of the inclination into three cases :\#151 ; 1st .
When the solar influence is large , as it is at present .
2nd .
When the solar influence is small , or nil .
This is the case to which the above general considerations apply .
And the third case is intermediate between the first and second cases .
For the third case the theory of the proper planes of the moon and earth had to be investigated , and the problem resolved itself into the determination of the secular changes of the positions of the two proper planes , and of the inclinations of the planes of motion of the two parts of the system to their respective proper planes .
The questions involved in these three cases are , however , so complex that it does not seem advisable to enter on them in this abstract .
The second of the two problems , that of the eccentricity of the orbit , is also treated by the method of the disturbing function .
The result , for a viscous planet , shows that in general the eccentricity of orbit will increase ; but if the obliquity of the planet 's equator be nearly 90 ' , or if the viscosity be so great as to approach perfect rigidity , or if the periodic time of the satellite ( measured in rotations of the planet ) be short , the eccentricity will slowly diminish .
When the viscosity is small the law of variation of eccentricity is very simple , and it appears that if eleven periods of the satellite occupy a longer time than eighteen rotations of the planet , the eccentricity increases , and vice versa .
Hence , in the case of small viscosity , a circular orbit is only dynamically stable if the eleven periods are shorter than the eighteen rotations .
In the history of a single satellite revolving about a planet of small 8 Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ Dec. 18 , viscosity , the periods of rotation and revolution start from identity and end with identity ; hence the eccentricity rises from zero to a maximum , and ultimately decreases to zero again .
It is also proved , that in the history of a^single satellite revolving about a planet of large viscosity , the eccentricity rises very rapidly to a maximum , decreases slowly to a minimum , and then increases again ; but the actual degree of viscosity has an important influence on the results .
The following considerations ( in substitution for the analytical treatment of the paper ) throw some light on the physical causes of these results .
Consider a satellite revolving about a planet in an elliptic orbit , with a periodic time which is long compared with the period of rotation of the planet ; and suppose that frictional tides are .raised in the planet .
The major axis of the tidal spheroid always points in advance of the satellite , and exercises a force on the satellite which tends to accelerate its linear velocity .
When the satellite is in perigee the tides are higher , and this disturbing force is greater than when the satellite is in apogee .
The disturbing force may , therefore , be represented as a constant force , always tending to accelerate the motion of the satellite , and a periodic force which accelerates in perigee and retards in apogee .
The constant force causes a secular increase of the satellite 's mean distance and a retardation of its mean motion .
The accelerating force in perigee causes the satellite to swing out further than it would otherwise have done , so that when it comes round to apogee it is more remote from the planet .
The retarding force in apogee acts exactly inversely , and diminishes the perigeean distance .
Thus , the apogeean distance increases and the perigeean distance diminishes , or in other words , the eccentricity of the orbit increases .
Now consider another case , and suppose the satellite 's periodic time to be identical with that of the planet 's rotation .
Then when the satellite is in perigee it is moving faster than the planet rotates , and when in apogee it is moving slower ; hence at apogee the tides lag , and at perigee they are accelerated .
Now the lagging apogeean tides give rise to an accelerating force on the satellite , and increase the perigeean distance , whilst the accelerated perigeean tides give rise to a retarding force , and decrease the apogeean distance .
Hence in this case the eccentricity of the orbit will diminish .
It follows from these two results that there must be some intermediate periodic time of the satellite , for which the eccentricity does not tend to vary.* * The substance of the preceding general explanation was suggested to me in con1879 .
] On Secular Changes in the Orbit of a Satellite .
But the preceding general explanations are in reality somewhat less satisfactory than they seem , because they do not make clear the existence of certain antagonistic influences .
Imagine a satellite revolving about a planet , and subject to a con-^ .
stant accelerating force , which we saw above would result from tidal reaction .
In a circular orbit a constant tangential force makes the satellite 's distance increase , but the larger the orbit the less does the given force increase the mean distance .
Now the satellite , moving in the eccentric orbit , is in the apogeean part of its orbit like a satellite moving in a eircular orbit at a certain mean distance , but in the perigeean part of the orbit it is like a satellite moving in a circular orbit but at a smaller mean distance ; in both parts of the orbit it is subject to the same tangential force .
Then the distance at the perigeean part of the orbit increases more rapidly than the distance at the apogeean part .
Hence the constant tangential force on the satellite in the eccentric orbit will make the eccentricity diminish .
It is not clear from the preceding general explanation , when this cause for decreasing eccentricity will be less important than the previous cause for increasing eccentricity .
The disturbing causes which tend to make the eccentricity diminish are ( i ) the principal semi-diurnal tide , ( ii ) the " faster elliptic semidiurnal tide , " ( iii ) the " elliptic monthly tide .
" The increase of eccentricity depends entirely on ( iv ) the " slower elliptic semi-diurnal tide .
" If the pei'iodic time of the satellite be long , as measured in rotations of the planet , the importance of the tides ( i ) , ( ii ) , and ( iv ) are as the numbers 4 , 1 , and 49 respectively , and the importance of ( iii ) is very small ; if the satellite were to move faster , the importance of ( iv ) would decrease , and that of ( i ) , ( ii ) , and ( iii ) would increase .
In the outline of results at the beginning of the abstract , it was stated that the periodic times of revolution and rotation of the moon and earth might be traced back to a common period of from 2 to 4 hours .
In the paper on " Precession " the common pex*iod was found to be a little over 5 hours in length ; but that result was avowedly based on a partial neglect of the sun 's attraction .
In this memoir certain further considerations are adduced , which show that , while the general principle remains intact , yet the common period of revolution of the earth and moon must initially have been shorter than 5 hours to an amount , which is uncertain but is probably large .
The period of from 2 to 4 hours is here assigned , because it is mechanically impossible for the moon to revolve about the earth in less than 2 hours , and it is uncertain how the rupture of the primeval planet took place .
versation by Sir William Thomson , when I mentioned to him the results at which I had arrived .
10 Prof* J. Tyndall on [ Dec. 18 , It is hardly possible that such general reasoning , as has been above applied to the two problems of the present paper , could ever have led to a discovery of the laws of change of the system .
This kind of consideration is , however , of some interest as throwing light on the definite results already attained by the accurate methods of analysis .
II .
" On Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1879 .
Two years ago , Dr. Hofmann drew my attention to a forthcoming paper by Professor Buff , to which he obviously and naturally attached considerable importance .
The paper appeared in the " Philosophical Magazine " for December , 1877 .
Being much occupied at the time with other matters , I merely glanced at its conclusions , and then laid it aside until I should be able to read it carefully , and , if necessary , to examine it experimentally .
Bast summer , I , for the first time , read the paper through , and I have recently , more than once , repeated its perusal\#151 ; reflecting on its methods and conclusions , to the best of my ability , wherever they appeared dark to me .
The principal result of the paper is , that a stratum of dry air , 45 millims. thick , " absorbs from 50 to 60 per cent , of the rays of heat which it receives from a source heated to the temperature of boiling water .
" The experiments whereby I sought to show the-absorption of radiant heat , by a stratum of dry air more than thirty times the thickness of that employed by Professor Buff , to be sensibly nil , are , at the same time , pronounced " unreliable .
" I once ventured te express the opinion that 10 per cent , of the-radiation from the earth is absorbed by the aqueous vapour contained in the first 10 feet of air .
The late Professor Magnus urged against me at the time , that were so much heat lodged in so thin a stratum , the deposition of dew would be impossible .
Urged against the conclusion that not 10 per cent. , but 60 per cent , of the earth 's radiation is absorbed , not within 120 inches , but within 2 inches of the earth 's surface , the argument of Professor Magnus would have serious force .
Under the covering assigned to it by Professor Buff , our planet ought never to suffer from rapid nocturnal chill .
Professor Buff 's intention , at starting , was to investigate the conduction of heat by gases , and he employed for this purpose an apparatus similar to that of Professor Magnus , the dangers attending the use of which I have frequently pointed out .
A glass cylinder , , with its lower edge ground level , was mounted on the plate of an air-pump .
Cemented on to the open top of the cylinder was a brass vessel with a polished horizontal bottom , which was heated by the-

