4 .
" Memoir of the case of a gentleman born blind , and success ?
fully operated upon in the eighteenth year of his age ; with Physio ?
logical Observations and Experiments .
" By J. C. August Franz , M.D. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Sir Benjamin C. Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. The young gentleman who is the subject of this memoir had been affected from birth with strabismus of both eyes ; the right eye was amaurotic , and the left deprived of sight by the opacity both of the crystalline lens and of its capsule .
At the age of seventeen , an ope ?
ration for the removal of the cataract of the left eye was performed by the author with complete success .
On opening the eye for the first time , on the third day after the operation , the patient described his visual perception as being that of an extensive field of light , in which everything appeared dull , confused , and in motion , and in which no object was distinguishable .
On repeating the experiment two days afterwards , he described what he saw as a number of opake watery spheres , which moved with the movements of the eye , but when the eye was at rest remained stationary , and their margins partially covering one another .
Two days after this the same phenomena were observed , but the spheres were less opake and some ?
what transparent ; their movements were more steady , and they appeared to cover each other more than before .
He was now for the first time capable , as he said , of looking through these spheres , and of perceiving a difference , but merely a difference , in the surround ?
ing objects .
The appearance of spheres diminished daily ; they be ?
came smaller , clearer , and more pellucid , allowed objects to be seen more distinctly , and disappeared entirely after two weeks .
As soon as the sensibility of the retina had so far diminished as to allow the patient to view objects deliberately without pain , ribands differently coloured were presented to his eye .
These different colours he could recognize , with the exception of yellow and green , which he fre ?
quently confounded when apart , but could distinguish when both were before him at the same time .
Of all colours , gray produced the most grateful sensation : red , orange and yellow , though they excited pain , were not in themselves disagreeable ; while the effect of violet and of brown was exactly the reverse , being very disagreeable .
, though not painful .
Brown he called an ugly colour : black produced subjective colours ; and white gave rise to a profusion of muscce volitantes .
When geometrical figures of different kinds were offered to his view , he succeeded in pointing them out correctly , although he never moved his hand directly and decidedly , but always as if feeling with the greatest caution .
When a cube and a sphere were presented to him , after examining these bodies with great attention , he said that he saw a quadrangular and a circular figure , and after further consideration described the one as being a square , and the other a disc , but confessed that he had not been able to form these ideas until he perceived a sensation of what he saw in the points of his fingers , as if he really touched the objects .
Subsequent experiments showed that he could not discriminate a solid body from a plane surface of similar shape ; thus a pyramid placed before him , with one of its sides towards his eye , appeared as a plane triangle .
Two months after the above-mentioned operation , another was performed on both eyes , for the cure of the congenital strabismus , by the division of the tendons of the recti interni muscles , which produced a very beneficial effect on the vision of the left eye ; and even the right eye , which had been amaurotic , gained some power of per ?
ceiving light , and , from being atrophied , became more prominent , Still it was only by slow degrees that the power of recognizing the true forms , magnitudes , and situations of external objects was acquired .
In course of time , the eye gained greater power of converging the rays of light , as was shown by the continually increasing capacity of distinct vision by the aid of spectacles of given powers .

