]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. The Influence of Stress Strain the Actio of Physical Forces .
HERBERT TOMLINSON , Professor W. GRYLLS ADAMS , M.A. , F.R. Received , 1881 .
ORIGIN AND PURPOSE THE MORE than six years ago , whilst collecting together the results of the most trustworthy measurements of the various physical constants , with a view of establishing certain relationships which I conceived to exist between them , I was much struck with the discrepancies which exist , not only between the observations of different experimenters , but also frequently between those of the same individual .
Many of these discrepancies , no doubt , arise from differences in the purity of the substances employed ; but , when all due allowance has been made for such a cause , there still exists a large margin , which can only be accounted for by assuming that altelation of molecular aggregation must modify always , and in cases ably , the action of physical forces .
This assumption has been already abundantly justified by the experimental researches of sevel.al eminent philosophers in every part of the * In conducting these investigations I have been aided by a grant from the Government Research Fund of f4000 .
For this assistance , which has and will be of the greatest service to me , I here return my grateful thanks .
I feel myself also under considerable obligations to Sir rsoN , whose valuable paper on ' The Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals \ldquo ; has really formed the ground-work of this memoir .
The drawings have for the most part been carefully executed by Mr. J. E. JORDAN , of Mining Record Office ; and for the intelligent carrying out of the various details of the apparatus I am indebted to Mr. KIESER , of ELLIOTT Bros. , and to Mr. , the Curator of the Musenm at King 's College , London .
I [ .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE oF domain of physical science ; but , though mnch has been done , very more remains to be done , a wide field lies open before us which fail to richly reward the patient explorer .
I write patient explorer advisedly , because , many , any difference of molecular disposition which we effect with the means at our disposal , produces only a very inute alteration in that particular physical quality which we may be examining , and an alteration which we can only hope to measure accurately by the exercise of a large amount of pelseverance and conscientious labour .
But whether the effect to be observed be large or small , there no doubt that further investigations of the kind here indicated must be made ere we can gain a true insight into the nature of the action of physical forces or mto any relationships which may exist between them .
proposed to myself , therefore , to examine as far as possible each of the various physical properties of one and the same specimen of different kinds of matter ; and , further , to investigate the alterations which can be produced in these properties by stress and strain ; being convinced that , by so doing , much light would be thrown on such subjects as electrical conduction , magnetic induction , thermal conduction and expansion , thermo-electricity , specific heat and elasticity .
The words " " stress\ldquo ; and " " strain\ldquo ; are here used their widest sense as intending to denote respectively the equilibrating application of physical force , and the definite alteration of form or dimensions experienced thereby by the matter acted on by the force .
In furtheronce of the above-mentioned objects I procured some 60 feet of wire made of each of the various metals in common use , and also of the rarer metals , silver and platinum , and of the alloy platinum-silver , the three last in a state of chemical purity , and proceeded to determine one after the other the various physical constants of each .
In consequence of the extensive scope of these researches , several of the valious parts into which the paper is divided are far from being as complete as I could wish , and hope at some future period to make them ; but I venture to present them as they are to the Society , as tending to show still further than has hitherto been done the " " correlation of the physical forces and the value of this mode of investigation wherein one experiment immediately suggests several others .
PART I.\mdash ; MODULI OF ELASTICITY .
YOUNG'S MODULUS Description of arabtlS .
The values of " " YOUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; for the various metals were determined by a method devised by Sir W. THOMSON .
Wires of the same material and diameter are suspended in pairs about 1 inch apart from each other , and are attached by one * 'Brit .
Encyc Art .
: " " Elasticity p. 24 .
Proc Roy .
Soc. , vol. xxix .
, p. 221 .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
extremity of each to the same support , the other extremities being fastened in the one case to a scale-pan , and in the other to the centre of a bar of wood or metal carrying constant equal weights at each end ; the latter wire is provided with a scale , and the former with an index of some sort which , being level with and close to the scale , serves to measure any alteration of length produced by weights placed in the pan .
By this simple and ingenious arrangement , any errors which might otherwise result from a slight yielding of the , or from changes of tempGrature , are avoided .
In my own particular experiments , the length of each wire between the support , which consisted of a vice firmly screwed into a stout wooden plank , and the scale and index was about 30 feet .
To the extremities of the metal bar ( fig. 1 , A B ) , which was supported by one of the pair of wires , were attached two weights , each equal , in most cases , to one-fourth of the breaking-weight of the wire .
To this wire was clamped by two screws a silvered metal scale ( fig. 2 , S ) , divided into half-millimetres .
To the other wire was ] ) in the same manner a yernier , V , reading to of a millimetre .
This vernier was forked ( fig. 3 ) , so that , though capable of free up-and-down motion , it could not readily be dislodged sideways .
By means of a compound microscope , an alteration oflength of the wire equal of a millimetre could readily be estimated .
Fig. 1 .
and S. One.tenth size .
Scale and nier , foll size .
Mode of experimenting .
In the case of the harder wires the one to be tested was subjected for several days to the stress produced by a weight -fourths of the ; the other wire , which may be called the comparison-wire , in the meantime load equal one- half of the breaking-weight .
During this time relative positions of the scale and vernier were viewed from day to day ; and when there seemed to be no alteration of these positions , the wire sustaining the heavier load was relieved from stress and to rest for a period of from one to days .
Welghts were then very carefully put on to or removed from the pan attached to this wlre , and the changes thereby produced in the length determined , the wire having in the meantime been permanently loaded to a sufficient extent to keep it quite straight .
The softer metals\mdash ; lead , tin , and even zinc and aluminium\mdash ; were subjecbed to stresses much less in proportion to their tenacities than those used with the other metals .
In their case each of the pair of wires was elongated permanently about 10 per cent. by weights , half the weight was then removed from the comparison-wire , and the two allowed to rest for four or five days .
After this interval , the other wire was entirely relieved from stress , and finally was permanently ]oaded with a weight equal to that on the comparison-wire .
As with the harder metals , the real testing did not begin till time wrought no appreciable change in the relative lengths of the two wires .
Reasons for the above precautions .
In the case of all the substances employed very great care was taken with the determinations , which often numbered more than one hundred for each of two or more different weights , and it was noticed after the experiments had been carried on for some time that the results obtained on different days frequently varied to a greater extent than could be accounted for by mere errors of observation .
At first it was suspected that , in spite of the mode of suspension , a slight yielding of the upper support might be the cause of these discrepancies .
Two additional wires were therefore suspended to this same support and loaded alternately with weights of .
so as to tend to turn it about axes , respectively parallel and perpendicular to the line joining the points of attachment of the first two wires .
Not the slighest effect , however , could be detected on the relative positions of the scale and vernier .
The latter were then both shifted several time to parts of the wires a few inches above or below their previous positions to ascertain if any sticking between them could be observed\mdash ; though in all cases care had been previously taken to adjust them so that their planes were parallel to that of the wires .
But again these alterations did not seem to affect the results .
The wires were now taken down and examined in case there might have *Several methods were for loading and unloading ; amongst other the stress was applied by measured amounts of water to flow slowly into a large but comparatively light pail attached to the wire instead of the scale-pan , the removal of the stress being accomplished by suffering the water to pass out through a piece of caoutchouc tubing attached to an orifice at the bottom of the pail , and which during the process of loading was hitched up by the side of the pail .
I found , however , that quite as good results could be obtained by putting on the weights by small amounts at a time by hand ; a little practice , as far \amp ; s my experience goes , enables the experimenter , especially if a support be provided for the elbow , to load or unload without causing any appreciable shock .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
been some slight slip of their ends through the vice .
No sign , however , of anything of the kind .
could be detected , and on re-suspending and again testing them almost exactly the same results were obtained .
Finally , the permanent loading was gradually increased in amount to determine if any error had arisen from the wires not having been sufficiently straight .
It was hardly expected that this would prove to be the case , as before any of these trials had taken place the wires had been previously loaded for at least 24 hours to such an extent as to cause considerable permanent elongd)tion .
Nor indeed could any appreciable change in the measurements be detected until the weights used were such as to produce When this happened , however , there was evidently an apparent alteration of elasticity .
A reference to the notes made on previous occasions then revealed the fact that whenever the above-mentioned a dongation produced .
A fresh series of experiments was therefore begun , which ended in the discovery of the following 1 .
In the case of a wire which has suffered permanent extension the temporary elongation which can be produced by any load becomes less as the interval between the period of permanent extension and that of applying the load becomes greater .
* 2 .
This increase of elasticity is greater in proportion for great loads than for small ones .
3 .
The increase of elasticity takes place whether the wire is allowed to remain loaded or unloaded between the period of permanent extension and that of the testing for the elasticity .
4 .
The rate of increase of the elasticity varies considerably with different ] ; with some the maximum elasticity is apparently attained in a few minntes , and with others not till some , is have elapsed\mdash ; iron and steel are in this last respect very remarkable .
5 .
The elasticity can also be increased by heavily loading and unloading times , the rate of increase diminishing with each loading unloading .
6 .
A departure from " " HOOKE'S law\ldquo ; more or less decided always attends recent permanent extension , even when the loads employed to test the e]asticity do not exceed one-tenth of the breaking-weight .
7 .
This departure is diminished very noticeably in the case of iron , and much less so with the other metals by allowing the wire to rest for some time either loaded or unloaded ; it is also diminished by repeated loading and unloading .
* Since writing the above I have found that the gradual increase of elasticity with time in the case of soft-iron wires has been also noticed by EWING .
Proc. G. WIEDEMANN and WERTHEIM have proved that there is a similar departure from ' HOOKE'S law\ldquo ; in the rigidity of metals when tested by the method of statical torsion .
I shall have occasion in Part III .
to refer further to Professor WIEDEMANN'S valuable researches relative to torsion ) tism : but see WIEDEMANN'S ' Annalen , ' 1879 , vol. .
; Phil. Ma , vol. ix .
, Jan. Feb. , 1880 ; cctl i ' vol. , Nos. 2 , 3 , and 4 ; or vanismus .
' The above statements apply in a greater or less degree to all the metals employed , but it will suffice perhaps to give in illustration some experiments with iron and copper wires .
The pan employed in all these investigations weighed 2 , and , except in one or two instances which will be mentioned , was never detached from the wire .
In the following experiments number will signify an increase , and a number a decrease of length .
In all cases the readings are given in half-millims .
, and the weight of the pan is not included in the estimate of the load .
The following series of experiments was made with an iron wire millim. in diameter:\mdash ; Experiment A weight of 12 kilogs .
was put upon the pan and had the effect of permanently elongating the wire about per cent. The scale and vernier were now fixed to the wires and the following taken:\mdash ; It appears therefore that the first 4 kilogs .
would produce an alteration of the second four of , and the third four of divisions of the scale .
* The numbers are never taken in estimating the mean of the values of the alterations produced by the largest weight , in order to avoid the effect of permanent set .
Scale slightly shifted by accident .
AND STRAIN THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Experiment II .
The same wire having been elongated by traction to the extent of centims. was again tried with ) same weights immediately afterwards .
Taking only the last trials we see that , now , the first 4 kilogs .
produce alteration of , the second of , and the third of III .
The wire was still further lengthened by centims. and the pan .
on the reading of the , scale was .
The pan wss then removed for one minute , and afterwards replaced , scale .
Again the pan was removed for 30 minutes , and replaced , scale .
The trials were then renewed with the same weights as those used in the other experiments .
Taking the results of the last observations we obtain for the first 4 kilogs .
an alteration of , for the second four , and for the third *In this and the following tables the \mdash ; numbers only are taken , because it was always found that after the wire had been entirely relieved from stress a small sub-permanent set was produced by each of the weights when put on for the first time after such a release.8 MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUEcNCE OF STRESS Exper.imentIV .
The wire having been left for two days without weights or was again tested with the pan on .
Here we see that the effect of the first 4 kilogs .
is represented by , the second four by , and the third by As it had been found by preliminary experiment that the density of the was not permanently decreased to any ex.tent which would introduce an appreciable error by supposing it to remain constant , we can easily make the different experiments comparable with each other by assuming that the permanent change of section is proportional to that of the length .
If we do so we arrive at the following results:\mdash ; nitAverage aterationof a *The unit of area is supposed to be that of the section of the wire in I. ; the length tested was the same in all the experiments .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES . ?
the preceding experiments .
It appears from the last table that the temporary elongation produced in an iron wire by a load of given magnitude becomes greater as the permanent elongation becomes greater up to , a certain limit of the latter , which limit seems to depend upon the load used to produce the temporary effect .
When the above-mentioned limit has been reached further permanent elongation begins to increase the elasticity , and this increase , as other experiments have shown , is continued up to the breaking point of the wire .
The increase of elasticity produced by rest , which is very conspicuous when we compare .
III .
and IV .
, is the more remarkable as it is not as was at first supposed would be the case , by any appreciable permanent the latter amounting in the present instance to only millim. out of a length of 8600 , actually not002 per cent. This phenomenon is moreover evidently closely allied with one noted by who has recently discovered that in the case of iron the pel.manent elongation which can be produced by any weight may be very largely diminished by putting on this weight in small quantities at a time with of rest between , and also that the breaking stress may be considerably increased by the same process .
We may assume that the mutual attraction existing between the molecules of a wire will always tend to make them take up such positions as will give a maximum mutual attractive force .
When , therefore , a wire has been permanently stretched , the molecules would immediately take up these positions were it not for coercive force ; this , however , causes delay , so that if the wire were tested shoffiy after the permanent extension has taken place , the elasticity would be found to be less there ) when the molecules have had sufficient time to finally settle themselves .
Nor is it necessary that any appreciable permanent contraction of the wire should attend this increase of elasticity , as the mere change of arrangement of the molecules would suffice for the purpose .
To a similar cause is no doubt also due the increase of portative power which can be produced in a perrnanent magnet by gradually increasing its load .
Another point to be noted is the sub-permanent set which is produced in wires ; this set is greater , according as the load permanently left on the wire is greater , and also increases up to a certain limit with the time during which the stress producing the set is applied : from this it follows that the taken on loading a wire step by step to a certain amount will be different from those taken at the same of stress on unloading .
This fact has already , I believe , been noticed by THOMSON ; but I wish particularly to draw attention to it in the case of iron , I give the results of one out of several experiments made on iron and copper with a view of testing the matter .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. xxix .
, p. 221 .
Experiment Annealed iron wire which had been very heavily loaded and unloaded a great many times on different days previous to this last experiment .
This last experiment shows very clearly that the does not recover itself until all the load has been remoyed .
Also in Experiment IV .
we see that a certain amount of set disappears even with the removal of the comparatively small load of the scalepan .
With most of the other metals the recoyery of elasticity is much less marked after the first hour than is the case with iron .
The following experiments were made with a soft copper wire 81 millim. in diameter and 630 centims. in length:\mdash ; Experiment VI .
The wire was loaded for a few minutes with a weight slightly over 8 kilogs .
, and , on the removal of stress , the following observations were made : A great part of the gradual increase of elasticity here observed is due to loading and unloading , and a similar effect may .
be observed in Experiments II .
and III .
, but AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
part is evidently due to the influence of mere rest ; this is best shown by taking the differences between consecutive alterations for the different times .
It will also be observed that values both here and in the experiments on iron gradually become equal under the influence of rest and loading and unloading .
Cases of aluminium zinc .
With these metals*both the maximum temporary increase of length , caused by putting on , and the recovery on the removal of stress , are attained slowly in comparison with most metals .
An illustration of this is afforded in the next experiment , which was made on an aluminium wire .
Experiment VII .
It must be observed that during the whole of this time the comparison-wire was loaded with a permanent weight equal to that on the wire which was being tcsted , * Probably tin and lead if they had been loaded sufficiently would have also behaved in this manner ; it was impossible , however , to use any but very light weights in determinin their elasticity , as otherwise permanent set would always have been produced .
A weight of 4 kilogs .
was kept permancntly on the scale-pan .
and that the stress thus produced had been acting for several days previous to these trials .
When lesser weights were now used and only the scale-pan left on permanently the maximum alterations took place much more quickly , and the departure from " " HOOKE'S law which had before been very considerable , became comparatively slight .
The modulus was calculated from these last results .
Cases of tin and These metals are remarkable for the manner in which they run down under the of the slightest stress , and also for the persistence of this running down ; in this latter respect they surpass aluminium and zinc .
It was necessary , therefore , to keep them loaded for many days before attempting to determine their elasticity .
The weights also employed for this latter purpose were very small , and , in consequence , the values of the modulus obtained by using them cannot be considered as accurate as those of the other metals ; I believe , however , that they are correct within 2 per cent. LAW We have seen that there is a very appreciable departure from this law shortly after permanent extension has taken place ; but a departure also exists when a long rest has been allowed , both when the wire has in the meantime been heavily weighted and when it has not , even though only moderate loads be employed .
Thus , in the case of a soft copper wire capable of bearing a load of 18 kilogs .
, and which had been heavily loaded and frequently tested during a of three weeks , the following obseryations were made :\mdash ; VIII .
The values here recorded are the means of about 20 observations on each weight made during the last three days of observation , and show small but decided differences .
Again , another piece of copper similar to the bove was treated the same manner , but for a period of six days , and when examined on the last day , with loads up to 12 kilogs .
, gave the following results as the means of seyen trials with each weight:\mdash ; AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Experiment IX .
It is here seen that the alteration per kilogramme rapidly increases when the loads become heavy , and yet in both these last experiments the wire recovered its original length on the emoval of the load .
It is evident , therefore , that in the case of annealed copper the length increases in greater proportion than the load , and this was proved to be the case whether the wire was allowed to rest loaded or unloaded .
Similar results were obtained with annealed platinum , silver , aluminium , platinumsilver , German-silver , and zinc .
With soft iron , however , the case is different if the wire be weighted for some time after permanent extension has taken place .
An examination of Experiment XIIT .
shows that under these circumstances the average alteration decreases up to a certain point as the load increases .
It remains now to considel the case of iron allowed to rest unloaded .
Experiment An annealed iron wire , after having been permanent]y elongated by traction about 8 per cent. , remained unloaded for veral days , and was afterwards tested with weights up to 10 kilogs .
:\mdash ; Here the average alterations of length increase with the load , though not to the same extent as with copper .
In both the last experiments with iron the recovery of the wire after the removal of the stress was so perfect that the zero position of the vernier was not shifted onetenth of a millimetre .
DISCUSSION OF WERTHEIM'SExPERIMENTS ON ELASTICITY The values of " " YOUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; obtained by WERTHEIM by vibratiol ] , longitudinal or transverse , are generally larger than those got by static extension ; and these differences are considerably greater than those which would be produced by the heating and cooling effects of contraction and elongation .
Sir W. THOMSON says that\ldquo ; it is probable that his ( WERTHEIM'S ) moduli , determined by static elongation , are tely accurate ; the discrepancies of those found by vibrations are probably due to of the arrangements carrying out the vibrational method I venture , however , to believe that the main cause of the above-mentioned discrepancies is to be found in WERTHEIM'S mode of proceeding when determining the elasticity by static extension .
The plan adopted by him was to put on a weight , take a reading with the measuring microscope , and , after removing the weight , take a second reading , the difference between these two readings being used in determining a value for the modulus .
The same operations were repeated with greater and greater loads until the wire rwent very considerable permanent extension , and was in many cases broken .
The mean of all the values thus obtained was taken to represent the true one .
Now , if , after considerable extension had taken place , WERTHEIM had repeated his trials with each of the previous weights , he would have obtained appreciably different values , and the general result would have been to give him a greater mean value for the .
Moreover , my experiments have shown , as we have seen , that , even if all precautions be taken , different loads will give different values for the elasticity .
The best way of comparing the methods of static extension and longitudinal vibrations would be to determine , first , the elasticity by the former method with small loads , and then to use the latter method with the same wire under as nearly as possible the same conditions of tension .
I hope at some future time to be able to make further experiments in this direction ; in some few trials with copper , iron , steel , and German-silver I have obtained values for the elasticities by the two methods which accord more nearly with each other than those got by WERTHETM .
In order to ascertain whether the influence of rest\mdash ; which in iron is so marked in increasing the value of ' ' YOUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; as determined from static extension\mdash ; would be equally or at all apparent when longitudinal vibrations are employed , several experiments were made on iron by the latter method , both the siren and APPUNN'S tonometer being employed for the purpose of counting the number of vibrations .
Both these instruments gave very consistent results , and could be depended upon within at least per cent. ; yet no difference could be detected between the note of the wire after recent permanent extension and that after a of 24 hours .
As it was thought that perhaps the act of wire might immediately produce the * Ann. de Chim .
et Phys. , tom .
, 1844 .
'Brit .
Encyc Art .
: ' : Elasticity AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
same effect as continued rest , a fresh pair of iron wires were suspended and tested in the usual manner with the scale and vernier ; but it was ascertained that vibrating a wire under these circumstances did not produce any immediate appreciable effect the elasticity .
It would appear , therefore , that the effect of rest is not felt when the temporary elongations are very small .
PERMANENT ALTERATION OF ELASTICITY PRODUCED BY PERMANENT EXTENSION .
Experiment XI .
The same wire as in Experiment X. was further lengthened by 7 , 15 , 10 and centims. respectively on four separate occasions , and after each elongation the load was removed , and a rest of 24 hours allowed .
After each rest the temporary alteration of length produced by 8 kilogs .
was determined , the vernier after each permanent extension having been shifted to its original position .
These results are the means of several observations in each case , and show that the elasticity of copper is very slightly increased by these particular amounts of permanent extension , when the wire is allowed to rest unloaded .
A similar effect was proved to be produced on copper wire which was kept loaded for some time after permanent extension .
Experiment XII .
A piece of annealed iron wire , 860 celltims .
in length , was ated by traction to the extent of centims. so as to make it perfectly straight , and afterwards allowed to rest unloaded for two days ; a set of experiments was then made which resulted in giying a mean value of half-millims .
the alteration produced by the first 4 kilogs .
, for the second , and 829 for the third , and an average on the whole of for 4 kilogs .
The wire was now further lengthened by ] centims. , the vernier shifted so that the same length of wire as before was under examination , and a rest of two days allowed .
On loading the wire with the same weights as before , an tion of was produced by the first 4 kilogs .
, 8 .
the second , and by the third , an average alteration of for 4 kilogs .
Allowing for the pelmanent diminution of section , the last alteration would correspond to 836 for 4 kilogs .
on a wire of the same section as that previons to the second permanent elongation .
We have , in the case of this wire , therefore , a small but decided diminution of elasticity produced by this amount of permanent extellsion , when the wire is allowed to rest after the extension has taken place .
Experiment XIII .
An annealed iron wire of the same length as the previous one was tested in the same manner , except that after each permanent extension it was loaded with a weight of 20 kilogs .
, and this load was suffered to remain on the wire for 24 hours .
manent extension .
Load interati n of mihims .
on It appears , therefore , that in the case of annealed iron the elasticity is increased by permanent extension if the wire.be allowed to remain heavily loaded for some time after such extension has taken place .
Moreover , it is remarkable that when the wire has been treated in the abovementioned manner the average alteration per unit load as the load * The wire was broken at a point about 3 inches from the scale-pan by this last extension .
The unit area is assumed to be the area of the section of the wire after the last permanent extension ; area was00187 square centim. .
[ Note added April , 1882.\mdash ; It should be stated here that a load of about 6 kilogs .
( not included in the loads given ) was left permanently on the wire .
I have since found by an indirect method ( see Parb II .
) that , if the wire be entirely relieved from stress before beginning to test for the temporary effect of loading , the temporary elongation increases with the first few loads in greater proportion than the latter .
We may say , therefore , that in the case of iron wire which has suffered very considerable permanent extension and afterwards been allowed to rest for some time either unloaded or loaded , the ratio of the temporary elongation to the load producing it first increases with the latter to a certain limit , then diminishes to a second limit , and finally begins to increase again .
If , however , the wire has during the interval of rest been heavily loaded , the first limit is reached more quickly than is the case when the wire has rested unloacled ; so that if , as in this it is necessary to leave even a comparatively small AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
employed for testing increases , whereas with all the other annealed metals similarly treated , exactly the opposite effect is produced .
This peculiarity of iron is no doubt to be attributed to its superior coercive force ; and to the same cause must probably be assigned the difference between the effect of permanent extension on the elasticities of iron and copper when these metals are allowed to rest unloaded after the extension has taken place .
In order to examine still further the effect of leaving a heavy weight on the wire for long periods , 20 kilogs .
were , after the above experiments had been made , left on the wire for one day , and then for two more days .
The average increases kilogs .
after each of these periods , when tested with 20 kilogs .
, were respectively and half-millims .
Therefore the full effect of the loading must have been produced during the five days on which the previous trials had been made .
Finally , it should be observed that during the whole of these last experiments the wire returned to its original length on the removal of the load .
EFFECT OF TORSION COMBINED WITH TRACTION .
The above are the direct experiments which were made of tlJe effect of permanent extension on the value of " " YOUNG'S modulus ; " " but having ascertained indirectly that , at any rate in the case of some metals , permanent extension will , according to its amount , produce either decrease or increase of elasticity , I was induced to make a set of observations in which torsion was combined with longitudinal traction .
Fig. 4 .
Let , fig. 4 represent a portion of the wire the unstrained condition ; and suppose that , the upper end having been fixed , the lower end is twisted in the contrary directio ] ] to the hands of a watch , thus causing the portion A B to be extended along the diagonal A and compressed along the diagonal ; if now a be applied at the lower end , this will cause the wire to twist still further or to untwist , according as the extension produced by the load along A greater or less than that along D. weight permanently on the wire , this weight may exceed that required for the above-mentioned limit .
It is quite possible , also , that if the permanent extension and the heavy Ioading during rest be carried to very great excess , any load however small may exceed the first limit .
] * Electricity and netism , ' CLERK MAXWELL , vol. , p. 86 .
Mode of experimenting .
The wire to be examined passed ough a small hole , , fig. 5 , made in a stout table , and was clamped at its upper extremity into a brass block , , the latter resting on the table and being sufficiently secured by a heavy weight , , placed on the top of it .
Near the lower extremity , which was looped to receive a scale-pan , was clamped a second small bloc.k , , to one end.of which ) was attached a light mirror of the kind Fig. 5 .
employed with reflecting galvanometers ; this mirror , used in connexion with a scale and lamp , enabled the observer to detect very small differences of torsion ; the distance of the scale from the mirror was 1200 scale-divisions , and the length of each wire at the commencement of each experiment was 95 centims. In the following table will be found the results of the experiments made with the different metals , these latter being for the most part pieces of the same wires as had been used in the determinations of " " YOUNG'S modulus but in each case carefully re-annealed .
TABLE I. ( continued)\mdash ; Number of complete turns of permanent torsion produced before the application of the load .
Temporary alteration of torsion produced by the load in terms of divisions of the scale signifies further twist , -untwist on loading .
of remarks on The , given in the various columns represent aroximatel the intervals pproxlmate between the imparting of the permanent liorsion and the testin with the loads whilst with the , below the times are the number of .
with which the wire was weighted during these intervals ; thus .
means that the wire remained unloaded for five minutes after the permanent torsion had been applied , and that the wire was tested 16 hours after the torsion , having in the meantime sustained a load of 12 kilogs .
By unloaded we must understand that the scale-pan weighing 2 kilogs .
remamed on the wlre , except in the cases of lead and tin , when a weight of 05 kilog .
was substituted for that of the pan .
AND Si'RAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FOIICES .
We observe that the annealed metals may be divided into two classes ; that iron , platinum , lead , and zinc , after suffering permanent torsion , twist temporari ] ' on loading , showing that the load produces greater temporary lengthening in the direction in which the torsion had produced extension than it does in the direction of compression .
It seems , however , that if the permanent extensions previous to the loading be carried to excess , the wire will begin to untwist on loading ; thus in we observed that after 260 of permanent torsion the twist produced by loading has begun to diminish and in that , when the wire had been siderably stretched before torsion , after 70 turns the twist is changed to untwist .
Moreoyer , the results in on hard and soft steel , combined with tbose in , clearly show us that whether the distance between the particles be increased by mechanical means or by hardening by the process of heating and suddenly cooling we ultimately arrive at a point where the twist on loading is changed to untwist .
The second class includes the metals , copper , silver , aluminium and tin ; these , like the metals of the first class , at first twist temporarily on loading , but after a comparatively small of permanent torsion has been applied begin to untwist and continue to do so , as far as could be ascertained , until the wires will not bear any further twisting without.instantly breaking ; indeed , the copper in was broken several times , and became so brittle and hard as to snap , like steel that has been heated to a white heat and suddenly cooled , and yet the wire apparently showed no decrease in the amount of untwisting on loading .
It will further be noticed that the average twist or untwist per amme is nearly the same for the different weights employed , but other experiments on metals of the first class showed that when the load became excessive the average twist became less and less , and was finally oonverted into umtwist when the load approached the breaking stress ; and moreover whereas with smaller the effect was in the case of both classes bo cause untwist , with these larger stresses the wire commenced to twist permanently : this latter point is most easily proved with lead or tin , as comparatively small weights are required to break the wires made of these metals .
It may , I think , be fairly concluded from these and the previous experiments , that with all metals the elasticity is diminished by permanent extension carried to certain point ; but beyond this point Analogous results have been obtained by THOMSON with respect to the torsional rigidity of metalsl and as we shall see latter on , the action of all physical forces is * It is perhaps as well to observe here that only the variations of torsion produced by are recorded in the table .
Sir W. THOUSON has already ( Brit. Encyc Art .
: ' Elasticity S 81 ) proved that hard steel wire wntwists on loading , after suffering permanent torsion ; but we see that if the steel be softened it acts like iron and twists on loading .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. , p. 289 , and ' Brit. Encyc Art .
: " " Elasticity S 78 .
apparently affected in a similar manner by stress and strain whether these latter be due to mechanical force , to magnetization , or to change of temperature .
The fluence of rest on the wire , whether the metal is left loaded or unloaded , is also very noticeable in the case of iron , and less but sufficiently so with the other metals ; thus we see in that in the case of iron after 10 turns of permanent torsion the amount of twist for 8 kilogs .
is five minutes after the permanent torsion , 8 divisions , 14 divisions after a rest of half-an-hour , and divisions after a rest of 16 hours .
TORSIONAL RIGIDITY .
The torsional rigidity of the wires was determined by the method of vibrations .
The vibratol.s were similar to those employed by Sir W. THOMSON in his iments on the rigidity and viscosity of metals , namely , thin cylinders of sheet brass , supported by a thin , flat rectangular bar .
The wire to be tested passed perpendicularly through a hole in the middle of the bar , and was there soldered .
The other end of the wire was soldered into a stout iron bar , firmly held in a vice attached to a rigid support .
EFFECTS OF PERMANENT bION AND ELONGATION ON THE MODULUS OF RIGIDJTY .
THOMSON has provedt that the rigidity of a wire is dimimshed both by permanent longitudinal extension and by permanent twist .
As it seemed desirable to ascertain whether rest would restore any of the rigidity thus lost , and also whether the influences of permanent extension and torsion would be greater on vibrations through large arcs than through small ones , a series of experiments was begun of which the following are examples .
Bxperiment XI An iron wire was considerably stretched , and the times of vibration ascertained to be\mdash ; Number oinutes Time oibrationonds .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. , p. 289 .
'Brit .
Encyc Art .
: Elasticity SS 78 , 81 .
The vibrations were genera ] counted in each trial for about 10 minutes , and the times are reckoned from the commencement of each trial .
The initial arc of vibration was in eacb case AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
riment X A copper wire was elongated by 10 per cent. , and when vibrated gave the following results : Experiment XVI .
An iron wire about feet received 50 turns of permanent twist and was then tested :\mdash ; Experiment VII .
A copper wire about feet long received 50 turns of permanent twist and gave the following results:\mdash ; Experiment VlII .
The time of vibration of a copper wire which had suffered no permanent torsion was , when vibrated through a small arc , 6242 seconds , and when started with a twist of three seconds , there being thus a fference of 074 second .
The wire was now subjected to 100 turns of permanent torsion , and in a few minutes * Only 19 vibrations were counted in each trial , so that the amplitude of vibration might not bc diminished too much .
afterwards vibrated .
once in seconds through small arcs , and in whrn started with a twist of three revolutions .
The difference between the two times is now second or twice the former difference .
After a rest of 24 the two times became respectively and 6474 , and the difference second An iron wire , feet in length , was vibrated through different arcs for 30 seconds in each of several trials , and the means of these taken as the time of vibration .
Previous to these trials the wire had received 10 turns of permanent torsion , which had had the effect of diminishing the rigidity .
the wire caused , in this instance , as it does in all cases where the metal has received permanent torsion , a certain amount of untwisting depending upon the amplitude of the arc of vibration .
* Experiment A piano-steel wire was vibrated several times , for about SO seconds each time , through , and the time of vibration was found to dimimsh on each trial until the fourth , when it became constant .
It was then vibrated through smaller and smaller arcs with the following results:\mdash ; * In consequence of this untwisting the vibrations were , in experimonts of this kind , counted from the of the swin , and not , as is usual , from the position of equilibrium .
The elasticity of the wire was perfect for tlJis degree of torsion .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Remarks ) the experiments .
It appears from Experiments .-XVIII .
inclusive ( 1 ) that the loss of idity produced by twisting or stretching a wire beyond the limits of elasticity , is partly diminished by rest ; ( 2 ) that the loss is more sensible with large arcs of vibration than with small ones ; and ( 3 ) that the influence of rest is more apparent in the case of large vibrations than in that of small ones .
Experiment XIX .
shows that continual vibrating through large arcs has a similar effect on the ligidity to that produced on the longitudinal elasticity by heavily loading and unloading , the time of vibration through large arcs being by the former process made less , just as the temporary elongations caused by heavy loads are diminished by the latter .
Finally , Experiment .
shows that in the case of a wire possessing great coercive force , the effect of vibrating through a large arc for several minutes actually makes temporarily the rigidity , as determined from such vibrations , greater than ] determined from smaller vibrations : an effect analogous to that produced by leaving a wire heavily weighted for some time , when , as we have seen , the temporary effect on the length of large loads is less in proportion than of small ones .
We thus see that the ct of permanent torsion on the torsional rigidity is similar in evexy respect to the effect of longitudinal extension on the value of YouNG'S modulus Iron , aluminium , copper , and silver are the only metals which have , as yet , been tested in the above-mentioned manner , and iron , as before , is conspicuous for the large influence on it of continued rest .
In Table II .
will be found embodied the results ined in the case of each substance for the modulus of rigidity and " " YOUNG'S modulus ether with some other data which are further supplemented in Table TII .
* * For observations on the moduli of elasticity of nickel and carbon the ordinary temperature of tno room , and of iron , steel , nickel , and copper at the at C. , see Part II .
TABLE II .
Remarks on Table II .
The determinations of were made in all cases with unstretched pieces of the different wires , and may for the most part be considered as extremely accurate , but in the cases of tin and lead it was found very difficult to obtain good observations on account of the great viscosity of these metals ; indeed , with the former only four vibrations of convenient amplitude could be counted .
Tin , lead , zinc , and placed in the order of their viscosity .
The a1mealed and hard drawn wires having the same numbers attached to them in the tables are not the same pieces but are cut from the same hank .
I should have employed actually the same pieces in the two conditions , had I not wanted them for the purposes mentioned in Part II .
* This metal and copper ( 8 ) I obtained through the kindness of Sir W. THOMSON ; their moduli of elasticity had been carefully determined by T. GRAY , in the Physical Laboratory of Glasgow University .
Iron ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , steel ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and brass ( 2 ) were tested some years ago by myself with the cathetometer .
This alloy was composed of two parts by weight of silver and one of platinum .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The values of were determined very carefully , more so perhaps than was necessal'y .
The specimens used for this purpose had not been stretched , and when in the water were well freed of air bubbles by brushing .
The results are certainly correct to the third decimal place .
The ratio of lateral lineal contraction to longitudinal dilatation was calculated from the formula on the assumption of the wires being isotropic .
It seems evident , however , that the values of thus obtained cannot daim to be even approximately correct when the metal has been rendered very hard by the process of drawing , as was the case with copper ( 1 ) , platinum-silver ( 1 ) , brass ( 1 ) , brass ( 2 ) , and Germansilver ( 2 ) : here we meet with apparently impossible results .
The mean value of for the different substancest employed in the condition , a number closely according with that assigned by POISSON as the value of for each .
The metals copper ( 1 ) , copper ( 2 ) , platinum , aluminium , silver , and platinum-siJver were obtained from Messrs. JOHVSON , MATTHEY , and Co. as chemically pure , and the zinc , lead , and tin wires as being as pure as could be got by the ordinary process of distillation .
OF If denote the value of " " YOUNG'S modulus and the ratio of lateral contraction to longitudinal extension , it can easily be proved that the elasticity of volume , and as in Table II .
is measured in grammes per square centimetre , it 31-2 follows that the increase of volume per unit resulting from a stress of 1-2 1 .
per square centimetre .
In the following table are given the values of the volume elasticity , which will be denoted by , and of the alteration of volume produced by the above stress .
In the same table , in order to complete the information given in Table Ir .
, is recorded the section of each wire in square centimetres ; the section of the harddrawn metals in Table II .
being approximately equal to those given here for the annealed wires .
and TAIT'S Not .
Phil. , p. 521 .
Copper ( 2 ) is not included in this estimate , as I have reason to believe tlJat it was imperfcctlyannealed MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS TABLE III .
on Table III .
There is little to be said with reference to this table except to call attention to the great alteration which takes place in the order of several of the metals , with reference to their elasticity of volume , and that occupied by them in the tables of " " YouNG'S modulus We find , for instance , platinum , which in the latter table stands second on the list of annealed metals , here ranking as venth , whilst the loys , platinum-silver and German-silver , are both higher than iron , the former of the two alloys con- spicuously so .
It would seem , moreover , that either small reliance can be placed on the method of determining the ratio of lateral contraction to linear elongation from observations of the longitudinal elasticity and torsional rigidity , or else that the volume elasticity varies considerably with different specimens of the same metal ; for instance , the mean value for the modulus of bulk elasticity in the case of the two specimens of annealed copper recorded in the last table is , whereas THOMSON gives the corresponding value for copper as PERMANENT ALTERATION OF DENSITY PRODUCED BY LONGITUDINAL TRACTION .
A few experiments were made with a view to determine the alteration of density which can be produced by longitudinal traction .
Two methods were adopted : * Zinc , tin , and lead are , though in the drawn condition , added to this list , as the process of drawing had not hardened them in any degree sufficient to make much difference in either the torsional rigidity or the modulus of elasticity .
'Brit .
Encyc Art .
: ] ] asticity , \ldquo ; Table I. For observations on the alteration of density produced by torsion and , see Part Ir .
AND STRATN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
in the one the wire was lengthened by successive loads put on for three minutes each and then removed ; in the other the wire was stretched by the hand or by the aid of a lever by equal amounts each time until breaking ensued .
The balance used in determining the density was an exceedingly good instrument made for me by OERTLING for the purpose of measuring the coefficients of thermal expansion of the metals by weighing them in water at different temperatures .
It will suffice here to state that it was possible with this instrument to weigh an object in water to of a milligramme .
The air bubbles clinging to the sides of the metals were carefully brushed off , as it was not possible to boil them off , for fear of partially annealing the wires , and the proper corrections were made for temperature and air displaced .
The following experiments serve to illustrate the general nature of the results obtained by the two methods Experiment .
Experiment XXII .
CoppER ( 1 ) .
measures o * Wire brokell .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS xperiment XXIII .
It will be observed that in all cases the ratio of the decrease of specific gravity to the increase of length at first increases to a maximum , then decreases , and again increases largely when the breaking strain has been reached .
In any case , however , the alteratiou of density which can be produced by longitudinal traction is small , and in my own experiments never reached per cent. , though several of the wires were strained to breaking .
WERTHEIM has also obtained similar results .
RELATION BETWEEN MODULI OF ELASTICITY AND INTERMOLECULAR DISTANCE .
If we denote the specific gravity of a substance by , and .
A represent the atomic weight , the intermolecular distance will be proportional to It is natural to suppose that as diminishes the elasticity will increase , and in fact WERTHEIM has that is the case , and moreover that approximately " " YOUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; varies inversely as In the next table wil ] be found the products of and for the annealed metals .
TABLE Iy .
* Wire broke .
Ann. de Chimie , lS44 , tom .
Ibid. AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The mean values of and are respectively and , and as in WERTHEIM'S results , platinum and copper differ in respect to these products from the mean values , more than the other metals .
I have ascertained , however , that there is greater accordance between both and , in the case of the different metals , than can be obtained by taking the products of nd with any other power of INFLUENCE OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT AND OF MAGNETISM ON THE TORSIONAL OF METALS .
WERTHEIM has shown that the longitudinal elasticity of metals is temporarily diminished by the passage of an electric current , independently of the alteration which would result from the eleyation of temperature produced by the current : he has also proved that long-continued magnetization diminishes both temporarily and permanently the elasticity of iron and steel , but that if the magnetization be continued for only a short time there is no sensible effect .
As it seemed desirable to supplement these observations by others on the torsional rigidity of metals , a few experiments were made with this object .
nent A copper wire , 8 feet ill length and 095 centim. in diameter , was suspended for observations of the torsional rigidity in the manner previously described .
To the centre of the flat bar which car ] the cylinder was soldered a piece of platinum wire , about 3 inches in length and 05 centim. in diameter ; the other extremity of this latter wire , which hung vertically downwards , dipped into a mercury cup , so that by means of the cup and a silk-covered copper wire soldered to the upper bar , from which was suspended the wire under examination , connexion ] be made with a battery of cells , in the circuit of which was placed a GAUGAIN-HELMHOLTZ'S tangent galvanometer ; with this galvanometer the current of one DANIELL'S cell freshly charged with sulphuric acid diluted with seyen parts of water and sulphate of copper solution , a deflection of was produced through a resistance ohm .
Time of one Observations .
vibration .
Seconds .
Platinum wire out of mercury cup 5570 Platinum in cup . . . . .
Wire shortened . . . . . .
Time of one Observations .
vibration .
Seconds .
Platinum wire out of merculy cup 5570 in cup . . . . .
Wire shortened . . . . . .
Current .
Total Percentage percentage of decrease diminution of of rigidity produced by caused by the heating effect current .
of current .
63 63 used brcntp .
*Ann .
de my , 1844 , tom .
, p. C10 .
DCCCLXXXIII .
Experiment Iron wire about 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter .
Observations .
vibr .
After three days ' rest After three days ' further rest After three days ' further rest Experiment A piece of the same kind of iron wire as that used in the last experiment , about 35 centims. in length , was placed in the axis of a magnetizing helix , SO centims. in length ; the helix consisted of 1,200 turns of copper wire of an inch in diameter , wound round a glass tube of 3 centims. inner diameter and 3 centims. thickness .
heating eIfect oPercent.rease origid.itymagne .
Several other experiments of the same kind as the last were made with different magnetizing helices and current strengths , and all seemed to show that slight temporary diminution of rigidity is produced by high magnetizing force ; but that magnetizin forces small in comparison with that indicated in the last table , and yet sufficient to cause very sensible netization , produced no sensible .
The vibrations were counted for at least'half an hour in each , and an initial arc of of torsion was employed in all cases .
The percentage decrease of rigidity produced by AND STRAiN THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the rise of temperature caused by the current was calculated from KOHLRAUSCH'S formulae , for iron and for copper ; where and 7 ?
represents the rigidity at C. and C. respectively .
In Experiment XXVI .
a delicate thermometer was placed near the wire , half-way down the helix , and the rise of temperature calculated from the mean of several readings taken from time to time during the passage of the current .
In Experiments XXIV .
and XXV .
the rise of temperature was determined in the following manner:\mdash ; A current of was passed through the copper wire used in Experiment XXIV .
, and the soldered junction of a thermo-element , made of fine German-silver and iron wires , each about 2 feet in length , was kept in close contact with the copper wire by placing the latter between the two former ; the other ends of the wires forming the thermoelement were connected by means of silk-covered copper wire with the terminals of a galvanometer , and after being wrapped in tissue paper and cotton-wool , were placed in a clip-stand , which was drawn on one side so as to slightly press the soldered junction against the suspended copper , a layer of tissue paper having been used to insulate the latter from the former .
After a short time the deflection of the galvanometer became constant , and on sing the junction of the thermo-element in water , it was found necessary to raise the temperature C. order to produce the same deflection as before ; C. was therefore assumed to be the of temperature which would be caused in the copper wire by the above-mentioned current , and the rise of temperature produced by the other currents was calculated from the assump- tion that the heat generated would be proportional to the square of the current strength .
In the case of the iron wire it was assumed that the specific resistance of the iron would be six times that the copper , and the rise of temperature was calculated accordingly .
An examination of these last tables shows apparently that the torsional rigidity of copper and iron is temporarily decreased by the ssage of a powerful current , but is very little altered by currents of moderate intensity .
Experiment XXIV .
also shows that the dipping of the platinum wire into the merculy-cup did not appreciably affect the time of vibration .
* ' Brit. Encyc Art .
: " " Elasticity S 79 , I cannot place so much confidence as I could wish in the results of these particular experiments , as far as the decrease of rigidity by powerful currents is concerned , the method employed for ting the elevation of temperature produced by the current being evidently only calculated to ve a ve17 rough approximation to the true values .
I hope , however , to be in a position at some futnre time to the question in an entirely different way .
CRITICAL Several determinations of the tanent increase of length by loading were made , and led to the discovery that in all well carefully annealed metals there are at least two points at which a sudden change takes place in the ratio of the load to the permanent extension produced thereby ; these points have been called critical points , and it appears that changes more or ] profound take place in most if not all of the physical properties of the substance when these points are attained .
As , however , the subject will be fully discussed in Part II .
, where it will be shown how these points can be indirectly determined more accurately than in the ordinary manner , it will suffice here to say that the existence of the first of these critical points seems to prove yond a donbt that there is of elasticity for each substance , and that this is intimately connected with the value of\ldquo ; YOUNG'S modulus It would appear that at these two critical points sudden changes take place in the of the substance .
SUMMARY 0F PART I. 1 .
The magnitude of the temporary elongation which can be produced by any load on a wire which has experienced permanent extension is reduced by simply allowing the wire to rest either loaded or unloaded for some time after the permanent extension has aken place .
2 .
The length of the period of rest necessary to produce the maximum of the effect mentioned in 1 varies considerably with the nature of the metal of which the wire is made ; with some metals a few minutes suffice , whilst with others , such as iron or steel , many hours are required .
3 .
The of rest mentioned in 1 is greater in proportion for large loads than for small ones , and apparently vanishes in the case of such small temporary alterations of length as are produced by causing the wire to vibrate longitudinally .
4 .
The magnitude of the t , emporary elongation which can be produced by any load on a wire which has suffered recent permanent extension is also reduced by heavily loading and unloading the , the rate of reduction diminishing with each loading .
and unloading .
5 .
A departure , as far as tempQrary elongation is concerned , from " " HOOKE'S law more or less decided , always ensues after recent permanent extension , even when the weights employed to produce the temporary elongation do not exceed one-tenth of the breaking-load of the wire .
6 .
This departure is diminished very noticeably in the case of iron , and to a greater or less extent with all metals by allowing the wire to rest for some time either loaded or unloaded ; it is also diminished by repeated loading and unloading .
7 .
With aluminium and zinc , and probably with the more viscous metals tin and * See Experiments XXI.-XXIII .
inclusive .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSTCAL FORCES .
lead , both the maximum temporary increase of length which can be produced by any load , the complete recovery after the removal of the load , are only attained after an interval of several hours , provided that the weights used for the load be not very small compared with the breaking-load .
8 .
There is a small but decided departure from " " HOOKE'S law as far as temporary elongation is concerned , in all cases where the load employed to produce the elongation is of moderate amount ; this is the case even when sufficient rest has been allowed to enable the wire to attain its maximum elasticity .
9 .
We can therefore only obtain by the method of longitudinal vibrations values for " " YouNG'S modulus which are strictly comparable with those got by the method of static extension , by experimenting when we use the latter method with very small loads , and with the wire under the same conditions of stress and strain as those occurring when the former method is adopted . .
In the case of all metals , permanent extension , if not carried beyond a certain limit , causes , whether rest is or is not allowed after the permanent extension has taken place , a diminution in the value of " " YOUNG'S modulus as determined by the method of static extension .
11 .
If the permanent extension be carried beyond the above-mentioned limit , further permanent increase of length increases the value of " " YOUNG'S modulus 12 .
The limit of permanent extension mentioned in 10 varies considerably with different metals , and with the time which is allowed to elapse after the permanent extension has taken place .
13 .
In the cases of iron , heavy loading for some time so increases the value of " " YOUNG'S modulus as determined by the method of static extension , that even when the extension would have caused , without such loading , diminution of the modulus , this diminution can be changed to an increase ; with copper this is not the case .
14 .
With iron wire which has been heavily loaded for some time , the ratio of the temporary elongation to the load producing it becomes less as the load employed becomes greater , until a certain limit , depending upon the extent of the previous heavy loading , has been reached ; whereas with most other metals , and with iron which has suffered permanent extension without allowing the load which has produced extension to remain for some hours on the wire , the elongation increases at first in greater proportion than the load .
15 .
The effects on the longitudinal elasticity , and on the torsional rigidity of steel , of suddenly chilling the metal after it has been raised above a bright red heat , are similar to those produced by excessive permanent traction .
16 .
The loss of torsional rigidity , which is caused by twisting or stretching a wire , beyond the limits of elasticity , is diminished by rest .
17 .
The influence of rest mentioned in 16 is greater in proportio for large arcs of vibration than for small ones , and more noticeable with iron and steel than with most of the other metals .
18 .
The loss of torsional rigidity mentioned in 16 is more sensible proportionally with large arcs of vibration than with small ones .
19 .
Continual vibrating through large arcs has a similar effect on the torsional rigidity to that produced on " " modulus\ldquo ; by heavy loading .
unloading .
20 .
The density of a wire is very little altered by permanent extenslon , even if the latter be carried to the extent of eaking the wire .
21 .
he values of\ldquo ; YouNG'S modulus\ldquo ; obtained for the different metals are , roughly speaking , inyersely proportional to the seyenth powers of the mean distances between adjacent molecules in these metals .
22 .
The torsional rigidity of copper and iron wires seems to be temporarily decreased by the passage of a powerful electric current through the wires .
23 .
The torsional rigidity of iron wire seems to be temporarily diminished when the wire is subjected to a powerful longitudinal magnetizing force .
24 .
The effects mentioned in 22 and 23 are apparently independent of any change produced by the electric current or the magnetizing force of bhe temperature of the wires .
25 .
There are , in every well-annealed wire , two critical points at which sudden changes take place in the ratio of the permanent extension produced by longitudinal stress which is gradually increased in amount and the magnitude of the stress .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF FORCES .
S9 Received January 18 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1882 .
PART II.\mdash ; ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY .
THE TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY LONGITUDINAL TRACTION .
W. THOMSON , in investigated the effects of tension on electrical conductivity in copper and iron wires , and , moreover , stated that he " " had very nearly established , the case of iron at least , that th augmented resistance due to tension , either temporary or permanent , is a very little more than can be accoumted for by the chan ge of form In 1877 I determined in absolnte units the amount of alteration produced by longitudinal traction in the resistance of steel , iron , and brass , and proved that the temporary alteration of resistance resulting from increase of length and diminution of section is with iron and .
steel about two-fifths and with brass four-fifths of the whole observed change .
In the above-mentioned experiments I experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining accurate results in consequence of the minuteness of the changes to be measured , and , therefore , set about devising some plan whereby the variations of resistance caused by changes of temperature , which had proved a source of great annoyance , might be eliminated .
In this attempt I have been entirely successful , and with the arrangements described below have determined , with I believe considerable accuracy , the very small changes of resistance which can be temporarily produced by mechanical tension .
Description of Pieces , about feet in length , of the same wires as used in Part I. were suspended in pairs , as in fig. , in an air chamber 4 feet in height , 4 inches inner diameter and 6 inches outer diameter ; the inner of the two concentric cylinders of which the air chamber was composed being surrounded by a layer of water 1 inch thick enclosed between the two cylinders .
This vessel , which was made of tinned iron , rested on a table , provided with a suitable aperture , , and was furnished with two thermometers , , passing through the outer cylinder and into the } of the inner one .
The ends of the two wires were clamped into three short and stout brass blocks , , which * Phil. Trams .
, Part , Feb. '28th , 1856 , SS 150-152 .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 183 , 1877 .
In this figure the key employed to close the battery circuit is placed near the LECLANCIIE cell not in its actual position near the scale and lamp , in order to show the connexions more clearly .
rested upon a support of hard wood , , each being separated its neighbours by wooden The was the length of A and , and into this was clamped one end of each of the wlres , the other ends being clamped into and C. A caoutchouc-covered copper wlre connected a binding-screw on A with one Fig. 6 .
pole of a large.sized LECLANCHE ' and a similar wire , X , connected the same bindingscrew with a set of resistance-coils .
In a similar manner was connected with the other pole of the LECLANCHE ' , and through with another set of resistancecoils , ; whilst , and the sliding-piece , which traversed a wire , NN , made in the first instance of platinum-silver and afterwards of platino-iridium , uniting and were joined to two terminals of a reflecting galvanometer , G. The wire to be strained was provided with a movable pulley , , 2 inches in diameter , to which was attached by means of a stout wire the scale-pan used in Part I. , or , as in some experiments , large pail weighing 4 kilogs .
and capable of containing about 60 kilogs .
of water ; both wires were , before suspension , surrounded with caoutchouc-tubing silk or other insulating material .
The aperture , , could be closed by two wooden shutters , , having small semicircular holes cut in the centre of the extremities adjacent to each other , so as to leave only just sufficient room for the stout wire to swing freely ; moreover , still further to prevent any errors which might be caused by chance currents of air , the top of the air-chamber was well covered with baize after the wires had been adjusted , and the table was also surrounded on three sides with a like matorial , MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS It will be seen that the whole arrangement of wires , battery galvanometer , forms , with the resistance coils and " " WHEATSTONE'S ba lance , such that no be com ared , namely , and , is out of the air-chamber .
The part of the wires to compal galvdnometer was provided with two se two sets of needles , which were astatic ; the coil stlrroundin the upper set a resistance of ohms , and that surrounding the lower set a resistance of 4863 ohms , at the temperature C. The wlre of the former coil was divided into two equal parts , the ends of these being soldered to four terminal screws , so that , by connecting the two parts of the coil in " " Multiple arc the resistance could , if necessary , be diminished to ohms , and the Instrument rendered available for experiments requiring a galvanometer of low resistance .
The upper coil only was used in this palt of the enquiry , and yet the Instrument proved so sensitive that , with the single cell employed for the current-motor , and with the adjusting magnet assisting the earth 's directive force on the needles , a variation of conductivity of 1 in ' could be readily detected eyen the most unfavourable case , which was that of a copper wire having a resistance of only 0224 ohm ; whilst in the majority of instances resistances were measured within Jive parts in one The esistance coils were of platinum-silver , and the uniting and was , in the first few experiments , made of the same mat , erial , but was afterwards replaced by one of platinum-iridium ; this latter wire was made expressly for me by Messrs. JOHNSON and MATTHEY , and seemed a marvel of accurate wire-drawing , as on testing it at various parts no variation of conductivity could be detected anywhere except at the two extreme ends , where it was firmly clamped into brass blocks ; all the graduated portion of the wire , 470 miIlims .
in length , seemed , within the limits of observation , to be perfectly uniform .
When required for measuring resistances in the ordinary way , the coils were arranged as in fig. 8 ; where X represents the wire under examination , the galvanometer , the battery , the sliding-piece , and conical plugs of brass with ebonite heads .
Immediately to the right of X are a set of resistance-coils of the " " dial pattern ranging from of an ohm to 10,000 ohms ; whilst below these are two sets of resistances , the arrangement and magnitude of which are sufficiently shown in the diagram ; the plugs serve to commute the position of X iu the bridge , and the plug to throw out , if necessary , the resistance , the dotted lines representing wires of extremely small resistance .
* These beautiful instruments might , if necessary , be rendered even much more sensitive than they are by adopting a finer suspension .
I have found that a single fibre of silk is quite sufficient to sustain a weight equal to that on the suspension of many of the galvanometers which are now made , and anyone who will take the trouble to test practically , as I have done , the alteration which be effected in the instrument by the careful selection of such a fibre will be surprised at the result .
I feel little hesitation in asserting that my own galvanometer could be rendered three times as sensitive as it now by such means ; as it is , the silk suspension has been slowly untwisting for upwards of seven years , and still continues to do so .
I have also found that keeping the galvanometer perfectly stationary , after it has once been placed in position , materially assists in preserving the magnetism of the needles , AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
For the purpose of this part of the enquiry , arrangements were made as in fig. 7 , where it will be seen that the crossed pieces , which are insulated from each other , serve to connect the tentloe and units with the resistance-coils of the resistance-coits of the ) ) wire .
In order to test uniformity of the platinum-iridium wire NN , two platinumsilver wires , of resistances 9 and 10 ohms respectively , were placed in the positions of and , fig. 7 .
was supplemented by a rheochord , and at both and the plugs were inserted in the 10 ohms resistance , whilst the rheochord was employed.to bring to the extreme right-hand end of the graduated portion of the wire .
If , then , denote the resistance of the ungraduated portion of NN on the right of , together with the interposed portion of the rheochord and , whilst denotes the resistance of the ungraduated part of NN on the left of together with X , we have say , or . . .
( 1 ) where is the average resistance of one division of NN , and is the number of divisiotls from the right-hand end of the graduated wire at which is placed .
A resistance of ohm is now added to from the tenths ' -plate , and in consequence has to be moved to divisions from the right-hand end in order to restore the balance ; . . . . . .
from ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) we obtain Again the rheochord is adjusted so as to bring about 10 millims. still further away from the right to , say , divisions , and on the removal of the ohm resistance is brought back towards the right to , say , divisions ; then before If the wire is uniform the value of in the latter case should be equal to that of in the former , and therefore MR. H. TOMLINSON ON INFLUlfNCE OF STRESS This was fuund to be so exactly the case that though provided with a vernier reading to -th of a millimetre , and the addition of the ohm requlred to be nifted through about 300 milhms .
, no difference whatever could be detected between the galvanometer being sufficiently delicate to show an alteration of equal , that of of a millimetre of N. In the same manner each portion of the wire was tested , and it was concluded that no difference of resistance amounting to 1 in 3000 existed in any part of the graduated wire .
The uniformity of NN having been established , it was easy to compare the tenths with each other , and by determining the exact value of , to find the values of their resistances in terms of the divisions of the platinum-iridium wire : tlus was accordingly done , and the values thus obtained were ascertained to accord fairly well with each other .
In order to secure still greater accuracy , the wire NN and the whole of the resistance-coils were afterwards tested by means of a second box of resistance-coil some eight or nine entire days having been spent in this work .
These fresh trials confirmed the results obtained in f , he previous ones as regards the uniformity of NN and the relative values of the tenths ; but the absolute values of the latter in terms of the divisions of were found to vary slightly on different days , as also did those of the rest of the resistance-coils .
Thus the sum of the ten resistances in the units dialplate were found on three separate days to be equal to that of 58,605 , 58,739 , and 58,437 divisions of NN respectively .
From these and other experiments the average value of the resistances of each of the units at , at which temperature a unit agreed , according to KIESER , with 1 ohm , was equal to the resistance of millim. divisions of the platinumiridium wire .
units accorded very well with each other and with all the other resistances in the box except the tenths , nearly all the latter being slightly too low .
exact values , however , of each of the units and tenths were tabulated and used in calculating the results of the different experiments made in this and subsequent parts of the enquiry .
This box was ] lent to me by Mr. KIESEB , of ELLIOIT Bros. , to whom I am also indebted for diagrams These variations are certainly not due to errors of observation , as the results of trials made within one or two hours of each other agreed much more closely with each other ; they may be attributed almost entirely to the prevalent plan of embedding resistance-coils in solid paraffin , whereby the temperature of the coils inside the box is frequently very different from that of the air outside : this plan is , I am con- vinced , a very bad one when great accuracy is required , as not only do the wires get heated to an extent which is very appreciable , even when only a single cell is employed , but a effect\ldquo ; is produced at the junctions of the coils and the brass.blocks which can never be properly got rid of ; and thus the labour and care bestowed on these resistances are to a great extent lost .
It would be better to fill the box with some such liquid as paraffin oii .
AND SPRAIN oN TliE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
and final method of In the first attempts which were made the galvanometer was put into circuit by means of the usual contact-piece of the sliding-block , immediately after closing the ; but it was soon found that the very act of pressing down the contact-piece generated small thermo-electric currents which , lasting some minutes , frustrated all attempts at making such accurate measurements as it was hoped would ultimately be obtained .
was therefore clamped by means of a suitable spring-and-catch , with which it was provided , to any desired part of the platinum-iridium wire , and a double key was elnployed by means of which first the battery and then immediately afterwards the galvanometer were put into the " " bridge Here again , however , the same difficulty was encountered , and by no device of covering the hand and key with cloth or silk could this source of error be entirely avoided .
The double key therefore discarded , and the galvanometer being always kept in the bridge a key was used for losing the battery circuit for the brief space of time necessary for observing whether this act caused any difference of potential at the terminals of the galvanometer .
Of course the zero-point of the galvanometer needles was continually being altered by the thermo-electric currents produced by the frequent shifting and clamping of but this circumstance did not affect the results , and though in the case of iron a slight trouble was experienced sometimes from the " " kick\ldquo ; of the needles due to circular magnetization , this difficulty was after a few trials surmounted , and from this point the measurements proceeded very satisfactorily .
In most instances and were made of about 100 ohms ' resistance , and such large resistances were , it is true , out of proportion to those of the other branches of the bridge , yet , as has been already observed , the arrangement proved of amply sufficient delicacy , and moreover rendered it impossible that any sJight variations of the resistances of X and , which were each042 ohm , and of the wire , arising from changes of , should cause anLy appreciable error ; indeed , one great advantage of this method is that the galvanometer and the resistance-coils may be a hundred yards or more from the rest of the " " bridge\ldquo ; without any chance of fluctuations of temperature materially influencing the result , even when the most minute variations of conductivity to be measuled .
The deflections of the galvanometer were read in the usual manner by means of the image of a fine wire fixed vertically across one end of a small blackened tube , into the other end of which was fitted a lens for focussing the image of the wire on to the mirror of the galvanometer ; and the end of the tube at which the wire was situated illuminated by a paraffin lamp , placed so that the edge of the flame was in front of the wire , the reflected circle of light with the fine dark line across the centre being very This fact has , I find , been noticed by , Phil. April , 1881 , No. MR. .
TOMLINSON ON THE OF clearly defined on the scale , though the latter was at a distance of 6 feet from the galvanometer .
The adjusting magnet was almost always used to the directive force of the earth 's magnetism on the needles , as it was found that by so doing the shifting of the caused by the above-mentioned thermo-electric currents was considerably diminished , and at the time the instrument was sufficiently sensitive .
The wires and , which were made as nearly as possible of the same resistance , were , after being suspended , allowed to remain in the air-chamber for some time ; was then made 100 ohms and adjusted , by the resistances in the box as far as of an ohm , and finally by using the sliding-block until no deflection of the image of the fine wire could be detected on closing the battery circuit .
As the needles of the galvanometer soon came to rest , and could be very readily damped and unclamped , it was possible to make the observations quickly ; an interval of one minute was , however , generally allowed to elapse between two consecutive readings , as , ough the battery-power was small and and of the same material and of the same section , yet in some cases the current evidently produced unequal heating effects in the two wires .
Nor is this to be wondered at , as a difference of temperature of less than C. would produce a sensible difference of resistance .
In ascertaining the temporary alteration of resistance caused by longitudinal traction , it was deemed advisable to adopt the same precautions as were used in determining the modulus of elasticity , as though the wires employed had been previously strained for the latter purpose and then allowed to rest for some weeks ; they seemed , in some cases at least , to have become partially annealed , and it was found that the temporary alteration of electrical conductivity caused by loading was affected in precisely the same manner as the elasticity , by stress producing recent permanent extension .
Great care was taken in loading and unloading the wire , and in the experiments which were made with the first two or three wires a large but jght pail was used instead of the scale-pan .
Into this vessel measured amou1lts of water were allowed to flow slowly through a piece of caoutchouc tubing , when it was necessary to apply stress , and the unloading was accomplished by suffering the same water to pass gently out through another piece of tubing connected with an orifice at the bottom of the pail .
During the loading this latter tube was hitched up by the side of the vessel .
It was found , however , that with practice quite as accurate results could be obtained by using a scale-pan in the manner , and as time thereby saved this method was finally adopted .
Formuloe employed .
The temporary ] teration of resistance which was in any case produced was so small that it could be measured by the wire joining to .
If , tbel.fore , A and denote * The distance of the lamp and scale from the galvanometer is not drawn to the same scale in fig. 6 as for the other arrangcments , for the purpose of avoiding the taking up of too much space .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the number of millimetre divisions of this wire which have a resistance equal to the branches and respectively , including in these the connecting wires X and and the parts of the divided wire on either side of be the number of divisions through which it is necessary to move in order to restore the balance of resistance when disturbed by a load , and be the section of the wire , then , denoting by the increase per unit of resistance which would be produced by a unit load acting on unit ) area , we have within a sufficiently close degree of approximation Again , if be multiplied by we obtain the alteration of resistance per umit which would result from doubling the length of the wire by the application of longitudinal traction ; therefore denoting this latter value by , we have Part of is due to mere increase of length and diminution of section ; this part very nearly .
Thus .
the alteration of the specific resistance produced by the traction .
It will be seen that and are calculated on the assumptions that the change of resistance is directly proportional to the stress and also to the elongation ; both these assumptions were found to be nearly correct , but neither are strictly so .
The experiment out of many will serve to show ( a ) that the temporary alteration of resistance is nearly but not proportional to the load , and ( b ) that it is possible to measure with considerable accuracy minute changes of electrical conductivity even when the resistance of the wire used is small .
Experiment An annealed copper wire 154 centim. in diameter and having a esistance of only ohm was loaded by pouring 12 measures of water , each having a weight of 5825 grms. , into a pail attached to the pulley on the wire .
This load , which was four-fifths of the " " breaking-weigh was suffered to main on the wire for some and was then removed .
following consecutive observations were begun next day and extended over three days , two trials being made on each .
The numbers in the column headed ' Temporary alteration of resistance\ldquo ; are the divisions of the platinum-silver wire NN , through which it was necessary to shift in order to balance the effect of the load .
The mean values for three , six , and nine measures respectively , and , and none of the observations differ from these mean values by 7 per cent. Thus for the first three measures we obtain a mean alteration of , for the second , and for the third Experiment The same wire as in the last experiment , after having been repeatedly loaded with 13 measures , was tested with the same weights as before with the following results:\mdash ; Experiment lII .
A piece of platinum ( 1 ) annealed , which had been repeatedly loaded with 12 kilogs .
AND STRAIN ON ACTION OF PHYSICAL ] ] B'xperiment The same wire as in the last experiment , which had been further loaded and unloaded with 15 kilogs .
until the recovery had become perfect for this load . .
Experi , A piece of silver ( 1 ) almealed , which had been previously unloaded with 8 kilogs .
until the recovery had become perfect .
Number of kilogs in load .
nisecutive a nent VI .
A piece of platinum-silver ( 1 ) rendered very hard by wing , and which had been loaded and unloaded several times with 20 kilogs .
alteration Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive alteralion Difference between per kilog .
consecutive 19.75 R. H. NSON ON ol sTRESS Experiment VII .
An annealed iron wire which had been loaded hours with 30 kilogs .
Temporary alteration of resistance .
9.0 20.5 44.0 56.3 68.5 105.1 117.4 129.8 142.3 155.0 alteration Difference between per 2 .
consecutive averages9.00 27 26 16 12 07 07 06 06 058 on Experinvents .
inclusive .
All these experiments prove that the ratio of the resistance-increase to the load is not quite constant , but that the former increases in a greater proportion than the latter .
This want of proportionality is seen from Experiments I.-IV .
inclusive to be materially dimimished , though never entirely made to vanish , by repeated heavy loading and unloading , and it appears impossible to find any single formula which will express exactly the relation between the load and the alteration of resistance for all conditions of the wire ; consequently the values of given in Table I. are calculated from observations made with two weights , the larger never exceeding one-fourth of the " " breaking-weight , \ldquo ; and being twice the smaller ; and the mean of the two numbers obtained by dividing the observed alteration by the load is taken to the change produced by unit load , this mean being in no case different from either of the numbers by more than 1 per cent. The columns in which are recorded the differences between the consecutive average alteration per kilogramme show that when the load employed in determining the temporary alteration of resistance approaches closely to the highest load which has been used in the preliminary operations , a comparatively rapid increase takes place in the ratio of the temporary alterabion of resistance to the load .
From Experiments VI .
and VII .
we learn that in the case of a metal which has been rendered hard by the of drawing , or in the case of iron*which has been subjected to a heavy load for some time , the average alteration of resistance per * Probably also in the case of any metal possessing a coercive force comparable with that of iron .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
unit load increases less and less rapidly up to a certain degree of stress , and afterwards begins to increase more and more rapidly , whereas with the annealed metals the average alteration increases at first by almost equal amounts .
Experiment VIII .
A piece of platinum ( 1 ) annealed was loaded and unloaded several times with 12 kilogs .
, and was immediately afterwards tested , with the following results:\mdash ; excep oFrom the last experiment it is evident that part of the increase of elasticity which is gained by repeated heavy loading and unloading is lost by allowing the wire to rest , moreover , that the departure from ' HOOKE'S law\ldquo ; which we have seen to be appreciably lessened under the influence of the former cause is increased by the latter .
In Table I. will be found the values of the specific resistance of the different metals , the increase of resistance per unit which is temporarily produced by a stress of 1 per square centimetre , the increase of resistance per unit which would be caused by stress sufficing to double the length of the wire , and the increase of specific resistance per unit which would be caused by stress sufficing to double the length of the wire ; the specific gravity and section of the wire are oximately the same as those retarded in Part I. MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF ' TABLE I. on Table It will be seen from the above table that the specific resistance of iron is more increased by a given amount of elongation than that of any of the other metals , and that the specific }tance of aluminium is actually decreased by stress in the line of flow of current ; this latter fact being signified by a minus sign placed opposite alumimium in the sixth column .
It is also remarkable that the value of for the alloys , platinum-silver , Germansilver and brass should be considerably less than that of their components ; and this circumstance , taken in connexion with the comparatively large increase of resistance of iron , would suggest that there is some relation between increase of electrical resistance caused by rise of temperature and that due to mechauical stress .
, iron ( 3 ) , steel ( 1 ) , steel ( 2 ) , brass ( 2 ) were tested some years ago by method similar to the one here described , AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
But the change of resistance attending a given amount of expansion caused by rise of temperature is , in the case of , more than a hundred times that resulting from the same amount of expansion produced by mechanical stress ; and it is evident that with all metals the alteration of electrical conductivity following on alteration of temperature is due for the most part to other uses than mere contraction and expansion .
Carbon .
As it seemed desirable to extend these researches to as many substances as possible , some experiments were made with carbon rods such as are used for electric lighting purposes .
These rods were between 40 and 50 centims. in length , and of different diameters , and their moduli of longitudinal elasticity could be readily determined by holding them in the centre and rubbing them along their length with a resined glove .
The note obtained by the longitudinal vibrations , though , of course , very high in pitch , was quite clear and distinct , and very concol.dant results were obtained when the saine pieces were tried at different times .
The pitch of the note was determined by the siren .
' and the following experiment , taken at random out of my note book , will suffice to show what aCcuracy can be attained with this instrument eyen with notes of very high pitch .
Experinn A carbon rod of length 496 metre , rubbed longitudinally by means of a resined glove , gave a note , the lower double octaye of which was taken on a monochord ; the siren was then raised to the pitch of the monochord , and the number of vibrations counted for two minutes at a time .
Number of vibrations recorded the siren in two mlnutes .
In this experimentthe monochord was re-tuned at each trial , and it will be observed that the mean value does not from any of those forming it by so much as per cent. Of course , by extending the time of each trial and the number of still greater accuracy could have been obtained .
The formula employed for calculating the elasticity is which is * I have to thank Mr. FURSE , the Cnrator of the Mnscum { olIcge , for his ) tance in this part of the work .
the length of the rod metres , the number of the density , and the in kilogrammes per square millimetre .
Fig. 9 .
In order to determine the alteration of resistance which could be produced by longitudina ] traction , the rods were well coated for about 2 inches of their lengths with copper deposited by electrolysis , and were then arranged as shown in fig. 9 .
The rods passing through two holes in a table were secured at their upper ends by two clamps , A , and at their lower extremities were fastened two other clamps , either of which would also serve to carry a scale-pan suspended by an iron wire attached to its lower extremity .
Two pieces of silk-covered copper wire , about 6 inches in length and of an inch in diameter , were soldered on to the deposited copper at , and these being also joined together were connected with the galvanometer .
Two other pairs of similar wire were soldered at , and one of each pair was connected , as usual , with the resistance coils , and the other with one pole of the battery .
The resistances of the silk-covered copper wires at , which were small compared with those of the rods themselves , were calculated by determining the resistance of some 6 feet of the wire , and assuming that the resistances of the short pieces at and the actually determined resistance of the longer piece were proportional to their lengths .
The whole table was surrounded on all sides except one with baize , and the mode of proceeding the same as usual .
Experiment shows that with the loads employed the alteration of resistance is nearly proportional to the load .
STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL Carbon rod , length between and centims. , diameter centim. In Table II .
will be found some data respecting the alteration of resistance produced by loading , the values of ' ' YOUNG'S modulus specific resistance , specific gravity , crmd section of each rod .
TABLE II .
on The sections of the rods were much more uniform than would perhaps been expected ; for example , in the case of No. 3 , as measured by a gauge at five points equally apalt , the diameter was found to be434 , 434 , 434 , 434 , and433 centim. , and the other rods were found to be nearly of the same uniformity as this one .
The specific gravities were determined by breaking the rods into pieces about 5 inches in length and binding a thin copper wire round them , which latter was TOMLINSON ON fastened to a very fine platinum wire , so the pieces could be weighed in air and in water .
It should be stated that carbon in this form being porous , the specific gravit.y as 11 be found to increase if the substance be allow to remaln usually reckoned ou water for any time , and especially so car on the carbon be boiled in water .
The following experiment will show the extent of alteration of the apparent specific gravity:\mdash ; Several pieces of carbon tied together with fine copper wire , and boiled for five minutes ; the pieces then taken out of the hot water , kept for fiye nuteS cold water , and afterwards suspended by a ) platinum wire a large vessel filled with water at C. Weight orbon targe vTime { The pieces then boiled a second time for 40 minutes , and after having been kept in cold water for 30 minutes , again tested for loss of weight .
As the temperature of the water varied very little during the periods of observation , we see that the apparent specific quantity went on increasing for more than 12 days , and that the total percentage of increase amounted to nearly 12 .
The specific gravities , however , recorded in the table are calculated from the loss of weight observed shortly after immersion in water , the pieces of carbon not having been boiled , and the section as determined by dividing the loss of weight by the length agreed very well with the section measured by the wire-gauge .
With the exception of number 5 , the value of ' YOUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; increased very AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
largely as the specific gravity increased ; in fact , the value of is roughly proportional to has also determined the values of for several carbon rods , used for electric lighting , by longitudinal vibrations , and it would appear from the results obtained by him that is also fairly constant .
The mean values of BEETZ ' results and my own are given in the next table .
TABLE III .
Though , however , is roughly a constant for different of carbon by the same maker , the value of this constant may be evidently different for samples from different makers , the mean value of BEETZ ' samples for being and that of my own specimens The value of given in Table II .
for number 3 is calculated from the formula It will be noticed that the product , i. e. , the increase of resistance which would be caused by a load sufficient to double the length of the rod , is nearly a constant for the different specimens , and on referring to Table I. it will be observed that this product is much less than that for several of the metals , though the increase of resistance caused by a stress of 1 .
per square centimetre is of course , in consequence of the small elasticity of the carbon , greater than any of the metals examined except tin and lead , whose elasticities approach much more nearly to that of this kind of carbon than any of the other substances .
In calculating the alteration of specific resistance it was assumed that , but * Ann. der Phys. und Chem. , 1881 , No. 1 , p. 67 .
The elasticity of the rods here examined is very nearly equal to that of tin .
NDCCCLXXXIII .
I MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE ]]iNCE O STRESS though the values given in the last column of Table II .
are in consequence of the want of knowledge of approximate to the true ones , they must su cent so to be sufficientl prove that not only is the total resistance of the carbon increased by loading but so also is the specific resistance .
Thelnean value of the specific resistance of the different specimens is , and is therefore more than 100 times greater that the corresponding number for platinumsilver , which latter metal ; highest in the list of metals in Table I. NICKEL .
Through the kindness of Messrs. JOHNSON and MATTHEY , who after some difficulty succeeded in drawing for me two pieces of almost pnre nickel wire 8 feet in length , I was able to make some experiments on this metal , in which I obtained results so completely differing from those observed in the case of the other substances , that I may perhaps be excused for treating them in some detail .
The metal when first received was in the hard drawn condition , and in this state was tested for torsional rigidity and longitudinal elasticity , for the former in the usual manner and for the latter by longitudinal vibrations .
The pieces were then suspended in the air chamber , and since it was not thought desirable to bend the wire , the following arrangements were made , which are sufficiently shown in fig. 10 .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
X and are the two wires to be compared , the clamp A rests as before on the top of the air chamber , and of the two clamps fastened to the lower ends of X and one has a stout iron wire attached to it for the purpose of a suspension for the scalepan .
Also to each of the clamps are soldered two silk-coyered copper of an inch in diameter and 3 feet in length , one of these serving to connect the clamp with one of the battery wires and the other with t , he caoutchouc-covered wire leading to the resistance coils .
The wires X and were each feet in length , but were not cut off from the 8 feet pieces , the remainder of the ' being allowed to hang down on the outside of the air chamber , whilst the silk-covered copper wires fastened to the clamps were brought down tbrough the hole in the table at the bottom of the air-chamber .
When the experiments on the hard-drawn wire had been finished , the metal was well annealed and similar ones made on it in this new , with this difference , howeyer\mdash ; that now the wire X was tested with larger and larger loads until it finally broke .
The results of the experiments made on the wire in the hard drawn and annealed conditions will be found in Table IV .
The curves in Table V. , showing the temporary alteration of resistance produced in the annealed wire by different loads aftel the wire had been previously stretched for some time with weights of 16 , 18 , 20 , 22 , and 24 kilogs .
, are drawn with their abscissae to represent the percentage alteration of resistance on a scale to the millimetre , and with their ordinates the number of kilogrammes per square centimetre in the load on a scale of 25 kilogs .
to the millimetre .
TABLE IV .
Saercetcoentims .
* Not shown in the figure .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL formula of the hard drawn nickel is of course impossible , as the case , it will be remembered , with the value of with hard-drawn copper , brass , Gel.man-silver , and platinum-silver , and the wire therefore furnishes another proof ' that the formula cannot be applied to hard drawn metal .
The most remarkable feature , however , presented by nickel is that shown in Table V. , where we learn that the resistance is absolutely decreased up to a certain extent of loading and then begins to increase .
We see , moreover , that the ?
mum becomes less and less as the wire receives more and more permanent extension , and that the point of loading where this maximum occurs gradually rises the amount of permanent extension .
* As might be supposed , therefore , the decreases of resistance obtained with two loads of 3 and 6 kilogs .
were with the hard drawn metal much less than with the ] one .
Again , if we ta\amp ; e the average decrease of resistance produced by a load of ] .
per square centimetre between the points of zero load and the load producing maximum decrease , we find it in the case of the outer curve to be , and the product of this number by , whilst the decrease of specific resistance attending unit increase of length , or the number corresponding to in Table I. , would amount to .
All these numbers , especially the last , are very considerably greater than the corresponding increases of resistance obtained with any of the other metals .
We thus observe that whether we regard the peculiarity of loading up to a certain point producing decrease of and after this point increase , or the comparatively enormous temporary variations of resistance produced by loading , nickel stands by itself , and the idea at once suggested itself that this abnolmal behaviour of the metal might be due to the influence of circular magnetization caused by the current employed in balancing the wire and the comparison-wire .
Accordingly two experiments were made of the following nature:\mdash ; First , as the alteration of resistance might be only apparent and due to the fact that VILLARI'S shock-currents were not the same in the stretched and unstretched wires , both the galyanometer circuit and the battery circuit were kept closed , and the position of the light on the scale noted with stretching weights : the readings taken in this way gave alterations of resistance which were exactly the same as those obtained by the usual method .
Secondly , as the lterations might be really those of resistance , but due to the fact that circular etization , might cause an alteration of resistance in both iron and nickel , and unequally in the stretched and unstretched wires , the resistances in the bridge were so adjusted that currents of one-half and one-fourth respectively of the current which had previously * The numbers 16 , 18 , 20 , 22 , 24 , on the curves represent the load which had previously been the wire before testing for the temporary effect of loading .
I did not think this likely , as I had not been able to detect of kind iron wirc was used . .
According to AUERBACH , but not according to experiments tried by myself .
passed through the wire in determining the resistance might now do so ; but again the alterations of resistance were found to be the same as before .
Now if denote the electromotive force of the and the resistances of the wire and the comparison-wire , and the resistances in the box , and the resistance of the battery and connexions , the current in will be proportional to or since and were only ohm each , whilst and were 10 ohms each , the current in will be nearly proportional to was nearly volts , and in the case of the weakest current was made 10 ohms ; therefore this current would in absolute measure of .
units be015 .
Unless , therefore , the maximum difference of alteration of resistance caused by circular magnetization in the stretched and unstretched wires had been reached by a still smaller current than this , we cannot regard the curious behaviour of nickel in respect to the effect of stress on its electrical conductivity as due circular magnetization .
Again , another idea suggested itself , namely , that the wires bemg suspended vertically might cause the resistance of the umstretched wires to be altered unequally by the earth 's vertical magnetic force , but this latter , it will be seen , is of too small intensity to have any effect at all comparable with that observed in { he stretching ; and , moreover , experiments subsequently made with the wire at right angles to the magnetic meridian , showed plainly that this was not the case .
We must therefore regard the abnormal effect produced on the electrical resistance of nickel as not due to the earth 's magnetic force .
We have seen also that , in the case of other metals which have suffered permanent extension , rest increases the elasticity and diminishes the temporary of resistance which any load is capable of causing , and that with iron this effect is very apparent .
It was therefore an interesting point to determine whether the of resistance which moderate loading produces in nickel would be increased by rest .
The next experiment shows that this is so .
*Similar experiments with iron had also previously shown that with this metal tbere is no appreciable difference in the alteration of resistance produced by stretching when different current strengths are employeci in the bridge .
T After these experiments I re.tried iron with a view to ascertain whether loads might not produce decrease of resistance , but found that the smallest load that caused any effect whatever produced as before increase of resistance .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
nent XII .
An annealed nickel wire loaded and moaded several times on three different occasions , with weights of 18 , 20 , and 22 kilogs .
respectively , and then tested with equal or lesser loads .
8 We see here that rest produces a very appreciable effect , increasing the negative alteration of resistance and diminishing the positive altelation ; but we notice also that as the loads become .e larger and larger the influence ofrest becomes less and less marked ; and , lastly , that as increases to nearly the breaking load of the wire the effects both of the moderate load to produce decrease and of the excessive load to produce increase become more and more equal , and if we turn to Table V. we see plainly that the points in the curves showing the position of maximum decrease of resistance , which at first become wider and wider apart , at length begin to close up .
All this is intelligible if we bear in mind what has been proved in Part I. , namely , that the elasticity of all metals is diminished by permanent extension carried to a certain point , and beyond this point increased , and provided that we assume that ' elongation without regard to the stress producing it causes increase of resistance .
The question then naturally arises , do stress and the consequent temporary strain produce on the electrical conductivity of substances opposite effects ?
* Permanent elongation wo shaJl find produces in most metals first increase of specific resistance and then decrease , but in iron and nickel first decrease and then increase .
INFLUENCE EXTENSION ON THE TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF RESISTANCE CAUSED BY LONGITU DINAL It has been asserted in Part I. that the elasticity of a wire is diminished by permanent extension not exceeding a certain limit .
In order to furnish still further evidence in favour of this assertion some experiments were made on the influence of permanent extension on the temporary alteration of resistance produced by longitudinal stress .
Experiment XIII .
A piece of copper ( 3 ) was subjected to loads which were gradually increased , and after the removal of each load the temporary alteration of resistance was determined from the mean values gob by testing with from one to five measures of water .
Experiment XI A similar piece of wire was loaded with from 12 to 14 measures of water , and after the removal of each load tested in a similar manner to the above .
Difference lween consecutive alterations of resistanoe .
* Neither these numbers nor those column 4 are on the same scale as the corres ondin numbers iu the last experiment .
pon ng AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The last two experiments show that with copper the temporary alterations of resistance caused by longitudinal increase up to a certain limit of pernlanent extension and then begin to decrease .
We also see that the greatest changes in the values of the temporary alterations of resistance take place at those places where there are the greatest permanent changes of resistance .
THE EFFECP OF ON ELECTRICAL It was anticipated that compression would in most cases produce decrease of electrical resistance , and as carbon seemed a suitable substance to experiment on , the following arrangement was made with the view of ascertaining whether compression would produce on the resistance of carbon the opposite effect to that caused by longitudinal extension : in is a block of stone on which rests upright the piece of carbon which it is desired to compress ; the other piece of carbon to serve as the comparisonpiece is supported near the first by a clip-stand ( not shown in the figure ) .
The two pieces of carbon were each about 4 inches in length , and were well coated with copper deposited by electrolysis for a distance of about three-quarters of an inch at the ends .
To the upper ends were soldered two silk-covered copper wires as in the experiments on extension , and the junction of these was connected with the galvanometer , whilst to the copper deposited on the lower extremities were soldered wires to serve for connecting with the battery and coils .
The compression was produced by putting weights into a scale-pan attached to the end of a lever of hard wood , which in the position of .
the carbon rod produced on the latter a five times that of the weights in the pan .
Experiment .
A piece of carbon rod , 4 inches in length and square centim. in section , was compressed by putting a weight of 2 Iogs .
on to the pan at the end of the lever .
: From the results of Experiment XV .
it was calculated that a compression of 1 per square centimetre would cause a decrease of resistance of per unit , and as the longitudinal elasticity was , the alteration of resistance attending an amount of compression which would suffice to halve the length of the rod would be , and of this alteration would be in the specific resistance of the rod .
The specific resistance of the specimen at C. was We see that the effect of compression is to diminish both the total resistance and the specific resistance of the specimen of carbon , and is therefore of an opposite to that of longitudinal extension .
THE ALTERATION OF ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY STRESS APPLIED IN .
DIRECTION TRANSVERSE TO THAT OF THE CURRENT .
It has been seen that , in the case of most metals , stress applied in the same direction as that of the current increases , both permanently and temporarily , the resistance , and it seemed probable that stress when applied in a direction perpendicular to that of the current would alter the resistance in the opposite direction .
The following arrangements were therefore made with the view of testing this point:\mdash ; of metal foil about 10 centims. long , 2 centims. broad , and centim. thick , arranged in pairs as in fig. 12 .
and are stout brass clamps into which two hooked iron are screwed , and the strip to be examined is clamped into the brass pieces , which are 8 centims. in length , but insulated from them by means of silk .
The AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
clamp connects the metal to be tested with a similar strip , and both strips with one terminal of the galvanometer ; whilst the clamps A and serve , as before , to connect the strips with the resistance coils and battery .
Fig. 1 The strip to be examined was strained by means of a stout wooden lever , the table which supported the upper hooked iron rod was surrounded with baize .
eriment X A strip of iron foil , 10 centims. in length , centims. in width , and of specific gravity , was subjected to a stress of 120 kilogs .
, and after two or three applications and removals of this load , it was found that this stress produced a of resistance which required the sliding piece to be shifted through 20 divisions of the platino-iridium wire , and that on the removal of the stress the resistance was increased by the same amount .
The load was distributed over sectional area of 098 square centim. , and the diminution of resistance , which would be caused by a stress of 1 .
per square centimetre , was calculated to be per unit .
Inasmuch , however , as onJy one-third of the total resistance measured was effected by the stress , it was assumed that if the whole of the piece could have been strained to the same extent the diminution would have been ; whereas in the case of iron subjecte - .
to longitudinal traction the alteration of resistance produced by the same stress amounted to , or nearly six times as much as that caused by transverse traction .
Again , if we assume that the value of modulus\ldquo ; is the same for the foil as for the wire , the total alteration of resistance caused by the transversc1 which would suffice to double the width of the strip would be per unit .
Also taking the ratio of lateral contraction to elongation to be 281 , as was the case with iron ( 1 ) , the total decrease of resistance due to mere change of form would be ; and therefore on the whole there would seem to be an increase of specific , caused by stress sufficing to double the width of the strip .
Experiment XVII .
A strip of tin-foil of nearly the same dimensions as the iron-foil used in the last experiment was tested with a load of 8 kilogs .
, and a permanent decrease of resistance thereby produced per umit ; a temporary decrease of 002 per unit was caused by the application of the load , and it was calculated that the temporary decrease per unit cted by a stress of 1 .
per square centimetre vould amount to as compared with , the alteration caused by the same amount of longitudinal stress with tin wire .
It would thus seem that , contrary to what takes place with the iron , the alteration produced by transverse traction is much greater ( about 23 times as great ) than that caused by longitudinal traction ; and if we suppose the elasticity of the foil to be even much less than that of the wire , there must be a very appreciable of specific ; this latter , if the values of and are the same for the foil and the wire , would be 700 per unit , i.e. , the metal would have a specific resistance of of its original specific resistance , if stress were applied transversely , sufficing to double the width of the foiI .
The corresponding alteration produced by the same amount of stress applied longitudinaJly to a wire of tin is , as we have seen , less than 2 per unit .
eriment X VIII .
A strip of zinc-foil of nearly the same dimensions as the strips of iron and tin last used was tested with loads varying from 50 to 100 kilogs .
A stress of 50 kilogs .
produced a permanent decrease of resistance amounting to 0091 per unit , 70 kilogs .
a decrease of 02 per unit , and with 100 kilogs .
the foil was partly pulled away from the clamps ; before this , however , the temporary decrease of resistance produced by 50 kilogs .
was ascertained to be per unit .
After the accident the foil was secm.ely reclamped , and now three trials with 50 kilogs .
gave alteration of temporary resistance amounting to 010 , 017 and 010 respectively , the load in the second of the three trials having been allowed to remain for a longer period on the foil than was the case in the other two trials .
It was then evident that the time during which the load was allowed to remain on the foil largely influenced the temporary alteration of resistance , and accordingly several experiments were made with a view to verify this fact , which was eventually abundantly established .
In one of these experiments aload of 70 kilogs .
, after having been put on and taken off several times , was allowed AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL to remain on for 10 minutes , when a decrease of 0428 per unit was measured ; after 20 minutos the decrease amounted to per unit , part of the decrease produced after the first 10 minutes was permanent , but a considerable part was temporary .
The foil was now tested with loads of 12 and 20 kilogs .
, the latter causing a decrease of resistance represented by 300 divisions of the platino-iridium wire , and the former 180 , that is , the decrease was exactly proportional to the load .
From these results it calculated that a transverse stress .
per square centimetre would produce a decrease of resistance amounting to as against , t , he alteration caused by the same longitudinal stress in a zinc wire ; the alteration in the former case is about 28 times that in the latter .
Again , assuming that the values of and are the same for the foil as for the wire , the decrease of specific resistance which would be caused by transverse strain sufficient to double the width of the strip would be 95 per unit ; whilst the alteration for the same of longitudinal stress is about 2 per unit .
The temporary decrease of resistance of zinc and tin appeared to be so very large , that it was suspected that the silk did not properly insulate the foil from the upper and lower clamps ; but this did not seem to be the case , as the resistance was the same before and after clamping ; nor could the stress have temporarily impaired the insulation , as if so the same large decrease would have been obtained with iron .
It would thus appear that , at any rate for the metals zinc and tin , the effect on the electrical resistance of stress perpendicular in direction to the lin of flow of the current is the reverse in evely respect of that of stress applied longitudinally .
In the case of iron we have seen that though the resistance is on the whole decreased , the mere change of form would more than account for the decrease ; and that unless the amount of lengthening which any given load per square centimetre can produce is much less with iron-foil than with iron wire the specific resistance is increased .
One of the most remarkable features of these experiments is the large influence of time on the temporary alteration produced by the heavy loading of zinc and tin .
similar influence , though not to the same extent , was noticed with aluminium , zinc , and tin when great longitudinal stress was employed , and with these metals also for both directions of stress , the departure from proportionality between the load and the alteration produced thereby became very marked , though here again much more so when transverse than when ]ongitudinal stress was applied .
THE ALTERATION OF CTRICA [ CoNDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY STRESS APPLIED EQUALLY IN ALL DIRECTIONS .
attempts and mode of determining of the meltingpoint of ice .
So far back as the winter of 1877 I attempted to detect and measure the effect on the electrical conductivity of wires produced by such alterations of fluid ressure as could be obtained by means of the air-pump only , being under the impression at that time that the change of conductivity caused by rise of temperature was due for the most part to mere expansion .
In the first attempt the wire to be tested , a silk-covered copper wire about 12 feet in length and of an inch in diameter , after having been well soaked in melted parafJin wax was coiled in a spiral and placed in a thin , hollow , brass tube ( fig. 13 ) , having an diameter of centims. and a length of 15 cent ms .
Fig. 13 .
The ends of the wire were soldered to stout copper wires A , which passed air-tight through an indiarubber cork and served to connect the wire under examination with the comparison-wire .
The latter having its ends soldered to the two stout copper wires , was wound double round the outside of the hollow cylinder , and was , together with and , secured to the cylinder by string ; the comparison-wire had also been soaked in melted paraffin wax , and the four stout wires , , and their junctions with the other wires , well coatedwith shellac varnish .
The two wires , which as usual were of the same dimensions and substance , were joined up with the other parts of the bridge in the manner already described , and the tube served to connect AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the cylinder with an air-pump and barometer-gauge .
The whole arrangement having been placed in a box the cylinder was well packed uP in sawdust , and after a sufficient time had been allowed to elapse to enable the temperature of the wires to become constant the experiments began .
This plan entirely failed , the effect of the alteration of pressure on the resistance of the wire being completely masked by the change of temperature caused by the rarefaction or condensation of the air even when a considerable time had been allowed to elapse .
The condensation and rarefaction of the air would change of resistance the opposite to that looked for as the result of change of pressure ; and so slowly did the temperature alter after the first half-hour that I began to suspect that ofpressure caused increase of resistance , and for some days actually tried to measure the of resistance apparently caused by increase of pressure .
Finding , however , that the observations did not agree sufficiently with each other I filled the cylinder with water and immersed it in a large glass vessel , also with water , which was stirred from time to time .
This plan also failed , the compression of the water causing an effect in the same direction though not to the same extent as the compression of the air had done .
It was noticed , however , that after the air was let into the vessel there was no change of resistance till .
second or so fterluards .
Finally , the following method was adopted : vessel containing the wire to be tested consisted ( fig. 14 ) of a brass cylinder closed at one end , and which could Fig. 14 .
be closed at the other by a brass cover A A. The vessel was about 7 inches deep and 6 inches in internal diameter ; the open end and the cover which closed it having been carefully ground , so that with the help of a little grease it could be made perfectly air-tight .
The wire under examination was wound double on the outside of a very thin brass cylinder , and the the wire were soldered to the stout copper wires , which latter passed through an indiarubber cork , fitting airtight into a tube about 1 inch in diameter , which was oldered into the vessel and made an angle of with the side .
The comparison-wire was wound double round the outside of the large cylinder , the two stout copper wires , to which the ends of the wire were soldered , were connected in the same way as before with and the other parts of the bridge .
The whole arrangement of wires and cylinders was placed in a wooden box having holes cut in one of the sides to admit of the connexions and passing through , and this box was in turn placed inside a larger one , so that the space between the two boxes could be filled with sawdust .
The mode of proceeding was as follows :First , ice broken into small pieces was packed into a layer about 3 inches thick round the larger of the two cylinders , then , after an interval of about half-an-hour , both the large cylinder and were filled with pounded ice , the cover put on , and over it placed a large sheet of paper containing sawdust .
The tube served to form by of indiarubber tubing connexion with the air-pump , and after a sufficient time had been allowed to make the balance of the two wires constant the experiments began .
This plan seemed to act admirably .
A short time after exhausting the air there seemed to be an increase of resistance , and on letting in the air again a decrease .
After each operation with the air-pump the were tested at intervals of 10 minutes , until it was certain that the full effect on the resistance of the alteration of the pressure had been produced .
Each experiment lasted more than one hour , and it was only possible to make two or three experiments before the ice had to be readjusted round the wires ; as evidently after some three hours , though there might be no appreciable melting of the ice , the showed that one or other of the wires was not quite at the temperature of the ice .
The following are the results obtained:\mdash ; Experiment XIX .
teration o AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
In these experiments , the divided wire was of German-silver , each division being equal to 00021105 ohm at the temperature of the room , and since 10 ohms were used at each end of the wire , the alteration of resistance represented by moving the sliding-piece over one division of the wire would equal whole , the effect of one-tenth of a division was readily perceptible , and the second place of decimals in the above columns were got by taking the mean of several observations at each pressure .
From the above results it was calculated that the decrease of resistance per unit produced by an increase of fluid-pressure of 1 .
per square centimetre would be On showing these results , however , to Professor G. G. STOKES , he suggested that sufficient account had not been taken of the fact that the alteration of pressure might affect the resistance by altering the melting-point temperature of the ice , though , as I thought , the ice would not be wet in the inner cylinder , as the tempera- ture of the room at the time was frequently almost at C. , and the cylinder well surrounded by ice on the outside to affect the result in this way .
Neyertheless , acting on this suggestion , I carefully determined the inciease of resistance at C. for a rise of 1o C. , in the manner adopted by ATTHIESSEN , and found this to be 0038587 per unit of ce .
Now , J. THOMSON was led by theoretical considerations to the conclusion that the melting-point temperature of water would be lowered 007 C. by an increase of one atmosphere of pressure , and the matter was put to experimental tesb by W. , who arrived at results agreeing almost exactly with this conclusion .
If we assume one atmosphere to be equal to 76 centims. of mercury , or 1034 grms. per square centimetre , the lowering of temperature produced by a pressure of 1 , per square centimetre on the melting-point of ice should be C. Now , if the alteration of resistance was entirely due to change of temperature in the melting-point of the ice , my experiments would give a lowering of temperature for a pressure of 1 .
per square centimetre equal to , i.e. , to0000072 C. This result then led me to believe that either there was no change of resistance produced by the pressure merely , or , as subsequently proved to be the case , that the alteration of pressure was too small to produce an appreciable effect even with the very delicate galvanometer which I was using .
I also remembered that , when water had been employed , as in the previous experiment , as has been before mentioned , there was no appreciable effect immediately after the air had been let into the vessel .
Moreover , I called to mind that on two occasions when the temperature of the room was almost exactly C. there was no effect , when , as in the last experiments , ice had been used , even for some 10 or 20 minutes after using the pump ; but in this case I had attributed the absence of effect to the regelation of the ice over the cylinder * Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinburgh , Jitn .
, 1840 .
Cambridge and Dublin Math. JournaI , Nov. round which the wire was wrapped , and had taken the trouble several times to take off the cover and loosen the ice .
I have now no doubt that the warmth of the hand in this last act had melted the ice sufficiently to allow the alteration of the meltingpoint temperature to be felt .
Thou these experiments were failures as far as the immediate object in view was , they a delicate and accurate thermometer the galvanometer can prove , and that an interesting investigation of the lowering of the melting-point temperature of could be made by using a ication of the above apparatus suitable for pressures of two or three hundred atmospheres , such will be described presently .
SUCCESSFUL ATTEMPTS AND RESULTS .
The previous trials having shown that pressures of several atmospheres must be resorted to if one was to hope to measure any alteration of resistance which might be produced by fluid-pressure , the following apparatus ( fig. 15 ) was employed:\mdash ; is a strong made of gun-metal ( drawn to scale in fig. 15 one-sixth of the real size ) , are two binding screws at the ends of two stout brass wires passing water-tight through a cover , , and separated from the latter by insulating material .
This cover could be removed at will , and the ends of the wire to be tested , X , X , connected by two small binding screws ( shown in the figure unscrewed ) , at the lower ends of the stout brass wires .
After the wire had been well secured to A and , these latter , the wire itself and those portions of the stout brass wires which projected below the cover , were well coated with paraffin wax .
The vessel having been filled with The effect on the resistance of the wire is so very ] ] as to be almQSt n , and the correction even for this can be made by data which are givcn further on .
( See p. 77 , Table AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCEiS .
water , the cover with the wire suspended from it was put on and secured by means of three screws and nuts , two of which , , are shown in the figure , the cover having been made to fit water-tight under the highest pressures employed , by means of a gutta-percha collar .
The wire X and the comparison-wire were then connected up in the usual way , as shown in the figure , the whole well-covered with baize .
The first wire which was tried was a piece of the copper wire used in the last experiments , and a day having been selected at which the temperature was about C. , pressure was put upon the wire by means of a force-pump which formed part of a ulic press .
The pump communicated with the vessel by means of the tube , and was capable of ] ying a pressure of upwards of .
on the square inch .
The pressure was measLlred by a strong pressure-gauge , divided so as to read to a pressure of lbs. on the square inch .
On working the pump so as to increase the pressure there was , after a short ti .
no , decided decrease of resistance perceptible , and on removing the the resistance returned to almost its former value .
Scveral attempts were made with greater and greater pressures , which were carried up to .
on the square inch , and all gave indications in the same direction ; but unfortunately , on raising the pressure to .
on the re inch , the insulating round one of the stout brass wires cracked , and allowed the water to come through the cover .
As these trials were only intended to be preliminary , no measurements had been taken of the of produced , but there was now no question that in the case of copper wire increase of pressure produced decrease of electrical resistance .
These experiments could not be renewed till the following winter , when the flaw mentioned above having been repaired , some fresh trials were made with iron wire and the following measurements taken:\mdash ; iridi ihich ordi tNumber oisions ohethe banreo m * In the actual experiments X was secured to the vessel by string , the connexions having been ] ] insulated by wrapping them up in paper .
This pump was lent to me by the Rev. T. A. COCK , of King 's College , who kindly had it put into complete working order before I used These results give an alteration of per unit in the resistance for a pressure of 1 .
per square centimetre , and as in the case of copper increase of pressure produces diminution of resistance .
The experiments were again put an end to by a flaw in the insnlation , which was made on attempting to carry the pressure to a greater extent , and therefore the final l.esult can only be considered as very roughly correct .
Fortunately , however , there is a means of testing approximately the accuracy of this result , as it was found at ffie temperature of the room ( about C. ) the heat caused by the compression of the metal exactly balanced the effect of the pressure on the wire\mdash ; so exactly , indeed , that even when pressures of .
per square inch were employed , the instant after the of the pressure there was no change in the , but in a few seconds afterwards the resistance began to decrease , and apparently attained a minimum in about half an hour .
About this fact there can be no doubt , as it was repeated several times and with sevaeral different pressures .
Now.the change of temperature produced by an alteration of fluid pressure amounting to 1 .
per square centimetre is for any substance equal to \mdash ; , where the absolute temperature , the coefficient of cubical expansion , J JOULE'S equivalent , and the specific heat referred to unit volume .
In this case at the temperature C. Therefore the rise of temperature caused by an increase of pressure of 1 .
per square centimetre would be 00000026 C. ; and since the increase of resistance of the wire for 1o C. at C. had by preliminary experiments been determined to be almost exactly per unit of resistance , the increase of resistance due to the heat of compression would be , or result which agrees fairly with that arrived at by direct experiment .
After making these experiments I was glad to find that CHWOLSON had succeeded in measuring the effect of fluid pressure in the cases of copper , lead , and hard brass , and with these three metals observed that increase of fluid pressure produced decrease of electrical resistance .
In the next table are given the results of CHWOLSON'S and my own experiments , in centimetre gramme units . .
Acad. of St. Petersburg Bull .
, March , 1881 , and ' Nature , ' June 2 , 1881 , p. 112 .
AND STRAIN ON THE OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Explanation of and remarks A few words necessary on the methods of ca]culating the numbers given in columns five and seven .
If be the coefficient of longitudinal elasticity , and the ratio of lateral contraction to elongation , it can easily be proved that if we subject a wire to a fluid pressure of 1 .
per square centimetre , the decrease in length per unit thereby produced will be .
If then A denote the decrease per unit of resistance produced by the pressure , it follows that the decrease attending pressure which would suffice to halve the length of the wire would be , and in this way the numbers in column five have been determined from those in column two ; the values of and being those given in Part I. , with the exception of the value of for brass , which has been taken from MALLOCK'S paper , as I have reason to believe that the values of obtained by me for this metal are too large .
Again , since the pressure would for such small amounts as are used here cause a decrease of section which would be double the decrease of length , the effect of the pressure in merely altering the dimensions would be to increase the resistance by1 per unit .
In order , therefore , to deduce the values in column seven from those in column five we have only to increase the former by 1 .
It will be noticed that the total alteration of resistance produced by the fluid pressure is in all cases less than the alteration produced by the same amount of dinal stress , the ratio of the latter alteration being to that of the former as : 1 ; but that the alteration of resistance when the change of length produced by the two kinds of stress is , except in the case of lead , greater when fluid pressure is *Proc .
Royal Society , June , 1879 .
employed than with longitudinal stress , and that the alteration of specific resistance is much greater for the former kind of stress than for the latter , the ratio being about 2 .
The small alterations of resistance which can be produced by fluid pressure as shown in this table prove also how impossible it would have been to detect with such changes of pressure as can be effected an air-pump any alteration of resistance due directly to compression , and therefore the value of the mode of experlmenting already alluded to in determining the amount of lowerin of the temperature of the freezmg-point of water by pressure : in fact , the change of resistance due to the lowering of the tem- perature of the melting-point of ice by the pressure would be more than 22 times the change of resistance due to the pressure only .
A brief considerat , ion also suffices to show that the alteration of resistance due to any change of temperature is in all cases very much eater that which would follow from the same change of volume produced by mechanical stress ; this will be seen at once from a glance at the next table .
TABLE VII .
Nameof .
We see from this last table bhat the alteration of resistance due to any change of temperature is in the case of the four metals , lead , copper , iron , and brass , from 30 to nearly 100 times as great as that whid ] would follow from the same change of volume produced by mechanical agency ; and it would appear , again , therefore , that the increase of resistance caused by rise of temperature is principally due to other causes than mere expansion .
ALTERATION 0F RESISTANCE PR0DUCED BY LONGITUDINAL TRACTION .
Limit of elasticity .
on the permanent alteration of resistance produced by traction possess considerable advantages in determining the limit of elasticity over the methods usually adopted .
In the first place , it is possible to detect much more minute elongations , even though very small lengths of the wire be oyed , than would be the AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
case if 100 feet of the wire could be tested in the ordinary way with the cathetometer , and in the second , all errors arising from the wires not being perfectly straight at the commencement of the experiments are entirely avoided .
Tloe limit of elasticit.by previou.loading .
ROBERT THALEN with , no doubt , others has shown that in the cases of iron and steel the limit of elasticity be raised by previous loading .
This was found to be so for all the metals examined , and the next experiment furnishes a fair example of the kind .
An annealed copper wire was very carefullly loaded and unloaded by allowing water to flow slowly into and out of a pail attached to it , and bhe permanent increase of resistance determined after each ding .
The water enbered the pail from avessel containing .5814 grms. of the liquid , and this ntity took minutes to pass into or out of the pail .
* Pogg .
Antl .
, April , 1861 and Phil. Mag. , December , ) points .
THALEN has also that if a curve be drawn having for its ordinates and corresponding abscissae lines proportional respectively to the permanent extensions and the load producing them , there is a point of maximum vature , where the increase of length becomes suddenly large compared with the load , and suggests this point , which appears to be nearly at the same part of the curve for different specimens of iron and steel , as a suitable substitute for the so-called ' ' limit of elasticity My own investigations haVe shown that there exist in every metal two such points , which I have called critical points , and these are evidently very closely related to the moduli of elasticity .
The first of these critical points is one that must of necessity have escaped the notice of most observers of the elongation of wires in .
the usual manner , as the load required to straighten the wire sufficiently for observations made in this way is beyond this point .
Now in the present investigations it is not requisite to straighten the wire , and as the increase of resistance proves to be almost exactly proportional to the permanent elongation , it is evident that the curves showing the relations between permanent extension and load will be similar to those connecting permanent increase of resistance and load .
Experiment XXI .
furnishes a good example of the first critical point .
It will be seen that the first critical point occurs at the seventh measure , this producin a permanent increase of resistance the ratio of which to that produced by the previous measure is appreciably greater than any of the other similar ratios .
The following experiment is a sample of a series undertaken with a view to ascertain the position of the two critical points for the different metals .
*Phil .
Mag. , December , AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL XXlI .
A well-annealed silver wire was suspended for trial with the scale-pan attached , and loads increasing by 1 kilog .
at a time were put on for three and then removed , when the permanent increase of resistance was determined for each load .
Load in kilogs .
First critical point 7th Second critical point 10th Each division of the platinum-silver represents in this case an increase of resistance of only per cent. , and as the percentage of permanent elongation is half of this fraction , because the wire is decreased in section very nearly in the same proportion as it is increased in length , it follows that the total gation produced by all the loads up to the first critical point inclusive , does not exceed cent. The case of iron .
The behaviour of iron under longitudinal traction is very remarkable ; this metal , if the load be applied in small quantities at a time , is seen at certain points to become perfectly rigid , so that the further application of stress does not produce any further permanent elongation until the load has reached a certain value , when , once more commences .
Further , iron possesses three critical points at least , and may be found to have more ; these points are well shown in Experiment XXIII .
* This was first noticed by J. T. BOTTOMLEY ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 197 , 1879 ) , who kindly lent me some of the same kind of wire as that used by himself .
Perhaps other metals may have more than two critical points , which might be discovered by loading the wires more gradually .
IvIDCCCLXXXIII , It will be seen from the above experiment that there is a critical point at the 8th kilog .
, ) other at the 14th kilog .
, and a third at the 17th kilog .
The two critical points were determined in all cases by finding the two points where the ratio of the increases of resistance produced by consecutive equal loads is greatest ; the next experiment furnishes an example of the method adopted .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHySTCAL FORCES .
The weight of the scale-pan , pulley , \amp ; c. , was kilogs .
, or kilogs .
on each part of the wire , therefore the total load at the first critical point is equal to kilogs .
, and that at the second kilogs .
Now the section of the wire at the two points is 00883 and 00876 per square centimetre ; hence the load at the first critical point is 1274 and at the second 2197 kilogs .
per square centimetre .
In Table VIII .
will be found the loads at the two critical points and their relation to " " YOUNG'S modulus * In this , as in several other experiments , the first of the ratios of consecutive increases is greater than several of those which follow , but this is probably due to the fact that the weight of the scale-pan had been acting on the wire for some hours previous to the period of actual testing .
Remarks on Table VIIl .
It is evident from the last table that the loads both at the first and second critical points , in he case of each substance , bear a constant ratio to the corresponding value of " " YOUNG'S modulus there being quite as much difference between the several ratios and for the three specimens of copper as for the various metals .
The time during which the load was allowed to act was in all cases the same , namely , three minutes and the wire was relieved of all weight except that of the scale-pan before determining its alteration of resistance .
Experiment XXI .
having shown that the position of the critical points must be altered by the process of wire-drawing , it is necessary that very great care should be taken in ] the wire if we wish to determine the true position of these points for any substance whose particles are to be free mutual strain previous to beginning the experiments .
The theoretically correct definition of the " " limit of elasticity\ldquo ; would be the highest load per unit of surface which a wire can bear without undergoing the slightest permanent elongation .
It is clear , however , that we cannot , even with the utmost care , obtain a substance which will have its particles in a perfectly homogeneous condition , and it will of necessity happen that some of the particles are on the point of passing the elastic limit or , at any rate , that some are much nearer this limit than others , before any external stress has been applied .
Consewe can never hope to obtain the true value of the elastic limit by merely endeavouring to observe the first trace of a permanent elongation , our power to do so depending upon the delicacy of our instruments ; but we can accomplish our object in all probability by determining the point at which the ratio of the elongation and the stress producing it reaches its first maximm .
I would venture , therefore , to suggest , that the first of the two so-called critical points be taken to represent the true " " limit of elasticity\ldquo ; of a well-annealed substance , and to agree with THALEN that neither the method of measuring the limit of elasticity by the greatest load which will produce sensible permanent elongation , nor the purely arbitrary one adopted by WERTHEIM and others of fixing an elongation of the unit length as corresponding to this limit , is desirable .
* Except in the case of copper ( 8 ) where five minutes was allowed .
It is certainly not sufficient to heat a wire to redness for a few minutes , and then allow it to cool slowly ; the high temperature must be maintained in some cases for a considerable the .
The second of the critical points is evidently the same as that suggested by THALEN as being suitable for measuring the limit of elasticity ( Phil. Mag. , December , 1866 ) , but I think that the second point is rather the precursor of breakage than of the passage of the elastic limit .
AND STRAIN ON ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Critical points of The positions of the critical points of these metals have not been satisfactorily determined though several trials were made for that purpose , and in some of these great care was taken to load by very small amounts at a time and to aJlow each weight to remain on the wire for a considerable period ; in the following experiment each load was left on the wire for 48 hours:\mdash ; If we regard the second load as the load the first critical point , and the eighth as the load at the second critical point , we obtain for the loads at the two critical points respectively the values 48 kilogs .
per square and 74 kilogs .
per square centimetre ; in this case would , and , both these numbers being much larger than the values of and for the metals in Table VIII .
With tin , also , the loads at the first and second critical points , as far as the latter could be determined , seemed much less in proportion to the value of than was the case with most of the other ] In Table IX .
the permanent increase per cent. of resistance produced by longitudinal traction is shown for each metal by a series of curves ; and these curves will also show very fairly the permanent increase per cent. of length produced , since the former is very nearly equal to twice the latter .
kilogs : per square centimetre added for the permanent load , consisting of pulley , I am inclined , however , to attach very little value to the observations made on the critical points of lead and tin ; very probably better results might be obtained by using wires of much gl.eater section than those here employed .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Explanation of on Table IX .
The curves are in most cases divided into two parts , the lower part representing the crease of resistance per cent. up to and a little beyond the first critical point , and the upper one the increase up to and beyond the second critical point .
The abscissae represent the increase of resistance per cent. for the lower curves on a scale of 40 millims. to unit increase per cent. , and for the upper ones on a scale of 80 millims. to unit increase per cent. The ordinates represent the load per square centimetre in kilogrammes , and are on a scale of 40 millims. to each 1000 kilogs .
for the lower curves and of 80 millims. to each 1000 kilogs .
for the upper ones .
The upper curves start from the horizontal lines drawn through their lower extremities , and the starting points on these lines are set off at distances representing on the scale for the upper curves the increase of resistance already : also opposite each horizontal line is placed the number of kilogrammes per square centimetre already put on to the wire .
In all cases the of coordinates is marked X , T. Thus , for example , the upper extremity of the lower copper curve has an abscissa millims. and an ordinate of 48 millims , therefore the load at this point is or 2400 kilogs .
per square centimetre ; and the increase of resistance is or 8 per cent. Similarly the upper extremity of the upper copper curve has an abscissa of millims. and an ordinate reckoned from the horizontal line passing through the lower extremity of the curve of millims. , therefore the total load is or 1790 kilogs .
per square centimetre , and the increase of resistance or per cent. In order to include lead and tin in the same table it was found necessary to reckon the load on a scale of 2 millims. to 1 kilog .
per square centimetre , the increase of resistance on the same scale as that used for the lower curves of the other metals .
Moreover , to the load registered in the table there should be added for these kilogs .
per square cent.imetre , this representing the permanent load on the wires .
It will be observed that there is in most cases a considerable resemblance between the forms of the upper and lower curves , and that in the case of iron the curve near the two critical points becomes very nearly a vertical straight line .
The critical points of nickel .
We have seen that the electrical resistance of nickel is altered in a peculiar manner by temporary longitudinal traction , and we might expect , therefore , that the effect of permanent extension would perha , ps be different in the case of this metal , both in character and extent , from what it is with other substances .
This is found to be so , alud Table X. shows that ths total permanent alteration of resistance produced by permanent extension is in the first instance of the nature of a decrease , bnt that , after a certain load has been reached , the resistance gins , as in other metals , to increase The curves Table X. are drawn with their abscissae to represent the alteration of the lower one on scale of 1 of the ptdium wlre to the millimetre , and for the upper one on a scale of ions of the wire to the millimetre .
TABLh1 X.\mdash ; Curve showing the total permanent alteration of electrical resistance produced by longitudinal traction from 10 to kilogs .
, and curve showing the permanent total alteration of electrical resistance produced by longitudinal traction from to 14 kilogs .
In both curves the ordinates represent the number of kilogrammes on the to a scale of 2 kilog .
to the millimetre .
The lower curve which represents the pelmanent alteration of resistance produced by loads up to 14 kilogs .
, shows hat the rosistance decreases to an extent which is nearly proportional to the load up to 6 kilogs .
; here a sudden leap is made of rapid decrease of resistance , but on reaching the next load , 8 kilogs .
, the curve turns , and just at the 12th kilog .
there occurs a sudden and rapid increase of resistance .
The upper curve which starts from the 10th kilog .
shows that the rapid increase begun at the 12th kilog .
is continued to an extent which is nearly proportional to the load up to the breaking point of the wire , The nature of AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF ICAL FORCES .
these curves would seem to show critical points at the 6th , 8th , and 12th kilogs .
, but as the effect on the specific of this metal was found to be very great in comparison with that of the other snbstances , it was evident that the clitical points as understood to mean points of sudden increase of length compared with the load producing it could not safely be deduced from the curve showing the total alteration of resistance .
The critical points have therefore been deduced from direct observations of the permanent increase of length produced by each load , and the results of these observations are shown in the curve of Table XI .
This curve has its abscissae representing the permanent increase of length on a scale millim. of increase of length to the millimef , re and its ordinates the load in kilogrammes on a scale of 2 kilog .
to the millimetre .
From the observations of increase of length the first critical point was determined to be at the load 2200 kilogs .
per square centimetre and the second at the load 3100 kilogs .
per sqdare centimetre .
THE INFLUENCE OF TIME ON THE AMOUNT PERMANENT INCREASE OF RESISTANCE OR OF LENGTH WHICH CAN BE PRODUCED BY LONGITUDINAL STRESS , It is well known to all who have made investigations in the subject of elasticity , that the permanent increase of length which can be produced by a given amount of longitudinal stress depends largely upon the time during which the stress is allowed to itct , and as it was expect a that eriments on the permanent increase of ance would throw some light on this influence of time , several trials were made with a view of whether a wire will , when under the action of considerable stress , show greater and greater increase of length until it breaks , or whether the time-curve of its increase of length will be asymptotiC Experimen A piece of copper ( 3 ) having been loaded for some time with six measures of water was still further loaded with one measure , this being allowed to enter very slowly mto the pail attached to the wire ; the current from a DANIELL'S element was kept flowing through the " " bridge\ldquo ; circuit , and the alteration of resistance observed by noting the position of the light on the scale .
From the last experiment we learn that , though the wire had been so carefully loaded and the room free from vibrations of any sort , the increase of resistance did not , shortly loading , take place smoothly , but the difference of increase of resistance for consecutive minutes became alternately greater and less .
In the next experiment the increase of resistance is measured by the number of divisions of the platino-iridium wire through which it was necessary to move the sliding-piece in order tc restore the balance , and the times recorded are those taken to produce the increase of resistance .
* Each scale-division here represents an alteration of resistance equal to about ten-millionths of the whole .
AND STRAIN ON ACTION OF PHySICAL ] The same wire as in the last experiment was allowed to down for a few minutes longer , and then the following observations were made:\mdash ; It is to be noticed that here the increase of resistanc.e takes place more regularly ; and though the ratios of consecutive times are not very constant , it would seem that the times form a geometrical progression , since the time for the last increase of resistance , as calculated from the formula , where denotes the time , is 422 minutes\mdash ; a number agreeing sufficiently well with the observed time .
The wire was afterwards loaded more and more , and the values of the ratios of consecutive times , as determined in the same manner as in the last experiment , are recorded in Table XII .
We learn from Table .
that the ratios of consecubive times become more and more constant as load on the wire is made larger and larger , and therefore that the velocities of increase of resistance for small equal increments of resistance form a geometrical In orde to make the mean values of the common ratios comparable with each other , the common ratios calculated for equal increments of resistance of 1 per cent. are recorded in the last column ; the calcul tion was effected by raising the observed ratio in the last .
but one to the power obtained by iding .
by the percentage values of the equal increments of resistance given in the fourth column .
For example , with a load of 1448 kilogs .
per square centimetre , the common ratio of the geometrical progression found by the times taken for the load to increase the resistance by successive percentage amounts of 0314 was found to be 135 , therefore the ratio which would have ensued , if the times taken to increase through 1 per cent. had been observed , would have been or Again , the loads in kilogrammes per square centimetre given in the third column are calculated from the resistances given in the first colunJn in the following manner : let and be the sections of the wire before and after stretching , and let the correspondin resistances be , and the lengths and ; then , provided that there be no change in the specific resistance of the metal ; also , or , provided that the stretching does not alter the density .
we shall see that neither the density nor the specific resistance is altered by stretchto any extent sufficient to introduce any error , therefore we have within a sufficiently close approximation , or .
Thus the section having been determined , it is easy to ascertain the section after any amount of stretching .
For example , the section of the wire last used was before stretching 0183 square centim. , and the resistances before and after the stretching were and respectively , therefore the section of the wire after stretching would be nearly , and the actual load on the wire being measures of water or kilogs .
, the load per square centimetre would be kilogs .
kilogs .
In all cases the resistances recorded in the first column are the means tween the resistances observed at the commencement and of the times during which the velocities of increase were , and the wire was allowed to run down for some ( abont 20 minutes)before the observations of the velocities of increase commenced .
It is , moreover , evident from the last column in the table that the common ratio of the geometrical becomes less and less as the load becomes larger and STRAIN ON ACTiON OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
larger , and we might expect to find some relation between the decrease of velocity of increase of resistance and the difference between the breaking-load and the load actually on the wire .
A further examination of the results given in Table XII .
shows that a relation does exist of an extremely simple nature ; in fact , if we denote the breaking-load and the actual load on the wire by and respectively , the decrease per unit of the velocity of increase of resistance is proportional to The value of was carefully determined by loading pieces of the wire moderate amounts at a time , and allowing each load to remain on the wire some ten minutes before each further addition , and measuring the diameter close to the point of breat.age by means of a wire-gauge graduated to 01 millim. The mean of several trials gave a value for of 2625 kilogs .
per square Now if , \amp ; c. , are the times taken to increase the resistance by qsive equal and small amounts , ) ratios \amp ; c. , have been proved to be constant for the same value of : let this constant be denoted by ; then the decrease per unit of the velocity of increase of resistance being will therefore and accordingly if the above-mentioned relation holds good , should constant for different values of .
The last column of the table gives the values of for the loads given in the third column , and the values of are for the four loads there recorded , 000519 , 000496 , 000484 , and 000504 , with mean value of 000501 .
The question next arises , will the ratio be the same other metals as for copper ?
for if so we can calculate the breaking-load by merely loading the wire beyond the second critical poin and observing the value of ; then , since With a view of ascertaining whether the breaking-load could be thus calculated , series of experiments with different metals was begun , the mode of operating bein similar to that just described in the case of copper , and the results are shown in the next table .
In the same table are also given the ratios of ) different moduli of longitudinal elasticity to the corresponding breaking-load .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE rRESS on Table XIII .
We learn from the above table how very closely in all cases the calculated breakingload agrees with the observed breaking-load , though the values of and of the percentages of increase of resistance for which the times were observed varied considerably .
What differences do exist are no greater than those between the values of the observed breaking load for different pieces of the same wire .
Since , also , the permanent increase of resistance produced when a wire is running down under the influence of a load is for small amounts nearly double the increase of length , we may determine the breaking load by observing the times taken by the load to produce successive equal increments of length to cent. , and use the same formula as above In estimating the breaking-load as has been mentioned , the diamqter of the wire was gauged in the immediate lleighbourhood of the breaking-point ; and this is necessary if we wish to determine the true breaking-load in kilogrammes per square centimetre , inasmuch as , however uniform in diameter , and however carefully annealed * It should be noticed that the value of as used in the formula is'greater than unity , and is obtained by dividing the succeedinJ by the precedin , time of accomplishing any two consecutive increments of resistance or of length .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the wire may have been before stretching , the latter action is sure to diminish the diameter at some parts of the wire more than at others , and eventually the wire at that part at which the greatest contraction has taken place .
If a wire could be obtained of perfect uniformity of diameter and substance , the contraction would gradually increase from each end to the centre where it would be greatest , and at this point the wire would break .
It is interesting to watch this gradual increase of contraction from the two ends to the middle in the case of a testbar of ductile iron or steel , and through the kindness of Sir JOSEPH WHITWORTH I was able to make the following experiment on such a bar of -pressed steel , the specimen having been selected as suitable for this purpose in consequence of its great ductility .
The bar had a total length of 6 Jches before stretching , but a screw was formed , 2 inches in length see , at each end for the purpose of securing the bar in the framework of the hydraulic press employed to stretch it .
The diameter of the bar between the two screws was before testing inch , and after each stretchin the bar was remoyed from the press and the length and diameter re-determined : the results obtained are recorded in the next table .
It will be noticed that the ratio of permanent contraction of diameter to the permanent elongation is as sensibly constant as could have been expected from the way in which the diameter had to be measured , namely , by until the * WHITWOltTH'S measuring-machine would have been employed for this purpose as it was for the increase of length , had uot the curving of the bar produced by the stretching rendered such instrument unsuitable .
breaking-load nearly reached , when the contraction begins very suddenly to increase .
Fig. is from aphotograph of asimilar specimen , broken after stretching , and shows the gradual contraction from the ends to the centre and the sudden increase of contraction at this point .
In the diameter of the broken wires the gauge was placed close to the place of this sudden contraction .
It appears also from Table XIII .
that there a certain amount of between the breaking-load and the modulus of longitudmal elastlclty ; however , having too ] a breaking-load and silver too high in comparison with the modulus of when asted with the other metals .
It should be remembered that in the case of the former metal the loads at the critical points were less in proportion to the elasticity than was the case with the other metals , and if we regard the breaking-point as a third critical point , it would appear that these three critical points are in the case of well wires related to each other roughly in the ratios of 1 : : 2 or of 2 : 3 : 4 .
THE PERMANENT ALTERATION OF SPECIFIC STSTANCE CAUSED BY STRESS .
We have seen that the alteration of specific resistance which can be temporarily produced by longitudinal traction is very small , but then the temporary lengthening is small also .
Now we can with wires which have been well annealed produce , in most cases , a far more considerable nanent increase of length , and it seemed desirable to ascertain whether there would be a correspondingly large change in the specific resistance of the substance .
Three different of experimenting were tried : the first , the wire to be tested and the comparison-wire were clamped into the blocks already described , and were then stretched at full length on the floor and side by side ; the short block , into which one end of the wire to be stretched was clamped , was placed behind two stout screws , which were into the floor to about one half of.their length , and about one inch apart ; the wire passed between these screws , and the other end of it which was clamped into the longer brass block was pulled by hand until it was quite straight a mark on the block which traversed a wooden scale divided into millimetres , and secured to the floor by screws in a position parallel to the length of the wire , serving to measure the length of the wire .
It was ascertained that after a ]jttle practice the readings could be depended upon to within at least 1 millim. or about of the whole length .
After thus suring the length , the wires were placed in the airchamber already described , and after the usual precautions , the ratio of their resistances tested ; a weight was now placed on the pulley for three minutes and then removed , when the wire was permitted to remain free from stress for 10 minutes , after which time a new determination of the ratio of the resistances of the wires was made , AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL The wires were now removed from the air-chamber and the one which lJad been stretched was remeasured .
The same processes were repeated after greater and greater loads until finally the wire was broken .
With some of the wires the specific gravity was determined after each stretching , but as the alteration of density was found to be very small with most of the substanc , the specific gravity was mined before the stretching had commenced , and again after the wire had been considerably elongated ; the density for intermediate amounts of stretching was calculated on the assumption that the change of density is proportional to the increase of length .
In the second method the wires were kept during the whole period of rvation in the air-chamber ; the hook on the pulley was connected by a fine copper yire , with a brass sliding piece provided with ] an index and capable of free vertical motion up and down a wooden scale .
The lower extremity of the sliding piece was slightly weighted , so as to keep the fine copper wire , which had been previously stretched very nearly to breaking , perfectly straight .
The hook on the pulley was also connected by a chain with a lever which seryed to elongate .
On commencing the experiments the weight of the lever was removed from the wire and the resistance of the latter was determined ; the position of the index was then noted and aftel.wards the lever was used to produce the require extension , when again the wire was relieved from stress and after a few minutes the resistance and length of the wire were redetermined .
In ihis way an alteration of length not exceeding of the whole could be readily measured , but as it was ascertained that in the case of certain wires it was necessary to remove entirely even the slighfest , such for instance as would be caused by the small weight of the pulley or of the sliding piece , before they would in a sufficiently short time their ultimate resistance , a third method was adopted as follows : \mdash ; The length of the wire to be examined having been measured as in the first method , it was placed , together with the comparison-wire , at full length in a long wooden box made for the purpose , the two wires having previously been wrapped as usual in paper or surrounded by caoutchouc tubing , and after a sufficient time had elapsed , ] about 15 minutes , to enable them to assume their ultimate ratio of resistance , this latter was determined .
The wires were then removed from the box , and the one to be tested stretched as in the first method to a certain extent ; they were then replaced , and after the proper time their resistance ratio redetermined .
At each removal of the wires from the box the connexions with the other parts of the bridge had to be disturbed ; but it was ascertained , as indeed might have been expected from the mode of experimenting , this did not in the least affect the value of the ratio of the resistances of the two wires .
A few examples will suffice to show bhe nature of the results obtained .
have frequently removed and replaced the co1mexions of the wires causing any altcratiun of resistance which would amount to of the whole . .
H. TOMLINSON oN ] OF STRESS Experiment VIII .
A wire of annealed silver , 8 feet in length and 085 centim. in diameter , stretched by loading .
Experiment XXIX .
A wire of annealed copper , 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter , stretched by hand .
Experiment XXX .
A wire of annealed iron , 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter , stretched by means of a lever , the stress produced by the weight of the lever being llowed to remain after the permanent extension been completed .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
nent XXXI .
A wire of annealed iron , 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter , stretched by hand .
eriment XXXII .
A wire of annealed nickel , 8 feet in length and 106 centim. in diameter , stretched by loading .
It will be observed that of the four metals\mdash ; silver , copper , iron and nickel\mdash ; the two former are at first increased in specific resistance , and that the increase only continues up to a certain amount of stretching when , having reached a maximum , it begin to decrease ; whilst with the two latter the first alteration of resistance is in the way of a decrease , which also after attaining a maximum begins to diminish , and with nickel there is soon a comparatively large increase .
Of nine metals which have been examined , iron and nickel are the only two which in the first instance show a decrease of specific resistance , whilst the remaining seven are similar to copper and silver in respect to the change of specific resistance due to permanent extension .
In the following table the effects of different amounts of permanent longitudinal extension on the specific resistance of copper , zinc , German-silver , nickel , platinum , iron , aluminium and silver are shown by a series of curves .
The abscissae of these curves represent the percentage alteration of specific resistance , and the ordinates the percentage alteration of length , the former on a scale of 0125 percentage alteration to the millimetre , and the latter on a scale percentage alteration to the millimetre ; AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Remarks on Table XV .
and XXVIII .
to XXXII .
inclusive .
It should be stated that before making any obselvation of the resistance or length , the wire was stretched about 2 per cent. of the length in order to render it sufficiently straight , and that the resistance and length after this are taken as the starting points from which the percentage alterations measured ; in the cases , however , of German-silver and nickel this was not done , as they were deemed to be sufficien lie straight without stretching , and , lmoreover , ot capable of much extension before breaking .
The curves are evidently of parabo ] shape , except perhaps in the case of nickel , whose behaviour seems to be quite abnormal .
With this metal the curve after passing to the left , showmg that the specific resistance is diminished xtension , takes a sharp turn round to the right , and , after passing almost yertically upwards , makes another bend afterwards , proceeding almost in a straight line .
Experiment XXXII .
, as well as the curve for nickel also , how much larger is the alteration of specific resistance , whether decreasing or increasing , in comparison to the alteration of length , than.is the case with any of the other metals .
By comparing Experiment XXX .
with Experiment XXXI .
, we see the effect of leaving a load on the wire after the ension has taken place ; the decrease of specific resistance of iron produced by a moderate amount of extension is in this case replaced by an increase .
Now we have seen in Part I. that the wire will not quite the length which it would have if entirely relieved from stress , but the change in resist is much larger than can be accounted for by any change of dimensions , and in some instances the effect of a much slighter restraint than was produced by the stress of the lever sufficed to make a very appreciable difference in the specific resistance .
The silver wire formed a remarkable example of the kind ; with this wire the specific gravity was determined after each stretching , and the resistance was measured both before and after the former operation , the only load left on the being that of the pulley , which produced a stress of a quarter of a kilogramme on each half of the wire .
The specific resistance after the different amount of stretchings recorded in Experiment XXVIII .
was decreased , 27 , 28 and 2 per cent. by rnerely removing the pulley and taking the wire down for the purpose of weighing it in water .
These alterations are , it is true , not absolutely large , but if we compare them with the total alteration of specific resistance given the third column*of the experiment , we see that they are relatively very considerable .
Moreover , in this case not the slightest alteration in the length of the wire caused by the removal of the pulley could be detected ; neither was the change brought about by the weighing in water , since a similar alteration was caused when the pulley was simply removed replaced without any such weighing ; nor , again , was it due to the restitution of conductivity , * The values given in this column are calcuJated from the rosist determined been cmd then r.eplaced .
which we shall learn presently that rest causes after strain , since the resistance was decreased by the removal and replacing of the pulley in one experiment 14 hours after the permanent extension had been made ; a much longer time , of course , elapsing in this case than was required in the above mentioned operations .
Again , though the curves are not capable of showing any sudden changes in the ratio of the alteration of the specific resistance , and the extension at the two critical points before alluded to , inasmuch as with most metals these points occur when a comparatively small amount of extension has taken place , yet it will be seen from Experiment XXVIII .
that with the increase of length caused by the load of kilogs .
there is a sudden increase of the ratio , and this load corresponds very closely with that at the second critical point of silver .
mmering .
W. THOMSON , in 1857 , experimented on the effects of hammering and pelYnanent extension on the electrical conductivity of copper , and though no actual numbers are given in his paper , states " " the greatest degree of brittleness produced by tension does not alter the conductivity of the metal by as much as one-half per cent He , moreover , adds : " " A similar experiment showed no more sensible effect on the con- ductivity of copper wire to be produced by hamtJlering The foregoing experiments , it will be seen , fairly bear out THOMSON'S statement with reference to the small amount of alteration produced in the specific resistance of copper by longitudinal extension , and show a still smaller change in the resistances of silver and platinum .
But since these experiments at the same time showed that the alteration after increasing to a maximum in one direction began to decrease , and certain cases finally set in in the opposite direction , it seemed desirable to ascertain whether han1mering would produce like effects on the specific resistance .
The third of the methods used in determining the change of specific esistance by extension was here employed , except that the wires were now lengthened by hammering them transversely .
The last process was accomplished rather by a great number of comparatively small blows than by a less number of large ones , so as to hammer the wire as uniformly as possible throughout its whole length The following are examples of the results arrived * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. viii .
, .
553 .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
A wire of annealed copper , 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter , hammered transversely throughout its entire length .
periment XXXTV .
A wire of annealed iron , 8 feet in length and centim. in diameter , hammel.ed transversely throughout its entire length .
In the next table will be found a series of curves showing the change of specific resistance produced by hammering on the metals iron , copper , zinc ; aluminium , Germansilver , and platinum-silver .
The abscissae showing the percentage alteration of specific resistance are on a scale of 05 per cent. for 1 millim. , and the ordinates representing the increase of length per cent. are on a scale per cent. for 1 millim. TABLE XVI.\mdash ; Curves showing the alteration of specific resistance produced by hammering .
Observation on the curves ?
Experiments XXXIII .
, XXXIV .
, and Table XVI .
show that the effect of hammering on the specific resistanco is of a somewhat similar character to that of permanent extension .
With all the metals , except iron , the specific resistance is at first increased , and this increase , after reaching a maximum , to diminish , but with iron the first effect is decrease of resistance which also , after attaining a maximum as the hammering is carried to a greater and greater extent , to diminish until finally there is a comparatively large increase of specific resistance .
The changes produced , however , by hammerin , though similar in kind to those produced by longitudinal extension , are very different in amount , and a comparison of the two sets of curves and the scales on which they are shows that the alterations in the former case are very much greater than those in the latter .
The neutral points ] , i.e. , the points where the curves cut the axis of ordinates , are different in the two tables , being for copper and iron much higher for the extension than for the mmering , but with zinc and German-silver for the extension than the hammering .
Torsion .
As it seemed desirable to supplement the observations of extension and Lammering with others on torsion , with the view of ascertaining whether the strain caused by AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
twisting a wire beyond the limits of elasticity would at all resemble the effect produced on the specific resistance by strain set up by the two former processes , experiments were made in which the wires having been secured at one end and stretched sufficiently to make them tjght , were twisted more and more until they broke .
Experiment XXX A wire of annealed zinc , 8 feet in length and centim in diameter , twisted .
Experiment XXXVI .
A wire of annealed iron , 8 feet in and 092 centim. in diameter , twisted .
In Table XVII .
are drawn a series of curves showing the changes produced by permanent torsion in the specific resistance of iron , copper , and platinum-silver .
The abscissae in these curves represent the percentage alteration of resistance on a scale to 1 millim. , and the ordinates representing the torsion in terms of the torsion of a complete revolution in a length of 1 centim. of the wire taken us unit on a scale to 1 millim. TABLE XVII.\mdash ; Curves showing the permanent alteration of specific resistance produced by permanent torsion .
Remarks on XVII .
The effect of torsion on the specific resistance is evidently of a similar nature to that of the effect of permanent extension and hammering , but the amount of alteration shown at the turning point of the curves is in all cases much less than that observed at the turning points of the curves exhibiting the results of hammering and extension .
In the case of iron , the first torsion applied increases the specific resistance , but further torsion acts in the same direction as the strain caused by hammering and extension , i.e. , diminishes the specific resistance up to a certain point , but beyond this point increases it .
It may be that the increase produced in iron by the first few turns is due to magnetic influence on the resistance , for as THOMSON has observed , the electric current instead of flowing rectilineally along the wire would flow in helical lines , and would therefore increase the resistance by longitudinal magnetization .
* W. THOMSON , " " Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals Phil. Trams .
1879 , Part I. , S 229 .
W. THOMSON , " " Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals Phil. Trans. 1856 .
kerian Lecture , S 146 , and H. , Proc. Boy .
Soc. , June 17 , 1875 .
[ Note added May , 1882.\mdash ; I have since found that very slight extension increases the specific resistance of iron , and am therefore inclined to reject the above hypothesis , and to believe that slight strain of any kind increases the specific resistance .
] AND STRAIN ON ACTION OF PHYSICAL ORCES .
It will be noticed also that bhe curves like those of Tables XV .
and XVI .
are of parabolic shape .
THE OF SPECIFIC GBAVITY PRODUCED BY HAMMERING , AND In calculatin the values of the specific resistance after the wire had been subjected to any one of the above-mentioned processes , it was in the first instance assumed that there was no change in the specific gravity of the substance , and afterwards a correction applied for such change .
The specific gravity of the wires in the annealed condition been determined , the change wrought by extension , hammering , or torsion carried to extent which was about three-fourths of that which the substance would bear without rupture was determined by a very delicate balance , and though it was not possible to dislodge any air bubbles which might be attached to the metal when immersed in water by boiling for fear of partially annealing the specimens , these bubbles were brushed off very carefully and considerable pains were taken in the weighings .
A very fine platinum wire was used for the purpose of suspending the substances in water , and the vessel employed for holding the water was of considerable size so as to avoid the necessity of bending the wire to any great extent .
The coils in which the wire umder examination was wound , when weighed , were kept together by fine copper wire , and the weight of this in air and water together with that of the fine platinum wire was from time to time determined .
The next expeliments show that the change in specific gravity is roughly proportional to the amount of strain , provided this strain is not continued up to the point of rupture .
nent XXX Wire of annealed silver , 8 feet in length and centim. in stretched by loading . .
Experiment XXXVIII .
A wire of annealed copper , 3 feet in length and centim. diameter , twisted .
In Table XVIII .
will be foumd the extent of change in the specific gravity of the different metals produced by a given amount of stretching , hammering , and twisting .
TABLE XVIII .
In the last table a sign signifies a decrease and a sign an increase of specific gravity .
The specific gravity of all the annealed metals here examined is decreased by permanent extension .
Hammering also decreased the specific gravity of all the metals subjected to this process except copper and platinum-silver ; with these metals the specific gravity was slightly increased .
Permanent torsion decreased the specific gravity of copper , zinc , and iron , and increased that of platinum-silver .
Of the three processes , torsion produced the greatest maximum change in the specific gravity , thus it will be seen from Experiment XXXVIII .
that the specific * This apparently is not always the case , as Sir W. THOIISON mentions iu his article on " " Elasticity ' Brit. Encyc p. 1 , that a certain specimeu of copper wire annealed in hot sand had its density increased more than 1 per by longitudinal extension .
AND STRAIN THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
gravity of copper was decreased by the torsion more than 2 per cent.\mdash ; a large amount considering the small alteration which extension and hammering can produce .
The results recorded in the last table enabled the previously mentioned correction for change of specific gravity to be made in calculating the specific resistance .
For if and be the specific gravities respectively before and after stretching , hammering , or twisting , and and be respectively the specific resistances uncorrected and corrected for change of specific grayity , Now the table furnishes the means of determining say ; and very nearly , since is very small .
Therefore .
The correction though smail was applied in all cases .
EFFECT OF COOLING SUDDENLY ON THE SPECIFIC RESISTANCE OF We have seen in Part I. that the effect of suddenly chilling steel heated to a high temperature produces a somewhat similar effect on the elasticity to that of excessive permanent extension , and it was concluded to be highly probable that whether the distance between the molecules be increased by mechanical strain or by the strain caused by sudden cooling , the elasticity in the direction of the line of separation of the molecules diminishes to a minimuln as the separation increases , and then begins to increase .
Now BARUS has proved that the specific resistance of steel continuously with its hardness , but BARUS'S experiments were made with steel heated at or above a visible red , and as the strain produced by extension , hammering , and torsion had been shown to produce up to a certain point decrease of resistance , it seemed a matter of some interest to ascertain whether heating the steel to a lower temperature than that of dull and then cooling slowly would not also have the effect of decreasing the specific resistance .
The following experiment was therefore tried:\mdash ; * Not so much as 1 per cent. in any oase whioh I have examined .
Phil. Mag. , November , 1879 .
i10 MR. H. TOMLTNSON INFLUENCE OF RESS XXXIX .
A piece of annealed piano-steel wire , feet in length and centim. in diameter , cooled suddenly by plunging ib into cold water after a even had been heated to various temperatures .
In this last experiment the wire was tempered when coiled , the coils being held together by wrappin fine iron wire round them , and passing a burner rapidly round the coils until it was supposed that the requisite temperature had been applied , when the wire was suddenly plunged into water at a temperature of This experiment , though rough as regards the mode of tempering , shows plainly that the specific resistance is decreased by the sudden cooling until the tempering is performed at some temperature under dull red , when the specific resistance begins to increase .
It will be shown also in Part .
that the thermo-electric properties of steel are affected in precisely the same manner , that is , that tempering beyond a dull red temperature produces opposite effects to tempering under a dull red temperature .
THE OF ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY TIME IN WIRES WHICH ARE IN A STATE OF STRAIN .
In all the experiments described in this Part it was observed that when the wires had been subjected to stresses of any kind , whether purely mechanical or otherwise , which sufficed to produce permanent strain , they invariably gained in electrical conductivity when allowed to rest .
The amount of decrease of resistance produced by rest varied however considera , bly with different , metals , being very conspicuous in German-silver and hardly perceptible with platinum-silver .
Table XIX .
shows the influence of rest in restoring the electrical conductivity of wires of German-silver , copper , iron , zinc and platinum-silver after hammering so as to increase the length about 15 per cent. ; the observations being commenced 20 minutes after the hammering had been completed .
The abscissae of the curves represent the decrease of resistance on a scale of 0085 per cent. to 1 millim. , and the ordinates on a scale of one hour to the millimetre .
resistance of the comparison-wire is here taken as 112 MR. H. ObILINSON ON O XVI .
, and XVII .
on the alteration of specific resistance produced by strain , shows most conclusively the superiority of platinum-silver to German-silver in making standard resistance coils .
We have seen also in Part I. that rest , materially in some cases and to a extent in all , increases the elasticity of metals ; now German-silver wire furnishes a conspicuous example of this ; and the curve in the table representing the increase of torsional rigidity produced by rests , shows plainly that the restitution of elasticity and electrical conductivity go hand in hand .
And this circumstance , when taken in conjunction with the fact that there is no change in the dimensions of the wire which would at all account for the increase of elasticity or conductivity , evidently teaches us tlxat when we can increase the elasticity without altering the mean molecular distance , we at the same time increase the electrical conductivity .
THE INFLUENCE OF PERMANENT STRAIN 0N THE CHANGE 0F LECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY ALTEliATIoN 0F TEMPERATURE .
Permanent extension , torsion .
The previous observations on the change of specific resistance produced by extension .
hammering , and torsion having given rise to the suspicion that these processes caused the wires to alter their susceptibility to change of resistance from change of temperature , and that this alteration of susceptibility bore a marked relation to the alteration of the thermo-electrical properties which are also caused by stress and strain , it was considered very advisable to further investigate the matter .
In the first few trials the large air chamber previously described was employed , but the changes wrought in the coefficient of increase of resistance from rise of temperature by the various strains were found to be so small that special precautions had to be taken to secure reliable results .
Accordingly the following apparatus was made use of .
In the figure is an air chamber made of two concentric brass tubes 12 inches in length .
The diameter of the wider tube is inches , and of the inner tube so that the two enclose between them a layer of air 1 inch thick .
The two tubes are comlected at the top and bottom by brass rings soldered to them , and two pieces of brass tubin soldered into the outer cylinder , one near the bottom and the other near the top , communicate by means of indiarubber tubing with a boiler , , and a vessel of cold water , , respectively , so that steam from the boiler can fill the entire space between the two concentric cylinders and be condensed in K. Three stout wires of copper , , 4 inches in length , pass through a cork which ] fits tightly the inner cylinder , and their upper ends are connected with the resistance coils and galvanometer , whilst to their lower ends are attached three clamps , A A and B. To the clamps are soldered silk-covered copper wires , which , passing through the cork , are connected with the poles of the battery .
The ends of the wire to be tested , X , and the comparison AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF FORCLS .
wire , , are secured to the clamps at A A and , the two wires having previously to cIamping been enveloped in cotton tubes of the same lengths as the wires .
As a further precaution , the clamps A were well wrapped up in silk , and with the wires were enclosed in a cardboard cylinder which fitted neatly into the innerbrass cylinder .
When it was necessary to heat the wires , jackets of several folds of were aced round the outside of the air chamber and also completely covered the top .
The connexions with the resistance coils of 100 ohms and the galvanometer were exactly as in previous experiments , so that from the disposition of the wires as shown in the figure , it will be seen that the influence of change of temperature on the connexions would be entirely neglectable .
Moreover , the boiler and air chamber , which were some distance from the box of resistance coils , were screened from the latter , which was coyered on the outside with tin foil , and only opened at the moments of actual testing for the balance between X and .
The wires X and were in cases 50 centims. long , and so disposed that they occupied the central portion of the chamber ; whilst a thermometer , , served to indicate the temperature .
The air chamber stood upright on a table , and the lower portion of it , , was packed with sawdust on which the base of the cardboard cylinder rest * It would have been better to use a cylinder of copper foil instead of the cardboard , as thereby tho temperature would have been rendered more uniform throughout the length of the wire .
1 ] 4 MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS The mode of experimenting adopted was as follows : X and having been placed in position and the air chamber covered with its baize jackets , the balance between the two wires was observed , and the thermometer having been pulled sufficiently far out of the cork to enable one to take the reading of the temperature , was afterwards replaced , The water in was then boiled , and in about half an hour the air in the chamber found to be at 10 C. , and was allowed to remain so for another half an hour , when X and were again ] anced .
The burner was next taken from under when a vacuum was formed in the upper part of the boiler by the steam condensing ; this vacuum was at once filled by the atmospheric pressure forcing water from , and when the space between the two brass cylinders had in a short time become filled with the water from , the cork was removed from the boiler , and a siphon action allowed to continue from which was kept supplied with cold water .
The jackets were then removed , and the cork having been replaced , the whole arrangement was suffered to rest for two hours , when the thermometer indicating the temperature of the air chamber to be within a degree or so of the original temperature , the balance between X and was once more determined .
As the processes of hammering and stretching by increasing the length of X might possibly have caused an error by making the lower portion of the wire to occupy a lower position in the chamber than the responding portion of the former wire was from time to time shortened to the same length as the latter .
Also , since with all the wires it was found impossible , even by using the greatest care in annealing , to find two pieces of the same wire which would agree exactly in their co-efficients of increase of resistance , these were compared before was subjected to strain of any sort .
The following experiments illustrate the nature of the results obtained:\mdash ; Experiment An annealed copper wire , 095 centim. in diameter , was stretched by hand permanently to different extents , and after each stretching tested for alteration of resistance from change of temperature .
have found it difficult even with such an arrangement as the above to get an exactly uniform temperature , except in the central portion of the chamber .
AND STRAIN ON @HH ACTION OF PHYSICAP SICALS .
Experiment Experiment An annealed iron wire , 063 centim. in diameter , permanently twisted .
The effect of permanent extension , of.hammering , and of torsion on the alteration of resistance produced by change of temperature in the case of copper , of iron , and of other is shown in Tables XX .
, XXI .
, atJd XXIT .
TABLE XX.\mdash ; Curves the effect of permanent extension on the temporary alteration of electrical resistance produced by change of temperature .
Table .
the curves have their abscissae representing the average superior increase of resistance for a rise of 1o C. of the stretched wire on a scale of 000075 AND RAIN ON TH ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
percentage of superior increase for each millimetre , and in Table XXI .
the curves drawn with their abscissae representing the average superior increase of resistance of the hammered wire for a rise of C. on a scale of 000025 percentage of superior increase for each millimetre .
In both sets of curves the ordinates represent the percentage of permanent increase of length on a scale of 25 percentage of increase of length for 1 millim. For zinc the abscissae represent 10 times as much alteration of resistance as they do for the other metals .
In Table XXII .
the abscissae of the curves represent the superior increase of resistance of the twisted wire on a scale of 0005 percentage of superior increase for each millimetre , and the ordinates the amount of permanent torsion in terms of a unit taken as the torsion of a complete revolution in a length of 1 centim. on a scale of 025 unit for 1 millim. In all the tables sign before an abscissa signifies that the strained wire increases most on rise of temperature , and the values of these abscissae were determined as follows:\mdash ; Let and represent the ratios of the wire to be tested , and the comparison-wire at any two temperatures and ; then the percentage AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the strained wire is most creased in by rise of temperature up to a certain limit of straining ; whilst beyond this limit further strain diminishes the first effect .
In the second class , which comprises copper , silver , platinum and German-silver , the strained wire is in by rise of temperature , but that , here again , after a certain limit of strain has been reached the first effect begins to be diminished .
Now it will be shown in Part IV .
that the metals of the first class , when subjected to a moderate amount of strain , whether the latter be produced by petmanent extension , hammering , or torsion , or by other than purely mechanical means , are thermo-electrically positive to pieces of the same metal unstrained , and that the first effect is ultimately reversed if the strain be carried to excess ; whilst the metals of the second class are , when moderately strained , therJno-electrically negative to unstrained pieces of the same metal , but when subjected to excessive become thermo-electrically positive .
We are therefore led to the conclusion that must be some close relationship between the thermo-electrical properties of metals , and their temporary alteration of resistance from change of temperature , and that renders piece of positive or negative to a piece of the metal unstrained according the strained piece is caused to be less or more increased in resistance by rise of Another point to be considered is that the metal which is in specific resistance by the strain is not always rendered less susceptible to change of resistance from alteration of temperature , for , as we have seen , zinc and platinum-silver are increased in specific resistance by moderate strain , and are yet at the same time rendered more susceptible to alteration of resistance from variations of temperature .
With the former of the above-mentioned , the alteration of susceptibility to change of resistance from change of temperature is comparatively much larger than is the case of any of the other metals ; whilst with platinum-silver the effect of strain in this respect is comparatively slight , and of the opposite kind to that which is produced on its two constituents .
Again , the third column in the experiments shows that the permanent effect produced by the change of temperature is not of the same nature with iron as with copper ; with the former metal the resistance is in some cases actually increased by the annealing when the strain is moderate , and in those cases where a pelmanent decrease of resistance is caused this increases with increased strain ; with the latter , on the contrary , permanent decrease of resistance after moderate straining is the result of the annealing , and this decrease after increasing to a maximum begins to become less with further strain .
The difference between iron and copper in the above-mentioned respect is readily intelligible when we remember that these metals differ as regards the kind of alteration of specific resistance caused by strain , as we have seen that with iron the finer gauges was found to be to diminish the temperature coefficient , but it seems that Mr. TAYLOr annealed the wires after the process of drawing .
specific resistance is decl.eased by moderate strain but increased by excessive strain ; whilst with copper , moderate strain effects increase , and excesslve stram , decrease of resistance .
THE EFFECT OF TEMPORARY STRESS ON THE ALTERATION 0F ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE PR0DUCED BY CHANGE OF TEMPERATUBE .
As permanent strain had been proved to alter the susceptibility to change of resistance from change of temperature in a manner which suggested an intimate relationship between this susceptibility and the thermo-electric properties of metals , some attempts were made to determine the effect of such temporary stress as could be caused by longitudinal tractio1l , on the alteration of resistance produced by change of temperature , partly with a view of establishing a still closer relationship between the above-mentioned qualities , and partly with the object of ascertaining whether the increase of elasticity which WERTHEIM'S experiments*seemed to have proved to be produced in iron and steel when the temperature is raised from C. to 10 C. , would be rendered manifest in experiments on the influence of stress on the ] resistance .
The difficulties here encountered seemed at first sight to be so great as to render it an almost impossible task to with any approach to accuracy the effect sought , unless this effect should be something very appreciable compared with the percentage alteration of resistance produced by stress at ordinary temperatures ; for , as we have already seen , the increase of resistance produced by raising the temperature to C. would be some hundreds of times greater than any change of resistance which can be produced in most metals by mechanical stress .
After several failures , however , these difficulties were overcome , and I succeeded in measuring with almost the same accuracy the comparatively minute alterations of resistance produced by temporary longitudinal traction at the temperature of 10 C. as at the ordinary temperature of the room .
To accomplish the desired object the large air chamber used in the first part of the enquiry was provided with two tubes , one near the bottom and the other near the top ; these tubes served the purpose of conveying steam into the bottom of the outer of the two cylindrical chambers of which the yessel consisted , and out again , near the top of vessel , into a tub of cold water , a hole at the top of the chamber which had been used previously for the purpose of filling the chamber with water having been corked up after the water had been emptied out .
The air chamber was wrapped round with several layers of baize , and these in turn surrounded with several layers of paper tied round with string .
The top of the air chamber was also well covered in the same manner with baize and paper , and the table on which the chamber rested was surrounded on all sides with like material with the exception of a small aperture * Ann. de Chimie et de serie , 1844 , p. 481 .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
through which the experimenter was enabled to adjust the weights on the scale-pan attached to the wire to be tested .
The scale-pan was suspend from the pulley , which was 6 inches from the bottom or the chamber , by a wire sufficiently stl.ong to bear the weights employed , and this wire passed through a hole in the table only just large enough to allow of free motion .
The doors and windows of the room were kept shut during the testing at the higher tempelature , and the usual precautions were taken to avoid any risk of permanent set or any liability to change of elasticity from testing too soon after permanent extension .
In about an hour after the first entrance of the steam into the air chamber the temperature of the air at the top and bottom was nearly , if not quite , at , but it was found necessary to allow the steam to enter for three or four hours before the wire to be imented on and the comparison-wire had assumed a sufficiently stable resistance-ratio , and even after this time there would be slow and very minute variations of this ratio first in one direction and then in the opposite .
Any errors , however , which would result from slow and minute variations were got rid of in the following manner : , \amp ; c. , be the apparent alterations produced by putting on and taking off the load several times in succession ; then the true alterations due to the load will be very nearly , \amp ; .
The following experiment will show how accurately the measurements could be made even at the temperature of 10 C. Experiment An annealed iron wire , 7 feet in length and 067 centim. in diameter , was loaded and unloaded several times with a weight of 3 kilogs .
; this weight was then removed and a rest of 48 hours allowed , when , on again testing with 3 kilogs .
, the recoyery was found to be quite perfect .
The wire was then heated to 10 C. , and having been maintained at this temperature for several hours was again tested .
Afterwards the air chaml ) was suffered to cool down to the original temperature of C. and after a rest of 24 hours the elasticity was redetermined with the same load as before .
MR. H. TOMLtNSON ON THE LUENCE OF STRESS It will be observed that even at 10 C. the probable error does not amount to 2 per cent. , and , moreover , besides the set of recorded in the experiment two others of a similar kind were made afterwards , giving mean values of and , and a total mean of as the alteration of resistance caused by a load of 3 kilogs .
at 10 C. , as against 5123 , the alteration produced on cooling again to C. Experiment The same wire was again heate to C. and tested with loads of 1 , 2 , and 3 kilogs .
, and afterwards , having cooled down to C. , the effects of the same loads were redetermined .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Experiment The same wire was treated with a load of 6 kilogs .
in exactly the same way as it had been treated when 3 kilogs .
were )ployed , and afterwards tested with loads from 1 to 6 kilogs .
Experiment VIII .
The same wire after having been heated to 10 C. , and kept at this temperature for several hours with a load of 6 kilogs .
on it , was allowed to cool , and in 24 hours the alteration of resistance produced by the cooling observed .
Similar processes were employed wibh loads of 5 .
and of 3 kilogs .
Experiment XLIX .
An annealed copper wire , 7 feet in length and centim. in diameter , treated in a manner similar to that in which the last iron wire had been treated , and tested at C. and C. with a load of 5 kilogs .
A piece of the same nickel wire , which had been previously broken by testing for alteration of resistance at the ordinary temperature of the room , was annealed again and adjusted in the air chamber in the manner previously described .
A load of 18 kilogs .
was then suffered to remain on the wire for several minutes , and after its removal the nickel was allowed to rest unloaded for 24 hours .
The wire was now tested with loads up to 12 kilogs .
at the temperature of C. , then after heating to 10 C. , and again , 24 hours afterwards , when cooled to C. The effect of change of temperature on the temporary decrease of resistance produced by loading is also shown in Table XXIIJ .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
TABLE XXIII.\mdash ; Curves showing the temporary alteration of electrical conductivity of nickel produced by longitudinal traction at temperatures of C. , C. , and Experiment XLV .
teaches us that though the alteration of resistance of the iron when loaded with 3 kilogs .
is greater at C. before heating to 10 C. than at 10 C. ; yet , afler coohng again to C. , the alteration is very slightly less than it had been at 10 C. , and , on the whole , there is a decrease of the temporary alteration of resistance produced by the loading .
From Experiment XLVI .
we learn that the second heating to 10 C. still further increases the difference of the effect of loading with 3 kilogs .
at the lower and the higher temperatures ; the alteration at the higher temperature being now more than per cent. than at the .
temperature ; but when the load employed is only 1 kilog .
, the alteration seems to be greater at the lower temperature than at the higher .
Experiment shows that when the wire was treated with 6 kilogs .
there was a permanent increase of elasticity produced by the loading , and it should at the same time be noted that 6 kilogs .
when first put on the wire , produced a increase of length\mdash ; an increase certainly not amounting to more than per cent. By comparing also columns two and six we can see that the slight annealing caused by raising to 10 O. , and cooling again has the , and therefore we have evidence here that )slight extension permanently increases the elasticity of iron ; whilst in I. we have seen that moderate permanent extension decreases , and permanent extension increases the of .
It evident , therefore , that we have three critical in iron wire , and that the elasticity is first increased to a maximum , then decreased to a minimum , and finally begins to increase again as the permanent extension is gradually increased from exceedingly small amounts to the breaking point of the wire .
Again , the alteration of istance produced by the loads is now greater at than at by amounts varying from about 5 to 6 per cent. periment XLVIII .
also shows that when loads from 6 to 3kilogs .
are left permanently on the wire when cooling from C. to the temperature of the room , the alteration of resistance decreases as we decrease the load , and bears out the previous observations that the elasticity is less at the higher at the lower temperatures .
In periment XLIX .
we have evidence that the slight annealing caused by raising the temperature of the copper to C. permanently decreases the elasticity , and that the alteration of resistance at C. is for the load employed about 2 per cent. greater than at C. It is , however , when we come to Experiment L. that the most noticeable chan are seen to be produced , and when we consider the results recorded in this experiment and in Table XXII .
we are led to the conclusion that the temporary alteration of susceptibility to change of resistance from changes of stress effected by raising to C. is , with nickel , as remarkable as we have seen this susceptibility itself to be .
The curves are drawn on the same scale as the curves for nickel at , and it will be observed that not only is the maximum diminution of resistance lessened by raising to C. to an amount which is less than one-half of the maximum diminution at the lower tempe1ature , but that also the load at which this maximum diminution occurs is much less ; and it may well be that at a sufficiently high temperature the decrease of resistance observed to be produced by moderate loads at the lower temperatures would be changed to an increase .
In fact , I am inclined very strongly to believe that there exists with ] metals a critical temperature below temporary stress will produce temporary decrease of resistance , and that above this temperature there an opposite effect caused by the stress .
The value of YoUNG'S modulus\ldquo ; was determined for this piece of by the of static extension , in a manner to be presently deSCI'ibed , and was equal to at the temperature of C. and to at the temperature of C. It will be observed that the maximum decrease ofresistance as Table XXITI .
, is greater than the maximum decrease observed with the other specimen and still further shows how the amount of this decrease depends upon the As regards the question whether the thermo-electric properties of the metals , as *These two specimens were received at different times from Messrs. JOHNSON , MATTHEY , \amp ; , and the latter shows still more remarkably than the former the Iarge which can be obtained from even in a well.annealed condition .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCHIS .
affected by temporary stress , be related to the susceptibilities of alteration of resistance from change of tempelature in the same way as the corresponding qualities seem to be where permanent strains are concerned , it may be said to remain at present open , and only to be decided by further experiments on the effects of stress on the thermo-electric qualities of iron ; but as far as copper and nickel are concerned , the above question seems to be answered in the affirmative .
THE EFFECT OF SLIGHT MECHANICAL STRAIN AND OF THE CAUSED BY RAISING IRON TO C. AND AFTERWARDS oOLING , ON THE TORSIONAL RIGIDITY OF THE METAL .
The above experiments had shown such an astonishing influence to be produced on the longitudinal elasticity of annealed iron by merely raising the metal to .
and then cooling , that it seemed advisable to test whether or not a similar effect would be produced on the torsional rigidity of iron .
by a like cause , and if so , whether we can imitate the strain resulting from heating and afterwards cooling by mechanical means .
A piece of annealed iron wire was vibrated at a temperature C. , and the time of a single vibration , as determined by counting the vibrations for five minutes , was found to be second .
The wire was then heated in an air chamber to C. , and after having been maintained at this temperature for one hour was suffered to cool , and the time of vibration found to be second 12 hours after cooling .
Experiment A second piece of the same wire , when suspended ready for vibrating , was heated slightly by passing the flame of a BUNSEN burner rather quickly up and down it several times , the vibrator being at the same time supported , so as to take off stress from the wire .
The time of vibration before heating was second , and in five minutes , 85 minutes , and 245 minutes after cooling was , and second respectively .
The wire was then heated to redness and cooled , when the time of vibration after five minutes was second , and after 22 hours became second .
Experiment LIII .
A third piece of the same wire was vibrated after different slight amounts of permanent extension had been produced ; the length before stretching was centims. , and the time of vibration second .
After slightly stretching , so as to increase the length to 82.2 centims. and 84.3 centims. , the time of vibration became respectively second and second .
* This point will be fully considered in Part xperiment L A piece of annealed pianoforte steel was vibrated after different slight amounts of permanent extension .
These speak for themselves , and prove that the torsional rigidity is affected in a precisely similar manner to the longitudinal elasticity by raising to and then cooling , and moreover that the strain produced by slight mechanical traction acts in a similar manner on both iron and steel to the strain produced by tempering .
We see also how very quickly the increase of elasticity is changed into a decrease when the extent of strain is widened either by heat or by mechanical means .
Evidently then there are for iron three critical points as regards its torsional rigidity as well as regards its longitudinal elasticity\mdash ; very slight strain increasing , moderate strain decreasing , and excessive strain again increasing both these physical properties .
Further , it would be interesting to determine whether cold would not produce the opposite effect on the elasticity to heat , and it seems highly probable that cooling below the temperature of the room will permanently decrease the elasticity of iron ; this point , however , I hope to be in a position shortly to decide .
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF EXPERIMENTS ON ELASTICITY .
We have seen that the temporary alteration of resistance produced by any load is permanently decreased in the case of annealed iron wire by merely raising the temperature of metal to C. Now WERTHEIM'S experiments seem at first sight to prove that the elasticity of iron and steel is greater at 10 C. than at the ordinary temperature of the room ; but if M. WERTHEIM had examined the elasticity after the wire tested at the higher temperature had again cooled down to the lower one , he would have found that this apparent temporary increase of elasticity was really permanent one , and if the wire had been tested several times , first at the higher and then at the lower temperature , he would have also found , provided sufficient rest after * All these experiments were repeated several times with different specimens of iron , but invariably with the same result as regards the nature of the change .
Ann. de Chimie et de Phys. , serie , 1844 .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
cooling had been allowed , that the elasticity of both iron and steel is porarily diminished by raising the temperature to 10 C. From WERTHEIM'S we gather that in the case of iron and steel there is the following increase of elasticity between to C. and 10 C. The increase of elasticity of the steel wire seemed so remarkable that it was determined to retry WERTHEIM'S experiments by direct observations of extension , using the same scale and vernier as ve been already described in Part I. , and placing the wire and the comparison-wire in the same air chamber as had been used in measuling the alteration of resistance produced by loading at different temperatures .
The length of tVlre between the clamp , which rested on a wooden support on the top of the chamber , and the vernier was 4 feet 4 inches , and of this length 2 inches or rather more would be , roughly speaking , at the temperature of the room when the rest of the wire was heated by steam to 10 C. We must therefore mnltiply any observed effect on the elasticity caused by raising the temperature of the wire to C. by a number which is about 4 per cent. of the apparent alteratio The air chamber rested ( fig. 18 ) on a piece of wood , A , 8 inches long , 6 inches broad , and inch thick , and this in turn on two stout bricks , , which were supported by a wooden table , D. The wire to be examined , X , and the comparison-wire , , were , as usual , secured at one end of each to the same , which rested on a piece of hard wood , , placed at the top of the chamber .
The wires , X and , passed through two small holes made in , and also through a hole in the table , and to their lower ends were attached , in the one case , a scale-pan , and in the other a cross-bar of wood , , carrying constant equal weights .
Exactly the same precautions were taken as have been already fully described in Part I. , and , as in experime1Jts on the alteration of resistance produced by loading , the air chamber was well covered with baize and paper .
Under these circumstances it was possible to maintain a very constant temperature of C. , and even had the temperature varied slightly it will be seen that no appreciable error would have been introduced , as the variation old have altered the lengths of X and to the same extent .
* Ann. de Chimie et de Pbys .
, serie , 1844 , p. 431 .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUEcNCE STRESS Fig. 18 , An annealed pianoforte-steel wire , 085 centim. in diameter , was loaded for somehours with a weight of 10 kilogs .
; this was then removed and a rest of 24 hours allowed , when a weight of 4 kilogs .
was left permanently on the wire and the elasticity determined at the ordinary temperature of the room , and at 10 C. , by putting on and taking off a load of 6 kilogs .
, the recovery being quite perfect for the load at both the higher and the lower temperatures .
the higher temperature after the first loading , whichwas not taken into consideration in estimating the elasticity .
AND STRAIN ON ] ] ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The same iron wire as had been used for Experiment .
was loaded for some time with 8 kilogs .
; 4 kilogs .
were then removed and the wire allowed to rest for 24 hours , when the effect on the length of the wire produced by putting on and taking off 2 kilogs .
was found to to an alteration of 940 half-millim .
at 10 C. After the action of the steam had been stopped for two hours and the temperature was about the alteration produced by the same load amounted to 985 half-millim .
, and after 20 hours rest at the temperature of C. was found to be 945 half-millim .
The wire was now tested with 4 kilogs .
, when the alteration of length produced by this new load was half-millim .
at C. , and after heating for some hours to 10 C. , half-millim .
The source of heat having been removed and the wire allowed to cool slowly for 20 hours , the alteration caused by the same load was half-millim .
at C. Experiment An annealed nickel wire , 09213 centim. in diameter , was loaded for several hours with a weight of 18 kilogs .
; .
10 kilogs .
were then permanentl left on the wire for 24 hours , and the alteration of length effected by a load of 8 kilogs .
at a temperature of C. amounted to half-millim .
The wire was heated to 10 C. , and the alteration was now found to amount to half-millim .
After cooling down for the next five hours to a temperature of about C. the alteration became halfmillim .
, and after three days at a temperature of C. proved to be halfmillim .
Experiment VIII .
The same copper wire as had been used in Experiment XLIX .
was loaded for some hours with a weight of 11 kilogs .
; 7 kilogs .
were then allowed to remain on permanently and the wire suffered to rest for two days .
It was then raised to the temperature of 10 C. with the weight of 11 kilogs .
on , and cooled again to the temperature of the room .
These operations were repeated each four times during a space of four days , and on the last of these the alteration of length produced by a load of 4 kilogs .
was found to be 1374 half-millim .
at C. ; on cooling to C. the alteration caused by the same load proved to be half-millim .
, and this , or nearly the same alteration , had been found to be produced by the load at the temperature of the loom , which temperature varied from C. to C. on each of the previous The following table exhibits the difference of the alteration of electrical resistance and of length at the temperature of the room and at 10 C. on Experiments .-LVIII .
, on Table It appears from the last experiments that there is really a permanent increase of elasticity produced in annealed iron and steel by merely raising the temperature to 10 C. ; and what is still more remarkable , there was in the case of one specimen of iron wire , which was so ductile as to lengthen by 24 per cent. before breaking such a large loss of ductility that its maximum permanent elongation barely per cent. after it had been heated to 10 C. allowed to cool .
As the last discovery was made when experimenting on the effect of permanent extension on the susceptibility of the resistance of iron to change of temperature , it was thought at first that the passage of the current used in determining the electrical resistance might have some influence on the ductility , but on heating three other pieces of the same wire to C. , and afterwards allowing them to cool permitting any current to flow through them , almost exactly the same change was observed ; and yet in all these cases the rate of cooling was slow ; so much so , indeed , that with the last specimen employed , in which special precautions had been taken to surround the small air chamber in which the wire was heated with several coatings of baize , the chamber was sensibly warm to the touch 12 hours after the cooling had commenced .
How far other kinds of annealed wrought-iron might show a change of ductility from like cause I know not , but it seems evident that changes comparatively enormous can be produced in the elasticity and ductility of this metal by small alterations of temperature .
It has also been shown by Experiment XXXIX .
that the electrical conductivity of annealed steel is increased by heating slightly and then cooling quickly , and it will be proved in Parts III .
and IV .
that there is a correspondingly large effect on the magnetic lnductive capacity and on the thermo-electric properties of steel produced by the same process .
It would appeal , therefore , that researches of this kind might lend valuable * This wire I received through the kindness of Mr. J. T. BOTTOMLEY , and was especially prepared for experiments on magnetic induction carried on in the physical laboratory of Sir W. THOMSON .
AN1 ) STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
1.33 aid in investigations on the liability of wrought-iron axles to fracture produced by sudden changes of the temperature of the air .
Again , it will be observed from Experiment LVI .
that shortly after the iron has been heated and then cooled there is less elasticity than when a considerable rest has been allowed ; and in fact we have in this case exactly the same kind of restitution of elasticity in iron as we have seen takes place after the wire has expel.iencedmed ] anical extension .
With nickel the increase of elasticity produced by rest after cooling is still more remarkable .
Equally remarkable also is the temporary change of elasticity produced in nickel ; and a comparison of the loss of elasticity produced by raising the temperature to C. with the change of susceptibility to alteration of resistance from change of stress as shown in Table XXIII .
affords a still further proof that stress and strain act in the contrary direction as far as electrical conductivity is concerned .
It will also be noticed in Table XXV .
that the alteration of susceptibility to change of electrical resistance from change of stress is greater in iron in proportion to the alteration of elasticity when the temperature is raised to C. , and that the converse is the case with copper , so that there is a greater or less alteration of specific resistance for the loaded wire than for the unloaded , caused by rise of temperature to C. , according as the metal is iron or copper ; and we have seen that a similar state of things occurs where the strain is that left after the removal of the stress .
THE ALTERATION OF ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY ATION .
History of the subject and description of This subject has , in the case of iron , received the attention of several observers , who have in some instances differed not only as regards the amount but also as ards the nature of the change produced by magnetization on the electrical resistance .
Sir W. THOMSON , in was I believe the first to show that magnetization affected the electrical conductivity of iron and steel , longitudinal magnetization causing in these metals increase , and transverse magnetization decrease of resistance , and this with steel was found to be the case whether the metal was hard or soft .
Shortly afterwards experimenting on nickel , HOMSON found with this metal also an alteration of resistance similar in kind to that of iron , but greater in amount for the same magnetizing force .
With brass , on the contrary , he failed to detect any change whatever .
Subsequently BEETZ , CHWOLSON , S and myself pursued similar investigations .
* Phil. Trans. , " " Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals Part Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. viii .
, 1857 .
POGG .
Ann. , vol. cxxviii .
, p. 202 ( 1866 ) .
S CARL'S Rep. , vol. xiii .
, p. 232 ( 1877 ) .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. , Jnne 17 , 1875 , vol. xxiii .
, p. MR. H. TOMLINSON ON TH13 INFLUENC ] ] OF STRESS BEETZ and CHWOLSON both confirmed the results of HOMSON as far as longitudinal magnetization was concerned ; but with the former of the two first observers an experiment where transverse magnetization was employed , ended in giving purely negative results .
The values obtained in my own experiments differed considerably from those of THOMSON as regards amount and in the case of hard steel also in nature .
Moreover , it appeared that the circular magnetization which ensues when a current is passing through an iron wire caused an increase of resistance , and as we might perhaps expect circular magnetization to cause a similar effect , as regards nature , on the conductivity to transverse magnetization , these results were not in accordance with those of THOMSON .
Unfortunately I had not at the time read Sir W. THOMSON'S paper , and investigations made in later yeals convinced me that the observations recorded in my " " Preliminary Notice\ldquo ; were not reliable , partly because alteration of resistance from change of temperature had not been sufficiently against , and partly because of " " PELTIER effect which I have since found would , with the large battery-power employed in the circuit of the " " WHEATSTONE'S bridge\ldquo ; arrangement , vitiate the results .
To my astonishment , AUERBACH , three years afterwards , published an essayt " " On the Passage of the Galvanic Current through Iron in which my own ervations bo'th as regards the magnitude and nature of the changes produced in iron and hard and soft steel by longitudinal magnetization were apparently fully confirmed .
Moreover , it appeared that he also agreed with me that circular magnetization caused increase of resistance in iron ; and ingeniously reasoning that , this being the case , feeble longitudinal magnetization should decrease the resistance of , brought forward a series of experiments which seemed fully to bear out his views .
Under these circumstances it seemed to be advisable to retry some of my old experiments on iron and steel rods , and further to extend the enquiry to of iron and steel .
As several of the instruments used in this part of the investigation have also been employed in several experiments yet to be described in the other parts of this paper , it seems advisable to give here some description of them , as well as certain data which will be required for converting the measurements taken into absolute units .
The tangent nometer .
This was of the usual pattern , made by ELLIOTT Bros. , where there are two stout copper rings for measuring rrents where it is desirable that the resistance of the galvanometer should be small , and three pairs of coils of finer wire for other purposes .
In these investigations the former only were employed , and therefore we may consider the resistance of the galvanometer itself to be neglectable .
* This , however , is not , I believe , the case .
Phil. Mag. , July , 1879 , vol. vui .
, p. 1 .
Translated from the original essay ( Lipzig , 1878 ) , municated by the author .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The short needle was as usual provided with an aluminium index , and by means of this , readings on a graduated circle traversed by the ends the index could be depended upon to within of 1o The needle was suspended by a platinum wire of an inch in diameter and 12 inches in length , the upper end of the wire being secured to a torsion-head provided with a vernier , which moved over a graduated circle ; by means of the vernier a torsion amounting to six minutes could be measured .
The fine platinum wire hung in the axis of a brass tube which was provided near its lower extremity with a small glass window , so that the illuminated image of a vertical wire focussed by a lens could be received on a small mirror and reflected back on a scale placed at a distance of 1000 of its own divisions.from the mirror .
The mirror was attached to a piece of stout brass wire which was connected at its lower extremity with a needle , and at its upper extremity was clamped to the lower end of the platinum wire .
The effect of the torsion on the deflection was determined by a series of careful observations made by turning the torsion-head through different angles , first in one direction and then in the opposite , and noting the corresponding deflection of the needle .
Thus , in one experiment , the torsion-head having been turned through 100 degrees from left to right , was produced . .
deflection of , and when the head was turned from right to left , the deflection was on the opposite side of the zero point ; the mean of the two deflections of the needle is , and therefore the force of 1o of torsion of the suspension wire would ; where is the horizontal force of the earth 's magnetic action on the needle .
In order to be able to determine in absolute umts the value the deflections of the needle , a new DANIELL'S cell of large size was charged with a saturated solution of sulphate of copper and a semi-saturated solution of sulphate of zinc .
This cell was allowed to rest for two hours after having been charged , and was then short-circuited for half an hour .
After this time the cell was connected up with the thick copper wires of the galvanometer , and the deflection of the needle produced , observed by means of the mirror and scale , when external resistances of ohm , 10 ohms and 20 ohms were successively introduced .
The deflections were reversed in each case by reversing the battery-current and the mean values of the two deflections in the differe1lt directions were for ohm , 324 divisions of the scale ; for 10 ohms , 110 divisions ; and for 20 ohms , 30 divisions ; these deflections corresponding to , and respectively .
By comparing the deflection with ohm and 10 ohms in circuit , the internal resistance of the battery , together with the resistance of the comlecting wires , was found to be 1.055 ohm , and by comparing the deflections with 10 ohms and 20 ohms in circuit , this same resistance was calculated to be ohm ; therefore , ohm was assumed to be the true resistance .
Again , taking the electromotive force of the DANIELL thus charged to be volt , or electromagnetic units , and the resistance of 1 ohm to be of these umits , the formula for converting the readings of the galvanometer into electromagnetic units was determined to be , where equals the deflection of the needle in degrees , and is the value of the current strength in absolute measure .
The magnetizing coils .
During a considerable part of these investigations two magnetizing coils were employed , of which descriptions are now given .
The larger of the two coils , which will be designated as the coil , was made of about 1000 feet of cotton-covered copper wire , of an inch in diameter ; the whole piece was divided into sevel ) equal portions , and these , after having been well soaked in melted paraffin wax , were placed side by side and bound together by tape wound spirally along the whole length of the compound strand thus formed .
This strand , after a further soaking in paraffin , was wound on a stout glass tube having an internal diameter of 1 inch and a length of inches .
glass tube was provided at its two extremities with discs of wood inch thick and 6 inches in diameter , and surrounding the whole of the coil was a zinc cylinder concentric with the glass tube , which being closed at its two ends by discs of the same metal served when filled with water to keep the coil cool ( fig. 19 ) .
The ends of each of the seven portions into which the whole wire was divided were connected with separate terminal screws so that the seven coils could be used either in " " series\ldquo ; or in " " multiple arc When arranged in " " series in which form they were employed in this parbicular branch of the enquiry , the total resistance of the ] at C. was ohms .
The compound strand was distributed along a length of 30 centims. in layers of five deep , so that the total number of turns amoumted to 2100 .
The inner diameter of the coil was 3 centims. and the outer 7 centims. ; therefore the magnetizing force at the centre and the two extremities would be respectively and absolute units , where denotes the current strength , and average force throughout the whole length would be The of the two coils , the coil , was constructed as follows : thin tube of polished brass , with a slit running throughout its entire length , inch internal diameter and inches , was covered with vulcanised caoutchouc to a depth of of an inch , and on this was wound .
of cotton-covered copper wire , of an .
inch in diameter , followed by .
of wire , of an inch in diameter .
Inside the ffist tube was placed a second of similar kind , 1 inch in internal diameter , and connected with rings of ebonite with the first at the two ends .
The second tube was concentric with the first , and of the same length , so that between the inner tube and the outer there was interposed a layer of air nearly of an inch in thickness .
This arrangement was employed to prevent the heat from the magnetizing coil reachin any wire AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
or rod placed inside .
The wire forming the coil had a resistance of ohm at the temperature of C. , and was distributed in 814 turns in a length of centims. The inner diameter of the coil was 3 centims. and the outer diameter centinls .
, so that the magnetizing force at the centre wonld be , and that of the two extrernities absolute units ; consequently the force throughout the coil would be .
As with coil , the whole of the wire'was well soaked in paraffin wax before winding , and the insulation between one layer and another was , by determining the resistance before and after winding , ascertained to be quite perfect in both A and B. THE EFFECT OF TEMPORARY STRESS ON THE OF RESISTANCE PRODUCED BY In order to test the effect of temporary and permanent extension on the change of electrical resistance produced in iron wire by magnetism , the following arrangement was adopted : wire , which had a total length of from 4 to 5 feet , was firmly secured at one end ( fig. 19 , C ) to a strong upright , and was then slipped through two Fig 19 .
glass tubes of small diameter about 13 inches in length ; the glass tubes were placed inside two copper vessels , , of the same length as themselves .
These vessels each consisted of two concentric cylinders connected by soldering at the two extremities by copper rings and provided with small pipes , so that cold water could be kept running through the space between the .
The outer of the cylinders was 1 inch nearly in external diametel .
, and the inner inch in diameter ; one of the copper vessels was placed inside the magnetizing , whilst the other was supported on the table .
* It should be mentioned here that in all these experiments the metizing coils were ] ' in direction to the magnetic meridian .
XXXIII .
The wire passed over a large wooden pulley , , and to the other end of it was attached a scale-pan for holding weights .
The light clamps , have been well secured to the wire , were connected up in the usual manner , as shown the figure , with the galyanometer , battery and resistance-coils , the connecting wires in this case being for a distance of 2 feet of rather fine silk-coyered copper , order to avoid the strain which would probably have ensued from the comparatively heavy caoutchouc-covered wires ordinarily employed .
The whole arrangement was then carefully covered over with baize , and water allowed to trickle from a small cistern through for about an hour , the space having been previously filled with water .
After a sufficient time had elapsed to render the parts of the wire of the same temperature , the effects on the resistance of magnetism alone or magnetism combined with strain were determined .
The tangent galyanometer was placed in the circuit of the coil for the purpose of measuring the current passing through the coil .
Experiment Another piece of the same wire was loaded and unloaded several times with a weight of 12 kilogs .
, and was afterwards allowed to rest for days unloaded .
.The changes of resistance were then determined by noting the position of the light on the scale , the B.C. being produced by a large DANIELL'S cell , the circuit of which , as well as that of the galvanometer , was kept closed as soon as the balance had been the figure the manner in which the compound strand of the coil is arranged in " " series\ldquo ; is not shown .
The current in the circuit of the " " WHEATSTONE'S bridge\ldquo ; will be denoted by B.C. and that in the mngnetizing circuit by M.C. AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
established .
The effect of magnetization on the resistance was tested loads of , 6 , 10 , and 12 kilogs .
were on the wire .
The M.C. was produced by five GROVE cells .
Both these experiments show that the increase of resistance which was produced by the longitudinal magnetization is lessened by temporary stress up to a certain limit of the latter , and several other experiments of a similar kind proved that after the diminution of alteration of resistance caused by magnetization had reached a maximum , further temporary stress began to reverse first effect , sometimes only just before the " " breaking-load\ldquo ; of the had been reached .
In no case , however , was diminution of resistance caused by longitudinal magnetization for the highest stress which could be put upon the wire without breaking it , this , too , when strengths of current of very different degrees were tried .
Experiment An annealed nickel wire , 105 centim. in diameter , was arranged in the same manner as the iron wire in the last experiment ; but the clamps and ( fig. 19 ) were placed nearer together , and just inside the coil , so that the whole of the nickel experimented on would be under the influence of the magnetizing force .
In this case the coolels , were dispensed with , and , instead , the wire to be tested was provided with a solenoid of fine silk-covered copper wire , wound in two layers on a glass tube of the same length as that of the nickel wire under examination , and of a diameter such that the latter could be easily slipped inside it .
This solenoid served , when required , to give the relative amounts of magnetism imparted to the steel by the different magnetizing forces .
The alterations of resistance produced by the magnetism were first determined , then the galvanometer having been disconnected from the ' bridge\ldquo ; andjoined up with the solenoid , the induced currents caused by the magnetization were measured by the *This was rather unexpected ; since JOULE has shown Phil. that whilst iron free \amp ; om stress is increased in length by longitudinal magnetization , yet when loaded beyond a certain limit its is diminished by the same cause .
" " throw\ldquo ; of the needle , both with and without the B.C. flowing through the nickel .
preliminary set of observations had giyeu the means of determining the amount of current which would be induced when the nickel was not the coil , and , therefore , by subtraction the induced currents due to the nickel only could be determined .
The glass tube and the fine ] -covered copper wire on it would have served to shield the nickel from any change of temperature likely to be caused by the current ; but as a further precaution , the solenoid was well wrapped up in paper so that it wouldjust fit inside the coil A. The comparison-wire was also surrounded with glass and caoutchouc tubing , and , as with the iron , the whole arrangement was well covered over with baize .
The following values ( Table XXVI .
) of the alterations of resistance are the means of five or six trials with each of the various magnetizing forces employed .
It is evident from the last experiment that the increase of resistance which can be produced by magnetizing nickel wire longitudinall.y is diminished by temporary longitudinal stress not calried beyond a certain provided the magnetizing force does not exceed a certain critical value depending upon the amount of stress applied .
Thus we see that when the value of is somewhere between 159 and 279 , the load of 2 kilogs .
begins to increase the alteration of resistance caused by the magnetization .
Now , Sir W. THOMSON has proved\mdash ; and in the case of this particular wire I have been to verif.v the factt\mdash ; that with nickel the magnetism induced by any magnetizing force is increased or diminished by stress according as the magnetizing force does or does not exceed a certain critical value .
With iron , on the contrary , the induced * ' Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals\ldquo ; \mdash ; Part , Phil. Trams .
, Part I. , 1879 .
I shall have occasion to refer to this experiment in Part III .
of my paper .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHySICAL FORCES .
magnetism is increased by stress , provided the magnetizing force does not reach a certain critical value , which however is very much less , other circumstances being the same , than is the case with nickel .
It is possible , therefore , that if much smaller magnetizing forces had been employed in Experiment LIX .
, the increase of resistance caused by magnetism would be to be heightened by the loads employed in that experiment .
THE EFFECTS OF PERNANENT LONGITUDINAL EXTENSION OF TORSION AND OF TEMPERING 0N THE ALTERATION OF ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE PR0DUCED BY MAGNETIZING .
The last experiment shows that moderate per manent logitudina ] strain largely increases in the case of nickel the susceptibility alteration of resistance from tudinal magnetization .
A similar effect is produced on iron , but as the whole point will be more fully discussed in Part III .
, it will suffice here to state that several experiments made according to the above plan , and also others where the comparisonwire and the wire to be tested were placed together in the lnagnetizing coil , proved , undoubtedly , that moderate permanent strain increases the susceptibility , but that this increase , after reaching a maximum , begins to decline , so that in some cases after the wire had been broken by the stress applied , the susceptibility appeared to be less than it was before the wire had been subjected to any strain .
The abovementioned maximum point depends upon the amount of magnetizing force in a manner to be hereafter described .
The effect of permanent torsion up to a certain point was to the susceptibility to alteration of resistance from longitudinal magnetization , and the amount of diminution was independent of the direction either of the M.C. or the B.C. The following experiment shows that in hard steel longitudinal magnetization increases the electrical resistance .
Experiment LXII .
A piece of a steel -needle , 762 centims. in length and 23 centim. in diameter , was hardened by heating it to a bright red and then plunging it into cold water .
The piece was connected up with another of similar dimensions and similarly prepared , and both having been well covered with caoutchouc and silk , were made to form two branches of a ' WHEATSTONE'S bridge The coil was used to impart magnetism , and with a large LECLANCHE ' for the B.C. , and four GROVE'S cells for the M.C. , an of resistance represented by 30 divisions of the iridio-platinum wire was obtained .
The brass clamps used to connect the pieces of steel with each other , and with the other branches of the ' bridge were so massive that even in this case their resistance is neglectable ; and since 30 divisions of the iridio-platinum wire would show an alteration of resistance of 010 per cent. , we may assume that this last number represents the extent to which the conductivity of the steel i42 MR. H. TNSON ON THE INFLUENC OF STRESS was dimin by the longitudinal magnetization .
Moreover , the steel under examination was well within the ] , the Comparisonpiece being , of course , outside , and also at right angles to the coil ; and it was calcul ted that the increase per unit of resistance would unit force be , since , the strength of the magnetizing current here , amounted to absolute unit .
It will be observed , by comparing this last result with the corresponding one Experiment LXVIII .
, that the alteration of resistance produced by a given magnetizin force very much less with the hardened steel than that caused by the same magneforce in a steel rod of the same diameter , but in the same condition as it was from the makers .
Several other trials were made with the same piece of steel , in smaller and smaller amounts of .
were employed , but in no case could any alteration of the nature of a of resistance be observed .
A similar experiment had been tried with pianoforte steel wire , hardened in the same way , and with various amounts of M.C. , but the results were of the same nature , though much less in amount , as with the knitting-needle .
It may be added that both the knitting-needle and the wire were made so hard that they were quite brittle , and with both there was a permanent as well as a temporary increase of resistance produced by the magnetization .
AN ATTEMPT To DETERMINE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE ALTERATION 0F ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE PRODUCED BY ANY MAGNETIZING FORCE , THE FORCE ITSELF , AND THE MAGNETISM INDUCED BY THE FORCE .
On consulting the fourth , fifth , and sixth columns of Table XXVI .
, it will be observed that the increase of resistance ensuin magnetization depends not only upon the magnetism induced , but also upon the magnetizing force itself ; and , in fact , we may say that if denotes the increase of resistance , whilst and represent the magnetizing forces and the magnetism induced respectively , , where are two constants .
In the case of the nickel wire , and were measured in terms of the divisions of the scale of the tangent galvanometer , and of the scale of the THOMSON'S reflecting galvanometer respectively ; whilst and were calculated from the observations made with and .
The agreement between the observed and calculated values of is good , and certainly quite equal to that between the different observations made with the same values of .
Columns 4 and 5 show clearly that the alteration of resistance depends in this case more on the value of the magnetizing force than on the magnetism induced , and from the fact that is nearly constant throughout , whereas -rapidly increases for the higher values of , we are led to infer that the AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
alteration of resistance would g0 on increasing as the magnetizing force increased , even when there might be no appreciable advance in the value of the magnetism induced .
A glance at the curves in Table XXVII .
will serve to confirm the above view .
These curves have their abscissae representing both the induced magnetism and the alterations of resistance produced by the various magnetizing forces , which latter are measured by the ordinates of the curves .
The induced magnetism is represented on a scale of 1 millim. to one division of the scale of the THOMSON'S reflecting galvanometer , and the alteration of resistance on a scale of 1 millim. to one division of the platino-iridium wire .
The ordinates are on a scale of 1 millim. to two divisions of the scale of tangent galvanometer , and each of these latter divisions represents a current of 00023 absolute unit .
Each division of the iridio-platinum wire represents an alteration of resistance per unit ; if therefore we take the average of the first six values of ' namely , 360 , as representing the average alteration of resistance effected by a magnetizing current producing a deflection of one division on the scale of the tangent galvanometer , we find that the increase of resistance per unit produced in the nickel wire by unit magnetizing force TABLE XXVII.\mdash ; Curves showing the increase of resistance and the amount of induced magnetism produced in nickel wire by different magnetizing forces .
Experiment LXIII .
An annealed iron wire , 094 centim. in diameter , was arranged with the same precautions and in the same manner as the nickel wire in the last experiment ; but as it was found difficult to make observations in the ordinary way in consequence of the VILLARI'S " " shock-currents\ldquo ; being very pronounced , the B.C. , for which one GROVE'S cell was employed , was kept flowing until the wire and the comparison-wire had assumed a sufficiently -ralio which was very nearly equal to unity .
The alteration of resistance produced by various magnetizing forces was measured by the deflection of the image of the illuminated wire on the scale , and the mode of taking the readings and the nature of the corrections to be applied for the direct action of the magnetizing coil on the galyanometer are described in Experiments LXIX .
and LXXI .
The following table contains the results of this experiment:\mdash ; Table XXVIII .
shows that with iron as with nickel the increase of resistance can be represented by the formula and , here again therefore , it seems as if the alteration of resistance would go on increasing as the magnetizing force increased even when there would be no perceptible increase of induced magnetism .
The cases of iron and nickel , however , differ considerably in one respect , namely , that whereas with the latter metal the magnetizing force played the more important part in altering the * The discrepancies between the observed and calculated values of for the first three magnetizing forces is , I believe , almost if not entirely due to the fact that , unfortunately , before any exact measurements had been made with the lower values of , the full magnetizing force had been employed .
This would not perhaps havo affccted the result , as far as the agreement between observation and calculahon is concerned , had the induced magnetism been measured at the same time the alteration of resistance , butthis was not the case , the third and fourth values of , which may perhaps be assumed to represent approximately the average alteration of resistance a given moderate magnetizing force , we find that with this wire the increase per unit of resistance produced by an absolute electromagnetic unit of magnetizin force would be It is desirable to draw attention also to the fact that with both iron and nickel there is no change of resistance of the nature of a produced by magnetization , but that starting with a current from one GROYE'S cell through a total external resistance of about 15 ohmst and with a magnetizing force not greater than 26 times the earth 's horizontal magnetic force at the place , we find a continuous increase of resistance as the magnetizing force is increased .
THE EFFECT OF ALTERING THE STRENGTH OF THE B.C. ON THE CHANGE OF RESISTANCE PR0DUCED BY ANY MAGNETIZING FORCE .
The results recorded in the last two experiments are so far at variance with AUERBACH'S views already alluded to , that it seemed advisable to still further test these views by altering the strength of the B.C. whilst that of the M.C. is m.aintained constant .
nent LXIV .
A piece of the same annealed nickel wire as that used in Experiment LXI .
was tested with one GROVE'S cell and a total external resistance of 15 ohms for the M.C. , and with from one to three GROVE'S cells with no external resistance save that offered by the " " bridge\ldquo ; and its connexions for the B.C. The numbers given in the second column are the means of several observations , and agree very fairly with each other , the difference between them bein within the errors of observation , and what difference there is would show that we have a slightly greater increase of resistance for large values of the B.C. than for ] ones .
* The first two values of are not included , for the reason previously mentioned .
That is , 10 ohms in addition to the resistance of the coil and its connecting wires .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
Experiment A piece of the same iron as had been used in Experiment LXII .
was tested with one GROVE'S cell and no external resistance save that of the magnetizin coil for the M.C. , and three GROVE'S cells with adjustable external resistance for the B.C. In this experiment , which was conducted in the same manner as Experiment LXII .
, there is evidently a greater ] teration produced by magnetism when the B.C. has a high value than when it has a low one , and the differences between the different values in the second column are certainly larger than could be attributed to errors of observation .
Now in Experiment LXVIII .
it will be shown that with unannealed steel , and in Experiment I. it has been shown with annealed nickel , that there is little or no difference in the amount of alteration of resistance effected by magnetism when the B.C. is made to vary in amount ; and the reason is apparent , for with the nickel and the steel there was no appreciable difference between the induced currents caused by the magnetization of these metals when the B.C. was flowing and when it was not , whereas , if we turn to the second , third , and seventh columns of able XXVIII .
, we see that there is a very appreciable difference in the case of the annealed iron wire , between the induced currents with and without the B.C. All these experiments are in direct contradiction to those of AUERBACH , but yet it was thought fit to try others with annealed pianoforte-steel wire .
Experiment A piece of annealed pianoforte-steel wire , 10 centims. long and centim. in diameter , was tested with various battery-power from one to four cells for the B.C. , and battery-power varying from one GROVE'S cell with a resistance of 10 ohms in the external circuit besides the resistance of the coil , to seven GROVE'S cells with no external resistance save that of A for the M.C. In no case was a of resistance produced by magnetization .
With one GROVE'S cell for the B.C. , and seven GROVE'S cells for the M.C. , an increase of resistance of 0585 per cent. was observed : lower values of the M.C. gave smaller and smaller results as the M.C. diminished .
The alteration of resistance produced by unit magnetizin force was estimated in uoeual manner to be per unit .
*That is , no difference of such an amount as to make it seem worth while at the time to record it .
eriment L A strand of four pieces of the same length and of the same steel as that used in the ] experiment was tested with one GROVE'S cell in the B.C. , and seven in the , and the alteration of resistance , which , however , could not be accurately measured , was certainly not greater than that of the single wire when the same battery-power was employed for both the M.C. and the B.C. The change of resistance of the compound strand under the above-mentioned conditions was measured at 040 per cent. with a probable error of 25 per cent. THE EFFECT 0F LONGITUDINAL 0N THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE OF A BAR 0F STEEL .
As my earliest investigations recorded in the previously-mentioned " " Preliminary Notice\ldquo ; had seemed to show that the alteration of the electrical resistance of iron and steel which can be produced by magnetization is very much greater , for the same amount of magnetizing force , when the metals are in the form of comparatively thick rods than in that of wires , the following experiment was made .
VIII .
A steel knitting-needle , taken in the ordinary condition , 23 centims. in length 233 centim. in diameter , was provided with two copper terminals , 14 centirns .
in length and centim. in holes having been bored centim. in depth at one end of each terminal so as to admit the ends of the needle .
A similar and -furnished needle served as the comparison-piece , and the two were connected with each other and with the other parts of the " " bridge\ldquo ; in the same manner as the wires in the last experiments had been .
The clamps used , however , were more massive and the whole of the steel to be magnetized was well within the coil whilst the comparison-piece was outside the coil and at right angles to it .
The amount of magnetism induced was measured as before , but the resistance introduced into circuit of the neter employed for this purpose had to be made vely considerably greater than was the case with the iron wire , in order that the " " throw\ldquo ; of the needle might be reduced to the proper extent .
The B.C. was produced by four GROVE'S cells , and the M.C. by seven GROVE'S cells , each with adjustable external resistance .
The following are the results obtained:\mdash ; AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
From this experlment we learn that the magnetism induced in the steel is , for the magnetizing forces employed , very nearly proportional to these latter , and that the alteration of resistance is nearly proportional to the induced magnetism , and therefore to the magnetizing force .
Still more closely can the alteration of resistance be calculated from the form ) , where the constants and , given as and 0588 , are from the alterations of resistance caused by values of the .
equal to 347 and l52 divisions of the scale of the tangent galvanometer .
Alteration of the strength of the B.C. seems to have little or no influence on the change of resistance produced by a given amount of magnetizing force , and therefore we may assume that the product of the mean values of and will fairly represent the alteration which would be wrought by a current in the magnetizing coil which would suffice to deflect the needle of the tangent galvanometer through one division of the scale .
This product , and since a division of the iridio-platinum wire corresponds to an increase per unit of the resistance of the steel and , since also one division of the scale of the tangent galvanometer represents a current of00023 , whilst the average magnetizing force due to unjt current would in the present instance be ' we see that the maximum increase of resistance obtained by the magnetization was , and that the increase of resistance unit for unit magnetizing force would be * Of course correction is here , and in all similar , scs , made for the resistance of the terminitls , however , with these rods was very THE OF LoNGITUDTNAL M ON THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE OF A BAR OF NICKEL .
Experiment LXIX .
A bar of nickel , centims. long and centim. in diameter , was soldered to two stout copper terminals , whilst a similar bar , similarly provided , served as a comparison The bars were arranged in the same manner as the steel bars in the last experiplece .
meant , but the magnetizing coil was used instead of A. Before placing the nickel in it was covered with several layers of stout caoutchouc , and the comparison piece having been furnished in like manner , the usual precautions of well covering both bars were taken .
The B.C. was furnished by two GROVE'S cells and the M.C. by eight GROVE'S cells with adjustable external resistance .
The circuit of the B.C. was kept closed , and the alteration caused by magnetization in the resistance of the bar was measured by the deflection of the image of the illuminated wire on the scale .
As the resistances to be compared are in this case very small , it is advisable to show how far any measurements of alteration of resistance can be depended upon , and for this purpose the first set of readings with the smallest M.C. are given:\mdash ; *In this , and in every other instance in which such a mode of measuring alteration of resistance was adopted , the direct action of the magnetizing coil and of the included metal core on the galvanometer when the latter was not in circuit was always determined by a separate set of experiments , as though such action was sma it could never be entirely avoided .
The distance ( several yards ) of the coil from the galvanometer was however such that no perceptible difference in the sensibility of the latter was introduced when the M.O. was closed .
Similar remarks apply to the tangent galvanometer , and the readings given are in the caso of both instruments always corrected for the above mentioned direct action .
For the mode of taking the readings see Experiment LXXI .
on Bismuth .
Each number is calculated from three consecutive readings in the manner described iu Experiment LXXI .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL The deflection due to direct action of the electromagnetic solenoid and included core when the galvanometer was disconnected from the " " bridge\ldquo ; Therefore the deflection due to alteration of resistance Immediately after taking the above readings the effect of altering ohm the side of the " " bridge\ldquo ; adjacent to the side containing the bar was found to be a deflection of 190 divisions on the scale , and since the ratio of the resistance of the bar and its copper terminals to that of the comparison piece was , it was assumed that the increase of resistance amounted to per unit .
deflection of the needle of the tangent galvanometer was in this case , and a similar set of observations was made when the M.C. produced deflections of , and , with the results recorded below .
It would seem that the increase of resistance produced by the magnetization varies in this case more nearly as than as ; if , however , we take the mean value of the numbers for we shaU probably obtain a sufficiently close approximation to what can only be regarded as a rough measurement of the effect of magnetization on the resistance .
This mean value is .
The resistance of the nickel only was to that of the nickel and the connexions in the ratio of to , and since the value of must be multiplied by 316 in order to obtain the value of the current in .
units , and since moreover a unit current would produce an ayerage magnetizing force in this case of , we see that the increase per unit of magnetizing force would on the whole be , or .
The bar was cast , and used in the same state as sent by the makers when annealed the value given above would be considerably greater , as it was afterwards ascertained that annealing very largely increased the capacity for induction from moderate magnetizing forces .
* For this bar and for the bars of cobalt and bismuth used in the next experiments I am indebted to Messrs. JOHNSON , , and Co. All the bars here mentioned were very neal .
lie chemically THE EFFECT 0F LoyGITUDINAL MAGNETIZATION 0N THE ELECTRICAL OF A BAR OF COBALT .
E.xperiment A bar of cobalt , centims. long and centim. in ameter , was provided with stout copper terminals , and balanced against a similar bar .
The precautions taken and the mode of experimenting were exactly the same as with the nickel bar .
In this case the values of agree quite as well as , nd if we take the mean of the former , namely , we obtain an increase of resistance per unit attending magnetization by a unit force ; a number , it will be noticed , only about one-seventh of that obtained in the case of the nickel .
The cobalt was , like the nickel , unannealed , and annealing would have caused the effect of a moderate etizing force to be greater , though not so much greater as would be the case with nickel .
In both the nickel and cobalt bars there was a ) increase of resistance produced by magnetization , the maximum alteration in nickel to about 125 per cent. , and in cobalt to 025 per cent. ; so that the maximum permanent alteration of resistance which is caused by magnetization is much greater with nickel than cobalt .
With both bars the M.C. was found to produce very nearly the same alteration of resistance , whether passed in one direction or the other through the coil .
THE EFFECT OF blAGNETIZATION ON THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE OF A BAR OF BISMUTH .
Experiment LXXI .
As it seemed desirable to certain whether diamagnetic substances would have their resistances altered in the same direction as paramagnetic ones , some experiments were made with bars of bismuth , but as the magnetization which can be imparted by AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
an electromagnetic solenoid to bismuth is very much smaller than is the case with iron , nickel , or cobalt , it is proper that rather fuller details should be given in describing the results obtained so that the trustworthiness of these results may be duly estimated .
A of bismuth , 25 centims. iu length and centim. in diameter , was provided with copper terminals of the same diameter , and connected up with a similar bar to the " " bridge as shown in fig. 20 .
In this figure the relative dimensions of the bismuth bars and their copper termmals , as well as the mode of establishing the " " bridge are sufliciently shown .
Tu the binding screw , , a silk-coyered copper wire , , was soldered to connect the bars with the galvanometer , whilst the two binding screws , , were provided with silk-covered copper wires leading to the poles of one GROVE'S cell and to two resistance coils of 100 ohms each in the usual manner .
The coil A was employed , and the bars were arranged in the same manner and with the same precautions as the iron wire used in Experiment LIX .
, except that now it was necessary to with the glass tubes in order that the bismuth bars could be slipped into the copper vessels through which the water flowed .
The bars were , however , well yarnished and covered with tissue-paper so as to ensure thorough insulation .
The B.C. was kept closed and the alteration of resistance observed in the same manner as with the nickel and cobalt bars .
The M.C. was produced by 13 GROVE'S cells , and the deflection of the needle of the tangent galvanometer was The readings given below are determined in each case as usual from three consecutive readings ; thus , being three consecutive .
readings the recorded number .
The .
was now taken off and the direct action of the coil on the galvanometer was found to produce adeflection of .
Therefore there emed to be an increase of resistance caused by magnetization represented by scale divisions .
The B.C. was again put on , and by taking out and putting in ohm several times it was ascertained that this caused a movement of image of the wire through divisions .
Moreover , when the was flowing , putting in or taking out 1 ohm caused the same effect , and therefore the .
did not affect the sensibility of the galvanometer .
In this case represented an alteration of resistance amounting to 001 per unit , and therefore the increase of resistance from magnetization would be per unit per unit and0031 per cent. The B.C. was now reversed and the following observations taken : \mdash ; The B.C. was again taken off and the direct action of the coil on the galvanometer appeared to be now Here , therefore , there would be an increase of resistance equal to that represented by scale divisions , and the amount of increase would be 0022 per cent. Again , the resistances of 100 ohms on two sides of the bridge were replaced by 10 ohms , so that now the arrangement having become more sensitive , a set of observations similar to the above gave an increase of resistance equal to divisions of the scale , corresponding to an increase of 0029 per cent. From the three sets of observations it was concluded that the electrical resistance of bismuth is increased by longitudinal magnefization by 0027 per cent. for the amount of magnetizing force here employed .
The increase per unit of resistance for a unit magnetizing force would be * For some reason the direct action of the magnetizing coil on the galvanometer was never quite the both directions of the M.C. AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
OF ZINC LXXII .
A piece of commercial zinc foil , 14 inches in length and millim. in thickness , was wrapped lengthwise round a soft iron bar of circular section , inch in diameter and 15 inches in length , which had previously been coated with two layers of brown paper .
The width of the foil was such that when wound round the bar the edges just overlapped .
The foil was secured in position by fine yet strong twine , and having been covered with two folds of brown paper the whole was placed central]y in the coil A. At the two ends the foil was cut so as to allow of these ends being clamped in the usual manner in brass blocks , and a strip of foil of similar ( dimensions served as the comparison-piece .
The same mode of experimenting and the same precautions were taken as with the bismuth bar .
Seven GBOVE'S cells were used for the , and these produced a deflection of of the needle of the tangent galvanometer .
Several trials which accorded very fairly with each other showed a mean increase of resistance represented by divisions the scale .
The M.C. was reversed , and .
several trials showed an increase of resistance , the mean value of which was represented by divisions .
From the data obtained it was calculated that the increase of resistance amounted to 0148 per cent. The iron core having been .
removed no appreciable change in the resistance of the zinc foil could be detected on passing the M.C. THE EFFECT 0F LONGITUDINAL fIZATION 0N THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE or COPPER WIRE .
Experiment LXXIII .
A piece of silk-covered copper wire , 12 feet in length and of an inch in diameter , was doubled backwards and forwards so as to form a bundle 1 foot in length .
The whole was then well coated with shellac varnish , and when dry inserted into one of the copper coolers ( fig. 19 ) , which was placed in the coil A. A similar bundle served as the comparison-piece , and the two bundles were connected up in the usual manner with the bridge .
One GROVE'S cell was used for the B.C. , and the deflection of the tangent galvanometer produced by the M.C. was .
The B.C. was kept on for 10 minutes , and whilst still on the following readings were taken:\mdash ; The B.C. was now taken off , and the direct action of the coil on the galvanometer was found to be .
There would therefore , on the whole , appear to be an increase of resistance of .
The B.C. was again put on , and a similar set of observations to the above produced when the the M.C. was reversed , an apparent increase of divisions ; whilst the direct action of the coil on the galvallometer caused a deflection of in the Qame direction , so that now , on the whole , there would appear to be a decrease of resistance represented by 20 division of the scale .
The meam result of the two sets of observations would give a decrease of resistance represented by 07 division of the scale .
Now , in this case , the galvanometer had been made so sensitive by proper of the adjusting magnet that an alteration of 1 ohm on one of the two sides of ) bridge , containing each 100 ohms , caused a deflection of 300 divisions of the scale ; accordingly 1 division of the scale would represent an alteration of resistance amounting to per unit , and 07 an alteration of less them one in four millions .
It is needless to say that this experiment shows that there is no reliable change of resistance to be detected even with the comparatively large magnetizing force employed in this case\mdash ; a force which would be more than 480 times that of the earth 's magnetic horizontal force at the place .
The copper in this case was the ordinary copper wire usually employed for electrical purposes , but other experiments were made with chemically pure copper , and these all yielded results quite as negative as those just recorded .
There is no doubt that the electrical resistance of copper is altered by magnetization ; but in order to detect such alteration we should , in all probability , require the aid of a very powerful electromagnet* and a galvanometer in a very sensitive condition .
Such change of resistance must be exceedingly small even with the most powerful magnetizing force that we can at the present time bring to bear\mdash ; much smaller than would seem to *One might , perhaps , by adopting the same plan as that used with the zinc foil , succeed in obtaining evidence of alteration of resistance in the case of copper foil .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
follow from STEWART and SCHUSTER'S experiments , some of the details of which will now be discussed .
DISCUSSION OF STEWART'S AND SCHUSTER'S EXPERIMENTS ON THE ALTERATION OF ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE OF COPPER BY STEWART and SCHUSTER , in a preliminary notice , bring forward the results of certain experiments which in their opinion seemed to prove the electrical resistance of copper wire is altered by magnetization ; but a glance at their mode of operating serves to show that the effects observed by bhem cannot be relied upon .
In fig. 21 ( copied from Phil. Mag. , 1874 ) A B is a caoutchouc-covered copper wire several yards in length wound round the armatures of an electromagnet , and is another resistauce which the copper wire is approximately balanced .
The alteration of resistance observed from the " " of ) needle of the galvanometer , caused by closing the B.C. by means of the contact-breaker , first when the electrowas actuated by six GROVE'S cells and then without current in the M.C. , or vice-versd .
The galvanometer was in such a position with reference to the electromagnet that the latter produced very little direct effect on the former , and since they obtained an increase of potential at compared with the potential at when the M.C. was passing , they inferred that the magnetization .
imparted by the electromagnet to the wire decreased the resistance of the copper .
Fig. 21 .
These experimenters , however , seem to have entirely oyerlooked the fact that the powerful netization imparted by the magnet to the armatures would alter the capability of the latter to receive fresh magnetism .
Now , when the B.C. is closed at , the current in the coil of wire wrapped round the armatures would induce magnetism in the latter , and this would in turn send an induced current through the covered wire in the opposite direction to that of the if , then , the capability of * Phil. Mag. , May , 1874 .
receiving fresh magnetism is lessened in the armatures by previous powerful magnetization this induced current would be lessened , and thus , if their mode of experimentin was adopted , the resistance of the wire would seem to be decreased .
The following experiment was tried with a view of testing the effect of previous magnetization on the capability of receiving fresh magnetism in the case of the armature of an electromagnet .
Experiment LXXIV .
A bar of soft iron , 12 inches long inch broad and inch thick , was placed across the cores of a small electromagnet , and separated from them by a piece of tissue paper .
The cores of the electron)agnet were 1 inch in diameter and 5 inches in length , and were wound round with the cotton-covered copper wire of an inch in diameter , and having a resistance of nearly 1 .
A battery of six GROVE'S cells was employed the electromagnet , and in order to test the change of susceptibility to magnetization , some 200 turns of rather fine silk-covered copper wire were made round one end of the bar of soft iron and ibuted over a length of 4 inches .
The coil thus formed was connected with the galvanometer , and was further insulated from the iron core by two layers of paper .
The coil was then placed inside the coil , which itself could be placed in the circuit of one large DANIELL'S cell by means of a mercury-cup .
The current induced by the magnetization imparted by the coil to the soft iron bar was measured by the " " throw\ldquo ; of the galvanometer-needle produced when the circuit of the DANIELL'S cell was closed , first without exciting the electromagnet and then with this magnet in action .
The electromagnet was at such a distance from the galvanometer that no error of importance caused by the direct action of the former would be introduced .
The following experiments were then made :\mdash ; AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
The current through the electromagnet was then reversed .
It will be noticed that for both directions of the M.C. the induced current is less with the electromagnet excited than when not .
Several phenomena connected with the experiments in the paper above alluded to can be explained by referring the apparent alteration of resistance to the permanent , sub-permanent , or temporary alteration of the magnetic susceptibility of the soft iron 60 R. .
TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS armatures employed ; and , on the whole , when we consider that , as stated by them , the electromagnet had no apparent effect to make a piece of the wlre set either axially or equatorially , we must regard their results with great I myself seven years ago tried the effect of an electromagnet on a copper wire coiled several times round a flat piece of hard wood , and placed between the poles of a powerful electromagnet actuated by 12 GROVE'S cells , in no case could I detect the slightest real alteration of resistance .
The galvanometer then employed was only able to detect an alteration of 1 in 50,000 of the resistance , and I look forward with some interest to renewed experiments in the same direction with the much more sensitive instrument which I have at present .
Let A , fig. 22 , be a thin slice of iron ( in the plane of the paper ) , through which all electric current is passing in the direction of the arrows .
The molecules at the upper part , A , will tend to take up positions such that their axes are perpendicular to the plane of the paper and with their north ends above it .
The magnetization imparted to the molecules will diminish from A to the axis , where it will be zero , and below this axis the molecules will be impelled to place their south poles above the plane of the paper .
If now be an independent current passing below A , it will tend to reverse the magnetism of the ] ecules at and strengthen that of the molecules at A ; but since the lower molecules are nearer to than the upper ones , the total effect would be a partial diminution of the annular magnetism imparted by the current flowing through A D. If , on the contrary , the current below the wire flows from to , the annular magnetism would on the whole be increased .
Now , some years ago , when making attempts to discover whether the resistance of an iron wire could be altered by passing a current above or below the wire , I was led to believe that such was the case .
Among several other experiments , a knittingneedle provided with copper terminals was placed upon a strip of copper 16 inches long , 3 inches broad , and of an inch thick ; the strip was well varnished , and the needle was laid upon it in such a position that the axis of the needle was * It seemed to be the more desirable to test these results , as AUERBACH twice alludes to them in his paper ( Phil. Mag. , July , 1879 , pp. 15-17 ) , and should they not be correct , as I cannot help feeling is probably the case , others might be misled , owing to the well-deserved reputation of these experimenters .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
coincident in direction with a line drawn from end to end of the strip and bisecting the two ends .
On passing a current through the strip the resistance of the wire was altered in such a manner as would make it appear that circular magnetization decreased the resistance .
I cannot , however , place reliance on these experiments , which at the time seemed conclusive , as I have in my recent attempts not been able to verify their results when sufficient precaution was taken to avoid change of resistance from change of temperature .
The following are two experiments made with the above-me1ltioned object : Experiment An annealed iron wire , 4 feet in length and 085 centim. in was firmly bound by tape for a distance of 2 feet with a caoutchouc-covered copper wire of an inch in thickness .
The two parts of the wire were arranged as usual to form two sides of a " " WHEATSTONE'S bridge and whilst the B.C. was varied in different trials to very different extents and the current through the copper wire was increased from almost to of the tangent galyanometer , no trace whatever could in any case be detected of alteration of the resistance of the wire by passing a current through the copper wire , though the arrangement was sufficiently delicate at times to an alteration of one in one million .
At one time , indeed , it was suspected that there an alteration , but this was afterwards traced to a slight direct action of the M.C. on the galvanometer .
Experiment LXX VI .
A strip of annealed iron foil , 8 inches in length 2 inches broad and of an inch was placed upon a copper strip 12 inches long 3 inches broad and of an inch thick , the two being separated from each other by two folds of a silk handkerchief .
Another strip of iron of similar dimensions served as a comparison piece , and the two iron strips were arranged as usual in the " " bridge Though the currents through the strips of both iron and copper were altered to the same extent as with the iron , there was still no trace of alteration of resistance caused by the current in the copper strip .
It is hardly necessary to say that such arrangements as these are not favourable for bringing out the effect sought , inasmuch as the distances of the copper wire and copper strip conveying the current were both greater than the thickness of the iron itself but , on the other hand , if we make iron thicker we diminish the sensitiveness of the arrangement , and we certainly cannot well diminish the distance of the copper from the iron without laying ourselves open to error from changes of resistance caused by heating .
Several attempts were now made to ascertain whether variation of the B.C. itself * With the wire twice as great and with the strip nearly eqnal .
62 MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE , OF STRESS would any variation in the resistance of iron wire , of which the next experiment will furnish a sample .
Experiment LXXVII .
An annealed iron wire , 14 inches long and 85 millim. in diameter , was balanced against a platinum wire of an inch in diameter , and of nearly equal resistance .
The B.C. was varied by interposing amounts of resistance in the external circuit of one GROVE'S cell , and this could be done very quickly by a suitable arrangement of mercury cups .
Resistance coils of 10 ohms each were used in the two branches of the bridge , where 100 ohms resistances wele generally ] As it was found impossible to allow the current to flow even two or three seconds without unduly heating the wire , and as VILLARI'S " " shock-currents\ldquo ; would cause the resistance of the iron to appear greater than it should be when the B.C. was closed , and less than it should be when the B.C. was opened , the following plan was adopted : was , at intervals of 30 seconds , closed and immediately afterwards opened ; and in this way it was found possible to obtain the value of the resistance-ratio of the iron and platinum so nearly , that on moving the sliding-piece to points on the iridio-platinum wire 20 millims. above or below the supposed balancing-point , a deflection of several divisions could be obtained in one direction or the other .
As the contrary " " shock- currents\ldquo ; produced by closing and immediately opening the B.C. would not quite neutralise each other 's impulsive effects on the galvanometer-needle , it is obvious that the effects on the galvanometer , due simply to the fact of the sliding-piece being equal distances above or below the true balancing-point , would not produce equal deflections , but that , by taking the mean of these deflections , the true point might by easy calculation be determined .
As a sample of the mode of experimenting we will take the following case : \mdash ; The true balancing-point seemed to be 55 millims. to the right of the zero of the iridio-platinum wire , and 3 ohms were at this time in the circuit of the B.C. ; on moving the -piece to 75 a deflection , on closing and immediately afterwards opening the B.C. , of five divisions to the left was obtained ( a left deflection would here indicate that the sliding-piece should be moved to the left in order to get the true balance ) .
The sliding-piece was now moved to 35 , and a deflection of six divisions to the right was obtained on closin and opening the B.C. From this we learn that the true balancin-point would be nearly .
The resistance of 3 ohms was then removed , and similar observations gave 58 as the balancing-point .
Immediately afterwards , the 3 ohms tance having been again introduced , the point appeared to be 56 .
The true balancing-point when ; 3 ohms were in was therefore assumed to be , and when * It may be perhaps as well to state here that when ] ] resistances being compared , 10 ohms instead of 100 ohms were generally employed , though this fact has not been always mentioned .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
the 3 ohms were removed to be 58 .
In this way the following results were arrived at as the means of several trials:\mdash ; Now when we bear in mind that one division of the iridio-platinum wire only represents an alteration of resistance of 0033 per cent. , it appears evident that alteration of the strength of the B.C. can have but very small effect on the resistance , and even if there is any alteration it is of such a nature as to show that circular magnetization produces , not increase of resistance .
DISCUSSION OF AUERBACH'S EXPEBIMLNTS The results recorded in the last few experiments are so completely at variance with my own former observations , and with those of AUERBACH that it is very desirable to attempt to account for the discrepancies .
I cannot help thinking that AUERBACH experimenting , ss it would seem , in almost precisely the same manner as I did in 1875 , may have been misled in the same way as I now believe myself to have been .
We both employed copper terminals to our iron wires whose resistances were in some cases even greater than that of the wire itself , and therefore necessarily not very thick , and moreover balanced this compound wire of copper and iron against a wire of Germansilver .
Now when a current is passing through a wire compoumded of bwo metals placed end to end , a PELTIER effect\ldquo ; is produced such that an electromotive force is developed which sends a current in the opposite direction to the original ; so that , if we attempt to find resistance of the compound wire in the usual manner by closing the battery circuit and shortly afterwards that of the galvanoJneter , we shall obtain an apparent value for the resistance which will depend upon the battery-power employed , upon the length of time that the battery circuit has been closed , upon the medium surrounding the wire , upon the thermo-electric power of the two metals forming the compound wire whose resistance we wish to determine .
Nor is the ' PELTIER effect\ldquo ; necessarily confined to the two junctions , for since no wire can be made perfectly homogeneous Phil. Mag. , July , 1879 .
Ibid. , June , 1875 .
That is whether this medium tends to preserve the inequa ] of temperature at two junctions or no throughoutl 6 theremustbeunequalheatingwherevertwodissimilarpartsMRHTOMLINSONONTHEINFLUENCE , OFSTRESS of the wire join , and therefore consequently there must be developed at each suoh junction an opposing electromotive force .
Indeed , may not the large resistance of such alloys as German-silver and platinum-silver be in a great measure due to a similar unequal heating at the junctions of the molecules of the several metals forming the alloy : with this difference , however , that here there would be an equalization of temperature the rapidity of which would be more and more approached in the case of a compound circuit made up of several pieces , say of iron and copper , as the distances between the consecutive junctions of these pieces became less and less Further , besides the error likely to arise from the " " PELTIER effect we must expect to encounter another , as much as the heat generated in a wire by the passage of a current by no means necessarily produces the same alteration of potential at the twojunctions .
This may be from two causes : either different rises of temperature may be produced because the terminal at one end carries off more heat than that at the other , or because the metals which appear to be identical at the two junctions are not so .
That the " " PELTIER effect\ldquo ; does come largely into play sometimes , we can convince ourselves by passing a culrent from a single ] of DANIELL for five or ten seconds through a thermopile , and then , after disconnecting the cell from the pile , putting the latter in circuit of a galvanometer ; in such case a very considerable deflection can be obtained with a delicate instrument , and , indeed , we can even make the warmth of the hand , pressed against the face of one thermopile , generate such a " " PELTIER effect\ldquo ; in a second pile connected with the first , that on disconnecting the two from each other , and then connecting the second with a reflecting galvanometer , a deflection may be obtained which can be rendered visible at a considerable distance .
The following experiments will show that such errors as those above-mentioned are by no means merely theoretical .
Experiment VIII .
A silk-covered German-silver wire , of an inch in diameter , was soldered at its two extremities to two copper terminals , of an inch in diameter and 6 inches in length , the forming a fairly accurate resistance coil of half an ohm .
The coil was pub for 20 seconds in the circuit of one GROVE'S cell , and then , after the had been disconnected , and when a further period of five seconds had elapsed , connected by a mercury cup with a galvanometer ; a deflection of 200 divisions was obtained , whereas , previously , there had been no perceptible deflection .
After a rest of five minutes there was only a deflection of some 20 divisions .
The battery was now reversed , and after a connexion with the coil seconds , a of 170 divisions was obtained in the opposite direction .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF FORCES .
A piece of annealed iron wire with copper termiuals , both of similar dimensions to those of the wire and terminals in the last experiment , was treated in the same manner as the German-silver , and deflections of 50 and 25 divisions , both on the same side , were obtained .
The wire and its terminals in case well wrapped up in paper , and , as in the previous experiment , there was no sensible deflection before the GROVE'S cell was used .
These experiments , which are only two out of several which were made with different pairs of metals , show with the Germansilver the electromotive force generated by the " " PELTIER effect\ldquo ; was so far greater than that due to any other cause that the deflections were nearly the same on both sides ; whereas with the iron the current produced by the unequal heating of the two junctions from other causes than the " " PELTIER effect\ldquo ; predominated , and this was found to be the case with specimens of iron and copper .
In my experiments of 1875 I balanced iron wires or iron rods against wires of other materials , and using rather powerful elect , romotors ( from one to six GROVE'S cells ) proved , as I thought , that the electrical resistance of iron increases with the intensity of the current employed in " " bridge ; ' ' but in these later investigations , in which , having a much more delicate galvanometer , I could obtain a measure of the resistance of the substance within 1 in 50,000 with a battery-power one-tenth of the smallest then used , I have been unable to detect with certainty any such change .
As for the discrepancies which exist between my present and former observations on both soft iron and hard steel , I can only attribute them to eITors caused by the magnetizing coil being too close to the iron or steel to allow of sufficient protection from errors caused by heat radiated or conducted from the former , and which might increase the resistance of the metal as a whole , or cause apparent increase or decrease by unequal change of potential at the junctions of the two copper terminals with the iron or steel .
At any rate , using both steel and iron of the same qualities as used then , but adopting more perfect thermal insulation and a more accurate mode of experimenting , I have been unable to detect any such considerable increase of resistance in the case of soft iron or soft steel , or any decrease of resistance of hard steel , as I did then .
Now ATJERBACH , with some of his specimens of iron and steel wires , obtained apparent alterations of resistance of 1 , 2 and even 3 per cent.\mdash ; alterations of decrease or increase which would have , in the case of specimens of a similar nature used by myself , sent the reflected image of the illuminated wire flying off the scale , whereas , instead of this , I found nothing but variations of resistance which never , with wires of a similar diameter , reached even to 1 per cent. , and this , too , with magnetizing forces which must have equalled those employed by AUERBACH .
AUERBACH , again , to concur with BEETZ and others that the mere pull connected with magnetizing would have caused an apparent decrease of resistance , .
151 .
in THOMSON'S experiment on the effect of transverse magnetization on the electrical resistance of iron but when one considers the small effect of even a far larger stress than could have been produced by magnetization on the electrical resistance of iron , as shown in Table I. , these objections must , I think , vanish ; and further , with nickel whose resistance THOMSON has proved to be altered similarly to iron , the effect .
of mechanical stress is of an opposite nature to that produce by magnetization .
REMARKS ON THE NATURE 0F THE ALTERATION 0F WH1CH 1s PRODUCED BY MAGNETIZATION .
It will be observed in Table XXXIII .
, in which are given the values of the increase of resistance produced by unit magnetizing force , that of all the metals examined annealed nickel is the most affected , that next in order come soft iron , soft steel , cobalt , and bismuth .
Evidently the condition of the metal may largely affect the susceptibiliiy to alteration of resistance , and from what we have previously learned the thickness may do so also , but in a direction opposite to that which was at first expected , namely , that thick wires would be less affected than thin ones when the same B.C. were employed .
Had the nature of the change of resistance been the same for mechanical longitudinal stress as for longitudinal magnetization in the case of all metals , there is nothing in the actual of alteration that might llot lead us to suppose that the change of resistance from the latter cause is due to mere rotation of the molecules , as molecules , without regard to the electric currents , which , according to AMPERE'S hypothesis , are constantly circulating round these molecules .
But when we find that with nickel * Phi ] .
Trans. , 1856 , Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. viii .
, 1857 .
It is remarkable that the value of the " " rotational coefficient\ldquo ; of nickel should also exceed that of the other magnetic metals .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACT[ON OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
longitudinal mechanical stress , which must cause rotation of the molecules to a certain extent , but without magnetic polarity , actually , unless carried to a very great excess , produces decrease of resistance , we are probably right in conjecturing that the change of resistance resulting from magnetization is in a great measure due to the fact that the current used in the " " bridge\ldquo ; is encountered by a set of molecular rents circulating all mole or less in the same direction , and in planes more or less at right angles to the direction of the former current as the induced magnetism is greater or less .
RELATION BETWEEN THE ' ROTATIONAL COEFFICIENT " " OF METALS AND THE ALTERATION OF RESISTANCE PRODUCED BY MECHANICAL E. H. HALL has discovered that when a strip of metal along which a current is passing is placed between the poles of an electromagnet in sucl ] a position that the lines of magnetic force are perpendicular to the plane of the strip , an electromotive force is developed in a direction at right angles both to the plane of the strip and the lines of force , and that the current is deflected .
This deflection varies in amount and also in direction with different substances , and Professor HALL has recently read before the British Association a this subject , in which he gives a table showing the extent and direction of the deflection prodnced in several metals .
The extent of the deflection in any substance depends among other things upon a certain constant designated by Professor HALL as the " " rotational coefficient In this table the sign prefixed to the number representing the coefficient according as the current is deflected in the same direction in which the conductor itself tends to move , or the opposite .
Below is given HALL'S table , appended to it the numbers representing the increase of specific resistance per unit temporary increase of length when this latter is produced by mechanical stress .
sign prefixed to the numbers denotes an increase , and a sign a decrease of specific resistance .
* ' Nature , ' Nov. 10 , 1881 .
( Abstract of a note on the above subject read by Professor E. H. HALL at the meeting of the British Association at York .
) TABLE XXXIV .
Considering that HALL himself is doubtful about the order of the metals in the centre of the list , there seems to be a well-marked relation between the " " rotational coefficient\ldquo ; and the alteration of specific resistance from temporary mechanical stress .
This relationship is strikingly apparent in the case of the metals iron , zin , copper , aluminium , and nickel , and there can be but little doubt that results of extreme interest might be obtained by observations of the effect of mechanical stress and strain on the " " rotational coefficient THE RELATION BETWEEN ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE AND SCOSITY Whilst endeavouring to find a relation between the electrical resistances of substances and their other physical properties , I was struck with the failure which I experienced in finding any in the case of these properties which have been already examined , except one , and that is one which as yet I have not had time to examine with anything like the care which I hope at some future period to be able to bestow upon it , namely , that which has been called by Sir W. THOMSON , in the case of metals , their " " \ldquo ; The experiments , however , which have been made show clearl .
that there is in all probability a very close relationship between molecular friction and electrical resistance .
It is proposed to make extended observations of the diminution of amplitude of vibration of wires of considel.able length whilst the ] ations of very small amplitudes are magnified by a mirror attached to the vibrator ; so that small vibratory molecular displacement may be obtained , and further to examine the change of " " viscosity\ldquo ; produced by change of temperature .
It suffices , however , for the present to say that of the pure metals already examined , copper , silver , aluminium , zinc , and tin , the order of their " " viscosity\ldquo ; is the same as that of their specific electrical resistance .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
SuMMARy 0F PART II .
1 .
The electrical resistances of iron , steel , platinum , German-silver , copper , platinumsilver , brass , zinc , silver , aluminium , tin , lead , and carbon are temporarily increased by temporary longitudinal stress , the amount of increase being nearly , but not quite , proportional to the stress .
2 .
The specific electrical resistances of all the above metals , except aluminium , is likewise temporarily increased by temporary longitudinal stress ; with aluminium , however , the specific resistance is .
The total resistance and the specific resistance of nickel are both decreased by temporary longitudinal stress not exceeding a certain hmit , whilst beyond this limit further increase of stress begins to produce increase of resistance .
The alterations , both increase and decrease , are very considerably greater with this metal than those of any of the other substances examined .
3 .
The temporary alteration of specific resistance caused by is much less with the alloys German-silver , platinum-silver , and brass than with the several components of these alloys ; this would suggest an apparent relation between the change of resistance caused by alteration of temperature and that due to mechanical stress ; the former effect , however , is very much greater than the latter , if we regard the alterations of resistance attending the same amount of expansion in each case , and there is no doubt that the increase of resistance ensuing on rise of temperature is due almost entirely to other causes than mere expansion .
4 .
The elasticity of carbon rods varies considerably with different specimens , even from the same maker , and is nearly proportional in this case to the eighth power of the density .
Thick rods have generally a less density than thin ones , and less elasticity .
5 .
The specific resistance of carbon also varies considerably with different specimens from the same maker , but there is no apparent relationship between specific resistance and elasticity .
6 .
The increase of resistance caused by longitudinal stress is with different specimens of carbon as with different specimens of other substances very nearly proportional to the amount of temporary elongation produced by the stress , and though with the exception of tin and lead , the total alteration of resistance resulting from a given amount of stress is less with the metals which have been examined than with carbon , this is not so with guard to the alteration of specific resistance .
7 .
Compression produces on the electrical resistance of substances an effect of a contrary nature to extension .
8 .
Stress applied in a direction transverse to that of the current produces both temporary and permanent alteration of resistance of a nature opposite to that resulting from longitudinal traction .
9 .
Stress applied equally in all directions diminishes the total and the specific resistance of most metals .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE , OF STRESS 10 .
The alteration of the -point temperature of ice can be readily and tel determined by observations of the change of resistance produced by fluid accura pressure on metal wires placed in the 11 .
on the permanent alteration of resistance of meta wires produCed by stress furnish valuable information respecting the ' limit of elastlclty\ldquo ; of metals .
12 .
There are two critical points\ldquo ; in every metal at which en anges occur sudden the ratio of the permanent extension produced by any load and the itself , when the latter is gradually and carefnlly increased .
The first of these two points fixes the true " " limit of elasticity and the second the true breaking-point\ldquo ; of the metal .
With iron there are three , and perhaps more points 13 .
The\ldquo ; critical points\ldquo ; are evidently in most cases closely related to the moduli of elasticity .
14 .
The total resistance of most metals is permanently CreaSed by permanent longitudinal extension , but with nickel the total resistance is permanently decreased , provided the extension does not pass a certain limit ; beyond this limit further extension produces increase of resistance .
15 .
The rate at which a wire is " " running down\ldquo ; under the influence of a be very advantageously studied by observing the permanent increase of resistance produced by the load .
16 .
If be the " " breaking-load\ldquo ; of a metal wire , and be the load actually on the wire , the decrease per unit of the ocity of the increase of resistance is inversely proportional to : so that the actual " " breaking-load\ldquo ; of a wire can be calculated from observations of the rate of increase of resistance when a loaded wire is " " rlmnin down 17 .
The above-mentioned proportion holds good not only for one and the same metal but for different metals .
18 .
The result of experiments on the influence of permanent extension on the temporary alteration of resistance which can be produced by temporary longitudinal stress verifies the statement made in Part I. that " " the elasticity of a wire is diminished by permanent extension h0t eXCeeding a Certain limit , but bey0nd this limit inCreaSed The effect of permanent extension on the ation of resistance which can temporarily be produced in nickel by traction is very remarkable .
19 .
Permanent eXtension , hammering and torsion produce , even when carried to excess , very small changes in the speciffi electrical resistances of metals .
Most metals have their specific resistances increased by strain caused by the above-mentioned processes , provided the strain does not exceed a certain limit : beyond this limit further strain decreases the specific resistance .
In the case of iron and nickel , the eontrary , the specific resistance is at first decreased and afterwards increased .
20 .
The strain caused by heating annealed steel to a temperature slightly and very much in excess of that of the room produces effects on the specjfc resietanoe the metal of a kind Siil t0 th0Se CauSed by Small and great meCbaniCal strains .
AND STRAIN ON THE ACTION OF PHYSICAL FORCES .
21 .
The change of density which can be effected in metals by permanent extension , hammering , or torsion is small .
22 .
The amount of recovery of electrical conductibility which is produced by time in all metals which are in a state of strain varies considerably with the nature of the metal ; with platinum-silver the amount of recovery in a given time is very small , and with German-silver comparatively very large .
23 .
The recovery of electrical conductivity is in cases attended with increase of longitudinal and torsional elasticity .
24 .
Metals may be divided into two classes , as far as the influence of permanent strain on the susceptibility to temporary change of resistance from change of temperature is concerned .
In one class the strained wire is most increased in resistance by rise of temperature up to a certain limit , whilst beyond this limit further strain diminishes the first effect .
In the other class the converse takes place .
25 .
There is a close relationship etween the thermo-electric properties of strained and unstrained metals and their susceptibility to change of resistance from change of temperature .
26 .
The elasticity of annealed iron or steel is not but permanently increased by raising the temperature of these metals to C. The of annealed iron may also be very considerably and permanently dinuinished by the same process .
Mechanical strain influences the elasticity in the same manner as the strain caused by tempering , and we may say of both kinds of strain that in the case of iron and steel there are three " " critical y slight strain increasing , moderate strain diminishing , and excessive strain again increasing both the torsional and the longitudinal elasticity .
27 .
The temporary alteration of elasticity which is effected in the case of nickel by raising the temperature to C. is very noticeable .
Still more remarkable is the temporary alteration of susceptibility to change of resistance from change of stress which is produced by the same means .
28 .
The electrical istances of annealed iron , anneaJed steel , very hard steel , nickel , cobalt , bismuth and zinc are all increased by longitudinal msgnetization .
The alteration of resistance produced by the magnetization of annealed nickel is very remarkable .
29 .
The amount of increase of resistance produced in iron and nickel by longitudinal magnetization depends not only upon the magnetism induced , but also upon the magnetizing force , in such a manner that increase of resistance will be produced by increasing the magnetizin , even when the latter does not cause any appreciable increase of magnetism .
30 .
The increase of resistance which is produced by magnetization is probably not merely due to the rotation of the molecules of the magnetized substance as molecules , but to the electrical currents , which according to AMPERE'S hypothesis are constantly circulating round the molecules .
31 .
The circular\ldquo ; netization which is produced when a current flows through a wire of iron does not appreciably alter the electrical resistance of the wire .
32 .
The effects of temporary stress and of permanent on the alteration by magnetism of the resistance of an iron or nickel wire are of a Similar nature to those on the teration of the magnetic susceptibjlity of these metals .
33 .
There is a very striking relationship , both as regards amount and direction , between the alteration of specific resistance , which can be produced in a SubStance by longitudinal traction and the " " rotational coefficient\ldquo ; of the substance .
34 .
There evidently an intimate relationship between the " " viscosity\ldquo ; of a metal and its specific electrical resistance .

