190 Prof. J. A. Mac William .
On the Properties of the Arterial and Venous- Walls .
" By John A. MacWilliam , M.D. , Begins Professor of Physiology in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Sir Michael Poster , K.C.B. , Sec. B.S. Beeeived October 24 , _________ Bead November 21,1901 .
( Abstract .
) The present investigation has included a very large number of ex-penments , performed at different times during the last 10 years , the blood-vessels of the ox , horse , and sheep being the ones chiefly examined .
The conclusions arrived at apply to the vessels of healthy animals . .
Post-mortem Contraction.\#151 ; The occurrence of post-mortem contraction in the arteries is described , and its exciting causes ( mechanical stimulation , exposure to air , cooling , \amp ; c. ) stated , and the remarkable persistence of this contraction over many days\#151 ; in the case of the horse 's carotid kept in olive oil over a fortnight , \amp ; c. The influence of chloroform vapour and saline decoction of suprarenal medulla in causing or increasing contraction are described .
Also the method of preventing the occurrence of post-mortem contraction by freezing , and various methods of removing contraction when it has !
once^ been established , by potassium sulphocyanide , ammonia vapour , heating to 50'\#151 ; 55 ' C. , keeping at 38'\#151 ; 40 ' C. for 24 hours , \amp ; c. , or| merely keeping at room temperature ( in blood ) for a number of days .
3 The different effects of sulphocyanide on arterial muscle and on skeletal !
muscle are illustrated .
Very different measurements ( as to lumen , thickness of wall , \amp ; c. ) are obtained from the same artery in contraction and in relaxation .
If Effects of Changes in Temperature.\#151 ; The effects of changes of tempera-j ture have been studied in various ways\#151 ; by causing strips ( transverse j and longitudinal ) of the vascular wall to act upon recording levers 1 ( supported by long , feeble , spiral springs ) while the strips were heated J in an oil-bath , \amp ; c. Belaxed arteries give results very different from contracted arteries , I and generally similar to veins\#151 ; the chief feature on heating being a 1 very marked shortening at 60'\#151 ; 65 ' C. Contracted arteries show a definite series of changes when the tern-1 perature is raised .
Up till two or three days after death there are 1 usually the following changes:\#151 ; Shortening between 25 ' and 35 % I lengthening about 40 , shortening at 45'\#151 ; 50 ' , extensive lengthening at I 50 55 , \amp ; c. , shortening at 60'\#151 ; 65 ' ; a certain amount of lengthen- 1 ing occurs during subsequent cooling .
When the artery is kept longer these changes show a definite order 1 of disappearance j while any contraction remains there is always 1 relaxation at 50 \#151 ; 55 , while at a later stage , when contraction is J On the Properties of the Arterial and Venous Walls .
191 absent , there is only the 60'\#151 ; 65 ' shortening\#151 ; with the usual lengthening on cooling .
Tracings are given to illustrate these changes .
^ The general behaviour of the arterial muscle is strikingly similar in its general character to what occurs in the bladder ( cat ) , while its muscle is unquestionably alive .
The changes seen in strips from the aorta and the pulmonary artery are slighter in amount ( though similar in general character ) in accordance with the relatively small amount of muscular tissue in the walls of those vessels .
The effects of heat upon saline extracts of contracted and relaxed arteries are examined and compared with the changes shown by the arterial strips .
It is shown that there is no necessary relation between the phases of shortening and the coagulation of proteids in the arterial wall .
Coagulation occurs in an acidulated 5 per cent. MgS04 extract of artery at 45'\#151 ; 50 ' and at 55'\#151 ; 60 ' .
Experiments were made to ascertain whether proteid coagulation occurred in the tissues of the arterial wall at the same temperatures as in saline extracts .
3 \#166 ; Contraction v. Rigor Mortis.\#151 ; Post-mortem contraction is evidently a true persistent contraction\#151 ; very different in its character from the rigor mortis of skeletal muscle .
This is shown by evidence of various kinds\#151 ; ( 1 ) the effects of stimulation ; ( 2 ) sulphocyanide ; ( 3 ) heat ; ( 4 ) the results of extension of strips of the arterial wall by weights ; ( 5 ) the behaviour of the artery when distended by internal pressure , \amp ; c. Elasticity of the Arterial and Venous Walls .
\#151 ; This was tested by weighting strips cut transversely and longitudinally from the carotid , \amp ; c. Relaxed arteries , as well as veins , gave maximum elongation with the first addition of weight , while contracted arteries showed increments of length increasing up to a maximum and then declining , the curve being first convex towards the axis and then concave in marked contrast to what is obtained with skeletal muscle and other tissues .
When stretched a second time the maximal elongation comes at the beginning . .
f Strips from the aorta and pulmonary artery behave much like strips from a relaxed carotid .
... . .
I Both the relaxed and contracted arteries show increased extensibility with light weights when stretched a second time , f Illustrative tracings are given in the paper .
I Relation of Cubic Capacity to Internal Pressure.\#151 ; The portion of artery examined was placed in an oil plethysmograph , and the air pressure m the interior of the artery was raised by means of a system of pressure bottles .
I Relaxed arteries were found to be most distensible at low pressures ; the maximum increase of volume per unit rise of pressure comes when the pressure is raised from zero , as a rule .
192 On the Properties of the Arterial and Venous Walls .
Contracted arteries show increasing increments of volume per unit rise ' of pressure up to a certain maximum , then diminishing increments .
In a strongly contracted artery an enormous pressure ( several hundred mm. Hg ) , vastly higher than the normal blood-pressure of the animal , is required in order to obtain the maximal increase of volume ; when contraction is weaker , the level of pressure at which extensibility is greatest is much lower ( e.g. , 100\#151 ; 120 mm. ) , and when contraction is feeble the maximal increase in volume may occur at 40\#151 ; 60 mm. ; it comes immediately above zero when contraction has been completely abolished , as a result of keeping the artery for a number of days in blood , heating to 40 ' for a number of hours , or to 50'\#151 ; 55 ' for a few minutes , freezing for some hours , treatment with ammonia vapour , sulphocyanide , \amp ; c. Both contracted and relaxed arteries show increased distensibility when they have already been distended by a previous rise of pressure .
The main features in the behaviour of the artery are shown by diagrams , and numerical details are given .
Elongation of an Artery when Distended by a Rise of Internal Pressure.\#151 ; Relaxed arteries elongate vastly more than contracted ones when the internal pressure is raised , e.g. , from 0 to 300 mm. Hg .
The character of the tracing is very different in the two cases .
In the relaxed artery the maximum elongation per unit rise of pressure comes early\#151 ; usually with the first rise , e.g. , from 0 to 50 mm. Hg .
; f In the contracted artery the elongation with the first rise is small ; it gradually increases with subsequent rises\#151 ; -up to a maximum , which in the case of a strongly contracted artery is only reached with pressures much higher than those stated above .
Tracings are given to illustrate the changes in relaxed and contracted arteries .
Pulsatile Expansion of Arteries.\#151 ; With a succession of sudden , brief elevations of pressure within an artery the pulsatile expansion of the tube is vastly greater in a relaxed artery than in a contracted one .
In the former the maximum expansion is got when the brief rise of pressure starts from zero ; the expansion becomes smaller at higher pressures .
The observations were made with the aid of a plethysmograph .
Among the most important points described in the paper are\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The remarkable persistence of vitality in the arteries of a healthy animal for days after the death of the animal .
( 2 .
) The great importance of the presence or absence of post-mortem contraction in influencing not only the measurements of the artery but its behaviour in Various respects\#151 ; ( a. ) Response to changes in temperature .
( b. ) Extensibility of strips of the arterial wall when weighted .
1 ( c. ) Relation of cubic capacity to changes in internal pressure .
Heredity , Differentiation , and other Conceptions of Biology .
193 ( d. ) Elongation accompanying rises of internal pressure .
( e. ) Pulsatile increase of volume during sudden brief elevations of internal pressure .
The discordant results obtained by various observers ( Marey , Roy , and others ) as regards the distensibility of arteries , are in large measure ' explicable by the absence or presence ( in varying degree ) of post- , vmtem contraction in the arteries they used in their experiments .
[ " Heredity , Differentiation , and other Conceptions of Biology : a Consideration of Professor Karl Pearson 's paper 'On the Principle of Homotyposis .
' ' ' By W. Bateson , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 25 , \#151 ; Read February 1901 .
In his paper on " Homotyposis , " * of which an abstract appeared in the1 ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 , p. 1 , Professor Pearson raises an issue of extraordinary importance .
In any attempt to perceive the true relation of variation to differentiation , and to analyse the essential similitude-existing between Heredity and Repetition of Parts , we reach a fundamental problem of biology .
Little has thus far been done towards elucidating this problem or even towards formulating it .
The appearance of Professor Pearson 's remarkable memoir may perhaps therefore with profit be taken as an occasion for considering critically some aspects of these questions .
It is impossible to write of Professor Pearson 's paper without , expressing a sense of the extraordinary effort which has gone to its production and of the ingenuity it displays .
But on careful examination it will , I think , be seen that in the light of known facts there is serious doubt whether the determination of what Professor Pearson calls the average homotyposis of " undifferentiated like parts can be attained by his observations , and that there is even graver doubt whether , if it was attainable , such a Value would have any natural significance .
In the course of this consideration it must , I think , also* appear that the comparison he attempts between the average homotyposis of " undifferentiated like parts " and average fraternal correlation in families is incorrectly instituted .
# At the outset I wish to express the conviction that the leading idea which inspired and runs through the work is a true one .
.Professor Pearson suggests that the relationship and likeness between two brothers is an expression of the same phenomenon as the relationship and likeness between two leaves on the same tree , between the scales on a moth 's wing , the petals of a flower , and between repeated parts .
* * Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1901 , vol. 197 , p. 285 .

