Fig.1 C Tab. 3 .
A O P I ~ E BF N Fig. 2 .
C D ~A O ~M DDD LL F M NH Fig. 3 .
D Fig. 4 .
Fig.6 .
Fig.7 .
Fig.8 .
A Letter from Mr William Cole of Bristol , to the Phil. Society of Oxford ; containing his Observations on the Purple Fish .
GENTLEME N , THere being many Natural things , which I have formerly , and of late , happily found in the South and West parts of England , not ( as I can find ) published by any Author ; besides many more , which have been discovered by the industrious exquisitions of divers ingenious and curious Searchers of Nature ; ( as also others which were before thought to be Exotiques ; ) I have reason to believe , that there are very many more ( for encouragement of such Inquirers ) yet undiscovered in this our Native Country .
Among others , that of the Purple-Fish , which I found the last Winter , on the Sea Coasts of Somerset-shire , and the shores of South-Wales opposite to it ; and which also I doubt not but may be found on the other Coasts of England , especially the South and Western parts , ( in which I am almost assured I have formerly seen them , though then unknown to me , ) where there are Rocks and great Pebbles , and where the Tides run not too strong .
Which discovery I do not pretend to be so made by me , as having no hint of it before ; for in October,1684 , there were two Ladies at Mynehead , ( where I then was , )who(seeing what collections I had made of Natural things in those parts , ) told me , there was a certain person living by the Sea-side in some Port or Creek in Ireland , who made considerable gain , by marking with a delicate durableCrimson Colour , fine Linen of Ladies , Gent .
&amp;c. sent from many parts of that Island , with their names , or otherwise as they pleased ; which , they told me , ( as they were informed , ) was made by some liquid substance taken out of a Shell-fish ; upon which , I showed them all the Shells I had found on that Coast ; one of them thought it to be taken out of a Limpot ; the other out of that Shell here figured and described ; but neither of them could inform me out of what part it was taken in either .
After their departure from that Port , I made experiments on all the ShellFishes , in which I might probably think to find it ; and brake them while the Fishes were alive in them , and with a short pointed Pencil of Horse hair ( no other instrument being so convenient , ) I tried every part of each , which I imagined might yield the colour ; but upon washing the Linen ( which I had marked ) in scalding water , with sope , there appeared nothing of any colour on them ; upon which I was ready to give over any farther search ; but at length trying that part ( in which I little thought the Tincture lay , )it immediately turned to a light green ; which being presently dried and washed , as before , there appeared that delicate colour they told me of , as aforesaid .
Yyy The The whole process , upon my oft repeated experiments , was as follows .
These Shells , being harder then most of other kinds , are to be broken with a smart stroke of a hammer , on a plate of Iron , or firm piece of Timber , ( with their mouths downwards ) so as not to crush the body of the Fish within : the broken pieces being picked off , there will appear a white Vein , lying transversly in a little furrow or cleft , next to the head of theFish , which must be dug out with the stiff point of the Horse hair pencil , being made short and tapering ; which must be so formed , by reason of the viscous clamminess of that white Liquor in the Vein , that so by its stiffness , it may drive in the matter into the fine Linen , or white Silk ; which ( all though I have not yet tried it ) will ( I think ) be better then on Linen , and make the colour appear more bright and vivid by its reflection .
The Letters , figures , or what else shall be made on the Linen or Silk , ( as much forced in , as it can be by the pencil , ) will presently appear of a pleasant light green colour ; and , if placed in the Sun , will change into the following colours ; i. e. if in Winter , about noon , if in the Summer , an hour or two after Sun rising , and so much before setting , ( for in the heat of the day , in Summer , the colours will come on so fast , that the succession of each colour , will scarce be distinguisht ; ) next to the first light green , it will appear of a deep green ; and in few minutes change into a full Sea-green ; after which , in a few minutes more , it will alter into a Watchet blew ; from that , in a little time more , it will be of a Purplish red : after which , lying an hour or two , ( supposing the Sun still shining ) it will be of a very deep Purple red , beyond which the Sun can do no more .
Note , that these changes are made faster or slower , according to the degrees of the Suns heat .
But then the last and most beautiful colour , ( after washing ing in scalding water and sope , ) will ( the matter being again put out into the Sun or wind to dry , ) be much a differing colour from all those mentioned .
i. e. of a fair bright Crimson , or near to the Prince 's colour ; which afterwards(not withstanding there is no use of any Stiptic to bind the colour ) will continue the same , if well ordered ; as I have found in handkerchers , that have been washed more then 40 times ; only it will be somewhat allayed , from what it was , after the first washing .
I made large Letters on so many cloths , as there are distinct colours , to put them into a Book , which kept them from the Air ; I have several months after , showed the various colours distinct as aforesaid ; yet by often opening the Book , and so exposing them to the Air , all the colours , excepting the two last , ( I mean before washing either ) will fade ; but all the colours , being washed , will be one and the same .
While the Cloth so writ upon , lies in the Sun , it will yield a very strong fetid smell ; ( which divers who have smelt it could not endure , ) as if Garlic &amp; Assa-faetida were mixed together : which I proved but few days before I wrote this , though it had been at least twelve months , kept in a Book , and before it was laid in the Sun , had very little of that smell .
I have farther observed , that the cloth dried and washed , soon after it is wrote on , will appear fresher &amp; brighter , then after being long kept in a Book ; as I found by some I newly caused to be washed , after they had been 14 months so kept .
The Shells are of divers colours , but the most part of them white ; some are red , when newly taken off the Rocks ; some yellow ; others of both those colours ; some a blackish brown ; many of a Sandy colour ; and some few striped with white and brown parallel lines : I have herewith sent you most of the colours , with one of the largest I have found , and one of the least ; with several of the middle sized .
The first Linen Cloths marked with Letters and Names , I sent to Dr Plot in Nov. 1684 , being then one of the Secretaries to the Royal Society , in London , to whom he communicating my Letter , containing my first observations , and also showing the Linen so marked ( at the same time , ) advised me that it was so acceptable to them , that they were pleased to order him to return me their thanks ; and that they had appointed some Gent .
to wait on his late Majesty with them ; who ( with divers Persons of Honour to whom they were shown ) was much pleased with the sight , and relation of the discovery , as new unto him .
After which I was desired to send up some of the Shells with the Fishes alive in them ; which could not be done any other way , then by sending them in some Ship bound for London , in an open Earthen Pan ; renewing the Sea-water every day:after which manner I have kept them near a fortnight , &amp; longer I might , had I not made use of them ; for it seems to be a kind of Amphibious Animal , alternately living in both Elements every Tide : being out of their native place , and in want of such Vicissitudes , they take this course to find the Air ; when any of them are put into a Vessel of Seawater , ( for in fresh they soon expire , ) after they have lain some time on the bottom of the Vessel , they creep up to the superficies of the water , and by extending a kind of Lipp , with their operculums , cling to the side of the Vessel or Pan , ( which is most convenient for their ascent , ) with about half that part above the water , sometimes creeping down under it , and , returning again to their station , between Wind and Water .
This I designed to accomplish , and was contriving this way to gratify their desires ; to the end his Majesty the great Patron and Founder of their Society , might have the pleasing diversion of seeing the experiment made in his Royal presence ; but a stop was put to this design by a Calamity too great and public to be mentioned .
There are other imperfect observations , which I have made of this our Purple-Fish ; which I may in some time give you a better account of , viz. 1 At what age of the Moon , and time of the Tides ( i. e. Spring or Neap , ) their Veins are fullest , and give the best Tincture ?
for I have found a difference , they being sometimes fuller and whiter , and the juice more viscid , at other times more flaccid and watery .
2 Whether they are in greater perfection in Summer or Winter ?
having not , as I expected received any of them this last Summer , to make that experiment , by reason of our Western troubles in the late Rebellion .
Such as are inclined to these Inquiries , and have more liberty from business then I have , may make farther improvements of this thing , in the preparations of it by Urine , Salt , &amp; c.mentioned by Pliny and other Authors .
And although the Shells are small , yet their abundance on our Coasts , may yield matter enough , ( with the more pains ) to die a quantity of fine Wool , or Silk , so as to render the discovery some way useful , and to answer the vulgar objection of cui bono , made by such persons , who own no good but what relates to the Body .
I am of opinion there may be found on our marine Coasts , some bigger Shells , which may have a colouring juice , though not the same with this , for that I know few Natural things both of Animals and Vegetables , but what have divers sorts of the same kind in the same place .
This may be a sufficient intimation to all Ingenious persons , living near the Sea , to employ some time to find this out .
My purpose was , with this discourse to have drawn and sent you figures of these Shells , with the Fish pulled out and extended beyond the Vein , together with their Operculum ; to which end I sent lately for some of them , but they being not yet come ( to satisfy the desires of some Gent .
of the Society ) I have sent it now , ( in that Yyy3 particular , ) particular , ) not so perfect as I could wish .
As for the qualities of this Fish , I can say but little , only I was assured by some who had boiled , dressed , and eaten of them , that they are wholesome food ; as good at least , and taste as well , as Lympots or Winkles , only the flesh something harder .
For what use nature hath designed this Vein of colouring juice , unto the Animal , will be difficult to find out ; perhaps it may be the spermatic and prolific matter , by which they propagate their kind ; which I am inclinable to think , from its consistence , virulent and faetid savor .
A Microscope ( which I had not then with me ) might have given some light in this matter , and confirmed it , if those Animalcula are to be found in it , which are in the Masculine Sperm of Fish , and other living Creatures , ( as some affirm , from the many late experiments they have made .
) Or else it may be a humour in this Animal , which by its Vital energy , as the spring of life and motion , supplies the want of heart , liver , blood , &amp;c. as in other exsanguineous Animals .
Those who shall seek after them may find , as I have done , some of those Purple Shells , in which are the Cancelli , or rather Astaci , unto which they are more like , and so may mistake ; for those little Crabs or Crawfishes , I have found in most of our English Shells , excepting the bivalved , and Patella 's ; of which in many parts , ( especially in the West-Indies , ) there are many sorts , and some very large ; which our Country-men there call the Soldiers ; for that , they say , they enter by force , kill , and take possession of those houses they have not built ; and when they grow too big , forsake them , and enter into larger : whether that be true , I know not ; This I have found , when I have broken some of the Shells in which those vagrants are , so as not to bruise their bodies , and then put them naked into the water , I have beheld them with nimble springing motion , to run to and fro till they find a stone to hide themselves under ; which not finding , they bury themselves in the loose sand : and this observation gave me full satisfaction , that they were not ( at least all the kinds , )connate &amp; coalescent with their Shells , as other testaceous Animals of the Sea and Land are ; but this being besides my purpose , I return to the Purpura .
There is no doubt , but that it is a species of that kind ; of which there are many sorts , differing in bigness , structure , colour of the Shell , according to the nature of the Sea grounds , depth or shallowness of Water , Rocks , Gravel , Mud , as also the Latitude where they are found ; and so differing also in the varietys of colours of the tinging juice in their Veins , as black , livid , violaceous , deep Sea-green , light and deep red , Amethystine , &amp;c. but the best of all were found in the Tyrian Seas , near that Island , on which the renowned City of Tyre was built , ( now an inconsiderable Town called Sir ; ) this was celebrated , and prised above all the rest , for that it excelled them all in its illustrious colour , called in former Ages by divers names , as Ostrum Sarranum , Pelagium , Venenum Tyrium , Purpurissum , Flores Tyriani , &amp;c. Almost all Authors agree , that it lys in a certain Vein in the Fish , and some of them mention it to be white &amp; viscous , as this of ours is .
It were to little purpose , to give the History at large of all the Purpurae ; and when and how first discovered by Phaenix the Son of Agenor , 2d King of the Phaenicians , by means of a Shepherds Dog devouring one of the Fishes , and colouring one of his lips with that excellent dye : by which its Antiquity appears .
In succeeding Ages it received improvements , to the time of Pliny , in whose days ( being in the reign of the Vespasians , ) it seems to have arrived at its highest perfection ; of which he hath made more particular observations then I can find in other Authors ; for which he had great opportunity living in the Imperial City of the World , where the Artists in preparations of that tinging Succus , for dying the Robes and other Vestments of Emperors , Senators , &amp;c. strove to excel each other in new fashioned Purples for their own gain , and to gratify the luxuriant excess of the Great ones of those times , by preparing and mixing the colour ( found in the several sorts of Shells as aforesaid .
) This colour sold then at great prises ; that which was the fine double dyed Purple of Tyre , called Diabapha , yielded 1000 Roman Denarii the pound , which is computed to be more then 30l Sterling , and this of ours being so excellent a colour , with out other preparation or addition of any thing to it , may now or atleast hereafter by ( farther improvement ) vie with the Tyrian Purple .
Johnston out of Aristotle , mentions a species of these Fishes under the name , of Littorales quaeparvae , &amp; flore sunt rubro ; this agrees with ours , which may be named Purpura littor alis ( sive Taniensis ) parva turbinata .
Since the importunity of some friends hath hastned this discourse sooner then I intended , ( and so prevented those farther experiments which I might have made this next Summer ; ) presuming on your favourable acceptance , and excusing of the imperfections of it , which could not be so well digested ( in the Method of it ) as it might have been , were I not engaged in publique employment , which requires my daily attendance ; I have therefore now presented you with it as it is : And if I find it grateful to you , &amp; to such others , as shall happen to read it , I shall be encouraged to impart other things , which I esteem no less considerable then this ; to the end that the stupendious works of nature , or rather of the God of nature , ( in which are clearly seen his infinite wisdom power and goodness , ) may by us , as his Instruments , be celebrated for his glory : In whose service I am one of the least of your Society WILLIAMCOL E. Tab. 3 .
Fig. 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , Several Shells of the Purpura , in their Natural bigness .
Fig. 8 .
the Operculum .
A Letter

