]\gt ; odynamic nations oa Jforin9 } ?
nller particles , as has been by J. J. Thomson entirely different evidence ; but results too fe to ( rber speculation on their meaning of much value .
ote on the Complete Schcme of ElectrodynaJnic Fquations of a Moving Matel.ial lledium , and on \ldquo ; By LARIIOR , , Fellow of St. John 's Cambridge .
Received lIay 17 , \mdash ; Rcad May 26 , lS98 .
his note forms a supplement to my third memoir on the " " Theory of the Elher , the sections the referenccs 1.1 made .
It is in tended in the first place to express with full genernlity electrodynamio tions of a erial mcdium in any oner , { hus completing the scheme which has been already develsubject to restrictions in the memoirs referred to .
obtain a definite and consistcnt theorctical basis it ontemplate the system as made up of discrete molecules , lving in their constitutious orbital vstems of electrons , and rino through nant lther .
is unnccessary , the mere development of the tions , to any notion such translation across the aether be ribly C : , inasm as its strangeness , when in li of iolt a terial m and the rbance of the dium thereby produced , has often led to a feeling of its , and to an attitude of agnosticism ence to [ stitution , it seems able that a kinemat.c scheme sucl ] ns re explained , depending on the conception of a clastic ler , should have a ftce ll the foundations itation , resting on } Cl.uples , in ftCccf ) as a rotational , seems to be 110 uld a diffidel ) in .
the to be contilluolf$ stic medium of heory of is ] tho.f origin of clasticity of the ) .
is ferent primitive notion abrupt collisions of ]ltoleculcs : in { ality of inconpresRible licl ) effective its ndamental tlrat not yct even beeu collccived .
] in what is important practical ( 0lnsed and definitc basis from which to develop lllte]'I:Cll]CV mifications of a physical schelne : and in is the of deepet .
3 Dr. J. Lal.mor .
Complete of expand , transform , and even modify in detail .
Altbh .
howover , it is possible we may thus be able ulbimately to ) deeper into blem of constitution , just as the theoly has done the case of atmospheric , yet does not seem to be present any indication whafever of any call bring that medium so .
to us in deffiil as our eliom c of mattcr : so that from this standpoint much to said in favour of definifely regarding the schems continuous otationally elastic ) ther as an ultimate one .
A form ] scheme of the dynamical relations of free aether after the manncr of Iaxwell MacCullagh , an a notion as clear as obtained of the aethereal constitution .
moIecule and its associated electrons , by aid of the tioual hypothesis , it emains to effecb with complete llsltion between a molecular heory of the aethereal or elscic field }which considers ) moIecuIes separately , and a continuJs theory expressed by ations which take cogniza1 properties of tl eloment of volume , the latLer ah .
the proper domain of mech nical as distinct from theory .
Thistransfornlation is , ns usual , accomplished by replacg summations over tho ibution of molecules by continuous ntions over the space occupied by them .
In cases where tegr .
concerned all ronlai]l when the origin to which ] refer 1s lnside tho ' so that the limit of the radius vecr is null , is no difficnlty in the transition : this is for exam 6 tbc case ordinary theory of oo.ravitational forces .
mportallt ) nches of the of polarised media , the exprcssions become finite under tihese this is an that it is llot itimate to replace the of the parb of tho disc.rete distribution of molecuJes which is adjac to tho point considered by that of a continuous material result of the stil ] , owever , gives a valid estimaf , ihe effect of the matel.ial system as a , if we bear in mind ffi the finite t at the inncl Jimit )resents finite ) of sult d ) cnding so lcly on the local molecular cc tion , a whose nitude could be determined on when that ltion is exactly assigned or known .
Tho co of pnrt is altogebhel evnded by mea a ciplo which I alIed the incip of bllal censation of forci erts that , whon tion of ths effect ou a molecule aris : the action of the moleculos , this part must litted fcount in the nechanical effect on a volume of the mediutll ; indeod otherwise be impossible .
tlal , st tically e ] . .
I teri aions of molecules determine the of the medium , any change involves chan in its local physical constants properties , which may or may not be according to nces : but such local action ibutes nothing towards arising or the element of mass whose sbrucbure is thus tituted , and there['ore to mechanical excitation , unless at Qlace where there is abrupt of In memoir tioned this molecular pl'inciple was applied mainly to ermine the nlechanical stress a polal'ised material medium .
It 1jessarily also entel .
S into the determiuation of the electrodynamic tlations of a moving medium treated as a contiIlnous system , and of a netised mcdium at rest , consideration of its lecular constitution .
It is here intended only to record ill precise the general scheme that restllbs it , details of demonstrfiIn } ) eing for the present reserved .
Ever .
being expressed in continuous s per unit volume .
let denote the rrent the total current of Maxwell , electric displacement in the aethel and the electric larisation of the molecules so that the total so-called displacement of Maxwell is ; let be the volume-density uncompensated electrons or the density of free charge , let the magnetisation , and the velocity of the matter with PeCt to the stagnant aether .
As before explained ( S 13 , foobnote ) , convection of the material polarisation produces asi-magnetisation which on to , C .
AIso , as before shown , the vector potential the hereal field , so far as it comes from the constitutc tion , given , for a point outside th xgnetism , by being the .
of is that dne to current together eets on the jntel.faccf , .
Vhell the point the } no ities in the inte ossing 1 and it ation is still Dr. .I .
of lectrodynamic # the spRcial differentia ] coefficients of are also invok .
in the forcives of the ethereal field , and with them the diffex.ent : the tion by parts is fhen analytically ow ng to neglec.t of the infinite elements at the actuality a finite portion of the whole effect arises from influence of the neighbouring molecules .
We lIave , efore , molecular nciple , to separate the infinite elements from integrals and leave them out of account ; and this is effectod emplyg the second form above for , which diffel .
S from the\amp ; I form only in havlng got rid of the Iocal terms at the origin ifferential coefficienlts .
Thus it is not ] convenient , but ecessary f a mecbanical theory , which considers distributitf instead of individual nolecules , to replace magnetism by ellb continuous current system as here .
The quasi-magnetism arisig from electric convection adds to { his alent current sysh the additional bodily terms , . . . .
, { ogether with surface sheets : thus the current so added for -component represents , or the rate of change supposed associated with the moving matter .
Combining parts , the and magnetism together complete epresented as tion of electric effect by what call where together with superficia ] currel ) from the tru magnetism and the electric convection .
Since equal to write in the last term may be xpressed as quations of AIaterinl is to be this effective current satisfies the condiof incompressible flow , *which by definition ( or rather by the constitution ) is necessRrily satisfied ) the toial } of the memoirs ; for terms hich resent b magnetism atisfy the stl.eam relation .
The of the scheme of elec dynamic relations is blished ) the previous memoirs .
Thus now simply hich satisfies the stream relation because is a vector , we deduce an acting on the electrons , whel.e an straining the aether , ion determined in ) roble ) so as rhereal compression .
Lcross an abrupt tl.ansibion , and the 1lormal compollcnt .
must be continuous , thus king u ) the ] ) sufficient interfacial conditions .
of iwever , nob continuous when is lvection , accoullt effective rent s mentioued .
exacl ) the ) It proposed to call a ecbor w ob general term flow or jlnx cllscb likc tho } of ) at in the condition of } of is not .
Tllc in elasscs of ] may called luding s entities as orces and appropriale when the { orcu bhe gradient 01 ' potential .
Lord Kelvin term clrru , used to denote a stream ; but it } ) bett .
to it to aeral vectol .
is dirccted :dong of Tho of S 13 , ever , iuclmled jsing of tric prisatiou .
Noticc thtlt whon this is to , we : is no condu is therefore convected so currenl ) requircs that is .
* 370 .
J. of formulae , with exception of the one for includcs quasi-magnetism arising from lvection , while is the total electric current that all magnetic effect of whatever type has been omitted .
bo oteoi that final terms in X involve in sbrictness force , instead of bhe force as in S39 .
lt follows the for that ; relation prorided of dloe matter is niform in is a vector , whero esents the total of Maxwell , and , , C ) holo of tl and the quasi-magnetism of vcction : above ) ( nder es .
But in of electric convection these two relations } old n uhtlally by themselves form the basis of a lctc scheme of equations , they do when the mcdium est .
To let tho scheme , tho above dynamical tions m by the tional relations connecting the cond tion lrrent with the cctric f , the tion with ) ) olccric force , gnctism with the magnetic force .
In relations are of types , c- , P , .
lt is to be observed that the physical constallts which enter into expression of tions will presumably be ltcred by the aethel of material to which ] they because is in the systcm , reversal is motion old llot the thel.eforc their musl depend the SqQare of the ratio of velocity of systcm to that of adintion , and would only cntel in a secoI oximation .
obleulh electric cction a oPtia of a Moving Jlaterial Medium , Irration worked out in SS 14\mdash ; 16 , pp. 225\mdash ; 229 , will be found to iimto this scheme .
I take the opportunity of an erratum , lines 16 , 17 , which should read lth of coul.se diffcrent values of the .
Iu a the bodily cive is derived a potential , and there is also a nol'mal iuward tion K where it abuts on conductors .
' the dielccshell of a condensel .
this cive could be balanced by a hydrotogether wibh a Maxwell strcss sisting of a pressure along the lines of lorce and an sion at to them : in fact this reacting system gives correct traction over tlJe faces 01 : the sheet and the correct cive throughout its substance .
If the sheet has an open the retions on that edge are howevcr not here attended to ; the is thin these are of small amoullt , and .
effect is , as vise the ature of the would be an importan emenb .
lloreover , i11 the important applications of the mula the edge is of small extent , so that form a local bically balanced system .
The stress above specified will thus resent the material elastic reaction , the strains 1 tho ferent elements of volume , which correspond to it , can fit together bhout breach of continuity of the solid .
This condition secured if the shell is of thickness so that is over it : in that case , therefore , the elastic reaction in the matcrial 11 make up a , aloug the lines of force and a essure iu ectious at to bich result obtained for solids in S 76 .
If , however , the of colldcnser are not supported by the lectric shcll , the elastic ction in the will be simply a uniform iu all directions .
This is what tually occurs the of { luid , where lpport not iblo .
from S 79 in is nally an of lumc uuder electric tiou , while the oducG , diminution : and the is no most the fatty oils exception by a tween a and ctio tho csult was as the )posite .
It thus appe that in gonel.al all insic oxpallsion , in ldition to the effects of the mechanical ccompanies e of : Equations of a Mxterial excitation of material dielectrics .
This cumstance will pMps recall to mind Osborne Reynolds ' theory of the dilatancy of grtnlat .
media , which explains that the elements of such nJia tolld to settle down the influences of their as to the smallest volumo , and thelefol.e any disturbing olbe has a tendency to increase the volume .
In S 80 , on the of electl.ic polarisation on ripple velot the result stated for dielectrics should be doubled .
It is remarked that liquid surface becomes in a uniform vertical eleetric field when the square of the total ) tinuous vertical electric displaoement exceeds the moderate vue electrostatic units , being the lary tension .
a .
liquid instability ensues when square of the sul.facc electric density exceeds ostatic units .
In exciting dielectric liquid by the approach electriiied rod it must ofteu have beeu noticed that when the ro brought too near , tho liquid spurbs out orously in filaments 0 jets : the fineness of the filaments ma .
be explainetin part at ally rate , after Lord Rayleigh ( ' Phil. Mag 1882 , " " of Sound S364 ) , without assuming an cscape of elecbricity into liquid , as the ci CUlllstanco that it is only narrow cri tious of the SUl.face , extensive deformations , that unstable .
The opportunity is takell to correct othel the : ' Phil. Tralls , 1897 , as :\mdash ; , line for 4 , , , 18 , the ' is omitted .

