316 Remarks on Mr. Plimmer'sNote on Effects 'produced in Rats by the Trypanosomata of Gambian Fever and Sleeping Sickness .
By H. Wolfekstan Thomas , M.D. , C.M. ( McGill ) ( J. H. Todd Memorial Fellow in Tropical Medicine ) , Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine , Johnston Tropical Laboratory , University , Liverpool .
( Communicated by Professor R. Boyce , F.R.S. Received April 8 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Mr. Plimmer reports observations* on three rats inoculated with trypanosomes from a monkey infected with the parasite of Uganda Sleeping Sickness and on 14 rats infected with the trypanosoma of Gambian Fever .
The three rats inoculated with Uganda Sleeping Sickness never exhibited organisms in their blood , but after six to nine months developed paresis ending in death .
Post-mortem.\#151 ; No macroscopic lesions of any organ were found .
Examination of the blood gave negative results , as also did extracts of the organs , except that of the spinal cord , in which a few trypanosomes were found .
Animals inoculated with some of this spinal cord extract did not show parasites in their blood .
The rats infected with the Gambian Fever trypanosoma showed parasites in their blood and died .
Mr. Plimmer concludes from these experiments that Gambian Fever and Uganda Sleeping Sickness are distinct diseases .
My colleague , Dr. Linton , and myself compared the animal reactions of the trypanosomes derived from Uganda and Congo Free State Sleeping Sickness cases , and Uganda and Congo Free State trypanosome fever cases , with those of the parasites obtained by Drs. Dutton and Todd from three cases of natives suffering from Gambian Fever .
I have had the opportunity of using the same strain of Uganda Sleeping Sickness parasite as Mr. Plimmer , and he has experimented with one of the strains of trypanosomes from the Gambia Fever cases .
I have been able to compare 10 strains derived from Congo Free State Sleeping Sickness cases which were sent me by the members of our Congo kree State Expedition .
In addition 1 have had four strains of Congo Native * H. Gf .
Plimmer , F.L.S. , " Note on the Effect produced on Rats by the Trypanosomata of Gambia Fever and Sleeping Sickness , " communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. , received December 1 , 1904 , read January 19 , 1905.\#151 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 No. 504 , February 24 , 1905 , vol. 74 , pp. 388\#151 ; 390 .
Remarks on Mr. Plimmer s Note on Gambian , etc. 317 Fever parasites , and since May , 1904 , three strains of trypanosomes obtained by me from cases of Sleeping Sickness which died in Liverpool .
I have been able to inoculate rats directly with cerebro-spinal fluid from my eases .
I have , therefore , been able to compare the trypanosomes derived from many different strains .
After a comparison of over 1000 experiments , nearly 600 being on rats , I ha 've had to conclude that all the parasites are identical with T. Eats inoculated with a Sleeping Sickness strain show parasites in their blood and finally succumb to the infection in the same way as do their controls infected with a Gambian Fever strain .
No symptoms of paraplegia have been observed in any of the rats .
Post-mortem.\#151 ; The same enlargement of the spleen and some enlargement of the glands are observable .
Mr. Plimmer reports that morphologically the parasite of Gambian Fever differs from that of Sleeping Sickness in similar animals , the former being larger and more easily stainable than the stumpy , badly staining trypanosomes with large vacuoles of Sleeping Sickness .
I am not in accord with these observations , after numerous observations in parallel series with each strain of trypanosome , same species of animal and same number of passages , and passage through same species of animals .
I can detect no marked difference .
Both stumpy and large forms are met with , vacuoles are most often observed in films made from very serous blood from exudates , and are often present in films which are allowed to dry slowly or are improperly fixed .
Experiments were made by inoculating rats and larger animals with the Gambian Fever trypanosomata , and , after the appearance of the parasite injecting them with Uganda or Congo Sleeping Sickness organisms , and vice versa , using controls in all cases .
From a comparison of the blood of these animals with their controls , both in fresh and stained films it was impossible to determine which parasite was the Gambian one .
Professors Laveran and Mesnil , and the members of our Congo Expedition , from a comparison of the trypanosomes of Gambian Fever and Sleeping Sickness , have also been unable to detect any differences .
Professor Laveran , who has had the opportunity of working with Gambia Fever and Uganda Sleeping Sickness parasites , in a private communication which he allows me to make public , states that he has never observed symptoms of paralysis in his series of rats infected with these strains .
I , therefore , do not feel that Mr. Plimmer is justified in concluding that Gambia Fever and Sleeping Sickness are distinct diseases .
2 c VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; B.

