]\gt ; tin , and also by the speoific volumes of phosphoryl and vanadyl rides:\mdash ; Mol. weight .
Spec. vol. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
although the differences much less than in the cases of the two latk1 groups .
I intend to return to the question in equent c II .
Researches upon the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
By E. THORPE , Ph. D. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Chemistry in yorkshire College of Science , Leeds .
Communicated by Prof A. W. For .
Sec. R.S. Received February 1876 .
III .
On the Volumes of Bromine and Iodine JConochloride , and of Ethene Bromide and Ethene Chloriodide .
The molecular weight of bromine is , as is well known , nearly equal the arithmetic of the molecular weights of ohlorine and iodine henoe the ] weights of bromine and of monochloride ( I nearly identical .
substances closely resemble each other properties .
Both are dark-red liquids about three times heavy than water .
Bromine boils at about , and solidifies at iodine monochloride melts at , and boils at : the interva between the boiling- and meIting-points of the compounds is approxi equal .
It appeared to me of interest to determine ( 1 ) if the specific volume of these liquids exhibit a relation to which is shown by thei molecular eights , and ( 2 ) if the lelation in their specific voluIIlesi in analogous combinations of the two bodies .
I have accord determined the spec.ific gravities , boiling-points , and rates of ex sion of bromine and iodine monoohloride , and of the compound which these substances form by their union with ethene , observntions ill also serYe to determine if bromine and iodine mono chloride preserve , when in tion , the volumes which they posses in tho free state .
I. Bromine .
About autme of commelcinl bromine , by ogitation pure and slrong sulphuric acid , was refully distille and the fraction boiling bout which { mounted to bout t ' 876 .
] Specific Volumes of Liquids .
of the whole , ) collected separately .
A portion of the as with milk of lime and , and the omide tested iodine in the usual miLmlel\ldquo ; .
The remaindel of the brolnine digested dered otassium brolnide for several months , distilled and il.h hosphoric pentoxide to remove the last traces of moisturc .
The puried bromine boiled constantly betlveen and arometer ( corrected and reduced ) millims. Reduced lcted boiling-point .
In rees of -thermometer A ntion of the spccific of the , compared ) the same tomp .
) ecific , compared watel ' at , is Other ers for the specific vity t-point omille : Boiling-point .
Specific avity .
millims. Pierre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
at . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bolas and , '/ 5l The observations of Balard iveu , as ently made with bromine large qualltitis of The tions with the led to foras the tJlsiou of bromine veeu 0 and its oint:\mdash ; - By fho aid of this tho ving T ) beeu the oluu ) of een , the olume being talien as 100,000 .
Qhe spcc.ilic gravity of bromillc { ifs ] is ils pecific \mdash ; Br .
This formula gives numbers agreeing fairly well with those by the expression deduced from my determinations , as the : comparison ( the are given in degrees of the ; ctlrial thermometer ) : \mdash ; Pierre . . . . . . . .
Thorpe . . . . . .
Pierre was undoubtedly one of the iirst to obtain bromine in a pproaching to purity ; but it seems probable , in spite of the care was evidently taken in its preparation , that the sample employed by him. .
in his determination of its rate of expansion was not perfectly free from water .
This is indicated by the order of the divergence between the results of our various observations ; and the supposition would seem to confirmed by the high solidifying-point , to , which he observed .
Baumhauer has shown that the true freezing-point of bromin is .
Pierre sought to dry his bromine by digestion with calcium chloride .
to Stas , calcium bromide ( which , as a desiccating agent is not inferior to the chloride ) is incapable of removing the last traces of water from bromine The specific volume of bromine , calculated from Pierre 's numbers , is II .
Nonochloride .
Prepared by ting an intimate mixture of iodine and potassium chlorate , and distilling the product from powdered potassium chlorate , Cl Cl I Cl. The product as repeatedly distilled in order to break the last tracss of the yellow iodine tricbloride which is always formed in slight qunntity in the preparation .
The liquid uItimately boiled constantly between and .
Corrected and reduced barometer millims. Corrected and reduced boiling-point In order to establish its purity the iodine monochloride was ulyze 1 breaking bulbs containing weighed portions of the liquid under ; Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. [ 3 ] 20 .
I Deutscb . .
Ges .
Ber .
1871 , p. 927 Stas , ] Recherchee sir les Lois des .
Chem. \amp ; c. Aronstein 's German tion , p. 179 .
Specific Volumes of Liquids .
lphurous acid solnbion , precipitating the hydrochloric and hydrio , lic acids is silver nitrate , and digesting the mixed salts with strong nitric acid .
I. Amount of I Cl taken . . . .
gram .
II .
, , , . . . .
I. Silvel salts obtained . . . . . .
II .
, , , , , , . . . . . .
gram .
rom these data , using Stas 's numbers for the atomic weights of chlorine , , and silver , ) , get , by means the equation which weight of mixed and be amount of iodine and chlorine contained therein ) , the results { xpressed in percentages:\mdash ; I. II .
Calculated .
Chlorine . . . . . . . .
Iodine . . . . . . . . . .
I Iodine mouo ( .hloride , as a , bsars a marked bronine .
Although when solidified it meIts at a temperature as high as ( accordiug to my ations ) , it nob unfrequeJltly remains liquid or many weeks after distill , and may be cooled to below without { ngealing .
a freezing-mixture of ice and salt it readily to reddish-brown crystalline mass .
Long-continued shaking at )rdinary temperatures occasionally brings about its solidification .
of iodine monochloride which had been liquid for months , rystallized in long prisms when subjected to the vibration of a , arriage . .
J. B. Hannay has already published a number of cnrious tions on the tion of this compound * .
The speciiic gravity of iodine monochloride at 1 is pared with water at ; at its speciiic is , compaled with water at Other observers have found for the boiling-points bhis oompound:\mdash ; Boiling-point .
Melting-point .
Schutzenberger . . . . . . . .
) Trapp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hannay . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Observations with the dilatometer have led me to the fll Jouln .
Chem. Soc. , p. 302 Mr. T. E. Thorpe on the [ Feb. ) as expressing the expansion of iodine monochloride between and -point :\mdash ; by means of which the following has been calculated:\mdash ; The specific vity at is ; hence the specilic volume of iodine monochloride In the already referred to , .
Hannay has given the results of a number of observations on the speciiic gravity of this compound at rious temperatures .
I am unable to compare his numbers with my ov , as the temperatures to which his specific gravities are referred not ; but the conclusion which Mr. Hannay from his tions , " " that iodine monochloride expands equally for ] inorements of temperature , even its boilin-point , \ldquo ; is obviously erroneous .
III .
Ethene Dibromide , This compound was prepared from well-washed ethene and bromine by of the arrangement described by Hofmann .
The product , after having been dried by phosphorus pentoxide , boiled completely veen 1 and , the greater portion coming over between and .
Barometer corrected and reduced millims. Corrected and reduced boiling-point .
In airthermometer degrees The statements ou recol 'd l.especting the -point of this compound are extremely ; they vary to .
By careful trial I found that ethene dibromide solidiiies at hich is most identical the number given by Regnaulf , The ethene dibromide , Specific Volumes of Liquids .
ped with ater at .
On the supposition that the liquid contracts ularly below its ordinary solidifying-point , its specific gravity at is 21324 , compared with water at .
Other observers have for boiling- and freezing-points and specific of this compound:\mdash ; Boiling- Melting- Specific point .
point .
gravity .
RegnauIt . .
at 760 mm. Pierre . . . .
, , at Haagen . .
, , ? . .
, , 20 Cahours . .
1SO , , ?
Reboul . . . . . . . .
, , 10 resuIts of the observations with the tometer h following formula , which explesses sufficient exactitude the of expansion this liquid from to its boilin -point:\mdash ; 16 foIlowing Table is calculated by means of this xpression ; it 1e true volumes of ethene dibromide at every veen 0:\mdash ; he speciiic gravity dibromide at its boiliug-poiul is its specific volume Pierre , who has lready determined the of liqnid , fonnd hat a single expression of the form vould not express the results of his ions $utlicicnt 304 Mr. T. E. Thorpe on the [ Feb. He also selected the volume at , the lowest mperature at he made an observation , as the unit of volume , on the ground lower tures , particularly in the nsighbourhood of its freeziqpoint , the dilatation of the liquid might be irregular , a supposition whi\amp ; is not confirmed by my observations .
He accordingly calculated two expressions of the form * in which From to the expansion my be expressed by the formuln ; and from to by the formula These formulae results ring but little from those afforded by the expressiou deduced from my observations , as is evident from the following comparison ( the temperatures are given in degrees of mercurial thermometer):\mdash ; Thorpe . .
The specific volume of ethene dibromide , calculated from the numbers given by Pierre , on the assumption that the specific gravity of the liquid at , viz. , as given by him , is comp with water at ( the temperature of comparison is mot stated , but it is probably that which is assumed ) , is IV .
Ethene Chloriodide , This remarkable compound was first prepared by Maxwsll Simpson .
To obtain it , finely powdered suspended in about three times its weight of water , and chlorine is passed into the liquid ( which shouId be kept cool and constantly agitated ) until the iodine has nearly disappeared ; the liquid is decanted after standing , and a stream of ethene , washed by passing through soda solution , is led into it until both the liquid and the oil which gradually separates out decolorized .
The compound , after ashing and drying , is found to boil nearly constantly When first prepared it is colourless ; but on exposure to light it graduaHy becomes red from the ration of a trace of iodine In order , if possible , to avoid the use of water in the preparation of this , I attempted to it the direct of pure .
Rov .
Soc .
p. 876 .
] Specific Volumes of Liquids .
dine monochloride to ethene , matters being so arranged that a large reess of the hydrocarbon was present during the reaction .
The result as altogether different fromwhat I anticipated .
Whenthe two snbstances brought together , nearly the whole of the iodine is set free , and utch liquid is formed , only a very small quantity of the chloriodide produced : varied the conditions of the experiment in several , but with invariably the same result .
I have since found euther has made the same observation * .
It is remarkable that the [ resence of water should so completely modify the reaction .
It must be smembered , however , that in an aqueous solution of iodin chloride bere is always more or less free hydrochloric acid and iodic acid , a porof the iodine chloride being decomposed in accordance with the quation Cl Cl I he extent of the decomposition being probably dependent on the ratio the products of decomposition to the compoumd still undecomposed .
Phis supposition is rendel.ed probable by the observations of Hannay , , on filtering the sohltion from the iodiJle , a further precipitation 'radually occurs ; and that on mixing an aqueous solution of iodine ihloride with carbon bisulphide , which dissolves the iodine as it separates , the whole of the compound is gradually decomposed , ]lothin but odic and hydrochloric acids being left in the water .
Dr. lfaxwell Simpson kindly sent me a sample of ethelle chloriodide prepared by the process above described , with the direction ] in order to render it quite pure it was merely necessary to wash it 11th dilute potash and dry it .
After being dried over phosphorus pentoxide it boiled almost completely between and .
Barometer millims. ; ; corrected reduced boiling-point Two observations of specific gravity gave , ( 1 ) at and ( 2 ) at pared with water at .
Reduced to , the specific gravity becomes ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
Mean compared with water Ethene chloriodide solidifies to a white crystalline mass in a mixture of snow and hydrochloric acid .
Other observers have Boiling-point .
Barometermillims .
gravitySpecific . .
at Simpson . . . . . .
Maumene . . . .
146 753 , , 20 Observations with the tometer have led to the formula which with sufficient ccuracy the expansion of ethene chlorJahresbericht \amp ; c. vol. 306 Mr. T. E. Thorpe on the iodide between and its boiling-point .
The following Table gives 1 true volume of this liquid for every between these The speoific gravity of ethene chloriodide at its boiling-point is and its specific It is evident from these observations th the speciiic volumes of bromine iodine chloride are not equal , neither are the specific volumes of ethene bromide and ethene chloriodide ; the bodies wibh the greater molecular weights have the greater specific volumes .
Molecular weight .
Specific volume .
omine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iodine chloride . . . . . . . . . .
Ethene bromide . . . . . . . . . .
Ethene The number obtained for iodine monochloride difTers cowiderably from the volume calcuhted by means of Kopp 's values , .
The speciiic volume of bromine is also less than number , .
The value ssiglled to chlorine is unquestionably far more ccurate than that given to iodine , since the value of the lat\amp ; r element was calculated from only two or three compounds , the fol.mel .
deduced from a comparatively number of products .
That the yalue for Iine needs reyisiou seems to Specific Volumes of Liquids .
onfirmed by Billet 's observations of the specific gravities of liqud at various tempelatlres .
His results are Tempernture . .
Specific I these numbers be plotted down and the to the ling-point of iodine , v-e find that the of iodine this perature is ; hence the specific volume of iodine ( I ) If now this be added to that of chlorine , as given by Kopp , we a result identical with the volume of iodine monochloride\mdash ; we subtract the specific volumes of , as calculated by the aid Kop alues ( , from the speciiic volumes ethene bromide ethene iodide , 1 } obtain numbers are larly to the specific } olumes iodine chloride rehis respondence bveen the sets of values seems to raljt the )nclusion that bromine possess the olume in compound hich they hnve hell the free state .
In order to rtain how this conclusion is , I pnrpose to etermine the specific lmes of of hydrocaxbons I obtain of sufficient lrity , and nlso of the specific olumcs of their tioJls ronIine .
Buff httS { tiollS upon { ; but a lecently published } tion by lavitzky has rendered it that the employed by Buff a mixture of isopropylethene and trimethylethene According to the olefine boiliug is trimethylethenc , C - md not which boils : both are ) ferment \amp ; c. vol. viii . .
der hclu . .
vol. 3-tti , Mr. A. Tribe on Electrolysis .
Since bromine and iodine chloride appear to have the same volume iq union with ethene that they have when uncombined , it is not unreason .
able to suppose that the same may be true of ethene itself , .
that at its boiling-point it would possess the same volume which it has in bromids and chloriodide at their respective boiling-points .
On this u- sumption the specific gravity of liquid ethene would be\mdash ; Calculated from . .
, III .
Experimental Contributions to the Theory of Electrolysis By ALFRED Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Communicated by J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the loyal Institution .
Received January 13 , In July 1800 Nicholson and Carlisle first effected the decomposition of water the pile of ; and they were not a little surprised when the constituent gases of the appeared separately at some considerable distance from each other* , but they offered no opimon as to the cause of so a phenomenon .
A little later Cruickshank also decomposed water by the pile , and , for the first time , many metallic salts .
He , like icholson and Carlisle , was much struck by the appearance of the compounds round poles separated some distance , and attempted to explain the phenomenon by supposing that the principle of galvanism could exist in an and condition\mdash ; that in entering water at the negative end , it combined oxygen , liberating hydrogen , and that on arriving at the positive end the oxygen either escaped or combined with the wire This hypothesis , which involves the idea of an imponderable capable of combining with ponderables , various modifications by Fourcroy and Vauquelin and Thenard , and by Dr. Bostock and others .
But the next step ot importance to the theory of electrolysis was the idea of the passage into or through the liquid of one or both constituents of the electrolyte , which was first roughly foreshadowed nonymous correspondent of Nicholson 's Journal ( vol. .
p. 472 ) , and which was thus more explicitly expressed in 1807 by Sir H. Davy:\mdash ; ' ' The oxygen of a portion of water is attracted by the positive surface at the sams time that the other constituent part , the hydrogen , is repelled by it , and the opposite process takes place at the surface ; and in the Nicholson 's Journal , Old Series , .
p. .
iii .
p. 9 .

