November 24 , 1853 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
The Earl of Harrowby was elected .
Captain Inglefield , R.N. , was admitted into the Society .
The following gentlemen were elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society:-Capt .
FitzRoy , Mr. Grove , Mr. Phillips , The Rev. Baden Powell , Mr. Wheatstone .
The following extract of a letter from Lieut. Gilliss , U.S.N. to Colonel Sabine , R.A. , was read : Washington , 12 Sept. 1853 .
Lieut. Mackai returned to the United States in April , having made his magnetical observations successfully at all the elevations and at distances of 100 miles , entirely across the Pampas .
Soon after leaving Mendoza he was thrown from his horse , breaking his barometer and so injuring his chronometer , that he has neither the longitudes of his magnetical stations nor barometric profile of the country .
Being desirous to make his work complete , he volunteered to retrace his ground , and left the United States for the purpose more than a month ago , taking with him the declinometer and dip-circle , two Bunten 's barometers , an apparatus for determining altitudes from the boilingpoint , and some smaller instruments .
Conveyance of the unifilar would have required another mule .
Cursory inspection of the observations already made afforded evi .
dence of their reliability , and as repetition would have involved many hours ' detention at each station , it was not considered essential to cumber him .
Should the Argentine provinces have become sufficiently quiet , he will first cross the Andes at the Planchan Pass , lat. 350 20t , next at the Partillo ( the most elevated ) Pass , lat. 33ยง 40 ' , and finally at the Cumbre and Uspalata Pass , in lat. 32ยง 50 ' , where observations have already been made .
As he will remain at Santiago only a short time , I look for him home during February next .
His and all the magnetical observations will then be discussed , and the volume be ready for press by the close of 1854 .
Those on meteorology are very far advanced .
The astronomical observations will fill three volumes , one of which ( Mars and Venus ) will be ready about the same time as the magnetical and meterological volume ; the zones not until two years later .
My report , embracing those of Lieut. Mackai and the naturalists , with the maps , plans , and drawings , will probably be the first published ; and should Congress extend its usual liberality to my propositions , all the volumes will be presented to the world in a creditable manner .

