122 A Gas Calorimeter .
By C. V. Boys , F.R.S. ( Received December 7 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1905 .
) In the report of the gas section of the Electrical and Gas Exhibition held at the Crystal Palace in 1884 , there is an illustrated account of a gas calorimeter devised by Mr. F. W. Hartley for the purpose of testing the calorific value of the gas used in the cooking and heating apparatus shown in the exhibition .
This report , which is rather inaccessible , may be seen in the library of the Patent Office in Southampton Buildings , Chancery Lane , and its catalogue number is 15,262 .
In this instrument the gas to be examined is passed through a delicate meter and governor , after which it is burned in a Bunsen burner in the instrument .
The heat is taken from the products of combustion and the unchanged air by means of a stream of water , the rate of flow and rise of temperature of which are determined .
From these observations the calorific value of the gas can be deduced .
Mr. Hartley considered the very small corrections due to the effluent gas being slightly different in temperature from the surrounding air , also corrections due to adventitious loss or gain of heat , and to the change in the specific heat of water with temperature .
The paper unfortunately occupies only five pages , and the construction of the details of the instrument can only be inferred from the figure .
The Hartley type of apparatus has in the last 14 years become wrell known owing to the sale of the excellent instrument designed by Junkers .
I have had occasion to use this instrument a good deal , and while I in no way criticise it on the ground of want of accuracy , I have found it unwieldy and inconvenient in use .
If the water and gas supply and the water escape as provided suit the surroundings , well and good , if not , pipes must be taken round to adapt the surroundings to the instrument .
The thermometers for the inlet and outlet water are at very different levels and the instrument is inordinately high , so that if placed on a table or by the side of an ordinary sink the observer has to keep climbing up and down in order to read the two thermometers and make notes .
The thermometers and the reading-glasses provided are admirable ; in this respect improvement appears impossible , but the readings easily made to 1/ 100 ' C. are vitiated by the constant spasmodic jumps of the indication of the outlet thermometer in consequence of warmer and cooler streaks in the issuing water .
These irregularities may amount to 1/ 10 ' more or less , and A Gas Calorimeter .
though they are not enough to introduce error of consequence , they give the opportunity to different observers to read on the whole high or low , and they may encourage the idea that accuracy in reading the thermometer is not of much consequence .
The water content of the instrument is 1700 c.c. , and so , with a usual rate of flow , from two to three minutes are required to change the water .
This large content and the consequent time of change must be taken into account if the temperature of the inlet water is undergoing a small but steady variation at a rate sufficient to be observed in this time .
Simultaneous measures of inlet and outlet temperature would not give the true rise of temperature ; to approximate to this the inlet readings should be taken two or three minutes before the corresponding outlet readings , the interval depending on the rate of flow .
A more serious objection to a large water capacity is the time that the observer must wait before the final temperature is reached , the last creeping up being very slow .
I have also experimented with two other makes of gas calorimeter , but I have found that they are little more than copies of the Junkers instrument .
The spasmodic variations of the outlet readings are quite as great ; the water content in one of them is nearly 6 litres , and nothing has been done in either to reduce the inconvenient height or to increase the facility with which they may be adapted to their surroundings .
Professor Threlfall has designed a calorimeter with the view specially to keeping a continuous record of the variation of the calorific power of gas .
I have not seen this instrument or any complete account of it , but Professor Threlfall has informed me that he has kept the water content as low as he could .
I have had to examine existing calorimeters in consequence of a change in the law with regard to the testing of gas in London .
From January 1 next the calorific value is to be taken , and it is the duty of the gas referees to prescribe the mode of testing .
From a purely official point of view the three calorimeters examined have the disadvantage that they are soldered up , so that it is impossible to tell what is inside them or to see if they are made according to instructions .
The calorimeter shown in section in fig. 1 will , I believe , be found to be free from the disadvantages enumerated , and it has the peculiarity that it can be taken entirely to pieces in a few minutes so that all parts may be examined .
A circular base A carries the gas pipe and tap terminating in a pair of No. 3 union-jet burners B. The top surface is protected from radiation by a disc of bright metal which is held down by the screws which fix the three centering blocks C. In the base a governor may be inserted or an Mr. C. Y. Boys .
[ Dec. 7 , Fig. 1 .
1905 .
j A Gas Calorimeter .
ordinary balance governor may be used instead to counteract the variation in pressure resulting from the working of the meter .
On the three centering blocks C rests a vessel D of sheet brass with a central chimney of thick sheet copper E. On one side , 1 inch from the bottom , a side tube F is fastened so that condensation water may drip from this into a measure placed to receive it .
Of course , the vessel D may be turned round so that the drip tube lies in any direction with respect to the gas inlet .
Attached to the lid G are the essential parts of the calorimeter .
Beginning at the centre , where the outflow is situated , there is a brass box which acts as a temperature equalising chamber for the outlet water .
Two dished plates of thin brass K K are held in place by three scrolls of thin brass L L L. These are simply strips bent round like unwound clock springs , and no attempt should be made to prevent all leakage from one spire to the next , as a little will be advantageous in encouraging temperature equalisation .
For the same reason a little leakage from each spire to the one above may- be allowed .
The lower or pendant portion of this box is kept cool by circulating water , the channel for which may be made in the solid metal as shown on the right side or by sweating on a tube as shown on the left .
Connected to the water channel at the lowest point by a union are six turns of copper pipe such as is used in a motor-car radiator .
I have employed a helix of copper wire wound round the tube and all sweated together , the well-known invention of Mr. T. Clarkson of Chelmsford , who kindly sent me the wire for the purpose .
A piece of such tube is shown in fig. 2 .
I have no doubt , however , that squares of sheet copper , as shown in fig. 3 , threaded on Mr. C. V. Boys .
[ Dec. 7 , to the pipe and all sweated together or a series of radially disposed copper strips cut so as to allow the pipe to be wound upon them , and then be bent over outside so as to make good sweating contact with it would answer as well .
A second helix of similar pipe surrounding the first is fastened to it at the lower end by a union .
This terminates at the other end in a block to which the inlet water box and thermometer holder are secured by a union as shown at O. A similar outlet water box P and thermometer holder are similarly secured above the equalising chamber H. The lowest turns of the two coils M and N are immersed in the water , which in the first instance is put into the vessel B. A further alternative for the inner but not the outer coil , which would , no doubt , answer well , could be made by winding a sheet of copper wire gauze , six wires to the inch , into a cylindrical form , winding the pipe upon the gauze and a second sheet of gauze upon the pipe and then sweating all together .
Between the outer and the inner coils M N is placed a brattice Q made of thin sheet brass , but containing cork dust to act as a heat insulator .
The upper annular space in the brattice is closed by a wooden ring and that end is immersed in melted rosin and beeswax cement to protect it from any moisture which might condense upon it .
The brattice is carried by an internal flange which rests upon the lower edge of the casting H. A cylindrical wall of thin sheet brass a very little smaller than the vessel D is secured to the lid , so that when the instrument is lifted out of the vessel and placed upon the table the coils are protected from injury .
The narrow air space between this and the vessel D also serves to prevent interchange of heat between the calorimeter and the air of the room .
It will be noticed that the two thermometers for reading the water temperatures , and a third which may be added for reading the temperature of the outlet air , are all near together and at the same level , and that the lid may be turned round into any position relatively to the gas inlet and condensed water drip that may be convenient for observation , and also that the inlet and outlet water boxes may themselves be turned so that their branch tubes point in any direction .
The instrument is convenient also in its small height , the thermometers being comfortably read when the instrument is standing on an ordinary table .
For regular testing purposes there is no need to use different rates of flow of water at different times .
I therefore fasten an overflow water funnel ( fig. 4 ) on the wall at a convenient height over the sink and connect it by indiarubber tubes with a supply tap from the main and with the inlet 0 of the instrument .
A uniform rate of , flow is most easily attained by the use 1905 .
] A Gas Calorimeter .
of a diaphragm in the supply pipe , which has been reamed out to allow the desired flow to pass through the instrument with the given head .
There will be no occasion afterwards to adjust this .
The flow of air to the burner is determined by the degree to which the passage is constricted at the inlet and outlet .
I have found that if the three centering blocks are made of material 3/ 16 inch thick , and the gas escapes by five holes 5/ 8 inch in diameter made in the outer portion of the lid , the flames burn well , do not smoke , and an unnecessary excess of air is prevented from passing through the instrument .
A sixth hole may be provided for Fig. 4 .
a thermometer , so placed as to measure the temperature of the outlet gases .
Mr. Butterfield has examined the escaping gases and finds that when the gas is burning at the rate of 5 cubic feet per hour they contain 7 per cent , of oxygen and 8 per cent , of carbonic acid , from which he infers that the proportion of air to gas is about 8\#163 ; to 1 .
It follows from this that the correction for rise or fall of temperature of the air passing through the instrument is as near as possible one-third of a calorie to the cubic foot of gas for each degree Centigrade of change .
An examination of the effluent Mr. C. V. Boys .
[ Dec. 7 , gas when only four holes were left open showed that the oxygen was reduced to 5'6 per cent. , but that even so no trace of combustible gas could be detected .
A feature peculiar to this calorimeter is the absence of water cooling from all but the lower end of the chimney ; being made of copper 1/ 16 inch thick , and with its base in contact with water it is prevented from becoming hot enough to burn , while at the same time it is so hot that condensation does not occur upon its inner surface , and so the collection of the condensation water is simplified .
Another advantage of the hot chimney is its extra aero-motive power , so that the instrument can safely be made of far less than the usual height .
The heat passing by condensation down the chimney into the water pool at the bottom is carried away by the water in the two immersed turns of pipe .
Heat radiated downwards is in part reflected back by the bright metal shield over the base , but in so far as the reflection is imperfect and the thin metal is warmed it gives up most of its heat to the incoming air which sweeps over it and so carries it back into the instrument .
It may be well to state that the object of measuring the condensation water is to find how much of the total heat is due to condensation of steam and cooling of the water down to the temperature of the drip .
If this is subtracted the result will give the heating value of the gas for operations in which the steam is not condensed , and this is generally known as the net as distinct from the gross calorific value .
In order to prevent corrosion of the metal surfaces by the continued soaking action of very dilute sulphuric acid and dissolved oxygen , the whole of the coil system can be lifted up out of the vessel D when the measurements have been made and placed in a jar containing a very dilute solution of carbonate of soda .
This source of destruction is likely to become more damaging in the near future than it has been in the past in consequence of the great increase in the amount of sulphur which , without lime purification , will be left in the gas .
Any deposit of lime that may be formed in the pipe system and equalising box can be removed by passing very dilute hydrochloric acid through and washing out with water .
By these means it is hoped that the calorimeter will be available for daily use and be practically indestructible .
When I first considered how best the irregular outlet temperature of existing calorimeters could be made more uniform , I concluded that an inversion of the usual arrangement was essential , that , in fact , the gases should have plenty of space to pass gently through the instruments and that the water should be taken through every channel strictly in series , all alternative parallel flow being prejudicial .
The small pipe suitable for such A Gas Calorimeter .
1905 .
] construction , provided it is fortified withi heat collecting ribs or wires , can still carry abundant water and absorb the whole of the heat and it has very small water capacity .
At any rate such a construction , with the additional equalising box , shows at times irregular variations of only 0'01 ' or 0*02 ' even with the total rise of 24 ' C. and without any device for in part shielding the thermometer bulb from direct contact with the stream of water .
The water content of the coil and equalising box is 300 c.c. , and of the space in the vessel D up to the overflow 400 c.c. It will be seen from fig. 5 , in which are plotted observations of the io Minn tea .
Fig. 5 .
outlet temperature made every quarter minute from the time of lighting the gas , that five minutes after lighting up 21 ' out of the 22 ' rise have been attained , that in 10 minutes a further rise of | ' has occurred , and in a quarter of an hour there i\amp ; only 1/ 10 ' remaining .
A reading taken 55 minutes after starting showed the outlet water to be at 32'85 ' .
The rise of 0T5 ' in the last 35 minutes is no more than that which corresponds to the usual rise of calorific value of the gas in Victoria Street 130 Sir W. Huggins and Lady Huggins .
Spectrum [ Dec. 12 , m* taken at intervals during the day .
The small waves in the portion of the curve drawn to 10 times the scale are the result of friction in the meter , in consequence of which the governor was in constant motion .
I must express my indebtedness to Messrs. Griffin and Sons , of Sardinia Street , who made a trial instrument for me when I was away in South Africa , and therefore out of reach .
They have carried out my instructions accurately , and to my entire satisfaction .
On the Spectrum of the Spontaneous Luminous Radiation of Radium .
Part IY.\#151 ; Extension of the Glow .
By Sir William Huggins , K.C.B. , O.M. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. ; and Lady Huggins , Hon. Mem. R.A.S. ( Received December 12 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) In our second paper* we suggest " whether the / 3-rays , which are analogous to the cathode corpuscles , may not be mainly operative in exciting the radium glow .
On this surmise it would be reasonable to expect some little extension of the glow outside the limit of the solid radium itself .
We are unable to detect any halo of luminosity outside the limit of the solid radium bromide ; the glow appears to end with sudden abruptness at the boundary surface of the radium .
" We omitted to state that this conclusion was arrived at by eye observations .
The radium was observed in the dark with a lens , and with a low-power microscope .
The earlier photographs of the spectrum of the glow were taken , for the purpose of comparison spectra , with the height of the slit reduced by shutters so as to be within the width of the exposed radium bromide , and , therefore , these photographs would not show whether the bright bands of nitrogen extend into the air beyond the radium .
Subsequently photographs were taken with the whole height of the slit , and on these we find that all the bands of nitrogen do extend to some little distance outside the radium salt .
Our attention at the time being directed to other phenomena of the glow , we did not examine the photographs to see if the nitrogen bands extended beyond the radium .
In a paper , dated August 22 , 1905 , F. Himstedt and G. Meyerf state that * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 410 ( 1903 ) .
t F. Himstedt and G. Meyer , 'Ber .
d. Not .
Gesells .
Freiburg , ' vol. 16 , pp. 13\#151 ; 17 .

