I. " Observations made to ascertain the Specific Gravity of Sea-water in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres .
" By Rear-Admiral PHILIP P. KING , R.N. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received October 15 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The specimens of sea-water experimented upon were collected during the voyage of Her Majesty 's Ship 'Adventure , ' commencing at Rio de Janeiro , and from thence in succession to St. Catharine 's , the River Plate , round the Falkland Islands to Cape Horn , and thence to Valparaiso ; and during the ship 's return from Valparaiso , through the Strait of Magalhaens to the River Plate and Rio de Janeiro .
The series was then compieted by the voyage to England .
From the author 's observations it may be inferred that the density of the water of the Ocean is , very nearly , identical in all parts of the Atlantic between 40 ?
North and 40 ?
South latitude , the exceptions being due to local causes .
Dry winds , by increasing the effect of evaporation , would naturally increase the density of the surface water , whilst on the other hand , winds charged with vapour would have but little effect ; and a heavy fall of rain , particularly in equatorial parts of the Ocean , where the sea is so little disturbed , would very sensibly diminish it .
It is also very sensibly less in the vicinity of the coast , particularly when the latter is of a shoal character , as is the case between the River Plate and the Strait of Magalhaens , where the whole extent is fronted by a bank having from 30 to 50 fathoms of water .
The mean specific gravity of the water of the South Pacific , contained between the parallels of 10 ?
and 40 ?
, is 1026 48 , and between 40 ?
and 60 ?
it is 1026-13 .
The results obtained by the author are then compared with the following , viz. Observations made on board the ' Hamlet ' in 1849 , during a voyage from Sydney to England .
Observations made on board the 'Thomas Arbuthnot ' in 1849 and 1850 , during a voyage from England to Sydney .
Specific gravities of specimens of water collected by Captain J. Elphinstone Erskine , R.N. , of Her Majesty 's Ship 'Havannah , ' the Senior Officer on the Australian Station , during a visit to New Caledonia , the Loyalty Islands , and to those at the south-eastern end of the Solomon Islands .
Specific gravities of specimens of water collected by the late Captain Sir James Everard Home , Bart. , R.N. , C.B. , of Her Majesty 's Ship 'Calliope , ' the successor of Captain Erskine in the command of the Station , who visited the Friendly and the Fidjee Islands , Specific gravities of specimens of water collected by Mr. Simpson , who commanded a trading vessel between China and Sydney , from the Indian Ocean between the Strait of Sunda and the Latitude of 36 ?
South .

