26 The Extension of Cracks in an Isotropic Material .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received November 9 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) The formation and extension of cracks in solids is a matter of considerable practical importance , but , as far as I am aware , the strains in the material at the extremity of a spreading crack have not been considered in detail either by engineers or physicists .
It is a matter of common observation that in some materials a crack will spread with great facility whilst in others the reverse is the case .
Glass and indiarubber may be mentioned as extreme cases .
Between these two , endless gradations of brittleness and toughness can be found .
That the facility with which a crack spreads does not depend only on the breaking strain of the material or on the work required to cause rupture is apparent from the fact that ( a ) although the tension modulus of ruptuie for glass is comparable with ( though less than ) the same modulus for cast iron and brass , the facility with which a crack can be started and spread in it is immensely greater ; and ( b ) though the modulus of rupture for indiarubber is comparatively small it requires more work to break a piece of this substance by tension than to break in the same way a piece of glass of equal area : the reason of course being the very small extension which can be given to glass without rupture .
Any specified strain in a solid can be represented as a combination of shear and volume extension or compression , and both for volume extension and shear there are limits which if exceeded either cause rupture or leave the material in an altered condition when the stress is removed .
The ordinary tests which are applied to structural materials involve in general both volume alteration and shear , but the limits for the two forms of strain are distinct and perhaps independent of one another .
In liquids the coefficient of distortion is evanescent and there is no limit as regards the magnitude of the shear , but k the volume coefficient is finite and comparable with that for solids , and there are limiting values for the volume expansion of liquids which if exceeded cause discontinuity .
In many liquids , e.g.f water and mercury , it is known that the breaking strain for volume extension is large although there are experimental difficulties The Extension of Cracks an Isotropic Material .
in measuring the exact amount .
There is , however , no known limit of rupture for the volume compression of either solids or liquids.* * .
It would be a matter of interest and importance to determine for solids whether , and how far , the existence of one form of strain influenced the limits of the other : whether , for instance , a body subjected to volume extension would require more or less shear to rupture it than when the volume was normal .
This point has not , as far as I know , been made the subject of experiment , but for the purpose of this note I shall assume that if a strain which .exceeds either of the limits is applied to a solid , rupture will be due to that property of the substance for which the limit is least , and that if the distortion limit is the smaller of the two , breakage will occur at right angles to the lines of greatest extension , whereas if the volume limit is the least the direction of the break will be indeterminate .
Consider a solid partly divided by a crack in a certain plane and subject to equal and opposite forces symmetrically applied at points on either side of and equidistant from the plane .
Since the plane of the crack is a plane of symmetry , the solid on one side of this plane may be supposed to be absent and its place to be taken by the tractions required to keep the strain unaltered .
The problem then becomes one regarding the strain produced by a given distribution of stress over a finite area of the plane surface of an otherwise infinite solid .
The further development of the crack depends only on the action which takes place in the immediate vicinity of its end for the time being .
It would be superfluous therefore to refer to the solutions of the above problem which have been given by Boussinesq and others , for these solutions do not apply to points extremely close to the margin of the area of the applied stress , and for the present purpose it is only with regard to such points that information is required .
It may be seen , however , that lines of strain near the margin must be of the type sketched in the accompanying diagram , and that the strain and stress would be infinite at the end of the crack if there were no elastic limits .
Hence one may conclude that even the smallest force when applied to a cracked solid will cause some permanent set at the end of the crack if the material can yield in this * This may give an explanation of the difference between malleability and ductility .
Under the hammer the strain is a shear combined with volume compression , while in * .
drawing " the material undergoes shear combined with volume dilatation .
In general , a body which is ductile will also be malleable , but the converse need not hold .
28 The Extension of Cracks in an Isotropic Material .
way , * or , if rupture ensues when the elastic limit is exceeded , that the crack will he extended .
In most homogeneous solids the area over which the stresses exceed the mean stress at some moderate distance-from the end of the Crack will be of the same order as the square of the width of the crack , an area so small that it is not unlikely that the elastic and other limits , of the material within it may be altered by the same cause which produces surface-tension in liquids .
The proportion of shear to volume extension is dependent on the value of Poisson's-ratio for the substance , and increases indefinitely as this ratio approaches one-half , but the limits to which the volume can be altered , or the substance distorted , without rupture do not necessarily involve a at all .
If the conditions of strain at the end of the crack are such that material gives way from over-distortion , the fracture will occur in the plane of theexistmg crack , which will therefore spread continuously : while if the over- dilatation is the origin , the breakage may take place in any direction. .
If at any place the plane of the new fracture cuts the plane of the crack there will be a rearrangement of stresses , and a relatively considerable length of material will have to be strained before further rupture is possible , and thus the cross fractures will act as a bar to the further extension of the crack .
in rr teref0re , that " materials such as glass or other substances to theLwt T\gt ; m , nearly ''nstant Actions that rupture is due wanderinu ^ that Where a crack extends with difficulty in IZZtT ' 6 dUatati0D Umit is the \#153 ; which has been " iv ?
eri ; ;Pld " 'n 'f the \#187 ; which fracture takes place nra ILTs inU !
dbr aP~ WWch 'ften 8hows itself on broke When the limits for both ^ time , a very small change in a\gt ; nd k are reached at nearly the same either , such as might occur in a body to act is evidence that WWn ^ forC8 which caused ifc eeas Rotation of the Electric Arc in a Radial Magnetic Field .
29 nearly but not quite homogeneous , would alter altogether the appearance of a fracture .
In this note only isotropic materials are considered , but it seems probable that the same principles might be used to explain the cleavage of crystals .
The Rotation of the Electric Arc in a Radial Magnetic .
By J. Nicol , B.A. , B.Sc. , Wheatstone Laboratory , King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. H. A. Wilson , F.R.S. Received October 1 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) The following paper contains an account of a series of measurements of the velocity of motion of an electric arc in a magnetic field at right angles to its length .
The experiments are similar to those made by Prof. Wilson and Mr. G. H. Martyn* with the electric discharge in a vacuum tube and were suggested by Prof. Wilson .
The apparatus consisted of a vertical iron rod ( fig. 1 , A ) magnetised by two solenoids B at its ends , wound in opposite directions , so as to give a pole in the middle of the bar .
With this arrangement the field round the middle of the bar is uniform and radial .
The distance between the two solenoids was fixed by a quartz tube C , which also served to protect the iron rod from the heat of the arc .
The arc passed between two copper tubes D , 2 cm .
in diameter , held coaxial with the iron rod by a clamp made of wood and brass .
The copper tubes were clamped in holes cut in two pieces of thick ( 5 mm. ) sheet brass E , fixed to the top and bottom of a block of hard wood F. The required arc length was obtained by clamping the electrodes while they were pressed firmly against a gauge of sheet brass held between them .
The base of the iron rod and the stand carrying the arc electrodes each rested on three screws in a hole slot and plane fixed to the table by paraffin wax .
Thus the whole apparatus could be quickly taken down and set up again in the same position .
This was necessary to enable the electrodes to be renewed after each experiment .
The arc was in all cases started with the magnetic field already in action , by momentarily bringing a piece of arc-lighting carbon in contact with the two electrodes .
* 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 79 , 1907 .

