1885.1 Chemical Composition of Cartilage in .
75 January 15,1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; X. " On the Chemical Composition of the Cartilage occurring in certain Invertebrate Animals .
" By W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , Sharpey Physiological Scholar , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( from the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London ) .
Received December 24 , 1884 .
At Professor Lankester 's suggestion I have submitted to chemical analysis the cartilages occurring in Sepia and in Limulus .
The basis of the cartilage is a chondrin-like body which gives the reactions of mucin and gelatin ; indeed chondrin , as it occurs in the ordinary hyaline cartilage of vertebrates , is now regarded by many as a mechanical mixture of these two bodies .
But in the cartilages of the two invertebrates in question the gelatinous element is exceedingly small , and no gelatinisation occurs on the cooling of the hot watery extract .
In addition to this , however , the cartilage of both these animals differs from that of vertebrates in containing a certain small percentage Of chitin .
In the case of Limulus 1*01 per cent. , and of Sepia 1*22 per cent , of chitin in the dry state is present .
I have also demonstrated that chitin exists in the liver of the king crab , though whether in the connective tissue or in the liver cells themselves I cannot say .
The connective tissue element is very abundant in the liver of this animal , and it seems probable , looking at the part that chitin plays as a supporting structure in these animals , that it really forms in this instance a partial basis for the connective tissue .
The way in which chitin was demonstrated to exist was the same in all three cases , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
After digesting with potash , a residue insoluble in boiling alkalies remains behind .
76 Lord Rayleigh .
Electromagnetic Rotation [ Jan. 15 , 2 .
This residue , which when washed and dried is obtainable in a white amorphous condition , is insoluble in weak acids ; but in concentrated mineral acids it is soluble in the cold .
3 .
On boiling the solution in sulphuric acid , a body which has the power of reducing cupric salts is formed .
4 .
On boiling the solution in hydrochloric acid it turns brown , and on evaporating this solution to dryness a body crystallises out which has all the properties of hydrochlorate of glycosamine .
I prepared some of this body from the chitin contained in the exoskeleton of cockroaches , and also obtained from .
Professor Lan-kester some crystals of the same body which Professor Gamgee had kindly sent him .
I was thus enabled to compare the crystalline body I had obtained from the invertebrate cartilage with that of the pure hydrochlorate of glycosamine , and they were found to agree in the following points :\#151 ; - a. Crystalline form : rhombic prisms of the monoclinic system ; measurement of the angles gave the same result in all cases .
b. Action of polarised light : nil .
c. Solubilities : easily soluble in water , soluble with difficulty in alcohol .
These results are especially interesting as showing that chitin is not a body which is exclusively epiblastic in origin , but in these three instances at least occurs in mesoblastic structures .
II .
" On the Constant of Electromagnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received December 29 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) A complete account is here given of the experiments briefly referred to in the Preliminary Note , * and of others on the same plan of more recent date .
As regards the method , it may be sufficient to add to what was there said , that the electric currents were estimated by comparing the difference of potential generated by the current in traversing a known resistance with that of a standard Clark cell , the value of the cell being known by converse operations , in which the current was measured by a special electromagnetic apparatus.f Allowance * " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. 37 , p. 146 , June , 1884 .
+ " On the Electrochemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. 37 , p. 142 , June , 1884 .

