Philosoph. Transact. No. 366 .
FIG. I FIG. II .
IHP D Q EGM C N B F A FIG. III .
A FIG. V. XWIH T SF VRCK FIG. IV .
DC AZ BY FIG. VI .
NMLA FIG. VII .
P O L K G E D B O II .
Observations upon the Bones and the Periosteum , in a Letter to the Royal Society , from Mr. Leeuwenhoek , F. R. S. Delft , Nov. 20 .
1720 .
SOME Years ago , I communicated to the Royal Society , my Observations upon the Bones ; what those Observations were .
I do not now remember , nor have I endeavoured to recollect them , lest I might be influenced by them in my later Enquiries , which I here present you with .
In my last Letter I acquainted you , that I had several times endeavoured to discover , after what manner the Periosteum was united to those Vessels , that compose the Bone , but that I had not been able to observe it to my satisfaction .
Since which time I have frequently employed myself in making Observations upon the Bones , and have found that the superficial part of them consisted of an inconceivable number of small Vessels , and some few of a larger size , which last , when they came to the surface of the Bone , appeared to me to be cloathed with either a Mcmbrane , or a bony Substance , that was perfectly transparent .
I once happened to discover in a small portion of a Shinbone , four or five Vessels of such a size , that a single filament of Silk might have been drawn thro ' their Aperture .
One of these appeared to me to consist of two openings , each of which seemed to be proO vided vided with a Valve , which was disposed in such a manner , as to let out what was contained in the Vessel , but to suffer nothing to go in .
In all my Observations upon the surface of the Bones , I never , but this one time , discovered so many of these Vessels in so small a compass .
As for that Matter , which issues out from the Bone , and is carried into the Periosteum , I have discovered the source of it to be the spongy or cellular Substance on the inside of the Bone , which is the repository for the Marrow .
This spongy Substance consists of long Particles closely united and linked together , which Particles are composed of an infinite number of small Vessels , some running lengthwise , and others taking their course towards the sides of the bony Particles .
These bony Particles , notwithstanding their great number of Apertures , are yet exceeding hard , and lie some of them parallel , and others perpendicular to the length of the Bone .
Those Particles , that lie perpendicular to the length of the Bone , have Vessels proceeding from their ends ; and from their sides , where they do not lie close together , proceed other Vessels , that compose the Cortex , or superficial part of the Bone .
And those bony Particles that lie parallel to the length of the Bone , send out Vessels from their sides , that issue out thro ' the side of the Bone : It is impossible for those , who have not seen this with their own Eyes , to conceive the prodigious number of small Vessels , of which the cortical part of the Bone consists ; which in some places lies no theker upon the spongy part of the Bone , than a thick Hair of a Man 's Head , tho ' in other places it has three or four times that thickness .
To the Cortex of the Bone , the Periosteum is united , not only on the outside , but even by entring in many places into the very substance of the Bone , and is joined to it by the Vessels , which issue out from the Bone , in such a manner , that sometimes one cannot determine which is the Bone , and which belongs to the Membrane investing it , they both appearing in the Microscope to consist alike of exceeding small Vessels .
To make this be the better understood , I have given in Fig. 1 .
a representation of a small part of the Bone , with the Periosteum adhering to it , in which ABCDEF represents the bony part , whether taken from an Ox , or Sheep , I do not now remember .
The Periosteum is marked with the Letters BGHI E , the thickness of which is designed by B G , or I E , tho ' in other places of the Bone , and even at no greater distance than two or three Hairs breadth , it is twice or thrice as thick .
We see here , that all the small Vessels in the Periosteum are represented by so many Dots or Points ; but in other places , where I had several times seen the Membrane of twice this thickness , the upper half of it has appeared to be of a different make from the under part , for as much as in the upper part I could discover not only those Vessels , that had been cut transversly , and which consequently were represented by so many Points , but likewise a great number of other Vessels running lengthwise along the Membrane , as is represented in Fig. 2 .
by LOPQN M. I am fully persuaded , that the part represented by BGHI E , Fig. 1 .
is not entirely membranous , but that some part of it is really bony .
If we cur thro ' the Periosteum so deep as to divide the part of the Bone marked with the Letters ABCDE F , in the same Figure , we find the same appearance of Pores in the bony Substance , which are no other than the transverse Sections of small Vessels ; and besides these , there are other Vessels running longways in the Bone .
And we find just the same in those transparent parts , that lie between the bony Particles , which are represented thicker between BCD E , than they appeared to me .
It is my Opinion , that the use of these bony Particles is , to convey an Oleaginous Liquor into the Periosteum , and that from the Periosteum it is carried by the intervention of the other Membranes into all parts of the Body , when in a healthful Condition .
In another place , I saw a great number of Vessels arising from a greater depth within the Bone , which drew closet together , so as to compose small Fasciculi , before they entered the Periosteum , in which they separated one from another , and dispersed themselves again .
It is difficult to determine , whether these Vessels bring any Liquor into the Bone , or carry it out ; but I rather think they serve to carry it out of the Bone .
Having placed another piece of Bone before the Microscope , with the Periosteum adhering to it , I could discover a great number of Vessels , that I had cut thro ' lengthways , as they ran along the Periosteum , and others that were cut thro ' transversly , and appeared as so many Points , as is represented in Fig. 2 .
by KLOPQN A , where the bony part is marked by the Letters KLMN A , in which , tho ' no Pores , or Vessels , are here represented , yet is it full of openings .
That part , which is designed by LOPQN M , we must not take to be entirely membranous , for I am of opinion , that that part of it , which lies next the Bone , and which is represented by LM N , is of a bony Substance .
I had another small piece of Bone lying before a Microscope , of which I caus 'd a part to be represented by RSWXT V , Fig. 3 .
in which RSTV is the Bone , and SWXT the Periosteum , which in this place was no thicker than a thick Hair of a Man 's Beard , but in another part of the same Bone at a small distance , it was full four times that thickness .
I placed another piece of Bone before a Microscope in such a manner , as that the Bone did not appear , but only the Periosteum and the Muscular Fibres , which were cut thro ' transversly , and appeared to be surrounded by the Fibrillae of the Periosteum , as is represented by YZCDA B , Fig. 4 .
where YZAB is the Periosteum , and ZCDA are the fleshy Fibres cut thro ' transversly .
This piece of Bone was taken from one of the Ribs of a fat Ox , and I was surprised to find , that in this place , as I cut longways thro ' the Rib , I could not discover any Particles of the Marrow , whereas in other parts the Rib abounded with them .
Notwithstanding the great number of Observations that I have made upon the Bones , and the Membrane that surrounds them , which is commonly called the Periosteum , I have never been able to satisfy myself entirely about them .
I still imagined , that the part of the Periosteum , which immediately covers the Bone , and is strictly united to it , must have a degree of hardness approaching to that of the Bone , and that at a small distance from the Bone , the Periosteum must have a softness and flexibility like that of the carneous and adipose Membranes .
I had lying by me four pieces of Ribs of a fat Ox , which I had kept by me full two Months , and which were now grown very dry .
From one of these I tore off the Periosteum , which I found stuck much harder to the Bone that I could have imagined , and I observed , that a great many Particles of this Membrane were left on cleaving to the Bone .
This I did with design to make some Observations on the superficial part of the Bone , which is not near so hard as those bony Particles , that lie a little deeper .
From this Bone I cut off some very thin slices , both along the Bone , and likewise transversly , one of which I placed before a Microscope , and gave it to the Painter , that for many Years has drawn all my Observations .
This Piece is represented by ABK C , Fig. 5 .
having been cut off transversly , and as thin as possible , from the Rib , with part of the Periosteum , as from K to C , still adhering to the Bone , and another part of it torn off from the Bone , as designed by BK D , except that in some places the Bone and the Membrane are still united by Vessels torn out of their places , that run from one to the other .
In this Figure DEFC represents the Periosteum , and the part designed by EGHI F , is something lying upon it , which I could not tell what to make of , tho ' it appeared to me to be Membranous .
I had likewise some very thin slices shaven off from the Rib both of an Ox , and of a Calf , from which I tore off the Periosteum entirely , or at least as much of it , as possibly I could ; after which I caused the edge of the Bone it had stuck to , to be represented by the crooked Line , LM N , Fig. 6 .
In Fig. 7 .
OPQ represents the edge of another small slice of Bone , from which the Periosteum has been torn off , by which appearance it should seem , that the Union of the Periosteum with the Bone is so firm and strong , that , in separating it , some of the superficial Particles of the Bone are torn off with it .
I have likewise discovered some Vessels running along within the Marrow-bone of the Shank of an Ox , that seemed to be Blood-vessels .
Since now it appears from our Observations , which have been made with great Diligence and Care upon Bones of all kinds , that the Bones do for the most part consist of exceeding small Vessels , which Vessels arise from the inner , hollow , or spongy part of the Bone , and passing thro ' the superficial or cortical Substance , enter the Periosteum , and are from thence continued farther into the Body , yea even into the utmost parts of the Body ; we may from hence reasonably conclude , that , in a healthful Body , as there is a constant supply of an Oily Substance carried into the Bones , so this is again constantly carried out from the Bones by means of these Vessels , into all parts of the Body , even to the extremities of the Fingers .
To give an evident proof of this , let any Man lay the ends of his Fingers upon a clean and bright Pewter Plate , and he shall find the Pewter appear soiled in the place where he has touched it ; for in reality this Soil is nothing else , but some Oleaginous Particles discharg'd~ from the ends of his Fingers .
There is indeed something of a watery Substance mixed with the Oily Particles , but this evaporates in a little time , and leaves~ the Oily Particles lying upon the Plate .

