February 29 , 1814 .
SIR J. W. LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
On the Electrolysis of Secondary Compounds .
" By John Frederic Daniell , Esq. , D.C , L. , For .
Sec. R.S. , and Professor of Chemistry in King 's College , London ; and W. A. Miller , M.D. , Demonstrator of Chemistry in the same College .
The authors of this paper have further prosecuted the inquiry into the phenomena of electrolysis , commencing from the point to which it had been carried by Professor Daniell in his papers published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1839 and 1840 .
He had there shown , that in the electrolysis of neutral saline solutions , if the metal is one of those which do not decompose water at ordinary temperatures , it is precipitated in the metallic state at the platinode ; but if it belong to the class of those which , at ordinary temperatures , do decompose water , then an equivalent of the oxide is liberated at the platinode , while an equivalent of hydrogen makes its escape in : the gaseous form from the same electrode ; the acid , in both cases , being , at the same time , liberated at the zincode , accompanied by an equivalent proportion of oxygen .
On comparing these results with those of an independent voltameter included in the same circuit , it was found that a certain definite proportion of the force which resolves a single equivalent of a simple electrolyte into its anion and cation , produces the resolution of a full equivalent of a complex electrolyte into a simple metallic cation and a compound anion .
When ammoniacal salts in solution were thus decomposed , ammonia , with an equivalent of hydrogen , was liberated at the platinode ; while the acid , with an equivalent of oxygen , was evolved , as before , at the zincode .
Experimental evidence was thus obtained in support of two important theories ; namely , the ammonium theory advanced by Berzelius ; and the binary theory of salts propounded by Davy ; in which latter theory , all saline compounds are regarded as being formed on the type of the salts of the hydro-acids .
This binary composition of salts is , in thepresent paper , proved to exist , not only when the salts , previously held in solution by water , are decomposed by the voltaic current , but also when the fused anhydrous salt is electrolysed : for example , metallic silver in crystals is deposited upon the platinode , when fused nitrate of silver is included in the circuit .
On examining , by the current , the monobasic , dibasic , and tribasic phosphates , the authors found that there were three distinct modifications of the acid transferred .
From the monobasic phosphates there was obtained the metaphosphoric acid ; from the dibasic salts , pyrophosphoric acid ; and from the tribasic salts , the ordinary phosphoric acid was set free at the zincode .
The acids were transferred into weak alkaline solutions and recognised by their appropriate tests .
The view entertained by Professor Graham of the composition of these salts is therefore completely confirmed .
On the other hand , the authors found , by similar experiments made with the yellow and the red prussiates of potash , that only one compound of cyanogen and iron , or ferrocyanogen as it exists in the yellow salt , is evolved at the zincode ; and they not only converted the yellow into the red salt by electrolytic action , but , conversely , reproduced the yellow from the red .
In pursuing their researches on double salts , a new order of facts was brought to light , which clearly proved that although the two ions of the electrolyte are always evolved in equivalent proportions , yet that they are not transferred in equivalent proportions to the respective electrodes ; that some bases , such as copper , zinc , iron and alumina , do not travel at all towards the platinode ; that some , as magnesium , do so in small proportion only ; and that others , as barium and potassium , are transferred in greater abundance ; those whose oxides are most soluble appearing to travel most easily .
On the other hand , the acids , whether forming soluble hydrates or not , seem all to travel towards the zincode , in proportions dependent principally on the nature of the base with which they are united .
The curious phenomena which have thus been brought to light , concur in establishing the general fact , that the disengagement of the cation and anion of an electrolyte in equivalent proportion is not always affected , as is commonly represented , by their simultaneous transfer in opposite directions to their respective electrodes , in the exact proportion of half an equivalent of each ; but that it is sometimes brought about by the transfer of a whole equivalent of the anion to the zincode , whereby a whole equivalent of the cation is left uncombined at the platinode , or by the transfer of unequivalent portions of each in opposite directions , making together a whole equivalent of matter transferred either to one electrode or to the other ; or , in other words , by the transfer of a quantity of matter capable of exercising one equivalent of chemical force : so that when the anion transferred to the zincode exceeds half an equivalent , the cation transferred to the platinode is , in an equal proportion , less than half an equivalent , and vice versed ; the anion and cation set free being always in equivalent proportions .
In no case , however , has there been observed the transfer of a whole equivalent of the cation to the exclusion of the anion .
These facts , the authors conceive , are irreconcilable with any of the molecular hypotheses which have been hitherto imagined to explain the phenomena of electrolysis .

