314 Profs .
J. T. Cash and W. R. Dunstan .
[ Mar. 5 , pounds .
Amidobenzene and nitrobenzene are less active in producing rigor .
The respiration is considerably and early affected in warm-blooded animals ( cats ) by benzene and its compounds .
There is usually a primary acceleration , followed by slowing .
The heart appeared to stop beford the respiration in poisoning by benzene and its haloid compounds , by ethylbenzene , amidobenzene , and nitrobenzene , whilst respiration usually failed before the heart ; or nearly at the same time , in poisoning by the methylbenzenes and oxy benzenes .
The first effect of the benzene compounds oh the pulse or on blood pressure is usually a quickening of the pulse and a ' rise in the pressure .
This is followed by slowing of the pulse and fall of the pressure .
in their preliminary communication in 1887 , the authors directed attention \lt ; to the curious resemblance between the tremor caused by benzene and some other aromatic substances in ' frogs and the symptoms of disseminated sclerosis in man .
In the present paper , they point out also the likeness between the violent slapping movements caused in the frog by some of the haloid compounds of benzene , as well as by amidobenzene , and the sy mptoms of locom otor ataxy in man .
IV .
" The Physiological Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites considered in connexion with their Chemical Constitution .
Part I. The Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites on Blood Pressure .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica in ' the University of Aberdeen , and Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry to the Pharnaaoeutical Society of Great Britain .
Received March 4 , 1891 .
' ( Abstract .
) - CONTENTS .
I. Introductory .
II .
Description* of the Nitrites ; and of the processes Used in preparing them .
III .
Action of\gt ; Amyl Nitrite .
Description of the Method of Investigation .
1^- Action of other Paraffinic Nitrites contrasted with , that of'Amyl Nitrite .
V. 'General Summary of Blood Pressure Experiments .
VI .
General Consideration* of the Modification-of N itrite-action induced by Splanchnic Stimulation and Section .
VII .
Action of Nitrites on the Human Subject .
The present investigation was commenced three years ago , in ord\lt ; r to throw further light on the mode of action ; of the paraffinic nittites when introduced into the animal organism , and particularly tp detti 1891 .
] The Physiological Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites .
315 i f i i I mine in what manner this action is conditioned by the different chemical constitution of the vai'ious nitrites employed .
Since the chemical constitution of these compounds is well established , and their molecules are comparatively simple in structure , and , moreover , as their principal physiological effects are capable of accurate quantitative study , it seemed likely that the inquiry wrould furnish valuable pharmacological results .
Our knowledge of the physiological behaviour of the organic nitrites has been almost wholly derived from the study of amyl nitrite , which has been observed to produce a similar but far greater effect than its lower homologue ethyl nitrite , whose action , however , has not hitherto been so closely examined as that of the amyl compound .
Unfortunately it seems certain that the results which have been obtained with amyl nitrite are to a large extent vitiated by the circumstance that , as a rule , insufficient pains have been taken to procure the nitrite in a chemically pure state , whilst , in addition , the usual mode of administration has been such that it is impossible to determine exactly how much of the compound has actually been inhaled .
It is believed that both these sources of error have been obviated in the present research .
The exact composition of each substance was known , and a special apparatus was devised for ensuring the inhalation without loss of a definite amount of nitrite , through the trachea in animals , and through the nostrils in the human subject .
In this , the first part of the communication , an account is given of the principal work which has already been done on this subject , and this is followed by a bi'ief description of the method by which the nitrites have been prepared and their purity ascertained .
The physiological actions which have been made the subject of special study are those on blood pressure , pulse , and respiration , whilst the action on striated muscular fibre has also been fully examined .
The present paper deals almost entirely with the action of various nitrites on blood pressure , and with the special apparatus used in studying it .
h- subsequent paper will have reference to the action of these same nitrites in producing contraction of striated muscle , and will conclude with a discussion of the whole of our results , both in their chemical and .
physiological aspects .
I he nitrites have been prepared by the reaction of the correspond-n\gt ; g alcohol , previously purified , with sodium nitrite in the presence of 1 Ue acid .
This has proved to constitute a satisfactory plan of preparing the entire series of nitrites with which we have worked .
The uimd nitrites , after having been thoroughly washed and dried , were repeatedly distilled , in some cases under reduced pressure , until a 'fnid boiling at a constant temperature was obtained .
Proof that e liquids thus obtained had the composition of the required nitrites Profs .
J. T. Cash and W. R. Dunstan .
p\far ^ was furnished by analysis .
The nitrites which we have prepared are those of methyl , ethyl , primary propyl , secondary propyl , primary butyl , secondary butyl , tertiary butyl , isobutyl , \#171 ; -amyl , y3-amyl , and tertiary amyl .
Certain of these nitrites were prepared by us for the first time , while of those which had already been described some have been found to ^possess different physical properties to those usually ascribed to them .
For the purposes of administration , a known volume of each nitrite was taken .
The relative density of each substance having been previously determined , the weight corresponding to the volume taken was readily calculated , and from this was ascertained the amount of the active nitrite group ( NQ2 ) present .
The apparatus for recording alterations in blood pressure consisted of a mercurial manometer writing-upon a slowly rotating drum , and a Fick 's kymograph -writing upon a more - rapidly revol ving Balzac 's cylinder .
These manometers could be employed together or separately , but , as a rule , when pressure and number of pulsations only were being observed , both were kept open .
The advantage of the arrangement is that a considerable period of time is represented by a short lineal movement on a small drum , whilst on the quick one the pulse can be reckoned and the course of the rapidly occurring1 variations of pressure studied .
Respiration was reoorded on a registering Marey 's tambour attached to a double tambour placed* on the thorax of the animal .
An electrical signal , in connexion with a key and Daniell s cell , was placed beneath the point recording the blood pressure in order to mark the time of* administration of nitrite .
In cases where vagus , splanchnic , or sciatic stimulation was employed , a double key admitted the faradic current from the secondary coil of a du Bois-Reymond 's inductovium .to the electrodes on which the nerve rested , while at the same time it closed the signal circuit indicating the length of stimulation .
The following represents the course of the nitrite administration .
The blood pressure being ; steady , the clockwork of the quick drum was started so as to bring -it Tip to full speed before the cylinder was made to rotate by screwing up the friction- wheel .
, The nitrite was then introduced into the side tube of the inhaler ; an arrangement of valves permitted inspiration only to take place through this tube .
The cylinder was started , and after a sufficient record of the pulse and respiration for the ' time .being had been recorded , the nitrite was administered , the time of administration being recorded .
A sufficient time having elapsed for inhalation , the air-tube of the inhaler\lt ; was opened , the quick drum being permitted to run as long as was necessary for the purpose of recording the changes in pulse and pressure .
During the recovery of pressure an occasional record of pulse and respiration was taken on the quick drum , corresponding marks being made on the slowly revolving cylinder .
1891 .
] The Physiological Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites .
Ifc is well established that small doses of amyl nitrite cause a fall of blood pressure , resulting chiefly , if not entirely , from a powerful dilatation of the arterioles , reducing peripheral resistance to a great extent .
Two distinct views have been advanced as to the cause of the dilatation .
Filehne maintains that his experimental results demonstrate the dilatation to be due , not to a local action on the walls of the vessels , but to the direct action of the nitrite on the vaso-motor centres .
On the other hand , Brunton , and also Mayer and Friedrich , believe they have shown that the dilatation is the result of a direct action on the walls of the vessel , and is independent of any effect on the central nervous system .
After discussing the experiments of Filehne , Brunton , and Mayer , an account is given of the experiments made by the authors to elucidate this question .
These were made with cats , but control experiments with rabbits afforded the same results .
In the first series the bead of the animal was entirely cut off from the circulation , yet inhalation of pure amyl nitrite ( -J^th c.c. ) caused a rapid fall of pressure , the lowest point reached exactly corresponding with that noticed in an immediately preceding experiment , in which the head was included in the circulation .
In the second series all the arteries passing to the head were temporarily ligatured , and salt solution containing dissolved amyl nitrite ( g^th c.c. ) injected through the distal end of the carotid artery , one of the jugular veins being opened so as to admit of an escape of blood and hinder the production of a possibly abnormal intravascular tension in the brain .
The same effect was constantly observed ; the blood pressure rose , and not until the clamps were removed did the fall of pressure of the usual character occur .
There is thus no indication of the characteristic nitrite effect , so long as the vessels are ligatured , although the nitrite must have passed to the medulla oblongata by vascular anastomosis , and therefore to the chief vaso-motor centre .
By the injection of Berlin blue , it was demonstrated that access could be gained to the medulla through this channel .
The conclusion that the nitrite effect is the result of an action on the vessels , and not on the central nervous system , was confirmed by observations on the effect produced by nitrites after splanchnic stimulation and section .
Splanchnotomy is attended with a considerable reduction of pressure , and if nitrite be administered when this is at its minimum , a further reduction occurs , which , however , is not so great as that observed before section .
But if administration of nitrite be delayed until the occurrence of one of the temporary elevations of pressure which are observed from time to time , the fall of pressure closely approximates to that produced before splanchnotomy .
Simultaneous splanchnic stimulation and nitrite lnhalation also cause a normal fall in pressure .
In experiments with the human subject , an accurate record was 318 Physiological Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites .
[ Mar 5 f taken of the pulse-rate , after inhalation of a known quantity of || !
nitrite .
A mask inhaler was specially devised , so as to avoid loss of $ substance during inhalation .
It consisted of a conical metal bo* f covering the mouth , and fitting accurately on the bridge of the nose by the aid of a hollow rubber border , which could be distended by injection of air .
It is provided with three tubes opening out of a f common trunk in the front of the mask ; one of these was not fur- I nished with any valve , but the two lateral tubes had each one valve | opening inwards and outwards respectively .
The tube intended for f the inspiration of nitrite had a continuation of india-rubber , ia the f middle of which i a glass bulb was inserted for the reception of the I nitrite .
Spring clamps were placed on either side of the bulb .
The f mask having been adjusted to the face , and respiration being regular | through the valvular tube , the drum was started at full speed so as to I record the normal pulse rate , and the- inhalation tube was opened by i removing the clamps on - either side of the bulb at the same time as I the interior tube was closed .
The time of inhalation was recorded by i a signal marker. .
There is a considerable variation on the part of individuals to j nitrite effect , the acceleration of the pulse in the case of those of f neurotic tendency being much greater , and the time of its con- I tinuance much less than in that of a lymphatic subject .
The order j of activity ( extent of , acceleration ) for various nitrites deduced from j a large number of .
experiments-is ( 1 ) a-amyl ; ( 2 ) / 3-amyl ; ( 3 ) iso- \ butyl 5 ( 4 ) secondary butyl ; ( 5 ) primary butyl ; ( 6 ) secondary propyl ; ( 7 ) primary propyl ; ( 8 ) ethyl ; ( 9 ) methyl. .
The action of each paraffinic nitrite has-been closely contrasted with | that of amyl nitrite .
The results may be broadly summarised as J follows:\#151 ; All the nitrites examined produce , in whatever way administered , | a reduction of blood pressure , variable , .
however , according to the j compound employed in its extent and in its progress , as well as in the | ensuing recovery .
A pulse acceleration usually accompanies and , succeeds the fall upon inhalation , the extent of inhalation-varying in the case of individual nitrites .
The acceleration is less upon intra-vascular injection , 1 especially intra-arterial injection , than when administration is by inhalation ; a distinct retardation of pulse is frequently produced by the former method , especially by carotid injection.* The extent of acceleration appears to be less in the case of cats than in the human subject .
The respiration is affected ( 1 ) temporarily during and immediately subsequent to inhalation , in various degrees by the different nitrites , and ( 2 ) permanently by the repeated administrations of the same or different nitrites .
1891.1 0n the Structure and Development of Dentine .
As regards the principal effect , reduction of blood pressure , the activity ( extent of reduction ) of the various nitrites takes the following order when equal volumes are administered to animals by inhalation ( 1 ) secondary propyl ; ( 2 ) tertiary butyl ; ( 3 ) secondary butyl , ( 4 ) isobutyl , nearly equal ; ( 5 ) tertiary amyl ; ( 6 ) \#171 ; -amyl , ( 7 ) j8-amyl , nearly equal ; ( 8 ) methyl ; ( 9 ) butyl ; ( 10 ) ethyl ; ( 11 ) propyl .
The order is somewhat modified when the nitrites are given by intra-vascular injection .
" When the duration of the sub-normal pressure is considered , the order is nearly the reverse of that given above , the effect of methyl nitrite being the last , and that of secondary propyl nitrite one of the first , to .
disappear .
In contrasting the results of the measurement of pulse acceleration produced by these nitrites , it is noticed that their activity in this respect does not follow the same order as that in reducing blood pressure , the amyl nitrites in particular occupying a higher position in the table .
The causes of these differences will be considered in the second part of this paper , in conjunction with a discussion of the relation of the chemical constitution of the nitrites to the physiological effects now described , and also to those produced in striated muscle , a description of which will form part of the subsequent communication .
In order that the physiological data might be placed on an absolutely satisfactory basis for chemical discussion , we determined at the commencement of last year to repeat all the more important physiological experiments .
This necessitated the labour of preparing fresh specimens of the nitrites. .
The results of these confirmatory experiments have been in every respect satisfactory , since they differed in no important respect from those previously obtained .
The chemical part of this enquiry has been conducted in the Research Laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society , in London , whilst the physiological experiments have been made in the Pharmacological Laboratory of the University of Aberdeen** ^ " Some Points in the Structure and Development of Dentine .
" By J. Howard Mummery .
Communicated by 0 .
S. Tomes , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1891. .
( Abstract .
) The purpose of the present paper is to show that there are appear-aucea in dentine which suggest that it is formed by a connective tissue calcification , and that the process is more closely analogous to \#174 ; ormation of bone than has usually been supposed , he varied theories held as to the structure and development of

