Dr. Tyndall .
On Carbonic Acid and Bisulphide of Carbon .
129 DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Effect of pyrogallic acid solution upon the red blood-corpuscles of the newt , " 2 .
Effect of gallic acid .
3 .
Effect of hydrochloric acid .
4 .
Effect of oxalic acid .
" 5 .
Effect of carbolic acid .
\#166 ; - 6 .
Various forms assumed by the corpuscles when acted upon by ammonium sulphocyanide or potassic sulphocyanide .
t* 7 .
Various forms produced by the action of ammonium chromate .
" 8 .
Shows final effect of ammonium sulphocyanide on the nucleus , yiz .
, to reveal an intranuclear plexus .
April 5 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a hitherto unobserved Resemblance between Carbonic Acid and Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1883 .
Chemists are ever on the alert to notice analogies and resemblances in the atomic structure of different bodies .
They long ago indicated points of resemblance between bisulphide of carbon and carbonic acid .
In the case of the latter we have one atom of carbon united to two of oxygen , in the case of the former one atom of carbon united to two of sulphur .
Attempts have been made to push the analogy still further by the discovery of a compound of carbon and sulphur analogous to carbonic oxide , but hitherto , I believe , without success .
I have now to note a resemblance of some interest to the physicist , and of a more subtle character than any hitherto observed .
When , by means of an electric current , a metal is volatilized and subjected to spectrum analysis , the " reversal " of the bright band of the incandescent vapour is commonly observed .
This is known to be due to the absorption of the rays emitted by the hot vapour in the partially cooled envelope of its own substance which surrounds it .
The effect is the same in kind as the absorption by cold carbonic acid of the heat emitted by a carbonic qxide flame .
For most sources of VOL. xxxv .
K Mr. H. Lamb .
[ Apr. 5 , radiation carbonic acid is one of the most transparent of gases ; for the radiation from the hot carbonic acid produced in the carbonic oxide flame , it is the most opaque of all .
Again , for all ordinary sources of radiant heat , bisulphide of carbon , both in the liquid and vaporous form , is one of the most diathermanous bodies known .
I thought it worth while to try whether a body reputed to be analogous to carbonic acid , and , like it , so pervious to most kinds of heat , would show any change of deportment when presented to the radiation from hot carbonic acid .
Does the analogy between the two substances extend to the vibrating periods of their atoms ?
If it does , then the bisulphide , like the carbonic acid , will abandon its usually transparent character , and play the part of an opaque body , when presented to the radiation from the carbonic oxide flame .
This proves to be the case .
Of the radiation from hydrogen , a thin layer of bisulphide transmits 90 per cent. , absorbing only 10 .
For the radiation from carbonic acid , the same layer of bisulphide transmits only 25 per cent. , 75 per cent , being absorbed .
For this source of rays , indeed , the bisulphide transcends , as an absorbent , many substances which , for all other sources , far transcend it.* II .
" On Electrical Motions in a Spherical Conductor .
" By Horace Lamb , M.A. , formerly Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics in the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 14,1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper treats of the motions of electricity produced in a spherical conductor by any electric or magnetic operations outside it .
The investigation was undertaken some time ago in illustration of Maxwell 's theory of electricity .
This theory is so remarkable , more especially in the part which it assigns to dielectric media in the propagation of electro-magnetic effects , that it seemed worth while to attack some problem in which all the details of the electrical processes could be submitted to calculation , although it was evident * Nearly twenty years ago I observed , among other changes of diathermic position , the reversal of bisulphide of carbon and chloroform , when the pale blue flame of a Bunsen burner was the source of heat .
When , for example , the rays issued from a luminous jet of gas , the absorptions of the bisulphide and of chloroform were found to be 9'8 and 12 per cent , respectively j whereas when the Bunsen flame was employed , the absorptions of the same two substances were 11*1 and 6'2 per cent. The cause of this reversal doubtless is that in the Bunsen flame hot carbonic acid is the principal radiant .
( " Phil. Trans. , " 1864 , p. 852.)\#151 ; April 6 .

