]\gt ; The Catalytic of Copper.\mdash ; Part I. By W. G. PALMIIR , St. John 's College , Canbridge .
( Communicated by Sir William Pope , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1920 .
) There has been obtained , during recent years , a very great bulk of knowleclge concerning the action of solid substances as accelerators or catal)\ldquo ; of chemical reactions taking .
place in the gaseous phase .
Such catalytic actions include among their number processes for the production of sulphuric and nitric acids , for the manufacture of synthetic ammonia , and for the " " hardening\ldquo ; of vegetable oils , and it is natural that the detailed tion of this type of reaction should have been pursued mainly by industrial chemists anxious only to obtain the most efficient catalytic material by merely empirical methods .
For this reason , and also because research upon lytic actions presents certain peculiar experimental difficulties , the elucidation 01 the theoretical aspect of the subject is still , owing to the lack of experimental quantitative data .
For a reaction accelerated catalytically , there will clearly be three parameters affecting the velocity of the reaction:\mdash ; ( i ) The bulk concentration of the reacting substances .
( ii ) The temperature of reaction .
( iii ) activity of the catalyst .
( i ) and ( ii ) are general for all chemical reactions .
The parameter ( i ) ma } be kept very approximately constant , while ( ii ) and ( iii ) are varied , by carrying out the reaction always in its " " initial\ldquo ; state , that is to say , by passing the reacting substances over the catalyst at such a speed that at any the concentration of the resultants of the reaction is ible compated with that of the reactants .
It has been the object of the present work to discover in what way parameter ( iii ) depends on parameter ( ii ) .
As is well known , the activity of the catalyst depends not only upon the temperature at which it is acting , but also on the mode of formation of the catalytic substance .
For instance , it will be shown that pure metallic copper prepared by the electrolysis of solutions of copper salts no catalytic activity of dehydrogenation upon alcohols , while the activity of copper prepared by reduction from its oxide depends on the temperature at which the reduction is carried out , and upon the reducing used .
The problem of standardising the mode of preparation of the solid catalyst Mr. W. G. Palmer .
so that its activity should be reproducible in successive preparations , has proved a very serious difficulty to any study of the temperature coefficient eatalytic activity .
* reaction chosen for study was the catalytic formation of acetaldehyde from ethyl alcohol by the action of copper .
This reaction was studied qualitatively by Sabatier and by Bouvealt .
Both these chemists agreed there , up to a temperature of 30 C. the reaction is represented by the simple equation Ethyl alcohol acetaldehyde hydrogen , and that no secondary reactions involving decomposition of aldehyde occur .
This has been confirmed recently by Armstrong and Hilditch .
S The use of vapour from a boiling liquid as reactant simplifies the experimental conditions , as it is easy to regulate the rate of passage of the reactant over the catalyst by control of the heat supplied to the liquid .
complete purity is more secured in liquids than in faseous reactants .
The catalytic activity of the metallic copper was found to decrease with use in spite of all precautions to ensure the purity of the reacting substances .
The cause of this deterioration is still unknown , but suggestions are offered tentatiyely in the discussion at the close of the present paper .
In the present work the initial activity of the freshly prepared copper was measured and found to give concordant results in the sense that after the catalyst had been oxidised and reduced a second time the activity was of the same value as in the first instance .
The initial activity remained constant for at least one hour after the beginning of an experiment .
Experiments with C'opper prepared ally .
It was thought that the difficulty pxevious workers have found in a reproducible catalyst might be oyercome by using as catalyst a cylindrical grid of metal toauze , coated with copper by electrolysis .
Not only is the metal more easily prepared pure in this way than by the usual chemical processes , but if the activity became lessened with use , the copper could be readily dissolved off and a new catalytic surface formed under constant conditions of deposition .
Qualitative experiments were made in order to determine the conditions of deposition most suitable to this object .
The surprising result was obtained .
RideaJ , ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 115 , p. 995 ( 1919 ) .
'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 136 , pp. 738 , 983 ( 1903 ) .
Bull .
Soc. Chim .
France , ' [ IV ] , vol. 3 , p. 119 ( 1908 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 259 ( 1920 ) .
The Catalytic Actirity of Copper .
that at no temperature between 20 C. and 30 C. is electrolylic copper , however prepared , catalytically active upon ethyl or isopropyl alcohols .
As this result , although negative , may probably be of importance in a discussion of the mechanism of the catalytic action , a summary of the experiments made is now given .
The copper was deposited on a cylinder of fine auze of diameter 1 cm .
and length 10 cm .
in the way recommended by Sand and Smalley for the estimation of copper .
* After several holes of about 3 mm. diameter had been made in the gauze it was found easy to obtain an even deposit of metal both inside and outside the cylinder .
The prepared contact material was supported by fine copper wires in the centre of an upright lass tube which could be electrically heated .
The alcohol was placed in a flask directly connected with the lower end of the reaction tube , and was kept boiling by the flask with an oil-bath kept at C. All stoppers were of cork , made by well steeping in melted paraffin wax under reduced pressure .
The alcohol and condensible products of catalytic action were collected and tested qualitatively for acetaldehyde or acetone accordingly as ethyl or isopropyl alcohol was used .
For the aldehyde a solution of magenta decolourised by sulphur dioxide was used ; for aetone the distillate was allowed to stand for some time with -nitrophenyl hydrazine .
A small wash-bottle containing a small quantity of the alcohol used was attached to the outlet from the receiver , so that any evolution of uncondensible gas in the reaction could also be detected .
The isopropyl alcohol used iu some experiments was prepared from acetone by reduction with hydrogen in the presence of nickel .
The acetone was previously purified by Shipsey and Werner 's method .
The ethyl alcohol was dried over lime and refractionated before use to a range of C. Metallic calcium was not used to remove the last traces of the water from the alcohol , as it was thought that this metal , as ordinarily supplied , would introduce poisons\ldquo ; into the alcohol .
The apparatus was tested gas-tight to a pressure of 12 inches of water before and after each experiment .
Sabatier ( loc. cit. supra ) observed C. and C. as the temperatures respectively at which copper reduced from its oxide began to react on isopropyl or ethyl alcohol .
( 1 ) The electrolyte was prepared by dissolving 5 .
of electrolytic copper foil in nitric acid , evaporating the solution and igniting the nitrate to * Trans. Faraday Soc vol. 6 , p. 205 ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 103 , p. 1255 . .
W. G. Palmer .
oxide , which was then dissolved in .
dilute sulphuric acid .
150 .
of the solution was taken for deposition ; 1 .
concentrated nitric acid was added to the electrolyte .
Deposition was carried out with amperes at volts and at a temperature of C. Before the alcohol over this preparation , the whole apparatus was filled with pure dry carbon dioxide by repeated exhaustion by the water pump .
With isopropyl alcohol at 20 C. for five hours , no formation of acetonle was observed .
( 2 ) Contact material as in ( 1 ) .
The apparatus was filled with hydrogen , by electrolysis of aqueous caustic potash , before experiment .
Isopropyl alcohol was unchanged after circulating at 29 C. for five hours .
( 3 ) The copper used in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) was removed from the silver gauze by dissolving it in dilute sulphuric acid containing hydrogen peroxide .
* Copper was then redeposited from electrolyte as in ( 1 ) at amperes and volts .
The deposit was washed in boiling water for two hours , and left in a desiccator with soda-lime overnight .
The apparatus was filled with as in ( 2 ) .
Isopropyl alcohol showed no change after circulating at .
for four hours .
( 4 ) The copper was deposited on the cleaned gauze at C. , with a reduced current of amperes at volts .
The deposit was first with cold water , and then with 3 per cent. sulphuric acid solution , and finally with distilled water .
The apparatus was with hydrogen .
There was no action on isoprop.yl alcohol after to 28 C. for hours .
( 5 ) The copper was deposited at a still lower current density , ampere in the presence of sulphuric acid only .
The temperature of deposition was C. Ethyl alcohol underwent no change by heatin to 29 C. for four hours .
, ( 6 ) During the removal of the copper in the above oxperiments , the silver gauze lost in weight , and became coated with finely divided silver .
It was evident that the silver was alloyed with the copper deposit at the temperatures to which this was heated .
All the experiments ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) were then repeated ( also without observing any catalytic effect ) , using as support for the electrolytic copper a coil of ordinary copper gauze .
This gauze was cleaned before use by boiling in dilute aqueous soda and by making it the cathode in a cell containing dilute sulphuric acid .
( 7 ) Copper was first deposited on the coil as in ( 5 ) .
The copperised gauze was then transferred to a bath of zinc hydroxide dissolved in caustic soda * Sand and Smalley , The Catatytic Activity of Copper .
solution , and metallic zinc deposited for a short time upon the } ) .
The zinc was caused to become alloyed with the copper by finally heating to This contact material was not active on ethyl-alcohol at 28 C. ( 8 ) The copper was deposited from Fehling 's solution by a current of 0.5 ampere at volts .
The coil was allowed to stand overnight in distilled water before being used .
Before placing in the reaction tube the dry contact material was weighed .
After ethyl alcohol had passed over this material at 29 C. for five hours without action , its mass was found not to have changed .
The deposit , therefore , contained no cuprous oxide which is commonly found in copper deposited from alkaline solutions .
( 9 ) Copper deposited from alkaline solution as in ( 8 ) .
Zinc was then deposited as in ( 7 ) but instead of alloying all the deposit with the copper by heating , it was assumed that a certain amount of alloying occurs during deposition ; the detachable zinc was dissolved off in 3 per cent. sulphuric acid .
This preparation was not active on ethyl alcohol at 31 C. ( 10 ) The surface of the coil used was so increased by successive wrappings after deposition as in ( 1 ) that it completely filled the reaction tube .
Even under these conditions no reaction was observed at C. with ethyl alcohol .
From the above series of experiments it is to be concluded that metallic copper , which has not been reduced from its oxide , has no dehydrogenating effect , even when alloyed with zinc .
Experiments with Copper Reduced its Oxide by Determinations of acetaldehyde formed during a period of time will obviously be valueless unless some means is used to check the constancy of the catalytic activity at all times in the interval .
A simple method was devised of making the escape of hydrogen gas in definite units of volume on a chronograph .
In the experiments to be now described the chronograph records were solely used to line the catalytic activity .
This method has the great advantage that } variation from constant activity during an experiment can at once be detected by inspecting the record .
Details of Apparatus ( fig. 1 ) .
The alcohol in the vessel A was kept boiling by means of a coil of nickel wire , , heated electrically , the necessary platinum leads being copper-plated , to prevent possible extraneous catalytic action .
The alcohol vapour passed VOL XCVIII.\mdash ; A. Mr. W. G. Palmer .
through the reaction tube , , over the catalyst in the inner tube at PP ( course shown in fig. 1 by means of arrows ) , condensing finally in the receiver , .
The liquid in could be back into A through a siphontube , , if the current in the heating coil , , were momentarily broken ; thus opening of the apparatus and exposure of the contact material to air were avoided , and the amount of alcohol needed for a series of experiments was reduced .
By plotting the current used to heat the il , , against the volume of.liquid condensed in in a given time , a curve was constructed showing the relationship between the beating current and the rate of passage of alcohol vapour over the catalyst .
The liquid condensed in contained a small quantity of aldehyde , which , however , very rapidly boiled through the reaction tube after its return to so that only alcohol vapour passed into after the first two minutes of distillation .
At the close of a day 's working , aldehyde was removed from the alcohol by boiling in a flask to which a simple bulbed tube was attached as condenser ; through this the volatile aldehyde escaped , while the alcohol was condensed .
The hydrogen from the reaction-tube , after passing though the calcium chloride trap-tube , , reached the specially constructed escape-tube , , the The Activity of Copper .
right-hand limb of which was graduated in cubic centimetres .
This tube contained a few cubic centimetres of water , the leyel of which rose an fell in the graduated limb at a rate corresponding with the production of hydrogen in ; the fall of liquid in the graduated limb followed on the cape of a definite volume of gas , read off by means of the graduations .
By slightly tilting the escape-tube , variations of from .
c , old be made in the unit at which escape of gas was possible .
The changes of level of liquid in were imitated in the manometer , containing dilute sulphuric acid .
An electrode of platinum wire descended into the acid in one limb of ; in the other limb , an electrode formed of a loop of platinum wire was so arranged that contact was made just as gas was about to escape from K The , momentary current so produced actuated a pointed steel style , , so that it descended on the revolving drum , , which was turned round once an hour by clockwork .
The manometer , , was surrounded with ice , in order to avoid irregular .
W. G. Palmer .
contacts caused by local heating of the sulphuric acid ; the connecting tube , , was of capillary bore , so that the fall of liquid in might not cause oscillations of the liquid level and consequent irregular contacts in M. The exit from was guarded by a deep vessel , through which carbon dioxide was constantly flowing , so that in any accidental sucking back only this inert gas could pass into the apparatus .
The stoppers marked were of cork , rendered gas-tight by waxing in vacuo , those marked were of rubber ; this material was not used where it would come into direct contact with liquid alcohol .
The temperature of the contact material was shown by a millivoltmeter in series with a copper-constantan thermo-couple , sheathed in a thin-walled glass tube to prevent extraneous catalytic action .
This couple was calibrated for the range C. by using the known melting-points of various metals and the boiling-point of water as reference points .
An enlarged diagram of the recording part of the chronograph is shown in fig. 2 .
Preparation of the Contact Material .
ElectroJytic copper foil was dissolved in nitric acid , the solution evaporated to dryness and the residue ignited .
The oxide so formed was dissolved in formic acid , and the formate twice recrystallised from aqueous solution .
Eight cylindrical rods of china clay , each of mm. dimensions , were used as support for the catalyst .
The composition of these rods was\mdash ; per cent. per cent. They were rendered inactive as catalysts by iting to bright redness for four hours .
The rods were then immersed in a cold saturated solution of the copper formate , and the pressure over the liquid reduced , by means of a water pump .
After some time , the pressure was released , .
absorption of the liquid into the porous rods .
This operation was repeated seyeral times .
The rods so nated were dried C. and then nited at 30 C. in a current of air .
They then showed a quite uniform of black cupric oxide , which could not be detached by rubbing ; the oxide was , however , instantly removed by nitric acid .
It is , therefore , probable that all the copper on the rods was active catalytically , as alcohol vapour could be expected to diffuse into the outer layers of the rods at least as quickly as nitric acid .
An estimation of copper on spare rods prepared simultaneously The Catatytic Activity of Copper .
to those actually used as eatalysts showed that the total amount of copper used as catalyst was about Ethyl alcohol dried over quicklime was used .
The fraction chosen boiled constantly at C. ( 757 mm. pressure ) .
The density Metallic calcium was not used for the alcohol for the reasons mentioned above .
As in the experiments with electrolytic copper , the air in the apparatus was displaced by exhausting three times with a water-pump , and lling with pure dry carbon dioxide after each exhaustion .
The hydrogen used for reduction was made by electrolysis of caustic potash solution between nickel electrodes , and was dried with calcium chloride .
Owing to the small quantity of copper oxide used , reduction took place in a very short time , so that a determination of catalytic activity could be made almost immediately after reduction .
The.hydrogen was allowed to flow into the reaction tube by opening the tap , ( fig. 1 ) and excess of gas issued from the lower tap , G. Before any quantitative experiments were carried out the copper oxide was reduced at C. and reoxidised again by air at C. seven times successively .
Owing to the design of the apparatus , only 100 .
of alcohol were required even Jor an extended series of experiments .
During the preliminary reductions of the copper oxide , this volume of alcohol was repeatedly passed over the copper , in order to remove possible catalyst " " poisons After this preliminary treatment of the and alcohol , three quantitative experiments were made to find the extent of catalysis , and whether the catalyst was reproducible in successive reductions .
A small wash-bottle containing alcohol kept cold in ice , and a guard-tube containing sodium bisulphite solution , were attached to the receiver , , to collect the last traces of aldehyde not retained in the alcohol collected in .
The aldehyde was estimated by Ripper 's method .
Between each determination the catalyst was oxidised for about one hour at 30 C. with air .
The following results were found:\mdash ; Mr. W. G. Palmer .
It was therefore assumed that the catalyst had reached a steady , reproducible state , and a series of determinations with the chronograph were made .
After every determination of reaction velocity at a particular temperature , the catalyst was oxidised with a current of air at C. In the first series of experiments ( of which the results correspond to Curve I in the accompanying diagram ) the reaction tube was filled with hydrogen before being heated .
In the second series ( Curve ) the reaction tube was slowly heated , and hydrogen passed in at a temperature of In all cases the copper was heated after reduction to the desired temperature of reaction in a current of hydrogen .
The chronograph records were measured by counting and averaging the number of points over 1 inch of the chart to minutes , lenoths6 being taken in several parts of the record .
Records were usually taken for 30-60 minutes .
The reaction velocity was found to be independent of the rate of flow of the alcohol vapour over the catalyst between the limits 7-35 c.c. of liquid alcohol vaporised per hour .
Determinations of reaction velocity were made in deliberately haphazard order with respect to temperature , so as to eliminate possible unidirectional influences .
The following tables show the results obtained:\mdash ; Table I.\mdash ; Catalyst from Copper Oxide reduced at the lowest possible Temperature by Activity of Copper .
Table II.\mdash ; Catalyst from Copper Oxide reduced at 20 C. by Hydrogen .
Verv sight action o Discussion of Results .
If it is granted that pure metallic copper as obtained by the electrolysis of a copper salt is not catalytically active , two possible theories of the source of the activity in reduced copper seem to offer themselves : ( i ) The activity is due to an oxide dissolved as a solid solution in the bulk of the metallic copper .
( ii ) The activity is due to one or more labile forms of copper , which pass only slowly into stable inactive forms .
It should be possible to gain insight into the of ( i ) or ( ii ) in the following way .
The deterioration of the catalyst according to ( i ) would be due to a gradual reduction of the oxide to metal .
The velocity at which this takes place should be markedly influenced by temperature , since the reaction would be strongly exothermic .
According to ( ii ) , deterioration of the catalyst is due to a slow change labile inactive stable form .
This change lecalls allotropic changes , and might be expected to proceed without any marked heat effect ; rate of deterioration would hence be only slightly influenced by temperature .
Experiments based on these suggestions are now in progress .
Certain experiments already carried out showed that the activity decreases smoothly with the time of use , after a period of one to two hours , during which the initial activity remained constant .
The reduction of copper oxide to metallic copper is very probably a complex reaction , resulting in the production of molecules of copper containing atoms of different valency .
For example , the three ions Cu ' probably proceed simultaneously when cupric oxide is reduced .
The resulting copper consists of two types of molecules , one type composed of atoms of Mr. W. G. Palmer .
cupric copper , and the other type of cuprous copper atoms .
These two sorts of molecules would be heterotopic and possess different chemical properties , * and certainly very different surface lattices , and so exhibit different adsorptive characteristics .
The proportion of one type of molecule to another type would naturally depend on the reducing agent used and on the temperature at which reduction took place .
The inactivity of electrolytic copper demonstrates the lack of catalytic power in molecules formed entirely of divalent copper .
Experiments are now progress to find the effect of reducing agents other than hydrogen upon the catalytic activity of the copper .
Form of the Curves relating the lnitial Catatytic Activity with Temperature .
So little work has been undertaken on the quantitative relations of the catalytic activity of the metals with temperature that material for comparison is almost completely lacking .
Grassi .
has determined the relation with temperature of the catalytic activity of copper as a hydrogenation agent , using ethylene as the reactin substance .
In this reaction the activity appeared to reach a steady state only after the lapse of some time ; the following numbers were obtained connecting the velocity of hydrogenation with temperature:\mdash ; Temperature .
Reaction velocity .
1.21 Armstrong and Hilditch ( loc. cit. supra ) have recently confirmed Sabatier 's .
observation that no secondary products are formed when alcohol is dehydrogenated , provided the temperature is below 30 C. They observed , on the oCher hand , that when a mixture of hydrogen and aldehyde vapour is passed over copper at temperatures between C. and C. much of the aldehyde is destroyed by secondary action .
These facts are perhaps best interpreted by supposing that alcohol is Qelectively adsorbed by copper from a mixture of alcohol and aldehyde vapours , .
so that during dehydrogenation the surface of the copper is covered by a layer of alcohol molecules , and adsorption and consequent destruction of the aldehyde prevented .
* Soddy , ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 115 , p. 23 1919 ) .
' Nuovo Cimento , ' vol. 11 , pp. 147-163 .
The Activity of Copper .
If it be supposed that enation of alcohol involves three stages:\mdash ; ( i ) Adsorption of alcohol molecules over the surface of the copper ; ( ii ) Activation of certain alcohol molecules by absorption of energy ; ( iii ) Evapol.ation of acetaldehyde and hydrogen away from the adsorption surface into the alcohol stream flowing past the catalyst ; then this process bears a close physical to the escape of ions from a heated solid .
The products of dehydrogenation correspond to the ions liberated , while the immediate escape of these products into the gas stream corresponds to the attainment of ' ' saturation current\ldquo ; by applying an E.M.F. to the thermionic system .
The velocity of formation of products of catalytic action should on this analogy be connected with absolute temperature by an equation of the form where A is a constant , and work necessary to liberate one molecule of aldehyde and one molecule of hydrogen from one molecule of alcohol adsorbed on the copper surface .
is , of course , not necessarily the same as for the reaction free aldehyde If is regarded as practically independent of temperature , this formula leads to curves with convexity towards the temperature axis , whereas the curves obtained in the present work show convexity towards the axis .
It seems , therefore , probable that is some function of , but of what form is at present impossible to determine .
The curve obtained by Grassi ( loc. cit. ) for the hydrogenation of ethylene by copper shows a very marked convexity towards the axis .
Richardson has shown that the form of the thermionic equation would not be materially altered if the molecule or atom became activated in quanta rather than continuously .
Curve I.\mdash ; There is a sharp change in the direction of this curve between the temperatures 25 C. and C. The simplest explanation is to suppose that the ' normal ' curve for complete adsorption and subsequent dehydrogenation of alcohol should be Abc , which is roughly parallel to Curve II .
At a temperature of 23 C. the activity begins to fall below the normal value , and continues to decrease to a minimum at about 26 C. The activity then reapproaches the normal * Richardson , ' Emission of Electricity from Hot Bodies , ' p. 27 , et seq. Phil. Mag vol. 28 , p. 633 ( 1914 ) .
The Catalytic Activity of Copper .
curve with bemperatures .
This decrease and subsequent recovery of the activity is most probably to be attributed to the partial adsorption of hydrogen , and consequent decrease of the number of alcohol molecules per unit area of the catalyst .
It is striking in this connection that Grassi found ( loc. cit. supra ) practically a maximum for the hydrogenating activity at about C. If aldehyde were adsorbed as well as hydrogen , secondary products might be expected in the products of reaction , which is not the case .
I am indebted to my wife for an analysis of the china-clay rods used to support the and for the preparation of pure isopropyl alcohol used in the experiments with electrolytic copper .

