1903 .
] Temperature and Carbon-Dioxide Assimilation .
355 " On the Effect of Temperature on Carbon-Dioxide Assimilation .
" By Gabrielle L. C. Matthaei .
Communicated by F. Darwin , F.B.S. Received July 29 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The C02-assimilation of single cherry-laurel leaves has been determined through a range of temperature from - 6 ' to 45 ' C. The amount of CO2 assimilated has been arrived at by the difference between the C02-content of a current of air before and after passing through the illuminated glass chamber containing the leaf .
At each temperature illumination of several different intensities has been employed in order to make certain that the amount of assimilation is not being limited by insufficient light .
This has been neglected by previous investigators , and quite erroneous results have been put forward .
Taking this precaution , there is obtained for each temperature a maximal assimilation specific to that temperature .
The amount of light required to produce the specific maximal assimilation varies directly with the magnitude of the maximum .
When this is once reached , further increase in the illumination or in the amount of C02 supplied produces no longer any augmentation of the assimilation .
2 .
When a leaf is exposed to light of high intensity the absorbed excess of radiation raises the temperature of the leaf above that indicated by an adjacent thermometer .
Under the conditions holding in these experiments , this excess sometimes amounted to as much as 10 ' C. It became , therefore , absolutely essential to know the effective internal temperature of the leaf .
This has been determined by inserting a very fine thermo-electric junction into the substance of the leaf , and determining the temperature by means of a galvanometer at intervals throughout the assimilation experiment .
3 .
Care was taken that the leaves employed in these experiments should be all initially in the same condition , since ancillary researches had shown that differences in previous nutrition and temperature may be disturbing factors in the results obtained .
The leaves to be employed were cut some time previously and kept , as a preliminary , under similar conditions of illumination and temperature .
In the course of the experiments it came out clearly that there are marked seasonal variations in the absolute assimilatory power of cherry-laurel leaves from the same individual plant .
4 .
For determining the " real assimilation " under any conditions a valuation of the concurrent respiratory C02-production is essential .
At low temperatures the respiration is small in proportion to the assimilation , and slight errors in valuation are not significant .
The 356 Temperature and Carbon-Dioxide Assimilation .
[ July 29 , respiratory allowance could then be arrived at by determining the CCb-production of a number of similar leaves in the dark .
At moderately high temperatures the respiration of the actual single leaf employed was determined , where possible , both before the assimilation experiment and after , when the CCVproduction is always much increased .
At the highest temperatures rapid decline of vitality made this procedure impossible , and only an approximate value could be arrived at .
5 .
Taking all these factors into consideration , a satisfactory series of assimilation maxima for the whole range of temperature was finally obtained .
The amount is just determinable at - 6 ' C. , and then rises rapidly with higher temperatures , giving a curve which is convex to the temperature abscissa .
The curve is similar to the accepted curves for the effect of temperature on respiration , and it rises more and more steeply at higher temperatures\#151 ; certainly up to 38 ' C. At temperatures about this point the leaf is not capable of maintaining its initial high rate of assimilation for any long time , so that the values obtained for successive hourly estimations with the same leaf form a rapidly declining series .
The higher the temperature the shorter the duration of the period of maximal assimilation , and it becomes experimentally impossible with hourly estimations to obtain the maximal value at temperatures close to the fatal temperature of 45 ' C. The final numbers actually obtained , which can be only sub-maximal , show a conventional " optimum " at a temperature about 38 ' C. , with a subsequent very rapid decline .

