Some farther Observations on the Use of the Colchicum autumnale in Gout .
By Sir Everard Honcme , Bart. V..P.R.S .
Read May 8 , 1817. .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 262 .
] When the infusion of colchicum is kept for some time , it throws down a sediment , in which the purgative qualities of the root appear principally to reside , while its separation does not seem to diminislh the specific effects of the medicine upon gout .
When the bulb of the Colchicum autunmnale , says the author , is infused in wine , both extractive matter Land mucilage are taken up , but a copious deposition takes place in the strained tincture .
Several experiments proved that this first deposit is nearly inert ; but the clear liquor subsequently forms other depositions , and it is to these that the experiments in this paper relate .
The author took half a bottle of Eaau medicinale containing none of the sediment , and its effects were extremely mild compared with those of the other half containing the sediment .
To ascertain how far this sediment , thus shown to contribute to the violent operation of the medicine upon , was active in curing the gout , Sir Everard made the following experiment .
Sixty drops of the clear vinous infusion were given to a man labouring under a severe fit of gout .
It produced slight nausea , and operated twice gently upon the bowels .
In 19 hours his pulse fell from 115 to 92 , and in 48 hours he was well , and continued so for more than three months .
The result of this case satisfied the author that the principle in the colchicum which cures gout is retained in permanent solution , and induced him to believe that the violent effects of the remedy upon the stomach and bowels , must depend upon some distinct substance contained in the sediment .
To ascertain this point several experiments were instituted upon dogs , tending not merely to confirr Sir Everard 's opinion upon this head , but likewise satisfactorily to demonstrate the identity of the Eau medicinale with the infusiona of Colchicum autumnale .
The experiments were made by Mr. Gatecombe , with the following results .
TI'hirty drops of Ecau medicinale , with the deposit injected into the jugular vein , produced a purging of nine hours duration .
One hundred and sixty drops administered in the same way , killed the dog in six hours , and there were appearances of violent inflammation in the bowels .
The same quantity taken by the mouth , produced nearly similar effects .
One hundred and sixtv drops of the vinous infusion of colchicum , without sediment , produced purging and vomiting , from which the animal recovered .
Two hundred drops produced the same effect , but 300 drops produced effects corresponding with those of the 160 of Eau meaiicinale .
The dog died in nine hours .
Hence it appears that the Eau medicinale produces double the effect of the vinous infusion of colchicum .
Six grains of the deposit from the vinous infusion , produced vomiting and purging , with blood , which lasted twenty-four hours .
Sir Everard conceives , from these experiments , that the acrimonious and highly drastic effect of the Eat medicinale , is to be referred to the sediment which it deposits , and notices the analogy which thus exists between it and the juice of the wild cucumber , the sediment of which is known under the name of Elaterium as a highly drastic purge , whereas the juice which has deposited this substance i , s comparatively inert ,

