342 Sir J. B. Laws and Dr. J. H. Gilbert .
[ June 21 VIII .
" Supplement to former Paper entitled\#151 ; 'Experimental Inquiry into the Composition of some of the Animals Fed and Slaughtered as Human Food , '\#151 ; Composition of the Ash of the Entire Animals , and of certain Separated Parts .
" By Sir John Bennet Lawes , Bart. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.C.S. , and Joseph Henry Gilbert , Ph. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , V.P.C.S. Received June 11 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper ( " Phil. Trans. , " Part 'll , 1859 ) the authors had given the actual weights , and the percentage proportion in the entire body , of the individual organs , and of certain more arbitrarily separated parts , of 326 animals\#151 ; oxen , sheep , and pigs\#151 ; in different conditions as to age , maturity , fatness , \amp ; c. They called particular attention to the wide difference in the proportion by weight of the stomachs and intestines in the three descriptions of animal ; the proportion of stomach and contents being very much the highest in oxen , considerably less in sheep , and little more than one-tenth as much in pigs as in oxen .
On the other hand , the intestines and contents contributed a less proportion to the weight of the body in oxen than in either sheep or pigs ; the percentage by weight in pigs being nearly twice as high as in sheep , and more than twice as high as in oxen .
With these very characteristic differences in the proportion of the receptacles and first laboratories of the food , the other internal organs collectively , as also the blood , contributed a pretty equal proportion by weight of the entire body , in the three descriptions of animal .
Ten animals had been selected for the determination of the chemical composition , namely\#151 ; a fat calf , a half-fat ox , and a fat ox ; a fat lamb , a store sheep , a half-fat sheep , a fat sheep , and a very fat sheep ; a store pig , and a fat pig .
In these , in the collective carcass parts , in the collective offal parts , and in the entire bodies , the total nitrogenous substance , the total fat , the total mineral matter , the total dry substance , and the water , were determined ; and the results were recorded and discussed in detail .
It was shown that , as the animal fattened , the percentage of nitrogenous substance decreased considerably , whilst that of the fat and of the total dry matter increased in a much greater degree .
It was estimated that the portions of well fattened animals which would be consumed as human food would contain three , four , and even more times as much fat as dry nitrogenous substance ; and comparing such animal food with wheat-flour bread , it was concluded that , taking into consideration the much higher capacity for oxidation of a given weight 1883 .
] Composition of Animal Food .
of fat than of starch , such animal food contributed a much higher roportion of non-nitrogenous substance , reckoned as starch , to one of nitrogenous substance than bread .
In fact the introduction of our staple animal foods , to supplement our otherwise mainly farinaceous diet did not increase , but reduced , the relation of the flesh-forming material to the respiratory and fat-forming capacity of the food .
Finally , the actual amount , and the percentage , of total ash , in most of the internal organs , and some other separated parts , were given .
It was shown that the percentage of total mineral matter , like that of the nitrogenous substance , decreased , not only in the entire body , but especially in the collective carcass parts , as the animals matured .
It was the object of the present communication to record the results of the complete analysis of the ashes of the collective carcass parts , of the collective offal parts , and of all parts , of each of the ten animals .
Forty complete ash analyses had been .
made .
As was to be expected , more than four-fifths of the ashes consisted of phosphoric acid , lime , and magnesia ; these making up the largest amount in the ash of the oxen , less in that of sheep , and less still in that of pigs .
Potash and soda were also prominent constituents .
Assuming , for the purposes of illustration merely , that one of phosphoric acid was combined with three of fixed base , the ashes of the ruminants showed an excess of base ; whereas , according to the same mode of calculation , the ashes of the pigs showed no such excess .
It was , unfortunately , only in the case of the offal parts of the pigs that the ash of the chiefly bony , and that of the chiefly soft parts , had been analysed separately .
The results showed a considerable excess of acid , especially phosphoric , in the ash of the non-bony portions ; presumably , in part at any rate , due to the oxidation of phosphorus in the incineration .
In further reference to the point in question , it may be stated that although the oxen and sheep show a higher percentage of total nitrogenous substance than the pigs , yet the amount of pure ash yielded from the non-bony parts is higher in proportion to that from the bones in the case of the pigs than in that of the ruminants .
Comparing the percentage composition of the ashes of the entire bodies of the different animals , the chief points of distinction were that \#151 ; in the ash of the pigs there is a lower percentage of lime , and a higher percentage of potash and soda , than in the corresponding ash of the ruminants ; there is a somewhat higher percentage of phosphoric acid in the ash of the pigs and of the oxen than in that of the sheep ; and there is a higher percentage of sulphuric acid ( and somewhat of chlorine also ) in the ash of the pigs than in that of the other animals .
A table showing the quantities of total ash , and of each individual mineral constituent , in each of the ten animals analysed was given .
Not much stress was laid on the amounts in the particular animals Composition of Animal Food .
[ June 21 , analysed ; as the actual weights and condition of animals coming under similar designations may vary considerably .
It was of more interest to consider the amounts of the mineral constituents in carcass parts , in offal parts , and in all parts , per 1,000 lbs fasted live-weight , of each description of animal .
It was shown that a given live-weight of oxen carried off much more mineral matter than the same weight of sheep , and a given weight of sheep much more than the same weight of pigs .
With each description of animal the amounts of phosphoric acid , lime , and magnesia , are less in a given live-weight of the fatter than of the comparable leaner individuals .
Of both potash and soda , again , the quantity is less in a given live-weight of the fatter animals .
The same may he said of the sulphuric acid and the chlorine ; in fact , in a greater or less degree , of every one of the mineral constituents .
It was estimated that the loss to the farm of mineral constituents by the production and sale of mere fattening increase was very small .
It was greater of course in the case of growing than of only fattening animals .
In illustration , the amounts of some of the most important mineral constituents removed annually from an acre of fair average pasture and arable land in various products were compared .
Such estimates could obviously be only approximate , and the quantities will vary considerably .
With this reservation , it may be stated that , of phosphoric acid , an acre would lose more in milk , and four or five times as much in wheat or barley grain , or in hay , as in the fattening increase of oxen or sheep .
Of lime , the land would lose about twice as much in the animal increase as in milk , or in wheat or barley grain ; but perhaps not more than one-tenth as much as in hay .
Of potash , again , an acre would yield only a fraction of a pound in animal increase , six or eight times as much in milk , twenty or thirty times as much in wheat or barley grain , and more than 100 times as much in hay .
From the point of view of the physiologist , it would doubtless have been desirable that the selection of parts for the preparation and analysis of the ash should have been different , and more detailed .
The agricultural aspects of the subject had , however , necessarily influenced the course of the inquiry ; and the extent of the essential work had enforced the limitation which had been adopted .
The results must be accepted as a substantial contribution to the chemical statistics of the feeding of the animals of the farm for human food .

