1872 .
] On a new Method for producing Amides and Nitriles .
61 Further , from a short notice published some years ago by Mr. Perkin* , safranine appears to be a by-product in the preparation of mauveine .
Eelations such as suggested by the above formulae must , however , be received with great caution .
The violet colouring-matter derived from safranine by phenylation has not as yet been further characterized .
No great stress can be laid on the similar colour-reactions with acids exhibited by both bases , since the methylated rosanilines , on treatment with acids , also become first blue and then green .
Moreover it is doubtful whether the base obtained by Mr. Perkin as a secondary product in the manufacture of mauveine really is the same safranine which we have investigated , inasmuch as some preliminary analyses have led him to a very different composition , which appears to be expressed by the formula c18h18n4 .
Finally , the composition of mauveine itself cannot be looked upon as established above all question ; at least Mr. Perkin + seems still to hesitate between the formula c26h24n4 , which appears to result from more recent experiments , and the formula c27h24n4 , previously announced by him .
The relations here pointed out are , however , well worthy of a thorough experimental investigation .
As we intend to continue this inquiry , an opportunity may present itself for their further elucidation .
IY .
" New Method for producing Amides and Nitriles .
" By E. A. Letts , Berlin University Laboratory .
Communicated by A. W. Hofmann , F.B.S. Received August 15 , 1872 .
Some time since Professor HofmannJ showed that phenyl mustard-oil , when acted on by acetic acid under pressure , is converted into phenyl-diacetamide , carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen being separated .
^Hi}n+2(C , H , O.OH)=(\#163 ; ."-ox } N+C01+Hs8 .
Bearing this reaction in mind , the question arose as to how the metallic sulphocyanates would behave under similar circumstances ; at Professor Hofmann 's suggestion I have submitted this question to an experimental investigation .
Action of Acetic Acid on Potassium Supposing the potassium salt of sulphocyanic acid to undergo a change * Perkin , Proc. R. Inst , of Great Britain , vol. v. p. 572 .
t Perkin , loc. cit. J Hofmann , Berichte d. Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
1870 .
Mr. E. A. Letts on a new Method [ Dec. 5 , analogous to that observed with the phenyl mustard-oil , it was to be expected that 1 molecule of this body would react with 3 molecules of acetic acid to produce 1 molecule of potassium acetate and 1 molecule of diacetamide , carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen being evolved .
KCNS+3(Ca H3 O. OH)=Ca H3 O .
OK+(C3 H3 0)aHN+COa+Ha S. The reaction , however , takes a different course .
In my first experiments the acetic acid was allowed to react on the sulphocyanate under pressure ; but it soon became evident that this was unnecessary , simple digestion of the two bodies in a flask provided with an upright condenser being amply sufficient .
The powdered salt dissolves readily in the boiling acid , and an immediate and copious disengagement of gas ensues , in which carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen may be readily recognized .
Considerable time , however , elapses before the sulphocyanate is completely decomposed , some three or four days being required for a mixture of 100 grms. of potassium sulphocyanate and 180 grms. of acetic acid .
At the end of this time the products of the reaction were submitted to distillation and commenced boiling at 170'\#151 ; 180 ' ; the thermometer , however , rose rapidly to 216 ' ; and between this temperature and 220 ' the distillate solidified in the receiver to a radiating crystalline mass , which analysis showed to be pure acetamide* .
Above 220 ' nothing further distilled , the residue in the retort consisting wholly of potassium acetate .
In what manner had acetamide been formed , instead of diacetamide expected in the reaction ?
It appeared not unlikely that the acetic acid employed contained some water , and that the diacetamide produced in the first instance was thus converted into the monocompound\#151 ; ( '2 ')21 N+Ha 0=Ca H3 O. OH+'2 h3 ' } N. To remove any water which might possibly have been present , the acetic acid was treated with phosphoric anhydride , and the experiment with the sulphocyanate repeated ; but even now acetamide was exclusively obtained .
On submitting , however , the gases evolved during the reaction to a closer examination , the formation of acetamide became at once intelligible .
It was found that a large proportion of these consisted of carbonic oxysulphide ( COS ) .
To prove the presence of this compound , it was only necessary to pass the evolved gases through a bottle containing a slightly acid solution of lead , by which the sulphuretted hydrogen was retained : thus purified , they produced no further precipitate when passed through a second bottle containing the same solution ; but precipitation at once took place if this were rendered alkaline by soda or ammonia .
* The liquid products passing over before 216 ' yield considerable quantities of the amide on fractionation ; the same remark applies to the other experiments with the fatty acids to bo presently described .
1872 .
] for producing Amides and .
This is the characteristic behaviour of carbonic oxysulphide , which was further identified by its odour , great density , and inflammability .
The principal reaction that takes place when acetic acid is treated with potassium sulphocyanate accordingly is as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) KCNS + C2 H3 O. OH=C2 H3 O. OK+HCNS , ( 2 ) HCNS + C2 H3 O .
OH=C2 Hs O. NH2 + COS. The sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic anhydride , produced simultaneously with the carbonic oxysulphide , are the complements of a second reaction , the principal product of which I have no doubt is acetonitrile ; HCNS -f C2 H3 O. OH= C2 H3 N + H2 S + C02 .
I must remark , however , that I have not actually proved the formation of this body by experiment .
My investigations in the acetic series were completed before this phase of the reaction was thoroughly understood ; and thus probably , owing to its low boiling-point ( 77 ' ) , the acetonitrile had been carried off with the stream of disengaged gases , and had escaped detection .
I have not repeated the experiment , because in other series it has been easy to demonstrate the formation of the nitrile .
Action of Isobutyric Acid on Potassium , Sulphocyanate .
If potassium sulphocyanate be heated with isobutyric acid ( which may now be readily obtained in a state of purity by oxidation of isobutylic alcohol separated from fusel-oil ) , the salt melts under the acid to an oily layer , from the surface of which bubbles of gas are plentifully disengaged , consisting , as in the preceding case , of carbonic oxysulphide , carbonic anhydride , and sulphuretted hydrogen .
In consequence of the higher boiling-point of isobutyric acid ( 154 ' ) , the reaction proceeds more rapidly than with acetic acid .
If the mixture be submitted to distillation when all disengagement of gas has ceased , it begins boiling a few degrees above 100 ' , the thermometer rapidly rising to 216 ' ; during this time an aromatic liquid passes over , possessing the odour of butyric acid .
Between 216 ' and 220 ' the thermometer remains tolerably stationary , the distillate solidifying in the receiver to a white crystalline mass .
On fractionating the liquid portion passing over before 200 ' , no product can be obtained showing a constant boiling-point ; but on treating it with a solution of caustic soda , an oily aromatic liquid of characteristic odour floats on the surface , which , separated by a tap-funnel and dried over calcium chloride , boils constantly between 107 ' and 108 ' .
Its composition and reactions characterize this substance as isobutyronitrile : H-C=(CH3)2 [ Dec. 5 , Mr. E. A. Letts a new Method c ... .
48 Theory .
69-56 Experiment .
68-93 ^4 H . . . .
... . .
7 10-14 10-53 **7 N . . .
- ... ... 14 20-30 69 100-00 Boiled for some time with an alkali , this nitrile is converted into isobutyric add and ammonia .
The complementary products attending the production of this body are carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen , the copious evolution of which has been already mentioned : HCNS + C4H70.0H=C4H7N + C02+H2S .
Isobutyronitrile has been prepared by Morkownikoff * .
He obtained it by treating isopropyl iodide with cyanide of potassium ; but probably not in a state of purity , as he gives 80 ' as its boiling-point , whereas 107-108 ' ( the number obtained by myself ) approaches more closely that observed for the normal butyronitrile ( 114 ' ) .
The crystalline substance before described as passing over between 216 ' and 220 ' is the amide of isobutyric acid : C4H9NO = '*H7^ }n .
The analysis gave ' Theory .
Experiment .
o ... ... ... ... ..'..-48 55-17 54-86 H9 ... ... ... ... .
9 10-35 10-45 n\ ... ... ... ... . .
14 16-09 ------O ... ... ... ... ... .
16 18-39 Isobutyramide forms a white crystalline mass of pleasant aromatic odour ; it fuses between 100 ' and 102 ' , and when heated somewhat above this temperature , but far short of its boiling-point , sublimes in beautiful iridescent laminae .
It boils between 216 ' and 220 ' , and distils without the slightest decomposition .
It dissolves readily in water and alcohol , and slightly in ether .
Isobutyramide is the principal product of the action of isobutyric acid on potassium sulphocyanate : HCNS+C4H7O.OH=C*H7\#163 ; |n + cos. 200 grms. of the acid yielded 60 grms. pure amide .
H-C==(CH3)2 Isobutyramide , 1 \gt ; 0=C-N=H2 is distinguished from the normal amide , H2=C - CHa-OH3 * I o=c-n=h2 * Morkownikoff , Jahresb .
xviii .
318 .
1872 .
] for producing Amides and Niti'iles .
65 by its lower melting-point .
The isocompound fuses between 100 ' and 102 ' , whereas the normal butyramide melts at 115 ' .
The boiling-point is much the same for both* .
Action of Valeric Acid on Potassium In this instance , too , the reaction proceeds according to the two equations\#151 ; HCNS-f Cg H9 O.OH=Cs Ha N+ C02+H2 S , HCNS+C6 H9 0 .
OH=Cs ^ 0 | N + COS. The separation and purification of the valeronitrile and valeramide are similar in all respects to those employed for the corresponding compounds in the butyric series .
Valerouitrile , already investigated by other chemists , boils between 125 ' and 128 ' .
By treatment with fuming nitric acid , it is converted into a crystalline substance ( perhaps C6 Hs ( No )N ) , which I have not as yet been able to examine further .
Valeramide closely resembles isobutyramide .
It is a white crystalline body of pleasant aromatic odour , recalling that of valerian-root : it is soluble in water , alcohol , and ether ; in the last-mentioned liquid much more so than isobutyramide .
From hot water it crystallizes in large right-angled but very thin plates .
Valeramide fuses between 125 ' and 128 ' , and sublimes , in the same manner as isobutyramide , below its boiling-point , which lies between 230 ' and 232 ' .
It distils without decomposition .
Action of Benzoic Acid on Potassium The aromatic acids of the C " H(2n_8)02 series act in an analogous manner on potassium sulphocyanate , with the difference , however , that here nearly exclusively the nitrile is formed .
The production of amide is so insignificant as to be scarcely recognizable .
The reaction with benzoic acid takes place with particular facility , according to the equation HCNS + C7 Hs O. OH=C71I3 N + C02+II2 S. 2 mols .
benzoic acid and 1 mol .
potassium sulphocyanate ( both in a perfectly dry condition ) are placed in a retort , to the mouth of which a long wide tube is attached to serve as condenser .
The apparatus thus arranged is placed vertically , and heated either in a paraffin-bath or ovei the naked flame .
Both bodies melt , forming two layers , of which benzoic acid is the lower one .
At 190 ' the reaction commences , carbonic anhydride and sulphuretted hydrogen being evolved .
At a higher temperature the mixture enters into ebullition , and in about half an hour is converted into a solid mass .
The retort is now reversed , and the contents * It is remarkable that acetamide , butyramide , and isobutyramide all have nearly the same boiling-point , namely 216'-220 ' .
F 2 66 Mr. J. Stuart on Galvanomagnetic Attraction .
[ Dec. 5 , strongly heated ; they melt , boil , and yield a semisolid distillate .
The distillation is carried on as far as possible without charring the residue , which consists of potassium benzoate ( from which half the benzoic acid employed may be recovered ) .
By addition of ammonia to the semisolid distillate any benzoic acid that has passed over is retained , whilst the nitrile distils with the water , from which it is afterwards separated , dried , and redistilled .
A roughly carried out experiment yielded 50 per cent , of the theoretical quantity of nitrile in a perfectly pure condition ; the loss owing to secondary reactions is amply compensated by the ease and rapidity of the operation .
Action of Cuminic Acid on Potassium Suljphocyanate .
An experiment with cuminic acid yielded very satisfactory results : cumonitrile was obtained in about the same proportions as the benzo-nitrile .
The temperature at which the reaction commenced was here about 210 ' ; the nitrile was purified as in the preceding case .
Finally , an experiment was made with cinnamic-acid ; but although sulphuretted hydrogen was evolved , and the reaction appeared to proceed exactly as in the foregoing cases , no cinnamonitrile was obtained in the liquid disillate .
The cinnamic acid seemed to be decomposed into carbonic anhydride and cinnamol before being acted upon by the sulphocyanic acid .
The ease with which nitriles and amides are obtained in this manner , both in the aromatic and fatty series , induces me to hope that the new method may be of use in many cases , and perhaps , by its application to other series , give rise to bodies hitherto uninvestigated .
The tediousness of preparing the acid chloride and subsequent treatment with ammonia ( for the amide ) , or of the amide with phosphoric anhydride ( for the nitrile ) , in the ordinary method for producing these nitrogen compounds , is here replaced by simple digestion of the acid with sulphocyanate of potassium , bodies generally readily procurable .
V. " Investigation of the Attraction of a Galvanic Goil on a small Magnetic Mass .
" By James Stuart , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by the President .
Received July 26 , 1872 .
From investigations given by Ampere , we can deduce an expression for the potential IT at an external point Q of a closed circular galvanic current carried by a wire of indefinitely small section .
Ret a be the radius of the circle ; let the distance of Q from C , the centre of the circle , be r ; and let the line C Q make an angle 0 with the normal to the plane of the circle .
Then it can be shown that when r is less than a ,

