A short Account of some Observations made with Chronometers , in two Expeditions sent out by the Admiralty , at the recommendation of the Board of Longitude , for ascertaining the Longitude of Madeira and of Falmouth .
In a Letter to Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. and Secretary to the Board of Longitude .
By Dr. John Lewis Tiarks .
Read April 29 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 360 .
] Dr. Tiarks was sent to Madeira in the year 1822 with 15 chronometers , of which the rates had principally been ascertained in the Royal Observatory of Greenwich ; he touched at Falmouth both in going out and returning ; and having again ascertained the rates of his time-keepers , he was thus enabled to obtain two distinct determinations of the longitude of Falmouth , which differed about four seconds of time from that which had been inferred from the Trrigonometrical Survey of Great Britain .
It became therefore desirable that some further operations should be undertaken for the removal or elucidation of this discordance ; and the following year a similar method was adopted with 25 chronometers , for determining the difference of longitude between Falmouth and Dover ; this latter station having been chosen as easy of access , and as being perfectly determined ; and the computations were made by interpolation , without employing any other rates for the chronometers than those which were observed in the different trips while they were actually on board the ship ; and latterly , when Dover Roads became unsafe , the operations were limited to the distance from Portsmouth to Falmouth : thus , between the months of July and September , the observations were made three times at Dover , four times at Falmouth , and three times at Portsmouth ; and the comparison of their results affords a correction of five seconds of time for the difference of longitude of Dover and Falmouth , and of three for the difference of Falmouth and Portsmouth , agreeing completely with the error of four seconds , attributed from the observations of the preceding year to the difference of longitude of Falmouth and Greenwich .
Hence Dr. Tiarks thinks it fair to conclude that the diameter of the parallel circle , in which the longitude is measured , has in the survey been taken somewhat too great , and consequently the earth 's ellipticity greater than the truth .
He remarks that the measurement of the spheroidal triangle concerned , determines only the actual flatness of the part of the earth 's surface on which it is situated , and not the actual magnitude of the whole parallel , unless its curvature be supposed perfectly uniform , which we cannot assume with confidence ; while on the other hand , if we compute the ellipticity from the result of the chronometrical determination , it becomes one 314th instead of one 150th , and agrees with the most accurate measurements obtained from different principles .
The longitude of Falmouth is finally determined to be 20 " 1i1 of time , and that of the British Consul 's garden at Funchal , 11 7m 39s W. of Greenwich .

