2 .
" On Fissiparous Generation : " by Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. L. and Ed. The author observes that the blood-corpuscle and the germinal vesicle resemble one another in the circumstance of an orifice existing in the centre of the parietal nucleus of both .
He pursues the analogy still farther , conceiving that as a substance of some sort is introduced into the ovum through its orifice , which the author terms the point of fecundation , so the corpuscles of the blood may undergo a sort of fecundation through their corresponding orifice ; and also that the blood-corpuscle , like the germinal vesicle , is pro ?
pagated by self-division of its nucleus ; a mode of propagation which he believes to be common to cells in general .
The nucleus of the germinal vesicle , or original parent cell of the ovum , gives origin , by self-division , to two young persistent cells , endowed with qualities resulting from the fecundation of the parent cell ; these two cells being formed by assimilation , out of a great number of minuter cells which had been previously formed .
This account of the process , which takes place in the reproduction of the entire organism , explains , according to Dr. Barry , the mysterious reappearance of the qualities of both parents in the offspring .
Certain nuclei , which the author has delineated in former papers as being contained within and among the fibres of the tissues , he conceives to be , in like manner , centres of assimilation , from observing that they present the same sort of orifice , that they are repro ?
duced by self-division , and that they are derived from the original cells of development ; that is , from the nuclei of the corpuscles of the blood .
He considers that assimilation of the substance introduced into the parietal nucleus of the cell is part of the process which propagates the cell ; that the mode of reproduction of cells is essentially fissiparous , and that the process of assimilation prepares them for being cleft .
A pellucid point is described by the author as being " contained in a certain part of the cell-wall , and as representing the situation of a highly pellucid substance , originally having little if any colour .
" This substance , which he considers as being primogenital and formative , he denominates hyaline , and ascribes to it the following properties .
It appropriates to itself new matter , thus becoming enlarged ; then divides and subdivides into globules , each of which passes through changes of the same kind .
Under certain circumstances , it exhibits a contractile power , and performs the motions called molecidar .
It is the seat of fecundation , and it is by its successive divisions that properties descend from cell to cell , new properties being continually acquired as new influences are applied ; but the original constitution of the hyaline not being lost .
The main purpose for which cells are formed is to reproduce the hyaline ; and this they do by effecting the assimilation which prepares it to divide ; such division being thus the essential part of fissiparous generation .
The remaining part of the paper is occupied with a detailed account of these processes as they occur in the development of the ovum , and also in the changes exhibited by the corpuscles of the blood , in which fissiparous reproduction also takes place , and the red blood-discs are converted into fibrin , and thus give origin to the various tissues of the organs .
The same theory of fissiparous reproduction he also applies to the formation of the muscular fibre , in connexion with his belief that it is composed of a double spiral filament .
Contractile cilia , he supposes , are also formed by the elongation of nuclei , the filaments proceeding from them in opposite directions .
The author considers , lastly , the subject of the fissipa ?
rous reproduction of the Infusoria , and particularly of the Volvox globator , the Chlamido-monas , Haccillaria , Gonium , and the Monadina in general ; and applies the same theory to gemmiparous repro ?
duction , and to the so-called spontaneous generation of infusoria and parasitic entozoa .

