XX .
An Account of the Trigonometrical Survey , carried onin the rears 1797 , 1o798 , and 1799 , by Order of Marquis Cornwallis , Master-General-of the Ordnance .
By Capain William Mudge , of the Royal Artillery , F.f R. S. Communicated by hIs Grace the Duke of Richmond , , F. R. S. Read July A , 1800 .
INTRODUCTIONW~ HAVING interspersed in the following Paper , with as much attention to brevity as the subject admits , every intelligence relating to the Trigonometrical Survey , I think it unnecessary to swell the bulk of the communication , bygiving a long prefatory account of its progress since the year i 796 .
The contents of the work now meeting the.public eye , are important and numerous : I have divided it into sections .
The first contains the calculations of the sides of the principal and secondary triangles extended over the country in 1797 , 1798 , and 1799 ; together with an account of the measurement of a new base line on Sedgemoor , and a short historical narrative of each year 's operation .
The second section contains the computed latitudes and longitudes of those places , on the western coast , intersected in 1795 and 1796 , and also , such others , since determined , as lie conveniently situated to the newly-observed meridians .
This section also contains the directions of those meridians ; one on Black Down , in Dorsetshire ; another on Butterton Hill , in Devonshire ; and another on St. Agnes Beacon , in Cornwall .
Among the contents are likewise to be numbered the bearings , distances , &amp;c. of the stations and intersected objects , from the parallels and meridians .
The third and last section contains the triangles which have been carried over Essex , the western part of Kent , and portions of the counties-joining the former , Suffolk and Hertfordshire .
It is with satisfaction I am enabled to state , that Mr. GARDNER , the chief Draftsman , with his assistants , has almost completed the Survey of this extensive tract , which , no doubt , like the map of Kent , will be given to the public : the materials for these different surveys are ample , and will be found in this section , which concludes with the altitudes of the stations and mean Refractions .
Before I had advanced far in my work , I entertained ideas of condensing all the data in my possession , and distributing'them in it ; but , when I found my paper would , in that case , be too large for the Philosophical Transactions , I desisted , contenting myself with presenting little more than a moiety : it is , even now , of inconvenient magnitude , but I could not , with propriety , still farther abridge it , for I have , in several instances , rejected important matter .
I shall , therefore , take an early opportunity of compiling a fourth account , in which will be given the latitudes and longitudes of those places , in Essex , Kent , &amp;c. found in the last section .
It is right I should observe that , knowing from experience , how liable surveyors are to mistake : the names of places and also , how utterly impracticable it is to detect errors , till the interiors of the great triangles have beenflled up , I have been cautious to give only the distances of such objects as could not be easily mistaken I do not mean to insinuate that , among So the great number now published , instances may not be found of misnomers or -even , wrong bearings ; but I rely with great confidence on their general accuracy , and particularly on those constituting the surveys of Essex and the northern shore of the Thatmes as the whole of them have been vergfed by Mr. GARDNER .
Indeed this is to be understood as holding good throughout the last section , in which are 375 triangles .
In our former accounts of this survey , we were particularly guarded in not intermixing their contents with distances determined from numerous doubtful intersections ; and experience has hitherto not detected above three or four errors arising from wrong bearings or misnomers .
Previously , indeed , to the compilation of them , a great part of the objects in Sussex , Hampshire , and the 'Isle of Wight , were verified by Mr. GARDNER , in process of an extensive survey , earned on by the order , and performed for the service , of the Board of Ordnance .
This gentleman will also have it in his power to detect any errors , if such exist , in the names of places to the westward ; as the Master General has been pleased to issue his directions for the survey of Devonshire , and as much of Somersetshire and Cornwall as will square the work .
I have mentioned , in the body of the account , that the President and Council of the Royal Society , were pleased to accede to the request made by the Honorable Board of Ordnance , to entrust to my care , the circular instrument used by .
the late Major General Roy , in ' his well known operation .
It has already been found highly useful , and will shortly prove to be still more so , as one theodolite will be employed in carrying the above orders of Marquis CORNWALLIs into effect , while the other is used in carrying a meridional line through the country ; an undertaking begun , and partly executed , Before I close this Introduction , I am to announce , that Mr. ISAAC DALBY , no longer able to endure the fatigues incident to the service , has retired from it ; and it would be a matter of injustice , if I were not to acknowledge the extent of his services , his unremitted labour , and attention .
But , whilst I lament the loss of a man so perfectly calculated to assist me in this arduous undertaking , I derive every consolation from a knowledge , founded on experience , of the talents and abilities of Mr. SIMON WOOLCOT , his successor .
SECTION FIRST .
i. Particulars relating to the Operations of the Tear 1797 .
The principal object proposed to be accomplished this year , was the determination of the directions of meridians at proper stations , in order to afford the necessary data for computing the latitudes and longitudes of places intersected in the surveys of 1795 and 1 796 .
From errors which are the result of computations made on the supposition .
of the earth 's surface being a plane , it is expedient that new directions of meridians should be observed , when the operations are extended , in eastern or western directions , over spaces of sixty miles from fixed meridians .
The distance from , Dover to the Land 's End being upwards of 3oo miles , it becomes necessary , on this principle , that four directions of meridians should be observed , ; which , , with that of Greenwich , amounts to five , dividing this space into six nearly equal parts .
Whatever be the stations farther to the westward , which offer themselves as fit places for these observations , Dunnose in the Isle of Wight presents itself as highly eligible , not only because it is removed the necessary distance from the meridian of Greenwich , but also because it commands a most extensive view of the western coast : therefore , as the direction of the meridian was observed on this station in 1793 , ( see Philosophical Transactions for 1795 , p. 517 .
) it became necessary to fix on three places only .
In the selection of these stations , it was our wish to have found such as should lie nearly in the same parallel , each intermediate one being visible from those east and west of it ; by which means , the differences of latitude between their respective parallels would be accurately determined .
When the party was at Dunnose , in the year 1793 , a hill at a very considerable distance , in a direction very nearly west , was seen just rising out of the horizon .
It then occurred to us that this spot would , at some future period , be a very proper one for a station whereon a new direction of the meridian might be observed .
Experience , in the Survey of 1795 , led us to believe this hill was actually Black Down in Dorsetshire ; therefore it was determined that our operations should commence at that station , and the event verified the truth of our suppositions .
The party took the field early in April , as observations on the Pole Star , for the purpose in question , are made with superior advantage at this season of the year , because the star comes to its greatest elongations from the meridian at those times , when the sun produces little tremor in the air , by which means , the staff to which the Pole Star is referred , in good weather , is easily perceived .
As the high land in the vicinity of Teignmouth , in Devonshire .
cuts off all view of the southern extremity of Dartmoor from Black Down , the necessary alternative was , the firing of lights on some remote station , communicating with Butterton .
Rippin Tor was quickly discovered to be the most proper spot- ; and that eminence would , in every point of view , be a most eligible one for a new direction of the meridian , if the hills in the middle of the -moor were not considerably higher .
It was , therefore , chosen only with a view of being subservient to the purpose of finding the latitude of Butterton .
In making observations on the Pole Star , the same precautions were taken to ensure accuracy , as were observed at Dunnose and Beachy Head in the year 1793 ; ( see Phil , Trans. for 1795 , p. 460 .
) I shall , therefore , not enumerate them , but content myself with observing , that no pains were spared in this performance .
From Black Down , the party removed to Butterton ; at which place but few observations were made , the weather being either tempestuous or hazy , during the greatest part of the time we were at that station : they ' were , however , made under favourable circumstances , in other respects , and are therefore likely to afford accurate results .
As in the case of Rippin Tor , with respect to Black Down , so Hensbarrow , in Cornwall , was selected as the spot for connecting St. Agnes Beacon with the station on Butterton ; for these latter are not visible from each other , the high land about St. Austle , on the northern part of which is situated Hens or Hengist barrow , being higher and intermediate .
The staff to which the lights and star were referred , was placed on a hill called Hemmerdon Ball , a secondary station in the series of 1795 .
On the ist of May , the party proceeded to St. Agnes Beacon ; at which place the observations were completed on the 8th .
The staff for connecting the observations made on the Pole Star with those made on the lights fired at Hensbarrow , was placed near Peranzabulo ; which spot is laid down in the plan , PI .
XXVIL .
After these directions of meridians were determined , we proceeded with the survey , and from St. Agnes Beacon repaired to Trevose Head , a promontory on the northern coast of Cornwall .
The ascent from the sea to the station on this headland being very gradual and unobstructed , we took the opportunity of finding its altitude by means of the transit instrument .
The levelling was begun on the goth of May , and finished the following day ; from which operation , it was found that the height of the station above low water-mark was 2 742 feet ; which is , probably , within six inches of the truth .
This base of altitude , will afford the means of computing the heights of the stations in the north of Devon , and also of verifying those in the western part of Cornwall .
( See Phil Trans. for 1797 , p. 471 .
) In giving an account of this and similar articles , it is my intention merely to set forth the order in which the different parts of the survey have been performed .
It would be prolix , and perhaps , unnecessary , to assign the reasons for the choice of each station .
In the present instance , however , it may not be -improper to observe , that a station called Black Down , near Lydford , was selected for the purpose ofcarrying distances into the north of Devon , by means of the side formed by that station and Carraton Hill .
The difficulty of running up the series of triangles from the west , ( and it might have been also added , towards the north , ) is mentioned in the account of 1797 .
A tract of country exists in Cornwall , possessing the same characteristic features with Dartmoor , and has thrown in our way equal embarrassments .
The station called Carraton Hill , is situated on its southern extremity , from which no part of the north of Cornwall can be seen : it , therefore , became expedient to erect a staff on the top of the rugged hill Brown Willy , ( a spot not accessible to the instrument , ) and afterwards to content ourselves with surveying round it .
This resolution became the more necessary , as by means of it , the triangles in the west of Devon will be hereafter connected with those in the north of Cornwall , in a shorter and more direct way than from the sides in the more southern country .
In order , therefore , to observe the staff erected on this station , the instrument was taken a second time to Bodmin Down .
The station named Cadon Barrow , near Camelford , and those on St. Stephen 's Down , near Launceston , were also visited ; at which time it was judged expedient to discontinue the operations in Devonshire .
In proceeding along the southern coast , in the years 1 795 and 1796 , with a single chain of triangles , we acted in conformity with our instructions .
It was , in many points of view , the most eligible modeof proceeding ; and particularly in thatwhichregarded an early determination of the latitudes and longitudes of the great head-lands in the channel , and also of the Scilly Isles .
When the operations above spoken of were completed , and those instructions carried into full execution , ( ample materials being provided for ascertaining the situations of every remarkable point on the English side of the channel , ) the want of a spot in the southern part of Cornwall , for the measurement of a base , was felt and regretted ; we were , therefore , unwilling to introduce errors , if any should exist , from the sides in Cornwall , into the north of Devon : our operations were consequently discontinued .
From Devonshire we proceeded to the eastward , for the purpose of carrying on a second series of triangles .
These were necessarily intended to originate from the side which connects the station on Beacon Hill , near Amesbury , with that on Wingreen Hill , near Shaftesbury .
In the month of July , the observations were completed at the station on the Mendip Hills , after which the instrument was taken to Bradley Knoll ; Dundry Beacon , near Bristol ; Lansdown and Farley Down ; the station on Lansdown being chosen rather for a secondary than a principal place of observation .
From Bradley Knoll , to which place the instrument was carried from Farley Down , we proceeded to Westbury Down , and from thence to Beacon Hill , near Amesbury ; because it was necessary that a new point on the range near Marlborough , commonly named St. Ann 's Hills , should be observed .
The station formerly chosen --at the eastern extremity of this range , and observed in 1794 , ( see Phil. Trans. 1795 , p. 471 .
) was this year found to be useless , as the high land , on the same range , prevented it from being seen at Lansdown : two others were , therefore , selected to the westward of the former , and observed from Beacon Hill ; one for the purpose of connecting with Lansdown , and a station near Symmond 's Hall , in Gloucestershire ; and the other with Inkpin Beacon .
The particular circumstances of this range , both as to situation and height , have thrown great impediments in the way of the survey , and are the means of cutting off , in a considerable degree , the connection between the southern triangles and those which have been since carried on in the midland of the kingdom .
From Amesbury the party proceeded to Inkpin Beacon , near Hungerford , where the operationsterminated .
The stations chosen and observed this year , but not visited with the instrument , were Monymoor , near Penhow the mountain Twymbawlin , near Newport ; and Scilly Point , in Glamorganshire .
These stations in South Wales will connect with three in Somersetshire , also selected this season ; one on Bleak Down , which is situated on the western extremity of the Mendip range ; a second on Brent Beacon ; and a third on the Quantock Hills .
Subsequent to the operations on Salisbury Plain , enquiries had been often made after a spot on which a third base might be measured .
Experience had almost convinced us that , if Sedgemoor were excepted , the southern part of England did not contain one of sufficient extent for a base of three miles.b Aware , therefore , of the imperfect state in which our work must rest , without a fresh base , Mr. DALBY and myself passed over into South Wales , and examined the extensive level between the newt Passage House and Cardigan .
After , however , a very diligent search , we could not find any spot , four miles in length , sufficiently unobstructed .
The advantages which the situation itself holds out , are so great , that we should not have scrupled to dispense with a desideratum , heretofore required , of the base being one continued line .
So much , however , is this flat cut up with rhynes and ditches , that we were not able to find any point from which two right lines might be measured , and so inclined to each other as to afford , by means of an including angle , a third side of five miles in length : necessity , therefore , compelled us to think of measuring a base on Sedgemoor , which we immediately examined .
That which relates to this situation , will be found in an ensuing article : it is now only necessary to observe , that we concluded the operations of 1i97 , after the practicability of measuring a base upon it had been decided in the affirmative .
all ; ART .
IIr .
Particulars relating to the Operations of the Year 1798 .
The object first attained this year , consisted in a trigonometrical survey of the counties adjacent to the northern and southern shores of the Thames .
In the last communication it will be seen , that the survey of Kent had been carried on from the sea-coast , till it reached the range which runs eastward from Wrothamn through Hollingbourn , and there terminated .
The country to the northward could not be surveyed , because the view from General Roy 's station at Wrotham is alm'ost -entirely cut off , in that direction , In order , therefore , to obtain a base for the purpose , hlen the party arrived at Wrotham , a new station was chosen , to the eastward of the former one , and the distance between them accurately measured ; by which means , together with the included angle at the old station , and the distance of it from Severndroog Tower , on Shooter 's Hill , a new distance was found , which be-e came a base for the survey proposed .
The chief draftsmen and surveyors belonging to the Drawingroom in the Tower , attended our operations in this county , and also those afterwards carried on in Essex .
It was , indeed , for their immediate service , that we renewed the survey in this quarter , as the Master-General had given directions to prepare ample ' materials for completing the map which meets the public eye with this article .
The stations in Kent , besides that of Wrotham , were Gravesend , Gad 's Hill , and the Isle of Sheppey ; those in Essex were Hadleigh , South End , and Prittlewell .
Observations made from these places afforded data for the proposed survey : after they were completed , the small circular instrument supplied the place of the great one , and was used , ,with good effect , in carrying on the subsequent operations in this quarter .
In our Paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 , an observation is made , of the necessity then existing for the measurement of a base on Salisbury Plain , in consequence of resolutions taken toinclose Sedgemoor : an act for which purpose was passed a few years ago , and partly carried into execution in 1797 .
At this time , however , King 's Sedgemnoor was only set out-into parochial allotments , as exhibited in Plate XXVIII .
accompanying this Account .
The ditches , represented by lines on this planwere generally ten feet broad , and five feet deep ; but the principal and secondary drains were much wider , the first being thirty , and the last twenty-five , feet in breadth .
The subdivisions on the Moor , or the individual allotments of it , were not traced -outin the Somerton quarter , at this time , the task being deferred till the latter part of the following year .
The measurement , therefore , of this base , in an early part of the season , became necessary , because fewer obstacles were then expected to present themselves. .
As it appeared that many instances would probably occur , in which a chain of So feet in length would be useful , if not absolutely necessary , one was provided by Mr. RAMSDEN , in the winter ; its make and form being precisely similar to those of the larger chains , used in the measurement of our former bases .
Such a chain did , indeed , prove highly serviceable in the subsequent operation as the handles of the ioo-feet chain would very often have had their places in ditches , or been so situated ontheir banks , as to , leave imperfect means of correctly placing the register heads under the handles .
The apparatus for the measurement , consisting of the tressels Aft belonging to the Royal Society , pickets , iron heads , and a new set of coffers , were sent to Somerton , after Mr. GARDNER had been furnished with the means of proceeding with the survey before spoken of .
The measurement was begun in July , and finished in August ; in the course of which , very little interruption arose from any inclemency of weather .
It is unnecessary to enter minutely into a description of the difficulties which arose from the frequent intervention of ditches ; let it suffice to observe , that , possessed of the so-feet chain , these were rendered less material than they would otherwise have been .
When we arrived at that point which ends with the 1i4th chain , an offset was taken , and 19 chains measured , in a direction perfectly parallel to that of the base , at the extremity of which we returned into the base itself , and continued the measurement .
This interruption proceeded from an accidental and unforeseen circumstance ; a great ditch having been excavated in a direction coincident with that of the base , while the measurement was going on at the upper end of it .
This , however , cannot be the means of introducing any sensible inaccuracy for , to proceed in this matter correctly , when it became necessary to take an offset , a silver wire was let fall from the register head , having a plummet , under the point of which a small dot was made , on a -stake driven firmly into the ground .
The great theodolite was then placed over the stake , and the instrument accurately adjusted over the dot .
A diaphragm , whose aperture was an inch , was then put over the object-glass of the transit telescope , which was afterwards directed towards the staff at Lugshorn Corner , and then moved round , till it exactly made a right angle with the base .
The telescope being sufficiently MDccC .
4 C depressed , a peg was driven into the ground , with its centre nearly under the cross wires ; after which , a pin was moved on the surface of the peg , as directed by a person looking through the telescope , till it came to that point at which it bisected the angle formed by the cross wires .
The measurement was then carried on , in this new direction , a space of 19 chains at the end of which , the same operations were repeated , and the old direction pursued .
It does not seem probable , that an error amounting to more than -0 of an inch , can have resulted from this procedure .
King 's Sedgemoor being sufficiently level , the base was measured horizontally ; an advantageous circumstance ; but , from the soft texture of the soil , the pickets could not be driven into the ground so firmly as to be without sorfe snmall degree of motion , in case a person stood close to them .
Therefore , those who attended the handles of the chains , either used long stools , or placed themselves so as to divide the pressure arising from the weights of their bodies equally on each side of the pickets .
The disturbances to which the register-heads were liable , did not discover themselves till a mile of the base had been measured ; and , although it became probable that small errors only had resulted from the want of those precautions we afterwards followed , yet we considered what we had done as erroneous , and recommenced the measurement , with the advantage of experience .
At present , I shall content myself with observing , that due attention was paid to all necessary minutiao in this measurement , and refer those who are desirous of being more particularly informed , to the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 , as the mode of proceeding on the present occasion was perfectly similar to that on Hounslow Heath .
After the conclusion of this operation , we proceeded to select such stations in the neighbourhood of the base , as might afford means of connecting itwith the triangles carried on in the preceding year , The two chosen for this purpose , were Dundon Beacon , and a spot near the -village of Moor Lynch ; both nearer to their respective ends of the base than we wished to have found them ; yet , as small rods of only an inch in diameter were placed on those stations , when they were observed from Dundon Beacon and Moor Lynch , and the same erected at the ends of the base , when they were observed from those statiQns , it becomes probable that very trifling errorsresulted from ' this proceeding .
The station at Ash Beacon was visited subsequent to these just spoken of , and afterwards that on the Mendip Hills , for the purpose of taking the angle between Moor Lynch and Dundon Beacon .
The operations of 1798 then terminated with a diligent search after some spot in Cornwall , for a base of only two or three miles in length : this search , however , was fruitless , asin fact we had reason to imagine it would prove to be ; but we were not willing to relinquish the hope , that a piece of ground might be discovered proper for so confined a purpose .
The contrary , however , being the case , the party returned to London in October .
ART .
IW .
Angles taken in the rear 1798 .
At Wrotham .
Station of 1787 .
Between , , Mean .
New Station and staff on Severndroog Tower 9 g4 19 30 S Station of 1798 .
Severndroog Tower and Gravesend 38,5 39C 4C '2 At Ash Beacon .
Between Mean .
Moor Lynch and Mendip Hills ^ S5629 50 1n 52 35 515 52,25 Mendip Hills and Bradley Knoll 50 8 45,25}4 , Bradley Knoll and Bull Barrow 93.38 10,5 1 13 1 2,5 Barrow and Pilsden * 83 40 3 Mintern Hill and Pilsden 49 21 35,75 39,75 f 38.125 Pilsden and Qantock Hills 5 34 40,5 } Quantock Hills and Meridip Hills 72 57 49,75 On the Mendip Hills .
Bradley Knoll and Ash Beacon 5 g8 i6 20 21,5 ( 22 24,25 J Ash Beacon and Moor Lynchl 69 z26 46,5 4925 48,2549 .
; 25 Dundon Beacon and Moor Lynch c 23 58 165 } ART .
V. Particulars relating to the Operations of the rear 1 799 .
I have shown in the preceding articles , that sufficient materials are now in my possession , for calculating the latitudes and longitudes of those places whose bearings and distances from given stations are found in the Account of 1797 .
I have also pointed out the direction which the survey has subsequently taken ; and given a short account of the measurement of a new base in Somersetshiire .
The operations of 1799 now remain to be spoken of .
In very early stages of the work , I had frequent opportunities of observing , that eminent advantages would accrue to the service , were the survey prosecuted on a more extensive scale .
The consideration of a grand instrument being laid up in the apartments of the Royal Society , suggested the propriety of obtaining it ; therefore , when my appointment to my present situation gave me the means of effecting former ideas , I lost no time in applying to the President and Council , for the loan of their large theodolite , the excellence of which had been incontestibly demonstrated by the late Major General Roy .
The distinguished services which the Royal Society have rendered this branch of the public service , leave it almost unnecessary for me to observe how readily they granted my request .
The instrument was , accordingly , put into the hands of Mr. RAMSDEN , early in the month of January , for the purpose of being examined , and also of having new microscopes fixed to it ; the former ones being much inferior , in construction , to those attached to the instrument belonging to Government .
To carry on so extensive a survey as that which is now the subject of this Paper , much consideration is necessary .
I have endeavoured to give it the best effect , both as to design , and celerity of execution .
What degree of success has attended my endeavours , the public , in possession of this Paper , can readily determine .
In the present stage of the survey , I have been sufficiently impressed with just ideas , as to the importance of the task , and responsibility of my situation .
The difficulties which start up , in prosecuting a survey of this kind , become more numerous as it becomes more extensive .
In the earliest part of it , when few objects only were in view , speedy execution followed the design ; but , circumstances now require every exertion , as the triangles are branched out into several parts of the kingdom .
Were the length of a degree of the meridian , in these latitudes , accurately known , the most eligible method of carrying on the survey would be , that of working between any two determined parallels of latitude , till the space between them was completed .
Yet this mode would manifestly be subject to some slight innovations , from the necessity of measuring bases in certain stages of the work : it would be right , however , to adopt the principle for general practice .
Under this idea , it would have been proper to have commenced the operations of this year iny Somnersetshire , and to have carried on the triangles from the neighbourhood of the new base into the north of Devon .
It is mentioned in one of the former Accounts , that a zenith sector was formerly bespoken of Mr. RAMSDEN , by his Grace the Duke of RICHMOND , for the purpose of aiding the design of measuring the length of a degree of latitude in this country .
The pressure of other business caused Mr. RAMSDEN to lay aside this instrument , after he had considerably advanced in its construction .
The real necessity , however , for our being supplied with an instrument of this descriplion being made known to him , he resolved to take it in hand again ) and complete it .
Relying on the strength of his assurances to this effect , I determined to relinquish the intention of proceeding to the westward ; and resolved to commence this year 's operations , with running up a series of triangles along the meridian of Blenheim .
As it is probable my next communication will contain the result of this interesting part of the survey , I shall now confine myself to such particulars as relate to the subject under consideration .
In a former article , I have observed , that the chief Drafts man , Mr. GARDNER , has been furnished with materials for surveying the northern shore of the Thames , and the north of Kent : these proved ample , as the map , thence compiled , will sufficiently demonstrate .
As the Master-General issued directions , at this time , to survey Essex , and parts of the adjoining counties , in the same manner , and for the same purpose , as Kent has been , I xvas obliged to suspend , for a short time , my intention of proceeding with the measurement of a meridional degree , and to devise the best -means for carrying his Lordship 's instructions into execution .
For this purpose , therefore , before any stations were chosen in Essex , the county was very minutely examined ; when it ape peared , that insuperable difficulties would occur , if the survey were prosecuted with the large theodolite only .
The range commencing at Havering Bower , and running to Gallywide Common , cuts off a regular communication between the stations subsequently chosen in the southern and northern parts of Essex .
The difficulty resulting from ' this circumstance , was made still greater , from the want of success in our endeavours to find one spot on this range , proper for-a station .
The eastern part was , in some degree , found more favourable ; but it was discovered that , even here , the small instrument must frequently be used as a substitute for the large one .
Under these disadvantages , the survey commenced in March ; the large theodolite being taken to a station on Hampstead Heath .
The base chosen for carrying on the distances towards the north , was that constituted by Severndroog Tower on : Shooter 's Hill and the new station on Hampstead Heath ; which distance , although it has not , perhaps , been obtained so correctly-as many others , et is determined with sufficient accuracy for the matter in , hand .
When the observations were made on Severndroog Tower , in the year 1787 , the angle between Hanger Hill Tower and the -cross on the dome of St. Paul 's was taken : this was now made use of , in order to get the angle between Hanger Hill Tower and Hampstead Heath ; , because the former station could not be discovered , on account of the wind blowing the thick and darkened atmosphere of London between the stations , when the instrument this year was carried to Shooter 's Hill .
For the purpose of connecting the eastern and western triangleswith each other , a station was chosen on Southweald Tower , accessible only to the small instrument .
Brentwood Spire was also found to be conveniently situated for carrying on the distances : this will be readily perceived by the plan .
Langdon Hill was also selected ; which , with the former station at Gravesend , were to become the means of connecting the triangles .
A station on Epping Forest was judged necessary ; but no spot could be found fit for general purposes , the view towards the-north being confined .
One was , however , fixed on , called Highbeech , from which a high building near Berkhamstead was found to be visible , by means of which , the distances in the north of Essex could be verified , as the station on the top of it would connect with Bushy Heath , near Watford , and a point on the elevated range near Dunstable .
From Hampstead , the instrument and portable scaffold were carried to Langdon Hill , and from thence to Triptree Heath , near Maiden- ; from whence the party repaired to Highbeech , leaving the remainder of the county to be surveyed with the small circular instrument ; which seems to have been done with considerable , accuracy .
After the necessary observations were made at Highbeech , I 4D9 I proceeded to Sh1otover Hill , in Oxfordshire ; and , before May elapsed had reconnoitred the country .
As the distance between Inkpin Hill and Highclere , appeared to be shorter than was necessary for a base on which the northern triangles were to rest , it became certain , that their sides would depend con the base oji Hounslow Heath .
The only means by which the series now proposed to be carried westwards , ( for the double purpose of forwarding the survey , and also of finding a portion of the meridional arc , ) could be properly connected with the triangles in the neighbourhood of Salisbury Plain , was the side just spoken of for the high land in the vicinity of Calne , intercepted the view of the stations on the Marlborough range , from White Horse Hill .
In order , however , to .
make a connection , although imperfect , an intermediate station was chosen on this high intercepting land .
When .
the ground about Nettlebed was formerly examined by us , it appeared difficult to carry on the triangles from Bagshot Heath towards the northward ; because no spot could be found near the former , from which the Chiltern range could be seen .
I now , therefore , departed from the usual practice of choosing stations on the ground , and selected Pen Church Tower ; by means of which , Ifound a connection might be made between the triangles carried round the Chiltern range , from White Horse Hill and Nuffield , with those in Hertfordshire .
At Shotover Hill the party separated , each having its instrument .
I shall close this article , without entering minutely into the reasons which operated with me for the choice of all the stations selected this year .
I shall content myself with enumerating thenames of thestationsvisitedand observed , and menitioning that Shotover Hill and Cumner Hill , in Oxfordshire , were selected principally with a view of ascertaining the situations of the Between @ ' Mean .
Hampstead Heath and Hanger Hill Tower -a * 45 25 $1 5I,5 1s,75 On Bushy Heath .
Wendover and Kinsworth 38 22 S }675 On Bagshot Heath .
Station of 1794 .
Highclere and Nuffield 5532 25,5 1 25,75 &gt; z6 26,75 J Nufe~ld and Pen Tower _ 48 47 1I 11 Zv75 1 , I265 12,75 J Pen Tower and St. Ann 's Hill 70 30 37,251 39 , 39 ; 2 ; ART .
7 .
Situations of the Stations .
Trevose Head .
The station on this-point of land , which is about four miles from Padstow , in Cornwall , is situated on the southern part of it , and is about forty feet from the declivity .
The ground seems a little , higher thanany other part of the Head .
Cadon Barrow .
The station is Qn the contre of the Barrow ; which is a very remarkable one , and well known about the country .
It is about two miles from Tintagel , being in a field lying south of the road leading from that town to Camelford .
Brown Willy .
The staff is erected on the highest part of this mountain , which is about nine miles southward of Camelford .
St. Stephen 's Down .
The station is about 50 feet from the eastern part of the building erected on this Down .
-It lies south. .
west frQm the corner of it , and about twenty feet from the road .
Mndi:p .
The station is in a field on the top of the down , being about two miles north of Shepton Mallet .
The fieldd is next to the road leading from that place to Bristol , and lies west of it : it is also north of the road which goes from Wells to Frome .
This road crosses the former at right angles .
The station is 2o feet north of the southern hedge , and about 0oo from the eastern one .
The ground round the station is rather higher than any other part of the field .
Dundry .
The station is on the down , close to , but west of , the town so called .
Thedown is full of holes and pits , from which stones have been taken for the purposes of building .
The station , jhowever , may easily be found , as it is situated on a rising which has the appearance of having been a barrow .
Lansdown .
This place is well known , and near Bath .
The station is on the highest partof the broken ground called CROMWELL'S Camp , which is near Mr. GRANVILLE'S monument .
Farley Down .
Thestation on this Down is a feet north of the stone-wall , and -about i,5o feet eastwardof the -plantation .
Bradley Knoll .
This is a remarkable hill , very near Maiden Bradley .
The highest part of the hill is towards the west , on which there is a small ring , exhibiting an appearance of a ruined plantation .
The station is a few feet to the northward of this ring .
Westbury Down. .
There are no objects onthis Down , of any kind .
; therefore ?
the station cannot be found from measurements .
It is , however , just above the White horse cut out in the side of the hill .
Ash Beacon .
This eminence is about four miles north of Sher. .
borne : on the top of it there is a small plantation , round which is a circular wall .
The station is 8s feet east of it .
PIundon Beacon .
This is an insulated hill , at the eastern extrenity of King 's Sedgemoor ; upon it are the remains of a barrow , probably the site of the ancient beacon .
The station is about 4 feet eastward of the small cavity in the centre of it .
Lygshorn Corner , the eastern extremity of Kings Sedgemoor .
There is a small rivulet , which separates the moor front the cubtivated ground on the Somerton side , and , close to a_ particular part of it , is a passage called Somerton Gate .
About a quarter of a mile'eastward of this entrance , and in the second field , north of the stream , is the station called Lushorn -crner , one of the ends of the base .
The spot is 5 feet from the ditch , and i 9 , from the gateway .
Th erewere but three fields in this part of the moor , at the time the base was measured .
Greylock 's Foss .
This-is towards the western extremity of the moor : a causeway leads from Middlezoyto Greinton qver it .
In the'second field from the bridge , near the latter , is the other extremity of the base .
The station is about ' io feet from the ditch , running parallel to the Foss , and is ' in the angle formed by the ditch contiguous to the road anda the second ditch north of the drain .
Nuffield .
The station is in the field opposite to the church : it is in the south-west corner of it i4 feet from the stile , and Io feet from the hedge .
Scutchamfly .
A very remarkable Barrow , on the Berkshire downs , situated near Little Hendred .
The station is on the south-west part of it , 'and can easily be found , .
White Horse Hill .
This is -a well known eminence in Berkshire .
The station is on the eastern side of the Saxon work , and on the top of the small parapet surrounding the ditch .
Shotover Hill , near Oxford .
The station is ido feet from the hedge eastward of it , and 6o feet from that southward of it ; but , when the traces of our former operations are obliterated , it will be .
difficult to recover this station .
Stow on the Wold .
The station bearing thisl name , is in a field 2 miles eastward of the town : it lies on the north side of the road leading from Stow to Burford , and may be easily distinguished , being that particular field which affords the most commanding view .
The station is 32 feet west of the corner of the hedge which forms a right angle with another abruptly running out : it is also 279 feet from theridge which divides the field .
Broadway .
Beacon .
This is a very high and remarkable spot , near the village of Broadway , in -Gloucestershire .
The station is about 20 feet south-east of the foundation of a building proposed to be erected by the Earl of COVENTRY .
Corley , a village in Warwickshire .
The station is in the second field eastward of the church , being 1So feet from the eastern hedge , and 230 feet from the stilein the corner of it , Epwell , a village in Oxfordshire .
The station is on the apex of the hill , and may easily be found , by measuring 17 feet from the stile , and 14 , feet from the hedge which runs across the hill .
N. B. The station is west of the hedge .
Brill on the Hill , Buckinghamshire , The station is on Muzzle Hill , near the town .
There is but one field on this hill:_ it is on the highest part of it .
The station is situated in the centre of the -field , and in the middle of -a rising , once the site of a windmill .
Arbury Hill .
This hill is still surrounded with the remains of an ancient fortification .
The station , is on the north-west corner of it , and near the brow , but cannot be easily found , from the want of proper objects to which measurements may be made .
Wendover , Buckinghamshire .
The station is on the down south of the town , and contiguous to the village of Ellesborough .
A road from Wendover , to Sir JOHN RUSSELL'S seat ; Checquers , runs over the down : but , as there are no , marks on it , its precise situation cannot be easily poited outby measurement It may , however , be observed , tha it is i by feet southwards , from the decayed parapet-on the top of the hill .
Quainton , Buckinghaamshire .
The station is on the high ground , north of this town .
It cannot very easily be found , because the hill is destitute of objects ; yet it may ; probably , be discovered , by looking for it on the green ridge which divides the land : it is in the middle of that boundary , and about 200 feet westward of the pathway .
Kinswortb , a village near Dunstable .
The station is on the summit of a hill , about half a mile north of the village .
A hedge runs across the hill , from which the station is 4o feet northwest : it is likewise close to the road .
Lillyboe , Hertfordshire .
The station is on a commanding eminence , having the Icknield way at the foot of it .
There are no objects one this hill , therefore the precise situation cannot be pointed out by means of measurement : it is towards the northwest corner of the hill .
Stanmore .
This station is on the southern extremity of the range above the town : it is near the trees5 and a little to the westward of the broken ground .
Bushy Heath , near Stanmore , The station cannot be easily found : it is about iooo feet from the road , but there are no objects near enough to determine it by measurement .
Wrotham .
This station is 205 ?
feet north-east of the old station : it may be easily found , with the assistance of a theodo- ' lite , ) Sevemndroog Tower making an angle of 94 19 ' with the new station .
Gravesend .
The station ison-Windmill 111 , and-on thewestern side of it , : it is about So feet south of the stile , and near the brow .
Gad 's Hill , Kent , The station is very easily found , being in the middle of thie tumulus .
Sheppey , Isle of .
The station is on the bare hill , westward of , and contiguous to , the high range : it cannot be found through neans of measurement .
Ha nipstead .
The station is on the heath , but cannot easily be found , on account of the rugged and broken ground which surrounds it : it is situated 40 feet from the road , and among the sand holes .
Langdon Hill , Essex .
The station is in the middle of the field on the top of this hill : it is about 400 feet from either of the stiles .
Hadleigb .
The station is on a remarkable hill , in shape very -like a barrow , and is about a mile south-west of the town .
Sout/ end .
The station is in the second field westward from the terrace : it cannot be-easily found .
Interior Stations .
Hope 's Nose , the north projecting point of Torbay .
The only spot fit for a station in this part is the one chosen : it can easily be found , for it is the high and bare rising , just above the Nose .
Ball 's Obelisk .
This object is on the eastern part of Great Haldon , in Devonshire .
The station can be easily found , for it is close to the gate of the enclosure , and on the only spot not covered with heath .
Evercrutch , in Somersetshire .
The hill on which the station is , commands an extensive view , and is not far from the town of Evercrutch .
-Bruton is also near it .
The station is in the middle of the flat place on the top of the hill .
Crouch Hill , near Banbury , in Oxfordshire .
The hill is well known , and the station easily found ; &lt; for the apex of the hill appears as if it were truncated , and in the middle of the smooth part is the station .
Cumner Hill , near Oxford .
The station is about 13o feet westward from the centre of the clump of trees .
Whiteham Hill , Oxfordshire .
There are a few trees contiguous to the station , which bear eastward from it , and are about 8o feet distant .
The station is on the highest and smoothest part of the hill .
Lidling/ on , a village near Ampthill in Bedfordshire .
This station can easily be found , for a tumulus , whose centre is the station , has been erected , to render it conspicuous .
Trusler Hill , in Woburn Park .
The station is on a tumulu &amp; likewise ; and can be found without any difficulty .
Stations in Essex , Suffolk , and Hertfordshire .
Prittlewell Steeple .
Rayleigh Steeple .
The station is in the north-east corner , go inches from the north parapet , and 4 feet from the eastern one .
Danbury Steeple .
The instrument was placed in the four angles of the Steeple , as circumstances rendered it necessary .
The points are readily found , as there is scarcely room in the corners to place an instrument .
Stations were also selected on the following Steeples , &amp;c. Canewden Steeple .
Frierning St. Tillingham St. Thorp St. Stoke St. Dover Court St. Peldon ; St. West Mersea St. Colchester , St. Mary 's Staircase. .
Tattingstone St. .
Rushmere St. Great Tey St. St. Osyth Pri"ory , Flagstaff Shoebury Ness , Staff .
Little Bentley St. .
Woodbridge St. Butely St. Otley St. Henley St. Falkenham St. Copdock Sti .
PNaugihton St. Lavenham St. Bulmer St. Glemsford St. Toppesfield St. Twinestead St. Southweald St. Pleshley St. High Easter St. HatfieldBroad Oak St. Beauchamp Roding St. Hornchurch St. Naseing St. Henham on the Mount St. Thorley St. Albury St. Elmdon St. Rickling St. Thaxted St. Balshamn St. Westham St. Barking , Staircase .
Berkhampstead , Gazebo .
Gallywood Commons Purfleet Cliff .
Babraham Mount .
Epping Mill , Base .
Brentwood Spire , sir , veyed round .
Stations in Kent .
Frant Steeple .
Station of 1787 .
Botley Hill .
Do .
Chiddingstone St. Mount Sion .
East Peckham St. Tudely St. Seal Chart .
Tunbridge St. Oxford Mount .
Silverden Farm .
Well Hill .
Crayford St. Ash St. North Fleet St. Stockbury St. Hernhill St. The stations chosen for the survey of Essex , and parts of the adjoining counties , as also for completing the survey of Kent , are mostly towers , as may be seen from the above .
When the tops of the towers have been smooth and even , the stations were always in the centres of them ; but , when they were covered with roofs , or had spires upon them , stations were chosen in the Most convenient places , and staffs always erected .
I have omitted giving the measurements by which the stations may be exactly found , Rayleigh and Prittlewell excepted , in order to avoid swelling this article to an inconvenient length .
4 F ART .
VIII .
Particulars relating to the Base on King 's Sedgemoor , and the Reduction of that Base .
Plate XXVIII .
Comparisons of the Chains..As the chains , after the measurement on Salisbury Plain , were oiled , and laid up in the Tower , no apprehensions were entertained that either of them was elongated by the rusting of the joints .
It was , however , our wish to have compared them with each other , previous to the commencement of this operation , and attempts were made , but rendered unsatisfactory , from the want of sufficient firmness in the soil .
It was not till we arrived at the 70th chain , that a good opportunity presented itself : the measuring chain A , was then compared with the standard B , and found to be thirteen divisions of the micrometer head , attached to the brass scale , in excess .
In these trials , the temperature remained\ constant ; the mercury in FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer being at 66-0 .
The 5o-feet chain , spoken of in a former article , came from the hands of Mr. RAMSDEN without being very accurately measured ; therefore it now became proper to ascertain its length , by means of the standard chain .
This was accordingly done at the present time ; when B was found to exceed twice the length of the 5o-feet chain , by i divisions of the micrometer screw ; the thermometer , , at the tinme of trial , standing at 69 ?
At the conclusion of the measurement , the chains were again compared , when the working chain A , was found to exceed the standard , 174 divisions on the micrometer head .
this was after 273 chains were measured .
Now , when 70 chains only had been measured , the difference between A and B was 13 of those divisions ; , consequently 17iT13 , = 44 divisions , was the wear of B , in measuring 203 chains .
Therefore , the whole wear is found by this proportion , viz. 203 : 4 : : 273 : 5,223 divisions , 2 ' of an inch ; which very inconsiderable quantity , like the wear on Salisbury Plain , no doubt , arose from the pivots and pivot holes of the joints being polished by continual use .
This supposition seems just ; as the wear of the chain , after the measurement on Hounslow Heath , was found to be much greater .
The length of the chain A , as well as that of the standard B , was accurately -ascertained by Mr. RAMSDEN , in the year 1793 , as particularlyshewn in the Philosophical Transactions for 1795 .
In the temperature of 54 , A was found to exceed 0oo feet , of an inch ; therefore , adding the wear which took place on Salisbury Plain , viz. 2 part of an inch , we get the length of A at the commencement of the measurement on Sedgemoor 10co , o0o9 feet .
From repeated trials , as before observed , the standard B was found to exceed the length of twice that of the new fifty-feet chain , 14 divisions of the micrometer head ; and , after the measurement , the same chain fell short of A , i7 of those divisions : hence , A exceeds twice the length of the jo-feet chain , 3d 4divisions .
Therefore the length of the short chain , in the temperature , of 540 , may be taken at _j50o075 feet .
ART .
x. Reduction of the Based The overplus of the 273d chain was measured Feet .
by Mr. RAMSDEN , and found to be -23,17 feet ; wherefore , the apparent length of the base was 27676,483o From the measurement in the Riding.house of his Grace the Duke of MARLBOROUGH , the chain A was found to exceed loo feet , in the temperature of 54 % 0,1 1425 parts of an inch ; to which , adding the wear by the measurement on Salisbury Plain , viz. yland also half the wear by the measurement of this base , viz. r part of an inch , we get 0 , j9 ' for the excess of the chain 's length above ioo feet ; thereforeo'191 x 272,8-27075 feet ; which add +2,7073 The sum of all the degrees shown by the thermometerwas98511 ; wherefore,5 x 272,8 x0,075 -3,1oG9feet ; which also add +3,10o6 Again , from the comparison of the 5o-feet chain with the standard B , it appeared that the excess above go feet , in the temperature of 5,4 , was o,09075 parts of an inch ; therefore , 0 ?
09075 x 8-oo6oS parts of a foot .
This likewise add + o , o6o5 The sum of all the degrees shown by the thermometers placed by the sides of the 5o-feet chain , was 1372 ; therefore I365 parts of a foot : and this add + o , o36527682,3944 27682,3944 And , for the reduction of the base to the temiperature of 620 , viz. for 8 ?
on the brass scale , we have O-01237 X 272s 8 SI , X z '2,2497 feet ; which subtract -2,2497 Ia Therefore , the length ~of the base is feet 27680,1447 which , neglecting decimals , may be taken at 27680 feet .
As to the probable error of th e above conclusion , I know not how to form a just opinion On ground sufficiently hard , and otherwise favourable , -I think a base of,0 miles might be measured so accurately , as to afford a result not differing from the truth more than three inches : but , on this occasion , I should not suppose the error can be less than six , nor more than nine inches .
Motives for adopting this supposition , have been related in a foregoing article .
ART .
Xo Calculation ofj the Sides of certain principal Triangles in Cornwall and Devonshire .
Plate XXVII .
Distance from Hensbarrow to St. Agnes Beacon , 97084,8 Feet .
Phil. Trans. 1797 .
p. 46i .
No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles Names of stations .
angles .
Duff .
cal Error .
for calculation .
Distances .
excess .
0 II 1JA It Feet .
I. St. Agnes Beacon 47 10 5 -O,15 47 1O0 3,25 Hensbarrow 67 6 13,25 -o,58 67 6 13 Trevose Head 65 43 47 -0,57 65 43 43,75 Io0 Io 1,3 1 _0,31 | TrevoseHead from St. Agnes Beacon 981o8 , I Hensbarrow 7 8099.,9 each triangle , yet , for the reasons assigned in the preface , I have chosen to depart from it on the present occasion .
In another principal triangle , the angle at Brown Willy is also supplementary : it has already been mentioned , that an instrument cannot be got on .
the top of it .
As to the angles at Kit Hill , in the two last triangles , being inferred ones , it may be proper to mention , that Black Doiwn was chosen for a station , after the observations were made at the former .
To have visited Kit Hill a second time would have been unnecessary , because there are not any distances , except to interior objects , which depend upon those triangles .
ART .
XII .
Calculation of the Sides of a Set of principal Triangles , carried on from the Side which joins the Stations on Beacon Hill , near Amesbury , and Wingreen Hill , near Shafisbury , towards the Base of Jer~fjcation on King 's Sedgemoor .
Plate XXIX .
Distance from Beacon Hill to Wingreen Hill,14522,4 Feet .
Phil. Trans. 1795 .
p. 501 .
No. of Observed { Spheri .
Error Angles corrected |Dstances triangles angles .
cal *c for ealculation .
excess .
_ , _ Fcet .
1X .
Wingreen Hill 89 7 37,75 -0,97 89 57 37 Beacon Hill 32 II 43,25-o0,48 -3 II 43 Bradley Knoll 57 50 38,25 -0o,48 57 50 40 179 59 59,25 I,93 -z,68 Bradley Knoll from WVingreen H ' 72074 L ecnHill 0 13572,3 x. Bradley Knoll .
40 43 52 -0,26 40 43 51,5 Wingreen -j96 20 37 -o,6s.96 ZO 36,25 Bull Barrow 42 55 32,75 -0,25 42 55 3 2,25 I8o o00 1 .
: s 1 , I6 +o,55 .
f ~~~Bradley Knoll tgXS Bull Barrow from : Breyn , I 8o VWingreen 6905 3,6 In the Philosophical Transactions for 1797 , p. 455 , the distance from Bull Barrow to Wingreen is said to be 69058 , being 41 feet greater than the above conclusion .
4 , No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
for calculation .
Distances .
excess..o 1ift it 0 Feet .
XIX .
Moor Lynch 54 3 22,5 _0,42 54 3 22 Mendip Hills 69 z6 48,25 -_0,49 69 26 47 Ash Beacon 56 29 51,5 -0,42 56 29 51 I8O 0 2,25 1,33 + , 92 Ash Beacon from 88MorLych1 Mendip Hills 7681 xx .
Mendip Hills 85 I6 22 -0,30 ?
8 i6 2zI,5 Ash Beacon so 8 45,5 -0 , z8 50 8 45,25 Bradley Knoll 71 34 55 -0,36 71 34 54,25 180 2,5 0,95 + 1,55 Br-adley Knoll from~ Mendip Hills 6x1963,5 Ash Beacon 6865 3,6 The distance from Bradley Knoll to the station on Mendip Hills , and also to that on Ash Beacon , is given in the preceding triangles , independent of the above values .
The first is 61961,1 , and the second 686,5,6 feet : these distances have their origin in the base on Salisbury Plain .
The other distances are 61963,5 , and 68653,6 feet ; and these depend on the base of verification on King 's Sedgemoor .
There is , therefore , a difference of 2-A-feet between the values of one distance , ( 1lo miles nearly , ) and g feet between those of the other , which is about 13 miles in length .
If the computations had been carried on from one base to another , the difference between the measured base on Sedgemoor and the computed base , would have appeared to be one foot nearly .
I have already delivered it as my opinion , that an error of nine inches may exist in the new base : therefore , these results must be considered as satisfactory enough .
A different correction of the observed angles , or another selection of the anhglebs -them~selves , .
might afford a doser agreement ; but I cansee no just reason for -makin g any alterations in , one or the other .
I shall now .
take the means of , the distances , as derived from both bases , and~ consider 686,52 , 2 feet as ' the true distance from Ash Beacon to Bradley Knoll ; and 6i962,3 fee-t for that between Bradley Knoll and the station on Mendip Hills .
in one of the foregoing triangles , ( .Bull Barrow , Bradley Knoll , and Ash Beacon , ) the distance between .
Ash , Beacon and Bull Barrow is found to be 741 feet .
If the mean distance between Bradley Knoll and Ash Beacon , viz. 61962,3 .
feet , be now used , 75 4502,77 feet becomes the distance between those~ stations ; and this I shall use , in computing the sides .
of the , two triangles which immediately follow .
No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles es s fsain ; angles .
DAf cal Ero.for calculation .
Distances .
excess .
0 1 ) fi 11~I 0I Feet .
x xx .
Ash , Beacon j.'8 , -s6 , :zs 0 Bull Barrow 5~i 26 42 -0,13 51 26 41,75 Mintern 94 .
14 : 23 -0,3 2 94 14 22 ?
,5 x180 0 1,25 05 +0,66 Mintern from fAhBao5916 , ~Bull Barrow .
4653,7 x~x i. Pilsden 353 I.-0,24 .
35S 3 0,75 Ash Beacon 49 21 38,25 -0,2449 2Z1 38 Mintern 93522 -o,6o053 212 i8o 0 1,25 1,08 +0,17 Pilsden from fAsh Beacon 02S35 ' .
VMintern 78177,6 In'our last account , ( see Phiil .
Trans. 1,797 .
P. 455 and 456 , ) the distance from Bull Barrow to Mintern was found to ' be 4265 3,4 feet ; and the distance from Pilsden-to Mintern 78177 feet .
The distances derived from the above triangles are very nearly .
the .
same ; a difference , of a few .
inches only existing between them .
, No. of Observed Spheri .
Angles correct triangles Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. Cal Erro .
Arng caleadation .
Distances .
excess .
o _i. .
_~ Feet .
xxiii .
Moor Lynch 5 67 19 3 , oO4 57 19 2,5 Ash Beacon 076 2 36,5 -,39 76 2 36 Pilsden. .
46 38 2zs Pilsden from Moor Lynch I82z0 But Pilsden was also observed from Ihundon Beacon ; fom which , and the angle observed at Moor Lynch , between Diundon Beacoti and Pilsden , results the following triangle .
xxv .
Moor Lynch S6 43 36,75 +0,03 56 43 36.5 Dundon Beacon io8 52 -o , ,64 o08 I 5175 Pilsden 1 ... $ 14 3 1,75 Pilsden from Moor Lynch I 18233,6 Hence , the mean distance from Moor Lynch to Pilsden is 1 18231,8 feet ; and this is the side from which the series about to be carried on , for the survey of the north of Devonshire , is to originate .
In the triangle formed by the stations onMendip Hills , Bradley Knoll , and Westbury Down , the distance between the first and last is 929$4 , O feet ; but , computing with the mean distance from Mendip to Bradley Knoll , ( 61962,3 feet , ) as found from both bases , the distance from Mendip to Westbury Down proves to be 92955,9 feet ; which distance is used in the remaining principal triangles in this quarter .
xxv .
Farley Down 77 21 53,75 -.o,44 77 21 52,75 Westbury Down 63 42 51,25 _-0,34 63 42 49,75Men'dip Hills 38 55 17,5 -'0,3 : 38 55 17,5 I~30 2 , , 11 I1+ 1,40 Mendip from f Farley Down .
854-1 , z Westbury Down 95 55 , No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles .
Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
for calculation .
Distances , excess .
xxx .
White Horse Hill 63 7 53o25 0,94 63 7 5bS Highclere 63 1$ 16,75,94 .
63 i8 17 Nfuflield 53 33 49,5 -o86 63 33 49,5 179 59 59,5 2,74 .
_3,24 White Horse Hill from NHi ghler | 120557,7 l.Highc~ere o8563,1 Distance from Beacon H11l to Highclere , 98694,4 feet .
Phil. Trans. 1795 .
p. 497 .
xxxi .
Beacon Hill 17 42 38,5 _ 0,12 17 42 38,25 Highclere 56 0o 9,751 ?
0,08.56 0 29,25 Inkpin Hill io6 I6 5 3,25 -0,47 io6 I6 52,5 180 0 1,5 0,50 + 10 1nkpin Hill from fHighcleire -31278,8 Beacon Hill 85247,9 xxxii .
Highclere 34 27 50,75 +0,38 34 27 50,75 lnkpin Hill 133 27 57,5 0,91 133 27 58 White Horse Hill 1-2 4 11,5 +0,04 'z 4 I1,25 179 59 59,75 049 |-Iz4 White Horse Hill from Highclere xo856SS Inkpin 84647,1 In the following computations I shall use i 20557,7 feet fr the distance between White Horse Hill and Nufflield : this is derived from the base on Hounslow Heath .
By the last triangle , White Horse Hill , from Highclere , is distant 108565,5 feet ; which is computed from the base on Salisbury Plain .
The distance between those stations , found by the second of the above triangles , is lo8563,1 feet .
There .
fore , whether the distance between White Horse Hill and Nuffield be founded on the base measured on Salisbury Plain , or Hounslow Heath , nearly the same conclusion is derived : the difference will o. of -Observred Spheriglves corrected Names of stations .
E ai f Error .
Angl crcted Distances .
b _._ ... .i ... ..angler. .
ca .
_ calculatio excess .
LIV .
Crouch Hill .
I45 z3 26,25 1452326 Epwell M 27 3 10 27 3 lW Brill ... Crouch Hill from { Brill |zg668 Epvell ~~~29668,8 Distance from White Horse Hill to Shotover Hill to8o$oz feet .
LV .
Shotover Hill 48 532,751 48 5 3Z2Z White Horse I6 59 53,75 16 59 53T25 Whiteham Hill " 14 54 34,75 I14 54 34,5 Whiteham Hill from { White Horse Hill 8866z , z Shotover Hill ' 34827,4 LV 1 .
Whiteham Hill 155 52 35 55 5Z 36 Shotover Hill .
24 37 36 24 37 37 Cumner Hill 999 29 48,5 99-29 47 'I79 59 59,5 CumnerHill rom { Shotover Hill 2923 1,5 Whiteham Hill 14714,3 Anld , because the Observatory of his Grace the Duke of MARL .
BOROUGH , at Blenheim , together with that at Qxford , have been observed with the same care and attention as the principal stations , andalso because precise determinations of the situations are of great importance , I shall here insert the triangles , formed by their intersections .
No. of Observed SpheriAngles corrected triangles Names of stations .
angles .
Diff. cal Error .
for calculation , Distances .
d excess .
o i , , , o , , , Feet .
LV I. Shotoveri-lill -23 II 5 23 II1 5 Cumner Hill 29 23 33 29 23 33 The Atlas on the top 127 25 22 of the Observatory at Oxford Oxford Observatory from Cumner Hill 14492 Shotover Hill -i8o65,1 LVIII .
Whiteham Hill 13I 25 36,5 I31 25 35,5 White Horse Hill 10 30 43,5 10 30 43,75 Blenheim Observatory ... 38 3 40,75 Blenheim Observatory from { White HorsH Iill 07831,9 Whiteham Hill 26237,6 ART .
xiv .
Triangles for connecting the Series carried on from Scutchamfly Barrow and White Horse Hill , in Berkshire , into Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire , with the Series carried onfor the Survey of Essex .
The angle at St. Ann 's Hill , between the station on Hanger Hill Tower and Hampton Poor House , inferred from General Roy 's Account , is 250 33 ' 58 " , .
In 1793 , the angle between the staff on Pen Church Tower and Hampton Poorl House was taken , and found = 9 ?
5 570 34",57 therefore , the angle between Pen Tower and Hanger Hill is 700 23 ' 36 " .
The distance from St. Ann 's Hill to Pen is determined by the following triangle , in which the distance between St. Ann 's Hill and Bagshot Heath , viz. 46955,3 feet , ( see Phil. Trans. for 1795 , p. 496 , ) is used for the base .
No. of Observed Spheri .
Angles corrected triangles Name of s tation angles .
Dill .
cal sor .
for calculation. .
excess .
0g I/ 0 ji , I FeCet .
LIX .
St. Ann 's Hill 80 43 48 80 43 48 Bagshot 70 30 37 70 30 37 Pen Tower ... 28 45 35 Pen Tower from f St. Ann 's Hill .
92000,5 T Bagshot Heath _ 963I8 The distance from St. Ann 's Hill to Hanger Hill Tower is 68895,8 feet : this is derived from the mean length of the base on Hounslow Heath .
This side , together with St. Ann 's Hill and Pen , using the included angle at St. Ann 's Hill , as found above , give 94640,5 feet , for the distance between Pen and Hanger Hill Towers .
The angle at St. Ann 's Hill , between Bagshot Heath and Hanger HillTower , is 1i1i 7 ' 24",25- : this , with the sides Bagshot Heath and St. Ann 's , St. Ann 's and Hanger Hill , give 170 13 ' 48 " , for the angle at Bagshot Heath , between Hanger Hill Tower and St. Ann 's Hill : hence we have the following triangle .
Bagshot Heath 160 451 43 " Hanger Hill io 18 23 Stanmore 5 59 55 54 I12 Which triangle gives 37431 feet , for the distance betWeen Stang more and Hanger Hill Tower .
The angle at the station -on Bow Brickhill , ( see the preceding article , ) between Wendover and Kinsworth , is 460 i8 ' 8/ r,5 ; and the distances from it to these stations are -92402,2 feet , and 57668 feet respectively : these give the following triangle .
Bow Brickhill 46 18 ' 8",5 Wendover 38 25 21,25 Kinsworth 95 i6 50,25 From which the distance between Wendover and Kinsworth is found 67090,7 feet .
The observed angle at Wendover , between Bow Brickhill and Stanmore , is 1020 22 ' 29 " ; from which , subtracting ?
80 25 ' 2 1",25 , the angle between Bow Brickhill and Kinsworth , we get 630 57 ' 7",75 , for the angle between Kinsworth and Stanmore .
Again , the observed angle at Kinsworth , between Bow Brickhill and Stanmore , is 730 3/ 44 ' ; from which , subtracting the angle between Bow Brickhill and Wendover , we get 780 21 ' 13",75 , for the angle between Stanmore and Wendover .
If these computed angles are actually such as might be observed , were Kinsworth and Wendover visible from each other , the angle at Stanmore between those stations ought to be 37 ' 41 ' 39 " , nearly : but the observed angle was 370 41 ' 41",75 ; which is so nearly the computed -one , as to leave little doubt of the accuracy of those data from which the angles are derived .
The distance from Wendover to Kinsworth is 67090,7 feet .
Wendover 63 57 7),75s Kinsworth 78 21 13,75 1which , correctedforcalculaStanmore 37414175[ tion , becomes , 18o0 o,25j Wendover 63 , j Kinsworth 78 21 12 Stanmore 37 41 41 which triangle gives Wendov = 1746-4j1k the distance of Stanmore from in= 1877 57 ?
feet .
In consequence of Bushy Heath intercepting the view towards the east from Stanmore , it became necessary to choose a station on the former .
To determine the distance , the angles at the two stations were taken very accurately ; they were as follows , Stanmore 42 12 1 , Bushy Heath .
i 40 , Kinsworthf,. .
which gives 5483,3 feet for the required distance .
To -determine the distance of the station on Pen Church Tower , we have two angles in the following triangle , viz. Wendover 38 13 18l which , corrected for calculaStanmore 23 44 48 t tion , becomes , Pen Tower18 14 J : Wendover 38 1-3 18,25 Stanmore 23 44 8,25 Pen Tower 118 18 which triangle gIves the distance of Pen from{e r= 27 feet , With this distance of Stanmore fromPen , found from the Itst triangle , and also that between Stanmore and Hanger Hill , derived from the triangle , Bagshot Heath , Hanger Hill , and Stanmore , together with the included .
angle at Sianmore , viz , 0og ' 28 ' 22",5 , we get the distance of Pen to Hanger Hill , Tower = 9463158 feet .
The me distance has been found before , in a shorter and more di-ect way , being 94640,5 feet : the difference is only 8,7 feet ; a sufficient proof that the distances given for the survey of this intricate and woody country , are sufficiently correct .
It will be more convenient to show how these triangles are connected with those to the eastward , when I arrive at that part of the work which treats of the survey of Essex , than at present .
I shall , therefore , proceed to the following article , after observing , that by the help of Harrow Spire , ( the situation of which has been determined by General Roy , ) and by observations hereafter to be made with the small instrument on Pen Tower , less difficulty will occur in the interior survey than was at first expected .
ART .
xV .
Triangles formed by the intersections of Churches , Windmills , and other Objects .
Triangles .
Angles Distances of the Stations from the observed .
intersected Objects .
Feet .
Little Haldon I 235 Gat Haldon t18974 Ball 's Obelisk -13 2 4I 8 fret Halon19366 Great Haldon , secondary station Great Haldon from Ball 's Obelisk 19366 feet .
Great Haldon 68 0 35 'f 28316 Ball 's Obelisk 7 ' 3230 jTopshain Steeple t 27679 Topsbam Steeple Little Haldon from Furland 72776 feet .
Little Haldon .
1822 }Hope 's Nose { 37656 Furland 8 42 53 J 3902.8 Hope 's Nose , secondary station Bodmin from Trevose 8I 967,6 feet .
Bodmirn 5 48 43 Ttf45936 Trevose 21 28 36 } Minvern Steeple | 36866 St. Minvern Steeple _____ _____________ Bodmin | IS 35 3 |t Minvern windnill f 34852 Trevose 46 W ml 48478 St. Minvern Windmill SECTION SECOND .
Determination of the Latitudes and Longitudes of the Stations on Black Down , in ' Dorsetshire , Butterton , in Devonshire , and St. Agnes Beacon , in Cornwall .
ART .
XVI.-Calculation of the Distance between Black Down and Dunnose in the Isle of Wight .
To complete this distance , I shall have recourse to the xxvith and xxviith triangles , published in the Philosophical Transactions of 1795 , and LIId and Llvth of the Trans. for 1797 , together with the observations made at Black Down , in the latter year .
( See also P1 .
XXX .
Fig. 1 .
) .
The most eligible method of calculating with these data , seems to be that of first finding the cross-distance between Black Down and Dean Hill .
To do this , we have the angle at Nine Barrow Down , between Black Down and Dean Hill , and the respective distances from the first to the latter stations , together with the newly observed angle between Dunnose and Nine Barrow Down ; from which we obtain the angles of a triangle , constituted by Dunnose , Nine Barrow Down , and Black Down .
The distance from Nine Barrow Down to Dean Hill is 166497 feet , and , from the same station to Black Down , the distance is 126782 feet , ( see Phil. Trans. for 1795 , p. 502 , and for 1797 , p. 455 , ) and the .
angle comprehended by those distances 1-o0 30'13",25 .
The difference between the horizontal angle and that formed by the chords is 3",25 , which , .
substracted from 1100 30 ' 1 3",25 , leaves 1iioo t o " : computing with this angle and the sides spoken of , there results the following triangle , viz. Nine Barrow Down 1100 30 ' 10 " Black Down 40 6 4,75 Dean Hill _ 29 22 55475 This , using the side Nine Barrow and Dean Hill , ( 166497 feet , ) gives 240236,7 feet for the distance between Black Down and Dean Hill .
The angle at Dean Hill , between Nine Barrow Down and Dunnose , is 64 ' 5o ' 19 " , ( see Phil. Trans. for 1795 .
p. soi , i ) and the angle between Blatk Down and Nine Barrow , as just found , is 290 22 ' S",75s which !
increased by the proper correction for the difference between the chord and horizontal angles , becomes 290 22 ' 57"1,5 The sum of these angles,940 13A ' 16",5 , is .
the honrizontal angle between Black Down , and Dunnose .
The angle at Black Down , .
between Dunnose and Nine Barrow Down , deduced from observations made in .
1797 , is found to be 40 30 ' 25",75 this , subtracted from the angle between Dean Hill and Dunnose , leaves 35 36 ' 29 " , for the angle at Black Down ; which , corrected for the purpose of reduction to their respective chord angles , become 940 13 " 111,5 , and 350 ? ?
36 ' 25"'475 , from whence we get the angle at Dunnose -.0so s0 ' 22",75 .
We have , therefore , the following triangle , viz. , Dean Hill 940 13 ' Black Doq.w 35 36 ; 25,75 Dunnose 1o .
22,75 The distance between Dean Hill and , Dunnose is 183496,2 .
feet , ( Phil. Trans. for 1795 , p. Sol , ) and that between Black Down and Dean Hill , according to the foreging computation , is 240236,7 feet ; these , applied to the angles of the above triangle , give 314309,6 , and 31435,4 feet , respectively , for the distance between Black Down and Dunnose : wherefore , the mean 314307,5 feet , --59,528 miles , may be considered as the true distance between those stations .
Direction of the Meridian at Black Down .
On the i8th of April , in the forenoon , the angle between the Pole Star , when at its greatest apparent elongation from the meridian , was observed , and found to be 040 199 ' 19",25 And on the 19th , in the afternoon 98 42 47 Half their sum is the angle between the meridian and Abbotsbury staff 101 31 3 On the 2oth of April , in the forenoon , the angle betxveen the Pole Star , when at its greatest apparent elongation from the meridian , was observed , and found to be 104 19 25,25 And on the ith , in the afternoon 98 42 35,5 Half their sum is the angle between the meridian and Abbotsbury staff o31 0,5 Therefore , 1010 31 ' 2 " may be taken for the angle between the meridian and Abbotsbury staff .
ARTT .
xvii.-Latitude and Longitude of Black Down .
The angle between Dunnose and the Abbotsbury Staff was observed , and found = 1640 26 ' 35"25 ; and the angle between the meridian and the same staff , by double azimuths of the Pole Star , iclo 31/ 2 " .
Wherefore their sum , subtracted from 3600 , leaves 940 2 ' 22",75 , the angle which Dunnose makes with the meridian .
In Fig. 4 .
: Plate XXX .
let Z be the zenith , B the station on Black Down , 'and ZBA its meridian ; also , let D be Dunnose , and ZD its meridian ; likewise , suppose BC to be an arc of a great circle , perpendicular to the meridian at B , and DA another arc of a great circle , perpendicular to the meridian at D , BF and ED being the parallels of latitude at 'Black Down and Dunnose .
In the spherical triangle BZD , the angles at B and D are given , the first being 940 2 ' 22",75 , and the second 840 54 ' 53 " therefore , in the triangle ABD the angle at B is 80 57 ' 36",75 , and , in the triangle BDC , the angle at D= 840 54 ' 53 " : hence , the angles of these triangles , when reduced to those formed by the chords , are as follows : DDC = 840 5452 " In the triangle BDC2 44,75 CBD 42 22,75 { ABD 85 57 36,75 And in the triangle ABD BAD = 88 57 16,25 BDA =j7 Now the distance between Black Down and Dunnose , BD , has been already found to be 314307,5 feet ; therefore , using the above angles with that distance , ( after the proper corrections are applied for reducing the horizontal angles to those formed by the chords , ) we get , In the triangle BCD { C _29 feet. .
AD= 31358.1,2~ And in the t iangle ABD feet .
Again , in the two small triangles formed by the parallels BF and ED , the perpendiculars BC and DA , and the small arcs CF and AE , we have the angles at C and A given , the first being 910 S ' 45",75 , and the last 880 57 ' Ha " ; which angles , however , are augmented by the addition of the differences between the horizontal angles and those formed by the chords , We have therefore , r BCF = 91 ' 2 ' 451,7,5 " In the triangle BCF BFC 88 25 51,5 1FBC= 0 31 22,75 rEAD 88.57 17 And in the triangle AED AED go S1 21,5 tADE= O 31 21,5 And , using BC and AD , as found above , we get CF = 2,859 , fj CF-28$9511feet .
And EA = 2859,8 e Therefore FD = DC + CF 22146,9 + 2859,1 25006 feet .
And BE = BA = EA = 27864,5 -2859,8 -25004,7 feet .
The mean , 25005,3 feet , may be considered as very nearly the true distance between the parallels of Black Down and Dunnose .
This method is the same as that made use of in the Phil. Trans. for 1795 , P. 521 , and affords the means of very accurately determining the distance between the parallels of latitude of the two stations , when the angles were observed with precision , and the direction in which the .
stations lie , is not much removed from east and west .
This small space , 25004,7 feet , corresponds to 4 ' 6",5 , in which I use 6o8$1 fathoms for the length of a degree of the meridian in So0 41 ' .
See Phil. Trans. for 1795 , P. 537 .
Now the latitude of Dunnose is 50 ' 37 ' 7",3 , and its longitude lo 1 ' 36 " ; ( Phil. Trans. for 1795 , p. 536 ; ) therefore , i 37'7`3 + 1 ' 6",5 -= 41 ' 13",8 , is the latitude of Black Down .
This method of finding the latitude seems to be more correct than by spherical computation ; yet , by this latter , nearly the same conclusion is derived ; for the bearing of Black Down west of Dunnose being 840 4 52",5 , we get the distance of that station from the meridian of the latter 313So72 feet , and from the perpendicular , 27861 feet ; which , converted into parts of an arch , according to the lengths of their respective degrees , gives 50 41 ' 14 " for the latitude , and 10 20 ' 46",4 for the longitude westof Dunnose .
According to the troublesome yet ingenious method recommended by M. SEJOUR , in his Traite Analytique des Mouvemens apparens des Corps &amp; lestes , the latitude of Black Down comes out50 41 ' 13",9 , and the longi- .
tude 10 20 ' 45",75 .
We may , therefore , admitting the supposition of Dunnose being situated in SoO 37 ' 7".,3 , safely take 50o 41 ' 13",8 for the latitude , and 20 32 ' 22",4 for the longitude , of Black Down ; that of Dunnose being 10 I i ' 36"/ west of the meridian of Greenwich .
ART .
xviii .
Calculation of the Distance between the Stations on Black Down , in Dorsetshire , and Rippin Tor , in Devonshire .
-For the calculation of this distance , we must have recourse to the XLvLith , XLVIIIth , XLIxth , andLth -triangles .
( See Phi .
losophicalTransactions for 1797 , and Plate XXX , Fig. i of this Volume .
) In the twofirst , we have thewhole angle at Pilsden , between Dumpdon and Black Down = -152 37 ' 27",25 , which , reducedto the angle formed by the chords , becomes 120 37 ' 24",25 .
The sides forming this angle , are Dumpdon 'and Pilsden , Pilsden and Black Down : the distance between the twofirst stations being 78459,3 feet , and between the : two lastg7i o0,7 feet .
From these data , the distance between Dumpdon and Black Down is found to be-3095,7 feet , the triangle for computea tionbeing , Pilsden 2152 37 ' 241",25 Black Down 13 37 50 , Dumpdon I3 44 45,25 But this side may be also found , by computing with the whole angle at Charton Common , which angle , when reduced to the plane of the chords , becomes 1410 33 ' 53",75 .
The two sides are 581012,5 feet , and 103345 feet ; which data give the following trian , gle : Charton 140 33"1 53115 Dumpdon 24 48 39,25 Black Down 13 27 27 , from whencewe find the distance from Dumipdon to Black Down = 153094.6 feet .
Wherefore , the mean , 153095,2 feet , maybe considered to be very nearly the true distance .
In the Lth triangle , ( Cawsand Beacon , Dumpdon , and Little Haldon ) the angle at Cawsand Beacon is 430 14 ' 12",25 ; and in the LISt , ( Rippin Tor , Cawsand Beacon , and Little Haldon ) the angle at the same station is 250 30 ' 39",75 ; their sum is 68 ' 45 ' i " , and , adding 1 " for the necessary correction , it becomes 68 ? ?
45 ' 2 " .
Computing with this angle , and the including sides , ( 640o20,5 and 18334 feet , ) we obtain the following triangle : Rippin Tor 9 ?
0 34 ' 351/ Cawsand Beacon 68 45 X Dumpdon 20 40 s3 , which gives the distance from Dumpdon to Cawsand Beacon == 169014 feet .
In the xLIXth triangle , the observed angle at Dumpdon is found to be 86 ? ?
39 ' 8"W , and , by adding to it the horizontal angle at Dumpdon , between Rippin Tor and Little Haldon , and also that between Black Down and Charton Common , we get 1250 Y5 ' S",5 , for the horizontal angle between Rippin Tor and Cawsand Beacon .
To reduce this angle to that formed by the chords , 6 " ' must be subtracted ; therefore , ?
5 ? ?
54 ' 24",5 is the angle for computation .
, The sides Dumpdon and Rippin Tor , Dumpdon and Black Down , ( 169o14 and 15309,2 feet , ) with this angle , give the following triangle : Rippin Tor 25e 36 ' 4",5 Dumpdon e5 54 24 , S Black Down 28 29 31 , which gives the distance from Rippin Tor to Black Down 286973,3 feet .
On referring to the observations made in 1797 , on Black Down , it will be seen that the angle between Rippin Tor and the staff erected near Abbotsbury , was ?
0 8 ' 52",5 , and .
the angle between Pilsden and the-same staff 45 6 ' i-t " ; their difference , 421 7 ' 20",5 is the angle between Rippin Tor and Pilsden .
IN~ow , if the angles of the triangles , five in number , used in finding the distance between Rippin Tor and Black Down have been observed correctly , and the calculations properly made , the computed angle at Blackdown , between those Stan tions , should be , of course , the same ; but the angle formed by , the chords of the arcs between -Blackdown and Pilsden and Dumpdon , has been found 130 37 ' 50 " , J , ( which is very nearly the same as the horizontal one , ) and the angle between Dumpdon and Rippin Tor= 28o 29 ' ?
1 " , which it is also unnecessary to correct : their sum is 420 721/ ,5 , the very angle observed .
It is not , perhaps , proper todismiss this consideration , without observing that this agreement affords a strong proof of the excellence of our instrument , as the triangles , from their magnitude and nature , are not so disposed as to favour tha comparison .
4 M , ART .
XIX .
Latitude and Longitude of Rippin Tor .
The angle at Blackdown , between the staff at Abbotsbury and the meridian , has been found = 1010 31 ' 1",5 , nearly , and that between Rippin Tor and the same staff-= ? ?
8 ' 52 " , s ; therefore , 980 22 ' 8 " is the angle which Rippin Tor makes with the meridian , and this , taken from 1800 , leaves 810 37 ' 52 " ' , the bearing of Rippin Tor SW from Black Down .
This angle , with the -distance found above , gives 28585,3 feet , for the distance of Rippin Tor from the meridian of Black Down , and 56o86 , o feet , for that from its perpendicular ; , therefore , the latitude is , o 33 ' 59 " , I , and the longitude west from Black Down , i0 13 ' 3",8 , consequently , its longitude west of Greenwich is 30 4i5 26"2 .
Direction of the Meridian at Butterton Hill .
On the 6th of May , in the afternoon , the angle between the Pole Star , when at its greatest ap ?
parent elongationfrom the meridian , and the staff on Hemmerdon Ball was observed , and found to be 9 !
92 13/ 175 And on the7th , in the afternoon 97 4 i44 Half their sum is the angle between the meridian and the staff on Hemmerdon Ball 94 16 44 Again , on the 7th , in the afternoon , the angle between the Pole Star , when at its greatest apparent elongation from the meridian , and the staff on Hemmerdon Ball was observed , and found to be 91 29 1-2 Half the sum of this , and the angle observed in the forenoon of the same day , ( 970 4 ' 14 " ) is.940 i6 ' 43 " Hence , 940 i6 ' 44 " may be considered as the true angle between the meridian and the staff on Hemmerdon Ball .
The angle between the station on Rippin Tor and Hemmers don Ball , is 12 .
I 7 ' 7",75 ; therefore , 1210 17 ' 7",75 -940 i6 441 " 270 o ' 23",75 , is the bearing of Rippin Tor , north-east of Butterton .
This angle , with 62951 feet , gives 28585,2 feet , and,56086,6 feet , for the distance of Rippin Tor from the meridian and perpendicular ; which , using 61182 and 60847 fathoms , for the lengths of degrees on the meridian and perpendicular , respectively become 4 ' 40",3 , and 9 ' 1A3 " .
Therefore , in the right angled spherical triangle BPT , ( Plate XXX , Fig. 2 , ) in which B is Butterton , P the pole , T Rippin Tor , and R the point where the parallel to the perpendicular cuts the meridian , we have the co-latitude of T , or Rippin Tor , -=390 26 ' o",9 , and RT = 4 ' 40"t,3 , We have , consequently , cosine 4 ' 40",3 : radius cosine 390 26 ' o , " 9 : cosine 390 26 ' o , " 7 , the co-latitude of the point R. So PB _ PR + RT=39 " 26 ' o",7 + 9 ' 13 " 39 ' 35 ' 13",7 ; therefore , the latitude of Butterton is Soo 94 ' 46",3 , and its longitude west from Greenwich , 30 52 ' 47",5 .
ART .
XX .
Calc lation of the Distance between Hensbarrow and Butterton .
The most convenient , as well as the most accurate means of computing this distance , will be by referring to the LvIth , LVUth , and LX vth triangles , in the eries of i 796 , where the sum of the observed angles at Carratan Hill is 1860-52 ' 43 " .
The correction for reducing this angle to that formed by the chords , is 4 " ; therefore , 1860 52 ' 29 " is the proper angle for computation .
The distance from Hensbarrow to Carraton Hill , is 100416 feet , and from Butterton to that station 131576 feet .
( See Phil. Trans. for 1797 , p. 458 , 460 .
) These data give the following triangle , viz. Carraton Hill 136 52 ' 39 " Hensbarrow 24 35 57 , Butterton 18 31 23 , , which gives 21602 feet , for the distance between Hensbarrow and Butterton Hill .
The angle between Carraton Hill and Rippin Tor was observed in 1796 , and found 1o0 3A ' 44",25 .
( See Phil. Trans. 1797 .
) The angle between Hensbarrow and Rippin Tor is 190 35 ' 3",25 ; therefore , 18 31 ' -19 " is the angle between Hensbarrow and Carraton .
The difference between the horizontal and chord angle is 0",25 nearly ; this , added to i8 ' 31 ' 23",5 , gives i8 ' 31 ' 23",75 , which is nearly the same as the observed angle .
This agreement proves , that the angles of the triangles connecting Butterton and Hensbarrow have been oboe served correctly .
ART .
XXI .
Latitude and Longitude of Hensbarrow .
The angle between Hensbarrow and Hemmerdon , ( see Observations made at Butterton , ) was 1o521 4',5 ; therefore , as the angle between the latter and the meridian = 940 i6 ' 44 " , we get 920 24 ' 39",5 , for the angle which -Hensbarrow makes with the same meridian .
The distance from Hensbarrow to Butterton , as found above , is 2 1602 feet ; this , with the angle 920 24':9 " , S gives the distance of Hensbaro'w from the meridian = 1587 feet , and from the perpendicular 9089 feet ; these , converted into parts of degrees , become '35 ' 17 " , i , and l ' 29",62 .
Therefore , the latitude of Hensbarrow is 5 28 ' ES , and its longitude , west of Butterton , j5 ' 20",2 ; consequently , its longitude , west of Greenwich , is 3 ? ?
52 ' 47"SO + 55 ' 20",2 =4 48 7"7 ART .
XXIi .
Direction of the Meridian at St. Agnes Beacon .
On the 22d of May , in the forenoon ; the angle between the Pole Star , when at its greatest elongation from the meridian , and the staff near Peranzabulo , was observed , and found to be 38 26 ' " ,5 And on the 92d , in the afternoon 44 0 33,25 Half their sum is the angle between the meridian and staff 41 13 17,5 The angle between the staff at Peranzabulo and the -station Hensbarrow , was also observed at the same station , and found to be 31 50 ' 55 " wherefore , 41 13 ' 17"/ , + 310 I50551 , 5 730 41 13 " , is the angle between Hensbarrow and St. Agnes Beacon .
ART .
XXII .
TO find the Latitude and Longitude of St. Agnes Beacon .
In Plate XXX .
Fig. 3 .
Let A be the station at St. Agnes , P the pole , H Hensbarrow , and B the point where the parallel to the meridian of St. Agnes cuts that meridian , BHP being a right angled spherical triangle on the earths , surface .
PH has been already found =39 36 ' 561,7 ; and , as BH , the distance of Hensbarrow from the meridian , = 92878 , and AB , the distance from the perpendicular , _ 28271 , we-get BH =I15 10",9 , and AB = ' 38",8 ; which arcs are found by using 61182 and 6o84$ fathoms , for the length of their respective degrees .
From these data , the latitude of the point B1 is easily derived ; for cosine 15 ' lo",9 : radius : : cosine 390 36 ' 56"',7 : cosine 39 6 36 ' 11,2 , the co-latitude of B ; hence 390 36 ' 5",2 + 4 ' 38",8 390 41 ' 3",0 the co-latitude of A ; hence 5oO 18 ' 27 " is the latitude of St. Agnes .
Its longitude , west from Hensbarrow , is also found by a simple proportion ; sine 39o 36'.54":radius sine i,5 lo " , : sine 00 23 ' 48 " ; therefore , 4 48 ' 7,7 + 00 23 ' 48 " = 55 l S",7 , is the longitude of St. Agnes , west of Greenwich .
ART .
XXIV.-Remarks .
I have shown , with attention to minuteness , the manner in which the latitudes and longitudes of the stations on which directions Iof meridians have been observed are determined .
It now remains to be considered , how far the uncertain state in whichnwe remain , with respect to the figure of the earth , may affect the accuracy of those conclusions .
If the earth were homogeneous , it would necessarily be an ellipsoid ; and , were its diameters known , the longitudes and latitudes of places on its surface might be accurately computed , provided their geodetical situations were correctly ascertained , and the latitude of one station in the series of triangles truly determined .
As there is , however , great reason to suppose that the earth is not any regular geometrical figure , from the impossibility of reconciling the results of the various measurements for ascertaing the lengths of degrees of latitude , 'some uncertainty must remain with respect to our deductions ; but there seems to be reasons or suppoing the errors , thence resultixig , are confined within moderate limits , In making computations on a given hypothesis of the earth 's figure , the truth of the conclusions , as well as the ease with which they are found , materially depends on the distances of the objects from their respective fixed meridians .
If the difference of longitude approaches nearly to , or exceeds ?
' , to compute that longitude , and also the latitude , it is necessary the precise figure should be understood ; because the analogy does not hold good , in that case , between the equality of the sums of the angles of spherical and spheroidical triangles on the earth 's surface .
With regard to latitudes , more particularly when the distances are diminished by means of frequent new directions of meridians , a knowledge of the exact length of a degree of a great circle is not necessary because the determination of those latitudes , by means of spherical computation , being true-as to sense , the cosines of those small arcs will remain the same .
As there cannot be a doubt justly entertained of the latitude of Greenwich being very accurately determined , as particularly set forth by the Astronomer Royal in his reply to M. CASSINI , it is reasonable to suppose , that if any errors do exist in the latitudes of those stations , they can only have arisen from the computations being made with erroneous lengths of degrees on the meridian - .
In our former Papers on this subject , we have taken it for granted , that the length of a degree of the meridian at the middle pointbetween Greenwich and Paris , ( 5oO:o ' , ) is 6o842 fathoms , &gt; ( which supposition may be considered just , provided the latitude of Paris , 480 50 ' 14 " , be as near the truth as 510 28 ' 40 " is to that of Greenwich , ) and afterwards added 9 fathoms , making it 60851 , fin order to get the length of the degree in , 411 ; ( see Phil. Trans. i7t , p.37 ; ) these 9 fathoms , however , were not arbitrarily assumed , but computed .
If the latitude of Paris be 480 , 5o IS " ) ( Con .
Ides TSms , 1797-98 , p. 373 , ) the -length of the degree will be about 7 fathoms greater , -which will make the degree in 500 41 ' , o849 instead of 60842 fathoms .
The latitude of the station on Beachy Head , 500 44 ] 293",7 , was found by using 6o8g6i fathoms for the length of a degree on the meridian in 5t0 6 ' ; but , if it be true that 480 so ' 15"e is the latitude of Paris , the latitude of Beachy Head will be about one-third of a second greater .
This seems to be the limit of the probable error in the computed latitude of this station since its proximity to the meridian of Greenwich , obviates any doubt of the conclusions being affected by any uncertainty respecting the length of the degree of the great circle perpendicular to the meridian .
The latitude of Dunnose was determined by computing the distance between the parallels of that station and 3eachy Head ; ( see Phil. Trans. for 1795 , p. 522 ; ) which method is very exact , and preferable to any other , since the small space between the -parallels was determined with great accuracy , leaving not a doubt of a greater error than 3 feet , a quantity corresponding to about 33d part of a , second .
And , since the same method 33 has been adopted to find the difference of latitude between Black Down and Dunnose , -it is highly : probable that the latitude of the former station is ot remark more than i13-ths of a second from the true-one , t of Beachy Hd being supposed .
0Po XA !
o. , }t It would have been fortunate , hadthe difference of latitude between Black Down and Btterton , and Butterton and St. Agnes Beacon , been determined inwthef same manner , since the latitudes of all these important stations would , in that case , have been found with evident accuracy ; but , whoever has leisure and inclination to go through these -calculations , will find that , by means of the directions of meridians at Butterton and St. Agnes Beacon , the latitudes of those stations may be found to within half a second .
By this I mean , that , allowing the latitude of Black Down to be 50 ' 41 133",8 , the latitude of l3utterton , 5o ? ?
24 ' 46"4,1 , will not deviate more than half a second from the truth ; and the same may be said with respect to the latitude of St. Agnes , that of Butterton being admitted as correct Supposing , therefore , the latitude of Greenwich to be X5 ) 28 ' 40 " , we may rely on the assuranceof the latitude of St. Agnes Beacon being determined within i-A of the truth .
With respect to the longitudes of these stations , their accu-racy entirely depends n the observations made at Dunnose and Beachy Headl , for determining the length of a degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian .
The truth of the deduction drawn from those observations on their accuracy and it can scarcely be deemed presumptuous to assert , that an .
error of more than 1 " cannot have : existed in either of the angles .
On this account , therefore , I should suppose , that the difference of longitude between those stations , has been found so nearly as to leave no greater error than I " .
The whole of the operation to which I now allude , was performed with great care ; the directions of the meridians having been determined by means of double azimuths of the Pole Star , confirmed by computed azimuths .
In returning to the consideration of this subject , I do not perceive any source of error likely to affect the conclusions , unless it be that to which all astronomical observations , made with instruments adjusted by plumb-lines or levels , are liable .
In determining differences of longitude through these means , the direction in which any lateral attraction must act , to produce a maximum of error , is at right ankles to thi meridian .
If the attraction be in the plane of it , it is obvious the double azimuth , although the telescope tif the theodolite does not move in a vertical , will nevertheless give , almost exactly , the true direction of the meridian .
The high lands about St. Catherine 's Light-House , in the Isle of Wight , are about six miles from Dunnose , and nearly west of , it ; but it does not appear that the effect of their lateral attraction can have produced any sensible error ; since it may be shown , that the plumb-line of the sector at Schehallien would have deviated only a small part of a second from the true vertical , had the sector itself been placed at that distance from the hill .
Beachy Head is situated at the eastern extremity of the South Downs ; !
a defect of matter towards the east immediately taking place .
This circumstance ' renders the observations liable to some Small errors , on account of the superior lateral attraction in the -opposite direction ; but , notwithstanding it .
is very Probable that an error induced by either of these attractions , is so very small as to render the subject scarcely worth consideration , yet , as both'lie the same way , it is satisfactory to consider that they mutually tend to ' -eorrect the errors which may result from either ; we may , therefore , safely conclude , that 10 4 1l 36 " is Very nearly the true longitude between the station on B 'achy Head and that on Dunnose .
'Under this persuasion , I consider it probable that the longitude of Black Down cannot err in excess or defect more than 3 " , that of Buts terton s " ; and that of St. Agnes Beacon 6 " .
The latitudes and longitudes of these important stations , brought under one point of view , will be as follows : Latitude .
Longitude west from Greenwich .
In degrees .
In time .
Black Down ' ' ? ?
41 ' 13",8 20 32 ' 2",4 10 ' 9 " , Butterton Hill 50 24 46,3 3 52 47 , 15 , 31,2 St. Agnes Beacon So i8 27 5 11 55,7 20 47,7 Note .
It may probably be expected , that I should determine the directions of the meridians at Black Down , Butterton Hill , and St Agnes Beacon , by calculation , and afterwards compare them with the observed ones .
I have desisted from the measure in the body of the work , and reserved the little I have to say for this note .
If the earth were a perfect sphere , or an ellipsoid of known diameters , the direction of the meridian , at any station not very remotely situated from the parallel of another , might be determined , provided the direction of the meridian at that station were observed , and the value of the arc subtended by the space between them pretty accurately ascertained , and also the latitude of the station , at which the angle is given , nearly obtained .
Thus , if it be requiied to find the angle at Dunnose , between Beachy Head and the meridian , from the observed angle at the latter station , and the arc between them , we shall have 390 15 ' 36",3 , the co-latitude of Beachy Head , and 55 ' 28",7 for the oblique arc .
These data ( two sides and an included angle ) give i0 26 ' 8",4 , for the difference of longitude between Beachy Head and Dunnose , and 310 i6 '.z"A6 , for the angle which the meridian at the latter makes with the former station .
The difference of longitude found in a rather more .
correct way , has been heretofore shown to be 10 z6 47',93 , ( see Philos. Trans. 1795 .
p. 523 , ) and the .
angle at Dunnose was also shown to be 810 56'5 3 " from observation , which may be considered the same with that found by thise mode of computation .
In all cases in which the data were equally correct , no doubt the direction of meridians might be computed , without fear of the results deviating much from the truth ; but , if it be required to find the angle at Black Down , from the observed direction of the meridian at Dunnose , a different method must be used .
It 's , however , less accurate than the-former one , and it has benexpressly-for this reason , , that I have not introduced this subject into the account , p In the'-adjoining diagram , suppose B , Black Down ; D , Dunnose ; and , N , Nine Barrow Down : also , let PB , thw meridian of Black Down , be prolonged to M , and DM be drawn , PM being =PD .
Then we shall have three spherical triangles BPD , BND , and BIMD .
Now , the angle NBD wafound from observations to be 40 30 ' z8l , and BND I72* ... ? ?
27 ' 33'",5 ; these give the angle BDN = 3 ? ?
59",5 , nearly , because the excess of the threoe angles above i8oo is V " .
The 0N observed angle at D , Dunnose , between Nine Barrow-Dowa and the meridian DP , or PDN , was 870 S6 ' 53 ' ; therefore , 87 ? ?
56 ' 53"30 ' 59 " _ 840 54 ' 53 , is the angle at D , between the meridian and the station on Black Dcwii .
Now , the difference of longitude between B and D , or the angle at P , has beea already found = Io 20 ' 46f1,4 ; arid , since BP is very nearly = PD , and BD is small , we shall have rad .
: tang .
2P : : cosine DP cosine BMD 890 aS ' 47 " .
But the angle PDB has been found -84 ? ?
54 ' 53",5 ; therefore , 890 28 ' 47 " _ 840 54f531,5 40o 33 ' 53'5 , the angle BDM ; hence , I$00 2 " x-940 2 ' 40",5 85 57 ' 21 , ( 'S ) or MBD ; therefore , 940 2 ' 38 , " 5S , or DBP , is the angle at Black Down obtained in this 'way , which differs nearly i6 " from the observed one , viz. 940 2 ' 22",75 , It is probable , some portion of this arises from defects in the observation made at Dunnose , on the lights fired at Nine Barrow Down : only two lights were seen ; and , as the observations differed 5 " from each other , some degree of doubt exists , as to the accuracy of the angle .
The angle at Nine Barrow Down , between Black Downand Dunnose , is not absolutely to be depended on for purposes of this kind , although there can be no doubt of its being sufficiently near the truth , for that to which it has been before applied .
In the correction of the angles at that station , in our former accounts , we proceeded on the supposition of their being less satisfactory than the other angles of the triangles to which Nine Barrow Down is a common station .
For these reasons , I am of opinion the computed angle cannot be applied as a test to the observed one ; and it also appears to me , that greater objections lie against similar comparisons between the computed and observed angles at Butterton and St. Agnes ; as those stations could not be seen from each other , nor the latter from Black Down .
Although the computed directions of the meridians differ some seconds from the observed ones , I am by no means doubtful of the truth of the latter ; as the double azimuths of the Pole Star , found from computation , agree very satisfactorily with those which have been used in obtaining the directions of the several meridians .
In finding the value of the oblique arc , or the line which joins Black Down and Dunnose , as used in the first method of computation , I have had recourse to the following correct expression , viz. d ; where d is the length of the required degree , p that of the great P mr-p .
circle perpendicular to the meridian , m that of a degree of the meridian itself , and s the sine of the angle constituted by the oblique arc and the meridian .
ART .
XXxvii .
Latitudes and Longitudes of some remarkable Places , not contained in the preceding Tables .
St. Nicholas 's or Drake 's Island , in Plymouth Sound .
The bearing of Kit Hill , from the meridian of Butterton , is 670 12 ' 12 " , and the angle between it and the flagstaff on Drake 's Island , 410 40 8 " ' ; therefore , the bearing of the latter from the meridian is 710 7 ' ro " ; consequently , its distance from .
the meridian is 60531 feet , and from the perpendicular 20o6g92 feet , which respectively subtend 9 ' 53"6 , and 3j ' 94',5 .
These , with the latitude and longitude of Butterton 50 ' 294 ' 46",3 and 3 ' 52 ' 47",5 , give 500 21 ' 21",1 for the latitude , and 4 8',9 for the longitude , of the flagstaff on Drake 's Island , The latitude and longitude of this spot was delermined by Mr. BAILEY , in the year i 792 .
The observations for the formert were as follows : 500 2 1 ' 2 O0 O'Is LL 50 21 30,5 ditto .
50 21 31 ditto. .
50 21 29 , Aquila2- .
50 21 26,5 a Ophiuchi .
5021 Ms @US .
The mean Of these.is , Oo 21'28",5 .
The place chosen by Mr. BAILEY , as I have been lately in- , formed , was a few feet northward of the staff ; therefore , 7",4 may be taken for the true difference between our determinations .
The longitude of Mr. BAYLEY'S station , found by the moon 's transit , was 40 18 ' 52p " ; but the longitude deduced from the recent operations , is 1g 8 ' t 7",9 ; there is , therefore , a difference : of io ' 34',1 between the .
two determinations .
St. Andrew 's or the Old Church , at Plymouth .
The angle at Butterton , between the Old Church tower and Kit Hill , is 370 45 ' 5",2 ; its bearing , therefore , south-west from the meridian , is 750 1 ' 56 " ; consequently , its distance from the meridian is 57 ?
505 feet , and from the perpendicular 15374 feet .
These respectively subtend 9 ' 24 " , and 2 ' 32",1 : hence , its latitude becomes 5Q0 22 ' 13116 , , and longitude 40 7i ' 313',6 = 16m 3os , l in time , west of Greenwich .
As it is of very great importance that the truths of the conclusions given in this Work should receive support , wherever I can find it , I think it right to mention the result of his Excellency the Count de BRUHL 's endeavours to ascertain the longitude of Plymouth , by means of chronometers .
The following is a copy of his communication , made in the year 1795 .
Journeyfrom Plymouth to London .
Green Timekeeper .
June 8th , J Mr. MUDGE'S clock* at Plymouth , fast for mean time Om 32',15 1783 .
1Timekeeper faster than Mr. MUDGE'S"CIOCk _0 25,6 h [ Timekeeper slower than London clock _ 14 29 '4 i4tb .
* London clock slow for mean time o 36,5 Difference of longitude 1 i6 3,65 Blue Timekeeper .
June 8th [ lfMr .
MUD GE'S clock at Plymouth , fast for mean time Om 32s,15 'jTimekeeper faster than Mr. MUDGE 's clock _0 37,4 1 4th .
Timekeeper slower than London clock _ 14 17,2 lLondon clock slow for mean time o 36,5 Difference of longitude 16 3,25 Mean difference i6 3,55 The longitude of St. Paul 's , west of Greenwich , is 23 ' , i in time ; and Mr. DUTTON'S house in Fleet-street is about 2s west of St. Paul 's * wherefore , its longitude west of Greenwich is 25 : consequently , i6m 3s,5 + -s i6m 298,55 , is the difference of longitude between Greenwich and Plymouth , as shown by the timekeepers .
Now the meridian of Mr. MUDGE'S transit-room , at Plymouth , passed only 35 feet to the eastward of the centre of St. Andrew 's Tower , his northern meridian mark being on the church itself ; therefore , the longitude of the church and transit-room may be considered the same .
From the survey , we find it to be 16m.os- , ; and , from Count BRtuHL 's determination , making a just allowance for the difference of longitude between the late Mr. DUTTON 's house and Greenwich , bym 28s,5 .
It is left for the public , and this [ earned Society in particular , to determine how far the near agreement of these several methods , tends to corroborate the assertion I have advanced of the dependence which may be placed on the deductions drawn from the observations made at Beachy Head and Dunnose .
If there had been only one watch employed on the occasion , the result would not have been so satisfactory as the circumstance of two being used seems to make it .
As the occasion calls for the remark , before I dismiss this article , I must observe , that the highest advantages would accrue to geography , were the ideas of the Astronomer Royal carried into execution , ( and which I shall endeavour to do at some future period , ) respecting the discovery of the difference of longitude between Greenwich and some very remote point on the western side of the island , ( St. David 's Head for instance , ) by means of timekeepers , According to HoRwOODDIs Map of Londoni , the distance from the centre of St. Paul 's to Bolt Court , at the corner of which Mr. DUTTON'S house is situated , is x chains .
carried backwards and forwaxdb in the mail coaches* .
If this excellent scheme were executed , and the watches employed equal to the best now made , it is probable that the true difference of longitude would shortly be determined .
The geodetical situation of St. David 's HIead will , ere long , be ascertained from a prosecution of the survey : a knowledge , therefore , of its true longitude would be attended with eminent advantages .
Lizard Light-Houses .
The light-houses on this head-land were observed from Pertinney and Karnbonellis .
At the latter , Pertinney bears 74 ?
B ?
et 41 " south-west , from the parallel to the meridian of St. Agnes ; and , as the angle between the western light-house and Pertinney is 78 ' 40 ' 5 " , itfollows , that the bearing of the lighthouse from the said parallel is 4 " 17 ' 24 " south-east .
Computing with this angle and the distance from Karnbonellis to the lighthouse , we get 3344 feet , and 126499 feet , for the distances of that object from the meridian and perpendicular of St. Agnes : therefore , admitting ; the length of the degree in the meridian , in the middle point between St. Agnes and the light-house , to be 60850 fathoms , and 6i 182 for the length of a degree of a great circle perpendicular to it , we get 20 ' 47",4 , and 32",8 for the small arcs which those spaces respectively subtend .
These data , with the latitude and longitude : of St. Agnes , 50 " 18 ' 27 " , and 50 i1 ' 55",7 , give the -latitude of the light-house = 490 57 ' ~4 " , and longitude west of Greenwich ?
ii ' 4",8i in time , 20on 44',3 .
This lighthouse was also observed from the station on Karnminnis .
The triangle resulting from that observation , together with the angle at Karnbonellis , is Karnminnis 4f ' 9 ' 46 " Karnbonellis 98 1 go Western Light-house 37 48 44 ; which gives 81342 feet , for the distance between the station Karnbonellis and the Light-house .
This distance is said , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1797 , p. 501 , to be 8i3+8 feet , which differs only 6 feet from the above determination ; but it is probable the distance first given is most correct , as the two light-houses appearing nearly in the same line at Karnminnis , was the means of preventing us from clearly distinguishing the apex of either , .
and it was principally on this account that we preferred the observation made at Pertinney .
The agreement however proves , hat no inconsistency can be found to obtain with respect to the data before given , for settling the situation of this important headland .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1797 , page 502 , it is mentioned , that the distance from the spot where the late Mr. BRADLEY made his observations , to the place where his meridian mark was fixed , was 8oo feet .
But there appears to be some inconsistency in this particular ; as Mr. BRADLEY'S own words , inX an extract of a letter now before rie , are , it was just 48o feet .
Adding to this , 24 feet , the distance between the place of the meridian mark and the line joining the centre of the lighthouses , we get the distance of the point 0 , or the place of the Observatory , ( see Phil. rfrans .
1797 , p. 502 , ) from the line joining the light-houses W. , E , = 504 feet ; a space corresponding to S " of latitude , nearly therefore , from the trigonometrical operations , we get , 490 57 ' 4 " for the latitude and , id A,8 for the longitudeJ of Mr. BRADLEY'S Station MDccc .
4 R Mr. BRADLEY'S observations for finding the latitude , were made with a quadrant of one foot radius , the workmanship of Mr. BIRD( ; theywere as follows .
Nine meridional altitudes of the sun 's limb , the extreme results of which were 490 57'27"',5 and 490 57 ' 44 " , gave for the latitude of the Observvatory 49 57 ' 35 " Six meridional observations of the Pole Star belowlThe .
Pole , the extreme results of which were 4~9 57 ' 5 and 490 57 ' 20",4 , gave for the latitude 49 57 23,2 Thirteen observations of Arcturus , a Coronae Borealis , and a Serpentis , the extreme results of which were 490 577 ' 4",7 and 49 57 ' 2",7 , gave for the latitude 49 57 -29 Fifteen observations of a. , jp , *y Draconis , the extreme results of which were -90 571 22",2 and 490 57 ' 2"7 , gave for the latitude 49 57 33 The mean of which is 49 57 30 According to the trigonometrical operations , the latitude is 490 57 ' 44 " ; there is , *therefore , a difference of 14 " between the results ; a quantity so large as justly to excite surprise , if it were not generally understood , that much dependence cannot be placed on observations made with an astronomical quadrant precisely similar to that made use of by Mr. BRADLEY .
The extreme results in the above , differ so widely as to authorise the truth of the supposition on this occasion .
The longitude of the Lizard was determined by the transit of Venus , Sun 's eclipse , transit of the Moon , and two emersions of Jupiter 's first satellite , as particularly set forth in the Prefaceto the Nautical Ephemeris of 1791 .
The conclusions were as follows .
Four transits of the Moon , calculated by Mr. WALES , gave for thelongitude 20m 3os 6 Two emersions of Jupiter 's first satellite , Calculated -by ditto 21 14,5 FDoctor MASKELYNE 20 57 , ?
Transit of Venus , calculated byr Mr. WITCHELL 20 56 ; S Mr. WALES 20 57 0 rMr WITCHELL 20 44,5 IMr .
SEJOUR .
20 45 , Sun 's eclipse , calculated by Mr EUR 20 59 1 Mr. EULER 20 5S9 20 Oar .
IJEXEL 20 51,0 Mean of the whole 20 12 From the trigonometrical operations , we find the longitude in time to be 20m 44S,3 ; there is , therefore , a difference of 7s,82 between these different determinations : this is , probably , as near as we could have expected to find it ; yet it can scarcely besupposed , that of this difference , more than 2s can be laid to the account of the survey .
In the Philosophical Transactions for I797 , P. 502 , it is observed , that angles were taken at the Lizard Light-house and Naval Signal-Staff , to determine the situation of the Point itself .
This Point , marked P in the diagram , makes an angle of 2 ? ?
23 ' 16 " S W , with the parallel to the meridian of St. Agnes at the station on Karnbonellis , and is therefore 636,6 feet from that meridian , and 126394 feet from the perpendicular ; therefore 490 57 ' 40",6 is the latitude of the Lizard Point .
, and 5 11 46 the longitudeo Scilly Islands .
To determine the distances of the objects in these islands , from the stations snear the Land 's End , with sufficient accuracy , proper corrections were made for reducing Ethe ` horizontal angles to those formed by the chords .
On the present occasion ; it will be right to use the horizontal , and not the -chard angles ; the distances from the meridians , and from their perpendiculars , being computed on the supposition of the earth 's surface being a plane , which , within the limits of our fixed meridians , may be considered as true .
The angles for finding the distances of these objects are given in the Philosophical Transactions for 1 797 , p. 503 ; from whence , and the data contained in thisWork , we get the bearing of.~ ~~~~~~~~~t.ua 7 .
44.51 S the Day-mark in the Island of F St. Buryan 7ne 44y , SW St. Martin 's from ; Pertinney 71 14 22 SW St.-Martin 's from ' Sennen 9 SW which , combined with the distances of the stations from the meridian of St. Agnes , give 260 feet , for the distance of the Day-mark from the 24682 j meridian of St. Agnes ; and 1262409 l : 122410 feet , for the distance of it from the perpendicular .
The mean of the first is 246809 feet , and the mean of the last 1 2241 feet ; but the latter becomes 122419 , because a line Orawn from the Day-mark , perpendicular to the meridian of St. Agnes , cuts that meridian eight feet below the parallel .
Again , we get the bearing of the Windmill in the Island of St. f Pertinney 65 ' 32 ' 30 ' SW the Flagstaff of the Fort f Mary , from Pertinney 66 53 5S W from whence , after a similar correction with that just made , we find the distance of the Windmill 256304 feet from the jl3597 feet from the perpendicular of the Flagstaff .
261oi52 j meridian .
, and 140876 St. Agnes .
From the same .
page , .
and the data furnished in this work , we also find the bearing of St. Agnes Light , Sennen 68 ' 6 ' 54 " S\V House from St. Buryan 69 5 56 S W ; which gives 26586587}feet , for the distance from the meridian , and 1 49121 }feet , for the distance from the perpendicular of St. Agnes .
149128 The mean of the first is 26 872 feet , and the mean of the last , when corrected , 149133 feet .
With the above data , and also the latitude and longitude of St. Agnes , we get ( Day-mark in St. Martin 's 49~58 ' 2",9 the latitude of Windmill , St. Mary 's 49 54 32,7 Flagstaff , ditto 49 54 59,1 L St. Agnes Light-House*49 53 36,8 In Time Day-mark 10 2'43 ' , 1 from the meri60 I4 38',8 -24n 5 8s , ( and longitude westJ Windmill I5 3,2 dian of Green-4 66 58 7 25 75 from St. Agnes .
Flagstaff j6 2,7 wich6 17 57 4 25 II IC LightHouse 17 27,7 .
6 19 23,4 25 21 , &lt; The Observatory of his Grace the Duke of MARLBOROUGH , at Blenheim .
The staff erected over the quadrant , was observed from White Horse Hill and Whiteham Hill .
At " theformer station , the latter makes an angle of 360 3o ' i3",5 , with the parallel to the meridian of Dunnose .
The staff , therefore ) bears from the parallel 250 59 ' 29",75 N E. consequently , its distance from the meridian of Dunnose ; is 36540 feet , and from the perpendicular 446458 feet .
These respectivelysubtend,5'5,8",3 , and 10 13'21"4 , ; therefore , the latitude of the Observatory is Bo 50 ' 28",3 , and its longitude 9 ' 99",9 from Dunnose : but 10 1 1 ' 36 " is the longitude of that station ; therefore , 10 21 15 " ,9 , or 525 " , Q , in time , is the longitude of the Observatory west from Greenwich .
As the meridian of Dunnose passes at no great distance from that of Blenheim , I have deduced the latitude and longitude from the former , to avoid the -errors which creep in , when computa- , tions are carried on from remote meridians .
It may be worth while , however , to show that the extent of those errors would not be great , were the meridian of Dunnose neglected , and the Observatory at Blenheim referred to the meridian of Greenwic .
h The distanceof White Horse-Hill from the meridian of GreenWich is found to be 356050 feet , and from : its perpendicular 39425 feet ; the bearing of Nuffield , from the parallel at that station , being 89059/ 27/ / SE .
Blenheim will , therefore , be found to bear 26Q 55 ' 25 " NO from the parallelat White Horse -Hill ; consequently , its distance from the meridian of Greenwich is 307224 set , and from its perpendicular 135569 feet .
These give the arcs so ' 12 ' ?
, and I2'-G , i ; .
from whence we gget 510 50 ' 28 , 1 for the latitude , and i ' 21 ' i6"for the longitude , of the Observatory Crest of Greenwich .
Either of these determinations may be taken for the true result , but I shall prefer the first .
Being favburedl by his Grace with the latitude and longitude derived from astronomical observations , we have the following comparisons : Degrees .
Tire .
Latitude f observed '51 ?
50 ' 24"tq Longitude west 10 zI ' 6"1 , o 50 z4 ' l computed Sz 5f r8 jI from Greenwich .
X 2I IS 5 25 , I Observatoiy at Oxford .
The angle at the station on Shotover , between the Atlas on the top of the Observatory and the parallel to the meridian of Dunnose , is 79g o ' 51",75 N W : therefore , its distance from the meridian is 14719 feet , and from the perpendicular 416985 feet .
The figure representing Atlas is 33 feet due east of the Quadrant Room ; consequently , no correction will be required in the computed latitude .
The space 14719 feet subtends an arc 2 ' 2g ' 4,3 , and 416985 feet an arc of 10 8 ' o",8 .
8 These data , with the latitude and longitude of Duninose , give 510 45 38 " for the latitude , and 10 15 ' 29",2 for the longitude , of the Observatory .
As in the former case , with respect to Blenheim , so inI the present instance , it is immaterial whether the calculations be carried on from the meridian of GreenwichI or that of Dunnose , as differences of only / 1,1 in both the latitude and longitude are found in the results .
The latitudeand longitude of this Observatory are given in the Requisite 'Tables ; the first is 51O 45 ' 38 " , and the last 10 15 ' 30 " , or dim 2S in time .
Doctor HORNSBY , however , has furnished me with what he conceives to be more accurate determinations ; from which , and the above , we have the following comparisons Degrees .
Time , { observed 51045 ' 39",5 Longitude west 1f 15 ' ' 22/ 1,5 Sm Isg Lattude lcomputed 51 45 38 ofrom Greenwich .
I x5 29 , Z 5II conclude this article with expressing an opinion , that the coincidence between the computed and , no doubt , accurately observed longitude of this Observatory , affirds strong reason for supposing , that the operations at Beachy Head and Dunnose , in 1794 , for finding the length of a degree of a great circle perpendicular to the meridian on the earth 's surface , were made with the required accuracy .
SECTION THIRD .
Trigonometrical Surveys of the Northern and Western Parts of Kent , the County of Essex , and Parts of the adjoining Counties , Svffolk and Hertford , executed in the rears 1798 and 1 7-0 ( See Plate XXXII .
) It will be convenient to treat of the operations carried on in the north of Kent and Essex , before , we speak of those executed in the western parts of the former county. .
In a former article I have observed , that from the old station at Wrotham , ( General RoY 's , ) the view towards the north is obstructed , and also that it became necessary to select a new one : this station was found to be 20- , feet from the other ; the dis ... tance was accurately measured , and afterwards the angle taken at the old station , between the staff on Severndroog Tower , The angle at Danbury , between Southweald and Hatfield Broad Oak , was found to be 54 ? ?
44 !
30 " .
The distances from Danbury to Southweald and Hatfield Broad Oak have been already found , the former being 7762a feet , and the latter 85o96 feet ; from these we get the triangle , X Danbury 5444 !
3Of Southweald 67 42 S Hatfield Broad Oak 57 33 250 , which gives 75104 feet , for the distance between Hatfield Broad Oak and Southweald Steeples .
In order to connect the preceding triangles with those carried on for the survey of the south-western part of Essex , and of Hertfordshire , stations were selected on Hampstead Heath , and on Highbeech in Epping Forest , to which the great theodolite was taken , as related in the article detailing the particulars of the operations in 1799 .
The triangles making this connection are the following .
The first , namely , Severndroog Tower 28 58 ' io ' Southweald 94 49 5 Langdon Hill.6 xz 4S , is had from the included angleg at Severndroog Tower , 280 58 ' xO " , and the sides Severndroog Tower and Southweald , Severadroog Tower and Langdon Hill : the first is 73787 feet , and the second 88470 feet .
From these data , we obtain the distance between the station on Langdon Hill and that on Southweald Steeple , 4300 !
feet .
Names of Stations .
Observed Distances .
angles .
_ , J ' Feet .
Severndroog Tower 24 24 35 t Brentwood 78553* Langdon Hill 62 26 39 366I6 Brentwood Steeple Severndroog Tower 4J 33 29 Brentwood 7 { 7 3* Brentwood Foot of the cross on the dome of St. Paul 's from the station on Severndroog Tower 39962* .
Phil. Trans. for 1787 .
p. 250 .
Severndroog Tower 1 24 Highbeech Highbeesb ~~~354 Hgheeh713 St. Pal ' 5I2 i Highbeecb _____ ______________ Severndroog Tower | 44 34 Southweald 73795 Highbeech ~ 53 13 Jotwel { 515 SoMtbweald M.DCC ; C. 4 T ART .
XLV .
Particulars respecting the Altitudes of the Stations .
The height of the station on Trevose Head , above the surface of the sea at low water , was determined in 1797 , by levelling .
The transit instrument was used for the purpose ; and there is reason to believe the result , 274.O feet , is within a very few inches of the truth .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1797 , p. 471 , the height of the station Qn Maker Heights .
is said to be 402 feet ; this was also found by levelling .
The altitude of St. Agnes Beacon , determined from that station , is 599 feet ; ( see the same volume and page ; ) but , if the calculation be made from the base of altitude at Trevose Head , the height of that station , above the level of the sea , will be 621 feet , which gives a difference of 22 feet .
It must be recollected , however , that in the first result , the computation was carried through two intermediate stations , which gave three arcs , and as many mean refractions ; and , considering the extreme variableness to which refractions are liable , we are assuredly not to consider 22 feet deviation from the truth as a large quantity .
Besides St. Agnes Beacon , the altitudes of Cadon Barrow , Brown Willy , Hensbarrow , and Bodmin Down , have been determined from that of Trevose Head .
Of the remaining stations , some are derived from Maker Heights , others from Dunnose : most of them are mean results , that is , each station has generally been found two ways ; and , as it will serve to show what errors proceed from irregularity of refraction , and imperfection of observation , I shall exhibit a few particulars in relation to them .
therefore , supposing that fall to be gradual and constant , all the way from the latter station to the surface of the sea at Bridgewater Bay , we shall get 4y feet , for the height of Lugshorn Corner from the surface of the sea .
The altitude of this station , deduced from that of Trevose Head , is 49 feet ; and , subtracting 3 feet from it , ( the height of the bank on which the instrument stood above the moor , ) we get 46 feet for the height of the moor at Lugshorn Corner , above the level of the sea at Bridgewater Bay .
But this height , supposing the fall regular , is proved to be 24 feet .
There is , therefore , a difference of 22 feet , granting the whole of this to be an error on the side of the survey : but , as the general surface of the moor at Bridgewater Bay is several feet above the surface of the sea , we may take a moiety of 24 feet , for the error of the computed height of the , station at Lugshorn Corner .
ART .
XLVI .
Matters relating to Rjfraction .
The refractions contained in this account , like those in our former Papers , tend to prove , that when rays of light pass horizontally , and considerably distant from the surface of the earth , they are less bent or refracted from their rectilinear courses , than theory and opinion have laid down as fact .
It is very certain , however , that objection lies against particular conclusions drawn from such data as we possess ; because the angles of elevation and depression of corresponding stations are observed at different times , and almost always , therefore , under different circumstances ; but , with the experience and continual practice of thus obtaining means of computing these refractions , although we may not be able to determine the refracting power of the air under given circumstances , yet , as the causes which render 4L 7Z it variable , are as likely to predominate when the angles of depression or elevation are observed from low stations as when observed from high ones , we may be enabled to make some general deductions.* When the instrument formerly made use of by General Roy was entrusted to my care , I possessed the means of determining , in a more accurate manner than had yet been done , the refractive power of the air near the horizon .
To devote much time to it , has not , as yet , been in my power ; because a more rapid extension of the survey was an object of greater importance .
I did not , however , lose any opportunity which the subsequent season offered ; the first was , when the instruments were at White Horse Hill and Whiteham Hill ; the second , when one was stationed at Brill and the other at Arbury Hill ; and the third opportunity offered itself , when one party was stationed at the latter place and the other at Wendover .
" On these occasions , the instructions which I communicated to 'Mr .
'WooLco , and by which I governed myself , were to observe the elevation or depression of the corresponding station at the expiration of every hour , beginning at six A. M. and to have the watch well regulated from observed altitudes of the sun 's limb .
I requested him also to be very minute in entering on his book the state of the weather ; to keep the instrument properly sheltered from the wind ; to be always cautious to adjust his level ; and also to insert the state of the air , as to temperature and density , by noting the thermometer and barometer .
During the time we were at the two first stations , White Horse and Whiteham Hills , there was only one day when the air was suf-ficiently clear for the purpose ; this was the 6th of June .
On that day , the following observations were made at the same time as shown by signal Wbiteham Hill .
) un 6th , '79g .
Hours .
Wh Horse H. BaromeThermo .
Remarks .
Elevat.d .
ter .
meter .
IN In .
pts Degrees .
364 29,73o 60.3 Light airs at SW. Sun not shining ; remarkably clear .
46 24 29,724 6z,5 Ditto .
Ditto ditto .
56 1+ 29,723 58,7 Ditto .
Ditto ditto. .
66 10 29,732 58,5 Ditto .
Ditto ditto .
761Z 29.728 57,5 Ditto .
Ditto ditto .
86 21 29,732 57 Very calm , and cloudy , but clear .
#95 37 29,736 5 Ditto .
Lamp at Shotover very bright .
Dew falling .
l1o 5 39 29,740 555 Ditto .
Ditto .
To determine the refractions On the first arc , White Horse and Whiteham Hills , we have the distance between those stations 88662,2 feet , which subtends an arc of 1zj ' 3cz nearly .
To determine those on the second , we have the distance between Brill and Arbury Hill 146530 feet , subtending an arc of 24 ' 3",9 : those on the third , Wendover and Arbury Hill , 21o628 feet =34'5 " ; and , for finding the refractions from the two last tables , we have the distance from Broadway Beacon to Epwell 8o6i 1,4 feet , which subtends an arc of 13'-1 ' nearly .
The depressions and elevations were all taken to the ground , excepting those which are marked with asterisks .
At White Horse Hill and Whiteham Hill , lamps were used at the hours of 9 and lo : they were also made use of at Arbury Hill and Brill at 9 o'clock .
In the first instances , the lamps were placed ( the centres of them ) 1i feet from the bottoms of the respective instruments ; and in the last 2feet .
The height of the transittelescope above the ground was always 5feet ; therefore , an allowance must be made , at each station , for the angle which that space subtends at its corresponding one ; this premised , the refraction will be found from one of the two following rules , viz. if A be the contained arc , and Dd the observed depressions , the quantity answering to the refraction , R , will be expressed by A ; or , if one of the angles should be an elevation , e , then R _ ?
ed : these rules give the 2 refractions in the following table .
On examining the refractions obtained on the first arc , we perceive them to have been tolerably regular from 3 o'clock till 8 ; the mean being T.2 , part of the contained arc .
The height of Whiteham Hill is 576 feet , and that of White Horse Hill 893 feet , above the level of the sea : the ray passes , therefore , through a tract of air considerably elevated , as the country between the stations is , for the most part , flat and low .
The air is not often clear enough , or sufficiently free from tremulous motions , for these delicate observations .
On the present occasion , however , the state of it was highly fit for the purpose ; and , as care was taken , I am of opinion an error of more than 3 " , taking that of the arch of altitude into the account , cannot have obtained in any of the angles .
The refractions at 9 and 1o o'clock are less than at the preceding hours ; but this does not appear to have been owing to any change in the refractive power of the air throughout the whole extent of the ray , because the depression of Whiteham Hill , from the other station , varied little at those hours .
These changes in the observed angles of elevation at Whiteham , ( 44 ' and 42 " being the differences , ) without corresponding ones at White Horse Hill , prove that somepartial alteration , from floating strata , had taken place in the refraction near the former station .
Whoever considers the matter , must perceive a case may be constructed in which this will take place , causing a great variation in one of the angles , whilst the other apparently remains the same : and this suggested the idea , that to afford any accurate conclusions in this way , a long series of observations would be necessary .
It furthermore appears , that dew could not have caused these differences at Whiteham Hill , since the , same cause would equally operate to vary the observed angles at White Horse Hill ; but those remained nearly the same .
The refractions on the second and third arcs , I consider as most accurate , on account of the great distance between the stations ; and also as more to be depended on , from the circumstance of the ray generally passing 0oo feet above the ground .
The fourth arc affords another instance of the refraction varying at one station , and remaining constant at the other .
This , no doubt , was owing to the intervention of some partial stratum of air , nearer to Epwell than Broadway Beacon .
The refractions , deduced from these contemporary observations are certainly inconclusive .
The mean refractions , ( neglecting the fourth arc ) brought under one point of view , will be as follows .
Mean height of ray above Refraction .
Arcs .
the sea .
Propi .
pt .
Barorn .
Therm. Feet , in .
pts. .
White Horse Hill and Whiteham 734 , 29,5 j7,8 2 .
Arbury H. and Brill , 5 first refracs .
77 0,6 2 , 67,8 3 .
Arbury Hill and Wendover 854 -,2 28,858,1 If the air had been in a quiescent state , previous to and also at the times when these observations were made , it might be expected that the differences of altitudes in the stations would be obtained , tolerably near the truth , barometrically .
The remarks in the tables appertaining to the first and second arcs , show that such opportunities offered ; but those which belong to the third , prove the wind to have been fresh ; and , as the space between the stations which constitute the extremities of that arc is 34 miles , nearly , it is not to be expected that a true result should be obtained .
The differences of altitudes of the stations constituting the extremities of the two first arcs , obtained by means of the observed angles of elevation and depression , as well as from the heights of the mercury in the barometer , will be as follows .
Arcs .
Obs. Ang .
Barom. Diff. 1 317 282 35 2 6o 15 45 The little done on this subject , points outs the necessity of doing more ; it therefore remains with me to observe , that I shall lose no opportunity of employing the apparatus committed.to my charge in the best and most diligent manner , both as -relating to matters of refraction , and to all others connected with the .
Trigonometrical Survey .
In the Introduction , page 540 , it is stated that this Account would be comprised in three Sections , but it was afterwards thought more convenient to divide it into , four .
In Page 583 , line penult .
del and Prittlewell .
665 , x4 , for 1792 , read 177a .

