4 .
" On the Corpuscles of the Blood .
" Part III .
By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.SS .
L. and E. After remarking that no clear conception has hitherto existed of the mode in which the floating corpuscles of the blood conduce to nou ?
rishment , the author states that he has found every structure he has examined to arise out of corpuscles having the same appearance as the corpuscles of the blood .
The following are the tissues which he has submitted to actual observation , and which have given the above result , namely , the cellular , the nervous , and the muscular ; besides cartilage , the coats of blood-vessels , several membranes , the tables and cells of the epithelium , the pigmentum nigrum , the ciliary processes , the crystalline lens itself , and even the spermatozoon and the ovum .
The author then traces the nucleus of the blood-corpuscle into the pus-globule ; showing that every stage in the transition presents a definite figure .
The formation of the pus-globule out of the nucleus of the blood-corpuscle is referable to the same process , essentially , as that by means of which the germinal spot comes to fill the germinal vesicle in the ovum .
This process , which , in a former memoir , he had traced in the corpuscles of the blood , he now shows to be universal , and nowhere more obvious than in the reproduction of the tables of the epithelium .
The epithelium-cylinder seems to be constituted , not by coalescence of two objects previously single , as has been supposed , but by division of a previously single object .
Certain objects , called by the author primitive discs , exhibit an inherent contractile power , both when isolated , and when forming parts of a larger object ; an incipient epithelium-cylinder having been observed by him to revolve by this means .
Molecular motions are sometimes discernible within corpuscles of the blood .
The author has no ?
ticed young blood-corpuscles exhibiting motions , comparable to the molecular , and moving through a considerable space ; and he has met with the nuclei of blood-corpuscles endowed with cilia , revol ?
ving , and performinglocomotion .
In his first paper on the Corpuscles of the Blood , he described certain instantaneous changes in form which he had observed in blood-corpuscles , and afterwards expressed his belief , that these changes were referable to contiguous cilia , although he had not been able to discern any such cilia .
He now states that subsequent observation inclines him to think that these changes in form arise from some inherent power , distinct from the motions occasioned by cilia .
The primitive disc , just mentioned , seems to correspond , in some instances , with the " cytoblast " of Schleiden .
Thus the very young corpuscle of the blood is a mere disc ; but the older corpuscle is a cell .
The author minutely describes the mode of origin of the pigmentum nigrum ; showing that it arises in a similar manner in the tail of the tadpole , and in the choroid coat of the eye .
He had before described the Graafian vesicle as formed by the addition of a covering to the previously-existing ovisac : this covering , he afterwards stated , becomes the corpus luteum .
He now confirms these observations , with the addition , that it is the blood-corpuscles entering into the formation of the covering of the ovisac , which give origin to the corpus luteum .
The spermatozoon appears to be composed of a few coalesced discs .
The fibres of the crystalline lens are not elongated cells , as supposed by Schwann ; but coalesced cells , at first arranged in the same manner as beads in a necklace .
The author concludes with the following recapitulation : ? ?
1 .
The nucleus of the corpuscle of the blood admits of being traced into the pus-globule .
2 .
The various structures arise out of corpuscles ha ?
ving the same appearance , form , and size as corpuscles of the blood .
3 .
The corpuscles having this appearance , and giving origin to structures , are propagated by division of their nuclei .
4 .
The cor ?
puscles of the blood , also , are propagated by division of their nuclei .
5 .
The minuteness of the young blood-corpuscles is sometimes extreme ; and they are to be found in parts usually considered as not being permeable by red blood .
In a postscript , the author adds , that blood found in the heart immediately after death by bleeding , presents incessant alterations in the position of its corpuscles .
Among these , when a single corpus ?
cle is examined very attentively , it is seen to change its form ; and the author is disposed to think it is this change of form that produces the alterations in position .
The changes in form are slight , compared with those previously described by him as observed in blood elsewhere , and are not seen without close attention .
The motions resemble those called molecular ; and in the minutest corpuscles , which are mere points , nothing besides molecular motion can be discerned .
It may be a question , the author thinks , whether molecular motion differs in its nature from the motion of the larger corpuscles just referred to .
The division of the blood-corpuscles into corpuscles of minuter size , though apparent in blood from either side of the heart , has seemed more general in that from the left side ; which , it is suggested , is perhaps deserving of notice in connexion with the subject of respiration .

