]\gt ; 1877 .
] On the Transformation of Leucoline into Aniline .
siu II .
Studies in the Chinoline Series.\mdash ; I. Trnnsformation of Leucoline into Aniline .
, By Prof. JAMES DEWAR .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. WILLIAMSON , Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society .
Reccived February 19 , 1877 .
In a on the pyridine series of bases the formation and properties of idinic acid were described .
This acid is to the same nner as phthalic acid to .
It was then pointed out that the members of the pyridine and chinoline series benl .
to one another similar tion 1 that of benzol and aline , the logies bein given:\mdash ; Benzol .
racene .
Pyridine .
Chinoline .
ellHion of promised in of these theoleticil edge of the oline series has made little progress sincs the nlasterly f exhaustive investigntion of ille l , proving the isomerism of the tar bases .
The relatlons of these bodies arc slill very obscure , ) to the bility of the bases the formation of derivatives of simplcr t.ype .
Indeed some of the most interesting products ined from these bases , such as 1 ' ' On the 0xidation Products of Picoline Trans. Royal Soc. Edinb .
vol. xxvi .
, Soc. Edinb .
vol. Prof. J. Dewar on the [ Mar. 15 , blue colouring-matter cyanine , have a more complicated structure , dl attempts to reach gradationally simpler substances of known constitution having been unsatisfactory .
Gerhardt remarked that ' ' En general re'actions de la quinoleine sont fort peu nettes\ldquo ; * .
It is the object of this communication to render the relations of this substance a little more definite .
In the paper above referred to it was that pyridins might be obtained by the distillation of ridi acid soda-lime ; and as the acid had been made from the oxidation of picoline this may be regarded as a means of passing from the six-to the five-carbon base .
It seemed , therefore , important to ascertain if the members of chinoline series yielded on oxidation similnr acid , and if a simpler bnse could be obtained by it to a like treatment .
In order to carry oub this investigation , a quantity of the crude high boiling-point bases in procured , and fter repeated fractionation O the scale was treated the following mallner , to ensure its freedom from rrols , Ilols , and high boiling-point hydrocnrbons .
The bases ere dissol ) ed in strong nitric acid , separated by means of soda , distilled , and treated nitric acid .
The additio ] ] of tities of arsenious acid to the solutiollV as confor some hours .
The bases now liberated from the solution of the ctioually distilled , and the specimens boiling between 22 C. and C. regarded as pure leucoline .
It has been satisfactorily proved b.y that no amount of tional tion will vield chemically pure embers of this series : so that this product must be regarded as a mixed of leucoline and iridolinc , the names to the in coal-tnr isomeric ith the chinoline { lepidine obtained from cinchona .
Tn rious experiments specimens were used which had been more refully factionated , ( -point not more than2o C. ; but the products obtained were in cases The mode hich the oxidation was conducted similar in ] respccts to that described in former paper ; but the high boiling-point of the base and the rapidity of the action rendered the use of the con- denaer unnecessar. .
The general method of was as :\mdash ; 12 !
) of leucoline an equivalent of } the solntion diluted to 600 cubic .
This divided into three parts , to each of which ndded a hot solution of 100 rams lifre of ith constant too orons : actio Ina inufes whole of the is rednced , the solution , v-hich to bc neutral , ing beeJl made } ] filtered of tneseb and } aporal e to a sm bulk , hen proportion of the sudphate of on cooling .
The liquor acidulated dilute sulp c a de c. 1877 .
] Transformation of Leucoline into Aniline .
67 resinous mixture of acids separates .
The crude acids may also be obtained as potash salts by evaporting to dryness the product of the reaction { ctiou alcohol .
The queous solution of these potash salts , on the addition of acetate of lead , yields a hite in lead salt from the acids may also be separated .
The crude mixture of acids thus obtained , boiled vater for a contime and filtered from an oily matter , yields , aftPr treatment with a little animal charcoal , crystals of a well-defined acid .
Leucolinic Acid , \mdash ; The crystalline substance obtained ; above described is mainly composed of this acid , which may be obtained in colourless plates or needles by a few crystallizations .
The acid melts at 16 C. , is slowlyvolatilized when heated to 11 C. in a current of hydrogen , and communicates a characteristic aromatic odour to the vapour from a hot aqueous solution .
The ncid may be most conveniently crystallized from an tion , being slightly in cold water .
Although soluble in alcohol and efher the ncid nerally rered slightly coloured , from an apprvrent oxidntion , these llcnstrua .
The s$lts of for the llost part more notable exceptions the lead , mercurous , salts .
The silver snlt crystallizcs in -shaped Analyses of different specimens of the acid yielded esults : Acid .
1 .
11 .
III .
Veight of acid anhydride produced . .
Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
centesimally these figures :\mdash ; Carbon . . . . . .
HydrogeJl .
Silver Snlt .
I. If .
III .
Weight of Carbonic anhydrith produced .
Water produced . . . . . . . . . . .
} .US50 Silver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; \mdash ; Calculated centesimnlly these figures :\mdash ; Carbon . . . . . . . .
Silver . . . . . . . . . .
3 A quantity of the salt , eighing gran ] .
, Iefl gram of silver , corresponding to per Gollliel ) slnethod to carbonie anhydride produced io or I to 1 and 1 Prof. J. Dewar on the [ Mar. 15 An bsolute dtion of the results:\mdash ; Weight of acid taken . . . . . . .
Volum of nitrogen at C. 760 millimetres Weight of nitrogen . . . . . . . . .
This gives the of nitrog by theory .
The acid used in this the quantity too for an quivalent of the Acid.\mdash ; A tifrated with pure caustic solut hich contained 23 milligrnms of lnetres of this solution to alize t the equivnlent of the aoid is 179 .
Professor has kindly determ constants:\mdash ; " " The acid crystallizes from solution of ether in tufts of thin plates show the form of fig. 1 .
" " The face is the only one is largely developed .
They clcave readily plane at right filges to .
The faces are equally inclined to , their normals making an angle of about with of .
The nol.mals to , mal1e an angle of about .
The normal to face is inclined to that of at about ' ' Many of the crystals do not the faces , but are termiby faces paralle ] to .
Some bhow some bmaller facets at the ' ' asionally t with the parallel to the edge at gles to The to ) to oblicluo prismatic stcnJ , the inclined in a pl ' ' The uncerlainty nbout the except .
D. L. Transformation of Leucoline into Aniline .
The may be regarded as formed by one or other of the viug eactious ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ; probably represents the chief source of the acid .
perectly pure leucoline free from traces of iridoline would the must , however , in the mean time remain an opell question , as quantities of material are required to procure the pure base .
The yield of acid only amounts to three per cent. of the bases used .
positio)of the Acid .
Action of heat.\mdash ; The acid heated Lpidly above its melting-point becomes dark brown , evolves water , and gives an oily sublimate ultimately solidifies , leaving a mass of porous carbon .
The acid sublimate , probably contains the dride , boiled water regenerates the acid .
of soda-li , no .\mdash ; The acid heated with soda-lime to a low red heat leaves a deposit of carbon yields an alkalin oily distillate .
This oil is soluble in dilute hydrochloric , and the characteristic reactions of pyrrol .
solution leaves the hydrochlorates of the bases as a hne mass , which , after several solutions and evaporations with dilute hydrochloric acid , is freed from pyrrol .
The hydrochlorates of the basic substances produced vere now heated potash , when the bases distilled as a colourless oil .
This oil has all the physical and chemical cbaracters of pure aniline .
In order to demonstrate the transformation of leucoline into aniline the crude product of the oxidation may be used of the isolated acid .
A cubic centimetre of leucoline dissolved as sulphate , treated a solution of 3 grams of permanganate of potash , filtered , to dryness , and the residue nuxedwith some -lime , yields 011 distillation sufficient aniline to give all its characteristic reac.tlons .
If potash-lime be used instead of soda-lime , the produot of the is fouud to be almost free from pyrrol .
In order to ascertain if any base other than aniline present , 3 grams of the acid was heated with potash-lime and the ] late collected in dilute hydrochloric acid .
This was ] tated by chloride of platinum , when gram of the first fraction gram of tinum , equal to per cent. , aniline reqmrlng per cent. The second fraction , gram , gave gram of platinum , equal to per ce , only substance associated with aniline seems to be anmlonia , appears the , undertaken to scertain hither any nitrile bases occurred in distillate .
The distillate from other 3 gramb of acid was collected in nitric acid , and fragments of nitrite of potash added , until all the aniJine was decomposed .
The solulion fter oiled reated vilh caustic soda distilled .
The On the Transformation of Leucohne into Amline .
[ Mar. 15 , was slightly alkaline , and gave a platinum salt , of which gram yielded of platinum , equal to per cent. of platinum , the double chloride of platinum and ammonium requiring per cent. The mother-liquor yielded nothing apparently but the ammonium salt .
The acid on heating with potash-lime inly undergoes the following reaction:\mdash ; When the crude mixture of potash salts resulting from the oxidation is taken , instead of the pure acid , and distilled with soda-lime , there appears to be associated with the aniline and pyrrols a small quantity of a nitrile base having lower than leucoline .
If the pure potash salt is heated it distils along with the vapour nfcr , and a mixture of carbonnte of potash and carbon is left .
Thus If the potash salt is fused exccss of potnsh , ammoma olved and salicylic acid is found in tion .
Probablv is the first product , and this is changed into ammoma and salicylic acid , ) ( 1 ) ( 2 ) A .
scries of ions tnke hen digo is carefully treated ith ] ) tion of the origin of the found with the hen the acid is heated ith A of the acid he the boiling-point of the Iattcr , bves it distillale of cerine , niline , and a in small of illdol .
free carbolt is parated in this tion .
That indol or an isomeric body to occur imongst the of decolnposition from the follol ing likely decomposition : \mdash ; ) This reaction is from the relntions of indol and aniline , indol being readily obt.ained from the reduction of time , and isatin aniline , carbollate of potash , and hydrogen on fusion potash .
The relations of , leucoJine , and indol will be fully investigated in the second part of this paper , after I have had an opportunity of examining the cinchona the mean time it may be remarked that pyrrol and ridine h a ] relation to indol and , thus\mdash ; Il 1877 .
] On the Density of Sohd Mercury .
71 In pnper before referred to it was suggested that , " " considering the stability and mode of formation of these bases , it is not at all improbable that they may be produced by the simultaneous action of acetylelle and ives on drocyanic acid ; thus as three molecules of acetylene condense and form benzol , so may molecules of acetvleue and one of acid condense and produce pyridine.\ldquo ; A svnthetical experiment of the kind ested has been executed by Mr. , who finds that by ting a mixture of acetylene and ncid through a red-hot tube bases were unquestionablv produced .
Pyrrol , hich may be so readily identified by of its chnracteristic reaction with fir oistened with hydrochloric acid , may be formed by ammonia for the acid in the above experiment .
The acetylene employed , , contained a small quantity of bromide of villyl , and it is possible the reaction may pl between that and ammonia .
Only a quantity of is formed in this leaction , the principal substance forlued 1 ) eing cuide of ammoni ; and the success of the expet.iment seems to depend on the maintenance of a carefully regulated temperature and a extent of porous surfnce .
These and similar reactions nre under tion .
The theorctiffi of this tion have not been touched upon in the present paper , an tensive research will be necessary beforc stl'uctural relations can be predicted with any certainty .
I am greatly indebted to Mr. W. F. Sell , B.A. , and Mr. A. Scott , B.Sc. , assistants in the Chemiwl Department , for aid in the course of the investigation .
Labol.atory , Cambridge niversity .
1II .
' On the Density of Solid Mercur By Prof. J. W. MALLET , University of Virginia .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 1877 .
I have lately taken advantage of a heavy fall of very cold and finely pulverulent , well dapted to the prepal.ation of freezing-mixtures , to redetermine , with accuraoy I believe , the density of mercury in the solid state and at a definite temperature .
Such tion was not superfluous , as appeared from a collation the statements to be found in various standard works .
In the tables of specific gravities compiled by Prof. F.W. Clarke , and published by the Institution , there four authorities quoted , with the numbers given by these , :\mdash ; On Picoline and its tives , \ldquo ; Phil. ' the Constants of aturc.\mdash ; Part 1 \ldquo ; Smi ] { on , 1873 .
p. 24 .

