208 Mr. J. A. Kendall .
[ Jan. l !
January 17 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; \#166 ; I. " On a New Method of Generating Electricity .
" By J. Ai Kendall , F.I.C. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received September 30 , and Decern- !
ber 28 , 1883 .
In 1863 Deville and Troost announced their discovery that certain metals were permeable by hydrogen at a red heat .
This discovery , as is well known , was verified by Graham , who made extended researches on the subject .
About three years ago it occurred to the author that a red-hot platinum plate , through which hydrogen was passing , might be made to serve as an element of a galvanic combination , and early in 1881 some experiments were tried with this object .
These were continued from time to time up to the present , and in this paper it is proposed to give some account of the experiments and their results .
The subject appears to the author to require much more extended researches in several directions than he has been able to make , but it is hoped that by giving an account of the researches hitherto made , the points which require further investigation will suggest themselves to physicists and chemists .
In the earlier experiments the author constructed small tubes of platinum foil .
These were sealed up at one end by the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , and to the open ends glass tubes were fused .
Platinum conducting wires were fastened to the tubes .
By means of the glass tubes gases could be conveyed to the interior of the platinum tubes .
A platinum crucible was used as the other element of the cell , it had a platinum conducting wire attached , and was supported over a Bunsen burner .
A small platinum foil tube was then held in the centre of the crucible , and the cell was completed by putting the transmitting medium into the crucible .
After unsuccessful trials with alkaline nitrates , \amp ; c. , glacial phosphoric acid was selected .
Some of 884 .
] On a New Method of Generating Electricity .
his substance was put into the crucible and fused so as to nearly mmerse the platinum foil tube .
On connecting the two wires with a galvanometer no deflection was observed when the crucible and contents were heated to redness in the Oxidising flame of the Bunsen burner .
When , however , hydrogen gas Was supplied to the inner platinum tube , an immediate production of electricity was perceived .
The tube of platinum foil containing hydrogen was , seen to correspond to the zinc element in an ordinary galvanic cell .
This experiment being verified other substances were tried instead of phosphoric acid .
Sulphuric acid nearly at its boiling point gave a slight current .
Chloride of sodium in the fused state gave a very good result .
'Then the chlorides of potassium , calcium , and the alkaline earth metals were tried with similar results .
As might be expected the production of electricity increased with the temperature .
It was , however , soon found that the production of the current was 1 stopped if the flame of the Bunsen burner did not ensure perfect combustion on the exterior of the platinum crucible .
Experiments showed that if a reducing flame was applied to the crucible while the small tube contained air , then a current of electricity in the reverse direction was obtained .
Tubes of palladium foil substituted for the platinum tubes gave similar results .
After a number of trials with tubes of platinum foil , an apparatus was constructed of two platinum tubes closed at one end .
The inner tube was 4 inches long and -S\#166 ; inch internal diameter , while the outer tube was 3-f inches long , and | inch inside diameter .
The thickness of metal was inch in both tubes .
The two tubes when used for these experiments were arranged upright in a small Fletcher 's gas furnace , the inner tube being supported at any desired height in the centre of the larger tube and connected with a supply of hydrogen .
Numerous experiments were made with this apparatus .
The temperature could be easily regulated from a dull red heat to a white heat , and various saline substances could be tried as media .
The fused sulphates , carbonates , and nitrates were found to be unsuitable for the production of the .
current .
The results obtained with fused chlorides , \amp ; c. , showed that the hydrogen not only passed through the metal of the inner tube , but also through the fused saline medium and then through the outer platinum tube .
In recent experiments with this apparatus it appears that when a good transmitting substance is used between the tubes , and when about 3 3 square inches of the inner tube are in contact with the 210 Mr. J. A. Kendall .
[ Jan. 11 i medium , the amount of hydrogen gas .which passes through the meta at a nearly white heat is about 0'7 cub. centim. per minute .
Thi volume of course refers to hydrogen at ordinary temperatures .
The use of this apparatus led to the discovery of a large number o substances which would serve as media by allowing the transmissioi of hydrogen .
The list of saline bodies was extended to the bromides , iodides , ant fluorides of the alkaline and earth metals , but the most important discovery in this direction was that vitreous bodies such as glass , anc even vitrified bodies as porcelain and earthenware , acted as media when at a red heat .
Attention was then directed to the use of vitreous media for several reasons .
In experiments with fused saline bodies the use of common metak was precluded owing to their being corroded by fused salts , and !
although iron is known to be permeable to hydrogen at a red heat , !
yet its oxidisable qualities prevented any satisfactory results being !
obtained when it was substituted for platinum .
However , when vitreous matters were used instead of fused salts , it became possible to use other metals for these experiments .
A number of trials were made by taking tubes of fusible soda glass .
A small tube of the metal to be tested was then placed inside the glass , and while passing a slight current of coal-gas to prevent oxidation of the metal , the glass was carefully fused on to the metal .
The external surface of the glass while soft was then coated with thin platinum foil or with other metals .
On connecting the inner and outer coatings with a galvanometer , passing hydrogen through the tube , and then heating it to redness , the usual current of electricity was produced .
The quantity of electricity generated both with these cells and with the platinum tubes was in proportion to the surface heated .
The most powerful effects were obtained when the metallic coating was in the pulverulent form .
Spongy platinum , for example , when made to adhere closely to the glass gave a strong current with hydrogen .
When using thin metallic plates in the interior of the tubes it was found necessary to employ very thin platinum foil on the exterior , as the hydrogen otherwise accumulated to some extent on the inner plate , thus spoiling the cell .
A good result might often be got by painting the external surface of the glass with an alcoholic solution of platinic chloride , and then igniting .
By this means a very thin film of metallic platinum was left on the glass , and by means of a spiral of platinum wire also put round the glass , sufficient conduction was obtained .
As glass exerts only a slight action on metallic iron at a red heat .
2ii 384 .
] On a New Method of Generating Electricity .
in sheet iron ( j-jrs- inch ) was used in numerous experiments , but iis does not make a perfect arrangement when glass containing ikali is used , as the alkali metal appears to be liberated at a very ; rong heat .
j x number of metals were tried either in the form of sheet or as a iowdery deposit .
This latter form might frequently be obtained by coating the interior of the glass tube with the oxide of the metal to be tried , and hen reducing the metal by hydrogen or coal-gas upon the surface of he glass .
The following metals were tried and found to transmit hydrogen ind cause the production of electricity :\#151 ; Platinum .
Molybdenum .
Palladium .
Copper .
Gold .
Silver .
Iron .
Nickel .
; The relative transmitting powers were not , however , ascertained .
There can be little doubt that the property of transmitting hydrogen at a red heat belongs to most , if not all , metallic bodies .
In the course of the experiments it was observed that the glass used was practically a non-conductor of electricity from one or two galvanic cells when it was heated to redness in an oxidising flame .
When , however , hydrogen was supplied to the glass either inside or outside of the tube it at once became a good conductor of the current .
It was found necessary to avoid using glass containing metallic oxides reducible by hydrogen , as these oxides by reacting upon the hydrogen on the surface of the transmitting plate cause frothing of the glass , thus destroying that absolute contact between the metal and the glass which is required for the production of the electric current .
Experiments were made with tubes of Berlin porcelain , and satisfactory results were obtained .
It was found convenient to cover the surface of the tube both inside and out with melted glass and then to carefully lay platinum foil upon the glass , so as to get as perfect an adherence as possible .
It appears to be best to have a much thicker metallic plate on the inner side of the cell than on the outside .
The author has not determined the most advantageous conditions precisely as yet .
Cells were also constructed of clay , containing a percentage of glass , porcelain of various kinds , \amp ; c. The amount of hydrogen transmitted in a given time through the arrangements described varies greatly according to the nature of the medium and the nature of the metallic layer .
Mr. J. A. Kendall .
[ Jan.1 With pulverulent metals and a medium of soft glass the rate 1 e transmission of hydrogen may he as high as 06 cub. centim. I square inch per minute at a full red heat .
With Berlin porcelai tubes , however , the transmission does not usually exceed O'2 cut centim. per square inch per minute , even at a white heat , while at red heat the rate is much lower .
With platinum tubes of inc thick the transmission may be from Ol cub. centim. to 02 cul centim. per square inch according to the temperature .
The electromotive force of the new cells varies according to th media used , and this subject will of course require further investiga tion .
It was found , however , that the platinum tube cell gave , with : borate of lime at a nearly white heat , an electromotive force=0'36 a Daniell , whilst a cell constructed of Berlin porcelain tube incl thick gave an electromotive force=0'7 of a Daniell when worked at si nearly white heat .
Although many gaseous mixtures containing free hydrogen will serve to produce the electrical reactions , yet experiments with carbon ) monoxide have given no similar result in conjunction either with irons or platinum plates .
In conclusion , the author has to thank Mr. S. A. Sadler , of Middlesbrough , for having put at his disposal various facilities for prosecuting his later experiments .
Received December 28 , 1883 .
Before describing further researches which the author has made on the subject of electrical currents produced by hydrogen , it may be well to mention that the galvanometer generally used in the experiments yet to be described , as well as in the former experiments with metal tubes , \amp ; c. , is one adapted for rather strong currents and it has very slight resistance .
It has been graduated by means of a voltameter .
As these experiments must be regarded more as qualitative than quantitative , it will perhaps be sufficient to give four points of deflection with the corresponding liberation of hydrogen in a voltameter .
Deflection of Liberation of hydrogen galvanometer .
per minute .
10 ' 0-07C.C .
20 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-21 " 30 ... ... ... ... ... 0-60 40 ... ... ... ... ... 1*35 " The above figures also show , in a roughly approximate way , the amount of hydrogen which must be supplied to a cell of the new construction in order to give the deflection indicated .
In continuing his researches the author has found that strongly 384 .
] On a New Method of Generating Electricity .
sated hydrogen may give rise to electrical currents under a variety of reumstances .
Small cells were made by nearly covering short wires or rods of letal with melted glass .
The glass was then covered with platinum , il and the ] two metals were connected by wires with the galvanometer .
On heating a cell of this construction in an oxidising flame an Metrical current was almost invariably produced , due to the with-rawal of hydrogen from the inner wire or rod .
When the current iminished in force a reducing flame , containing free hydrogen , was pplied to the cell .
This immediately caused an energetic reverse nrrent , accompanied by the re-absorption of hydrogen by the inner aetal .
Then with an oxidising flame the original effect could be produced .
These results were obtained with wires of platinum , nickel , -on , and copper .
In working with cells of this description made with , -on rod , it was found that a current of electricity of long duration old be produced by the oxidising flame .
This result appears to be ue to the continuous absorption of hydrogen liberated from aqueous fapour by that portion of the iron which was not covered by glass . .
When the entire surface of the iron was covered by glass ( with the xception of the conducting wire , which was away from the heat ) then he deflection of the galvanometer gradually came to zero when the ell was heated in an oxidising flame .
Recently experiments have been made with a differently arranged .pparatus , as follows :\#151 ; A platinum tube , 5^ inches long and 1 inch diameter , was set ipright in a Fletcher 's gas furnace and nearly filled with a fusible ?
lass composed of the diborates of lime and magnesia .
This apparatus oeing heated to bright redness , a plate of platinum , 2 inches long and 0*6 inch wide , suspended by a platinum wire , was immersed in the laid glass .
The platinum tube and the plate being connected with the galvanometer , the phenomena of alternate electric currents could be produced with great facility by altering the nature of the flame in the furnace .
When the platinum tube was surrounded with a visible pale flame there was an electrical current from the tube to the plate until the plate was apparently saturated with hydrogen .
When more air was supplied to the furnace , so as to cause more perfect combustion , the needle of the galvanometer was violently reversed .
The deflection produced on the galvanometer by either the " normal " or reverse " current was at first 18 ' or 20 ' , and it fell to nearly zero within ten or fifteen minutes .
These effects could of course be repeated as often as required .
It appears quite plain that the hydrogen in flames has a powerful molecular or atomic action .
If glass be fused in a large platinum crucible heated by flame as in a Fletcher 's furnace , bubbles of hydrogen may be observed forming 214 On a New Method of Generating Electricity .
[ Jan. 1 ' and rising from the sides of the crucible , especially at the hottei parts .
If a platinum tube like that used for the experiments -with tl suspended plate be somewhat cooled while nearly full of melted glas so that the glass becomes very viscous , then by applying a flame coi taining free hydrogen to any spot on the lower part of the tube th latter may easily be burst by the bubble of hydrogen which is forme on the inside of the tube .
Experiments have also been tried in which the hydrogen comin-through a cell was removed by means of a Sprengel pump .
0n\gt ; experiment may be described:\#151 ; A platinum tube 2f inches long am S inch diameter , closed at one end , was soldered to a strong iron tub and fixed vertically .
The platinum tube was immersed for 24 inche in fused glass contained in a platinum cell .
This latter was 2f inches deep and 1 inch diameter .
The two platinum tubes were connected by platinum wires with th.j galvanometer , and the iron tube was connected with a Sprenge pump .
The cell being heated to bright redness in an oxidising flame , a good vacuum was produced by the Sprengel pump .
Then , while no bubbles of gas came down the fall tube of the pump , the galvano* meter showed no deflection .
The cell was then heated by a reducing flame .
The galvanometer soon gave a steady deflection of 15 ' , and bubbles of hydrogen came down the fall tube of the pump .
The experiment was continued for half an hour , and during fifteen minutes the hydrogen coming down the fall tube was collected .
It measured T33 cub. centime .
From occasional experiments with several vitreous mixtures the conclusion formerly arrived at by the author regarding their electric conductivity is confirmed , viz. , that these fused vitreous matters do not conduct electricity of low tension unless hydrogen be present .
When working with large cells it is , of course , difficult to avoid the presence of hydrogen if the cell be heated by flame .
It appeared desirable to try whether any hydrogen could be made to pass through the walls of a porcelain tube either under the influence of oxygen or by means of a vacuum .
A glazed Berlin porcelain tube 20 inches long and inch diameter was sealed up at one end and connected with a Sprengel pump .
The closed end of the tube exposing a surface of 4 square inches was heated to whiteness in the gas furnace , but no hydrogen could be drawn by the Sprengel pump when the porcelain tube was heated in a reducing flame .
After this the porcelain tube was filled with hydrogen , and the same part as before was heated in an oxidising flame , but no loss of hydrogen from the tube could be perceived during half an hour .
884 .
] On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric , SfC .
215 Somewhat similar experiments have also been made with glass tubes nth negative results .
The author has also made a few experiments to ascertain the afluence of a voltaic current in increasing or diminishing the flow of hydrogen through the medium , but so much depends upon the structure of the metallic surfaces in contact with the medium and their elative sizes , as well as upon the electromotive force , \amp ; c. , of the \gt ; attery used , that this subject would probably require somewhat .laborate researches .
The author , however , hopes to make further investigations into the nature of the movements of hydrogen produced in vitreous matters , nd in metals .
II .
" On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric Acid and other Hydrated Salts .
" By J. H. Gladstone , PhD .
, F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received December 20 , 1883 .
On the 1st of March last a communication was presented to the Royal Society by Professor Frankland , in which , among other things , the reactions we had described as taking place in the charging and discharging of secondary batteries were confirmed .
The author expressed these reactions , however , by formulae founded on the electrolysis , not of H2S04 , but of hexabasic sulphuric acid , H6S06 , in accordance with the views of Bourgoin .
The point of difference is a small one , but it led us to look into the papers of Bourgoin , and to examine the evidence upon which his views were based .
The French chemist ( " Ann. de Chimie , " 1868 ) treats of the electrolysis of sulphuric acid merely as an illustration of his method for determining the composition of hydrated Salts in solution generally.* This method consists in electrolysing a given solution in a divided cell , analysing the liquid in each compartment at the close of the experiment , and , in the case of dilute sulphuric acid , collecting the- hydrogen set free .
In the case of a solution of sulphuric acid , of course , the positive compartment may be expected to increase in strength as a consequence of the electrolytic action , and the negative compartment to decrease in strength in the same degree .
Bourgoin calls the increase of the acid in the positive compartment a , and concludes that 2\#187 ; represents the amount of sulphuric acid electrolysed .
This conclusion rests on the well-known theoretical views of Grotthuss , and , did his theory express all that goes on in the electrolytic process , the method would readily discriminate between the actions represented by the following formulae : VOL. XXXVI .
Q

