219 The Supersaturation and Nuclear Condensation of Certain Organic Vapours .
By T. H. Laby , B.A. , Emmanuel College , Cambridge , Exhibition of 1851 Science Research Scholar of the University of Sydney , Joule Student of the Royal Society .
( Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received April 10 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) The condensation of drops , which takes place when dust-free air saturated with an organic vapour is cooled by an adiabatic expansion , is the subject of this investigation .
The experiments were made with the air and vapour ( 1 ) in their natural state , ( 2 ) ionised by Rontgen rays .
The apparatus used was in principle the same as that of Mr. C. T. R. Wilson in his experiments with water vapour .
The essential part of it is an expansion chamber in communication with a glass cylinder , in which a gas-tight piston slides freely .
When a trigger is pulled the piston descends , and a very rapid ( adiabatic ) expansion of the air and vapour is obtained .
The expansion was determined from the initial and final readings of a pressure gauge .
The illumination of the expansion chamber was such as enabled any drops formed by the expansion to be readily seen .
The liquids used in the experiments were carefully purified .
When the air and vapour are expanded adiabatically their temperature falls , and the pressure of the vapour at this lower temperature is greater than that which it has over a plane surface of the liquid at the same temperature .
This supersaturation , however , may not cause the condensation of drops in dust-free air .
Expansions of increasing magnitude were made until condensation took place , and then the least expansion required to produce condensation for the conditions of the experiment was determined .
In another series of experiments the expansion chamber was so made that in one part of it the positive ions produced by Rontgen rays were in excess , and in the other adjacent part the negative were in excess ; the expansion was identical in both and the result of it could be observed in the two parts simultaneously .
In this way the relative efficiencies of the ions as condensation nuclei could be examined .
The results of the investigation may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The least expansion , which causes condensation in air initially saturated with an organic vapour and ionised by Rontgen rays , has been 220 Super saturation , etc. , of certain Organic Vapours .
-determined for five esters , six acids ( formic to iso-valeric ) , and iso-amyl alcohol .
( 2 ) In the case of acetic acid the expansion required was greater for feeble Eontgen rays than for more intense ones .
( 3 ) The supersaturation , S , existing at the end of each of the expansions mentioned in ( 1 ) has been calculated , and also for four alcohols and chloroform from Przibram 's experiments .
( 4 ) The acids are found to have the largest values of S and the alcohols the least .
The isomers examined have the same value for S with one exception .
In the case of the alcohols , ethyl to iso-amyl , a fairly regular decrease in S accompanies the addition of a CH2 group .
( 5 ) The existing theory of condensation on ionic nuclei has been given , values of S have been calculated from it , and compared with S deduced from the observed expansions .
The agreement in the case of acetic , propionic , ^-butyric , and iso-butyric acids , and methyl alcohol is very close .
( 6 ) The expansion and supersaturation necessary for condensation on the natural nuclei have been determined for the same ( dust-free ) vapours .
In the case of formic , acetic , and butyric acids a distinctly greater expansion is required to catch the natural nuclei than that required for the ionic nuclei produced by Rontgen rays .
( 7 ) As the expansion was increased the number of drops usually increased continuously with it so that the fog point was ill defined , except in the case of tertiary amyl alcohol .
( 8 ) Ethyl acetate , methyl butyrate , propyl acetate , acetic acid , and isoamyl alcohol were found to condense for a smaller expansion on the positive nucleus than on the negative .
Water is the only known substance for which the negative ionic nucleus is more efficient than the positive .
( 9 ) On bubbling air through methyl , ethyl , and iso-amyl alcohols , ethyl acetate , propyl acetate , methyl butyrate , chloroform , and ethyl iodide they became negatively electrified .
This was the sign of the electrification to be expected from Professor Thomson 's double layer theory of the relative -efficiency of ionic nuclei .
Acetic acid was not in agreement with the theory for it became positively charged on bubbling .

