307 An Apparatus for Measurements of the Defining Power of Objectives .
By J. de Graaff Hunter , M.A. , late Assistant at the National Physical Laboratory .
( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read February 18 , 1909 .
Received in revised form April 5 , 1909 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) The apparatus here described was devised at the National Physical Laboratory for the purpose of obtaining a numerical estimate of the goodness of definition in the image given by an optical system .
It has been employed also for determining the distribution of intensity , as affected by diffraction , in the images obtained through a small circular aperture , giving results in complete agreement with the usual theory .
As an object , the image of which is to be examined , is employed an ** edge , " forming the boundary line between a half bright , half dark , field .
The distribution of intensity along a line at right angles to the edge may be represented by the broken line ABEF in fig. 1 , ordinates representing m b Fig. 1 .
intensity , and abscissae , measured from E , distances from the edge .
In the image , the intensity distribution will be given by some such curve as ADF , the light gradually falling off from full intensity at a point outside to zero at some point inside the geometrical image of the edge .
The object aimed at is to obtain a series of points on , and hence to draw , this intensity curve .
The whole width we are concerned with in this blurred image of the edge is extremely small , and for the measurements magnification is necessary .
The optical arrangement which comes into consideration in what follows is shown diagrammatically in fig. 2 .
The " edge " is placed at the focus of a .collimator , so that it may be regarded as virtually at an infinite distance from VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; A. Y 308 Mr. J. de Graaff Hunter .
An Apparatus for [ Apr. 5 , the optical system , say a photographic lens , to be examined ; the image formed by such lens is viewed by a microscope .
In the focal plane of the Fig. 2 .
eyepiece of the microscope ( Ramsden ) is placed a fine slit , parallel to the " edge , " through which alone the light passes .
The slit is traversed across the field by a micrometer screw .
The edge which serves as object is cut on the semicircumference of a metal disc ( fig. 3a ) .
Only a very small portion of the edge is actually seen in the o Fig. 3a .
Fig. 3b .
image , and this is straight to the order of accuracy necessary .
Over the other half of the circumference are sectors , cut to such a depth that the inner radius is less than the radius of the edge .
The edge , at the part viewed , is uniformly illuminated from behind .
Consider what is seen if this disc is rotated .
Over half the rotation there appears in the microscope field the blurred image of the edge ; over the other half there is uniform illumination in the field , reduced only by 50 per cent , owing to the interposition of the sectors .
In general , at an appropriate speed of rotation , there will be a flicker as we pass from one half of the circumference to the other .
If , now , a second disc , shown in fig. 3b , be placed behind the first , as in fig. 3c , the means of making a measurement is obtained .
If the two discs be rotated together , over the one half of the rotation is seen the blurred image of the edge , the illumination being everywhere reduced by one-half owing to the sectors ; over the other half of the rotation there is uniform illumination , which , however , can be changed , in a measurable proportion , by adjustment of the second disc relative to the first .
If the slit in the eyepiece be set in any definite position , MQ , parallel to the geometrical image of the edge ( fig. 1 ) , light of a definite intensity , PQ , will pass through it while the image of the edge travels across the microscope field , i.e. over one half of a rotationFig .
3c .
1909 .
] Measurements of the Defining Power of Objectives .
309 of the discs ; over the other half equal light intensity can be obtained by varying the position of the second disc .
Equality is determined by the disappearance of flicker .
Actually , it is found more convenient to fix the relative position of the two discs , and to move the slit in the direction perpendicular to the edge .
The variation in the light intensity across the blurred image of the edge is very rapid except near the maximum or minimum intensity ( see fig. 1 ) , and the position of the slit in which the flicker disappears can be determined to a high order of accuracy .
The position of the point Q corresponding to a sector setting giving a certain light intensity PQ can be found to within over the greater part of the intensity curve .
It was found desirable to arrange that settings of the sectors , in a convenient series of positions , could be made automatically .
The positions chosen were those giving intensities 0 , 1/ 6 , 2/ 6 , 3/ 6 , 4/ 6 , 5/ 6 , and 6/ 6 of full intensity .
The mechanism which seemed most suitable for making these settings was a crown wheel escapement .
By this means the sectors could be moved relatively to one another by a known amount , and the observer could rely on the sectors coming accurately to the proper position without having to take his eye away from the microscope .
To allow for positions intermediate to those stated , it is only necessary to give the pallets of the escapement an adjustment over a small angle In the actual case , by making 0 = 3 ' , any relative position whatever of the sectors can be obtained , and the 19 possible settings at intervals of 1 ' ( corresponding to 19 points on the intensity curve ) can all be made with only one intermediate change of 6 .
Fig. 4a .
The second disc , bearing the crown wheel which forms the " scape wheel ot the escapement , is shown diagrammatically ( fig. 4a section , 4b plan ) .
A is the shaft , B an arm carrying the pallets of the escapement , .
the portions310 Mr. J. de Graaff Hunter .
An Apparatus for [ Apr. 5 , which engage with the teeth of the crown wheel C. The arm B is free to rock about the axis EF on pins E , F screwed into the shaft A. To give an adjustment for the 6 of the last paragraph , it is arranged that the pallets can swing on a sleeve on the arm B through an angle of about 5 ' .
The arm B is connected by a short link G , with pin joints at each end , to the shouldered sleeve HHi , which is free to slide a short distance along the main shaft AA ' .
In the portion marked Hi the sleeve has a slot cut parallel to the length of the shaft AA ' .
This slot works over a pin fixed into the shaft , and so allows HH ' a small motion along the shaft .
This motion causes the arm B of the escapement to rock the requisite amount .
It is given by means of pressure applied along two rollers , which run against the shoulder H , bearing at opposite ends of a diameter through AA ' .
The return motion is arranged for by means of suitably disposed springs .
Bell crank levers are used to enable the observer at any distance ( in this case upwards of 2 metres ) to apply the pressure to the rollers .
A brake string is placed in a Y-groove cut at the back of the crown wheel C. The shaft is rotated by means of the pulley P , and this turns the first disc , and , through the escapement , the second disc also , against the brake string .
When the escapement arm B is rocked over , the brake string holds the second disc back until the escapement again carries it on with the shaft .
The tension of the brake string can be adjusted by means of a screw at one end and a spring at the other to the proper amount .
In examining the definition at points off the axis of the system , it is usually enough to find the definition or intensity curves for two azimuths , and the azimuths naturally chosen are those of the radial and transverse lines .
On this account the whole apparatus is mounted on a stand free to turn about the proper axis ( parallel to the shaft AA ' ) , so that a simple rotation changes the portion of the first disc seen in the observing microscope from the radial line ( w^hen the top of the disc , tangent horizontal , is seen ) to the transverse line ( when the side of the disc , tangent vertical , is seen ) .
A prop of suitable length is used to support one end of the stand , and by pushing this nearer to the axis of the stand the discs are raised to the proper position .
It will be seen that this arrangement gives three-point support ( the points being the prop and the two ends of the axis ) to the stand , and also the proper horizontal and vertical motions ; which exceed 5 cm .
, by one simple movement .
Intermediate positions , necessary for definition curves of other azimuths , can also be given by combining a horizontal sliding of the whole arrangement with a rotation about the stand axis .
The apparatus has been used in conjunction with the Beck photographic lens-testing bench at the National Physical Laboratory .
The lens for test is 1909.J Measurements oj the Uejining rower oj Objectives .
311 held in the Beck bench so as to be free to turn about a vertical axis through its back nodal point , thus permitting the definition for oblique pencils to be readily examined .
The eyepiece of the microscope by which the image is examined is a Bamsden eyepiece of magnification ten .
In its front focal plane is a diaphragm in which is cut a diametral slit ( as already explained ) set tangentially to the image formed in the plane of the semicircular edge of the first disc .
Part of the diaphragm can be swung out of the way to enable a general view of the object to be obtained .
This is necessary for setting up the object in the right position at the beginning ; for the field of view through the slit\#151 ; especially when a high-power microscope objective is used\#151 ; is far too small to allow any part of the object to be recognised .
With the highest power used ( 1/ 6 inch ) the image of the edge of the disc , even with a lens giving excellent definition , extended nearly across the entire microscope field .
The width of the slit in the eyepiece can be varied from 0 to 1 mm. With a very steep definition curve it is desirable to work with as narrow a slit and as high a power as possible .
The whole eyepiece , with diaphragm and slit , can be turned so as to set the slit tangential to the image of the edge of the first disc .
To read the position of any setting of the eyepiece , a scale consisting of fine slits cut in a diaphragm is fixed to the main tube of the microscope and coplanar with the eyepiece diaphragm , in the focal plane of the eyepiece ; and the position of the eyepiece slit is read against this scale , which is lit up by the light from the object .
A little cover is arranged for these graduations , as the flickering occurring in them diverts attention from the observing slit , and so spoils the settings .
This arrangement allows readings to be taken without subjecting the eye to any outside light .
Greater accuracy of reading is obtained by using a micrometer screw , with a higher power objective .
To compensate partially for change of intensity of illumination at various parts of the curves so as to limit the range of intensities at which the photometric observations are made , a neutral-tinted darkened glass absorbing about 70 per cent , of the light incident on it is fitted in front of the eyepiece .
This can be removed when the intensity is small .
Neutral-tinted glasses are also placed between the disc and the source of light to make the intensity of illumination in the microscope convenient to the eye .
These glasses are changed according to the power of the microscope objective and the aperture to which the lens is stopped down .
The automatic change of the position of the second disc gives rise to a peculiar order of change of intensity .
As this order would be difficult to 312 Mr. J. de Graaff Hunter .
An Apparatus for [ Apr. 5 , remember , an indicator is arranged to show the position at any moment .
This is simply a ratchet wheel with 24 teeth , having the numbers indicating the position marked on it .
The escapement is worked merely by pulling a string once and releasing ; and a convenient way of doing this , so as to be certain that the pull has been drawn through far enough , is to attach the string to a crank , and give a complete turn of the crank to each movement of the escapement .
The same crank actuates the indicator .
With the arrangement described it is possible to make the settings at the rate of two per minute or so .
A whole series of readings for central and oblique definition at any aperture can be made in 10 minutes .
Since the method employed is a flicker method it is clear that , unless monochromatic light is used , the various colours are weighted in proportion to the sensation they produce in the eye of the observer .
This , of course , is not the best weighting for photographic consideration .
It is probable , however , in a lens which is fairly achromatic , that only a small difference would be found for the various colours .
The visual readings would apply practically without change if orthochromatic plates were to be used on the photographic objective .
It is , of course , necessary that the circumference of the disc which forms the " edge " examined should be very accurately circular , and accurately centred on the shaft .
The error in the actual apparatus is exceedingly small ; it can be examined and its effect allowed for , if necessary , by focussing the microscope directly on the edge without any intermediate optical system .
The departure from perfect definition due to the collimator and microscope is also involved in the measurements taken for the optical system under examination ; it is , however , clear from the results obtained that for practical tests of definition this effect is negligibly small .
The apparatus has been made up at the National Physical Laboratory by Mr. Murfitt , the instrument maker at the Laboratory .
Mr. Murfitt gave very material assistance in the design of the various mechanisms , and the author is glad of this opportunity of recording his indebtedness for the help he has received .
The theory of the distribution of intensity in the image formed by a lens with circular aperture , free from aberration , is well known .
The best account of it will be found in Lord Kayleigh 's article on " The Wave Theory of Light " in the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica.'* The intensity curve in the image plane for a source consisting of an opaque straight edge with uniform illumination beyond the edge , as employed with this apparatus , has been * ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 3 .
( .909 .
] Measurements of the Defining Power of Objectives .
313 calculated by Struve , * and some of Struve 's results are given in Lord Kayleigh 's article above cited .
The curves obtained with the apparatus for a certain photographic lens ( denoted by No. 2 ) at various aperture ratios are given in fig. 5 .
These are EDGE .L .
INTENSITY .
0-1 Trim 005 Fig. 5.\#151 ; Intensity Curves for Lens No. 2 .
Central pencil ; various apertures .
for central definition , the axis of the lens intersecting the " edge .
" The curve for / 33 is practically identical with Struve 's theoretical curve for this aperture .
It may be remarked that with most good photographic lenses it has been found that the best central definition is obtained at apertures between/ /8 and/ /11 .
The apparatus may also readily be employed for the experimental determination of the intensity pattern in other eases of diffraction , and it is hoped that the results of such measurements made with it at the National Physical Laboratory may be published later .
It may also be suggested that some such contrivance , introducing a similar form of flicker photometry , might readily be applied to the measurement of spectrum line intensities or of the intensity of " visibility curves " which arise in the use of the Michelson interferometer .
In this way greater accuracy might probably be obtained than by the method of estimation described in Michelson 's ' Light Waves and their uses .
' It is hardly necessary to say that this would lead to a more rigorous analysis of the molecular constitution of any substance examined by means of the interferometer .
For such work only one source of illumination would be used ( as in the apparatus described above ) , and the light would be partially allowed to pass through the interferometer and so * * Wiedemann 's Annalen , ' vol. 17 , 1882 , p. 1008 .
Prof. J. B. Henderson .
[ Feb. 9 , to the photometer , while part would reach the photometer directly .
The author hopes to have the opportunity of further considering this application .
In conclusion , he has great pleasure in acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. Glazebrook , the Director of the Laboratory , for his kindness in reading and revising the paper , and also to Mr. F. J. Selby for similar help .
Many of the measurements were taken by Mr. T. Smith , the author 's successor at the laboratory , and to him also the author desires to express his thanks .
The Flight of a Rifled Projectile in Air .
By Prof. J. B. Henderson , D.Sc .
, Royal Naval College , Greenwich .
( Communicated by W. Burnside , F.R.S. Received February 9 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1909 .
) The stability of a moving projectile has been treated by Sir George Greenhill as a practical application of a problem in hydrodynamics which he had previously solved , namely , the stability of a rotating spheroid moving slowly through a liquid.* This hydrodynamical illustration , however , though in itself interesting , gives little assistance in the numerical treatment of the problem which is here discussed\#151 ; the stability of a projectile after it is launched on its trajectory .
The shot is then moving faster than a wave of compression in air ; for this reason , and on account of the eddying motion generally , the shot cannot be linked to the air in that closed kinematic chain which is assumed in all problems in hydrodynamics , and in which the velocity of every particle of fluid depends only on the velocity of the solid , the two varying together in a perfectly definite manner .
Only the air at a very short distance from the projectile can directly affect the motion of the latter , and in the following pages the problem is treated simply as that of a moving rotating body meeting with certain resistances .
This method of treating the problem seems natural and self-evident .
It has been used by the writer in lecturing to naval gunnery lieutenants during the last four years , and by Mr. A. Mallock , F.R.S. , in a paper on " Ranges and Behaviour of Rifled Projectiles in Air , " f but , so far as the writer is aware , it has never before been carried to its ultimate conclusion\#151 ; the synthesis of a trajectory in all its details , the initial conditions and the laws * See The Engineer/ November\#151 ; December , 1907 .
t * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ June 24 , 1907 .

