]\gt ; Impurity found in from Urea .
On the Character of the Impurity found in Nitrogen Gas derived from Urea By LORD RAYLEIGH , F.B.S. Received August 17 , 1898 .
It has alreadybeen recorded that nitrogen prepared from urea by the action of sodium hypobromite or hypochlorite , is contaminated with an impurity heavier than nitrogen .
The weight of pure nitrogen in the globe employed being grams , the gas obtained with hypochlorite was 36 milligrams , or about per cent. , heavier .
" " A test with alkaline pyrogallate appeared to prove the absence from this gas of free oxygen , and only a trace of carbon could be detected when a considerable quantity of the gas was passed over red-hot cupric oxide into solution of baryta Most gases heavier than nitrogen are excluded from consideration by the thorough treatment alkali to which the material in question is subiected .
In Yiew of the large amount of the impurity , and of the fact that it was removed by passage over red-hot iron , I inclined to identify it with nitrous oxide ; but it appeared that there were strong chemical objections to this explanation , so the matter was left open at that time .
This summer I have returned to it ; and although it is difficult to establish by direct evidence the presence of nitrous oxide , I think there can remain little doubt that this is the true nation of the anomaly .
I need scarcely say that there is here no question of argon beyond the minute traces that might be dissolved in the liquids employed .
In the present experiments hypochlorite has been employed , and the procedure has been the same as before .
The generating bottle , prcviously exhausted , is first charged with the full quantity of hypochlorite tion , the urea is snbsequently fed in by degrees .
The sses iu succession over cold copper turnings , solid caustic soda , phosphoric anhydride .
In various experiments the excess of weight was found to be variable , from 23 to 36 lilligrams .
order to identify the impurity it was desirable to have as much of it as possible , nIld experiments were undertaken to find out the conditions of maximum weight .
A change of procedure to one which the urea first introduced , so that the hypochlorite would always be on the point of exhaustion , led in the wrong direction , giving an excess of but 7 .
Doterminations of refractivity by the apparatus , which uses only 1 .
of , allowed the substitution of a miniature genernting vessel , and showed that the ctivity ( and along with it the was increased previous heating of the hypochlorite to C. Acting upon this mation , rrangements vere m and }\ldquo ; ' Phi ] .
( 1895 ) , p. 188 .
' .
Soc. , 1896 ; vol. , 1806 .
Scc ulso Lord Rayleigh .
On th the for preliminary heating of the large geIlerating vessel and its charge , with the result that the excess.of weight was raised to 55 milligrams , or about per cent. of the whole .
In any case heat is developed during the reaction , and the heavier weights of some of the earlier trials probably resulted from a more rapid generation of gas .
In seeking to obtain evidence as to the nature of the impurity , the most important question is as to the presence or the absence of rbon .
The former experiment has been more than once repeated , with the result that the baryta showed a slight clouding .
Parallel experiments in which CO , , was purposely introduced , indicated that the whole carbon in a charge of gas weighing 30 milligrams in excess was about 1 milligram .
It is possible ( though scarcely , I think , probable ) that this carbon not to be attributed to the gas at all , and in any case the amount appears to be too small to afford an explanation of the 30 milligrtms excess of weight .
If carbon be excluded , the range for conjectnre is much rrowed .
As to oxygen , only traces were fouIld in most of the samples examined , whereas enormous quantities would be needed to explain the excessive weight .
It should be noted , however , that the extra heavy sample , showing 55 milligrams excess , gave evidence of containing a more appreciable quantity of oxygen .
It seems difficult to suggest any other impurity than nitrous oxide which could account for the an omalous weight .
Unfortunately there is no direct test for nitrous oxide , but so far as the examination has been carried , the behaviour of the gas is consistent with the view that this is the principal impurity .
The gas as Qollected has no smell .
The proportion of rlitrous oxide indicated by the refractometer is nearly the same as that deduced from the .
For example , the refractivity was observed of some of the gas which weighed 55 milligrams in exccss .
The proportion by of in the wholc required to explain the excess of weight is boive by lvhcnce The refractivity to as lllity of the deterllined by two indepe11dent sets of ervations ; .
If we assume that there are only nitrogen and nitrous oxide present , the proportion ( x ) of the latter can bs deduced from the known refractivities of nitrous oxide , nitrogen , and air , which are respectively , the number for air than for nitrogen .
Thus , The slight warlt of greement c ) ined 1 ) the of il Impurity in Nitrogen from Urea .
little oxygen , the recognition of which would lead to a rise in the second value of a fall in the first .
Examination of the gas from the refractometer with alkaline pyrogallate proved that oxygen was actually present .
Evidence may also be obtained by exploding the gas with excess of hydrogen , for which purpose oxy-hydrogen gas must be added .
But when nitrous oxide is in question , operations over water are useless , while for the more exact procedure with mercury , experience and appliances were somewhat deficient .
The contraction observed was rather in excess of the volume of nitrous oxide supposed to be present , but of this a good part is readily explained by a small proportion of free oxygen .
If the impurity is really nitrous oxide , it should admit of concentration by solution in water .
To test this , about 1 litre of water ( cooled with ice ) was shaken with the contents of a globe ( about 2 litres ) .
The dissolved gases were then expelled by boiling , and were collected over water rendered alkaline , in order to guard against the introduction of .
The quantity was , of course , too small for weighing , but it could readily be examined in the refractometer .
Of one sample , after desiccation , the refractivity relatively to air was found to be as high , although soms air was known to have entered accidentally .
The proportion of nitrous oxide in a mixturo with nitrogen which would have this refractivity is .
The impurity thus agrees with nitrous oxide in being very much more soluble in water than are the gases of the atmosphere .
In the analytical use of hypobromite for the determination of met , it has been noticed that the nitrogen collected is deficient by about 8 per cent. , but the matter does not appear to have been further examined .
The deficiency might be attributed to part of the urca emaining lmdecomposed , but more probably to oxidation of nitrogen .
Iu of analysis any nitrogen collected as nitrous oxide would llot appear anomalous , and the suggested requires the tiou in addition of higher oxides retained by the alkali .
There is reason to suspect that nitrogen prepared by the action of c.hlorine upon ammonia is also contaminated with nitrous oxide , and this is matter of interest , for the contamination in this case cannot well ) referred to carbon compound .
In two trials with distinct mplcs the refractivities were decidedly in excess of that of pure nitrogen .
APPENDIX .
Detnils of : Determinations of refractivity have proved so bc made so dily and upon such small ntities of gas , that it be sscll and Wcst , ' .
SOU .
:Tourn .
, ' ( 1 .
I 1 ) .
, 1874 .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the of the desirable to give further details of the apparatus employed , referring for explanation of the principles involved to the former communication already cited .
The optical parts , other than the tubes containing the gases , are mounted independently of everything else upon a bar of -iron 90 cm .
in length over all .
The telescopes are cheap instruments , of about 3 cm .
aperture and 30 cm .
focus , from which the eye-pieces are removed .
At one end of the -iron and in the focus of the collimating telescope the original slit is fixed .
This requires to be rather narrow , was made by scraping a fine line upon a piece of silvered glass .
At the further end the object-glass of the observing telescope carries two slits which give passage to the interfering pencils , and are situated opposite to the axes of the tubes holding the gases .
The sole -piece is a short length of glass rod\mdash ; the same as formerly described -of about 4 mm. diameter , which serves as horizontal magnifier .
The gas tubes are of brass , about 20 cm .
long and 6 mm. in bore .
These are soldered together side by side and are closed at the ends by plates of worked glass , so cemented as to obstruct as little as possible the passage of light immediately over the tubes .
There are two systems of bands , one formed by light which has traversed the gases within the tubes , the other by light which passes independently above ; and an observation consists in so adjusting the pressures within the tubes that the two fit one another .
Unless some further provision be made , there is necessarily a dark interval between the two systems of bands corresponding to the thickness of the , walls of the tubes and any projecting cement .
It is , perhaps , an improvement to bring the two sets of bands into closer juxta-position .
The interval can be abolished with the aid of a -plate ( fig. 1 ) , formed of worked glass 4 or 5 mm. thick .
This is placed immediately in front of the object-glass of the observing telescope , the plane of junction of the two glasses being hori- zontal and at the level of the obstacles which are to be blotted out of the field of view .
The objects sought in the of the remainder of the were ( i ) the use of a minimum of gas , ( ii ) independence of other pnmping ppliances .
To this end the glass tubes ssociated each optical ) were arranged so to serve ) ) MtlsciLrt , Optiq ) ' vol. 1 , Impurity in Gas der.ived as of eissler 1 .
The two lves of the } ) ) ) eing similar , it will snffice to speak of that which the gas to ) investigated .
The tubes in which the levels of mercury are are about 1 cm .
in diametel .
The fixed one , corresponding to tho " " -head\ldquo ; of a Geissler or Topler , is 33 cm .
in and is nted by a three-way tap , allowing it to ) placed in comeither with the tube or with one of narrow bore endiIlg in , drowned in a deep mercury tl.ongh .
The hottom of the fixed ) ed by 92 .
of narrower ) , is connected th ough hose of black ) with the moval)lemallometer tube .
The tter is 70 cm .
long and of one bore ( 1 cm .
) throughout .
It can either be held in the hanld or placed in a groove ( parallel to the fixed hich it can slide .
The four of mercury stand side side , the levels are referred by a cathetometer to a metre the central position .
It is not proposed to descril ) the cathetometer in detail , but it may be mentioned that it is of home construction , is mounted on centres attached to the floor and of the room .
It snfficed to record the levels to tenths of milliluetrcs .
The whole apparatus was constructed by Mr. Gordon .
If the sses closing the optical tubes were perfect , there wonld be coincidencc of ) ands corresponding to complete exhaustion of both tubes .
A c.orrection could be made for the residual error once for determined , but it is safer to make two independent settings , one at pressnres nearly atmospheric as the case admits , and a second minimnm pressures .
There are then in all eight readings to be coml)ined .
An example may be taken from a case already referred to 1 . .
IV .
, II refer to the dous llitrogen , III and to the .
nsed as standard of comparison .
I and the fixed in tcion with the optical ) .
The redncti effected by )traction of rows :\mdash ; , the diflereIlce between II and , of the 1litrogen , the ) etweeIl III and , of air .
The refrac.tivity to is , or the tnge of pressures for the air is , 0 -thirds of atmosphere .
is somctimes required to ensure matching the same bttItds th .
A mist of one ) in the ) xample old .
per ccnt .
in the snmch as holcl Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
number of bands concerned is about 96 per atmosphere of air , or about 62 over the range actually used .
It is wise always to include a match with pressures about midway between the extremes .
If the esults harmonise , an error of a single band is excluded , and it is hardly possible to make a mistake of two bands .
As regards accuracy , independent final results agree to onethousandth part .
" " On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
( Report , made to the Tsetse Fly Committee of the Society , of Observations and Experiments carried out from Noveml ) , 1896 , to August , 1898 By A. A. KANTHACK , H. E. DURHAM , and W. F. H. eceived October , 1898 .
At the request of the Colonial Office , the Royal Society of London appointed a Committee to -operate with Surgeon-Major Bruce in his research upon Nagana or the Tsetse Fly disease .
This Committee entrusted us with the actual experimental work .
The was to study Nagana systematically in ordinary laboratory animals , to investigate the life-history of the haematozoon discovered by Bruce , and , if possible , to discover methods of prevention , cure , or immunisation .
The material for our observations obtained in the first instance from the blood of a dog infected by the disease on the voyage from Africa , and brought to England in November , 1896 , by Dr. Waghorn .
The investigation was begun at once at the pathological laboratory of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , but in February , 1897 , was transferred to the pathological laboratory of the University of Cambridge .
The Hoematozoon nagana has already been described by Bruce , and is closely allied to the , of Surra .
We have had no opportunity of studying the latter disease , the relation of which to 1lagana is referred to later .
The parasite discovered and described by Bouget* in a horse in Algeria is also similar .
In English sewer rats decuis occasionally found , but this is quite distinct from the haematozoon of nagana , both in its morphological appearance and in its pathogenic effects vide .
, logs , , both sewer rats and white and piebald rats , are highly susceptible , and in these animals the disease has proved fatal in every case of infection which has been allowed to run to a close .
* Annals de l'Institut Pasteur , ' 1896 , p. 716 .

