I. " Examination of Rubia munjista , the East-Ilndian Madder , or Munjeet of Commerce .
" By JOIIN STENIIOUSE , LL. D. , F. R.S. Received December 21 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) As a portlon of this paper has already appeared in the ' Proceedings , ' vol. xii .
p. 633 , I shall confine myself in , this abstract to briefly noticing the additional observations which I have subsequently made .
By numerous analyses of munjistine crystallized out of spirits and dried at 100 ?
C. , and likewise of sublimed munjistine , I find that its formula is C16 H6 06 .
This result has been confirmed by analyses of the lead-salt , the formula of which I find to be 5(C16 11H 0 , ) , 6 PbO , exactly corresponding to the purpurine compound described by Wolff and Strecker* .
A comparison of the subjoined formula of alizarine , purpurine , and munjistine , Alizarme C20 H[6 06 Purpurine .
Ce* 1 .
16 C 6H Munjistine ... . .
C6 116 06 , indicates the very close relationship between these three substances , the , only true colouring principles of the different species of madder with which we are acquainted .
Tinetorial Power of Munrtjeet .
From a numerous series of experiments I have just completed , I find that the garancine from munjeet has about half the tinctorial power of the garancine made from the best madder , viz. Naples roots .
These , however , yield only about 30 to 33 per cent. of garancine , while munjeet , according to my friend Mr. IHiggin of Manichester , yields from 52 to 55 per cent. The actual amoulnt of colouring matter in munjeet and the best madder are very niearly the same ; but the inferiority of munjeet as a dye-stuff results mainly from its conitaining only the comparatively feeble colouring matters purpurine and munjistine .
The latter in large quantity is positively injuLrious ; so mulch is this the case , that when the greater part of the munjistine is removed from munljeet-garancine by boiling water , it yields much richer shades with alumina , mordatts .
Purpureine .
When purpurinie is dissolved in dilute ammoniia , and exposed to the air for about a month in a warm place , ammonia and water being added from time to time as they evaporate , the purpurine disappears , whilst a new colouring matter is formed , which dyes unmordanted silk and wool of a fine rose-colour , but is incapable of dveing vegetable fabrics mordanted with alumina .
This new substance , which , from its mode of formation and physical properties , is so analogous to orceine , I have called puqzpureine .
When pure , it forms fine lonlg needles of a deep crimson colour , insoluble in .
dilute acids , slightly soluble in pure water , and very soluble in alcohol and in water renidered slightly alkaline .
Professor Stokes has examined purpureiine optically , and finds the spectrum the same in character as that of purpurine , but differenit in position , the balnds of absorption being severally nearer to the red end .
From the analyses , purpureine seems to yield the formula C 11H24 N2020 .
Nitropui:purine .
When purpurine is dissolved in a small quantity of nitric acid , spec .
grav .
about *135 , and heated to 1000 C. , it gives off red fumes , and on being allowed to cool , a substanice separates in fine scarlet prisms , somewhat like chromate of silver , only of a brighter colour .
It is quite insoluble in water , but slightly soluble in spirit ; it is , however , soluble in strong nitric acid .
When heated , it deflagrates .
From this circumstance , Ind considering its mode of formation , it is evidently a nitro-substitution coiipound .
I have therefore called it nitropurpurine .
When alizarine and munjistine are sulbjected , in the manner above described for purpurine , to the joint action of ammonia and oxygen , substantive colours are produiced , neither of which are crystalline .
Action of Bromine on Alizarine .
Wheni alcoholic solutions of alizarine are mixed with water , and aqueous solution of bromine added , a yellow precipitate is produced ; the solution filtered from this , after expelling the spirit by heat , deposits a deep orangecoloured crystalline compound , which , from the analyses of six specimens prepared at different times , I find has the composition 60 16 Br2 018 C20 16 2(C20 H5 BrO6 ) .
Purpurine , when treated with bromine in a similar manner , does not yield a corresponding compound .

