February 26 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , Treasurer and V.P. , in the Chair .
The following paper was read : " On the Motions of the Iris .
" By B. E. Brodhurst , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. Received November 20 , 1851 .
The observations made in this paper are distributed under three heads .
First , the author examines the iris in conjunction with the organic system of nerves .
Secondly , he exposes the relation of the several nerves of the orbit in reference to the iris .
And , thirdly , by tracing the membrane through the lower orders of animals , he shows the influence of the ophthalmic ganglion upon the iris , and the necessity of its presence for the accomplishment of the motions of the membrane , i. e. contraction and dilatation of the pupil .
It is shown that the pupil is most contracted during healthy sleep , and especially during that of childhood ; that in death it assumes a median state , neither contracted nor dilated ; and that , when disease is present , the pupil is always dilated , and dilated in accordance with the effect produced upon the trisplanchnic system of nerves .
Also , it is stated that the pupil is dilated , when through disease the action of the voluntary muscles is abnormally increased , but that it is contracted when the functions of nutrition are well and actively performed ; and that , with concussion and compression of the brain , the pupil is usually dilated when the power of the voluntary muscles yet remains ; that it is fixed and immovable when total insensibility exists ; contracted when pressure or counter pressure is made upon the corpora quadrigemina of the opposite side , and dilated when the injury is more general , but less severe .
The author refers the first class of motions , or the primary motions of the iris , directly to the sympathetic system of nerves ; whilst the direct movements , or those produced by the sensation of light , are effected through the cerebral nervous arc , as shown by Flourens , Marshall Hall , and others : and he thinks that contraction of the pupil , when a near object is presented to the eye , may be explained by the greater stimulus thus afforded to the retina and the sensorium ; for he finds that when a near object is presented to the eye with a faint light , but a more distant one with a strong light , the pupil is most contracted for the more distant object .
That the influence of the retina and the cerebral nervous arc is secondary in producing the motion of the iris , and that this membrane is not a mere diaphragm for the admission or exclusion of light , but that it yields to mental impressions , as well as to those which operate on the vegetative system of nerves , in preference to the effect upon the retina , is shown by the result which is produced upon the iris by any sudden passion in causing dilatation of the pupil , notwithstanding that a strong light be at the same time thrown upon the retina .
Hippus , and the motions of the iris which are observed , especially in amaurotic children , are alluded to as motions independent of the light , and consequently , of the retina and sensorium .
The author then proceeds to state the effect of irritation and division of the several nerves of the orbit .
He finds , that , on irritating the third nerve within the cranial cavity , slight contraction of the pupil ensues , to be followed by dilatation .
On dividing the third nerve , the pupil becomes dilated beyond its median extent .
Irritation of the optic nerve within the cranium produces contraction of the pupil .
Section of the same nerve gives rise to an insensible retina and a dilated pupil .
Irritation of the fifth nerve excites slight motion in the iris .
Division of the fifth produces temporary contraction of the pupil .
In the space of half an hour this effect will have ceased , and the pupil will have resumed its former diameter .
If a slight galvanic current be passed along the sympathetic , contraction of the pupil will be produced ; but let the sympathetic be divided , at the superior cervical ganglion for instance , and instantly the pupil shall forcibly contract , and again widely dilate .
If a weak galvanic current be used , and the poles brought into contact with the selerotica at its junction with the cornea , contraction of the pupil to two-thirds of its actual diameter takes place , and this effect continues so long as the current continues to be formed ; but on breaking connection , the pupil immediately resumes its former diameter .
So soon as life is extinct , galvanism ceases to affect the iris , whether applied to the membrane itself , through the external coats , or though the poles be in contact with the retina ; but if applied to the sympathetic , movement may be excited in the iris .
The optic nerve being divided , the pupil is dilated : irritation of the third nerve then produces merely a slight and momentary effect upon the iris ; but if the sympathetic be divided , the pupil will contract violently , and again dilate beyond its previous state of dilatation .
The sympathetic being divided , irritation of the cranial nerves does not affect the iris ; but though the cerebrum and corpora quadrigemina be removed , division of the sympathetic will still excite the iris to motion .
And , consequently , the author infers that the basic or primary motion of the iris is derived from the vis motoria of the excito-motor ganglionic system : he shows aiso , that where the ophthalmic ganglion is wanting , as in fishes and reptiles , the iris is motionless .
Allusion is , lastly , made to some medicinal agents , to show their influence upon the nervous centres , and their consequent effect upon the iris : they are classed as follows : I. True depressors and pupil dilators .
II .
True excitants and pupil dilators .
III .
Stimulants which become depressors , which dilate the pupil .
IV .
Excitors of voluntary nerves and pupil dilators .
V. Sedatives which terminate as depressors , which first contract and then dilate the pupil .
VI .
Excitants which become sedatives , which first dilate and then contract the pupil .
And from what has gone before , it is concluded , that contraction of the pupil is the active state of the iris , and that dilatation is its enervated condition ; that a healthy retina and cerebral nervous arc are necessary to the motions of the iris , and the ophthalmic ganglion to motion ; and that the primary motion of the iris is due to organic nervous influence , but its forced or animal motion to the reflected stimulus of light upon the retina .

