]\gt ; 358 Mr. E. B. Elliott .
On the Interchange of the [ June 20 , In the case of liquids a quadrant electrometer was lmersed in the liquid in uesbion , and the lection observed at different temperatures .
The liquid was heated in a water-bath , and the needle and adrants were attached to insulating supf ) orts above the bath .
The electromotive was ined from a Ruhmkorff without the condenser , and with a high resistance between the terminals .
by which to control the E.M.F. The ] of a second electrometer in air were connected to the poles of the liquid electrometer , and the ratio of the readings of these two ve a measllre of the specific indnctive capacity pendent of iati o of E.M.F. The resuIts are shown in the following table ; and in ] last column are inserted for comparison the rate of change of active index for the four of the liquids for which .
Dale and Gladstone have determined it .
Mean values are given except for these four .
For glycerine there is no similarity between the two effects ; but for the other three the effects are of the same order of magnitude , although not exactly in the ratio 1 : 2 indicated by the etic theory of light .
between 1crease oifind tacit tndex pegree f XII .
' On the of the bless in certain inear Differential tors.\ldquo ; By E. B. ELLIOTT , of Queen 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by STER , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) Recent theories of functional diffel.ential invariants , cyclicants , \amp ; c. , have brought iuto notice a considerable numbel of 1889 .
] Variables in Linear Differential linear differential operators , whose arguments are the derivat.ives of one regard to the others of a set of variables connected by any single relation .
By aid of such operators , their quality of annihilators or generators , the forms of classes of ctions of derivatives having properties of persistence in form ious classes of tions have been lssed with some completeness , and has been thrown on the rties of nctions in conncxion with such transformations .
Often , ever , ises the ions deaIt with have not been in all the variables , the ation has pres pposed 1 one , or one of a set , of the variables has be ) choscnl the dependent variable .
A complete theory of the of the variables in the classef } of functions been a lcratuln , and towards the meant of that end a theory of the of the variables in the operators boen a first requiremcllt .
Such theory it is the aim of the esent memoir to pply for the c of and of thrce val.iables .
I speak ( the operators appertainin to the two classes of cases as binary and teruary operators respecti For the operators dealt with I adopt form , is a extension of oue introdnced in of lIajor lIacilI , and for the nary otors one is closely ous . .
By and are denoted two variables connected by any By and meant and respectively .
Leb and be corresondino { inite increments of nnd , so that . .
, and consequently . .
, say .
In like lncr J , .
be defined .
Dellote tho the being to in valucs not less than least of and values of are llot admissible , but valucs .
E. B. iott .
On the Interchange of the [ June 20 , be either positive or negative .
The value zero of is admitted , and that of somewhat special , is not excluded .
What is sought and effected is the expression of any such operator in terms of operatol'S of same form in dent .
process depends on the use of a certain symbolical form for , and on the proof that a imple factor produces from that symbolical the symbolical form of the equioperator .
If , so that none of the coefficients of powers of in is wanting from , the inclusive formula of transformation is fouuCl to be\mdash ; ; and conclusion is deduced , among others , that there are two classes of seIf cciprocal operators , a class of positive and one of ative character , .
:\mdash ; and Particular tion is devoted to the special cases of and ; also to the transformation of and , the annihilators of invariants and of reciprocants .
of course , not involving the first derivative , is not an operator of the clas itself , but is linear in such opcrators .
If the of transformation is found to .
be In particular , If say , it is 1889 .
] ariabtes in certain Linear Differential Operators .
II .
Operators .
Let be variables connected by a relation of form knowJl or unknown .
Let denote respectively Let be tlIe expansion of the nxth power of an in ement of in erms o the of and and define as the operator and as ; , ?
/ , ; the opcrators obtained from this .
cyclically once and twice respectively .
Attention is ined to positive values of , except that the valne zero of is admitted , in so its admission introduction of no new iden .
' and denoted integers or zeroes , or in ) .
Thus fi eld of investi,.ation is the of covered in with binary operators .
rrhe comprehensive theorem for the transformation of these ternary operators is that , There are three classes of cyclically persistent operators , of diiferent characters , each to a cube of unity , .
:\mdash ; , 1 , 1 ; Decomposition of lorine-water by Light .
[ June 20 , Mosb of the ternary operators in recent investigations have had their importance established , do not invoIve first derivatives .
They are the results of replacing first derivatives by zeroes in operators such as above , or may be as linear nctions of different tors .
The transformation of the various annihilators of pure and projective cyclicants is considered from lafter point of view .
It is indicated , however , withonb much development that , if preferred , it is possible to consider the nsformation of operators free from first derivatives without use of operators in which those derivatives occu In illustration of the method it is established that , if ' ; denote that of which is free from first derivatives , , 1 ; gives for diffelent values of a class of cyclically persistent operators .
XIII .
" " On the Rate of Decomposition of CMorine.watel by Light By G. GORE , .D .
, .
Received June 13 , ld89 .
( Abs ) In research , the author has investigated by means of voltaic balance the kind and amount of chemical change , the at which decomposition proceeds , and the chemical composition of the products formed at all of decomposition of ater , when exposed to daylight and sunlight in colourless glass vessels .
The -water , by exposure to diffused ) , was decomposed with moderate uniformity , but at a radually diminishino as by the losses of voltaic energy , until no further loss of such energy occurl.ed ; the liqui consisted of an aqueous solution of hydrochlol.ic acid , hypochlorous acid , and acid .
By further exposure of the liquid to and during several peroxide of hydrogen was formed ; and the amount of acid and of very sIowly increased until that of the latter becanle about to of dilute hydrochloric acid of to of the chlorine all the other chief perties of final liquid reed with those of a mixtnre of dilute hydrochloric acid and peroxide of .
] furthcr exposure to caused no er in composition , amount of , or olher property of tho liquid .

