Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
By John Aitken , F.E.S. ( Received December 14 , 1917 .
) In the ' Proceedings ' of this Society ( Series A , vol. 94 , No. A 656 , November , 1917 ) , there appears a paper under the above title by Sir Napier Shaw .
In that paper reference is made to my experiments on cyclonic motion .
As no objections are offered to any of the points raised by me , theie does not seem to be any necessity for my making a reply , unless it be that , having used the language of cyclonic and anticyclonie circulation , I am called upon to support that theory , or to acknowledge that Sir Napier Shaw 's holds the field .
Before accepting this new theory , one naturally enquires as to the foundations on which it is built ; but first we had better to try to understand why the writer of the paper is dissatisfied with the cyclonic theory .
He tells us that we have not been interpreting correctly the charts of winds and isobars formerly issued by the Meteorological Office , and says that , " if the motion of the air in a cyclone had really been motion of a revolving fluid symmetrical with regard to a vertical axis it would not have appeared in circular form on the map ... ... ... consequently the appearance of uniform and symmetrical instantaneous motion in a cyclone is in itself proof that we have not in that case symmetrical motion about a centre of a mass which travels as a whole .
" Having thus stated that the charts of isobars and winds are frauds , as they are not what they seem to be , he proceeds to discuss what the winds and isobars ought to be in an area over which a cyclone is passing .
For this purpose he selects conditions which are only to be found in the very small disturbances known as secondary cyclones , and at p. 41 he gives a series of figures showing what he thinks the winds ought to be when a cyclone is stationary , and when it is travelling at different relative velocities .
Let us now consider in detail those figures which we are told represent what the winds ought to be in moving cyclones .
The problem here illustrated is , with slight variations , the old one of the motion in the wheel of a carriage while moving along a road .
Some people have difficulty in seeing that the wheel is rotating in the way it rotates when the axle is raised and the wheel is free to revolve .
The fact that the part of the wheel touching the ground has no motion seems to confuse our ideas , and some call it a rolling movement and not a true revolving one .
To help to clear our ideas we can imagine the following experiment : Mount in the carriage , on a vertical axis , Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
another wheel of the same diameter as the one resting on the ground , and gear the two to revolve in the same direction and at the same speed .
Sitting in the carriage while it is in motion , we shall see that the horizontal wheel is spinning round all right , and that its centrifugal force is equal all round .
It has no " dead point " like the wheel on the road .
If we now steer the carriage to the side of the road where there is a wall we shall find that the part of the horizontal wheel next the wall has no motion relatively to it .
It is as " dead " at that point as the part of the other wheel touching the ground .
It is easy to see , however , that the seeming deadness here is due to the backward motion of the rim of the wheel being just equal to the forward movement of the carriage .
The movements in the cyclone illustrated by the figures referred to are of the same kind .
It is the movement of the air in the cyclone relatively to the earth which is shown by the lines drawn through the circles , that is , of the winds in cyclones when stationary , and when moving at different velocities .
We might say that the cyclone rolled its way through the air .
At some point to the left of the centre where the circular motion is equal to the translational one , there will be no wind , and the cyclone will , so to speak , roll along a line at that distance from the centre of its track .
In the figures referred to this " dead " or calm part will be above the centre of the circle representing the cyclone in fig. 2 , and in fig. 3 it will be at the very top of the circle .
At p. 44 of the paper , the writer , after discussing the meaning of the lines in the four figures , says : " Let us , therefore , now regard figs. 2 and 4 as diagiams of isobars of that part of a map which contains a mass of revolving fluid carried along in a main current .
" I feel quite unable to accept this conclusion , these lines represent the paths of the air relatively to the earth .
\gt ; iow , the centrifugal force which produces the isobars is determined by the rotation oi the air relatively to the axis .
We cannot help coming to the conclusion , therefore , that the isobars will be circular as in fig. 1 , where there is no translation , and remain circular while travelling .
The centrifugal conditions in a horizontally spinning wheel such as in the imaginary carriage pieviously described do not change when the carriage is put in motion , and one would expect that the isobars represented in fig. 1 would continue while it was travelling .
ihe conditions selected in the paper for illustration of a moving mass of revolving fluid are very exceptional , and are only found in secondary cyclones , in which the revolving mass of air is formed in a body of air all travelling in the same direction ; while in ordinary cyclones the air blows from different directions on opposite sides , the result being that the latter do not travel at X 2 l Dr. J. Ait ken .
anything like the speed of the former , but only at about one-third to one-half of it , so that figs. 2 , 3 and 4 , p. 41 , give us no information as to .what the winds should be in ordinary cyclones , as these travel , not in a general current , but , as has been shown , '* ' in the direction of the strongest winds entering them , and hence the vagaries in their wanderings .
Though they generally get the strongest winds on their southerly side and move eastwards , yet they sometimes get them on other sides , and they may slow down or stop when the winds from all directions become nearly equal , or go back on their track , if the strongest winds are on the north side .
Secondaries , on the contrary , have to travel in the main current , and , though they may disappear , they cannot retrace their steps .
In ordinary cyclones , therefore , we have to deal with totally different and much more complicated conditions ; but I think it will be found that the winds and isobars in the weather charts really represent what they look like .
We will now confine our attention to these ordinary cyclones , which the writer of the paper says are evidently not revolving masses of air , since their winds do not blow in the paths they ought to follow if the revolution is accompanied by translation .
I suppose it was necessary to make some assumption for the purpose of working out the mathematics of the subject , but it was hard on the cyclonic theory to treat the cyclone as an eddy , with a closed lower end .
If that had been its structure , then there would have been some justification for saying that if the winds were circular it was evident that their motion was not a combination of rotational and translational motions .
Now , according to the cyclonic theory the cyclone js not simply an eddy in which the air moves in circular paths , but is a system in constant flux ; fresh air is flowing into it all round .
But this incoming air does not belong to the cyclone , and does not possess the same motion as the air in the cyclone .
It is new matter coming in which will ultimately take up cyclonic motion , but while approaching the centre cannot be considered to have true cyclonic and translational motion .
As the isobars in the weather charts are the result of observation , I presume we may treat them as facts .
Such being the case , are not the winds in cyclones just those which we would expect under the conditions represented by them ?
A travelling cyclone will pick up its air in very much the same way as it does when it is stationary .
That it does so we can see by observing what is taking place in small artificial cyclones and in eddies in water .
In these we can see that the lines of inflow at the bottom are alike when they are stationary and when travelling .
If the cyclone were a closed system , it would , in pushing its way through the atmosphere , cause the stream-lines of * ' Phil. Trans. Roy .
Sac .
, Ed in .
, ' vol. 40 , Part I ( No. 7 ) .
Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
the surrounding air to be quite different from what they are .
If we are to find winds whose direction of motion relatively to the earth is a compound of their rotational and translational velocities , then we must look for them at higher elevations , where the air has acquired a true cyclonic motion .
If the above explanation be correct , then some evidence might be obtained from cloud observations .
The path of a cloud moving under these conditions , as seen from the earth , is a curtate cycloid similar to that shown here in fig. 1 .
In this curve the rate of advance of the centre is two-thirds the velocity of revolution .
The arrow-heads in the line of advance of the centre of revolution , and on the curved lines , show the direction of motion .
The distances between the black dots on the lines give the relative velocities at the different parts .
This curved line would represent the track of the shadow of a cloud on the earth under a vertical sun .
It should be noted that this curve gives the successive motions of the air in a cyclone , while the curves and arrows in the figures in the paper referred to give the instantaneous conditions .
An examination of fig. 1 , here given , shows that the clouds on the right-hand side of the cyclone will travel quickly and change their direction slowly , while those on the left-hand side will travel slowly and move in more curved paths .
V\ hile on this subject , it may be pointed out that , if we take an ordinary spiral spring and place it vertically , it gives a fair illustration of the circular and upward movements of the air in a stationary cyclone , and ; if we distort this spring by drawing the top end to one side in a direction at right angles to its length , we get a series of curves similar to those drawn in fit*- .
1 .
O Hg .
2 is from a photograph of a piece of brass wire , which was first wound round a cylinder to make it spiral , and its two ends then simply drawn apart .
I do not know if there is any observational evidence of a quicker and more uniform direction of the clouds over the right-hand side of a. cyclone than oxer the left .
, hut it appears to me that the writer of the paper must look to the direction of motion in the higher winds for evidence of the combined Dr. .1 .
Aitken .
circular and translational movements , and not to the winds at the surface ol ' the earth .
We cannot expect , however , to find a close resemblance -between the motion of clouds and paths such as are shown in fig. 1 , because a cyclone is not a closed eddy , and , as there is an intake of air at the bottom , so there must be an outflow somewhere , and this will affect the motion of the clouds .
Fig. 2 .
The writer of the paper has selected a small secondary cyclone for his illustration , and , as these cyclones move in a uniform general current , seems to keep to this idea for all cyclones , because further on he objects to Egnells law , that the velocities of the air at any height are inversely proportional to the densities of the air at those heights .
He ridicules this statement , and gives figures to show that , if it is true , the top of a column of revolving fluid 10 kilom .
high would be 2000 miles away from its foot after a day .
Let us turn to nature .
We do not find any such supposed upper current .
The clouds in the upper currents move in very much the same directions as the lower winds , though veering a little in advance in veering winds .
There is ii3 evidence of a general current sweeping across the cyclonic area , therefore there is no chance of their tops being swept away .
I think it will be admitted that it is unfair to the theory of cyclonic circulation to perpetuate the commonly received statement\#151 ; repeated in the paper referred to\#151 ; that small revolving storms , such as the eddy of dry leaves , the " dust-devil , " waterspouts , whirlwinds , and tropical revolving storms , all have their analogue in the vortex-ring .
They bear a likeness to it , but they are fundamentally different .
The vortex-ring is a closed system , in which the same air keeps circling .
Its rotation and its travel through the air are derived from the impetus it receives in the smoke-box , but it is a dying system from the moment of its birth , whereas eddies and small revolving storms are open systems , and can be fed and grow .
The air composing them is constantly changing , and their travel is determined by the motion of the 4ir entering them .
They are only partially closed at the bottom , where the air enters , because the air there has a less velocity , owing to its friction on the surface of the earth , and they are partially closed at the top by the ascent of the lighter air , and by the change of the velocity of the outflowing air .
So far as can be seen , they do not require Revolving Fluid m the Atmosphere .
the elaborate capping suggested by the writer of the paper .
It seems ver ) strange that this erroneous idea of cyclones and eddies being closed systems should have persisted , because we are constantly seeing in our everyday experience evidences of the indraught at the bottom .
One cannot e\ en stii one 's tea without demonstrating this .
Tea-leaves are heavier than water , and , if they were rotating at the same velocity as the tea higher up , would , by their centrifugal force , be driven to the circumference of the cup .
But we always find them at the centre of it , because the tea and the leaves , by their friction on the bottom , have part of their velocity destroyed ; their centrifugal force is therefore less than the tea higher up , with the result that the tea and the leaves on the bottom are drawn by the bottom current entering the centre of revolution .
Rivers would also seem to do some of their excavating by means of their eddies , as these draw in solid matter at the bottom , and transport and mix it with the higher water , so assisting the stream to carry it away .
I shall now return to the somewhat exceptional conditions represented by the charts of isobars and winds selected by the writer of the paper to illustrate his ideas of a revolving fluid in the atmosphere , as shown in his fig. 5 .
Most of us will admit it is a cyclone , but it is a very different one from the ordinary cyclone .
It is formed in a current all flowing in the same direction on both sides of its centre , and not , as usual , surrounded by winds from different directions .
The extreme violence of the winds accompanying the passage of this cyclone was due to the great velocity of translation of the centre , so that on the south side of the cyclone the rotational velocity was added to the translational .
It is probable that the calmest area in the cyclone represented in fig. 5 was on the northern side of the centre , where the circular motion was equal and opposite to the translation velocity , and not near the centre as in ordinary cyclones .
Again , it may be noted that the speed of translation of this cyclone was quite extraordinary , being two or three times that of -an ordinary one .
This selected example of cyclonic motion represents conditions only to be found in secondaries , and helps but little in explaining ordinary cyclones .
I should like to make a few remarks on these small secondary and violent storms .
Their origin seems to be somewhat obscure .
What has disturbed the even flow of the main current and caused the eddy ?
There seems to be a possibility that rain may be the cause ; not the well-known liberation of heat due to the condensation of water vapour , but purely its mechanical action .
Long ago , when making observations on the dust particles in the air of Paris\#151 ; where I was kindly given permission by M. Eiffel to use his tower for this purpose , long before it was opened to the public\#151 ; while observing at Dr. J. Aitken .
the top of the tower , the number of particles was found to vary greatly , as might be expected at so great an elevation over a highly polluted area .
The highest number observed was over 100,000 per cubic centimetre ; frequently it was half that number , or even less .
But about mid-day a cloud came up , and it began to rain .
After a short time , the number fell to 226 per cubic centimetre , which is just about the figure for pure air anywhere on the Continent .
This change in the number had evidently been brought about by the rain , not by its washing out the dust , as that is a slow process , but by the mechanical action of the falling drops , which by their friction had caused a downward component in the wind , which brought the purer air of a greater elevation down to the top of the tower .
The effect of this downward current of the upper air , induced by the drag of the rain , can frequently be seen at low levels .
On the approach of rain , especially if it be heavy , a change in the wind can be frequently observed , the wind in front being accelerated , that behind retarded , while the direction of the winds on the sides is changed .
This downward current will obviously give rise to a want of uniformity in the mass of moving air , and it seems possible that it may form an obstruction to it , and so give rise to an eddy .
Looking for experimental illustration of this idea , I took a large circular flat-bottomed vessel and filled it with water in which a little fine sawdust was mixed to show its movements .
After putting the water in circular motion , and allowing it time to settle into steady flow so as to provide a steady stream of water , a small quantity of sand\#151 ; to act like rain on the air\#151 ; was allowed to fall into the water , and while pouring it out the hand was kept as nearly as possible following the current , so as to cause the sand to fall into the same part of the moving water .
When this was done a quite well formed eddy or cyclone was observed , which travelled roimd in the vessel at the distance from the centre at which the sand was dropped in .
It was , in miniature , like a secondary cyclone moving in the current of the large cyclone revolving in the vessel .
Only a small quantity of sand is required to produce this result , 1 or 2 grm. being sufficient .
The writer of the paper referred to , when describing the conditions in the small secondary cyclone shown in his chart , fig. 5 , states that there had been heavy rain in the line of the cyclone before it reached the place marked in the chart .
He also gives in fig. 7 the isobars surrounding another small cyclone\#151 ; so small that it had no effect on the isobars of the main cyclone .
The diameter of the area of damage was only 150 to 300 yards .
The barometer was hardly affected at a distance of two or three miles , though close to the centre of the track the barometer made a sudden fall and recovery of 10 mb .
, which took place in less than a minute .
This destructive storm was Revolving Fluid w the Atmosphere .
evidently a secondary , and was formed in conditions similar to those of the one above referred to .
The weekly weather reports of the Meteorological Office do not give sufficient detailed information as to the rainfall accompanying this storm ; but as Mr. Billett , in his memoir of the storm , quoted in the paper referred to , states that on the day of the storm " a severe thunderstorm swept the West of England and Wales from south of Devon to Cheshire .
and developed locally into a tornado of exceptional violence , " the presumption is that , as there had been thunder , there had also been rain along the path of this cyclone* It would not be advisable , however , to 'draw the conclusion that the rainfall was the primary cause of these two secondary cyclones , without further information as to similar cases , and clearer ideas as to the details of how the changes produced by the rainfall current cause the cyclone .
Sir Napier Shaw , in comparing ordinary cyclones , in which the height is only a fraction of their diameter , with small cyclones and tornadoes , in which the height is a number of times their diameter , likens them to " a penny and a pin .
" This simile , like most others that at once catch the imagination , very much overdoes the comparison .
If we are to compare the two forms of motion to a penny and a pin , we should remember that we must either thicken the penny to the length of the pin , or we must cut down the pin to a length of a little over 1 mm. to make it equal to the thickness of the penny ; the contrast is now truer , though not so striking .
I should like to say a few words about the revolving fluid referred to in the last paragraph of p. 56 of the paper .
The writer says this was not a cyclonic depression such as those experienced in the British Isles .
He tells us it was first identified on August o , 1891 , in the mid-Atlantic .
He says it was " a tropical revolving storm , an acknowledged eddy " ; it first journeyed westwards to the coast of Florida , then turned eastwards over the Gulf Stream as an intense cyclonic depression , and continued to move eastwards , to the English Channel , ultimately losing itself over the Mediterranean on September 9 .
This revolving storm , we are told , began as an eddy\#151 ; or pin , to use the writer 's simile\#151 ; and developed into a penny .
Now , if the * uary , 11)18 .
Since the above was written I have , owiug to the kindness of Sir Napier Shaw , read Mr. Billett 's report on the above storm , and find that about 4 r.M. heavy iain fell in Devonshire in the line of the track of the storm .
One observer near Exeter wrote : T do not think 1 ever saw such rain out of the tropics .
" Another , writing from near mid-Devon , says , " At 4.f\gt ; r.M. a perfect deluge of rain fell " this Storm only lasted 10 minutes.'1 This seems to have been the site and origin of the tornado which moved northwards through Wales less than two hours later .
Both the heaviness of the rainfall , and its local distribution , were favourable for the formation of eddy or tornado motion in the manner above suggested.\#151 ; J. A. -258 Dr. J. Aitken .
pin and the penny forms of revolving fluids were two quite distinct kinds of motion , would it be possible for the pin to develop into the penny ?
We can hardly suppose that there was sufficient energy in the eddy to enable it to expand and to keep it rotating and travelling for these 36 days while it moved from the mid-Atlantic to Florida , and from there eastwards to the Mediterranean .
Does it not seem far more likely that the eddy , when it got into the warm moist air as it approached the coast of Florida , would , by drawing it in , soon get fed and grow to the size of an ordinary cyclone , and that it would keep up its energy by the supplies it received while passing over the Gulf Stream on its way to the Channel ?
There is another point to which I may refer bearing on the above change of " the pin into the penny , " or eddy into cyclone , as I think it helps us to understand them better .
It is the effect of the pressure gradient on the form of circulation .
If we make the experiment I have described in a previous paper* with an inverted cyclone in water , giving the water a certain rate of rotation , and keeping the level of the outflow only slightly under the level of the water in the vessel , so as to give a small " head " and slow outflow , we shall find , if we watch the lines of outflow in the cyclone in the water approaching the outlet under these conditions , that the water comes from a wide area all round the outlet , and slowly curves round , the curving becoming quicker as the outlet is approached .
When no previous circular motion is given to the water , the lines of flow are radial and come from all directions ; but with an initial circular motion and a slow outflow the lines of flow are now the radial lines slightly curved , but still coming from a distance all round .
When the rate of outflow is increased , however , and the gradient deepened , the centrifugal force of the inflowing water puts a barrier against this inflow from the sides and causes the inflow to pass through the end of the cyclone , and in so doing lengthens the tube of resisting water and causes it to grow till it reaches the bottom of the vessel , the cyclone having now the appearance of a water tube of small diameter .
By raising or lowering the outlet end of the syphon tube we can cause the cyclone to expand or contract at pleasure\#151 ; that is , change it from the penny to the pin .
We can deduce the same conclusion from the form of the cyclone made with a steep gradient , as it can be seen that there is a tendency for it to widen at its lower end , owing to the gradient there being less steep than at the upper .
With a slight gradient the lines of flow are well represented by the balance spring of a watch distorted perpendicularly to its plane ; while with a steep gradient the circulation is represented by an ordinary spiral spring .
* ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. Edin .
, ' vol. 36 , Part I ( No. 7 ) .
Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
The bearing of these observations on the cyclones in the atmosphere is very evident .
With slight gradients the cyclones remain large , with wide range of indraught and moderate winds .
But if the barometric gradient becomes steep , the cyclone draws itself into a. smaller area and expends its energy on a smaller amount of air , so increasing the violence of its winds and powers of destruction .
It would appear that we have in our latitudes the first form , while tornadoes and other violent cyclones belong to the latter type ; but there is no essential difference between them .
The only difference seems to be in effects of the steepness of their barometric gradients .
That these should differ is quite what might be expected , as the supplies of driving power are much greater and more concentrated in the tropics than in the temperate zones .
In conclusion , let me say that though this paper will appear to many to be written with more confidence and finality than the subject admits of , yet I am quite conscious that there are many difficulties in the cyclonic theory of atmospheric circulation : and since much remains to be revealed regarding cyclonic and eddy motion , the solution of these difficulties will probably have to await the extension of our knowledge in this direction .

