582 Staff-Commander E. W. Creak on the [ June 17 , It would thus appear that , as far as we can judge from these observations , there is more solar heat at London in years of maximum than in years of minimum disturbance .
This agrees very well with a remark made by Messrs. De la Rue , Stewart , and Lowey , the Kew Observers , to the effect that the number of fine days in the year on which solar pictures might be taken appeared to be greater in years of maximum than in years of minimum sun-spot frequency .
XX .
" On the Effects of Iron Masts on Compasses placed near themBy Staff-Commander E. W. Creak , R.N. Communicated by Captain Evans , R.N. , F.R.S. , by permission of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
Received June 17 , 1875 .
The question of the position of the standard compass on board ship , whether of wood or iron , is one of the greatest importance with respect to safe navigation .
In H.M. ships it is one of the principal duties of the Superintendent of Compasses to secure the best possible position for this compass , and when that position has been determined , to ascertain the horizontal and vertical components of the total magnetic force resulting from the iron used in the construction and equipment of every class of vessel , in order that the correctness of this choice of position may be insured and the facts recorded .
" With proper instruments in experienced hands these observations can be readily made ; but in iron ships it is a somewhat intricate matter to eliminate the part which the hull plays in producing these forces , from those caused by iron used in equipment , unless observations are made on completion of the hull and afterwards as the equipment progresses .
In wooden ships , however , the case is different ; for the great mass of the ship being of wood and the iron in detached masses , the latter can be attacked in detail , and the disturbance they cause to the several compasses nearly observed .
Carefully conducted investigations made in different ships on the effects of similar bodies of iron are very valuable to those directing compass arrangements , as they give the necessary information as to how near those bodies may be approached or of necessity avoided .
The effects of introducing iron riders for strengthening wooden ships were in a measure discussed by the late Captain E. J. Johnson in his work ' On the Necessity of ascertaining the Deviation of the Compass , ' where he treats of the diagonal iron riders of the 'Encounter ' and 'Conflict , ' but afterwards more fully in the papers which the present Hydrographer , Captain Evans , F.R.S. , has written and published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society , Journal of the United Service Institution , and Transactions of the Institute of Naval Archi[875 .
] Effects of Iron Masts on Compasses .
ects .
In these papers may be traced in turn the effects of adding steam-ingines and boilers , iron beams , and armour plating ; but until lately no rood opportunity has occurred for accurately defining the action of iron uasts in producing compass disturbance from observation .
The case referred to is that of H.M.8 .
' Undauntedand when about to visit that ship in the ordinary course of my duties in the Compass Department , I ^as directed by the Hydrographer to make a special series of observations of the horizontal and vertical forces at all three compasses , as the lower masts and bowsprit were of iron .
To prepare the way for a discussion of the results of these observations , it appears necessary to give a short history of the two principal vessels mentioned in this paper , and also to go over some already well-trodden ground , whilst taking account of all the iron and the effects on their compasses , until the question of the iron masts alone remains to be settled .
Eor some years past there have been lying in Sheemess harbour two wooden frigates of exactly the same build , tonnage , and horse-power , namely , the ' Undaunted ' and 'Newcastle'\#151 ; the only important difference between them being that the 'Undaunted ' has iron masts , the 'Newcastle ' wooden .
The diagonal iron riders which form the principal portion of the iron used in construction of their hulls are about 6 inches in breadth , f of an inch thick , and placed 5 feet apart , at an angle of 45 ' with the decks .
They extend from about 5 feet from the keelson on both sides of the ship up to the top sides\#151 ; the after riders inclined towards the bow , the foremost towards the stern , the two sets meeting and overlapping amidships .
These riders , therefore , being separated are independent magnets , except at the point of meeting just mentioned .
| The 'Newcastle ' was built at Deptford , head S. 73 ' W. ( magnetic ) , and is a vessel of 3035 tons and 600 horse-power .
The ' Undaunted ' was built at Chatham , head S. 43 ' E. ( magnetic ) , and is a vessel of 3039 tons and 600 horse-power .
Assuming the dip at the time of building to be 68 ' , the after riders of both ships ( near which the compasses are placed ) were not far removed from the direction of the Earth 's Total Eorce , and would therefore become strongly magnetized , especially those in the ' Undaunted .
' [ A glance at the coefficient C of the standard compasses given in the Table shows at once which ship was built in the easterly and which in the westerly direction ; and , further , it is highly probable that in the 'Newcastle ' the coefficient B would have been more nearly in accordance with the results of direction of the ship in building , but for the masses of iron introduced in equipment , such as engines and boilers , armament , great funnel , \amp ; c. In fact , as the compass is only 62 feet from the stem , there is a large excess of iron before that position compared with that abaft .
[ We may reasonably assume the same of the B in the ' Undaunted ' before her iron masts were stepped .
584 Staff-Commander E. W. Creak on the [ June 17 It is now time to say something about these iron masts .
The bow sprit and foremast are so far removed from the compasses that theii effect may be regarded as zero .
The mainmast also being at a distant* of 62 feet from the standard compass , its red and blue poles mus neutralize one another .
At the steering-compasses a slight repulsioi towards the stern may exist , but sufficiently small to be neglected .
When , however , we consider the position of the mizzenmast , at h distance of only 8 feet 6 inches from all compasses , we shall find that it has produced deviations of very decided amount and marked character and therefore our attention may be confined to that mast alone .
This mizzenmast , which is 82 feet in length and 24 inches in diameter , was built at Chatham of the " best-best " iron , half an inch thick , the plates overlapping making it 1 inch thick at its thickest parts , and for the purposes of this discussion may be considered a hollow cylinder .
The effects of iron in that form have been already treated on mathematically by the late Mr. Archibald Smith , E.R.S. , in the Phil. Trans. Roy .
Soc. part i. 1865 , pp. 317 , 318 .
Whilst building , the mast lay in a horizontal position , the direction N. 43 ' W. and S. 43 ' E. , heel towards the northward , which was a favourable position for that end of the mast to receive a permanent quantity of red magnetism as the riveting was proceeding .
When the mast was stepped in its nearly vertical position and subjected to the tremor caused by the rapid revolutions of the screw and engines , red magnetism would become more and more developed .
To test to what extent this was accomplished the following experiments were made .
At 15 feet from the heel on the upper deck , and at 12 inches from the mast , a small compass was carried round , the blue pole of which pointed invariably to the mast .
On the poop , at 22| feet from the heel and 12 inches from the mast , the blue pole of the compass was attracted three points .
At 9| feet above the poop , and approaching the centre of the mast , there was no attraction ; but the neutral zone was very limited in extent , as the blue magnetism began to make itself felt a few inches further up .
This description of the mizzenmast shows that at 8 feet 6 inches from all compasses there exists a vertical , hollow , cylindrical magnet , the effects of which are clearly demonstrated by the following coefficients ( p. 585 ) .
According to the custom of Her Majesty 's navy the ships were swung when ready for sea , to ascertain the deviations of the standard and steering-compasses .
The vertical force , however , on board the 'Newcastle ' was not observed , as in wooden ships experience has shown it to be so little disturbed .
To remedy this deficiency I must now invite attention to another wooden frigate , H.M.S. * Challenger .
' When the ' Challenger ' was about to start on her present voyage from Sheerness , an extended series of observations for the horizontal and vertical forces on board was made , in order to prepare for the correction of the magnetic observations now being carried out in her at sea .
1875 .
] Effects of Iron Masts on Compasses .
585 Table of Coefficients computed from Deviation Tables observed at Sheemess .
Name of Ship and Compass .
A. B. C. D. E. Amount .
Force .
Starboard Angle .
X. XO t 0 \#187 ; O f O 1 O t o O \#151 ; O f ^Newcastle , 13 .
X. 74 -0 9 + 76 - 2 16 +0 18 -0 2 n .128 342 q3 T* J s B Challenger , 6 .
XII .
72 -0 1 + 6 28 + 0 16 +0 23 -0 5 .112 2 1-003 .951 -0 7 43 m | [ Undaunted , 29 .
III .
75 -0 14 +15 12 + 2 53 +0 50 -0 2 15\#163 ; .269 10* 1-004 .831 -0 23 T5 .
I e_i hn i f Newcastle , 13 .
X. 74 -0 57 +10 18 + 0 23 +0 9 +0 59 10* .179 2 g P 1 O'H J \#166 ; g S31 Challenger* 6 .
XII .
72 +0 8 + 67 + 0 36 +0 16 -0 8 6* .108 5 1-006 .840 -0 24 QQ k Undaunted , 29 .
III .
75 -3 8 +26 58 +18 18 +0 42 +0 11 33 .555 34 1-005 .724 -0 39 bD f Newcastle , 13 .
X. 74 -1 46 +10 25 -10 2 +0 32 +1 5 14* .251 316 Port eerin Challenger * , 6 .
XII .
72 00 % + 67 + 0 36 +0 16 -0 8 6* .108 5 1-006 .840 -0 24 CD ^Undaunted , 29 .
III .
75 -1 4 +25 52 -13 26 +0 52 -0 41 29 .495 332 1010 .716 -0 41 * The position of this compass is in the centre line of the ship and the same height above d^ck as the steering-compasses ; both of the latter may therefore be compared with it .
Staff-Commander E. W. Creak on the [ June 17 , This vessel was built at " Woolwich , head S. 16 ' " W " .
, and fitted out at Sheemess ; and the coefficients obtained in her at two positions have been introduced to confirm and supplement those of the ' Newcastle , ' especially as she is of the same construction , although smaller , and has wooden masts .
The notation and methods of computation of these coefficients are those given in the Admiralty Manual of the Deviations of the Compass .
The standard compasses are all within 3 inches of 12 feet 6 inches above the upper deck , the steering-compasses 3 feet 9 inches above that deck , and 6 feet apart .
An examination of the values given in the Table shows that about 8 ' have been added to the B of the 'Undaunted 's ' standard , but the C remains practically unaltered .
This is evidently the effect of the red pole of the mast repelling the red pole of the compass towards the bow , and thus conspiring with the other iron of the ship to produce a large + B. Both the mast and compass being in the same fore-and-aft line , the C cannot be altered , and depends for its amount and sign on the diagonal riders before referred to .
There is nothing unusual in the values of A , D , E , except that the 'Undaunted 's ' D ranks among the largest observed in wooden vessels .
The X ( or the ratio of the mean horizontal force on board to that on shore , Earth = 1*0 ) is at all the compasses a fraction above unity .
This probably proceeds from the fact , already recorded , that the iron in these ships is in detached masses instead of its direction passing continuously through the compasses like iron beams , which invariably reduce X below unity .
The n ( or the ratio of the mean vertical force on board to that on shore , Earth =1*0 ) in the ' Challenger ' shows how the red poles of the diagonal riders act in producing an upward force ; but had the riders been joined at the keelson , it is almost certain that the [ x would have been nearer unity at the expense of X\#151 ; a more desirable result , for this reason : experience has shown that X may be reduced moderately below unity with no appreciable effect on the working of the compasses , whereas / u , upon which the heeling-error so mnch depends , should in wooden ships be as near unity as possible , heeling-error being troublesome to all navigators , and an insidious source of danger to the inexperienced .
In the ' Undaunted ' the fi at all compasses is evidently much reduced by the vertical component of the force produced by the red pole of the iron mast , which pole is very strong at a distance of 16 feet , and at an angle of 35 ' from the vertical line passing through the standard compass .
The coefficient or heeling-error , which in these ships is to leeward , and practically dependent alone upon the value of n ( X being so near unity and D so small ) , of course becomes greater in the 'Undaunted ' than in the two other ships .
So far all the coefficients at the standard compasses , and X , and \ at all compasses , have been examined ; there remain therefore the A , B , 1875 .
] Effects of Iron Masts on Compasses .
587 C , D , E of the steering-compasses to be considered .
Eor this purpose there is sufficient evidence in the two sister ships , which are strictly comparable .
The compasses are necessarily placed out of the central line of the ships , and diagonally to the mast under discussion ; therefore , as shown by the figures in the Table , a transverse component is introduced .
In effect the iron mast has increased the B of the ' Undaunted 's ' steering-compasses by about 16 ' .
To the +C of her starboard-steering-compass about 11 ' have been added , and at the port steering a large \#151 ; C of 13 shows the transverse component of the mast 's force more strongly than at the starboard ; but the 2| ' in excess are probably due to some other cause not accounted for by the observations made .
I. The A for these compasses is large in both ships ; this does not , however , appear to proceed from magnetic causes , but rather from mechanical 6rror in placing the binacles .
D and E show the results usual in wooden ships , except the D in the 'Undaunted , ' which is slightly increased .
Having thus , I think , defined the effects of the iron mizzenmast of the P Undaunted ' on her compasses , it remains now to show what was the most desirable way of meeting them , and what was actually done in that direction .
The most certain cure of the evil would have been to remove all the compasses further away from the mast , as far as magnetic reasons are concerned ; but this would have entailed serious alterations in the arrangements of the ship which the occasion by no means warranted .
The standard compass might have been raised to a level with the neutral zone of the mast , but this at the expense of increasing vibration in the card from greater length of pedestal .
The steering-compasses being in the most suitable position for the use of the helmsman , and there being the standard compass as a means of comparison and obtaining the correct course , no change of position was necessary .
The three compasses were therefore corrected by magnets , the semicircular deviation being reduced to the same amount as in the ' Newcastle .
' It was not thought desirable to correct the whole of the semicircular deviation , as the mast , when the ship should make large changes of latitude , would probably add to the changing part of that deviation observed in this class of ships .
Conclusions .
The effects of iron masts are these:\#151 ; 1 .
They produce semicircular deviation , and the objectionable addition to that deviation known as heeling-error .
2 .
That these effects need not always be avoided , as in certain cases they may be made useful in experienced hands ; for example , the principal mast in this discussion ( as shown in the accompanying sketch , p. 588 ) might , in an iron ship built head north , be used to correct the \#151 ; B of 588 Effects of Iron Masts on Compasses .
[ June 17 the standard compass , and oppose the downward pull of the ship 's vertical force .
3 .
That the quadrantal deviation is slightly increased , and the mean directive force remains undisturbed .
4 .
Lastly , it is suggested that , as the magnetic condition of a mast may be easily ascertained by carrying a compass round it at stated distances and parts , the mast may be utilized or avoided as convenient A similar examination of the mast in different latitudes would enable an observer to eliminate the effects of transient induced magnetism from the subpermanent .
The amount of deviation proceeding from these causes is known for several classes of ships j but what part iron masts supply is yet a subject for inquiry .

