448 Lord Rayleigh .
On [ Mai .
27 VIII- The accessory ossicles developed in its vicinity , which are six .
One , a detached portion of the lachrymal itself , with a second ossific centre ( ossiculum hamuli ) ; one , a detached portion of the os planum behind it ( ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale superius ) ; two which are detached nodules connected with the maxilla ( ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale inferius and ossiculum canalis naso-lachrymale ) .
one , which belongs to the system of the jugal bone ( ossiculum infra-orbitale ) ; and one , a detachment of the nasal process of the maxilla ( ossiculum maxillo-frontale ) .
To this last-named the sutura notha is always related .
IX .
The history of the development of the human lachrymal from its first appearance in the eighth week , and the changes in position and slope shown by it .
X. The racial varieties shown by this bone , and the system of interlachrymal indexes whereby the degree of downward divergence and orbital splay of the bone can be measured .
XI .
Comparative anatomy and morphology of the bone .
Those points have been briefly referred to which help to interpret the human conditions .
II .
" On the Electro-Chemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1884 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) The investigations upon this subject which have been carried on by Mrs. Sidgwick and myself during the last year and a half , though not yet quite finished , are so far advanced that no doubt remains as to the general character of the results ; and as these results have application in the daily work of practical electricians , it is thought desirable to communicate them without further delay .
The currents are measured by balancing the attraction and repulsion of coaxal coils against known weights , as described before the British Association in 1882 , a method which has fully answered the favourable expectations then expressed .
To what was said on that occasion it will be sufficient for the present to add that the readings are taken by reversal of the current in the fixed coils , and the difference of weights thus found ( about 1 gram ) represents the double force of attraction , free from errors depending upon the connections of the suspended coil , and other sources of disturbance .
The difficulties which have been experienced , and which have been the cause of so much delay , have related entirely to the behaviour of the silver voltameters , of which never less than two , and sometimes 1884 .
] Electro-chemical Equivalent of Silver , fyc .
449 as many as five , have been included in the circuit of the measured current .
In order to render the deposit more compact , and thus to diminish the danger of loss in the subsequent manipulations , acetate of silver was added in the earlier experiments to the standard solution of nitrate .
Experience , however , has shown that the principal risk is not in the loss of metal , but in the obstinate retention of salt within the fine pores of the deposit , leading to an over-estimate of the amount .
When the texture is very compact this danger increases , and deposits from a solution containing acetate are often decidedly too heavy , even after the most careful and protracted washings .
On heating to low redness a portion , at any rate , of the retained salt is decomposed , N03 is driven off , and a loss of weight ensues .
With pure nitrate , to which we finally recurred , the risk is much less .
The actual weights of deposited silver were usually from 2 to 3 grms. , and , so far as the mere weighings are concerned , should have been correct to rDiscrepancies three or four times as great as this are , however , actually met with , whether due to retention of salt or to loss of metal it is difficult to say .
The final number , expressing in C.G-.S .
measure the electro-chemical equivalent of silver , is a little lower than that ( T119xl0-3 ) given on a previous occasion ( " Cambridge Proceedings " for November 26 , 1883 ) .
It approximates closely to 1*118 X10 " 3 , and is thus in precise agreement with the number announced within the last few weeks by Kohlrausch , viz. , 1*1183 X10-3 .
Its substantial correctness can therefore hardly be doubted , more especially as it does not differ very much from the number ( 1*124 ) obtained by Mascart .
In terms of practical units , we may say that the ampere current deposits per hour 4*025 grms. of silver .
When we are provided with means for the absolute measurement of currents , the determination of electromotive force is a very simple matter if we assume a knowledge of absolute resistance .
A galvanic cell is balanced against the known difference of potentials generated by a known current in traversing a known resistance .
The difficulty relates entirely to the preparation and definition of the standard cells .
A considerable number of Clark cells have been set up and tested at intervals during the last six months , and their behaviour has been satisfactory , the extreme range ( after the first ten days ) not much exceeding xoVo* A modified form of cell in which the solid zinc is replaced by an amalgam , is at present under trial .
In Mr. Latimer Clark 's own determination the B.A. unit is assumed to be correct , and the E.M.P. of the cell at 15 ' C. was found to be 1*457 volt .
On the same assumption , we obtain the not greatly differing value 1*453 volt .
If we take the true value of the B.A. unit as *9867 ohm , 1*453 will be replaced by 1*434 .
Experiments are also in progress to determine in absolute measure 450 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
Natural and [ Mar. 2 ?
the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in bisulphide of carbon under the action of magnetic force .
Of the results obtained by Gordon and Becquerel , differing by about 9 per cent. , our preliminary measurements tend rather to confirm the former .
III .
" On the Natural and Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova .
" By J. Cossar Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by The President .
Received March 19 , 1884 .
It is well known that for centuries herring have been in the habit of congregating on inshore banks around the coast of Britain in order to deposit their spawn .
In 1862 the Royal Commission ( of which Professor Huxley was a member ) appointed to report on the trawling for herrings on the coast of Scotland , arrived at the conclusion that herring visit our shores for this purpose twice a year , some shoals arriving during the autumn , while others make their appearance during the winter .
The herring which spawn during the autumn ( and which at another time I shall endeavour to show differ from the winter herring ) chiefly frequent banks on the east coast , while the herring which spawn during winter are most abundant on the west coast .
Of the west coast spawning-grounds , the Ballantrae Bank , which lies off the coast of Ayrshire , is one of the most important and is certainly the most famous .
To this bank herring are known to have resorted for at least 200 years , always bringing in their train numerous codfish , whiting , and sometimes shoals of dogfish , porpoises , and dolphins , and while on the bank they have afforded an abundant harvest to the fishermen of the surrounding districts , and to the flocks of gannets and gulls which people Ailsa Craig .
The herring fishery being one of the most important industries in Scotland ( the autumn fishery engaging nearly half-a-million people , and being worth in good years about 2,500,000Z .
sterling ) , there has been since 1809 a Board specially charged with guarding its interests .
This Board ( formerly known as the Board of Fisheries , but since 1882 as the Fishery Board for Scotland ) in 1862\#151 ; 63 endeavoured , under the direction of Professor Allman ( then a member of the Board ) , to gain some information as to the habits of the herring , and more especially as to the nature of the spawn and the spawning grounds .
Since 1863 little has been done in this country by way of continuing these experiments until last autumn , when the new Fishery Board , recognising the importance of the investigations so ably initiated by Professor Allman , appointed a Committee of its

