Some Account of the Nests of the Java Swallow , and of the Glands that secrete the Mucus of which they are composed .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 26 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 332 .
] After noticing the various opinions which have been entertained concerning the materials of which the nests of the Java Swallow are composed , Sir Everard proceeds to examine the glandular structure of its oesophagus and stomach , as also the chemical characters of the substance forming the nest .
He was chiefly led to this inquiry by the suggestion of Mr. Raffles , who was of opinion that the matter of the nest was brought up from the bird 's stomach , and that the violence of the effort was occasionally such as to be accompanied with blood , the stain of which is sometimes seen on the nests .
On examining the gastric glands of the Java swallow with a common magnifying glass , their orifices obviously differed from those of other birds , and of the common migrating swallow of England .
The Java swallow is a constant inhabitant of the caverns of that island , and about twice the size of the common swallow .
It builds two nests ; one oblong and narrow for the male , the other wide and deep for the female and her eggs .
The peculiarity of structure in the gastric glands consists in a membranous tube surrounding each of their ducts , which , after projecting into the gullet , splits into separate portions , like the petals of a flower .
From the surface of these tubes the peculiar mucus for the formation of the nest is secreted .
Thus , says the author , the opinion which I have long adopted , " that membranes upon which no glandular structure can be discovered are capable of secreting mucus , " is confirmed .
From the annexed chemical examination of the Javanese swallow 's nest , it appears to possess a close analogy to albumen ; differing from the ordinary properties of that principle in being easily soluble in liquid ammonia , and in the solution of its subcarbonate , and in affording a relatively smaller proportion of ammoniacal products when submitted to destructive distillation .
This paper is accompanied by a drawing , exhibiting magnified representations of the gastric glands in the blackbird , and in the common and Java swallow ; thus rendering the differences of structure , so as to preclude the necessity of any extensive details .

