310 Mr. 0 .
Thomas .
---------------[Apr .
28s Whether it be heated rain-water , or heated sea-water containing silica , the principle of the transmutation is the same .
These siliceous beds are found , not only in the marine Silurian ( and possibly older ) beds of tropical Australia , in which sponges are comparatively rare , and in the Carboniferous rocks , but also in a fresh-water deposit which caps a hill south of Mount Elder on the Ord River , and about 500 feet above the level of the country , showing that it must at one time have been the bed of a very extensive lake The upper beds are white limestone merging upwards as usual into flint , calcedony , and green agates .
These are 50 feet thick , and all abound in a fossil , Planorbis , as determined by Professor McCoy , of Melbourne University , who named it as a new species , Planorbis Hardmani .
His decision was confirmed by R. Etheridge , Junr .
, and Dr. Woodward , and the specimens are at present in the Museum at South Kensington .
This rock is simply one mass of Planorbis shells all highly silicified .
I can hardly conceive that it was formed from sponge spicules especially as according to Ernst Haeckel ( 'History of Creation , ' p. 139 ) the main class of the Sponges lives in the sea , with the single exception of the green fresh-water Sponge ( ) .
It is not probable then that these organisms would have existed in these regions in sufficient numbers to form a rock 50 feet thick and over two miles square at present .
We have therefore examples at both ends of the scale in this one country showing how improbable is the Sponge theory of chert .
III .
" On the Homologies and Succession of the Teeth in the Dasyuridse , with an Attempt to trace the History of the Evolution of Mammalian Teeth in general .
" By Oldfield Thomas , British Museum ( Natural History ) .
Communicated by Dr. Albert Gunther , F.R.S. Received April 4 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The true homologies of the different teeth in the Marsupialia , and especially in the Dasyuridce , have long been in a state of confusion , largely owing to their perplexing superficial resemblances to the teeth of the Carnivora and other Placentals , and to the incorrect homologies thereon founded .
This confusion has been chiefly in regard to the premolars , of which some members of the family have two , others three , while generalised Placentals have four , and it is therefore necessary to prove which teeth have been successively lost in order to find out the correct homologies of the remainder .
1887 .
] On the Teeth of the Dasyuridce .
Firstly , as to which of the three premolars of such genera as Thylacinus and Phascobgale have been lost in and philus , each with only two\#151 ; a study of the different members of the genus Phascologale shows that , judging by the great variability in size of the last premolar or pm.4 of the typical mammalian dentition , * which is sometimes even altogether aborted , it is this tooth that is the one lost in Dasyurus and Sarcophilus , the total loss of the changing tooth naturally accounting for the non-discovery of a tooth-change in these genera .
Next , since the original number of premolars was clearly four in the Marsupials as well as in the Placentals , it was necessary to find out which of these had disappeared in the ordinary three-toothed genera of the Polyprotodonts , and this has been able to be done by the fortunate discovery of a specimen of Phascologale in which there are four premolars on one side , the additional tooth being inserted between the ordinary first and second premolars .
The missing premolar is therefore pm.3 , as shown both by this instance and by the relative positions of the teeth in other Polyprotodonts , the resulting premolar formula of Phascologale and being P.M. 1.0 .
3.4 1.0 .
3.4 .0.3.0 .0.3.0T The milk dentition in several of the Dasyuridce is then described , among others that of the Purbeck Mesozoic Marsupial Triacanthodon serrula ( Owen ) , which is proved to have , as had been suggested by Professors Owen and Flower , a milk dentition identical with that of the modern Marsupials .
An attempt is then made to trace out the history of the evolution of mammalian teeth in general , and as a preliminary it is insisted ( 1 ) that the rudimentary tooth-change of the Marsupials is not a remnant of a fuller one , but a low and early stage in the development of complete dipbyodontism , a stage out of which the Eutheria have long ago passed ; and ( 2 ) that , as maintained by Professor Flower , the milk teeth are the superadded and not the primary set .
It is then suggested that the process by which a milk tooth was developed consisted of two stages , firstly , a preliminary retardation of the permanent tooth , and secondly , of the development of a temporary tooth in the gap in the tooth-row caused thereby ; the retardation in the first case being useful for packing purposes in a large-toothed and of Dasyurus and P.M. * Although the homology of this tooth with the pm.4 of Placentals , first made out by Professor Flower , has been called in question , there can be no doubt that it is entirely correct .
t This method of writing dental formulae is recommended as showing not only the total number , but the homologies of the teeth , each of which has its own number in the series .
312 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Apr. gg animal , while in a small-toothed form the same retardation , if present by inheritance , would cause a more or less disadvantageous gap best filled by the assumption of a milk tooth .
The first stage , or stage of retardation , appears to be still represented in the anterior upper incisors of many Polyprotodont Marsupials* and it is therefore believed that these teeth now represent the stage at which the ancestors of the Marsupials and Eutheria diverged from one another , a stage at which the further development of milk incisors was just commencing .
Following out this idea , it is shown how easily the transition from the Metatherian to the Eutherian stage of tooth-change may have taken place , a transition by the help of which a complete series of diagrams can be drawn up , following the history of each individual tooth , from the dentition of the earliest Mammals , homodont and monophyodont , as no doubt the unmodified Prototheria were , down to the varied forms of dentition , heterodont and diphyodont , existing at the present day .
All the orders of Mammalia fall easily enough into their places in the main line of this scheme with one exception , namely , the Edentata , in whose case the evidence all tends to prove the correctness of Professor Parker 's suggestion as to their nearly direct derivation from the Prototheria , a suggestion that the characters of their teeth most fully support .
On the same principles , therefore , as the main Proto-meta-eutherian line of tooth development is drawn up , a side branch , for which the name " Paratherian " is suggested , is made for the Edentates .
Within that branch very little heterodontism has ever been developed , but otherwise the changes , except in the case of the as yet inexplicable dentition of OTycteropus have been of the same nature as those in the main line , the superaddition of a milk set of teeth in latusia being , as in the Meta- and Eu-theria , the last and most highly specialised development .
IV .
" Note on Protection in Anthrax .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Demonstrator of Physiology , Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by E. Klein , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 16 , 1887 .
Hitherto in the few cases in which protection against zymotic disease has been found possible , it has been effected by the communication to the animal of a modified form of the disease against which protection is sought .
I have succeeded in protecting rabbits from anthrax by an altogether different process , and although this is scarcely , at present , of practical utility , it may perhaps be found to be of some interest as

