]\gt ; 1871 .
] Law in Chemical Dynamics .
is shown in the and 6th columns .
The law then breaks down , and after about 7 per cent. the increased action is almost in direct ratio with the increased strength .
The position of the plate in the solution was found to make no difference to law .
Similal series of experiments were made with zinc and chloride of copper , zinc and sulphate of copper , zinc and nitrate of lead , iron and sulphate of copper , and other combinations ; and in every instance where the solution was weak and the action simple , the law of three times the change t1vice the strength was found to hold good .
It was proved that the breaking down of the law at about per cent. of salt in solution was irrespective of the quantity of the liquid , or of the time for which the plate was exposed .
With 72 .
centims. of a per cent. solution of nitrate of silver the rate of action remained sensibly the same for as long as twenty-five minutes , uotwithstanding the constant deposition of silver .
This apparently paradoxical esult is due to fresh relays of the original solution being brought up to the plate by the currents produced , and that period of time before any of the products of decomposition are brought back in their circuit .
When it was perceived that within easily ascertaiuable limits the chemical action is the same for similar consecutive ) eriods operiments were made far weaker solutions .
It was only necessary to lengthen the time of exposure .
It was thus found that the law of three times the chemical action for twice the of holds good througl ] at least eleven terms of the powers of 2 ; in fact , from solution that oould dissolve one gramme of copper during the hour , to a solution that dissolved only gramme , a million times less .
The manner in which the silver is deposited on a copper plate was examined , and the currents produced were studied .
At first a light blue reut is perceived flowing upwards from the surface of the plate , presently a deep current pours , and these two in opposite directio1ls continue to form simultaneously .
A similal phenomenon was observed in every case where a metallic salt attacked a ] ) late of anotner metal .
The downward current found to ) a bolution of most pure nitrate of copper , containing about three times as as the original silver solution , the upwnrd current a diluted solution of mixed nitrates .
Moreover the heavy current took.itslisc-- in gledADDENDUM .
In page 498 , line 2 from after " " action insert : \mdash ; ' The ]nathcllatical expression of this law is being the chemical ction .
the constant , and the proportionate quantity of salt

