Some Additions to the Croonian Lecture , on the Changes the Blood undergoes in the Act of Coagulation .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read March 5 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 185 .
] The object of this paper is to furnish a more correct measurement of the globules of the blood than that formerly offered , and to establish , by additional facts , the author 's opinion respecting the formation of tubes during the coagulation of the blood .
The diameter of a globule of blood , as ascertained by Mr. Bauer , was considered as - , wl- , th of an inch ; whereas it appeared , from the more correct investigations of Capt. Kater , to be only -s -A , th .
To show that the extraction of air was the cause of the tubular structure observed in coagulated blood , the author placed a portion of recently drawn blood under the receiver of an air-pump ; and when it had coagulated , the air having been thus previously removed , no tubular appearance was manifested .
In a portion of the same blood , coagulated previous to the exhaustion of the air , the tubuli were beautifully distinct .
The author succeeded in injecting these tubuli by placing some fine size injection upon a piece of coagulum , and putting it under the receiver of the air-pump : during exhaustion the air escaped , and on its readmission into the receiver the injection was forced into the tubular structure .
Sir Everard next proves that coagula of blood , formed in the abdomen , may be injected from the contiguous vessels ; and on microscopic examination it is shown , that the small arteries of the peritoneum enter the tubuli of the coagulum , and that the latter form vessels larger than the former ; and that there are lateral points of communication between the tubuli and arteries .
Sir Everard next relates some experiments upon pus similar to those upon the blood , a fact , he observes , of much importance in practical surgery ; for knowing that inspissated pus becomes vascular similar to coagulated blood , we have arrived at the principle on which granulations are formed , and whence they observe their inherent power of contraction .
' We can also account for the advantage of compressing the surface of sores ; since by that means , continues the author , all superfluous pus is removed , leaving only enough for inspissation , in which state it

