]\gt ; On the -active .
By the Hon. B. J. sTIiuTT , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.RS .
Received February 28 , \mdash ; Read March 2 , 1905 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE Sec. 1 .
Introduction 88 Sec. 2 .
Methods of Analysis 89 Sec. 3 .
Experimental BeHults 94 Sec. 4 .
Connection between Radium and Uranium 94 Sec. 5 .
The Presence of Thorium 96 Sec. 6 .
The Presence of Helium .
Estimate of the A ge of the Minerals 9 Sec. 7 .
horium Emanatiug Power 99 Sec. 8 .
Conclusion 100 Sec. l.\mdash ; Introduction .
As Professor Rutherford and Mr. Soddy have pointed out , the study of -active minerals is one of the most promising methods of attacking the .
problem of the connection between the radio-active elements , and the of the ultimate inactive products of their change .
For in these substances we have , as it were , a laboratory in which the changes have been in progress for immense periods ; there is , therefore , a fair chance of the ultimate products in measurable quantity .
In many cases the life of a product is smalI in comparison with the age of the mineral .
We may then expect to find it present in different in a quantity proportional to the amount of its parent .
In this way the connection can be made out .
Finally , even when the changes are too slow for equilibrium to have been , the constant association of two substances may , none the less , give a valuable clue to their relative position in the series of radio-active products .
The sent paper is a contribution to this subject .
It deals with the amount of uranium , radium , thorium , and helium in the minerals .
the Minerals .
Sec. 2.\mdash ; Mefhods of sis .
The uranium in minerals was determined by the ordinary methods of chemical analysis .
The majority of the analyses were made for me by Mr. Kitto , of 31 , St. Swithin 's Lane , E.C. Mr. H. J. H. Fenton , F.R.S. , also most kindly helped me with this part of the work .
The radium was determined by means of its emanation .
A weighed portion of the mineral was decomposed , usually by fusion with borax to clear lass .
The residue was dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , in a small flask .
The solution was boiled under a condenser for an hour , to thoroughly expel all radium emanation .
The flask ( in the fignre ) was then attached airto the apparatus shown ; is an inverted condenser , communicating through the stopcock , , with the bulb , .
The latter , in its turn , communicates through a stop-cock , , with a mercury pump , arranged for the collection of The flask was allowed to stand for a day ; the quantity of emanation generated in that time measures the amount of radium present .
In order collect this emanation , the bulb , previously exhausted , and shut off from the pump , was placed in communication with the condenser , , and the flask , .
The air previously and partially flowed into .
In this the pressure in was educed , and the liquid in it could be boiled without fear of excessive pressure inside .
The emanation expelled by boihng mixed with the air in and The liquid eyaporated from condensed in and ran After the boiling had continued for an hour , the emanation was completely expelled .
Test experiments have proved this , The flask , was then rapidly cooled with cold water ; when cold , the air mixed with emanation was completely extracted by the pump , and collected in a tube over mercury .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , To measure the amount of emanation , this air was introduced into a previously exhausted gold-leaf electroscope .
* The volume of the electroscope exceeded that of the air emanation .
When the latter had been introduced , ordinary air was admitted to pressure .
The electroscope was allowed to stand for three hours , in order to let the active deposit attain its equilibrium value .
The rate of leak was then taken , the same 20 divisions of the microscope scale being always employed .
correction was applied for the rate of leak of the electroscope , when filled with air only .
I shall not give the detailed data for all the experiments , but only the final result .
One case , however , may be iven in detail , for the sake of example .
Bschynite , Ural Mountains\mdash ; Quantity taken . .
ramme .
Leak due to emanation collected in 24 hours\mdash ; 20 .
in Mean . . .
3 Thus rate of leak .
per hour .
With air , the rate of leak was 7 .
per hour .
Subtracting this , corrected rate per hour or , per gramlne of the mineral , 660 per hour .
A second determination , on about twice the quantity , gave 647 per hour .
On collecting a day 's emanation a second time from the same portion of the mineral , the value is recovered with a discrepancy of not more than 4 per cent. The method described ives only a relative measure of the amount of radium present .
To reduce it to absolute measure , the following method was employed .
Ten milligrammes of radium bromide , sold as pure , was employed as the ultimate standard of reference .
This was placed near an electroscope , a plate of lead cm .
thick being interposed .
The rate of leak due to the radium was 924 scale divisions per hour , produced , of course , by the rays .
The tube of pure radium bromide was now removed , and a tube containing grammes of a much less concentrated preparation was substituted .
This produced a rate of leak of In doing this , the methods of gas manipulation developed by Sir W. Ramsay and Dr. Travers were employed .
1905 .
] On the -active only scale divisions per hour .
Since the rays concerned in this experiment were able to penetrate a thick leaden block , we may their absorption in the radio-active material itself , and in the tJlass tnbe containing it .
Thus the rate of leak becomes a measure of the total amount of radium bromide present .
The amount of radium bromide present in 1 granlme of the weaker reparation is gramme .
Having determined the value of the weaker preparation in this way , 461uilligrammes of it were weighed out , and dissolved in water .
The solution was made up to 100 , and 5 .
( milligrammes ) withdrawn with a pipette .
This .
of solution was placed in a flask , and the rate of leak , due to one day 's accumulation of its emanation , was measured , as in the case of the decomposed minerals .
The corrected value was 644 scale divisions per hour .
Thns 1 scale division } ) hour corresponds to radium bromide .
lt may , perhaps , seem at first sight to have been superfluous to the eparation , instead of working straight from the pure one , diluting it to the necessary extent .
Th hing out of pure radium salts is , however , an undesirable } ) !
ration , even if a suitable balance for such work had been at hand , which it was not .
For there is always the risk of loss of the valuable salt , with the attendant of makin the laboratory unfit for experiments in radio-activity .
With the method adopted , it was ot necessary to remove the salt from the her1netically Qealed vessel which contained it .
The reduction of the radium determinations to absolute measure is subject to the assumption that the standard specimen of radium bromide contained 10 milligl.ammes of the pure material .
This I cannot vouch for personally , but it is not likely to be far from the truth .
The relative measurements of the quantity of radium are not subject to this source of umcertainty , they alone are principally concerned in this investigation .
In stating the results , I shall express them as of ladium bromide in the mineral .
This mode of expression is , of course , a fiction in on .
sense , as there is probably no bromine in the mineral .
But the fiction is convenient , as the actual staudard of comparison is bromide , and all that is meant is that the of radium is what would be contained in that percentage of bromide .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , Determination of Thorium .
The amount of thorium in a mineral can , of course , be determined by the orthodox methods of chemical analysis .
The determination is not , however , an easy one , and cases are on record where even experienced analysts have been ether mistaken as to the proportion present .
For this reason , and also to economise time , I have determined thorium in the mineral by means of the thoriu1o emanation .
A weighed portion of the mineral was brought into solution .
The solution was placed in a long glass tube slightly inclined to the horizontal .
Air could be drawn by means of a filter pump through the tube , and carried the thorium emanation with it , into a well insulated testing vessel , connected with an electroscope .
The solution was , in each case , made up to a standard volume , and the air current was quite constant , since the pump was supplied from a shallow cistern overhead , giving a constant water pressure .
Thus the circumstances under which the bubbling took place were in each case the same .
It was found that the rate of collapse of the was proportional to the amount of present in the solution .
The majority of the minerals contained radium as well as thorium .
It is necessary to inquire , therefore , whether any part of the effect attributed to thorium emanation might have been really due to radium ema1lation .
When the bubbling commenced , after the solution had stood for some time , there was a perceptible effect due to accumulated radium emanation , but this soon passed off .
The for thorixun were not taken until the bubbling had continued enough to wash out allaccumulated radium emanation , so that the rate of leak no longer diminished .
One hour amply sufficed for this .
The radium emanation was .
fast enough to produce a measurable effect , after the accumulation had been got rid of .
This was conclusively shown by the behaviour of minerals like Joachimsthal pitchblende , contai11ing much radium and no thorium .
To reduce the thorium determinations to absolute measure , it is necessary to make use of a preparation of known thoria percentage .
I did not find commercial thorium nitrate of sufficient purity for the purpose , and have therefore employed the mineral from Ceylon , called thorianite .
Concordant analyses of this , made at the Imperial Institute , and.in Sir William Ramsay 's , show that it contains about 77 per cent. of thoria .
Different samples do not vary much amongst themselves .
gramme of this mineral gave a rate of leak of 360 scale divisions per * Corrected , of course , for its natural rate of collapse .
1905 .
] On thoe Iinerals .
hour .
Corrected for the normal leak of the electroscope this becomes 346 .
Thus 1 scale division per hour represents , or gramme of thorium oxide .
The following example may be quoted , to illustrate the determination of thoria by this method .
of rrammes of samarskite from North Carolina was brought into solution Air bubbled it ooave a rate of leak of , or corrected , Thus the rate of leak per gramme is , or , and the thoria pel.centage is , or 146 .
ination of For this determination the method described by Dr. Travers*was employed .
It consists in placing a portion of the powdered mineral in a glass tube , with strong sulphuric acid , the powder being , however , initially supported out of reach of the latter .
The tube is exhausted and sealed .
It is then inverted and shaken , so that the acid is brought into contact with the powder .
The tube is then heated in an air bath to 20 C. , until the mineral is seen to be completely decomposed .
This , in some cases , occurs very quickly .
In others , it takes as long as a week .
The ases are extracted by means of a , the tip of the sealed tube being broken inside an indiarubber connection .
The helium thus extracted is almost invariably with other ases .
To remove them it is to mix with oxygen and spark the mixture over caustic soda .
This was done in a gas burette with platinnm wires settled in .
When , on prolonged sparking , no further contraction could be detected , the excess of oxygen was removed by , the gas up into a tube with a little melted phosphorus floating on the top of the mercury .
The residue was measured as helium .
In those cases where it mounted to 1/ 5 of a .
or more , this was done in -measuring tube of very small diameter , graduated in millimetres , and calibrated .
Smaller quantities were measured in the capillary syphon of the gas 'ourette .
The cross section of this capillary was known , so that the length of the piston of gas ( confined by mercury ) determined the volume ; in taking the measurement the levels were arranged so that the pressure was atmospheric .
It would , no doubt , have added to the completeness of the investigation if .
the gas had been spectroscopically examined in each case , to make sure that it did really consist of helium and nothing else .
Some uncertainty attaches to those cases where the quantity of residual less than 1/ 10 of a * Study of Gases .
' Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , per gramme , and I am not able to feel any confidence in the numbers given for quantities smaller than this , except as superior limits to the quantity of helium which can be present .
It would not be difficult to make certain of quantities much smaller than this , by starting with a sufficiently large quantity of the mineral .
But such determinations do not , as will be seen in the at present promise information of special value .
The present experiments may be relied on as determining how much helium is present in the minerals in those cases where the quantity of gas exceeds 1/ 10 .
per gramme .
In some experiments the helium was sparked again with oxygen and measured a second time .
But no perceptible alteration of volume occurred .
This proved the completeness of the purification .
of Total Activity .
In addition to the determinations already mentioned , the activities of the powdered minerals were compared in the ordinary way , by means of the electroscope , with that of uranium oxide .
Such observations do not admit of any very simple , particularly not in the case of thorium minerals , where the leak observed depends much more on the emanating power than on the percentage of thorium present .
Nevertheless it must not be forgotten that observations of this kind led to the discovery of radium , and it would be a mistake to despise them .
Sec. erimcntal Results .
Having explained the methods adopted for determining the various constituents , the results may now be tabulated ( see p. 95 ) .
Sec. mection bRadium .
While this investigation was in progress , Mr. B. Boltwood published some measurements , from which he concluded that the amount of radium in a mineral was approximately proportional to the uranium .
* The most interesting conclusion of the present investigation was in this way anticipated .
Additional confirmation of a conclusion so important is not , however , superfluous , and the numbers given above amply afford it .
The of radium to uranium is in the last column of the table , and varies very little for the different minerals .
The only notable exception is in the pyromorphite previously examined by M. Danne .
Mr. Fenton has very kindly confirmed the conclusion that this contains no trace of uranium .
M. Danme 'Am .
Jour .
Science , ' vol. 18 , p. 97 .
1905 .
] On the Radio active einernls .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , reasonls for thinking that in this case the radium has been introduced from extraneous sources by infiltrating water .
It may be that the slight discrepancies in the ratios found for the other minerals are referable to similar causes .
As to the reality of these discrepancies I cannot vouch personally , not having made the uranium determinations myself .
The investigation has brought out the presence of uranium in several minerals\mdash ; monazite and kolm , for instance , which were not previously known to contain it.* One of the monazites ( from Virginia , U.S.A. ) does not appear to contain as much uranium as it should .
There should be per cent. ; whereas the actual quantity , as roughly estimated by Mr. Fenton , was per cent. It is , however , difficult to even detect such a small quantity of uranium in presence of phosphoric acid , so not much can be laid on the discrepancy .
Sec. 5.\mdash ; The Thorium .
( Amended March 6 .
) Thorium , it be observed , seems to be invariably accompanied by the uranium-radium association .
I have searched in vain for a thorium mineral free from radium , though many more than those mentioned above have been examined .
Uranium-radium minerals free from thonum are easily to be met with .
But never , so far as my experience goes , the converse .
The ratio varies within wide limits ; but still , the fact of the association of these rare substances seems to be suggestive .
Thorium is radio-active ; it is , therefore , presumably changing into something .
Professor Rutherford has estimated the time which half of a given quantity of rium takes to disintegrate at years .
We may , without improbability , assume as a working hypothesis that these minerals are not less than 30 million years old .
In that time , about per cent. of the thorium would have changed , so that the resulting product should have accumulated in weighable quantity .
Helium , as we shall see , is probably a product .
But it seems unlikely that the greater part of the dibris takes this form , for the theory now most in favour ( though very far from proved ) is that the expelled particles constitute the helium\mdash ; that it is , in fact , a collateral product , not in the main line of descent .
What , then , is the most likely product ?
Uranium seems to fulfil requirements , for it is , as we have seen , invariably present with thorium , and * See , for instance , " " Les Terres Bares by P. Truchot , where many analyses of monazite given , but none include uranium .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 204 , p. 206 .
1905 .
] On the finerals .
is fairly rare , like its assumed parent .
The existence of uranium minerals in which thorium does not occur , presents no difficulty .
For the rate of vration of uranium is so small that , lullike radium , it may well be old enough to have originated in situations very different from those in which we find it .
We cannot expect that the uranium should be proportional to the thorimn , for the minerals are probably not old enough for radio-active equilibrium between these constituents .
The really serious objection to this view is that the atomic weight of thoriuu ] , is commonly taken to be reater than that of uranium .
Professor McLeod has , however , drawn my attention to a paper by BaskerviIl which he finds that thorium contains a constittlent of higher atomic weight ( 256 ) than uranium .
If this result should be confirmed by further ation , the objection will be removed .
The view above explained is not one which I wish at all to press .
It seems , however , to have sufficient experimental support to be worthy of mention .
It is quite possible that one of the ce1ium metals , not uranium , is the next fairly permanent descendant of thorium ; for these metals are almost , if not quite , always found with it The question of this latter association deserves further experimental i1lquiry .
I have not found the analyses ( ltoted in mineralogical works of much use except to which minerals repay investigation .
For , if not made with a view to the particular inquiry , the essential point is very liable to be missed .
The existence of uantities of cerium nletals with thorium might easily be overlooked , for instance , if attention were not concentrated on the question of whether they were present .
Sec. 6.\mdash ; The } ' ' of of Aye of the \mdash ; The principal point in connection with helium out by these determinations is the way in which it is associated with thorium .
In no case is any mineral found to contain more than a trace of helium , unless it contains thorium also .
This is evidence that the greater part of the helium has been produced by thoriun ] .
To the point out more clearly , the minerals are re-arranged in the following table , in order of helium content:\mdash ; Am .
, vol. 26 , p. 922 ; see also " " Beport of International Conlmittee on Atomic Proc. Chem. Janualy .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , It will be noted that although when much helium is found , thorium is found also , he converse does not hold .
For , the second richest thorium mineral , contains very little helium .
This , however , does not appreciably weaken the evidence in favour of the view that thorium produced helium , for the conditions in this mineral may not have been .
favourable to the retention of helium when formed .
Even apart from this consideration , no definite tive relation between helium and thorium or between helium and radium can be expected , for the helium , which is an inactive oduct , will accumulate indefinitely , and will not come to radioactive equilibrium , decaying as fast as it is generated .
Everything , therefore , depends on how long the process has been at work .
It is curious to note how little helium even the richest radium-uranium minerals seem to contain , when they do not contain thorium too .
This suggests that , since the production of helium from radium has been observed experimentally , the same experiment might be practicable with a manageable quantity of thorium .
I have 1905 .
] On the -active ) ierals .
searched in vain for thorium nlineral quite free from radium ; some of the monazites , however , in the above list , contain only very little radiun ] , but much helium .
In fact , the monazite of vest radium content has , as it happens , the most helium of all .
This all goes to the conclusion that thorium prodnces helium .
I have examined the list of helium bearing minerals given by Sir William Ramsay .
* In no as has helium been found in a mineral not known to be radio-active .
If we could assume that helium was produced by radium only , and that amount of radium emained constant , then the amount of helium in a mineral would obviously oive an inferior limit to \mdash ; only a limit , because the helium may not have been all retained .
Take , for instance , the mineral thorianite ; Ramsay and Soddy have estimated that ramme of radium bromide gives milligramme of helium in a year .
One gramme of the mineral gives .
of helium , and contains gramme of radium bromide .
This quantity of radium produces in a yeal gramme .
of helium .
The time reqnired to produce the obseryed amount of helium would be , therefore , years , about 2,000,000,000 years .
Professor Rutherford estimated the time of decay of uranium to half its initial value to be of this order ( years ) , so that there is reason for thinking that the amount of radium , which at any time is proportional to the uranium , can have been in the mean very materially more than what it is now , the last 2,000,000,000 years .
The real weakness of the argument lies in the uncertainty as to whether horium does not produce helium .
As we have seen , the probabilities seem to be strong that it does .
This objection does not apply to the minerals free from thorium ; one of the Cornish pitchblendes , instance , contains gramme of radium bromide and .
of helium per ramme .
The age in this case cannot be less than , or about 20,000,000 years .
In no case of this kind is a much larger limit indicated .
Sec. Power of Mi'nerals .
1 have given above the determinations of thorium made by bubbling air through a solution of the mineral .
It was interesting to determine how far the powdered mineral would serve the purpose , whether , in fact , the minerals were in an emanating condition or not .
'Annales de Chimie , ' 7th Series , vol. 13 , p. 440 . .
Soc. Proc , p. 353 .
Phil. Trans. , vol. 204 , p. 206 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ Feb. 28 , A piece of glass tube , about 10 cm .
long and cm .
internal diameter was loosely packed with the powdered mineral confined between of cotton wool , and air was drawn over it at a constant rate through a vessel as when the solution was used .
The comparative rates of leak were as in the following table .
The thoria ' are given for comparison :\mdash ; Mineral .
Thoriante Orangite . .
Gadolinite . .
Eschynite . .
Cyrtolite Sipilite . .
Monazite Euxenite . .
Monazite Samarskite . .
Eschynite Monazite II . .
Monazite . .
Monazite I. .
Locality emanatingpower , Virginia It will be seen that there very $(reat variations between the power of the solid and the emanating power of the solution .
In some cases a much greater fraction of the emanation generated by the solid can escape , than in others .
Some of the minerals are , in fact , in a de-emanated condition , .
others are not .
The emanating power of the solid cannot be trusted even as a rough quantitative test of the amount of thorium present .
None the less , it forms a very valuable indication of the presence of this element , though of no use to prove its absence .
Granted the apparatus ready for use , it is. .
in many cases to prove the presence of thorium in as many minutes as the chemical tests would require days .
Sec. dusion .
There are two outstanding radio-active substances which are not included in the present investigation , actinium and polonium .
With regard to actinium , I have not attempted anything .
There is no practical way of 1905 .
] On th Radio-active determining this constituent at present ; the actinium emanation old give the best chance , but actinium is so scarce that in most cases there would probably be sufficient traces of thorium to mask its presence .
The chemical separation of these elements is unfortunately by no means easy .
I have made a good many experiments on polonium ; this part of the investigation is incomplete , but it does not seem desirable to defer publication longer , so that the conclusions must be reserved for a communication .
I have not yet succeeded in out a satisfactory method of measuring the amount of polomum in a mineral .
Experiments are , however , in progress to determine the rate of decay of the active matter which deposits from solutions of the several minerals on to a bismuth plate .
It will be necessary to wait little longer for conclusive results , but the measurements hitherto made are not at all favourable to the identity of the bismuth-plate deposits .
from the several minerals .
The results of this paper may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The conclusion that the amount of radium in a mineral is proportional to the , is confirmed .
The inyestigation of this point has brought to hght the existence of uranium in some minerals not previously known t ) contain it , monazite , for instance .
( 2 ) It is shown that thorium minerals invariably contain the uraniumradium combination .
This Qervation is difficult to interpret , but it may possibly indicate that thorium is producing uranium .
( 3 ) Helium never occurs except in very minute quantity unless is present .
Thq helium of minerals , therefore , is probably produced more by thorium than by radium .
( 4 ) Thorium minerals vary much in emanatin power .
Some retainl nearl all their emanation , others off large quantities .
In conclusion , I must express my thanks to several kind friends and correspondents , who have given me samples of minerals , Professor J. W. Mallet , Sir W. Ramsay , the late Mr. W. , and .
Johu Landin .
Mr. H. J. H. Fenton has most kindly helped by some of the minerals for uranium .

