I. " On the existence of an element of Strength in beams subjected to Transverse Strain , arising from the Lateral Action of the fibres or particles on each other , and named by the author the ' Resistance to Flexure .
' " By PETER WILLIAM BARLOW , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1855 .
The author commences by observing , that under the existing theory of beams , which recognizes only two elements of resistance , namely tension and compression , the strength of a beam of cast iron cannot be reconciled with the results of experiments on the direct tensile strength , if the neutral axis is in the centre of the beam .
He then proceeds to describe experiments made on two solid beams of cast iron to determine the position of the neutral axis .
The beams employed were 7 feet long , 6 inches deep and 2 inches thick , on each of which small vertical ribs were cast , 12 inches apart ; nine small holes were drilled opposite to each other in each rib , for the purpose of inserting the pins of a delicate measuring instrument .
The distances of the holes of the centre division of both beams were measured under various strains , and the results show that the extensions and compressions proceed in an arithmetical ratio from the centre to the upper and lower sides of the beam ; and that at any given distance on either side of the centre , the amount of extension is equal to the amount of compression .
The position of the neutral axis being thus conclusively ascertained to be in the centre , it is shown that , not only the ultimate strength , but also the amount of extension and compression with a given strain , indicates the existence of another element of resistance , in addition to the resistances to extension and compression .
The author then points out , that in applying the law of " ut tensio sic vis " to contiguous fibres , under different degrees of extension and compression , the effect of the lateral adhesion has been omitted , and each fibre has been supposed to be capable of taking up the same degree of extension or compression as if it acted separately , and independently of the adjoining fibres .
It is then shown that this supposed independent action of the fibres is inconsistent with other practical results , and evidence is exhibited of a powerful lateral action when unequal strains are exerted .
From these and other considerations , the author is led to think that the effect of the lateral action , tending to modify the effect of the unequal and opposite strains in a beam , constitutes , in effect , a " resistance to flexure " acting in addition to the resistances of tension and compression .
In order to ascertain whether the apparent difference in the amount of tensile strength when excited by direct and transverse strains is due to flexure , the author caused open beams or girders to be made , each of which was formed by two bars of metal ; the upper and lower bars of the same beam were in every case of the same form and dimensions ; but the depth of metal and the distance to which the bars were separated vertically , was varied in the several forms of girder experimented upon .
By these means the bar forming the lower side of each girder was torn asunder under different degrees of flexure .
The different forms of girder experimented upon were of equal length , and were compared with solid beams and with bars of the same metal broken by direct tensile strain .
From the mean of four experiments on each form of girder , the value of the total resistance at the outer fibre is ascertained , and exhibits the following results:1 .
In girders having the same depth of metal , namely about 2 inches , but the total depth of the girder , and consequently the deflections , differentDepth of Total resistance Form of beam or girder .
girder .
Deflection .
' at the outer fibre .
lbs. No. 1 .
Solid beam ... ... ... ... 202 -670 41709 No. 2 .
Open girder ... ... ... 2-51 -510 35386 No. 3 .
Open girder ... ... ... 3-00 -401 31977 No. 4 .
Open girder ... ... ... 4-00 '301 28032 2 .
In girders having the same total depth ( namely 4 inches ) , and consequently nearly the same deflection , but differing in the depth of metalTotal resistance Form of beam or girder .
Depth of metal .
at the outer fibre .
lbs. No. 5 .
Open girder ... ... ... ... .
3-01 37408 No. 4 .
Open girder ... ... ... ... ... 1-97 28032 No. 7 .
Open girder ... ... ... ... ... 156 27908 No. 6 .
Open girder ... ... ... ... 1 ; 48 25271 The tensile strength of the metal employed was ; 18750 found to be ... ... ... ... ... ... , ... ... ... ... ... . .
From these experiments , the particulars of which are fully detailed , the following facts are elicited:1 .
That in all cases the total resistance at the outer fibre , at the time of rupture , is greater than the tensile strength .
2 .
That in girders having the same depth of metal , it increases when the deflection increases ; and 3 .
That in girders having the same total depth , and the same deflection , the resistance is greater when the depth of metal in the beam is greater .
And it follows that there is an element of strength depending on the depth of metal in connexion with the deflection ; or in other words , dependent on the degree of flexure to which the metal forming the beam is subjected .
The author next proceeds to examine the law under which this resistance varies ; and considering the total resistance in the solid beam to be composed of two resistances , one being constant and due to the tensile strength , and the other variable and depending on the depth of the metal in connexion with its deflection , the experiments indicate that the resistance to flexure varies , throughout all 2K the girders , directly as the amount of deflection into the depth of the metal .
The paper concludes by pointing out the important amount of this resistance , the operation of which has been hitherto unknown , and which in cast iron exceeds the tensile strength of the metal , and shows that comparisons of the strength of different forms of section , based on the existing theory , which assumes the resistance at the outer fibre to be constant and equal to the tensile strength of the metal , must be entirely fallacious .
The paper is accompanied by full details of all the experiments , and the measurements for determining the position of the neutral axis .

