March 18 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled , " ' On the Blood-proper and Chyloaqueous Fluid of Invertebrate Animals .
" By Thomas Williams , M.D. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received Dec. 18 , 1851 .
In this paper the author has accumulated numerous observations , founded upon dissection and microscopic inquiry , to prove that there exist in invertebrate animals two distinct kinds of nutrient fluids ; that in some classes of this sub-kingdom these two fluids coexist in the same organism , though contained in distinct systems of conduits , while in others they become united into one .
The author proposes to distinguish these two orders of fluids under the denominations of the blood-proper and chylo-aqueous fluid .
The former is always contained in definitively organized ( walled ) blood-vessels , and having a determinate circulatory movement ; the latter , with equal constancy , in chambers and irregular cavities and cells , communicating invariably with the peritoneal space , having not a determinate circulation , but a to-and-fro movement , maintained by muscular and ciliary agency .
He then adduces evidence , derived from dissection , in proof of the statement that the system of the blood-proper does not exist under any form , the most rudimentary , below the Echinodermata ; that , in other words , the system of the true blood , or of the blood-proper , begins at the Echinodermata .
The author then shows that below the Echinodermata , namely in the families of Polypes and Acalephae , the digestive and circulatory systems are identified , and that consequently the external medium is admitted directly into the nutrient fluids .
He considers that this circumstance constitutes a fundamental distinction between the chylo-aqueous system and that of the blood-proper , into which , under no conditions , is the ex , ternal inorganic element directly introduced , He conceives that his observations suffice to establish the law , with reference to the chylo-aqueous fluid , that in every class in which it exists , it is charged more or less abundantly with organized corpuscles .
This is an invariable fact in the history of this fluid .
His inquiries show that these corpuscles are marked by distinctive microscopic characters , not in different classes and genera only , but in different species , entitling these bodies to great consideration in the establishment of species .
The paper then proceeds to demonstrate the proposition , that in those classes , as in the Echinodermata , Entozoa and Annelida , in which , in the adult animal , these two orders of fluids coexist , though distinct , in the same individual , there prevails between them , as respects their magnitude or development , an inverse proportion ; that while , as instanced in the Echinoderms , the chylo-aqueous fluid filling the ciliated space between the stomach and integument is considerable in volume , the blood-proper and its system are little evolved ; that while , as in the Entozoa , the chylo-aqueous fluid is still the most important fluid element in the organism , the blood system is proportionally rudimentary ; that in the Annelida , especially the higher species of that class , the chylo-aqueous fluid almost disappears , while the system of the true blood acquires , illustrating the law of inverse proportion , a correspondingly-augmented development .
The author then states , that the system of the chylo-aqueous fluid does not exist in the adult , but only in the larva state of the higher members of the articulated series , such as the Myriapoda , Insecta and Crustacea .
In Myriapods and Insects , he has observed that the peritoneal space is occupied by a fluid which does not communicate with , and is distinct in composition from , the contents of the true blood-vessels .
This peritoneal fluid , however , in these classes disappears at a subsequent stage of growth .
Thus the author thinks that a continuous chain , through the medium of the fluids , is established between the Echinoderms at one extreme and the Crustacea at the other .
These classes he proposes to connect together under the designation of the double fluid series , corresponding to the radiate and articulate series of systematic zoologists .
Returning to the standard of the Echinoderms , where the system of the blood-proper first appears in the zoological scale , he shows that at this point the Molluscan chain diverges from the radiate and articulate chain , and may be indicated , in contradistinction from the latter , as the single-fluid series .
The author 's observations lead him to believe , with Professor Milne-Edwards , that in all Molluscs , from the Tunicata to the Cephalopods , the chamber of the peritoneal is continuous with the channels of the circulation , and that consequently the fluids observed in these parts are one and the same fluid , establishing the singleness of the fluid system of the body ; and this conclusion is corroborated by additional evidence drawn from microscopic examinations .
He then recapitulates the results of his researches , and maintains that the base of the invertebrated kingdom of animals is formed of all those inferior series which rank below the Echinoderms ; and that this series is distinguished from the Molluscan , in which also the fluid system is single , by the important circumstance that in the former , unlike the Mollusca , the digestive and circulatory system are identified , or confounded into a single system ; that at the Echinoderms the series divaricates into the double-fluid series and singlefluid series , the former coinciding with the radiate and articulate class , and joining the Vertebrata through the Crustacea ; the latter running parallel with the Molluscan order , and connecting itself to the Vertebrata through the Cephalopods .
The fluids of the zoophytic series are invariably corpusculated , but the corpuscles cannot yet be reduced to any definite type of conformation .
In the Medusan series these bodies become more definitively organized .
The author then demonstrates , that throughout the whole radiate and articulate classes , wherever it is found , the chylo..aqueous fluid is richly corpusculated , or in other words , charged with floating morphotic elements , which , from the constancy of their cliaracters in different species , become grounds for specific distinctions .
It is stated , that , throughout the Echinoderms , Entozoa and Annelida , in which , even in the adult animal , the bloodproper and the chylo-aqueous fluid , though separate , coexist , the latter fluid only is corpusculated , the true blood being invaritably limpid and perfectly fluid ( incorpusculated ) , and alnost always the seat of the colour ; the latter existing as a substance dissolved in the fluid , while in no instance does colour develope itself in the chylo-aqueous fluid .
The paper then shows , that at the point where the chylo-aqueous system disappears , namely at the Myriapods , the true blood becomes the vehicle of the corpuscles .
And lastly , the author adduces a great variety of observations in confirmation of the statement , that througlout the whole Molluscan series without exception , coinciding with his " single-fluid series , " the fluids are richly charged with corpuscles .
The paper is accompanied by numerous illustrations , displaying the characters of the morphotic elements of the circulating fluids of the Invertebrata .

