Numb. 50 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
August 16 .
1669 .
The Contents .
An Invention for Estimating the Weight of Water in Water with ordinary Balances and Weights .
An Extract of a Letter , containing an Account of a Passage by sea to the East-Indies .
Some Considerations about Slate .
Observations concerning the odd Turn of some Shell-snailes , and the Darting of Spiders .
An account of some Books .
I. GEOR G. SINCLARI ARSNOVA et MAGNAGRAVITATIS et L EV ITATI S. I I. OBSERVATIONESMED IC AE , e Musaeo THOM AE BARTHOLIN I. II I. OTTO N. TACHENIIHYPPOCRATES CHYMICU S. I V. T H. BARTHOLINI Dissertatio de CYGNIANATOM E , nunc aucta aCAS P. BARTHOLINO F. V. AE GIDIISTRAUCHII BREVIARIUMCHRONOLOGICU M. V I. ABREGECHRONOLOGIQUE de L ' HISTO IR ESAGREE et PROFAN E , Parle P. LA BB E. An Invention For Estimating the Weight of Water in Water with ordinary Balances and Weights .
THe Author of this Invention is the Noble Robert Boyle ; who was pleased to comply with our desires of communicating it in English to the Curious in England , as by inserting the same in the Latin Translation of his Hydrostatical Paradoxes he hath gratified the Ingenious abroad .
And it will doubtless be the more welcome , for as much as no body , we know of , hath so much as attempted to determine , How much Water may weigh in Water ; and possibly if such a Problem had been proposed , it would have been Iudged impracticable .
The Method or Expedient , he made use of to perform it as near as he could , may be easily learned by the ensuing account of a Trial or two , he made for that purpose , which among his Notes he caused to be registred in the following words .
A Glass-buble of about the bigness of a pullets-egg was purposely blownat the flame of a Lamp , with a somewhat long stem turned up at the end , that it might the more conveniently be broken off .
This Buble being well heated to rarify the Air , and thereby drive out a good part of it , was nimbly sealed at the end , and by the help of the figure of the stem was by a convenient Weight of Lead depressed under water , the Lead and Glass being tied by a string to one Scale of a good Balance , in whose other there was put so much weight , as sufficed to counterpoise the Buble , as it hung freely in the midst of the water .
Then with a long Iron forceps I carefully broke off the feal 'd end of the Buble under water , so as no Buble of Air appeared to emerge or escape through the water , but the liquor by the weight of the Atmosphere sprung into the un-replenisht part of the Glass-buble , and filled the whole cavity about half full ; and presently , as I foretold , the Buble subsided and made the Scale , itwas fastned to , preponderate so much , that there needed 4 .
drachms and 38 .
grains to reduce the Balance to an AEquilibrium .
Then taking out the Buble with the water i n't , we did , by the help of the flame of a candle , warily applied , drive out the water ( which otherwise is not easily excluded at a very narrow stem ) into a Glass counterpoised before ; and we found it , as we expected , to weigh about 4 dramchs and 30 grains , besides some little that remained in the Egg , and some small matter that may have been rarefied into vapors , which added to the piece of Glass that was broken off under water and lost there , might very well amount to 7 .
or 8 .
grains .By which it appears not only , that water hath some weight in water , but that it weighs very near * or altogether as much in Water , as the self same portion of liquor would weigh in the Air .
The same day werepeated the Experiment with another sealed But b e , larger then the former ( being as big as a great Hen-egg , ) and having broken this under water , it grew heavier by 7 .
drachms and 34 .
grains ; and having taken out the Buble , and driven out the water into a counterpoised Glass , we found the transvasated liquor to amount to the same weight , abating 6 or 7 grains , which it might well have lost upon such accompts , as have been newly mentioned .
* This expression was added .
to leave Liberty for a further inquiry , Whether the Experiment , which hereby appears convincing as to the main thing intended to be proved may not admit the having something further debated , and annexed about some circumstantial thing or other .

