]\gt ; WHEN a surface is a full radiator and its temperature can be determined at once by the fourth-power law if we know the rate at which it is radiating energy .
If it is radiating it receives ] , then a knowledge of the solar constant enables us to find the iture .
We can thus Inake e of the highest temperature which a ) surface call reach ) ] it is only heat from the sun .
We call make more or less approximate estimates of the of the anetary s assuming conditions udel .
which the radiation takes and we can rmine , fairly exactly , mlJeratures of very small bodies in interplanetary space .
These deterninations require a ] of the of adiatio and of either the solar constant or the effective temperature of the sun , eithel of which , as is well known , can be found the other means of the radiation constant .
Ib will be convenient to give the values of these quantities before them to our special problems .
*A surface which bsorbs , efore emits , every of tion , is escril ) " " a description which is lsly bad wheIl the snrface is minous .
It is much better described " " a fnll absorber\ldquo ; or " " a full \ldquo ; This pointed ont W. in his ] ) on " " Lcs qncs d } \ldquo ; Congres Physiqne , .
He lnw enables to culate tho nturcs of celestial ) odics which rooeive their light the Rlltl , by ting the energy which they radiate to the energy which they receive from the sun , and for the we obtain nearly the mean temperature , the reflecting power of , while empcl of Neptune should be below ( 357 .
) o 2 SSOR J. H. POYNTING1 ON ) IATION IN SOLAR SYSTEM : The Constant of Radiation .
If is the radiated per second per square centimetre by a full radiator at ( where A stands for the absolute scale ) , the fourth-power law states that where is the constant of radiation .
According to the constant is erg .
The Solar The solar constant is usually expressed as a number of calories received per minute by a square centimetre held normal to the sun 's rays at the distance of the earth .
The determinations by different ) servers differ so widely that it is not necessary for our present purpose to consider whether the constant really exists or whether there small periodic variations constancy .
ated the value as 4 calories square centimetre per minute , and this value is adopted by as very probable .
When converted to ergs per second this gives ergs/ cm.2 sec. , where the suffix denotes that it is value .
assumed that the atmosphere transmits about 59 per cent. of the energy fionl a zenith sun and from his measurement of the reaching the earth 's surface estimated the value of the constant at 3 calories .
This gives sec. , ROSETTIS assumed a transmission of 78 per cent. from the zenith sun , but WILSON and consider that 71 per cent. ) resents R numbers better than 78 per cent. in LANGLEY'S value we replace 5 cent. by 71 per cent. we get calories .
This gives ergs/ cm.2 sec. ' Wied .
Ann vol. 65 , 1898 , p. 748 .
Congr International de Physique , ' vol. 3 , p. 453 .
'Phil .
' vol. 15 , 1883 , p. 153 , and ' Researches on Heat .
' 'Phil .
Mag vol. 8 , 1879 , p. 547 .
'Phil .
Trans , 1894 , p. 383 , ITS ON RATUR AND ITS ON .
527 .from the If is the radius of the the centin , then the total rate of emission is .
This ) assing t the sphere of radius , at the distance of the earth and with face 4 , gives where is the solar constant .
Hence Corresponding to the three values of Sjust given have three values of ; ; The Effect of the Sun .
If we equate the sun 's radiation to , where is the radiation constant , get the " " effective temperature " " of the sun , that is the telnperature of a full radiator which is emitting energy at the same rate .
Thus 5 .
whence A approximately .
Silnilarly ; .
WILSON* a direct comparison of the radiation from the sun with that from a full radiator at .
Assuming a zenith transmission of 71 per cent. , he 5778o A as the ctive solar mperature .
If we put we get This is no doubt too low a value .
Either then WILSON'S zenith transmission was less than 71 per cent. or KURLBAUM'S constant is too small .
The low value is probably to be accounted for chiefly by the first supposition .
WILSON points out that if is the true value of the transmission , his value of the temperature is to be multiplied by .
If we take as the true value then will be given by This low value is not necessarily inconsistent with the 1nuch higher value ) cent. 'Roy .
Soc. vol. 69 , 1901-2 , p. 312 . ? .
H. POINTING ON RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SySTEM nsed ) constant , transmission videly time and ] ) , and we ] reason to assume that , obtained by , would been received the zenith at the time and in the ) lace } was making his determination .
The Ter ture of .
In the steady temperature of any body as conditioned by the radiation received from the sun , we have to consider whether it is necessary to take into account the radiation from the rest of the sky .
If it receives from the sun , from the rest of the sky , and if its own radiation is , then in the steady state or It behaves therefore as if it were receiving from the sun , but as if it were placed in a fully radiatinoa ' enclosure of such temperature that the radiation is .
This temperature is the " " effective temperature of space The temperature may perhaps be more definitely described as that of a small ful ] absorber placed at a distance from any planet and screened from the sun .
Various well-known attempts have been made to estimate this temperature , but the data are very uncertain .
The fourth-power law howeyer shows that it is not very much above the absolute zero , if we can assume that the quality of starlight is not very different from that of sunlight .
According to starlight is one-tenth full moonlight .
Full moonlight is variously estimated in terms of full sunlight .
LANGLEY takes it as .
These two values combined give sunlight as starlight .
But starlight comes from the whole hemisphere , while the sun only occupies a small part of it .
In comparing temperatures we lJave to use the brightness of sunlight as if the whole hemisphere were paved with suns .
If is the illumination of a surface at , fig. 1 , lighted by the sun in zenith at , and if is the area of the sun 's diametral plane , then .
is the illumination at due to each square centimetre .
If the hemisphere were all of the same brightness as the sun , the illumination at due to the ring of sky between and would be where is the distance of the sun .
'L'Astronomie , ' vol. 5 , p. 406 .
irst hIemoir on the Tcmperature of the Surface of the Moon 'National Acndemy of Sciences vol. 3 .
ITS ON ITS ] ) Integrating from to , we Total illumination B. The tion from a hemisphere payed with suns is therefore 46 , times that from the stellar sky .
If we assume ) ] of the is the same in both cases , that is , if we assulne that the energy is proportional to the light part of the spectrum , we have by the fourth-power law effective temperature of sun As the temperature of the sun probably lies between 6000o A and this give ffective tlrature of space A. If , then , a body is raised by the sun to even such a small multiple of as , say , 6 the fourth-power law of radiation implies that it is giving out and therefore receiving from the sun more than a thousand times as much energy as it is receiving from the sky .
The sky radiation may therefore be left out of the account when we dealing with approxinlate estimates and not with exact results , and bodies in the solar system may be regarded as being situated in a zero enclosure except in so far as they receive radiation from the sun .
cratnrc of Planet Assumed Conditions when distance Jthe to of the The real earth a of } ) lexity far too great to deal with .
I shall therefore consider ideal earth for which certain collditions hold , more or less approximating to reality , and determine the temperature of its surface on the assumption that it receives heat from the sun only .
Let us suppose:\mdash ; 1 .
That the planet is rotating about an axis perpendicular to the plane of its orbit , which is circular .
This will give us too high a temperature at the equator , and the absolute zero , which is too low , at the poles .
The mean , however , over the planet , will probably be not much affected by the supposition .
2 .
That effect of the atmosphere is to keep the temperature in any given latitude the same , day and night .
CCII .
This ireat depalture from .
On the sea , which is more twothirds of surface , the daily range is very small , of the order of 1o or while even on the land it is , in extreme ases , not more than C. , which is not a large fraction of the absolute temperature .
3 .
That the surface and the atmosphere over it at any one point have one effective temperature as a full radiator .
This is no doubt a departure from reality .
How wide a departure have no present means of estimating .
4 .
That there is no convection of heat from one latitude to another .
This is a very wide departure from reality .
But , as we shall see below , the mean temperature of the planet is very little affected by convection , even if we assume that it is so extensive as to make the surface of uniform temperature .
5 .
That the reflexion at each point is of the radiation receiyed .
This is probably of the order of the actual reflexion from the earth .
According to LANGLEY the moon reflects about of the radiation received .
The earth certainly reflects less .
The temperatures determined hereafter are proportional to the 4th root of the coefficient of absorption .
Even if this coefficient is as low as its 4th root is .
Hence if the actual value is anywhere between and 1 , the assumed value of will not make an error of more than per cent. in the value of the temperature .
6 .
That the planet ultimately radiates out all the heat receiyed from the sun , no more and no less .
This again is very near the condition of the real earth , which , on the whole , .radiates out rather more than it perhaps on the average a calorie per square centimetre in three days .
Making these six suppositions , let us calculate the temperature of various parts of this ideal planet .
Consider a band between latitudes and .
The area ceiving heat from the sun at any instant , if projected normally to the strealn of solar radiation , is ( fig. 2 ) where is the radius of the planet .
If is the solar constant , this band is absorbing , with coefficient 0 .
But the band all round the globe is radiating equally , according to the second supposition , and the radiating area is ' ' Third Memoir on the Temperature of the Moon 'National Academy of Sciences , ' vol. 4 , Part 2 , p. 197 .
ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND ITS PRESSURE ON SMALL BODIES .
.531 Hence the radiation emitted per square centimetre is 0 .
0 .
If the effective temperature in this latitude is , we have or If we put , we get the equatorial temperature esponding to each of the different values of given above , .
: Equatorial A , , , The temperature in latitude is equatorial temperature Thus , in latitude , it is equatorial temperature .
The average temperature over the globe is where is the temperature The average temperature , then , is little more than 1 per cent. above the temperature in latitude If we use the three values of just given , we have Average A nately .
, , Our fourth supposition was that there is no convection by wind or water from one latitude to another .
Let us now go to the other extreme and suppose that the convection is so great that the temperature is practically uniform all over the globe .
PROFESSOR J. H. POINTING IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM : We then have a receiving surface virtually , and a surface .
Then we get the radiation emitted per square centimetre ' ; and if is the telnperatule equired for this , 5 .
; whence A tely , \ldquo ; : not more than above those obtained for the average on the supposition of no convection .
these results with the temperature of the real earth , it is seen at once that they are of the same order .
Ths average temperature of the earth 's surface is usually estimated at about F. , say 2s A. The temperature of the atmosphere is on the whole decidedly lower than that of the surface below it .
should therefore conclude that the earth 's effective temperature is what below 28 A. Again , the earth and the atmosphere , taken as one surface , do not constitute a full absorber , but are to some extent selective .
Hence we should expect the earth to be , if anything , of a higher temperature than a full absorber and radiator under the same conditions .
For both these reasons , then , the ideal planet might be expected to have a temperature below rather than above A. The lowest estimate obtained above is therefore probably nearest to the truth , and it would appear that even that is somewhat too high .
This tends to show that , if we accept KURLBAUM'S value of the radiation constant , we cannot put the solar constant so high as 3 or 4 , but must accept a value much nearer to that which I have called ROSETTI'S value , In what follows I shall therefore take ROSETTI'S value and the resulting value of solar temperature , , 6200o A. The calculation made above may be turned the other way round , and may be used for a Determination of the Effective Temperature of the Sun from the Average Ternperature of the Assuming that the real earth may be replaced by the ideal planet already con(sidel.ed , the radiation per square centimetre the equatorial band is .
But the ITS EFFECT ON IPERATURE A ITS PRESSURE ON BODIES .
533 radiation per square netre from the sun 's surface is .
If then is the earth 's equatorial temperature , and is the solar temperature , 0 .
whence The of the earth is of telllperature .
If this is then If we take of the real earth as , and as ) equal to that of the ideal , Upper Lim.it to the of a exposed norm to at the of from the Sun .
The highest temperature which a full radiator can attain is that for which its radiation is equal to the energy received .
This will only hold when no appreciable of heat is conducted inwards from the surface .
To obtain the upper lilnit in the case under consideration , we have to equate the radiation to the solar constant , which we shall now take as .
Then , and .
If the surface reflects some of the radiation and absorbs a fraction of that on it , then the effective temperature .
T'he of the of the We may ) this result to find an upper limit to the temperature of the llooD 's surface .
This upper limit can only be attained when it is out radiation as rapidly as it receives it , and is therefore conducting no appreciable quantity inwards .
We shall take estimate ( loc. cit. ) of cted 1- .
This is tted r represented lleally enough by The upper limit of temperature of the surface exposed to a zenith , therefore , .
J. H. pointing ON RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM : This , then , is the upper limit to the temperature of the hottest part of an airless moon .
For a surface at angle with the line to the sun , co If we take this as the law of temperature of the side of the moon exposed to the sun , we can find the effective temperature of the full moon as seen from the earth , i. e. , the uniform temperature of a flat disc of radius equal to that of the moon , sending to us the same total radiation .
If is the normal stream of radiation from 1 sq .
centim. of surface of the moon immediately under the sun sent out through a cone angle , that sent out in direction to the normal is .
But 1 sq .
centim. on the moon 's surface inclined at to the sun 's rays only receiyes of the radiation received by the surface immediately under the sun .
It therefore sends in the direction of the earth , also at to the normal , only .
Hence the total radiation to the earth , obtained by putting and integrating is where is the radius of the moon and is its distance from the earth N. Let be the stream from the equivalent flat disc , then and The effective temperature of the flat disc is therefore that of the surface immediately under the sun at the same distance from it .
Then the effective average A. The upper limit , then , to the average effective temperature of the moon 's disc is just below that of boiling water .
This is very considerably above LANGLI ] estimate , that the surface of the full moon is a few above the freezing-point .
There can be no doubt that a very appreciable amount of heat is conducted inwards .
The observations during eclipses by LANGLEY* and by BOEDDICKER show that some heat is still received from the moon 's surface when it has entered the full shadow , and that it takes time after the eclipse has passed to establish a steady temperature again .
It might be possible to * ' Third Memoir , ' p. 159 .
ITS EFFECT ON { AND TTS ON SMALL BODIES .
make some .
estimate of the amount conducted from the Fourier equation , but the problem is not an easy rhaps we get the ) estimate by comparing the actual temperature with above found .
If the actual temperature is taken as about the upper limit , say , then the radiation outwards is of the order of that where no conduction exists .
Then nearly the heat is probably conducted inwards .
If the moon always turned the face to the sun instead of to the earth , the upper limit would be approached .
Iemperature of Spherical : Solid Body of the Order 1 .
in diameter the Distance of thoe from the The calculation of the temperature of such a body is interesting for two reasons .
Firstly , the body will be at nearly the same temperature throughout , and secondly , as we shall show in second part of this paper , the mutual repulsion of two such bodies , due to the pressure of their radiation , is of the same order as their gravitative attraction .
If the radius of the body is , its effective area is , and it ergs/ sec. Its radiating surface is , and therefore its average radiation per square centimetre in the steady state is .
If we take .
or , and if the conductivity is of the order of that of terrestrial rock lying , say , between and , it is evident that a difference of temperature of only a few degrees between the receiving and the dark surfaces will convey heat sufficient to supply radiation , , equal to the ayerage .
Thus , if the conductivity is and the is 1 centim. , a difference of rature of suffices .
We may therefore take the temperature of the surface as approximately uniform when the steady state is reached .
Let the temperature be , and let the solar temperature be .
Then we have : : 46,000 and If A approximately .
This will be the temperature of fully absorbing bodies smaller than 1 centim. , so long as they are not too small to absorb the radiation falling on them .
Variation of Distance the Since the radiation aries inversely as the square of the distance from the sun , that given out varies in the same ratio .
The temperature of the surface varies therefore as the fourth root of the square , that is inversely as the square root of the distance .
enables us to deduce at once the temperatures of the various surfaces and bodies which we have considered , if placed at the distances of different ) lanets as well as at the distance of the earth .
We have merely to multiply the results hitherto found by The following table contains the values of the temperatures at selected distances , all on the absolute scale:\mdash ; TABLD of Temperatures of Surfaces at Different Distances from the Sun .
All on the Absolute Scale .
We have omitted the larger planets except Neptune , since in all probability they radiate heat of their own in considerable proportion .
is inserted merely to show how low temperatures would be at his distance if there were no supply of internal heat .
The results given in the table may not be exactly applicable to any of the planets , but they at least indicate the order of temperature which probably prevails .
If , for instance , Mars is to be regarded as having an atmosphere with regulating properties like our own , his equatorial temperature , Column IV .
, is probably far below the temperature of freezin water , and his average temperature , Column V. , must be not very different from that of freezing mercury .
If , on the other hand , we suppose that his atmosphere has no regulating power , we get the upper limits not very ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND ITS PRESSURE ON SMALL BODIES .
537 different from those in Columns VI .
and VII .
These are the limits for the bright side , and they imply nearly absolute zero on the dark side .
If we regard Mars as resemblin our moon , and take the moon 's effective temperature as the corresponding temperature for Mars is , and the highest temperature is But the surface of Mars has probably a higher coefficient of absorption than the surface of the moon\mdash ; it certainly has for light\mdash ; so that we may put his effective temperature on this supposition some few degrees above , and his equatorial temperature some rees higher still .
It appears exceedingly probable , then , that whether we regard as like the earth , or , going to the other extreme , as like the moon , the temperature of his surface is everywhere below the of water .
The only escape from this conclusion that I can see is by way of a ) supposition that an appreciable amount of heat is issuing from beneath his surface .
We cannot draw any definite conclusions as to the temperatures of Mercury and Venus till we know whether they have atmospheres and whether they rotate on their owll axes .
If we make both these suppositions and further suppose that their conditions approxinlate to those of the ideal planet at their distances given in Columns and , then they may well be surrounded by hot clouds , as is sometimes supposed , entirely screemng their solid bodies from us .
If , on the other hand , their atmospheres are ineffective as regulators and if they always present the same face to the sull , the hottest part of Mercury is probably not far from , and that of Venus not from 50 A. If a comet consist of small solid particles of diameter of the order 1 centim. or less , then the temperatures of these particles are given in Column IX .
At one-quarter of the earth 's distance , say 23 million miles from the sun , the ature is , about the -point of lead .
At one-twenty-fifth , say million miles , it will be about 1500o , say the melting point of cast-iron .
Nearer than this the temperature no doubt increases rapidly , but the law of temperature , deduced from the inverse square law for the radiation received , requires amendment , as that law was based on the supposition that a hemisphere only is lighted by the sun , and that the whole of his disc is visible from every part of that hemisphere .
Both of these suppositions cease to hold when the distance from the sun is only a small multiple of his radius .
PART If .
vADIATlON PRESSURES .
The pressure of radiation against a surface on which it falls , first deduced by MAXWELL from the Electromagnetic Theory of Light , is now established on au experimental basis by the work of LEBFDEW , confirmed by that of HULL .
V0L .
CCIr .
; Though this pressure was first deduced as a consequence of the Electromagnetic Theory , BARTOLI showed , independently , that a pressure must exist without any theory as to the nature of light beyond a supposition which may perhaps be put in the form that a surface can move through the ether , doing work on the radiation alone and not on the ether in which the radiation exists .
Professor LARMOR has given a proof of this pressure and has shown that it has the value assigned to it by MAXWELL , , that it is numerically equal to the energy density in the incident wave , whatever may be the nature of the waves , so long as their energy density for given amplitude is inversely as the square of the wave-length .
We may , in fact , regard a pencil of radiation as a stream of momentum , the direction of the momentum being the axis of pencil .
If is the energy density of the pencil , its velocity , the momentum density may be regarded as If the stream of radiation is being emitted by a surface , the surface is losing the momentum carried out with the issuing stream , and is so bein pressed backwards .
If the stream is bein absorbed by the surface , then it is gaining the momentum and is still bein pressed backwards , the forces being in the line of propagation .
As the expressions for the radiation pressure in various cases are probably not very well known , it may be convenient to state them here for use in what follows .
of Pressure in Different Cases .
If 1 sq .
centim. of a full radiator is emitting energy per second , and if is the energy it is emitting through a cone , with axis along the normal , then in direction its projection is , and it is emitting Ncos through a cone Putting , and integrating over the hemisphere , we have If we draw a hemisphere , radius , round the source as centre , the energy falling on area is per second , and , since the velocity is per second , the energy densityjust outside the on which it falls is , and this is the rate at which the momentum is being received , that is , it is the normal pressure .
The total force on area is .
This is the momentum sent out by the radiating square centimetre per second through the pencil with angle , in the direction , and is therefore the force on the square centimetre due to that pencil .
Resolving along the normal and in the surface we have Normal pressure Tangential stress 'Brit .
Assoc. port , ' 1900 ; 'Encyc .
Brit vol. 32 , Art .
" " Radiation .
' ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND ITS ON IALL B Putting and over the hemisphere , we get Total normal pressure sin Total tangential stress , since the radiation is symmetrical about the normal .
If the surface is receivin radiation , let us suppose that the stream is a parallel pencil per second per square centimetre held normal to the stream , and that it is inclined at to the normal to the receivin .
The momentum received per second is .
This produces Normal pressure Tangential stress If the stream is entirely absorbed both these forces exist .
If the stream is entirely reflected , the reflected pencil exerts an equal normal force and an equal and opposite tangential force , and we have only normal pressure of amount If only a fraction is reflected , the incident and reflected streams will give Normal pressure Tangential stress To the normal pressure must be added the pressure due to the radiation elnitted from the surface .
Pressure in Full If a full absorber is exposed normally to the solar radiation at the distance of the earth the pressure on it is , or dine / sq .
centinl .
The Radiation Pressures Between Small Bodies .
mutual It is well known that the radiation force on a small body , exposed to solar radiation , does not decrease so rapidly as gravitative pull on the body as its size decreases .
If the body is a sphere of radius and density , and with a fully absorbing surface , and if it is so small that it is practically at one temperature all through , it is receivin a stream of momentum directed the sun .
Its own radiation outwards equal in all directions has zero resultant pressure .
The gravitative acceleration towards the sun at the distance of the earth is about cenf i. Then have The two will be equal when If we put ; we get This is the well-known result that a body of diameter about two wave-lengths of red would be equally attracted and repelled if we could assume that a surface so small still continued to absorb .
But , of course , when we are getting to dimensions comparable with a wave-length that assumption can no longer be made .
It is not , I think , equally well recognised that if the body is diminished in size , the radiation pressure due to it also decreases less rapidly than the gravitative pull which it exerts .
For the radiation decreases as the square of the radius of the emitting body and its gravitative pull as the cube .
We can easily compare the radiation and gravitation forces between two bodies , if for simplicity we assume that their distance apart is very great compared with the radius of either .
Let AB , , be two spheres with full radiating surfaces .
Let their radii be and let their centres oo ' be apart .
If this distance is great compared with and , each may be regarded as receiving a parallel stream from the other .
Let A send out a normal stream per square centimetre through cone while sends out receives the stream of cross section or the of the cone is , and it issues virtually from area for at , A will appear as a uniformly bright flat disc .
Then the total force on here ITS .
541 The force on A due to is These are ot equal unless , unless the two bodies the same temperature , all illustration of of action and eactio does not hold between the and } ) lone .
Thev no longer constitute the whole of the momentum systenl .
The there , or whatever we the lightbearing medium , is material , and takes its part in the Jnomenlunl 1tions of the system .
If the surfaces are partially or totally reflecting , the forces are easily obtained .
Thus if one is totally reHectin , it can be shown that the force is only half as when it is fully .
But it will be sufficient to confine ourselves to the case of complete absorption , followed by radiation of the absorbed heat equally in all directions from all parts of the surface .
More neral assumptions do not alter the order of the forces found .
If is of gravitation , and if densities of is tion pull 01 ' ; IR , we have If we pose the two bodies to have the ) erature of the sun say , 6200o and its density , say then F 0 .
then centims. or 335 metres .
Of course two globes of this size would soon cool below the telnperature of the sun , even if for an instant they could be raised up to it .
If we suppose A\mdash ; the approximate temperature of small bodies at the distance of earth from the and if we take , then , when centims. Thus two globes of water\mdash ; probably nearly full absorbers at 30 A\mdash ; will at that temperature neither attract nor repel each other if their radii are about 20 centims. If the density of the spheres ) that so often used for masses the when centims. SSOR J. H. POINTING ON RADIATION THE SOLAR SYSTEM : This does not throw any doubt on the esults of Cavendish experiments , for it only holds when the radiators are in an enclosure of very low absolute temperature .
In all vendish experiments the greatest care is taken to make the attracted body and its enclosure of one uniform temperature .
The really in case is that of two small meteorites , in interplanetary space .
Tojudge from the specimens which succeed in penetrating the earth 's atmosphere they are very dense .
Let us suppose them to have density \mdash ; that of the earth\mdash ; and temperature , , that which they will have at the earth 's distance .
Then when centims. If the radii of the bodies are less than the values found for equality of and in the different cases , the net effect is repulsion .
The ratio of to is inyersely as the square of the radius , so that , as the radii are decreased from the values giving , the radiation repulsion soon becomes enormously greater than the gravitation pull , and the latter may be neglected in comparison .
Thus for two drops of water at 30 A in a zero enclosure , with radii centim. , the pressure is nearly 400,000,000 times the pull .
It is not , however , that the radiation force is great , or even its acceleration .
The force becomes exceedingly minute , but the gravitation much more minute .
Thus consider two drops of water at 30 placed in a zero enclosure at a distance apart .
Our assumption of parallel radiation from one to the other is now only a rough approximation , but the result will be of the right order .
The radiation push is , and the acceleration is approximately .
This only becomes considerable when the drops approach molecular dimensions , and long before this they cease to absorb fully the stream of momentum fallin on them .
Still , even molecules are selective absorbers , and absorb especially each other 's radiations .
And we may expect that if two gas molecules collide and set each other radiating much more violently than before , they will be practically in an enclosure of much lower temperature than their own , and their mutual radiation may result in very rapid repulsion\mdash ; repulsion of the order of the fourth power of the temperature reached .
Radiation Pressure betwee , Bodies at Different from the Sun .
We have seen above , that if two small spheres of density are at the distance of the earth from the sun , their gravitation will be balanced by their radiation pressure when the radius of each is centims. Now the balancing radius is proportional to the square of the temperature , that is , inversely proportional to the distance , since the temperature ( Part I. ) is inversely as the square root of the distance .
Thus , at the distance of Mercury , the radii would be about 9 centims. ; a million miles from the ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND ITS ON JALL BODIES .
54.3 sun 's surface they would be about 200 centims. ; out at Neptune they would be about 1 millim. We see then that the mutual action between small bodies of density that of the earth , will , at different distances , change sign for different sizes of body , ranging from something of the order of 4 metres diameter near the sun to the order of 2 diameter at the distance of Neptune .
A ring of small planets , each of radius centims. , and density , would move round the sun at the distance of the earth without net mutual attraction or repulsion , and each might be regarded as moving independently of the rest .
It appears possible that if Saturn is hot enough , considerations of this kind may apply to his rings .
The repulsion between small colliding bodies , eve if not heated by the sun , must lead to some delay in their final aggregation .
This is obvious when there are only two small bodies , and their temperature is considerably raised by the collision .
But there is also delay , if instead of a single pair we suppose two swarms to collide .
Near the boundary of the region , a body will experience radiation pressure chiefly on one side , and will tend to be driven out of the system .
Of course , if the swarms are so dense that a member near the outside cannot see through the rest , this effect will be less .
A body in front of another entirely screens its radiation , but the gravitation is not screened .
Hence , a body near the boundary of a denselypacked region of collision may be repelled only by the colliding bodies just round it , while it will be attracted by all ; or , to put the same idea in another way , a body in a spherical swarm of uniform temperature will only be pulled equally in all directions at the centre of the swarm , but it will be equally repelled in all directions as soon as it is sufficiently deep to be surrounded by its fellows wherever , so to speak , it looks .
of Action and ( jlction between Two ) We have seen that two distant spheres push each other with forces and , and that these , though opposite , are not equal unless It would be easy to imagine cases in which the forces were not even opposite or in the same directions .
At first sight , then , it would appear that we have two bodies acting upon each other with unequal forces , but of course this statement is inexact .
The bodies do not act upon each other at all ; each sends out a stream of momentum into the medium surrounding it .
Some of this momentum is ultimately intercepted by the other , and in its passage the momentum belongs neither to one body to the other .
If we assume that the momentum is conserved , and of course everything in the methods of this paper depends on that assumption , the action on one of the bodies is equal and opposite to the reaction on the light-bearing medium contiguous to it .
There is no failure of the law of action and reaction , but an extenslon of our idea of matter to include the medium .
There should be no difficulty in this extension ; indeed , we have made it long ago in endowing the medium with energyproperties .
Whether the momentum in the medium is in the form of mass moving with velocity in the direction of propogation is perhaps open to doubt .
We may , perhaps , have different forms of momentum just as we may have different forms of energy , and possibly we ought not to separate the momentum in radiation into the factors / and , but keep it for the present as one quantity M. An interesting sxample of inequality of the radiation forces on two mutually radiating bodies is afforded by two equal spheres , for which , at a given temperatul.e , the radiation push balances the gravitation pull P. Raise one in temperature so that the push on the other becomes .
Lower the other so that the push on the first becomes , but adjust so that then .
There will then be equal accelerations of the two in the same , not in opposite directions , and a chase will begin in the joining the centres , the hotter chasing the colder .
If the two temperatures could be maintained , the velocity would go on increasing ; but the increase would not be indefinitely great , inasmuch as a Doppler effect would come into play .
Each sphere moving forward would crowd up against the radiation it enlitted in front , and open out from the radiation it emitted back .
This would increase the front and decrease the back pressure , ultimately the excess of front pressure would balance the accelerating force due to mutual radiation .
Let us examine the effect of tion of a radiating surface on the pressure of its radiation against it .
Application of Principle to the Moving If a unit area , fig. 4 , is moving with velocity in any direction AB , making angle with its normal AN , the effect on the energy density in the stream of radiation issuing in any direction AP two-fold .
If the lnotion is such as to shorten , the waves and their energy are crowded up into less space , and if such as to lengthen , they opened out .
At the same time , in the one case A is doing work against the adiation ressure and in the other is having work done on it .
We shall assume , as in the thermodynamic theory of radiation , that this work adds to or subtracts from the energy of radiation .
Both effects ( 1 ) the crowding , and ( 2 ) the work done , or the reverse of each , combine to alter the energy and therefore the radiation ) essure .
We no data } ) which we can determine whether the ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND TTS PRESSURE ON SMALL BODIES .
545 motion alters the rate at which the surface is emitting radiation , but it appears worth while to trace consequences on the assumption that the radiation goes on as if the surface were at rest , but that it is crowded up into less space or spread over more , and that we can superpose on this the given out to , or taken from , the stream by the work done by or on the moving surface by the radiation pressure .
This work can evidently be calculated to the first order of approximation by supposing the pressure equal to its value when the surface is at rest .
Let us draw from A as centre a sphere of radius , equal to the velocity of radiation .
The energy which , in a system at rest .
would be radiated into a cone with A as vertex , length , and solid angle , in the direction AP making with the direction of motion AB , will now be crowded up into a cone of length , since is the velocity of A in the direction .
We shall suppose that is very small .
Hence the energy density in the cone is increased in the ratio : or by the factor Considering now the effect of the work done , the force on A due to the stream in is , and the done in one second is Ncos When A is at rest the energy in this cone is When A is moving it is increased to that is Thus the effect of the work done is equal to that of the crowding and the energy density on the whole is increased in the ratio The pressure is increased in the ratio of the energy density .
Then the force on due to the radiation through is increased from August 20 , 1903.\mdash ; Since the above was written Professor LARMOR has pointed out to me that the results obtained in the text from this assumption , along with the hypothesis of crowding of the radiation and its increase by an amount equivalent to the of the radiation pressure , can ) justified by an argument based on the following considerations .
A perfect reflector moving with form speed in an enclosure , itself also moving at that speed , and so in a steady state , must send back as much radiation of every kind as a full radiator in its place .
Now the odynamics of perfect reflexion known ; hence.the effect of motion of a full radiator on the mount of its radiation can be deternlme resu .
The result is equivalent to the statement that the amplitudes of the excursions of the optical ibrators are the same at the same temperature whether the source to which they belong is moving or not .
VOL. , \mdash ; A. PROFESSOR J. H. ON DIATION IN THE SOLAR : If we resolve this along the normal to the surface A and integrate over the helnisl ) ere we obtain the total normal pressure .
As we only want to know the change in pressure we may neglect the first term which gives the pressure on A at rest , and we have 2- ff is the angle between the normal planes through and we have Putting The change in the tangential stress is evidently in the direction , that of the component of in the plane of A. We may therefore resolve each element of tangential stress in the direction omitting the first term again , since in this case it disappears on integration , the element due to in the direction AP will contribute and integrating over the hemisphere we have Force on a Sphere ing Velocity " " \ldquo ; in a Given Direction .
If a sphere , radius , is moving with velocity , we may from symmetry resolve the forces on each element in the direction of motion .
The resolutes will be and .
Evidently it is sufficient to integrate over the front hemisphere and then double the result .
We have the Retarding Force ITS ON ANY ) ITS T'RESSLRE ON SMALL BODY 547 It is noteworthy that one half of this is due to the normal , the other half to the tangential stresses .
If the sphere has density the acceleration is obtained by dividing by , then on If the sphere radius ) is ) with angular velocity , then any element of the surface from the equator is moving with lineal velocity at in its own plane .
This does not affect the ) ornnal } ) essure , but it oduces a tangential stress opposing the motion Taking moments round the and integrating over the sphere , we obtain a couple whence The rate of diminution of is thel.efore of the me as that of ?
1 .
To obtain an idea of the magnitude of the etardation of a moving sphere , let us suppose that one is moving through a medium .
Let its radius be centim. , its density , its temperature A. Then This will begin to affect the velocity by the order of 1 in 10,000 in , say , seconds , or taking the year as secollds , in about 30,000 years .
The effect is inversely as radius , so that a dust particle centim. radius will be equally affected in 30 The effect is as fourth p of the tenll ) el.ature , so that with rising temperature it becomes rapidly more serious .
Equatvon to tkoe Orbit of Small Spherical Absorbing Particle illoving a Stationary Me Round the Sun .
It is evident from the above result , that the effect of motion on ation pressure may be very considerable in the case of a small absorbing particle moving round the sun .
We shall take the spherical , of radius and distance from the sun .
We shall suppose the radius so small that the particle is of one temperature throughout , the PROFESSOR J. H. POINTING ON RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM : temperature due to the solar radiation which it receives , but that it is still so large as to be attracted much more than it is repelled by the sun .
Both attraction and repulsion are inversely as the square of the distance , so that we shall have a central force which we may put as producing acceleration , where A is constant .
We know that at the distance of the earth , putting centim. say centim. Then .
The force acting against the motion produces retardation If is the solar constant at the distance , its value at distance is Putting , then the acceleration in the line of motion is where , and is now written for the velocity The accelerations along and perpendicular to the radius vector give the equations ( ] ) , ( 2 ) .
From ( 2 ) we get whence ( 3 ) , where is the constant of integration .
If is when , then is the initial value of .
Further , as increases decreases and is when .
This gives a limit to the angle described .
Equation ( 1 ) may be written . . . . .
( 4 ) .
Putting for from ( 3 ) , ITS EFFECT ON TEMPERATURE AND ITS PRESSURE ON SMALL BODIES .
54 !
) Substituting in ( 4 ) This can ] ) robablyon ] be rated by .
We caIl see the effect the motion at the beginning by putting since is small if we begin at the distance of and with the velocity of the earth .
An integral of this is .
The complementary function will be periodic and be onlitted .
To the of approximation adopted 1 \mdash ; and Then initially In applying these results , we may note that ) is constant for all distances , and that , the 's distance , is 493 U. the value of solar constant , , and taking , we get will depend on the imtial conditions .
Assuming that the body considered is initially moving in a circle , then , at the beginning since at the acceleration to the is Then Substituting these values in we have This gives ] the initial value o and cannot be taken to hold for a time which will make ) .
But see if , so that J. IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM : is a limit to the number of evolutions , even if we suppose the way clear ) centre .
Putting the numerical values we get Suppose , example , that , then year , This a ) centim. radius and density , starting with the velocity of the earth , and at its distance the sun , will move inwards oo of its distance in about 10,000 years .
It cannot in all make so many as revolutions .
If we put , since the effects inversely as , then its distance will decrease by about 1 in 10,000 in 10 , and it cannot make in all so many as revolutions .
If instead of starting from the distance of the earth , the particle starts from , say , the distance , the in the radius is 100 times as great and the number of revolutions is times less .
Then with radius 1 centim. the distance decreases by oo in 100 , and there llot so many as 80,000 revolutions , while adius 0 .
the distance decreases by oo in year , and there are not so many as 80 revolutions .
Small particles , therefore , eve1l of the order of 1 centim. radius , would be drawn into the sun , even from the distance of the earth , in times not large compared with geological times , and dust particles iflarge enough to absorb solar radiation would be swept in in a time almost comparable with historical times .
Near the sun the effects are vastly greater .
The application to meteoric dust in the system is obvious .
There should be a similar with dust and small particles circulating round the earth .
If , for example , any of the Krakatoa dust was blown out so beyond the atmosphere , and was given such nnotion that the pal.ticles became satellites to the earth , at time dust will return .
ring dust articles moving round a planet and receiving heat either the sun or from the planet will tend to draw in to the planet .
[ Note October 31.\mdash ; Since the foregoing papel was printed I have reexamined the theory of the pressure on a fully radiating surface when in motion , and have come to the conclusion that the change in pressure due to the motion is only half as great as that obtained on p. 545 .
In that investigation the pressure was assumed to be equal to the energy density , whethel the surface was at rest or in ITS ON ITS 551 motion , whereas it appears , if the following luode of treatment is correct , that the pressure on a radiating surface moving forward is only of the energy density of the radiation emitted .
Let us suppose that surface , a full radiator , is moying with velocity towards a full absorber , which , with the surroundings , we will suppose at A. Consider for simplicity a parallel pencil issuing normal from A with velocity towards B. Let the energy density in the stream from A be when A is at rest , and when it is moving .
Let the on A be when it is at rest , and when it is moving .
When moying , A is emitting a of momentum per second and this momentum ultimately falls on B. Let A start radiating and moying at the same instant ; let it lnove a distance towards , and then let it stop adiating and moving .
It emits momentum per second for a time and therefore emits total momentum .
Since is at rest , the pressure on it , the momentum which it receives per second , is .
But since A is following up the stream sent out , does not receive through a period as long as , but for a time less by .
If we assume that the total momentum received by is equal to the total sent out by , we have , or .
To find in terms of we must make some assumption as to the effect of the motion on the radiation emitted .
In the paper I have assumed that the mitting sul.face converts the same amount of its internal en ergy per second into radiant energy as when it is at rest , but that of the energy of motion of the radiating lnass is also converted into radiant energy .
Since the radiation emitted in one second is contained in length , we have whence .
The same result is obtained if we assume that the amplitude of the emitted waves is the same whether the surface is moving or not , and that the energy density is inyersely as the square of the waye-length for giyen amplitude .
We have , therefore , if the above application of the equality of action and reaction is justified , In a similar way we can find the effect of motion of an absorber on the pressure against it due to the incident radiation .
PROFESSOR T. H. POYNTING ON ) IATION IN SOLAR I. Let a stream ) energy density be incident on a fully absorbing surface moving towards the source with velocity .
Let the surface be at , so as to obtain the effect of the incident radiation only .
When the surface is at rest , we may regard the as bringing up momentum per second , or as containing momentum of density brought up velocity to it .
If the surface is moving towards the source , it takes up in one second the momentum in length , or receives , and the pressnre it is ) is easy t that when perfect reflector is moving , the pressure upon it is ltel e to Tn the paper , the case of a full in an enclosure at zero has alone been considered , so that the ecting factor is or .
when the motion is at to the lin of radiation .
Hence the forces obtained in the paper when the factor was are all double those obtained with the factor now given .
The process of drawing in small particles to the sun is correspondingly lengthened out .
It is , rhaps , worth noting that the motion of a body round the sun produces a small aberration effect .
If the body is a sphere , the sunlight does not fall on the hemisphere directly under the sun , but on one turned round through an angle The pressure of the radiation , though still straight from the sun , does not act through the centre but through a point radius of sphere in front of the centre .
Thus , in the case of the earth , it will tend to stop the rotation .
But the effect is so minute that if present conditions as to distance and radiation were maintained , it would take something of the orcler of years to stop the whole of the rotation .
]

