Some Observations on the Migration of Birds .
By the late Edward Jenner , M.D. F.R.S. ; with an Introductory Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. By the Rev. G. C. Jenner .
Read November 27 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 11 .
] The author 's intention in this paper is not to give a general history of the migration of birds , but to adduce some hitherto unnoticed facts respecting the causes which excite the bird at certain seasons of the year to quit one country for another .
Among these the most prominent are certain changes in the generative organs , and the necessity of a climate or country where they can be better accommodated with succours for their infant brood than in that from which they depart .
He also adduces facts to prove that their departure from this country is not in consequence of change of temperature or scarcity of food , but the result of the accomplishment of their errand , namely , the incubation and rearing their young .
The author then offers some remarks on the winter birds of passage , tending to show that they quit this country in spring in quest of a situation better adapted to their intended purpose , and that they are actuated by the same impulse in leaving this country that causes the spring birds to come to it , and not by want of food .
That the emigration of the winter birds is less complete than that of the spring migrators , and that some species , especially the wild duck and woodpigeon , breed here .
Redwings and fieldfares appear to be the most regular and uniform in their appearance and disappearance , and never seem to risk the trial of incubation here .
Dr. Jenner remarks , that in severe and long-continued frosts , birds often quit the country through want of food , but that they return upon the approach of more temperate weather , which is announced by their reappearance .
The arrival of water birds , on the contrary , forebodes the approach of intense frost .
The author then offers some observations on the singing of birds , and details some additional facts and particulars respecting the different sizes of the generative organs of birds , as they appear at different seasons of the year .

