30 On the Supposed Extracellidar Photosynthesis of Carbon Dioxide by Chlorophyll .
By Alfred J. Ewart , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. , F.L.S. ( Communicated by Professor J. Bretland Farmer , F.R.S. Received October 11 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1907 .
) In two recent papers , Usher and Priestley have brought forward evidence to show that chlorophyll is able to assimilate carbon dioxide and produce formaldehyde outside the plant , and that hydroxyl is the other product and is decomposed into water and free oxygen in the presence of a particular ferment .
It is , unfortunately , necessary to point out that their work is to some extent vitiated by certain oversights and by one serious inaccuracy .
In their first paper* they confirm Bach 's statement that formaldehyde is produced when light acts on a solution of uranium in the presence of carbon dioxide and water , although formic acid is much more abundant .
In a later paperf they contradict this result , stating that formic acid alone is present and no formaldehyde , thus confirming Euler'sJ criticism of Bach 's results .
Usher and Priestley consider that formaldehyde is an intermediate product , but bring forward no satisfactory proof .
Their most striking experiment on extracellular photosynthesis is that made by painting a solution of chlorophyll on gelatine films and exposing them to light in the presence of carbon dioxide .
The chlorophyll was bleached , which Usher and Priestley consider to be due to the formation of hydrogen peroxide , being apparently unaware of the fact that chlorophyll is bleached by sunlight in the presence of ordinary free oxygen or in air deprived of all carbon dioxide , and that the absence of hydrogen peroxide from living cells has been definitely established in a number of cases .
S In regard to the apparent detection of formaldehyde in the gelatine films , this is not surprising , because they contained in all probability an " aldehyde " substance before the chlorophyll was painted over them , and further show the same amount whether the films are exposed to light in the presence or absence of carbon dioxide .
All the forms of French leaf gelatine ( Coignet 's ) of cooking ( transparent and opaque ) , Nelson 's , and of impure commercial gelatine turn pink in the presence of a decolorised solution of rosaniline , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 369 .
t Loc .
cit. , B , vol. 78 , p. 368 .
J ' Ber .
d. Deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, ' 1904 , vol. 37 , p. 3415 .
S Cf .
Pfeifer 's 'Physiology , ' Eng. edit .
, vol. 1 , pp. 545\#151 ; 546 .
Supposed Extracellular Photosynthesis Carbon Dioxide , etc. 31 with or without gentle warming , and it is on this reaction that Usher and Priestley mainly rely .
The best mode of obtaining the reaction is to soak the gelatine in water , melt , cool , and then pour on a little of the decolorised rosaniline , when a pink colour appears near the surface of the gelatine , even if an excess of sulphur dioxide is present .
It must , however , be remembered that the same reaction is given by acetaldehyde , and possibly by other aldehydes also .
Hence , possibly , may arise the fact observed by Usher and Priestley that the methyleneaniline obtained from the distillate from the gelatine had a slightly different melting point to that of the pure substance.* Even prolonged soaking and washing in water does not remove from the gelatine its power of assuming a pink or violet-pink colour with decolorised rosaniline , and it is quite evident that this oversight renders Usher and Priestley 's method valueless .
Repeating their experiments , however , there appeared to be a slight but distinct increase in the amount of " aldehyde " after the chlorophyll on the film had been bleached by exposure to sunlight , but quantitative estimation was not possible , and the same increase appeared to be shown by films exposed to light in the absence of carbon dioxide .
Usher and Priestley state that chlorophyll films on water also produce formaldehyde when exposed to light in the presence of carbon dioxide .
I find this method extremely difficult to apply , and have not been able to obtain more than a suggestion of the possibility of the presence of formaldehyde in the subnatant water by the magenta test , and the presence or absence of carbon dioxide appeared to be immaterial .
Hence a trace of formaldehyde might have been present in the original chlorophyll , the green colour of which masked the test when first applied .
Conclusive results were , however , obtained by using the paler bases of Vallisneria leaves .
These showed no trace of formaldehyde when freshly examined , whether killed by heat , chloroform , or ether , but developed a strong pink coloration when placed in decolorised magenta after eight hours ' exposure to sunlight .
All green parts gave similar results , although wherever a tissue is dark green it is difficult to be sure of the absence of a trace ot formaldehyde in the original material .
Owing to the poisonous character ot this substance , however , the amount originally present could not be large .
After exposure to light , leaves of give the reaction rather better than leaves of Elodea and shoots of Char a. In the case of grass and other leaves , they must either be crushed or chopped after bleaching in sunlight , or the epidermis removed in order to allow the reagent to penetrate , otherwise the pink colour is only produced at the cut edges of the leaf .
* Usher and Priestley , p. 320 .
Dr. A. J. .
Ewart .
Supposed Extracellular [ Oct. 11 , The chloroplastids in the cells , after exposure and testing , show mostly a strong violet tinge when examined , but a slight tinge can usually be distinguished in the protoplasm , so that apparently the formaldehyde diffuses somewhat from the chloroplastids to the protoplasm , and , further , is not formed in all the chloroplastids even of one and the same cell .
Furthermore , precisely the same production of " formaldehyde " is shown when the green tissues are exposed to light in an atmosphere free from carbon dioxide .
It might be suggested that possibly a post-m production of carbon dioxide took place .
Accordingly , leaves of Vallisneria , and grasses killed by chloroform , ether , and heat were enclosed in vessels on clean strips of glass and kept in darkness for two and for 12 hours .
The vessel contained a solution of caustic soda , and half of the inner wall was lined by a sheet of asbestos soaked in caustic soda .
On then exposing to light until the leaves were nearly or completely bleached , all of them without exception developed a pink coloration with decolorised magenta , and the colour was as strong as that developed in the presence of carbon dioxide .
In similar fresh leaves no formaldehyde whatever could be detected .
It is evident , therefore , that Usher and Priestley have misinterpreted the facts , and that chlorophyll , when exposed to light in the presence or absence of carbon dioxide , yields an aldehyde , presumably formaldehyde , merely as a decomposition product .
Interesting and suggestive as this fact may be , it affords no proof that formaldehyde is a product of photosynthesis , or that the latter can take place outside the living cell .
The idea has more than once been put forward that chlorophyll itself is a product of photosynthesis , and that carbohydrates are formed by molecular changes and rearrangements in it taking place under the action and with the aid of light energy .
On examining parts of leaves growing in nature , but which had become bleached or discoloured , traces of formaldehyde appeared to be present in many cases , whether examined in the early morning or evening , and presumably in these cases also the aldehyde results from the decomposition of the chlorophyll .
Usher and Priestley state that on floating the white petals of Wallacei on water in the presence of carbon dioxide and sunlight , and after painting the petals with chlorophyll , the plastids in the cells developed starch grains , and they consider this to prove an extracellular decomposition of carbon dioxide outside the petals .
In any case it would only prove that the traces of formaldehyde produced by the decomposition of the chlorophyll can be synthesised by the plastids to carbohydrate , and the experiment is open to two very serious objections .
Firstly , the petals are cuticularised , and formaldehyde diffuses only very slowly through cuticle , even when comparatively 1907 .
] Photosynthesis of Carbon Dioxide by Chlorophyll .
thin .
Secondly , except in the ease of Composite !
the plastids of most white petals have faint but distinct traces of chlorophyll , either along the veins or in all parts .
By Saxifraga Wallacei , Usher and Priestley presumably mean S. Camposii Boiss , living petals of which plant are not procurable in Melbourne , but they would find it worth while to examine the petals for traces of chlorophyll or for a feeble power of independent photosynthesis in parts at least .
That this explanation is the correct one is shown by the fact that the petals formed starch in a 0'001-per-cent , solution of formaldehyde when exposed to light , but not in darkness , whereas if the carbohydrate had been derived directly from the formaldehyde , without any photosynthesis of carbon dioxide , it should have been formed both in light and darkness .
An equally strong objection applies to the experiment with which formed starch and gave off oxygen in a 0'02 solution of formic acid in light , but not in darkness , the explanation being that the formic acid decomposed and the carbon dioxide produced was assimilated .
Hydroxyl and Peroxidase or Catalase Enzymes .
No conclusive proof has been brought forward to show that living plant cells even contain any appreciable amount of peroxide of hydrogen , and Pfeffer has conclusively shown in many cases , by the study of cells containing oxidisable pigments or chromogens , that no trace of hydroxyl is formed in them at any time .
Russell* explains the action of plant tissues on photographic plates in the dark by assuming that they contain minute traces of hydroxyl , although it is not easy to see how this explanation could apply to a leaf which had been kept dried for 18 months to 3 years and still retained its power of affecting a photographic plate in darkness .
There are many other possible explanations of the action , and hence by itself it affords no proof of the presence of hydroxyl .
The oxidation of certain organic compounds yields hydrogen peroxide as a by-product , but in the living plant , as Loewj* has shown , a catalase enzyme is generally present whose functions may possibly be to prevent the possibility of the accumulation of any hydroxyl , and the existence of such an enzyme was first noted by Schoenheinj .
The presence of a " catalase " enzyme is , however , no proof that a plant contains or produces hydrogen peroxide , for ferments have been isolated from many plants to which they cannot be of any value ( rennet and diastase ferments in fungi ) , or have a very doubtful one ( peptic enzymes in latex ) .
Usher and Priestley do not mention Loew 's work , and possibly were * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 385 .
t Loew , ' U.S. Dept. Agric .
Report , ' 68 , 1901 .
+ ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem. , ' vol._89 , 1863 .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. D 34 Dr. A. J. Ewart .
Supposed Extracellular [ Oct. 11 , not aware of its existence , for Loew discusses the properties , forms , and distribution of his catalase very fully .
The Evolution of Oxygen .
By smearing gelatine chlorophyll films with a catalase enzyme , Usher and Priestley obtained an evolution of oxygen in the presence of carbon dioxide and light .
I have not been able to obtain any satisfactory proof of this fact , and must point out that gelatine films smeared over with an oily film retain oxygen for some time and only give it off slowly in an atmosphere of nitrogen .
After covering with chlorophyll and a catalase juice from Vallisneria , the films were kept in an atmosphere of nitrogen over mercury , a little carbon dioxide added and , after exposure to light , the gas was analysed in a Bonnier-Mangin apparatus .
Barely measurable traces of oxygen were present in some cases , but hardly more than can be explained on the above assumption , and the amount of carbon dioxide underwent no appreciable diminution , but if anything a slight increase .
Further , if the films were kept over night in an atmosphere of nitrogen in the presence of a piece of pyrogallol-potash paper subsequently drawn out by a thread , on adding carbon dioxide next day and exposing to light no trace of oxygen was found , although the films at the commencement of the exposure appeared to be green and normal .
Apparently , therefore , the decomposition of chlorophyll on exposure to light and the resultant production of aldehyde is not accompanied by any appreciable evolution of free oxygen .
Further , no hydroxyl could be detected in any of the films by testing with coloured cell sap and cyanin .
FTor was the pink coloration produced on testing the films with decolorised magenta lessened by boiling the gelatine previously to testing , which should have been the case had any hydroxyl been present .
Dead cells of Elodea and Vallisneria were also tested by the bacterium methods for an evolution of oxygen , but without effect , using pure aerobic forms .
If the green cells had been exposed to strong light for some hours until bleached and were then tested , it was found that the bacteria ceased to move or only moved very slowly in their immediate neighbourhood , even when the surrounding medium was fully supplied with oxygen .
After the leaves had been boiled in dilute hydroxyl and soaked in cold water for a day , they showed the usual chemotropic attraction to aerobic bacteria in the presence of oxygen , due to the exudation of chemotropic substances .
It is evident , therefore , that the aldehyde produced by the decomposition of the chlorophyll is able to prevent the detection of the presence of oxygen by the bacterium method , a danger which has not previously occurred to myself or 1907 .
] Photosynthesis of Carbon Dioxide by Chlorophyll .
35 to any previous worker with this method .
This fact takes away all decisive value from the negative observations of Kny* and of Czapekf in regard to the absence of any power of evolving oxygen from isolated droplets of chlorophyll or from droplets imbedded in foreign protoplasm when tested by the bacterium method .
The bacterium method must , therefore , be applied with great caution to chlorophyllous cells which have been exposed to strong light when in an abnormal , depressed , or dying condition .
The only observations which seem to support those of Usher and Priestley , and show that an evolution of oxygen is possible when chlorophyll is exposed to sunlight apart from living protoplasm , are those of Molisch , !
who found by the aid of luminous bacteria that chloroplastids from dried dead cells were able to evolve oxygen .
Since , however , Molisch with the same means was unable under any circumstances to detect any evolution of oxygen from healthy cells rich in etiolin , but free from chlorophyll , it is evident that this method of Beyerinck 's is not always reliable .
The fact that chloroplastids may remain capable of photosynthesis outside the cell says nothing , for they do not retain this power long , whether kept in light or darkness , and have a photoplasmic basis .
Nevertheless , it is quite possible that some of the cases of partial or complete assimilatory inhibitionS observed by me may result from an interference with the later processes of polymerisation , such interference rapidly reacting on the primary stages of photosynthesis .
This is very probably the case when the accumulation of the products of photosynthesis increasingly retards further production .
Photosynthesis is , however , certainly not the simple physico-chemical process that Usher and Priestley imagine it to be , but involves vital activity and control in all its stages .
It is , in fact , difficult to see how a simultaneous production of formaldehyde and hydroxyl could be possible in films exposed to sunlight , for as Geisou|| has shown , hydroxyl reacts with neutral or acid solutions of formaldehyde , forming carbon dioxide , water , and hydrogen .
This reaction is only shown in a test-tube on warming , but if a Vallisnericc leaf which has accumulated formaldehyde is soaked in hydroxyl and exposed to strong sunlight or warmed , the formaldehyde disappears .
Boiling with hydroxyl does not , however , remove from gelatine its power of producing a pink colour with decolorised magenta .
Hence its " aldehyde " constituent is not formaldehyde , a fact which Dr. Pothero has confirmed by distillation tests .
* Kny , ' Ber .
d. Bot. Ges .
, ' 1897 , vol. 15 , p. 388 .
t Czapek , ' Ber .
d. Bot. Ges .
, ' 1902 , vol. 20 , p. ( 44 ) .
t ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1904 , vol. 62 , I , p. 1 .
S 'Linn .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1896 , vol. 31 , pp. 429 , 367 .
|| 'Ber .
d. D. Chem. Ges .
, ' 1904 , vol. 37 , p. 515 .
36 Supposed Extracellular Photosynthesis of Carbon Dioxide , etc. Usher and Priestley have , therefore , not founded the formaldehyde hypothesis upon any surer basis than had been already established for it by Pollacci* and by Curtius and Eeinke , f the only established facts being that chlorophyll decomposes when exposed to light in the presence of oxygen and in the presence or absence of carbon dioxide , and that one of the products of its decomposition is formaldehyde .
This production of formaldehyde does not , however , necessarily represent the primary stage in photosynthesis , but is either one of the later ones or a more or less accidental phenomenon shown either in abnormal or dead chlorophyllous cells and tissues or by extracted chlorophyll .
In any case we have as yet no satisfactory proof that the production of formaldehyde in dead cells or extracted chlorophyll when exposed to light is accompanied either by a decomposition of carbon dioxide or by a production of oxygen or hydroxyl .
* ' Atti d. Instit .
Bot. Pavia , ' 1900 , p. 45 ; 1902 , p. 8 ; and 1904 .
t ' Ber .
d. Bot. Ges .
, ' 1897 , vol. 15 , p. 201 .

