148 Dr. Y. Harley .
The Influence of Intra-Venous [ June 7 , 4 ft. per mile ; and at the outlet of Lake Ontario , 5 ft. per mile ; all in a north-eastward direction .
Taking the amount of movement in each district as representing also the proportional measure of time , then calculations can be made upon several of the beaches , and in terms of the age of Niagara their antiquity can be inferred .
The importance of the computations in this paper is that they support the correctness of the calculated age of the Falls .
In the application of these results it appears that the rate of terrestrial uplift in the Niagara district is about L25 ft. a century ; 2 ft. east of Lake Huron , and 2'5 ft. at the outlet of Lake Ontario .
Here was found the first long looked-for indication of the rate of uplift .
13 .
The Relation of Niagara Falls to Geological Time.\#151 ; From the study of the deserted beaches , it appears that the commencement of the lake epoch was as long before the birth of Niagara Falls as the Falls are old , so that the beginning of the lake age was probably 64,000 years ago , or perhaps even 80,000 years .
Against this conjecture we have as yet no proof .
On the other hand , some suppose the lakes to have been held in by glacial dams , continuing for long episodes at the same level , and by the withdrawal of the glaciers the waters were lowered in addition to the terrestrial deformation .
With this assumption , the retreating ice continued until the end of the Iroquois episode , or from our computations until 14,000 years ago .
But here we need much more investigation .
The present paper is merely a contribution in a field of work in America , in which only a few workers have so far contributed the detailed labours upon which this study is built .
14 .
The Fnd of the Falls.\#151 ; From the rate of terrestrial elevation and the rate of recession of the Falls , it appears that if the movements continue as they have been progressing , then before the Falls shall have retreated to Lake Erie , the Niagara outlet will have been deserted , and the waters of the upper lakes will discharge by way of Chicago into the Mississippi drainage , a change analogous to the turning of the Huron waters into the Erie valley from the Ottawa outlet .
This change might be expected 7,000\#151 ; 8,000 years hence .
IV .
" The Influence of Intra-Venous Injection of Sugar on the Gases of the Blood .
" By Vaughan Harley , M.D. , Teacher of Chemical Pathology , University College , London , Grocer Research Scholar .
Communicated by George Harley , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 9 , 1894 .
In a paper on " The Effects and Chemical Changes of Sugar injected into a Vein " *I showed that when grape sugar is injected * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1893 .
1894 .
] Injection of Sugar on the Gases of Blood .
into the jugular vein of a dog it causes an augmentation in the quantity of lactic acid in the circulation , the quantity of the acid steadily increasing until it reaches its maximum in about three hours after the injection .
It then gradually , hour by hour , decreases , until in about six hours it returns to the normal amount .
The question as to the base with which the lactic acid combines to form a lactate is , however , still unsettled .
The results of Walter's* experiments , in conjunction with the often-noticed fact that ammonia is increased in the urine of diabetes , led me to imagine that the lactic acid combined with ammonia , until I found that the breaking up of sugar in the organism has no influence whatsoever on the amiount of ammonia in the blood , and consequently it cannot be the base .
It then appeared to me probable that the lactic acid had combined with the bases of carbonates in the blood , having driven out the carbonic acid from its compound .
In order to try and settle this point , I estimated the quantity of carbonic acid in the blood under different conditions .
The series of experiments I am now about to record were performed in the Physiological Institute at Leipzig , and I wish to express my gratitude to Professor C. Ludwig for the kind assistance he gave me in the matter .
The experiments , which wei*e made on dogs , were conducted in the same manner as in my previous researches , above alluded to , except that blood was withdrawn only three times from each dog .
In order to obtain a normal standard , the first specimen of blood wTas taken before the sugar was injected , the second was withdrawn in an hour , and the third in from three to five hours after the intra-venous injection of the sugar .
In order that the composition of the blood might be altered as little as possible by the bleeding , only 30 c.c. of blood was collected each time .
In all cases the blood was collected under mercury from the carotid artery .
The gases were pumped from the blood by means of a Ludwig mercurial pump , and analysed by Bunsen 's method .
The quantities of gases found were calculated at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. of mercury , and are expressed in volumes per cent. Before alluding to the changes found in the blood gases , I will briefly give , in a tabular form , the results obtained from each experiment : * Walter , 'Arch .
Exper .
Path .
u. Pliarm .
, ' vol. 7 , p. 158 , 1877 .
150 Dr. Y. Harley .
The Influence oIntra-Venous [ June 7 , Experiment 1 .
Weight of Condition .
Quantity injected of Volumes per cent , at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. Hg .
animal .
Su 8 gar , in ; rams .
NaCl solution .
Carbonic acid .
Oxygen .
kilos .
7 Before sugar injection ... 1 hour after . .
5 hours after. .
total .
60 per kilo .
8 *56 c.c. 120 37 -380 27 -006 34-357 22-280 17 -071 14 -886 The only nerve symptoms after the sugar injection were manifested in vomiting and muscular tremors .
These were not accompanied by coma or any other symptom .
The quantity of carbonic acid found in the standard specimen of blood was 37"380 per cent. , whereas , in that taken an hour after the sugar injection it was only 27"006 per cent. , that is to say , a diminution of 10374 per cent , in the amount of carbonic acid followed upon the intra-venous injection of the sugar , while the blood withdrawn five hours later contained 34'357 per cent , of carbonic acid , this being only 3"023 per cent , less than that in the standard blood .
The carbonic acid , thus tending to return to the normal amount , showed that the influence of the sugar on the carbonic acid in the blood is merely temporary .
The quantity of oxygen in the standard blood was found to be 22'280 per cent. An hour after the sugar injection it had fallen to 17'071 per cent. , thus giving a diminution of 5"209 per cent. Five hours later it was still further decreased , being only 14'886 per cent. Consequently , in this respect the effect of the sugar on the oxygen is different from that upon the carbonic acid .
Experiment 2 .
Weight of animal .
Condition .
Quantity injected of Volumes per cent , in 0 ' C. and 760 mm. Hg .
Sugar , in grams .
NaCl solution .
Carbonic acid .
Oxygen .
kilos .
5 Before sugar injection ... 1 hour after . .
4J hours after .
total .
50 per kilo .
10 c.c. 100 38-541 28-042 28 -926 19 -902 7-220 13 -968 18\lt ; )4 J Injection of Sugar on the Gases of the Blood .
The nerve symptoms following the injection of the sugai weie greater in this case .
The vomiting and tremors of the limbs were followed by well-marked epileptic fits , which , an hour later , were succeeded by a semi-comatose condition .
Although the animal could still be roused , it remained in a sleepy condition up to the third bleeding , when it was killed .
^ _ The percentage of carbonic acid fell in the first hour after the sugar injection , while the animal was in a drowsy condition , from 38-541 to 28-042 .
This gives a diminution of carbonic acid of 10-499 per cent. Four and a half hours after the injection the carbonic acid had risen to 28-926 per cent. That is to say , it was 9 615 per cent , less than the quantity found in the standard blood .
The oxygen which originally stood at 19*902 per cent , fell , in the first hour , to 7*220 per cent. ; therefore it was 12-682 per cent , less than the normal amount .
In four and a half hours after the sugar injection it increased to 13"968 per cent. , which is only o 934 pei cent , less than the original quantity found .
... .
, Thus it appears in this case there was a greater diminution m both the carbonic acid and oxygen of the blood during the first hour than in the former experiment ; a result corresponding with the far greater nerve disturbances , and no doubt due , as stated in my former paper , to a larger percentage of sugar to bodily weight having been injected iuto the circulation .
It was found in this case that the caibonic acid was , four and a half hours after the injection of the sugar , while the animal was in a semi-comatose state , almost as low as duing the fiist hour .
The oxygen had by this time , on the other hand , markedly increased in quantity .
These results having been obtained , it was decided to withdraw the third portion of blood somewhat earlier after the sugar injection than in the foregoing cases .
Experiment 3 .
1 1 Weight of animal .
Condition .
Quantity injected of Volumes per cent , at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. Hg .
Sugar , in grams .
NaCl 1 solution .
Carbonic acid .
Oxygen .
kilos .
23 Before sugar injection . . .
1 hour after . .
3 hours after. .
total .
240 per kilo .
10 *435 c.c. 480 42 *260 33*075 38 *000 10*217 14*569 Here the nervous symptoms which showed themselves in the form of vomiting , trembling , and two epileptic attacks were followed by 152 Dr. Y. Harley .
The Influence of Intra- Venous [ June 7 , drowsiness , which lasted until after the second bleeding .
The drowsiness in this case passed off before the third bleeding .
In the standard specimen of blood the carbonic acid was 42 260 per cent. , and an hour after the intra-venous injection of the sugar it fell to 33-075 per cent. , being a decrease of 9-185 per cent. The third portion of blood taken in three hours , that is to say after the drowsiness had passed off , was found to contain 38-000 per cent , of carbonic acid , a decrease from the normal of 4*260 per cent. The specimen of oxygen from the normal blood was lost .
The quantity found an hour after was 10"217 per cent. , and three hours .after the sugar injection it had increased to 14'569 per cent. Ihe results of this experiment , as far as they go , correspond very closely with those of Experiment 1 ; in which there was likewise only a very slight nervous disturbance .
Experiment 4 .
Weight of animal .
Condition .
Quantity injected of Volumes per cent , at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. Hg .
Sugar , in grams .
FaCl solution .
Carbonic acid .
Oxygen .
kilos .
20-5 Before sugar injection. . . .
1 hour after . .
3 hours after. .
total .
230 per kilo .
11.2 c.c. 460 39 *520 32 -140 24-725 !
16 -025 15-561 17 -767 Although this dog had vomiting and marked tremor of the limbs there were no epileptic seizures .
Sleepiness , however , came on later , and was marked at the time of the third bleeding .
In the first specimen of blood the quantity of carbonic acid was 39"520 per cent. , and it diminished during the first hour after the sugar injection to 32 " 140 per cent. , being a decrease of 7-380 per cent. Three hours after the injection of the sugar , the carbonic acid fell still further , it being then only 27 " 725 per cent. , that is to say 14-795 per cent , less than the original amount .
The oxygen , which at the beginning was 16"025 per cent. , decreased during the first hour to 15"561 per cent. , being a loss of 0"464 per cent. By the third hour it again rose to 17"767 per cent. , that being 1"742 per cent , more than was found in the normal blood .
As in Experiment 2 , this dog had become semi-comatose by the third bleeding , the carbonic acid being then even less than what it was during the first hour .
1894 .
] Injection of Sugar on the Gases of the Blood .
158 Having now briefly given the results met with in each separate experiment , I will now consider the results as a whole .
In the first place , we see there was a decrease in the quantity of carbonic acid in all the different specimens of blood during the first hour after the sugar was injected , the diminutions being 10'374 , 10*499 , 9*185 , and 7*380 per cent. In the second place , the blood , taken five hours after the sugar was injected , showed a decrease of 3*023 and 9*615 per cent , ( in Experiments 1 and 2 ) ; while after three hours there was a decrease of 4*260 per cent , ( in Experiment 3 ) .
In all the three cases it had therefore shown , during the later hours , a more or less marked tendency to return to the normal amount .
In Experiment 4 the blood at the third hour contained 14*795 per cent , less carbonic acid than the normal blood , and 4*415 per cent , less than what it contained at the first hour .
This discrepancy may be due to the fact that a greater percentage of sugar was injected , and the dog was in consequence rendered more comatose .
This view seems the more likely , as in Experiment 2 , when the dog was semi-comatose , the carbonic acid was markedly diminished at the fifth hour.* These united results support the view that the lactic acid derived from the splitting up of the sugar in the animal body drives off the carbonic acid from the sodium salts and replaces it .
This view is still further supported by the fact that the quantity of carbonic acid in the blood withdrawn at the different periods after the sugar injection , varied in the same manner as the quantity of lactic acid had been found to do .
In both cases during the first hour after the sugar injection , one finds larger quantities than during the later hours .
Whether the percentage decrease in the amount of the carbonic acid hinders its elimination by the lungs or not will depend upon how much power the combined lactic acid has of hindering the blood from taking up the carbonic acid from the tissues and the tension of the existing gas .
This point would be ascertained by estimating the quantity of carbonic acid expired after the sugar injection .
The experiments I have already published !
" on this point show that there is no decrease in the amount of carbonic acid expired from an animal immediately after sugar has been injected into its circulation .
In fact there was an actual increase of carbonic acid in all but one easej during the first hour .
* " Small dogs , " as I stated in my former paper , " are relatively much more susceptible than large ones to the effect of sugar injection .
" t Vaughan Harley , " Influence of Sugar in the Circulation on the Respiratory Gases , " ' Journal of Physiol. , ' vol. 15 , p. 139 , 1893 .
I Ibid. , Exp. 9 , p. 147 .
154 The Influence of Intra-Venous Injection of Sugar .
[ June 7 , There was a marked decrease of carbonic acid during the later hours in those cases which suffered from coma .
It would thus seem that in those cases when there are no nervous symptoms caused by the intra-venous injection of sugar , while the quantity of lactic acid is at its highest and the quantity of carbonic acid in the blood is at its lowest , more carbonic acid is expired than before the injection of the sugar .
An explanation to this fact , if it really exists , is at the present moment impossible .
In order to settle this point it would be necessary in the same animal to make all the analyses at the same time ; which would be impossible without an exceptionally large dog , as the quantity of blood needed would cause of itself changes in the metabolism .
In the next place the changes met with in the quantity of oxygen in the blood are still more surprising , as there is no known reason why hmmoglobin should not take up the usual amount of oxygen as it does in health after the intra-venous injection of sugar .
In all of the experiments the quantity of oxygen is seen to have been markedly diminished during the first hour after the sugar injection .
In three of them it fell 0'464 , 3*209 , and I2'682 per cent , below the normal standard during the first hour .
This result can be partially explained by the influence of the endosmotic flow of the juices of the tissues into the circulating blood , which is known to occur when the quantity of sugar in the blood is increased .
For in a series of similar experiments Brasol* found that during the first five minutes after the injection of sugar the proteids of the serum were reduced to even below one half of their previous amount , while one or two hours after the injection the proteids had , as a rule , returned to the normal amount .
During the third and fifth hours after the sugar injection it will be ' noticed that the quantity of oxygen in the arterial blood was 14,886 , .
13 968 , 14*569 , and 17*767 per cent. ; that is to say the quantity that is usually found in venous blood .
The diminution in the quantity of oxygen , even from three to five-hours after the sugar injection , cannot therefore be explained on a dilution theory .
* Brasol .
Du Bois-Kejmond 's ' Arcliir .
, ' 1884 .

