II .
" Note on the Magnetic Mediumn .
" By Prof. A. W. WILLIAMSON .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received March 15 , 1855 .
In a letter to Mr. Faraday recently published in the Philosophical Magazine , Dr. Tyndall brings forward some important considerations on the subject of magnetic philosophy .
It has been known for some time that the phenomena of dia- .
magnetism may be produced artificially in bodies which are usually * Philosophical Transactions , 1850 , p. 789 , t Ibid. 1852 , p. 438 .
cons lered magnetic .
For this purpose it is only necessary to plunge the magnetic body into a yielding medium more magnetic than itself .
When thus exposed to the action of a magnet it recedes from the poles , because the volume of the medium which it displaces is more powerfully attracted .
This fact naturally suggested the idea , that all repulsion by the magnet might be owing to the attraction exercised on the medium being stronger than that on the body repelled ; -just as balloons are driven upwards by the superior weight of the displaced volume of air .
And as phenomena of diamagnetism are observed in a so-called vacuum , it was thought that some " magnetic medium " might be present there .
I do not purpose on this occasion to enter upon the general question of the evidence which may be adduced for or against this important conclusion ; for it could only be proved satisfactorily by considerations including phenomena of the most varied kind , such as electricity , light , chemical action , &amp;c. , to which it must necessarily apply .
But it might be disproved by any one well-understood fact contradictory to it .
Now it appears to me , that the facts adduced by Dr. Tyndall are not inconsistent with the notion of a magnetic medium , but follow naturally from it ; and that his argument involves a tacit assumption foreign to the theory under consideration .
The first fact adduced is , that compression increases the attraction of magnetic bodies , and the repulsion of diamagnetic bodies by the magnet , in the direction of the line of compression .
Now it is evident , that a variation of pressure on a number of particles surrounded by a magnetic medium may alter the attraction of the mass by a magnet in two ways ; -first , by altering the density of the matter* ; secondly , by altering the density of the medium .
In a cubical mass of carbonate of iron the material particles are more magnetic than the medium which they displace , and the force with which it is attracted is proportional to this excess .
If it becomes more magnetic by compression , we must conclude that the loss of magnetic medium from its interstices is more than supplied by the magnetic matter which takes its place .
Carbonate of lime is less magnetic than the quantity of medium which its particles displace , and when these particles are brought closer together by pressure , with diminution of the intervening spaces occupied by the medium , the mass becomes more diamagnetic , because a certain quantity of the magnetic medium is thus replaced by the less magnetic matter .
Dr. Tyndall seems to have assumed , that on the compression of an aggregate of particles of a diamagnetic substance , the medium is not displaced by the particles in their change of position ; in which case his conclusion , that compression must increase the magnetic functions of every substance , would no doubt follow from the notion of a magnetic medium .
The second fact adduced differs chiefly in form from the one just considered .
Crystals of carbonate of iron are attracted most strongly by a magnet acting in the direction of the crystallographic axis .
Crystals of carbonate of lime , possessing the same form , are most strongly repelled in the direction of the same axis .
In this direction the functions of the matter predominate more over those of the medium than in other directions of the crystal ; so that with carbonate of iron , we have the strongest magnetism ; with carbonate of lime , the strongest diamagnetism in this axis .
One crystal consists of magnetic medium with strongly magnetic matter ; the other consists of the medium with matter of very slight magnetic force .
The crystallographic axis is in both crystals the direction in which the function of matter predominates most strongly over that of the medium : so that in the iron salt-it is the most magnetic ; in the lime salt the feeblest magnetic direction in the crystal .

