[ 557 ] XXI .
Contributions to the Minute Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland of Tog .
By E. Cresswell Baber , M.B. Loud .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , Received December 9 , 1875 , \#151 ; Read January 27 , 1876 .
The thyroid gland is one of those organs , commonly known by the name of ductless or blood-glands , about which our knowledge is still in a very unsatisfactory condition .
The function of this body is quite unknown , and its minute structure is still involved in some obscurity* .
Besults of previous Investigations.\#151 ; The present state of our knowledge of the structure of this organ may be gathered from the writings of TIenle ( ' Handbuch der syste-matischen Anatomy des Menschen , ' 1866 , vol. ii .
pp. 535-541 ) , Kolliker ( 'Handbuch der Gewebelehre , ' 5th ed. 1867 , pp. 480-482 ) , Verson ( Stricker 's 'Human and Comparative Histology , ' Sydenham Society 's translation by H. Power , vol. i. pp. 370-372 ) , and Frey ( Das Mikroskop , 4th ed. 1871 , pp. 232 \amp ; 283 ) .
According to these authors the thyroid gland consists of numerous vesicles , embedded in , and supported by , a stroma or framework of connective tissue containing bloodvessels , nerves , and lymphatics .
The Stroma.\#151 ; The stroma is directly continuous with the capsule of connective tissue investing the gland , from which strong trabeculae pass inwards , dividing the gland into lobes , and from these , again , finer septa originate , which subdivide the lobes into lobules ( .Trusenkorner , Kolliker ) .
" In this way the thyroid gland of man is divided into primary and secondary segments , the line of division between which is recognizable by slight furrows " ( Verson ) .
The connective tissue lying between the several gland-vesicles is , according to the same author , very sparing in quantity , and sometimes even it is difficult to discover between the walls of contiguous vesicles a few fibres accompanying the capillaries .
Henle finds that the vesicles are partly separated by fine connective-tissue septa , and are partly in direct contact with one another .
" The septa , " he further says , " are not only relatively , but absolutely greater between the small vesicles than between the larger ones , which gives the appearance as if the connective tissue were compressed or displaced by a distension of the vesicles .
" In structure the stroma consists of ordinary connective-tissue fibrils , with fine elastic * On this point the following remark of Henle 's is of interest .
Referring to the ductless glands , he says ( Handbuch d. system .
Anat .
vol. ii .
p. 535):\#151 ; " Of many of these we believe that we know the ultimate elements and their arrangement .
But as long as the function , not only of these elements , but also of the organs themselves , remains an unsolved problem , one cannot but suspect that their anatomical structure contains some hidden secret .
" fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles .
On the surface it also contains fat-cells ( Kolliker ) .
The Gland-vesicles.\#151 ; The gland-vesicles ( , Kolliker ) of the thyroid gland are described as closed globular bodies , consisting of a very fine homogeneous membrane { membrana propria ) lined by a single layer of epithelial cells ( Kolliker , Henle , V:erson ) .
Frey , on the contrary , does not believe in the presence of a membrana propria .
He thinks that the connective-tissue wall of denser texture , when examined with imperfect methods of preparation , may have deceived earlier observers .
Authors differ in their description of the epithelial cells .
Henle describes them as a single layer of flattened cells containing circular nuclei , and resembling a layer of epithelium .
According to Kolliker they are polygonal , finely granular , transparent cells , each with a single nucleus .
Frey , again , alludes to them as flattened , cylindrical , nucleated cells .
Finally , Verson , in opposition to Henle , lays stress on the fact that the cells in the fresh condition are always somewhat higher than broad .
Accurate measurements of the gland-vesicles and of the epithelial cells are given by the different authors , into a consideration of which it is needless to enter here .
The cavity of the vesicle is described as occupied by a clear viscid fluid ( Kolliker and Frey ) slightly tinged with yellow , and containing much albumin ( Kolliker ) .
Henle speaks of the contents as clear , and becoming converted by the action of alcohol into a firm , somewhat shrunken coagulum .
These authors all allude to the occurrence of a colloid material in the vesicles , which they consider a pathological condition .
Kolliker , however , found it in new-born children , and Verson " at an advanced age .
" The Lymphatics.\#151 ; Frey , who is the last observer who has worked at these , gives the following account of them , as quoted by Henle ( cit.):\#151 ; The large lymphatics covering the capsule of the thyroid gland take their origin from a rounded network which surrounds the secondary lobules .
From these there branch off finer arborescent canals for the primary lobules , to surround them with perfect rings or with arches more or less complete .
From these , again , a few finer canals dip down among the individual vesicles and end in blind extremities .
" In ' Das Mikroskop und die mikroskopische Technik , ' 4th edition , 1871 , p. 283 , Frey describes the lymphatics as quoted above by Henle , until he arrives at the statement that " a few finer canals not uncommonly dip down among the individual vesicles .
" He then stops , and does not confirm his statement of their ending in blind extremities .
The object with which the present research was undertaken was a minute investigation of the lymphatics of the thyroid gland of the dog , with a view to rendering more accurate our knowledge of their structure and distribution .
In the course of the investigation , however , I found it necessary to study more carefully the vesicular and inter-vesicular tissue , and was then led to observe certain cells in the latter which have not , as far as I am aware , yet been described .
I shall therefore treat the subjects of this paper under two headings:\#151 ; I. The Lymphatics ; and II .
The Parenchyma .
OF THE THYROID GLAND OF THE DOG .
I. The Lymphatics .
Methods.\#151 ; The methods of investigation adopted were the following , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
Injection with Berlin blue.\#151 ; The thyroid gland of a freshly killed dog was injected in situ with a solution of Berlin blue , by the method of puncture with a subcutaneous syringe .
When the gland was sufficiently injected ( the naked eye appearances it then presented are described below ) , it was removed and hardened , either a. In methylated spirit only , or b. First in Muller 's fluid , and then in methylated spirit .
When sufficiently hard , portions were embedded and stained and mounted in balsam in the usual way .
2 .
Injection with Nitrate of Silver.\#151 ; Fresh thyroid gland of the dog was injected in a similar manner with | per cent , solution of nitrate of silver in water .
The gland was then removed and hardened in alcohol , and portions of it were treated as before .
Throughout this research the thyroid glands examined were those of adult dogs only .
Characters and Distribution.\#151 ; The lymphatics of the thyroid gland , when examined by the above methods , presented the following characters .
1 .
Macroscopic Appearances.\#151 ; The thyroid gland in the dog , as is well known , consists of two separate portions , situate on either side of the trachea and in front of the vertebral column .
On inserting the nozzle of a hypodermic syringe into one of these glands , and injecting Berlin blue solution , the following appearances presented themselves:\#151 ; The whole gland swelled up , and a fine network of injected vessels appeared on the surface of the organ , which could be distinctly seen with a hand-lens .
At the same time lymphatic vessels became injected running from the gland , and these were distributed in the following manner:\#151 ; Several branches came off from the lower and inner extremity of the gland .
These soon joined to form a single vessel , which , running in a direction obliquely downwards and inwards in front of the trachea , entered a small lymphatic gland situate in the median line over about the sixteenth ring of the trachea .
The vessels emerging from the upper part of the thyroid gland , which were larger and more numerous than the preceding , formed a plexus immediately above it ; and from this there came off two principal branches , the one running upwards and inwards over the front of the windpipe , the other taking a course outwards and upwards and terminating in a large lymphatic gland situate under the upper part of the sterno-mastoid .
This gland became partly injected with the Berlin blue .
In size it nearly equalled the thyroid gland itself .
On examining with a hand-lens the surface of a thyroid gland that had been injected in a similar manner with nitrate-of-silver solution , a fine network of lymphatics was also seen , resembling somewhat in shape and distribution those to be afterwards described in the interior of the organ ( Plate 47 .
fig. 3 ) .
2 .
Microscopic Appearances.\#151 ; Before describing these it will be necessary to say a few words with regard to the general structure of the thyroid gland of the dog , as I ME .
E. C. BABEE OjST THE MINUTE ANATOMY have observed it in specimens prepared by the above-mentioned methods , in order to render the descriptions that are about to follow intelligible .
First , with regard to the stroma .
In the dog , as above mentioned , the thyroid gland consists of two separate portions .
Each of these forms apparently a single lobe , which is divided into lobules , more or less distinctly , by processes of connective tissue passing inwards from the surface of the organ , where they are continuous with the connective-tissue capsule surrounding the gland .
These bands of connective tissue run chiefly with the blood-vessels , and gradually diminish in size , till between the individual vesicles it is often impossible to say that there is any stroma present .
On the whole the connective-tissue stroma appears very sparing in quantity in the thyroid gland of the dog .
The Vesicles.\#151 ; Between the different ramifications of the stroma are seen the vesicles with their walls , consisting of a single layer of cells arranged like an epithelium , and usually known as " epithelial cells .
" These commonly present a square or wedge-shaped outline , though their shape varies in different preparations and in different parts of the same specimen .
They are usually higher than broad ( Plate 48 .
figs. 8 , 13 ) ; sometimes , however , they present a more or less flattened appearance , probably the effect of the reagents ( Plate 47 .
fig. 1 ) .
Under certain circumstances these cells present a more or less triangular outline , of which more hereafter .
Their cell-substance is finely granular , and they are each provided with a single spheroidal nucleus .
With regard to the existence or not of a memhranapropria outside the epithelial cells , I am not in a position to make any definite statement .
I may , however , draw attention to the following appearance which I have noticed once or twice in these preparations .
In a vesicle where the epithelial cells are partly deficient a distinctly marked line , which occupies the curved inner aspect of the epithelial layer , is directly continued onwards in the same direction , for a distance of at least two or three cells , beyond the point where the cells cease to be present .
This gives an appearance as if there were a distinct membrane lining the inner aspect ( or summits ) of the epithelial cells , those that are deficient seeming to have become separated from it .
This appearance , however , is probably produced by a layer of hardened secretion adhering to the cells .
As mentioned by Verson ( op .
cit. p. 371 ) , in the dog the walls of the vesicles are frequently seen to be indexed , forming projections into the cavities of the vesicles .
Contents of the Vesicles.\#151 ; The contents of the vesicles consist , in addition to a small quantity of a pellucid substance sometimes present , of a peculiar material which shrinks away from the walls of the vesicle and forms a solid mass in the centre .
In sections stained with picrocarminate of ammonia it appears as a finely granular substance of a more or less bright yellow hue , contrasting with the red colour of the walls of the vesicles .
In specimens coloured with hsematoxylin , on the other hand , it presents the appearance of an opaque , grey , or greyish-violet mass , which is generally uniform , but sometimes finely granular , in appearance .
From a careful examination of sections of the thyroid gland prepared by the above OF THE THYROID GLAND OF THE DOG .
methods , the characters and distribution of the lymphatics within the gland were found to be as follows:\#151 ; Traversing the gland , chiefly in a longitudinal direction , and accompanying the larger blood-vessels and septa of connective tissue , are numerous lymphatic vessels of considerable size .
They not uncommonly surround the arteries which they accompany , as represented in Plate 47 .
fig. 1 , and even completely invaginate them , so as to represent " perivascular lymphatics " ( see fig. 5 ) .
These vessels are in direct connexion with the network of lymphatics already described on the surface of the organ ( see p. 559 ) .
They are provided with valves ; and their walls are formed by a layer of endothelium , the cells of which are elongated and have a somewhat sinuous outline .
Many of these cells appear to be provided with two , or even three , oval-shaped nuclei ( see fig. 7 ) .
The endothelial markings are well seen in specimens prepared according to method 2 , and the nuclei sometimes assume a faint violet tint from the hsematoxylin .
As represented in figure 7 , the nuclei are not uncommonly seen as if lying under the silver line separating two adjacent cells , a part of the nucleus being on one side of the line and part on the other .
Coming off from these vessels , and traversing the gland in all directions , are numerous lymphatic tubes of very varied size and shape .
The larger ones run principally between groups of vesicles , and are in direct communication with smaller ones which pass between individual gland-vesicles .
The latter ( the " few finer canals " of Frey ) , in a well-injected specimen , are seen to be numerous , and are frequently noticed partially , and not uncommonly completely , surrounding the individual vesicles .
As mentioned , these tubes vary very much in size and form\#151 ; in fact , they appear to adapt themselves accurately to the intervals left between the vesicles .
This being the case , as might be expected , the diameter of a tube rarely remains constant for any distance ; and where the intervals left between the vesicles are larger , the tubes expand into lymphatic spaces having the most irregular shape .
The lymphatic tubes , then , both large and small , together with the lymphatic spaces , form a dense rounded network of freely anastomosing canals , which permeates the entire substance of the thyroid gland .
In no case have I seen any indication of the lymphatics terminating in blind extremities , and can only attribute such an appearance to an imperfect injection .
The distinctly tubular character of the tubes , as well as the form of the spaces and tubes generally , are best seen in specimens injected with Berlin blue ( figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) .
In perfectly injected parts of silver preparations a continuous layer of endothelial cells is seen lining both larger and smaller lymphatic tubes and lymphatic spaces .
Figs. 4 \amp ; 6 represent lymphatic tubes and spaces lined by the endothelium , which in some places has been accidentally cut away .
The endothelial cells are somewhat elongated , and present an irregularly sinuous outline .
They form a delicate membrane , adhering closely to the outer wall of the vesicles .
In a thick section this can be well seen following accurately the walls of the vesicles , and covering them , as it were , like a thin veil .
( Attempts to represent this disposition of the endothelial membrane are seen in figs. 5 , c , \amp ; 6 .
) In these silver preparations a frequent appearance is that of a small artery traversing a lymphatic , and completely surrounded by a layer of endothelium , as represented in fig. 5 , Once familiar with the appearances in preparations in which the silver injection has been successful , the walls of the lymphatic tubes and spaces may be recognized between almost all contiguous gland-vesicles in parts where the injection has not penetrated .
They appear in this case as two fine dark wavy lines , studded at intervals with the nuclei of the endothelial cells seen in profile ( figs. 13,14 , \amp ; c. ) .
The nuclei then appear as staff-shaped bodies , and are of a much darker colour than when seen from their broad surface .
The walls of the lymphatics presenting this appearance can usually be seen extending quite up to the free extremity of the inflexions mentioned above ( p. 560 ) .
Where two vesicles are in apposition , it is not uncommon to see the two dark lines representing the opposite endothelial walls separated for a short distance by a small quantity of a transparent material .
It is possible that this appearance , attributed to the lymphatics , may some instances be produced by capillary blood-vessels .
Judging , however , from specimens in which the lymphatics are injected , it is probable that we have to do with such vessels , although it is not possible to distinguish the nucleated membrane forming the wall of a capillary blood-vessel from that of a lymphatic .
The Contents of the Lymphatics.\#151 ; Before concluding this description of the lymphatics I must say a few words with regard to the contents of these vessels .
On examining the lymphatic vessels in a specimen injected with Berlin blue , and stained with picrocarminate of ammonia , by far the greater part of their cavity is seen to be filled with a granular material of a more or less bright yellow colour .
The blue injection occupies the peripheral portion of the lumen of the vessel , forming bands of colouring-matter between the wall of the vessel and its contents .
In fig. 1 , b represents the granular contents of a lymphatic vessel , and the dark line surrounding this indicates the position of the injection .
On examining the lymphatic tubes some of them are seen to contain this granular material ; the greater part , however , in a well-injected specimen , are filled with blue injection .
It is probable that the injection first entering the smaller tubes , i. e. the rootlets , forces their contents , or at least a part of them , onwards into the larger tubes , and from these into the lymphatic vessels .
From the relation existing between the injection and the contents of the vessels , I am led to the belief that during life the contents are of a viscid consistence .
This conclusion results from the following considerations :\#151 ; If at the time of the injection the contents were fluid , or of the consistence of ordinary lymph , the injection on entering the vessels would either force the contents of the same before it or commingle with them .
The injection , however , was performed immediately after death , before the contents could have had time to coagulate ; and the injection , as we have seen , does not mix with the contents , but forms a separate layer between them and the wall of the vessel .
It therefore follows that the contents of the lymphatic vessels must during life have been more or less viscid in character .
OF THE THYKOID GLAND OF THE DOG .
Iii sections stained with heematoxylin the contents of the lymphatics usually present a uniform appearance , but are sometimes finely granular .
They stain of a faint greyish-violet colour .
In addition to this peculiar material , a few globules of a hyaline substance sometimes appear in the lymphatics .
II .
Parenchyma .
Besides the stroma , lymphatics , blood-vessels , \amp ; c. between the vesicles , there is another tissue , to which , as far as I am aware , no allusion is made by authors on this subject .
To this tissue I propose to give the name of " parenchyma , " on the supposition that it is possibly analogous to the parenchyma of the testis as described by Kolliker , Henle , and Michalkovitch .
Characters of the Parenchyma.\#151 ; On examining with a high power ( as Yerick 's obj .
8 ) specimens stained with heematoxylin and mounted in balsam , the attention is attracted by numerous cells differing markedly in size and shape from the epithelial cells amongst which they lie .
These cells present usually a more or less rounded appearance , and are considerably larger than the adjacent epithelial cells .
Their cell-substance is finely granular , and they are each provided with a single large nucleus .
It frequently happens that these cells present an irregular outline , being at the same time smaller , as if the cell-substance had shrunk up round the nucleus .
When this is the case a space is left between it and the surrounding structures ( vide figs. 8 , 10 , 11 , b , 12 , b , 14 , b , and 15 , b ) .
At some parts of the specimens , however , this is not the case , and the cell-substance then presents a regular rounded outline , and is in contact with the neighbouring elements ( videfigs .
9 , \amp ; 12 , c ) .
The nuclei of the parenchymatous cells are round or oval in shape , and have a well-marked outline .
They are larger than those of the epithelial cells , and do not stain quite so darkly with hsematoxylin .
In their interior are seen several nucleoli .
The parenchymatous cells are met with either alone ( figs. 8 \amp ; 13 ) or in groups ( figs. 9,10,11,12,14 , \amp ; 15 ) .
In the latter case several ( often three ) frequently appear to be situate in a common cavity , which they do not fill out , as shown in figs. 10 , 11 , \amp ; 14 .
As regards the position occupied by these cells , and their relation to the walls of the vesicles , four different appearances at least are presented:\#151 ; 1 .
The cells are situate , either singly or in groups , external the vesicles , and separated from their cavity by a layer of normal epithelial cells epithelial cells as described above at page 560 ) .
See figs. 10 \amp ; 15 .
2 .
Other parenchymatous cells , also situate in the intervesicular spaces , are seen to be separated from the cavity of the adjoining vesicle by a layer of flattened epithelial , the latter presenting a concave surface to the parenchymatous cells .
See figs. 8 , 9 , \amp ; 11 .
3 .
Some parenchymatous cells are seen encroaching on the layer of epithelial cells to 5G4 ME .
E. C. BABEE ON THE MINUTE ANATOMY such an extent that they are only separated from the cavity of the vesicle by a membrane ( figs. 12 , c\amp ; 9 , c ) .
They lie , as it were , in a cup formed by the flattened epithelial cells .
4 .
In other cases the parenchymatous cells are seen lying in a cup or hollow formed by the epithelial cells , and in which the flattened epithelial cells , or the membrane , separating the parenchymatous cells from the cavity of the vesicle have given way , thus placing the parenchymatous cells in direct communication with the contents of the vesicle ( figs. 12 , b , 13 , b , \amp ; 14 , h).In this , as in all other situations described , the parenchymatous cells may be single or several together , apparently in a common cavity .
Lastly , rounded cavities or cups , similar to those shown in figs. 12 , 13 , \amp ; 14 , whose walls are formed by flattened epithelial cells , and which communicate freely with the vesicle , may be frequently seen in an empty condition .
The simple and , as it appears to me , the only reasonable interpretation of the above facts is this:\#151 ; The parenchymatous cells , either in groups or singly , lie originally in the intervesicular tissue , outside the epithelial walls of the vesicles .
They begin to make their way into a neighbouring vesicle by pressing on the epithelial wall of one with which they are in contact .
This pressure exerted by a parenchymatous cell causes the epithelial cells to lose their quadrilateral outline , and to present a more or less triangular or crescentic appearance .
The pressure continuing , the epithelial cells become flattened , and finally either separate at once ( figs. 13 , b \amp ; 14 , or first become reduced to a thin membrane , which then gives way ( fig. 12 , b ) .
In either case the result is the same .
The parenchymatous cell is placed in direct communication with the contents of the vesicle , and can escape into the cavity of the same .
And that it does so is shown by the fact that these cups or hollows formed by flattened epithelial cells are frequently seen in an empty condition , having lost their parenchymatous cells .
To sum up this process : it appears that the cells forming the parenchyma of the thyroid gland of the dog originate in the intervesicular tissue external to the walls of the vesicles ; from some cause ( inherent movement , or groivth of cells behind them ) they exert pressure on the wall of an adjoining vesicle ; the cells of this become flattened out or absorbed , and finally give way , allowing the parenchymatous cells to escape into the , and to form a constituent of the contents , of the vesicle but what part these cells take in the formation of the contents of the vesicles I am unable to state .
The distribution of parenchyma through the gland appears tolerably uniform , though probably its cells are more numerous between the small than between the large vesicles .
As above mentioned , in some places they are numerous and form groups , whereas in others they appear only thinly scattered on the walls of the vesicles .
As I have observed them in all thyroid glands of the dog that I have carefully examined , they must be regarded as normal and constant structures .
The parenchymatous cells can usually without difficulty be distinguished from the small vesicles , which they frequently resemble in size .
The former are less highly refractive , and possess a nucleus as above described .
In fig. 15 the two are seen represented side by side .
OF THE THTEOID GLAND OF THE DOG .
Resemblance between the contents of the Vesicles and those of the Lymphatics.\#151 ; In conclusion I wish to draw attention to the close resemblance existing between the contents of the vesicles and those of the lymphatics .
This resemblance will probably have already struck the reader from the description of these two substances given above ( pages 560 and 562 ) .
There are several reasons for considering that the two substances are identical:\#151 ; 1 .
The general Appearance and Staining with Reagents.\#151 ; In specimens prepared as above , and stained with picrocarminate of ammonia , they both present a granular appearance and stain of a yellow colour , more or less bright .
In sections stained with lisematoxylin they both present generally a uniform , sometimes a finely granular , aspect , and stain of a greyish-violet colour .
2 .
The Consistence.\#151 ; The reasons for considering the contents of the lymphatics to be during life of a viscid consistence have already been given ( see above , page 562 ) .
The contents of the vesicles are ( as stated above , page 558 ) described by Kolliker and Frey as consisting of a clear viscid fluid ; and , as far as I have seen , there appears no reason to doubt this assertion , though I have not directly proved its accuracy .
From these facts it appears that the contents of the lymphatics are morphologically identical with those of the vesicles , and they give a strong reason for suspecting that the two materials are also identical in other respects .
It is of material importance to remember that in all but one or two of the cases which have been examined , most of the vesicles , as well as the lymphatics , contained the material above described ; and it is further important to bear in mind that the material in the lymphatics fills and even distends the vessels completely , without containing any formed corpuscles ; the material cannot therefore be lymph .
Hence it is reasonable to think that one , possibly the chief , function of the thyroid gland is the formation , within the vesicles , of a material which is transferred from these by the lymphatics to the general circulation , there to serve some purpose in the animal economy as yet unknown .
The close relationship existing between the lymphatic tubes and the walls of the vesicles , together with the abundant distribution of lymphatics both within and without the thyroid gland , appear to lend support to this view .
This theory is not novel ; for Frey ( op .
cit. p. 232 ) , speaking of the glands formed of closed vesicles , says:\#151 ; " The vesicles are supposed to form a secretion in their interior from the component parts of the blood , and to pass the same on , when ready , to the blood-vessels and lymphatics for removal .
" He alludes to this as " a very insufficient explanation .
" And he may well do so , seeing that he gives no reason in support of it ; for neither Frey , nor any other author I have consulted , alludes to the contents of the lymphatics , still less to the identity ( morphological , at least ) existing between the contents of the vesicles ( where the material is supposed to be formed ) and those of the lymphatics ( by which it is supposed to be carried off ) ; nor do they give any other ground in support of this view .
The thyroid gland being a body about whose function we know at present absolutely mdccclxxvi .
4 i nothing , any clue likely to throw some light on this subject is of value ; hence my reason for introducing the above remarks , which are , of course , still in a large degree conjectural .
It will be very interesting to examine the thyroid gland in other animals , and to investigate more closely the nature of this peculiar material , subjects which I propose to pursue .
The above research was made at the suggestion , and under the direction , of Dr. Klein , to whom I wish to return my best thanks .
Explanation of the Plates .
PLATE 47 .
Fig. 1 .
From a transverse section of the thyroid gland , injected with Berlin blue and stained with picrocarminate of ammonia .
( Verick 's obj .
6 , oc .
I. ) a. Lumen of an artery , seen in transverse section .
b. Cross section of a large lymphatic vessel that surrounds it .
This is seen filled with a granular material , stained yellow in the specimen .
The dark outline indicates the position occupied by the Berlin-blue injection .
c. Contents of the vesicles , which present a similar appearance to b. d. Walls of gland-vesicles , the epithelial cells of which are flattened by the action of the reagents .
Fig. 2 .
Small lymphatic tubes and spaces injected with Berlin blue , from a longitudinal section of the thyroid gland .
Hardened in Muller 's fluid and alcohol .
( Obj .
6 , oc .
I. ) Fig. 3 .
A more general view of the lymphatic tubes and spaces , from a similar specimen .
In this preparation the tubes appear somewhat shrunk by the action of the reagents .
( Obj .
2 , oc .
I. Tube drawn out .
) Fig. 4 .
Lymphatic tubes showing endothelium , from a transverse section of the gland injected with nitrate of silver .
In this specimen , which is rather thick , the tubes , which in the drawing appear on one level , are situated on various planes , and frequently dip down among the vesicles .
( Obj .
3 , oc .
III .
) Fig. 5 .
From a transverse section of the thyroid gland injected with nitrate of silver .
a. Interior of a large lymphatic cut across .
Running across its cavity is seen an artery ( b ) which is surrounded by the endothelial wall of the lymphatic .
This endothelial layer is also seen investing the outer surface of the neighbouring vesicles .
The structure of these is only represented at one part ( c ) .
( Obj .
3 , oc .
III .
) PLATE 48 .
Fig. 6 .
From a transverse section injected with silver , showing lymphatic tubes surrounding a group of vesicles and giving off smaller branches .
The endothelial Saber .
Phil. Trans. 1876 .
Plate .
47 .
E C.Baber aLeL .
rM a.* , .
OF THE THYROID GLAND OF THE DOG .
membrane , which in some places is cut away , is seen investing the outer surface of the vesicles .
The structure of the vesicles is not represented , their outlines being indicated by the shading .
( Obj .
3 , oc .
III .
) Fig. 7 .
From a longitudinal section of the gland injected with silver , showing the wall of a lymphatic vessel .
The endothelial cells are seen with their oval-shaped nuclei faintly stained with haematoxylin .
Some of the cells have two , others three nuclei .
Some of the nuclei are seen crossed by the silver lines .
( Obj .
3 , oc .
I. ) Figs. 8 to 15 illustrate the appearances presented by the " parenchymatous " cells of the thyroid gland .
They are all taken from sections of the gland hardened in alcohol and stained with haematoxylin .
All except fig. 11 are drawn with obj .
8 , oc .
I. In figs. 8 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 and 15 , a indicates the interior of a vesicle , and the parenchymatous cells .
Fig. 8 .
From a transverse section , representing a small portion of the wall of a vesicle ( a ) with its layer of epithelial cells .
A large round parenchymatous cell ( ) is seen , which has so flattened out two epithelial cells that it has formed on their outer aspect a cup , in which it lies .
Fig. 9 .
From a longitudinal section , showing several parenchymatous cells ( with their cell-substance not shrunk ) situate at various distances from the interior of the vesicles ( a a ) .
Some are separated from the cavity of the vesicle by merely a membrane ( c ) , others by flattened epithelial cells , and others , again , by normal epithelial cells .
Between a and a a cavity is seen left between the epithelial cells , out of which a parenchymatous cell has probably escaped .
Fig. 10 .
From a transverse section .
Three parenchymatous cells ( ) with their nuclei are seen apparently situate in a common cavity , and not encroaching , as far as can be seen , on the wall of a vesicle .
Their cell-substance appears shrunk .
Fig. 11 .
From a transverse section , showing a similar space containing apparently two parenchymatous cells ( b ) , one of which presents the appearance of hanging into the space and of being attached to the epithelial cells .
( Drawn with obj .
8 , oc .
III .
) Fig. 12 .
From a transverse section .
A portion of the epithelial wall ( a ) of a vesicle is seen in which are two parenchymatous cells The one ( e ) with its cell- substance not shrunk is apparently still separated from the cavity of the vesicle by a membrane ; the other exhibits a shrunken cell-substance , which , together with its nucleus , stands in free communication with the cavity of the vesicle ( a ) .
Fig. 13 .
From a longitudinal section of the gland , showing a portion of the walls of three contiguous vesicles ( a a a ) .
In the wall of one is seen a parenchymatous cell ( b ) , with its cell-substance slightly shrunk , which , owing to the flattened epithelial cells surrounding it having separated , stands in direct communication with the interior of the vesicle ( \lt ; ) .
This figure shows well the walls of the lymphatics , together with the nuclei of their endothelial cells seen in profile ( see above , page 562 ) .
Figs. 12 \amp ; J3 represent a further stage in the movement of the parenchymatous cells to that seen in figs. 8 and 9 .
Fig. 14 .
From a longitudinal section , showing three parenchymatous cells ( ) , apparently situate in a common cavity .
The wall of a neighbouring vesicle has become flattened out , and the flattened epithelial cells have separated , placing the parenchymatous cells in free communication with the interior of the vesicle ( a ) .
Fig. 15 .
From a transverse section , showing parenchymatous cells and also small vesicles ( c).The latter with opaque uniform contents , as above described ( p. 560 ) ; the former exhibiting a granular cell-substance and large oval-shaped nuclei .
The cells separating them , possibly from being shrunk , present almost the appearance of a reticulum .
B ab e*~ .
Phil. Trans. 1876 .
4*8 JDCHaht** ( LeT .
KH .
WealeyUbh , .
WWest'\amp ; .Co.xvnp .

