1873 .
] Electrical Phenomena in the leaf of Dionaea muscipula .
495 November 20 , 1873 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Tn pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Capt. John Herschel , R.E. , elected in 1871 , was admitted into the Society .
General Boileau , Mr. Etheridge , Mr. Merrifield , Mr. Newmarch , and Prof. Ramsay , having been'nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on the Electrical Phenomena which accompany irritation of the leaf of Dioncea muscipula .
" By J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , E.R.S. , Professor of Practical Physiology in University College .
Received October 13 , 1873 .
1 .
When the opposite ends of a living leaf of are placed on nonpolarizable electrodes in metallic connexion with each other , and a Thomson 's reflecting galvanometer of high resistance is introduced into the circuit thus formed , a deflection is observed which indicates the existence of a current from the proximal to the distal end of the leaf .
This current I call the normal leaf-current .
If , instead of the leaf , the leaf-stalk is placed on the electrodes ( the leaf remaining united to it ) in such a way that the extreme end of the stalk rests on one electrode and a part of the stalk at a certain distance from the leaf on the other , a current is indicated which is opposed to that in the leaf .
This I call the stalJc-eurrent .
To demonstrate these two currents , it is not necessary to expose any cut surface to the electrodes .
2 .
In a leaf with the petiole attached , the strength of the current is determined by the length of the petiole cut off with the leaf , in such a way that the shorter the petiole the greater is the deflection .
Thus in a leaf with a petiole an inch long , I observed a deflection of 40 .
I then cut off half , then half the remainder , and so on .
After these successive amputations , the deflections were respectively 50 , 65 , 90 , 120 .
If in this experiment , instead of completely severing the leaf at each time , it is merely all but divided with a sharp knife , the cut surfaces remaining in accurate apposition , the result is exactly the same as if the severance were complete ; no further effect is obtained on separating the parts .
3 .
Effect of constant current directed through the petiole on the leaf-current.\#151 ; If the leaf is placed on the galvanometer electrodes as before , von .
xxi .
2 r 496 Electrical Phenomena in the Zea/ o/ Dionsea muscipula .
[ Nov. %0 } and the petiole introduced into the circuit of a small Daniell , a com* mutator being interposed , it is found that on directing the battery-current down the petiole ( i. e. from the leaf ) , the normal deflection is increased ; on directing the current towards the leaf , the deflection is diminished .
4 .
Negative variation.\#151 ; a. If , the leaf being so placed on the electrodes that the normal leaf-current is indicated by a deflection , a fly is allowed to creep into it , it is observed that the moment the fly reaches the interior ( so as to touch the sensitive hairs on the upper surface of the lamina ) , the needle swings to the right , the leaf at the same time closing on the fly .
* b. The fly having been caught does not remain quiet in the leaf ; each time it moves , the needle again swings to the right , always coming to rest in a position somewhat further to the left than before , and then slowly resuming its previous position .
c. The same series of phenomena present themselves if the sensitive hairs of a still expanded leaf are touched with a camel-hair pencil .
d. If the closed leaf is gently pinched with a pair of forceps with cork points , the effect is the same .
e. If the leaf-stalk is placed on the electrodes , as before , with the leaf attached to it , the deflection of the needle due to the stalk-current is increased whenever the leaf is irritated in any of the ways above described .
f. If half the lamina is cut off and the remainder placed on the electrodes , and that part of the concave surface at which the sensitive hairs are situated is touched with a camel-hair pencil , the needle swings to the right as before .
g. If , the open leaf having been placed on the galvanometer electrodes as in a , one of the concave surfaces is pierced with a pair of pointed platinum electrodes in connexion with the opposite ends of the secondary coil of a Du Bois-Beymond 's induction apparatus , it is observed that each time that the secondary circuit is closed the needle swings to the right , at once resuming its former position in the same manner as after mechanical irritation .
No difference in the effect is observable when the direction of the induced currents is reversed .
The observation may be repeated any number of times ; but no effect is produced unless an interval of from ten to twenty seconds has elapsed since the preceding irritation .
h. If the part of the concave surface of the leaf which is nearest the petiole is excited , whether electrically or mechanically , the swing to the right ( negative variation ) is always preceded by a momentary jerk of the needle to the left , i. e. in the direction of the deflection due to the normal leaf-current ; if any other part of the concave surface is irritated , this does not take place .
J % .
Whether the leaf is excited mechanically or electrically , an interval of from a quarter to a third of a second intervenes between the act of irritation and the negative variation .

