368 Dr. B. Sanderson on the Excitation of the [ June II , The author then extends his experiments to lead , a metal known to contract greatly in solidifying , and , with respect to which , no one has suggested that it expands at the moment of consolidation .
He finds that pieces of lead having a specific gravity of 11*361 , and being at 70 ' F. , float or sink upon molten lead of the same quality , whose calculated specific gravity was 11*07 , according to the relation that subsists between the volume and the " effective " surface of the solid piece , thin pieces with large surface always floating , and vice .
An explanation is offered of the true cause of the ascending and descending currents observed in very large " ladles " of liquid cast iron , as stated by Messrs. Nasmyth and Carpenter .
The facts are shown to be in accordance* with those above mentioned , and when rightly interpreted to be at variance with the views of these authors .
Lastly , the author proceeds to examine the statements made by these writers , as to the floating of lumps of solidified iron furnace-slag upon the same when in a molten state ; he examines the conditions of the alleged facts , and refers to his own experiments upon the total contraction of such slags , made at Barrow Iron-works ( a full account of which he has given in his paper on " The true Nature and Origin of Volcanic Heat and Energy , " printed in Phil. Trans. 1873 ) , as conclusively proving that such slags are not denser in the molten than in the solid state , and that the floating referred to is due to other causes .
The author returns thanks to several persons for facilities liberally afforded him in making these experiments .
IV .
" Note on the Excitation of the Surface of the Cerebral Hemispheres by Induced Currents .
" By J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Practical Physiology in University College , London .
Received April 30 , 1874 .
In a paper recently communicated to the Royal Society by Dr. Ferrier ( Proceedings , No. 151 ) it is shown that when two ends of copper wire distant from each other not more than a couple of millimetres , and in metallic communication with the terminals of the secondary coil of a Du Bois 's induction-apparatus in action , are applied to certain spots of the surface of either hemisphere , and great intensity is given to the induced currents thereby directed through the living tissue , by previously bringing the secondary coil into such a position that it is very close to the primary coil or even partially covers it , characteristic combined movements of the opposite side of the body are produced .
With reference to these effects , it was observed by Dr. Ferrier ( 1 ) that excitation of the same spot always produces the same movement in the same animal , ( 2 ) that the area of excitability for any given movement ( or , as it may be called for shortness , active spot ) is extremely small and admits of very accurate definition , and ( 3 ) that in different animals 1874 .
] Brain-surface by Induced Currents .
369 excitations of anatomically corresponding spots produce similar or corresponding results .
From these remarkable facts and from others similar to them relating to other parts of the brain to which I do not now advert , it was inferred that , at the surface of the hemispheres , certain " centres " are to be found , of which it is the function to originate combined or even purposive movements .
To this inference objections have been recently raised by Dr. Dupuy , based on the results of experiments made by him , in which he found that , after the ablation of those parts of the hemispheres which contain the supposed centres , movements , similar to those described by Dr. Ferrier , can still be produced by electrical excitation of the cut surface .
In commenting on these counter experiments , Dr. Ferrier has since pointed out that the effects described by Dr. Dupuy are entirely different from those observed by himself , and , particularly , that the movements produced in his experiments are of an uncertain character , affecting sometimes one , sometimes several groups of muscles .
As it appeared to me that , although Dr. Dupuy has failed to prove that the movements he described are of the same nature with those described by Dr. Ferrier , the latter has not proved that they are different , I thought it necessary to make a series of experiments for the purpose of clearing up this uncertainty .
With this view I determined to investigate the most characteristic of the combined movements , so accurately described by Dr. Ferrier as produced by excitation of particular spots on the anterior part of either hemisphere , by comparing them with those produced by excitation of deeper parts .
The results of my experiments , in which cats were employed , are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
By removing the integument , skull , and dura matter to an extent corresponding to the anterior half of the right parietal bone and the adjoining thin portion of the frontal bone , an area of the surface of the brain is brought into view which comprises several spots by the excitation of which the following characteristic movements can be produced:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Extraction of the left fore paw , with flexion of the carpus , accompanied by similar movements of the left hind leg .
( 2 ) Closure of the left eye and elevation of the left upper lip .
( 3 ) Eetraction of the left ear .
( 4 ) Eotation of the head to the left side .
The active spots for these several movements are as follows :\#151 ; For ( 1 ) , a point immediately behind the outer end of the crucial sulcus ; for ( 2 ) , the surface about the outer end of a sulcus which lies immediately behind ( 1 ) ; for ( 3 ) , the surface behind the sulcus last mentioned ; for ( 4 ) , a spot about a centim. further back on the same convolution .
Movements ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) can be produced in the cat with very great certainty , and the active spots for them are well defined .
Their limits and relations are in exact accordance with the statements of Dr. Ferrier .
2 .
If that part of the surface of the right hemisphere which comprises the active spots above mentioned is severed from the deeper parts by a 370 On the Excitation of the Brain-surface .
[ June 11 , nearly horizontal incision made with a thin-bladed knife , and the instrument is at once withdrawn , without dislocation of the severed part , and the excitation of the active spots thereupon repeated , the result is the same as when the surface of the uninjured organ is acted upon .
If a similar incision is made in a parallel plane , but at a lower level , this is not the case ; but on removing the flap and applying the electrodes to the cut surface , it is found that there are on it active spots , which , as regards the effect of excitation , have the same properties as the active spots previously observed on the natural surface , and that the latter have the same topographical relation to each other as the former .
3 .
In a brain hardened in alcohol a needle plunged vertically , i. e. at right angles to the surface , from the active spot for retraction of the opposite ear , reaches the posterior part of the corpus striatum at a depth of from 10 to 12 millims. If a horizontal incision is made in the living brain , at this depth , and is met by two others , of which one is directed antero-posteriorly and the other transversely , and the part comprised within the incisions removed , a surface of brain is exposed in the deepest part of the wound which corresponds to the outer and upper part of the corpus striatum* .
If now the electrodes are applied to this surface , the movements ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) are produced in the same way as before , but more distinctly ; the active spots are quite as strictly localized , and their relations to each other are the same as at the surface\#151 ; the spot for the movement of the extremities being in front , that for the closure of the eye and retraction of the upper lip being to the outside , and that for the ear behind .
From these facts it appears that the superficial convolutions do not contain organs which are essential to the production of the combinations of muscular movements now in question .
They further make it probable that the doctrine hitherto accepted by physiologists , that the centres for such movements are to be found in the masses of grey matter which lie in the floor and outer wall of each lateral ventricle , is true .
* In case it should be necessary to repeat this experiment , it will be found best ( after having noted the effects of exciting the surface at the several active spots and ascertained the degree of excitation required for the production of the corresponding movements ) to proceed to remove the part of the brain containing them , so as to expose the outer aspect of the anterior part of the corpus striatum at once ; and then , as soon as haemorrhage has ceased , to investigate the relative positions of the active spots on the surface so exposed .
[ Since the above paper was communicated , I have ascertained that at the lowest part of this surface there is a spot , of which excitation induces opening of the mouth and alternate protrusion and retraction of the tongue\#151 ; a group of movements which Dr. Ferrier has localized on the under surface of the brain , in front of the Sylvian fissure.\#151 ; J. B. S. , June 3 , 1874 .
]

