325 881 .
] On the Female Organs , Sfc .
, of the Racoon .
ermit tidal friction to be the principal feature in their evolution , hilst its effects are less striking in the other planets .
Amongst other points discussed are the comparative speeds of station of the several planets , and the probable effects of the genesis f a satellite on the course of change afterwards followed by the planet .
The paper ends with a review of the solar system , in which it is hown that the tidal hypothesis is a means of co-ordinating many pparently disconnected phenomena , besides giving a history of the arth and moon since the origin of the latter .
These investigations afford no grounds for the rejection of the nebular hypothesis , but while they present evidence in favour of the aain outlines of that theory , they introduce modifications of con-iderable importance .
Tidal friction is a cause of change of which japlace 's theory took no account , and although the activity of that ?
ause is to be regarded as mainly belonging to a later period than the events described in the nebular hypothesis , yet its influence has been )f great , and in one instance of even paramount importance , in determining the present condition of the planets and of their satellites .
jfv .
" On the Female Organs and Placentation of the Racoon ( Procyon lotor ) .
" By M. WATSON , M.D. , Professor of Anatomy , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 30 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an anatomical description of the female organs and placenta of the racoon .
The specimen examined contained but a single foetus , which was lodged in the right horn of the uterus .
The uterine mucous membrane of the unimpregnated horn was richly supplied with glands , which presented the usual structure .
In the non-placental area of the gravid horn these glands , although present , were evidently undergoing degeneration and were with difficulty recognised , and then only in a fragmentary condition ; whilst in the placental area the uterine mucous membrane these glands had entirely disappeared .
J The author 's observations upon the placenta of Procyon lotor show Aat in respect of this organ ( 1 .
) Procyon agrees with all other Carnivora , in which that organ has hitherto been examined , in the possession of a zonary or annular placenta .
( 2 .
) That Procyon agrees with all of these in the mode of interlock-lug of the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta and in the consequent deciduate character of that organ .
f ( 3 .
) That Procyon .agrees with the members of the plantigrade sec326 Dr. Watney .
Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
[ Jan. 2( ) tion , at the same time that it differs from those composing both th digitigrade and pinniped sections of the carnivora , inasmuch as at on spot the placenta presents a deficiency or gap , at which spot the pla cental structure is imperfect .
( 4 .
) That Procyon agrees with Canis , at the same time that it differ from Felis , in the absence of a continuous layer of decidua serotina from the uterine surface of the detached placenta .
( 5 .
) That Procyon differs from every other carnivore , the placenta o which has been minutely examined , in the possession of placenta vessels possessed of a structure hitherto only met with in the placent ?
of Choloepus Hoffmanni among the Edentates .
( 6 .
) That Procyon differs from every other carnivore , the foetus o which has been hitherto examined , in the non-possession of an umbilical vesicle .
( 7 .
) That Procyon differs from all carnivora of which the young have been hitherto examined , inasmuch as the foetus is provided with a !
supernumerary cuticle or epitridermia , a structure which has only beer met with in the young of certain members of other mammalian groups From an examination of the various facts detailed in the paper , the author arrives at the conclusion that a consideration of the modifi-cations in form and structure of the placenta alone is insufficient as affording a basis upon which to found a natural classification of the mammalia .
Y. " Further Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Thymus ' ' By Herbert Watney , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1881 .
In the involution of the thymus , connective tissue is formed in the medullary portion of the follicle ; and to some extent in the cortical .
Besides this , the connective tissue outside the follicles increases , and in this connective tissue fat is formed ; by these means the gland is finally replaced by fat and fibrous threads .
The cortical part attains its greatest size at the time of the greatest activity of the gland , it is not differentiated from the rest of the follicle at a very early period and disappears somewhat sooner than the medullary portion .
The lymphatics of the thymus of the calf are small .
In the neck they run to neighbouring lymphatic glands , the efferent vessel of which runs to two other lymphatic glands lyiug on the trachea at the root of the neck .
There is no connexion with the large lymphatics of the neck .
In the thoracic portion of the thymus the lymphatics can also be traced to lymphatic glands , one of which is generally situated on the aorta .

