]\gt ; [ 349 ] X. Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure at Very Low Temperatures .
J. T. BOTTOMLEY , M.A. , .D .
, , F.R.S. , and F. A. KING .
Received June 15 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
CONTENTS .
Page Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
349 Description of the apparatus employed . . . . .
350 Calibration of the thermojunctions . . . . .
354 Method of experimenting . . . . .
356 Calculation of the results . . . . .
357 Discussion of the results and STEFAN'S coefficient . . . . .
367 Note added July 11 , 1907 . . . . . .
372 1 .
THE experiments described in the following paper form part of an investigation with which one of the present authors has been engaged for many years past .
The object of this investigation is the direct determination , in absolute measure , of the loss of energy , from a heated body to cooler surroundings , under differin conditions as to ( 1 ) the dimensions of the cooling body ; ( 2 ) the nature of the surfaces of the cooling body and of the enclosure ; ( 3 ) the mean absolute temperature of the cooling body and the envelope ; ( 4 ) the nature of the atmosphere surrounding the cooling body .
Several papers have already been published on this subject in the 'Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ' and in the 'Proceedings , ' and have been communicated to the British Association and elsewhere .
* In all of these the lowest temperature available was the atmospheric temperature , or rather the temperature of the water supply of the laboratory ; and the body from which radiation was to take place was heated to a temperature as much above the atmospheric temperature as the circumstances connected with the experiment would , from time to time , permit .
Thus the upper and lower limits of these experiments have been something below 1000o C. as the highest temperature of the cooling body , and , say , C. as the lowest temperature of the enclosure .
2 .
Some time ago , through the kindness of Lord , F.R.S. , an unlimited supply of liquid air was placed at our disposal , to be followed later by a supply of liquid hydrogen .
It seemed therefore most desirable to extend the research in the 'Phil .
Trans 1887 and 1893 ; 'Brit .
Assoc 1884 , 1901 , 1905 , \amp ; c. ( 436 .
) 27.7.08 direction indicated by the new facilities given to us , which both greatly extended the limits goyerning the enquiry , and also made it possible to obtain determinations , in absolute measure , of thermal radiation between bodies at extremely low temperatures .
It seemed specially interesting , for example , to determine , in absolute measure , the radiation under given circumstances from a body at , say , ordinary atmospheric temperature , to an enclosure at a temperature which may perhaps approximate to that of space .
With the exception of some preliminary results , which were communicated 18 months ago to the British Association , nothing of the kind has been published , so far as we are aware .
3 .
The main object of the present paper is to give an account of this research .
We have also , however , made an endeavour to , and bring into co-relation , the results of earliel experiments , made under various circumstances , with forms of apparatus differin widely from each other , with different radiating surfaces and different enclosures , or sometimes with the same apparatus after it has been dismantled and re-erected .
inally , we have made an attempt to apply the law of STEFAN to the results , in order to obtain some idea as to how far the conditions under which it holds have been realised in these experiments .
DESCRIPTION 0F THE APPARATUS EMPLOYED .
4 .
Although the apparatus used has already been described in former papers , short description of it here will probably be of advantage , particularly as it was Fig. 1 .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
necessary to alter the arrangements considerably , in order to make them suitable for low-temperature work .
5 .
The bodies used in these experiments for radiation purposes are solid copper globes , 4 centims. in diameter .
These globes , and the enclosure in which they are suspended , were used in many earlier experiments on radiation at high temperatures ; and the main parts of the apparatus used then and of the present apparatus are essentially the same .
As has been already mentioned , however , modifications had to be introduced , owing to the low temperature to which the enclosure was subjected .
6 .
Referring to the general sketch of the apparatus , fig. 1 , and to fig. 2 : at the centre of a spherical copper shell , 8 centims , in diameter , a copper globe is suspended .
The enclosure was beaten into shape out.of a piece of thick sheet copper .
It has a brass , cup-shaped flange , , brazed on to the neck , and the whole is thoroughly tinned both inside and outside , to make sure that every crack or pin-hole shall be filled in and the enclosure made vacuum tight .
A seamless brass tube , , about 1centims .
in internal diameter , has the corresponding flange , , brazed on to its lower end , and has a collar , , with a -groove turned in it , soldered to its upper end .
When the enclosure is brought up into position , the shoulder of the upper flange , , fits into the cup of the flange on the enclosure , and the two are firmly clamped together by the four setscrews .
The joint is then made vacuum-tight by pouring molten fusible metal into the cup , , the flanges having been previously prepared by tinning them with fusible metal .
* Fusible metal was used on account of its low melting-point , as the prolonged heating necessary to make a good soldered joint of such extent has a tendency to tarnish the highly polished globe when it is suspended within the enclosure .
A piece of wide glass tubing , , was ground to fit the grooye in the collar ; and , when all other preparations were complete , the joint was carefully sealed with " " relwachs.\ldquo ; To prevent the " " Siegelwachs\ldquo ; from becoming brittle by the cold conducted , the brass tube , when the enclosure is immersed in a bath of liquid air , copper vanes were clamped to the upper part of the brass tube to act as a radiator .
A -piece of quill tubing was sealed on to the glass tube , to connect the enclosure to a pair of five-fall Sprengel pumps which are arranged to run con- tinuously .
Interposed between the pumps and the enclosure is a Leod gauge for measuring the vacuum pressure ; and attached to a three-way stopcock there is a bulb , , filled with cocoanut charcoal , which can be put in communication with the enclosure .
7 .
All the joints between the various pieces of glass apparatus are fused together with the blow-pipe , so as to avoid rubber , or other such connections .
Therrnojunctions .
8 .
For measuring the rence of temperatures between the globe and the enclosure , a pair of platinum to platinoid thermojunctions are used .
These two metals give an excellent thermo-electric combination , as was shown in a paper on the subject by J. T. BOTTOMLEY and A. TANAKADATE .
We have found them very satisfactory .
The two thermojunctions are soldered into two little copper cylinders , oo , about * While working with fusible metal we have that this malierial becomes springy at liquid-air temperature , and thus yields elastically to any chatlges in shape of the flanges .
An improvement was made in the present apparatus by placing the M'Leod gauge as close as possible to the encIosure of which the vacuum pressure is to be measured by the gauge .
We have found , from past experience , that it takes a considerable time for small differences of pressure to become equalised in highly exhausted enclosures , especially when the arefied have to diffuse through a of glass tubing .
'Roy .
Soc Proc vol. 46 , 1889 , p. 286 .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
1 centim. long and centim. in diameter .
One of these cylinders is screwed into the centre of the copper globe , and the other , carrying the outside thermojunction , is tied to the bulb of a pentane thermometer , and is placed in the bath of liquid air which surrounds the enclosure .
* 9 .
The cooling globe is suspended by the of the thermojunction .
Its weight is borne by the platinoid wire , which passes a fine hole drilled in the wall of the brass tube , and the wire is guided to hang centrally in the tube by the support After the length of the platinoid wire has been adjusted so that the copper globe shall hang at the centre of the spherical enclosure , the wire is soldered at the poin where it passes through the wall of the tube .
The platinum wire passes out through a sealed joint in the roof of the glass tube , and to insulate it from the platinoid wire , and from the brass tube in which the two hang side by side , the platinum wire is enclosed in a fine glass tube or sleeve , , which completely protects it .
10 .
The ends of the thermojunction circuit are brought to a mercury reversin key , which has four cups .
To the copper electrodes of one pair of cups the thermojunction wires are soldered ; and the electrodes of the other pair of cups are joined up , through an Ayrton Universal shunt , and a 100,000 ohms resistance , to a standard Clark cell .
Two amalgamated copper rods , the terminals of the galvanometer circuit , can be reyolved so as to make contact with either pair of mercury cups .
This allows the constant of the galvanometer , and the thermojunction value , to be checked with reference to the value of the standard Clark cell whilst the experiment is proceeding .
No joints exist between the thermojunctions and the cups of the mercury key , the platinoid wires of the thermojunctions being taken direct to the mercury cups ; and wherever there are joints in this circuit they occur in pairs , and the joints are insulated and placed side by side , and then wrapped in a thick protective covering of cotton wool .
All colmections exposed to , or likely to give rise to thermo-electric currents , were covered up with cotton wool .
lvanometer .
11 .
Owing to the passin of electric trams in the vicinity of the Laboratory , we were obliged to abandon the dead-beat Thomson reflecting galvanometer of the old pattern ( having a small mirror backed with four tiny magnets , hung by means of a spider , at the centre of the galvanometer coil ) , which was used on former occasions and found thoroughly satisfactory .
A Kelvin marine type of moving-coil galvanometer was substituted for it , and was made extremely sensitive and dead- beat ; and was also adjusted to give proportional deflections .
This , used with a Steinheil telescope , placed 1 metre distant from the galvanometer mirror , and with * To prevent the thermoiunction from touching one another in the liquid air bath , the platinum wire is enclosed in a piece of thermometer tubing , and the platinoid wire is tied at intervals to the outside of the tube .
This allows the junction to be moved about in the bath without fear of disturbing the wires .
VOL. CCVIII .
\mdash ; A. 2 a circular scale 1 metre in radius ruled in half millimetre divisions , gave results which left nothing to be desired .
The telescope , galvanometer , and each part of the radiation apparatus , were fastened firmly down , to prevent any alteration taking place after the thermojunctions had been calibrated .
CALIBRATION OF THE THERMOJUNCTIONS .
12 .
To calibrate the thermojunctions for low temperatures was not a simple matter .
The difficulty was to get a number of reliable points between the temperatures C. and C. The method ultimately adopted is similar to that used , in J. T. earlier experiments on radiation , for determining the resistance of a platinum wire at high temperatures ; but it was suitably modified for the present requirements , and for dealing with low temperatures .
13 .
A thick double-walled copper tube was taken , and one end immersed in a Dewar flask filled with liquid air , fig. 3 .
The end projecting out of the flask was at atmospheric rature , say C. ; and the portion immersed , , at C. , the boiling point of liquid air .
Between the points and , along the length of the tube above the surface of the liquid air , there was a fairly uniform temperature gradient , which was maintained with the greatest steadiness .
One of the little copper cylinders , into which the thermojunctions are soldered , was tied to the bulb of a pentane thermometer , reading from C. to C. This thermometer had previously been compared with a standardised Reichsanstalt pentane thermometer , and checked by a hydrogen thermometer , and by a platinum resistance thermometer .
The other thermojunction was within the copper globe , and inside the enclosure , as sholyn in the diagram .
In taking observations , the junction in the copper globe was kept at a known fixed temperature by surrounding the copper enclosure with ice , or water at the temperature of the laboratory , or with liquid air .
The pentane thermometer with the junction attached was lowered into the copper tube , and , by placing it at different heights , series of temperatures were obtained which remained absolutely steady whilst the galvanometer readings were being taken .
By raising or lowering the flask of liquid air , or by adjusting the height of the copper tube above the surface of the liquid air , or by raising or the little copper cylinder from point to point in the copper tube , it was easy to find any required point of temperature throughout the whole range of the pentane thermometer .
When the readings of the pentane thermometer and galvanometer showed that the thermojunction in the copper tube was at a steady temperature , a stop-watch was started ; and if at the end of two minutes no alteration had taken place in the thermometer and galvanometer readings , the galvanometer deflections to the right and left of zero were observed , and then the zero was taken .
* *This method of obtaining a series of known fixed temperatures , high or low , is most and is far superior to any other with which we are acquainted .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERy LOW TEMPERATURES .
14 .
The results obtained were plotted as a curve , taking the sum of the galvanometer readings as ordinates , and the difference of temperatures between the thermojunctions as abscissae .
this curve the temperatures corresponding to the observed galvanometer deflections were read off when it was required to convert thermojunction to temperatures on the Centigrade scale .
Fig. 3 .
Calibration of thermoiunctions .
This curve was plotted on a large scale on a table covered with a sheet of plate glass , 4 feet 6 inches by 3 feet 6 inches , ruled in 10-centimetre squares .
The glass plate was not wholly covered with squared paper ; those squares only through which the curve passed were filled in .
The smallest division of the squared paper is equal to 1 mm. , and this corresponds to C. , or one scale division of the galvanometer .
15 .
The results of confirmatory experiments , made after intervals of months , reed with absolute accuracy ; which showed that both the thermojunctions and the galvanometer were quite constant .
METHOD 0F CONDUCTING AN EXPERIMENT .
16 .
Before commencing an experiment , the apparatus , and the tubes connecting it to the Sprengel pumps , are thoroughly dried out .
The sooted or silvered globe , as the case may be , is then ched to the copper plug , into which the thermojunction is soldered .
When an experiment is being made with the sooted globe , .
the globe receives a fine dead-black coating of soot from a small gas jet when it is hanging in position on the thermojunction wires .
The enclosure is also given a coating of soot on the inside , and is then brought up into place and clamped to the upper flange by set screws , which pass through holes drilled in lugs cast on the flanges .
The join between the flano e , is next made tight by pourin molten fusible metal into the cup till is well covered .
A small blowpipe jet is run over the surface of the fusible metaljust after it has set , to make sure that no pin-holes are left in the joint .
The preliminary exhaustion of the apparatus is made with a two-cylinder Fleuss mechanical pump , which very rapidly produces almost a barometric vacuum .
Then the Sprengel pumps are set working , and they continue to run until a high vacuum is obtained .
When , after repeated heating , the last traces of moisture and the occluded gases have been driven from the enclosure and charcoal bulb , the pumps are shut off temporarily , and the Leod gauge and charcoal bulb , , are left in communication with the enclosure .
The charcoal bulb is then immersed in a vessel of liquid air , which causes the collapsible gases to be absorbed by the charcoal and condensed , or frozen .
This greatly improves the vacuum , and it clears the enclosure of traces of mercury vapour which may have diffused through from the pumps , matter of the highest importance .
17 .
The next operation is to check the galvanometer with the standard Clark cells , in order to ascertain that its constant has not altered since the calibration of the thermojumctions .
When this has been done , liquid air is poured into the Dewar vessel surroundin the enclosure , and as soon as the violent ebullition has subsided , denoting that the enclosure has cooled down to the temperature of the liquid air , observations commence .
18 .
Readings are taken every 2 minutes at the beginning of the experiment , and later on at intervals of 5 minutes , the frequency depending on the state of the vacuum , and the rate of cooling of the globe .
A chronometer , beating half-seconds , is placed close to the observer at the reading telescope .
At 15 seconds before the exact minute the mercury switch is closed and the deflection to the right of zero observed .
The switch is instantly reversed , and at 15 seconds after the minute the galvanometer has come to rest and the deflection to the left of zero can be read .
The switch is then opened and the zero of rralvanometer is taken .
The vacuum pressure , and the temperature of the liquid RAIDIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERr LOW TEMPERAIURES .
air , are read at intervals and noted alongside the readings with which they correspond .
Also , the observations , as they are made , are plotted on squared paper .
The cooling curves thus obtained afford a good check as to the working of the thermojunctions , while they keep the observer informed as to the steadiness of the cooling process .
19 .
To allow for evaporation of the liquid air , and to keep the level in the Dewar vessel up to a fixed mark on the enclosure , a small quantity of liquid air is added every 5 minutes .
The temperature of the enclosure is kept constant by this method .
It was found that adding fresh liquid air in large quantities caused irregularities on the cooling curves , which were observable as the readings were plotted .
20 .
Trouble was sometimes caused by the leakin of the copper shell , which , owing to the extreme temperature to which it was cooled , would get strained , and allow a slight leakage to take place at the joints or the brazed seams .
These leakages disappeared when the liquid air was removed .
They were , however , often overcome , and the vacuum kept up to a constant pressure by the Sprengel pumps and the charcoal bulb .
Latterly the leakage was got rid of by keeping a layer of pentane over the fusible metal covering the joint between the flanges , and by painting the outside of the enclosure with collodion varnish .
CALCULATION 0F RESULTS .
21 .
We will now explain the method of calculating the results .
For this purpose we use an equation of the form , where is the temperature of the cooling globe , that of the enclosure , the capacity for heat of the globe , and its surface , ile is a coefficient which has been called the nissivity .
It is easy to show by an application of equations that , to a first approximation sufficient for our present purpose , the loss of heat by conduction by the thermojunction wires may be allowed for by adding to or rather , a small quantity depending on the diameter , conductivity , and emissivity of the wires , the length of the wires being so great that no heat passes away by conduction at the ends .
22 .
A point requiring consideration is the following : arrangements explained above give approximately the temperature at or near the centres of the copper globes .
In a criticism of D. ] experiments , which were carried out in 1872 with the same globes which we have used and under circumstances precisely similar , .
CORNU , ' Journal de Physique , ' December , 1873 , raised an objection to the thermoelectric method as compared to the method used by DULONG and PETIT , where the bulb of a thermometer was a cooling body , on the ground that the temperature at the DR. J. T. BOTTOMLEy AND MR. F. A. KING ON THERMAL centre may be different from that of the surface .
* This objection was completely answered by numerical calculations founded on the dimensions and conductivities of the globes in question ; and , in an interesting appendix , the whole question is discussed in ' .
Soc. Proc June 10 , 1875 .
23 .
In above formula the coefficient corresponds to the emissivity ; it is the quantity of heat lost per second , per square centimetre of surface , per degree centigrade of difference of temperatures of radiating surface and surroundings .
This formula is commonly taken to be a representation of the " " law of cooling whether in air or in any other gas , or in vacuum , the range of temperature dealt with being moderate .
The numerical value of depends on the circumstances under which the cooling takes place , and , when air is present , on the dimensions and shape of the cooling body .
24 .
One way of dealing with the matter , from an experimental point of view , is to solve the equation above as though were constant\mdash ; which is , of course , approximately true if the difference of temperatures is small\mdash ; and then to determine numerically the value of at diflerent places in the temperature scale , taking an exact account of the circumstances .
When a sufficiently large number of such values have been obtained , a basis for a wider theory will have been laid .
Taking , then , the equation , and its solution where is the temperature of the cooling globe when , and V the temperature of the enclosure , we have for the numerical calculation of , using common logarithms , being their modulus , Here , the interval of time used in our experiments being 5 minutes ; , and , to which we must add a small quantity which we roughly estimate at about per cent.\mdash ; the correction applied for the carrying away of heat by the thermojunction wires .
This we calculate , assuming that the emissivity of the surface of the conducting wires is much the same as that of a tolerably clean silvered surface .
* To find experimentally how long it would take for a of heat to travel from the surface to the centre of copper globe , a spirit flame was applied to the outside of the globe , and the instant of application was taken with a stop-watch .
The flame was kept under the globe for 2 seconds , and in 6 seconds the zero of the galvanometer scale was seen to be moving rapidly across the tield of the observing telescope .
The maximum deflection was obtained in less than 20 seconds from the time of applying the spirit flame .
Republished in Lord KELVIN'S ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 245 .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTL { AT LOW MPFRATUEFS .
25 .
The emissivities in the present paper are calculated by two methods .
To explain the working out of the results we cannot do better than quote two specimen pages out of the calculation note-books .
These pages are not selected because they show any special feature ; they are simply average specimens .
Method 1 .
26 .
This method of calculating the emissivities is the one chiefly used in the former paper , 'Phil .
Trans 189,3 .
It is fully explained and illustrated there in an appendix , and a brief description of it here will suffice .
Referring to p. 360 : Column 1 contains the times , against which the corresponding galvanometer deflections are noted in Column 2 .
These deflections correspond to the differences of temperatures between the thermojunctions , give the temperatures of the globe at those particular instants of time .
Taking the common logarithms of Column 2 , we get Column 3 ; and the difference between the successive logarithms of the deflections give us Column 4 .
To obtain the emissivities from the numbers in Column 4 , they must be multiplied by , the yalue of which is .
This constant is smaller than that used in the 1893 paper on account of a reduction in the numerical value of which it has been necessary to make for the diminished value of the heat capacity of the copper globes , owin to the low temperatures of the experiments .
27 .
The differences of the temperatures of the globe and its surroundings are read off from the thermojunction calibration curve already mentioned , S 14 , and these are placed in Column 6 ; and Column 7 contains the arithmetic means of the successive pairs of these numbers .
By adding the absolute temperature of the surrounding bath to the latter temperatures we get the absolute temperatures of the globe .
These are placed in Column 8 .
Method 2 .
28 .
In the second method the series of observations during any one experiment , lasting perhaps hours or more , are taken as a whole ; and the emissivities at various temperatures , from the highest to the lowest , are calculated as a continuous series ; the emissiyity being supposed to alter continuously with the absolute temperature of the cooling body .
For purposes of numerical calculation , however , the observed deflections , and the logarithms of these numbers , are , in this method , expressed as functions of the time reckoned from the beginning of the experiment in the way which is about to be *In Dr. BOTTOMLEY'S 1893 experiments it was necessary to apply certain corrections to.the galvanometer readings : ( 1 ) for the straight galvanometer scalc used ; and ( 2 ) a thermojunction correction .
These were described among the details of calculation .
They are not required here owing to our present improved arrangements .
U. BEHN , 'WIEDEMANN'S Annalen , ' 66 , 2 , pp. 237-244 ( 1898 ) , 'Annalen der Physik , ' 1 , 2 , pp. 257-269 ( 1900 ) .
SCHMITZ , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc 72 , pp. 177-193 ( 1903 ) .
DR. J. T. BOTTOMLEy AND MR. F. A. KING ON THERMAL .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE ASURE AT LOW TEMPERATURES .
; VOL. CCVIII .
\mdash ; A. explained ; and , the temperatures corresponding to the times being known , the emissivities can be referred to their respective temperatures .
29 .
Taking for an example the case of the results of April 2 , 1906 ( see table on p. 364 , the and the deflections are given in Columns 1 and 3 ; and in Column 4 are given the logarithms of the deflections , while Column 5 contains the differences of these last , that is Noticing that the difference of logarithms is a number which increases as the experiment proceeds , and is a function of the time , to deal with the numbers conveniently we assume choosing by inspection so that shall contain the greater part of the nulnber which expresses ; while is a residue , as it were a correction on , and obviously containing the irregularities and the of experiment .
Silvered globe in vacuum M. April 2 , 1906 .
In the present investigation is the as , and is the same as of p. that is , the present and are the differences of temperatures , at times and , between the cooliug globe and the envelope .
IATION IN ABSOLUTE AT RATURES .
( 363 The quantity is now assumed to be of the parabolic form The justification for assumption will be made clear presently from a comI ) arisoIl veen observed and calculated values of 30 .
Returning , now , to the original forms , we have and hence But we have also , known by experiment , and equal to ; and we , moreover , where is the modulus of the common logarithms .
Hence by differentiation , and comparison , and , by substitution , we find ; being introduced since in of 5 utes as the unit of time .
Thus is the emissivity when , plus or minus a quantity , for want of a better me , have been in the habit of " " ) time COl.rection.\ldquo ; 31 .
It now only to explain how is dealt with , and how the values of , and , are found .
Referring again to ) specimen p. 364 , and to Column 5 , which contains the values of ; the next column , Column 6 , contains the values of bein chosen to be 25 , so that when the values of are subtracted from the COl.responding numbers in the eceding Column 5 , the remainders , shown in Column 7 , shall be small and convenient for the process which is to follow .
The numbers in Colnlnn 7 are sometimes even llegative ; experience directs the choosing of K. It is to be observed , also , that the factor has been taken out of the numbers in Column 6 .
This must be kept in mind , and the factor inserted at the proper time , at the end of the calculations .
.32 .
The next process is to form three simultaneous equations for the determination of , and in the equation .
There are different ways in which this might be done , but perhaps the simplest way is to divide Column 7 , into three equal parts , and construct columlls containing the corresponding values of .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY RATURES .
and ; to divide these columns similarly , then to take the sums of the numbers in each of the equal parts , and to use the respective sums as the values of , and , to form three equations .
If this is done the equations become the following , as will be seen from the sums indicated in the specimen page , the coefficients of being 10 , as there are ten numbers in each of the sums .
ving- these simultaneous , we find for values of three unknown quantities , 33 .
Having determined the values of , and , the next process is to find the series of values of , which is done by putting the numerical values of into the equation .
The number is not required for the calculation of ) , but is needed for comparison with , and for verification of the exactness of the process .
The values of and are most easily obtained by means of CRELLE'S Multiplication Silvered globe in vacunm M. Apri12 , 1906 .
[ In this diagram the next one the small dots reprcsenting have not out , they on the curve .
] DR. J. T. BOTTOMLEY AND MR. F. A. KING ON THERMAL Tables .
When calculated they are placed in suitable columns not shown in the specimen table , and from these columns the successive values of are obtained by addition , and they are placed in Column 8 ; while Colunm 9 gives the comparison between and .
Remembering that has to be multiplied by , it will be seen the process of averaging leaves nothing to be desired .
34 .
An interesting experimental way of looking at this last question is to plot the values of and on squared paper and to compare the curves .
The results are shown in the accompanyin diagrams , pp. 362 , 365 , 366 ; and the closeness of the Sooted globe cooling in vacunm .
September 18 , 1906 .
agreement between the smooth and the unsmoothed curves is shown to the eye to be quite satisfactory .
If it were not , the necessity for revisio1l of the work would at once be revealed .
In every case the plotted form of and has been found to be usly parabolic .
35 .
Column 10 contains the " " time correction as defined above .
The numbers in this column are added to the emissivity at , which is the number that heads Column 11 , and the sums thus obtained give the emissivities at times \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. These emissivities are placed in Column 11 ; and opposite to them , in Columll 12 , the differences of temperatures between cooling body and surroundings at those times are shown ; while , in Column 13 , the corresponding absolute temperatures of the cooling globe are given .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASUR AT VERY LOW Method 36 .
In some cases it was found able to use a iourth term , containing , in the expression for , when the formula stopping with did not give sufficient accuracy .
This the finding of a fourth constant , S. In this case To calculate the emissiyities the procedure is similar to that just ibed , except that four equations are for med for the determination of and by difications in the equations , p. 363 , we find ; the time correction , instead of being a linear quantity , containing a .
In cases Svas ( , ible , and the first form of found to be suflicient for purpose .
DISCUSSION 0F RESULTS .
37 .
The following tables contain the results ofour experiments on radiation of heat at low tures .
The tables are divided into three groups .
The first roup , bless 1 to XI .
, giyes the loss of heat from copper globe covered with a very finc of soot , hung in a spherical copper shell , also sooted , and at the rbest cuum .
In group , therefore , we have probably the nearest practicable ) to the case a perfectly black body cooling in vacuum at very low 38 .
the second group , Tables VII .
to X. and XII .
, all the nces practically the same as in the first , } ) that the surface of the ) covered with a coating of silver , polished to the highest degree to which we could attain . .
The third group , Tables XIII .
to XV .
, gives the cooling of a sooted of a highly polished silvered globe , in the same enclosure as is ) ) , but in air at about standard pressure , all at very low tennperatures .
40 .
Tables I. II .
show the diation f sooted lobe , at the ] yacuums we could reach , the of the being at about C. , and falling during experiment , which lasted to C. , tlJe envelope being maintained at the teml ) erature of liquid air ; the whole time .
These two tables placed side side in tlel .
that it may be to what extent agreement was found between } ) erim , at different circumstances being , as as possible , epeated .
The comparison shows he exactness of agreement leaves nothing to be desired .
Whateyer there is difference between the numbel .
S obtained for the emissivity is certainly to ibnted to rence in the condition as to vacuum .
This will be seeIl from themselves of nents at different vacuums .
41 .
It should be noted here that the vacuums attained in these lx certainly of a very much ] than those obtained in Dr. older experiments on this subject .
The presence of the liquid air surrounding the enclosure causes condensation of any kind of collapsible vapour which might exist in the so-called vacuous space , e.g. , vapour of mercury , or any trace of vapour of water , \amp ; c. , the existence of which would not be indicated by the Leod gauge , but which , should it exist , would certainly play its part in causing heat transference by convection .
42 .
Tables III .
, IV .
, V. give the emissivity from a sooted globe at a good vacuum , but less perfect than in the cases of Tables I. and II .
, and at gradually increasing np to CO M. , or bout h of a millimetre .
43 .
The construction of ] bless is clearly indicated by the headings .
For each expel.iment there is given the condition of the surface , the vacuum pressure , and the temperature of the enclosure .
In the second column is given the difference of temtures between globe and its surroundings at the time of the galvanometer reading .
This diffel.ence , as has been stated , is obtained from the calibration curves of the thermojunctions .
Column 3 gives the emissivity , calculated as has been explained and exemplified in Section 5 of the paper .
Column 4 gives the absolute temperature of the globe at the moment of obtaining the galvanometer reading .
Columll 5 will be explained below .
It contains what has been called " " the radiation constant calculated in accordance with STEFAN'S law .
44 .
Coming now to the tables of the second group , these ye the emissivity for the highly polished silyered globe .
Tables VII .
and VIII .
show the loss of heat at the hest vacuum we could obtain , with Sprengel pumps and cooled charcoal ; and it will be seen that the loss the sooted SUl.face under these circumstances is four times as much as from tlJe highly polished silvered surface at the same absolute temperatures of the cooling body and surroundings .
This result quite agrees with those obtained in earlier expel.iments of ) .
J. .
BOTTOMLEY .
Tables IX .
and X. give the loss from a silyered surface in a less perfect vacuum .
These , however , are of comparatively small interest .
45 .
Tables VI .
, XI .
, and XII .
, give the case of the silvered globe and of the sooted globe cooled to a temperature below that of the enclosure , and receivin heat by radiation from warmer Not many experiments of tlnis kind have been , so far as we are aware ; but , results nteresting wheu considered in colmection with the principle of " " Heat EX It may be noticed that in every case , both sooted and silvered , where the globe has been cooled below the temperature of its surroundings , and is allowed to rise in temperature by receiying heat from the walls of the enclosure , the calculated emissivity has turned out to be higher than in the reverse , and more ordinary , experiment .
It is probable that this is due to deterioration of the vacuum , on account of the escape of gases or vapours from the surrounding walls on the removal of the liquid air .
Such deterioration of the vacuum would not be indicated by the Leod gauge , as there is a very considerable time lag in the readings of the RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
gauge .
Vacuum is very slowly transmitted from poin to poin along the connecting tubes which must intervene between the gauge and the space whose condition , as to vacuum , the gauge is to , measure .
In a foot-note , p. 352 , this is referred to .
The connecting tubes have been made as short as possible , but in spite of every care in this direction this inherent trouble has not been overcome .
46 .
The third group contains three tables which show the cooling of the copper globe in air at ordinary atmospheric pressure .
In Table XIII .
the copper globe is finely sooted ; in Table XIV .
the surface of the globe is silvered and brilliantly polished ; while Table XV .
gives the cooling of ) with ] a silvered , but dull white surface .
* A comparison of these tables with the corresponding tables obes cooling in vacuum shows the part which is played by conyection in the ordinary case of bodies cooling in air .
47 .
In the following short tables , the results of such a comparison for the cases of the sooted globe and ) highly polished silvered globe are given .
The emissivities have been taken at corresponding temperatures for the globe cooling in vacuum , and cooling in air , for the two cases mentioned .
These are placed opposite the temperatures to which they belong , and Column 1 of each table gives the absolute temperatures of the cooling globe .
Column 2 gives the emissivity in vacuum Column 3 gives the number which corresponds to the emissivity in air ; while gives the ratios between the numbers in Column 3 and those in The folowing points may be noticed with regard to the numbers in these tables .
In the first place the relatively high numbers for the emissivity in air are very remarkable , and it is to be noticed that the numbers are very nearly the same for the sooted globe and the silvered globe .
The true radiation goes ost for nothing in comparison with the loss due to radiation and convection combined .
*This surface was caused by a fine deposit of on the highly polished silvered surface .
It is not in accordance with strict language to use the word " " cmissivity\ldquo ; in the case whero air is present ; but the lapse from strictness may be pardoned here for the sake of brevity .
VOL. CCVIII.\mdash ; A. 3 48 .
The results of experiments made at the beginning of last century by Sir JOHN LESLIE and others seemed to show that the total loss of heat from a body cooling in dry air was made up of radiation and convection in ab.out equal proportions .
Such a statement as this is , however , very far from representing the state of the case with regard to loss of heat with full air pressure at very low temperatures .
The loss by convection is enormously increased when the air is reduced in temperature nearly to liquefying point .
On the other hand , the loss by pure radiation from the sooted globe at very low temperatures is extremely small ; while the loss from the highly polished silvered globe is , so to speak , minute .
Thus convection may be from 18 to 25 times the pure radiation from the sooted surface , instead of being about equal to it ; while the convection is from 60 to 100 times the pure radiation from polished silver .
We propose shortly to make some special experiments on this subject .
49 .
A question of great interest is the comparison of the results we have obtained , including Dr. BOTTOMLEY'S old results , with the 4th power law , or formula of STEFAN .
According to STEFAN'S law , the emission , , of heat from a " " black\ldquo ; body is proportional to the 4th power of the absolute temperature of the cooling surface .
Taking this law in conjunction with the law of " " heat exchanges the cooling of a " " black\ldquo ; body at temperature in a " " black\ldquo ; enclosure at temperature ought to be proportional to the product of the " " emission\ldquo ; and ; and may be represented by , where is a constant , sometimes called " " the radiation constant In .
our tables it is not the " " emission\ldquo ; of heat per square centimetre which is given , but.the " " emissivity or the emission diyided by the difference of temperatures between the cooling body and the surrounding envelope .
If , then , be the emissivity between and , we have ; and , correspondingly , we shall have We have applied this formula to all the tables where the cooling of the sooted globe is given , and where the vacuum is sufficiently good to make the experiment suitable for the purpose in hand .
These numbers are given in Column 5 of the respective tables .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEMEASU ET VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
NOTE.\mdash ; By Dr. J. T. BOTTOMLEY .
Added .
, 1907.\mdash ; The foregoing paper contains an account of experiments on radiation of heat at low temperatures , carried out by Mr. F. A. KING and the writer of } ) resent note .
From the results of these experiments we have calculated the thermal emissivity , from a carefully sooted surface , at the temperature stated .
An is at the end of the paper to put these results into relation with the results of older experiments which I carried out fourteen years ago , with the same apparatus , in precisely the same way , but at considerably higher temperatures .
No comparison was , however , made in my former papers on this subject between the results of these experiments and what I may call the theoretical laws of thermal radiation , the law of STEFAN deduced from the old experiments of DULONG and PETIT .
The matter was entirely dealt with from an experimental point of view .
It seems desirable , now , that I should make an endeavour to compare our experimental results , as far as possible , both with STEFAN'S law and with results more recently obtained by other experimenters .
Careful experiments on thermal radiation have been made WIEN and LUMMER , E. ST .
JOHN , C. CHRISTIANSEN , LUMMER and PRINGSHEIM , and by F. KURLBAUM ; but I find it very difficult to compare their results with my own .
All my experiments have been made by the lmethod of cooling , which gives directly , in absolute measure , the emissivity of the of the heated body .
Almost all the other experimenters have used an indirect lnethod , and have inferred the radiatin power of the heated body from the indications of a bolometer or special form of thermojunction , determining the temperature to which this receptor is raised by the presence of the radiating body .
In a ) by KURLBAUM* the experiments were carried on by means of the bolometer .
The radiation was from the theoretical " " black body\ldquo ; used by WIEN and , i.e. , from the blackened interior of a hollow vessel , heated externally with steam , and having an opening in front through which the radiation passes ; and the bolometer , placed opposite to the opening , receives the radiation .
The transition from arbitrary to absolute units is difficult .
The method is to find the temperature to which the bolometer rises , and at which it permanently stands , when at a given distance from the heated radiating body , and then to ascertain the amount of electric current which will keep the bolometer at this temperature .
It seems difficult to put these two observations into sure relationship with each other , and to obtain the radiating power of the black body in absolute measure from experiments on the heat received by the cooler of the two bodies ; but it is very interesting to find a close agreement between the results obtained by this indirect method and those obtained simply by directly measuring the ' WIEDEbIANN'S Annalen , ' No. 65 , 1898 .
' Annalen , ' No. 56 , 1895 , p. 451 .
RADIATION IN MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
loss of heat from the warm radiator , particularly when it is considered how minute a proportion of the heat radiated in all directions falls upon the bolometer and is utilised for the measurement .
KURLBAUM also quotes in his paper the results of earlier investigators , but these experiments also are mostly indirect .
Thus the results of are deduced with the help of a comparison between the radiatin power of glass and that of the theoretical black body ; and the same applies to those of GRAETZ .
result deduced from the work of KUNDT and WARBURG depends on the conductin power of gases for heat , while numbers quoted from CHRISTIANSEN are founded on considerations still more complicated .
In each case KURLBAUM deduces the emission ( not emissivity ) of heat by a body at 10 C. to a body at or rather the heat received by a body at C. from a " " black\ldquo ; surface at 10 C. placed opposite to it .
This is taken as the " " emission\ldquo ; of heat between the absolute temperatures 27 C. and 37 C. , and STEFAN'S coefficient is deduced from these numbers .
The following table is taken from KURLBAUM'S paper , except that I have interpolated Column 3 .
The results are in Gm .
Cal .
sec. :\mdash ; In calculating the results of my experiments , following my original plan , I am not led to tabulate " " emissions\ldquo ; but " " emissiyities Hence my figures do not compare directly with those placed in the column of this table the heading .
For this reason I have interpolated Column 3 , which shows what may be taken to be the average ernissivity between the temperatures 10 C. and C. For comparison with these numbers I may quote the following table , compiled from my paper in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' for 1893 .
The numbers are taken out of tables giving emissivities at different , but extremely low , pressures .
* The number 10 .
1 is reckoned by using the value as the emission between , as given above ; ll1 is a number obtained by GRAETZ from the data given by KUNDT and WARBURG .
This number seems to bo considered as final by KURLBAUM .
I find that he makes use of it in subs6quent papers as an accepted figure , e.g. , 'WIED .
Ann Band 2 , 1900 , p. 550 ; and others quote it as .
See , e.g. , POINTING , 'Phil .
Trans 1904 , p. 526 , and POINTING and THOMSON , 'Heat .
' From these tables , given complete on p. 371 , I have extracted numbers corresponding to temperatures between the limits C. and 10 C. It will be seen that the values I have obtained for STEFAN'S coefficient are also lower than those which they have obtained at similar temperatures ; but my numbers do not differ so much from the results of GRAETZ and KUNDT and WARBURG as do those of CHRISTIANSEN and KURLBAUM from the results of the last-named observers .
The accompanying sheet of curves brings out some of the relations of the numbers under consideration in a somewhat interesting way .
Taking the Stefan coefficient to be , and taking the temperature of a sooted enclosure such as I used in my experiments to be absolute , I have calculated corresponding emissivities ; and on plotting these they form curve I. on the sheet .
To compare these with emissivities obtained by experiment , I have laid down the results of the experiments of Mr. KING and myself of dates July 5 , 1904 , and June 28 , September 18 , 1906 .
In each case the surrounding envelope was at the temperature ofliquid air .
In one case the vacuum was M. , and in the other it was absolutely unmeasurable , and as nearly perfect as can be obtained by the use of charcoal and liquid air .
I have also traced the curve for my old results of April 8 , 1890 , where the temperature of the enclosure was C. , or absolute , and the vacuum was M. Now comparing the curves for July 5 and September 18 , it will be seen that the emissivity in the case of the former at M. is rather more than double that at the nearly perfect vacuum ; and it seems not unnatural to suppose that , if I had been able to improve correspondingly the vacuum of April 8 , the emissivity would have been reduced to less than half of that which I found .
I have other evidence that this supposition is very close to the truth .
If the circumstances under which this 1890 experiment was carried out had been precisely comparable with those represented by RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .
375 curves II .
and III .
, it seems almost sure that the emissivity found would have been very close to that shown on curve I. At the present time , Mr. KING and I are endeavouring to make arrangements for carrying out experiments on the cooling of a sooted body , very much on the same lines as those on which we have been working , but with the cooling globe heated at the commencement to a temperature considerably above that of boiling water , and with the enclosure kept all the time at the temperature of liquid air .
In our experiments up till now we have only been able to work , as it were , piecemeal and in sections ; first , from the high temperature down to say C. , and then from on to the lower temperature of liquid air .
An experiment through the long range , and with the enclosure kept at the temperature of liquid air , would give data suitable for direct comparison with curve III .
It may be , however , that after all a copper globe sooted is not a true " " black\ldquo ; body , no matter how carefully prepared .
One point , among others , on which there seems great uncertainty in this connection , is the question of conduction of heat from the surface of the copper to the sooty covering .
This was a difficulty with the late Sir GEORGE STOKES , who discussed it with me on more than one occasion .
I am preparing comparative experiments to test my sooted globe against the artificial black body .
DR J. T. BOTTOMLEy AND MR. F. A. KING ON THERMAL DETAILS 0F SEPARATE EXPERIMENTS .
GROUP I.\mdash ; Sooted Globe Cooling in Vacuum .
* Copper globe with same ting of soot as in experiment of June 28 , 1906 .
Copper enclosure.leaking slightly .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERy LOW TEMPERATURES .
Group I.\mdash ; Sooted and Silvered Globes Cooling in Vacuum ( continued ) .
The copper enclosure was leaking slightly and consequently the vacuum pressure riable , The average pressure was 60 M. VOL. CCVIII.\mdash ; A. 3 DR. J. T. BOTTOMLEy AND MR. F. A. KING ON THERMAL GROUP II.\mdash ; Silvered Globe Cooling in Vacuum .
RADIATION IN ABSOLUTE MEASURE AT VERY LOW TEMPERATURES .

