XII .
" On the Loess of the Valleys of the South of England and of the Somme and the Seine .
" By JOSEPH PRESTWICHU Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author takes up and discusses a point connected with the former inquiry , but postponed in the paper he read before the Royal Society in March last , a recent visit to France having led him to form a conclusion with regard to the origin of the Loess sooner than he then expected .
On that occasion he referred the loam and brick-earth , with land and freshwater shells , which occurs in the valleys and on many of the hills in the South of England and North of France , to temporary inundations of the old rivers .
On the present occasion he shows that this deposit is intimately connected with the origin of the rivervalleys and with the fluviatile highand low-level gravels described in his last paper .
Reference is first made to the Loess of the valley of the Rhine , and the author accepts Sir Charles Lyell 's explanation that it is the result of a river-deposit ; but he does not agree in the explanation as to the mode which led to the actual results , so far as the present district is concerned .
One difficulty in understanding the spread of the loess in England and France has always been the greatly different levels on which it occurs , being present in the bottom of the valleys , and occurring on ground 100 , 200 , and 300 feet higher .
This evidently places it beyond the reach of inundations with the valleys formed as they are at present , and the prior origin of which the common covering of loess might lead one at first to infer .
But if , instead of starting at the present low levels , the valleys be taken at the level the author showed them to have had at the period of the upper highlevel gravels , it will give a base for the original river-levels of 100 to 200 feet above the existing valleys , and therefore it will reduce the difference of level of the higher deposits of loess to be accounted for , to 100 or 150 feet .
In many cases it is less , but it is still considerable .
It thus brings the whole of the loess within the possible range of inundations of the old Post-pliocene rivers at different periods of their age ; the higher beds of loess having been deposited during floods at an early period , and before the excavation of the present river-valleys , and the lower beds having been deposited after the excavation of the valley , and while some of the old meteorological conditions still prevailed .
The author shows that the loess is , in fact , like the highand lowlevel gravels , always connected with river-valleys , although it extends much beyond the limits of these beds , rising to much higher levels , and extending far beyond their limits .
He then shows that in the valley of the Somme , the difference between the highest levels of the loess and the upper gravels thus becomes reduced to 60 or 80 feet ; in the Oise , to apparently about 50 feet ; in the Seine valley , to about 120 to 150 feet ; and in the Bresle valley to 70 feet .
The loess contains the same mammalian remains and the same species of land mollusca as the gravels .
Of freshwater mollusca it contains hardly any .
Notwithstanding the extension of the loess over the higher grounds flanking the river-valleys , still such grounds are always bounded by higher hills , which seem to have formed barriers to its further spread .
It seems , therefore , that although the connexion of these several and distinct deposits is , owing to their irregular and wide spread , not always apparent , it is probable that they are aelated to the same phenomena , and that they present two phases of causes having a common and contemporaneous origin .
In all rivers subject to floods , three forms of sediment will be deposited : first , gravel and shingle in the more direct channel ; secondly , sand in the more sheltered places ; thirdly , fine silt where the floodwaters are at rest out of the direct channel .
In such manner the author conceives the highand low-level gravels and the loess of all the levels to have been formed .
------.----------------..- ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... b ' b ' b " .
Representing the Loess .
d. A high-level gravel .
c ' e ' .
Lower-level gravel .
m , n , o. The levels to which the river rose during inundations at different periods .
If , therefore , the flood-water origin of the loess be admitted , it follows that , as it is found rising from 50 to 100 feet above the highest bed of the fluviatile gravels which mark the channels of the old rivers , it gives a measure of the magnitude of the floods of that period , showing that they rose at times 50 to 100 feet above their summer low levels ; like , in fact , the Tivers in arctic regions , but to a greater extent .
Such conditions show their great erosive power , and furnish the evidence wanting on the former occasion to prove that such greater power had existed .
Though a greater rainfall was inferred from other causes , this more direct evidence was wanting .
The author mentions his discovery , on the occasion of his last visit to Paris , of freshwater shells of the genera imJineus and Valvata at two places in the low-level gravels of Paris , and again at Rouen .
He also gives a section of some remarkable contortions , which he refers to ice-action , in the high-level gravel of Charonne .
The fluviatile origin of the different gravels , as well as the greater action of ice at the higher levels , is therefore confirmed , as is also the suggestion that the volume of water carried down at the period in question by the rivers was infinitely greater thaa it now is .
At the same time the view now given both explains the origin of the loess , so long an unsettled problem , and harmonizes with the hypothesis before advanced in explanation of the accompanying general phenomena .

