290 On Mathematical Concepts of the Material World .
By A. N. Whitehead , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Received September 22 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The object of this memoir is to initiate the mathematical investigation of various possible ways of conceiving the nature of the Material World .
In so far as its results are worked out in precise mathematical detail , the memoir is concerned with the possible relations to space of the ultimate entities which ( in ordinary language ) constitute the " stuff " in space .
An abstract logical statement of this limited problem , in the form in which it is here conceived , is as follows:\#151 ; Given a set of entities which form the field of a certain polyadic many-termed ) relation R. What " axioms " satisfied by R have as their consequence that the theorems of Euclidean Geometry are the expression of certain properties of the field of R ?
If the set of entities are themselves to be the set of points of the Euclidean Space , the problem , thus set , narrows itself down to the problem of the axioms of Euclidean Geometry .
The solution of this narrower problem of the axioms of geometry is assumed Part II , Concept I ) without proof in the form most convenient for this wider investigation .
Poincare* has used language which might imply the belief that , with the proper definitions , Euclidean Geometry can be applied to express properties of the field of any polyadic relation whatever .
His context , however , suggests that his thesis is , that in a certain sense ( obvious to mathematicians ) the Euclidean and certain other geometries are interchangeable , so that , if one can be applied , then each of the others can also be applied .
Be that as it may , the problem here discussed is to find various formulations of axioms concerning R , from which , with appropriate definitions , the Euclidean Geometry issues as expressing properties of the field of R. In view of the existence of change in the Material World , the investigation has to be so conducted as to introduce , in its abstract form , the idea of time , and to provide for the definition of velocity and acceleration .
The general problem is here discussed purely for the sake of its logical ( i.e. , mathematical ) interest .
It has an indirect bearing on Philosophy by disentangling the essentials of the idea of a Material World from the * Cf .
' La Science et l'Hypothese , ' Chapter III , at the end .
On Mathematical Concepts of the Material World .
291 accidents of one particular concept .
The problem might , in the future , have a direct bearing upon Physical Science , if a concept widely different from the prevailing concept could be elaborated , which allowed of a simpler enunciation of physical laws .
But in physical research so much depends upon a trained imaginative intuition , that it seems most unlikely that existing physicists would in general gain any advantage from deserting familiar habits of thought .
Part I ( i ) consists of general considerations upon the nature of the problem and the method of procedure .
Part I ( ii ) contains a short explanation of the symbols used .
Part II is devoted to the consideration of three concepts , which embody the ordinary prevailing ideas upon the subject and slight variants from them .
The present investigation has , as a matter of fact , grown out of the Theory of Interpoints , which is presented in Part III ( ii ) , and of the Theory of Dimensions of Part IY ( i ) .
These contain two separate answers to the question : How can a point be defined in terms of lines ?
The well-known definition of the Projective Point , as a bundle of lines , assumes the Descriptive Point .
The problem is to define it without any such assumption .
By the aid of these answers , two concepts , IY and Y , differing very widely from the current concepts , have been elaborated .
Concept V , in particular , appears to have great physical possibilities .
Indeed , its chief difficulty is the bewildering variety of material which it yields for use in shaping explanations of physical laws .
It requires , however , the discovery of some appropriate laws of motion , before it can be applied to the ordinary service of physical science .
The geometry throughout is taken to be three-dimensional and Euclidean .
In Concept Y the definition of parallel lines and the " Euclidean " axiom receive new forms ; also the " points at infinity " are found to have an intimate connection with the theory of the order of points on any straight line .
The Theory of Dimensions is based on a new definition of the dimensions of a space .
The main object of the memoir is the development of the Theory of Interpoints , of the Theory of Dimensions , and of Concept V. The other parts are explanatory and preparatory to these , though it is hoped that they will be found to have some independent value .
VOL. lxxvii.\#151 ; A. Y

