]\gt ; above Ammonium Sulphate and its Alkali-metal Isomorphs .
By A. E. H. TUTTON , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.B.S. ( Received March ll , \mdash ; Read Iarch13 , 1913 .
) Ammonium felTous sulphate , , although one of the commonest double salts in everyday laboratory use , and noted for its .
excellent , comparatively stable , clearly transparent , pale greenish-blue crystals , has never yet been subjected to a thorough crystallographic and optical study .
Since the year 1859 , when a few of its principal angles were measured by Murmann and Rotter , an approximate idea of its optical properties for red , yellow , and green light of no specific wave-lengths briefly indicated , just adequately to confirm that the salt belongs to the monoclinic series of double sulphates crystallising with , no accurate measurements have been made .
The substance has , however , formed the subject of several special researches from a different point of view , such as those of von Hauer on the parallel growths of this salt on crystals of other salts of the series , of * Murmann and Rot , ' Sitzungsbr . .
Akad .
' 1859 , vol. 34 , p. 163 .
K. von , Hauer , 1860 , ) , vol. 39 , p. Axial .
Value of Murmann and Rotter , ibserved .
Habit.\mdash ; Chiefly tabular parallel to ently elongated along the edge , or ; occasionally with , ) , and more or less equally developed .
Murmann and Rotter also observed a tabular form parallel to , prolongation along the edge , and predominating development of , and with subordinated , and , the latter type being shown in fig. 1 .
The salt is thug characterised by predominating development of the pair of parallel faces of the form , which is usually only a subordinate one for the series in general .
Ihree typical crystals measured by the author are in figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 .
The types 3 and 4 are clearly tabular H. Baumhauer , ' Pogg .
Ann. .
Phys 18/ 3 , , p. 619 .
St. Meyer , ' Sitzungsber . .
Akad . .
Wiss .
Wien , ' 1899 , vol. 108 , p. G. Wullf , ' Zeitschr .
fiir Kryst 1901 , vol. 34 , p. 486 .
S E. von Fedorow , 1909 , , vol. 46 , p. 258 .
FIG. 4 .
Typical of Ammonium Ferrous Sulphate .
the edge , so that the -faces are long and narrow .
Good little faces of the hemipyramid were present on two of the measured crystals , and very narrow faces of were discovered on one but their signalimages were neither sufficiently clear nor adequately free from diffraction to be of use other than for identification purposes .
Twelve excellent crystals were measured , of which ten were small and very perfectly formed , while two were larger , but yet gave excellent single images of the Websky signal .
The crystals were selected from four different crops , which had been grown umder ideal conditions of slow deposition and freedom from disturbance .
These measured crystals in general yielded splendid]y sharp and clear images of the signal , as will be obvious from the excellent agreement between the measured and calculated in the following table of angles .
Other crops were considerably influenced by striation of the c- and -faces , an occurrence which has been shown to be general throughout this series of double salts .
Table of \mdash ; The , table presents the results of the measurements and calculations .
The values of Murmann and Rotter , and also some earlier ones of Kopp , included in the last two columns .
* Cited in Rammelsberg , ' Handbuch .
kryst .
phys .
Chemie , ' Leipzig , 1881 , vol. 1 , 364 Dr. A. E. Interfacial FIG. Crystal of Ammonium FerrousSulph.ateSulphate growing on one of Ammonium Zinc sulphate , with precisely equally developed faces , in a slightly supersaturated / solution of ammonium ferrous sulphate .
The crystal was suspended in the solution by means of a platinum wire hook .
According to the experience of both von Hauer and Wulff ammonium ferrous sulphate is the most soluble : double sulphate of the series , so that a crystal of ammonium zinc sulphate does not dissolve in a saturated solution of ammonium ferrous sulphate , but , on the contrary , the latter salt at once begins to crystallise as a layer or zonal overgrowth on the crystal of the ammonium zinc salt .
Instead , however , of the equal continuation of growth on the equally grown different faces of the latter salt , the lesulbing crystal at the end of another similar period of time shows the relative development of faces represented in which is drawn from the correct relative amounts of development already described as having been by Wulff .
First comes largely * St. Meyer , ' Sitzungsber . .
Aknd . .
Wiss .
Wien , ' 1899 , vol. 108 , , p. 613 .
G. Wulff , ' Zeitschr .
fur Kryst 1901 , vol. 34 , p. 486 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 faces of and following closely after in relative extent of development Wentions ttcrystals ommonium zevendoes rmmonium ferrous sphate pates oheHe aifference a rowth oalts ivesselThose ommonium zsually gither p in contact with the bottom of the vessel , and very rarely on , a form $ which is singularly seldom well developed , as regards extent , throughout the whole series .
Moreover , the ammonium zinc salt never grows upon an face .
On the other hand , ammonium ferrous sulphate crystals grow best of all on the -plane , as well as readily upon and but never upon .
It would thus appear that Wulff is correct as regards this explanation of the difference of habit .
and its -metal It is interesting to remark that this fact of ready growth on the -plane may be connected with St. Meyer 's observation , that when ammonium ferrous sulphate is crystallised in a magnetic field the crystals take the form of plates parallel to .
For , as this salt is highly magnetic , there can be no surprise if the earth 's magnetism should produce the same effect as an artificial magnetic field , and cause the deposition of tabular crystals parallel to Moreover , as regards habit , it has been sflown by the author that the alkali base esent , in the cases of potassium , rubidium , and caesium , has a definite influence on the habit , which is most marked in the case of the basal plane ; the faces of this form are , as a rule , relatively very large in ths potassium salt , very narrow in the caesium salt , and of intermediate size in the rubidium salt .
This influence is absent in the nonmetallic ammonium salt , other influences more free to act .
The " " setting\ldquo ; of the crystals of the saIts of this series has been gone carefully into by von Fedorow .
* The setting employed by the author , in this and all previous communications this series , is that which was given by Murmann and Rotter , and , as it is ths most natural one in precise keeping with the undoubtedly holohedral monoclinic symmetry of the crystals , was adopted by the author in the absence of any opposing reason .
It has been shown that this setting is preferable to that proposed by Wulff , when the development of faces yhout the whole series is generally considered , and V011 Fedorow confirms this view from the standpoint of the rule regarding reticular density .
Both the of Wulff and of the author agree with monoclinic symmetry , but Wulff rotates the crystal about the symmetry axis until becomes the basal plane instead of , both these planes being in the orthozone at right angles to the symmetry plane .
Von Fedorow , however , yet another setting , which he finds to agree better with the rule of reticular density .
But it is , in the opinion of the author , much to its disadvantage that the reason for it is really based on the peculiar form of the geometrical theory of crystal structure which has been anced by von Fedorow , and particularly on that part of it which is not so rrounded as that which refers only to the derivation of the 230 possible point-systems concerned in crystal structure ; this more part refers to the nature of what the points represent , and to von Fedorow 's idea that all crystals are of either cubic or hexagonal type or of one of those types more or less deformed , which he terms pseudo-cubic * E. von Fedorow , ' .
fur Kryst 1909 , , p. 258 .
' Journ. Chem. Soc 1893 , , p. 337 ; see fig. 1 , p. 343 , for stereographic projection .
versed , he regards the various poles from an altogether different stand .
point .
He ignores the monoclinic symmetry , except as being a deformation .
in one direction , and states that the crystal complex appears to be a hexagonaloid one of cubic type , that is , one of trigonaloid character , which he expresses , in accordance with a method of concise symbols which he S employs , thus : The letter in the top line indicates the octahedral main structure ; the 3 in front of it represents the trigonaloid character , which is similar to the .
rhombohedral one of calcite , but considerably deformed in one direction ) from the form of the regular rhombohedron ; the signifies the number of degrees of monoclinic deformation , on the side of the trigonal axis that is , the angle between the centre of projection , which in a truly trigonal crystal like calcite is occupied by the pole ( 111 ) , and the actual position of the pole of the possible face which is analogous to ( 111 ) on the deformed crystal .
The central number represents the number of degrees in the principal angle ( 111 ) : ( 001 ) , that is , between the basal plane and one of the faces of the primary rhombohedron , on the supposition of trigonaloid character and after imaginary re-deformation of ( 111 ) back to true trigonal symmetry , that is , to the centre .
The lower number represents the ular deviation from .
of the poles on the primitive circle , that is , of the poles in trigonal symmetry would correspond to and ; these are adjacent faces of the two varieties of hexagonal in a truly trigonal crystal , and are in the latter apart , bub in the neighbourhood of ( the angle ) in this series of double sulphates in ammonium ferrous sulphate ) .
Von Fedorow gives the following transformation equations for the conversion of the indices , of any face according to the monoclinic setting of the author , to the corresponding indices according to von Fedorow 's onaloid setting : or the determinants : without pole-dots : { 111 } the basal plane ; four .
of the six faces of the hexagonal prism of the first order , for only two , and , are ; generally developed , which are the -faces ( 100 ) and of the author 's : monoclinic setting , the other four faces , , , and , having only been seeh developed to measurable extent on one or two crystals of six of the 38 ated salts of the series as the minute faces namely , sulphates ) ; and two of the .
three faces of the primary rhombohedron itself { 100 } , for only one , ( 001 ) , is present , while ( 010 ) and ( 100 ) are generally entirely absent , and ) only been seen by the author as minute faces ( the -faces ) on three of the 38 salts of the series investigated , namely , KNiRbCu- , and -sulphates .
there , which is even more significant , while it is true that all six faces of the hexagonal prism of the second order ) are developed , four of them are the largely and generally predominatingly developed faces of the primary prism of the author 's monoclinic setting , while the other two are vely small and frequently absent faces of the clinopinakoid ; that is , two clearly different and very unequa ] developed forms make up the six faces which von Fedorow proposes to consider as a hexagonaloid prism .
Again , the cleavage is only developed parallel to one plane , that of the pair of parallel faces of , that 1913 .
] Sulphate and its Atkali-metal Isomorphs .
371 only parallel to one of the three planes of the pseudo-rhombohedron of 4 von Fedorow .
Thus , while it may be true that the faces of the pseudo-rhombohedron possess the maximum reticular densit still there appear to be so many deficiencies as regards development of primary planes , either as Iaces or cleavage planes , that the author much .
to aocept the simple and obvious monoclinic symmetry of both faces and as determinative of the setting ; and as Wulffs setting is still less to be preferred , both for the reasons given by the author and for the additional ones also advanced by von Fedorow , it is considered to retain the setting which has been adopted throughout all these investigations .
If a clearly hexagonal habit were presented , and all the essential fnces well developed , such as in the cases of the simple rhombic sulphates and selenates of the alkalies , where the differences from exactly are only a .
few minutes , the presence of a pseudo-hexagonal spaoe-lattice could with reason be accepted , and in the descriptions of those salts the author has : given the dimensions of the elementary cells of the space-lattice on sucl } an assumption .
But in this monoclinic series of double salts such is not the case . .
Etch-Figures.\mdash ; The investigation by Baumhauer* of the ures produced by a small quantity of water on the principal faces afforded results conclusively indicating the presence of holohedral monoclinic symmetry .
Besides ammonium ferrous sulphate two other salts of the series were studied , namely , potassium and ammonium nickel sulphates .
Two illustrations are reproduced from Baumhauer 's memoir , in figs. 8 and 9 , but with his lettering of the faces replaced by the letters now assigned to those faces .
FIG. 8.\mdash ; Etch-figures on Ammonium Ferrous Sulphate .
Fig. 8 shows the character of the etch-figures on the predominating taces of in the of ammonium ferrous sulphate .
Fig. 9 reproduces those * H. Baumhauer , Pogg .
Ann. .
Phys 1873 , vol. 160 , p. 619 .
presence of a digonal axis of symmetry perpendicular to the plane of symmetry ( parallel to the shorter edges of the page ) .
They possess , consequently , both the elements of monocliuic , and therefore the crystals are holohedral .
Moreover , the etch-figures are quite different from such as are usually afforded by a crystal of trigonal symmetry .
on of the Constants of the Four Salts of the Group.\mdash ; The crystal-angles , axial angles , and axial ratios of the potassium , rubidium , , and ammonium ferrous sulphates are compared in the next two tables .
As the monoclinic axial angle , its value for the ammonium salt is almost identical with that for the caesium salt .
It is noteworthy that a like fact has been observed in all the other groups yet studied , the sulphate and selenate groups containing zinc and nesium respectively , and the magnesium group of double chromates .
With reference to the axial ratios , it is only possible to infer that the values for the ammonium salt are so similar to those for the analogous alkali-metal salts that true isomorphism undoubtedly exists .
It is somewhat singular that the -values are identical for three of the salts , potassium , rubidium , and ammonium ferrous sulphates .
lsomorphs .
373 From the table of crystal angles and a derived the following facts : In the cases of angular change introduced by tho replacem occurs in the same direction ( increase or dec : or caesium is the replacing element , and th , and occur in cases where th effect of the replacement of potassium by genera ] an alteration in the crystal angles of It is thus clear that both the average and the maximum changes of angle which occur when potassium is replaced by ammonium are almost exactly identical with those evoked by the introduction of caesium instead I of potassium , and twice as great as when rubidium is the replacing element .
Identical conclusions were also drawn from the investigation of the $ magnesium and zinc groups of double sulphates and selenates .
They 2 accord completely with the eutropic character of the relationships between the three alkali-metal salts , and with the merely isomorphous and not eutropic nature of the occurrence of the ammonium salt in the group .
As , regards the average and maximum changes of crystal angle , the three eutropic salts show direct proportionality to the atomic weights of the three metals .
Volume .
Relative Density.\mdash ; Seven determinations of specific gravity were made with small perfect crystals selected from five differeIlt crops , by the Retgers immersion method , using a mixture of methylene iodide and benzene as the .
immersion liquid .
The following results for the heaviest crystal in each ca se- were obtained:\mdash ; 1913 .
] Density f IIIIV .
1.86168627 : 1.8639 1.8635 1.8644 The value accepted for is thus Earlier values ( none of then ] recent ) by various workers have varied as much as from to .
Considering the excellent unanimity of the above results this wide difference is difficult to understand .
Iotecular Volume .
Molecular Distance Ratios ( topic axial ratios : of the of Potassiurn , Rubidium , Ferrous Sulphates.\mdash ; In order to render valid all comparisons between the volume constants of these four salts of the ferrous iron group , a series of redeterminations of the specific gravities by the Retgers immersion method have been carried out for the three alkali-metal salts ; for the earlier determinations recorded in the author 's 1896 memoir*were carried out by the pyknometer method , which is liable to afford lower values for the density , owing to the result being an average one for a large number of crystals in the finely powdered condition , whereas the Retgers method affords the density of the heaviest and therefore most cavity-free crystal .
The results are yiven below : Potassium Ferrous Sulphate , I. Density for 2 1797 For II .
, , , , III .
, , , , .
, , 2 .
, , 2.1751 In determination I the heaviest crystal showed a tendency to rise in the immersion liquid , and in determination III to sink .
In determinations II and the heaviest crystal remained in the middle of the liquid .
The accepted value is therefore , for Rubidium Ferrous Sulphate , I. Density for For II .
, , The accepted value is thus for * Journ. Chem. Soc 1896 , , p. 344 .
It will be clear from this table that the molecular volume and topic axial ratios of the ammonium salt are very close to those of the rubidium salt , a result in keeping with the facts derived from the zinc and magnesium sulphate , selenate , and chromate groups previously investigated .
As regards the molecular volume , the value for ammonium ferrous sulphate is about one unit higher than that for the rubidium salt , and in the oases of the topic axial ratios the values for and are slightly higher and for very slightly lower .
These small differenoes between the volume constants of the ammonium and rubidium salts are very much smaller than the differences between the values for the three alkali-metal salts ; between the potassium and caesium salts there is a difference of molecular volume of no less than units , and between the potassium and rubidium salts of units .
It is thus clear that the replacement of potassium by .
ammonium accompanied by practically the same amount of extension of the crystal structure as when rubidium is introduced for potassium , and by a very much smaller change of volume than when caesium is introduced instead of potassium .
Obviously also , there is scarcely any change at all of volume or orientation of the Axes of the Optical Ellipsoid .
rubidium , and caesium successively replace the ammonium , the rotation being a function of the atomic weight of the alkali metak in the cases of these 3 ?
three metallic salts .
These rules are exactly similar to those found for the magnesium and zinc groups , both double sulphates and double selenates .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; Six excellent -prisms were ground by means of the cutting and grinding goniometer , rom perfectly clear and transparent crystals , selected from three different crops .
Each prism two :$ indices directly .
three of them gave and , two yielded and , and the sixth prism furnished and .
The results are compiled in the next : According to Murmann and Rotter the -indices for red , yellow , and- .
green light are lespectively , and The intermediate index , corrected to a vacuum ( correction ) , is expressed for any wave-length by the following general formula : The -inchces are also reproduced by the forruula if the constant is reduced by , and the -indices if it is increased by 1913 .
Sulphate and its Alkati-metal Isomorphs .
379 Refractive Indices of Ammonium Ferrous Sulphate .
Mean of , and for Na light Change of Refraction by Rise of Temperature.\mdash ; Determinations of refractive index at C. were carried out with two of the prisms , which furnished and , and and respectively .
The results are combined in the table ; the two series of -values were practically identical , the greatest deviation for any one wave-length being only , so that the table is a very trustworthy one .
These values are lower than those for the ordinary temperature , the -values being on the average lower , the -values smaller , and the -values less .
Comparison of the Refractive Indices of the Salts of the Iron The indices of ammonium , potassium , rubidium , and caesium ferrous sulphates are compared in the next table .
1913 .
] Sulphate and its -metal lsomorphs .
381 -axis of the potassium salt is taken as unity , in order in the latter case to llipsoidsascertain tffect o replacing one alkali base by another on the dimensions : Axial Ratios of the Optical Indicatrix .
RbFeKFe sulphate .
9979:1 : 00390.9970 : 1:1.0050 RbFe , atios.tical Velocity Epsoidp : : FeNH F These numbers unite in indicating that the dimensions of the optical ellipsoid , whether it be the indicatrix or the velocity ellipsoid , in the case of the #L$ ammonium salt of the iron group lie between those of the rubidium and caesiUm salts , and when the total change of dimensions is considered , as given by the right-hand set of ratios for each ellipsoid , the values lie much closer to those of the rubidium salt than to those of the caesium salt .
It must be remembered , however , that the ellipsoid rotates about the symmetry axis on each replacement , in the order given in the table on p. 378 and illustrated in fig. 11 .
Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; These constants have been calculated for the ammonium salt , from the specific gravity and the refractive indices , and the values are compared in the next three tables with the corresponding values for the three alkali-metal salts of the iron }roup .
These latter values have been recalculated , employing the new values for the specific gravities given in this memoir , the results of the redetiations by the immersion method .
Table of Specific Refraction and Dispersion ( Lorenz ) .
VOL LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. 2 From these tables the following facts are to be derived:\mdash ; } The specific refraction and dispersion of the ammonium salt are considerably higher than those of the alkali-metal salts of the group , which three latter salts exhibit values progressively diminishing with the atomic weight of the alkali metal .
The molecular dispersion of the ammonium salt lies between the values for the rubidium and caesium salts , and nearer to those of the caesium salt .
The molecular refraction of the ammonium salt , whether calculated by means of the formula of Lorenz or by that of Gladstone and Dale , is very close to , and very slightly higher than , the as regarda direction in the crystal and the optical ellipsoid ) value for the rubidium salt .
The mean molecular refraction , in which the influence of direction in : the crystal is eliminated , follows precisely the same rule .
The rule is , indeed , common to all the double sulphate , selenate and chromate groups of } this series yet investigated .
Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; Three excellent pairs of section-plates to the first and second median lines were obtained by grinding , with the aid of the cutting and grinding goniometer , each pair from crystals belonging second median 1ates 1nterference figures iirst eations opider 1ines feasurement oEand sswhen immersed iwith vinner reparate cThey arnished mgnificent interference figuresb prought quite uuine , with hates 1oThe riven i Apparent Optic Axial Angle in Air , , of AmFe Sulphate .
Murmann and Rotter obtained for the middle part of the spectrum .
Optic Axial Angles of the Iron Group .
The optic axial angle of ammonium ferrous sulphate is thus slightly larger that of caesium ferrous sulphate , which is the largest of the optic axial angles of the alkali-metal salts .
This was also found to be the case in the zinc double sulphate group , while in the corresponding zinc double selenate group the value for the ammonium salt was found to be htly less than that for the caesium salt .
In all three groups the value for the ammonium green crystals are distinguished from other members of the series by the exceptionally predominant development of the orthopinakoid of the second order S The same facts have been found to apply in this double sulphate iron #S group of salts of the series as were deduced from the previous investigalions of the magnesium and zinc double sulphate and selenate groups , *namely , that the ammomum salt of any group is truly a member of the isomorphous .
series , but not eutropic with the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts of : the group , which three latter salts are strictly eutropic with one another , and follow the rule of progression of the crystal properties with the atomic weight of the alkali metaL The \mdash ; Small but definitely measurable changes in the magnitude of the crystal angles occur when the potassium in potassium 9 ferrous sulphate is replaced by ammonium , and they are mostly in the same direction as those which accompany the replacement of potassium by either rubidium or caesium .
Both the average and the maximum changes of interfacial angles for the ammonium interchange ( for potassium ) are almost exactly the same as for the replacement of potassium by caesium , and twice as great as when rubidium is introduced instead of potassium ( the average and maximum of angle being directly proportional to the atomic weights of the alkali metals ) .
Also the monoclinic axial angle ( the axial angle , between the vertical and inclined axes ) of ammonium ferrous sulphate is almost identical with that of caesium ferrous sulphate .
The Morphological Axial Ratios of the ammonium salt are very similar to those of the analogous potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts , and adequately so to prove true isomorphism in the usually accepted sense , that is , subject to the small variations of crystal angles referred to in the last paragraph .
The Constants.\mdash ; The molecular volume and topic axial ratios of 'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1905 , , p. 1123 .
clusions of a similar nature derived from the previous work on the magnesium and zinc groups .
of the al Ellipsoid.\mdash ; Rotation of the optical ellipsoid about the symmetry axis occurs when one base is replaced by another in this iron group of salts , and the order of the rotation is : Ammonium salt , { 9 potassium salt , rubidium salt , and caesium salt .
The direction is forwards from the vertical axis , to which one of the axes ( or a ) of the ellipsoid is adjacent ( only removed ) in the case of the ammonium salt .
Befractive \mdash ; The whole of the refractive indices for all wavelengths of visible light , and also the mean index , of ammonium ferrous sulphate are near to and slightly higher than those of rubidium ferrous sulphate , and in no case so high as for the caesium salt .
Also the dovlte refraction for the ammonium salt lies between the values of this constant for the rubidium and caesium salts , but in this case nearer to the value for the caesium salt .
The dimensions of the axes of the optical ellipsoid also lie between thos6 for the rubidium and caesium salts , and much nearer to those of the rubidium salt .
The Molecular Optical Constants.\mdash ; The specific refraction and dispersion of the ammonium salt are.much higher than those of the alkali-metal salts , which three latter salts arrange themselves as regards these constants in the $ ; 3 1913 .
] and its Isomorphs .
387 order of the atomic weights of the metals .
The molecular dispersion of the : ammonium salt lies between that of the rubidium and caesium salts , and nearer to that of the latter .
The molecular refraction corresponding to each of the three refractive indices , and also the mean molecular refraction , ) , for the ammonium salt is very nearly the same as , and a very slight amount higher than , the corresponding value for the rubidium salt .
All these results have been experimentally shown to be independent of the temperature .
Opiic Axial Angles.\mdash ; The optic axial angle of ammonium ferrous sulphate is slightly larger than the largest for the metallic salts , that of caesium ferrous sulphate , and the dispersion , both of the optic axes and of the median lines in the symmetry , is small between the two extremes of the spectrum , and very similar for all four salts of the group .
Chief Condusion.\mdash ; The principal conclusion to be emphasised , as the result of this investigation , and in further coufirmation of the deductions from the previous investigations of the zinc and magnesium groups of double sulphates and selenates , and those still more recently*derived from the study of the magnesium group of double chromates , is the following : The ammonium salts are truly isomorphous with the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts of this large monoclinic series of salts having the general formula , but not eutropic with them , the three latter salts alone being eutropic ( following the law of progression with atomic weight of the alkah metal ) amongst themselves ; also , it is a singular and very interesting fact that scarcely any change in structural dimensions occurs when ammonium and rubidium are interchanged for each other , that is , when ten atoms replace two atoms , for they do so without appreciably altering the dimensions of the unit cell of the space-lattice .
'Mineralogical Magazine , ' 1912 , vol. 16 , p. 169 .

