XXIV .
On the structure of the poisonous fangs of serpents .
By Thomas Smith , Esq. F. R. S. Read June 4 , l8i8 .
W HEN the poisonous fangs of serpents are attentively examined , a slit or suture may be observed extending along the convex side , from the foramen at the base to the aperture near the point .
( Plate XXII .
A. B. C. D. ) This is a consequence of an unusual , and hitherto , I believe , entirely unnoticed structure , resulting from the mode of formation of the tube through which the poison flows .
My attention was called to this structure , by having lately received from my friend Mr. HERBERT RYDER , the assay master to the mint at Madras , the bones of the skull of a cobra de capello .
I had some years since noticed the slit running along the convex side of the fang , in making a preparation of the head of the common viper of this country , in which it is distinctly seen when magnified ; nevertheless , it seems to have been overlooked by all the numerous authors who have written upon the subject of the venomous fangs of the viper , and who , as far as structure is concerned , do not appear to have advanced beyond PLINY , to whom , and even anterior to whose time , the circumstance of their being tubular was well known .
All teeth being formed from a pulp , which has the shape that the tooth itself is destined to retain , it has probably been imagined that the tube of the poisonous fangs of serpents was produced by a perforation passing through the pulp ; this is not , however , the case , the tube being completely external , and formed by a deep longitudinal depression on the surface of the pulp .
In order to render this more clear , I must here observe that a slight longitudinal furrow , or depression , is to be seen on all the teeth of the cobra de capello ; on those which are nearest to the poisonous fangs it is most evident , and occupies the convex side of their curvature ; it however is confined entirely to the parietes of the tooth , and does not at all affect the form of its cavity .
But in the poisonous fangs , this depression is sunk deep into the substance of the tooth , and occupies a portion of the space , which in the others is allotted to the cavity which contains that part of the pulp which remains when the tooth is completely formed ; and the edges of the depression being brought together along the greater part of the tooth , form the slit or suture that I have before described , but , being kept at a distance at both extremities , there results a foramen at the base and at the apex .
That this is a correct view of the mode in which the poisonous tube is formed , receives additional support from what I have observed in a species of the genus hydrus , of ScNwEIDER .
In this serpent , as in many others nearly allied to it ( les hydres of M. CuvIFR ) , there are simple teeth on the same bone which supports the poisonous fangs .
These teeth so much resemble the fangs , that it requires a very close investigation to distinguish between them ; and this arises from the simple tooth having not only a longitudinal furrow exactly resembling the edges of the slit of the poisonous 479 fang , but also a very visible cavity at the base , where the foramen occurs in the others ; and I have even found a fine tube in a tooth of this sort ; it was however confined to the parietes , and did not affect the cavity of the tooth .
To this gradation from a slight superficial furrow to a deep depression , may be added the fact , that no traces of either are observable in the teeth of those serpents which are not armed with venomous fangs : this I found to be the case in a large species of boa .
As a consequence of the structure that I have described , if a horizontal section be made of a poisonous fang , in which the edges of the longitudinal depression are rounded , we shall have a cylindrical cavity ( the poison tube ) nearly surrounded by a semilunar one ( the cavity which contains the pulp ) .
This is shown in the annexed drawings of the fangs of the cobra de capello .
( PI .
XXII .
E. F. G. H. ) If , however , the edges of the depression should be angular ( as in the rattle snake ) , the horizontal section shows a figure somewhat different , the poison tube being more completely surrounded by the cavity which contains the pulp .
This is shown in the drawing by the section of a fang of an unknown species of serpent , which has exactly the same form as that of the rattle snake , but is twice as large .
( P1 .
XXII .
I. K. ) In sections taken at different parts of the fantg , the proportions between the poison , tube and the cavity which contains the pulp will be different ; the latter greatly increasing towards the base of the tooth ; and near the apex the'poison tube only will be seen , the fang at that part being solidd In a section also of a coimpletely formed fang , the poison tube , at its anterior part , will be closely invested by the thickened 478 parietes of the cavity which contains the pulp ; this cavity however is never obliterated , but exists in all the teeth of serpents , even when they have arrived at their full growth .
In the fangs , when completely formed , the edges of the slit , or suture , are frequently soldered together ; when they are angular , so large a surface comes in contact , that they appear to be united by bony matter ; in the cobra de capello , where they are rounded , though in very close contact , they do not cohere .
In the viper , the slit seems filled up by the enamel , which being nearly transparent , a bristle in the poison tube may be seen through it , and causes an appearance as if the slit was open .
In the first case , therefore , there is no channel observable on the exterior of the tooth ; the line of junction , however , of the edges of the slit is very distinctly marked : in the cobra de capello there is an external furrow from the foramen of the base to that of the apex , owing to the edges of the slit being rounded ; the same is the case in those species of hydrus that I have examined .
I should observe , that the poison tube is not coated with enamel ; for the membrane or capsule in which the tooth is formed , and from the inner surface of which it is well known that the enamel is deposited , does not pass between the edges of the slit into the poison tube ; as , however , it passes over the slit , it will cover it with enamel , and in some cases , by that means alone , the edges become soldered together .
As some excuse for the errors which may be found in this paper , I must observe , that many of my observations have been confined to small teeth of a species of hydrus , which I was therefore obliged to dissect under the microscope .
474 I have to thank Sir EVERARD HoME for the great interest that he has taken in the object of my enquiry , and for the assistance which he has afforded me ; on the value of which it would be needless to enlarge before the Members of this Society .
The drawings annexed to the paper will suffciently attest my obligations to Mr. CLIFT .
I owe much to him , in addition , for the zeal with which he exhibited to me every thing in the Museum of which he has the custody , that was likely to promote my views , and for information upon several points , which was required in the progress of the investigation .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE XXII .
a , b , c , d , are representations of the poisonous fangs of the cobra de capello , in four stages of their growth .
A , B , C , D , are magnified representations of the same .
A , is a full grown fang firmly fixed to the bone .
B , is not quite perfect , the lower part of the foramen at the base not being yet formed .
C , in this a very small part of the foramen is formed .
D , the part of the tooth above the foramen alone appears .
E , F , G , are end views of B , C , D , showing the poison tube nearly surrounded by the cavity which contains the pulp , and the proportions between them , at three different parts of the tooth .
H , a section made by sawing the full grown fang A , just above the lower foramen , showing the rounded edges of the slit , which consequently leave a slight channel along the tooth .
I , mag nified representations of sections of the fangs of an unknown species of serpent , which have exactly the same form as those of the rattle snake .
I , is a section of a young fang taken about the middle : in this stage of growth the cavity which contains the pulp almost entirely surrounds the poison tube , and the edges of the depression which form the suture are seen to be angular , and present so large a surface to each other , that the suture is completely filled up even in this early stage of growth .
K , is a section of a full grown fang of the same species of serpent at the same part as the preceding .
Here the cavity of the pulp is seen greatly contracted from the more advanced stage of growth .

