83 Results of the Interaction of Mercury with Alloys of other Metals .
By J. W. Mallet , F.R.S. , University of Virginia .
( Received August 27 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1907 .
) It is well known that alloying metals with each other often modifies in a remarkable way their several relations to acids and other non-metallic reagents .
Examples of this are afforded by the addition of silver to platinum , rendering the latter soluble , along with the former , in nitric acid \#151 ; by the great resistance to the action of aqua regia on platinum when alloyed with rhodium or iridium\#151 ; and by the solubility in cold , somewhat dilute sulphuric acid , of copper in alloy with nickel and zinc as common " German silver .
" It seemed interesting to see what the behaviour of fluid metallic mercury would be in relation to alloys of metals solid at common temperatures .
For instance , if an alloy of two metals\#151 ; one of them when alone amalgamating readily with mercury and the other not\#151 ; should be exposed to the action of mercury , would the former resist amalgamation or the latter be rendered amalgamable , or would each continue to behave as though the other were absent and the mercury take up the one and leave the other intact ?
Some experiments of this kind , recently made , seem worth recording , as little or nothing bearing upon the question appears in the principal handbooks of chemistry .
It suggested itself first to examine the case of an alloy of two metals presenting evidence of chemical combination between them , not merely of solid solution .
Such a case is that of the alloy of tin and platinum which is produced by fusing the two together , the act of union being attendee !
with sudden and very great elevation of temperature , exhibiting brilliant incandescence , and the product being found to have completely changed in respect to cohesion , the two thoroughly malleable metals giving rise to a highly brittle alloy easily crushed to powder .
Tin-platinum Alloy .
For about 5 grammes of platinum in the form of rather thick foil a piece of pure tin was weighed off representing a trifling excess over the quantity needed for two atoms of tin to one of platinum , this excess being intended to allow for a slight loss of tin by oxidation .
The tin was closely wrapped in the platinum foil , and the whole was rapidly heated by a blast-lamp flame .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; A. G 84 Dr. J. W. Mallet .
Results of the Interaction of [ Aug. 27 , Complete fusion took place in a moment , with vivid incandescence .
The button of alloy , after cooling , was moderately hard , very brittle , and easily reduced to powder in an iron mortar .
It contained : platinum , 45*26 per cent. ; tin , 54*74 per cent. The specific gravity of the button , taken before crushing , was found to be but 10*72 , notably below the calculated value , so that if there were no cavities\#151 ; none were observed on crushing\#151 ; there must have been considerable expansion in the act of union of the metals .
The finely pulverised alloy , with about five times its weight of pure mercury , was at once placed in a stoppered glass cylinder , and the vessel was vigorously shaken from time to time for several days .
No sign of amalgamation appeared .
The larger part of the mercury was run off from the seemingly quite unaltered powder , carefully freed from any trace of the latter by skimming , and distilled at a temperature a little below the boiling point in a hard glass tube , sweeping away the vapour by a current of air produced by a jet pump .
No visible residue was left , so that the tin had been completely protected by the platinum from amalgamation , and neither metal had gone into solution .
The surface of the particles of the original alloy powder showed under the microscope no sign of adhering mercury .
On treating this unaltered powder of the platinum-tin alloy with another portion of mercury to which a very little metallic sodium had been added , amalgamation took place at once , and the amalgam began to adhere to the surface of the glass vessel .
The soft amalgam thus formed seemed to contain entangled in it the larger part of the powder , but very little was present in true solution , as on straining off the fluid portion through chamois leather and distilling , only a trifling residue was obtained , containing but a few milligrammes of platinum and tin .
The main mass of the buttery amalgam left behind on straining through the leather was treated with moderately diluted nitric acid until all action ceased .
It left undissolved pulverulent grey platinum , and a heavy , finely granular residue , of crystalline appearance under the microscope , greyish white and with metallic lustre .
This latter was an alloy of platinum and tin which , like the bulk of the original fused alloy , was not acted upon by mercury .
Heated in a stream of dry chlorine gas , it gave off tin as chloride and left metallic platinum , weighings showing the composition to be : platinum , 48*08 per cent. ; tin , 51*92 per cent. ; agreeing pretty well with the not very probable formula Pt4Sn7 , which requires platinum , 48*33 per cent. ; tin , 51*67 per cent. It is by no means certain that this material was homogeneous .
It would seem that even in an amalgam which as a whole is liquid and Mercury with Alloys of other Metals .
1907 .
] mobile , the mass may be viewed as consisting of a solid part or phase\#151 ; the solid metal moistened by mercury\#151 ; and a liquid part or phase\#151 ; mercury holding the solid metal in solution\#151 ; these parts mechanically separable by straining , or often simply by gravity on standing at rest .
In the material just referred to nearly all of the tin and platinum seems to have existed in the former of these states .
Silver-platinumAlloy .
Platinum as heavy foil and pure silver ( " proof silver " of the United States Mint ) were weighed off in proportions representing four atoms of silver and one of platinum , and fused together in an assay crucible at a temperature high enough to render the alloy perfectly fluid .
The ingot which was somewhat hard , but quite malleable , was rolled out to strips not more than about a tenth of a millimetre in thickness .
These strips weighing about 12 grammes , were cut up into small bits , washed well with ether to remove any traces of oil from the rolls , dried , put into a stoppered glass cylinder , and shaken with about five times their weight of pure mercury , the vigorous shaking being repeated at intervals for several days .
The mercury began almost at once to wet the surface of the solid alloy , and after a few hours practically all running mercury had been soaked up and the strips began to crumble .
About half as much more mercury was added , and in three or four days an apparently smooth buttery amalgam had been formed .
Almost from the first the amalgam began to adhere with remarkable firmness to the surface of the glass , and before long the whole interior surface of the cylinder was coated with a mirror-like deposit as perfect as that usually obtained by means of silver reduced by aldehyde or Kochelle salt , and remarkably persistent .
The perfectly smooth buttery amalgam , containing no visibly solid fragments of the strips of alloy , was strained by squeezing through chamois leather .
The solid part which was left behind hardened somewhat on standing , but not nearly as much as amalgam of silver alone , and showed some tendency to crumble .
Applied to the surface of clean platinum foil it at once produced amalgamation of the latter .
A specimen of simple silver amalgam was strained through chamois leather , and the pasty solid residue was in like manner applied to the surface of clean platinum foil .
At first , even with rubbing , no sign of amalgamation of the foil appeared , but on leaving the lump of silver amalgam resting on the surface for an hour or two and then sliding it to one side , a mark was G 2 86 Dr. J. W. Mallet .
Results of the Interaction of [ Aug. 27 , left showing where the amalgam had lain , and after 24 hours there was distinct amalgamation of the surface .
This increase of adhesiveness given to mercury by the presence of silver displays an interesting additional hit of parallelism between silver and the alkaline metals .
Bemoving the lump of amalgam and rubbing the surface of the platinum foil vigorously with a cloth , there was left a visible stain , which changed somewhat in lustre but did not disappear on heating to low redness , showing that silver as well as mercury had adhered to the surface .
Whether this silver had been carried down into the platinum by the amalgamation ( as is most probable ) or was partially alloyed with it by the heating to drive off mercury , the stain did not entirely disappear on treatment with nitric acid .
About 30 grammes of the fluid part of the amalgam from the silver-platinum alloy , which had been strained through chamois leather , was carefully distilled in a stream of air , keeping somewhat below the boiling point to avoid any mechanical loss by spattering , and left behind 60 milligrammes of solid residue .
This was " parted " by repeated boiling with concentrated sulphuric acid .
The results of the parting show the following comparison between the composition of the original silver-platinum alloy and of this portion of it which had been taken into solution by the mercury :\#151 ; Original Dissolved alloy .
by mercury .
Platinum ... ... ... ... ... .
31*09 18*78 Silver ... ... ... ... ... ... .
68*91 81*22 It thus appears that , unlike the case of the tin-platinum alloy , in which the platinum prevented the tin being amalgamated , in the silver-platinum alloy the silver brings about solution of the platinum by mercury , although in smaller proportion than that in which it was present in the original alloy .
Copper-tin Alloy .
It seemed desirable , in the third place , to see what effect , if any , upon amalgamation would be produced by alloying two metals , each of which is by itself readily taken up by mercury ; and such metals were selected as we have reason to believe , from the experiments of Sir William Bamsay and others , are simply dissolved by mercury , and in the condition of monatomic molecules .
With this in view , a specimen of good speculum metal , made with two parts of copper and one of tin , and hence near Cu4Sn in composition , extremely brittle , was reduced to very fine powder in an iron mortar ; 10 grammes of this was placed in a stoppered glass cylinder , about five times as much pure Mercury with Alloys of other Metals .
1907 .
] mercury added , and the whole well shaken at intervals for several days .
At first there was no sign of amalgamation , but in a few hours this began to appear , and at the end of 24 hours the greater part of the solid alloy had been taken up by the mercury .
There was no adhesion of amalgam to the surface of the glass .
About half as much more mercury was added , and after four or five days , with many shakings , there remained but a very little solid alloy in powder .
This was carefully removed from the surface of the seemingly smooth , buttery , or thickly fluid amalgam , and the latter squeezed in chamois leather .
Forty or fifty grammes of the fluid portion which had passed through the pores of the leather was carefully distilled , guarding against spattering .
It left but 2 or 3 milligrammes of solid residue , in which both copper and tin were present , the former probably in rather larger proportion than in the original alloy , but the quantity of residue was too small for an accurate analysis .
The pasty amalgam which was retained by the leather showed a strong tendency to crumble , and when examined with the microscope showed numerous particles of the solid speculum metal which had not fully blended with the mercury .
It is evident , therefore , that alloying these two metals\#151 ; copper and tin\#151 ; together , greatly diminishes the readiness and extent with which they unite with mercury when they are separately exposed to its action .
On the whole , these experiments show that the relations of mercury to alloys are not the same\#151 ; at any rate for those tried\#151 ; as to the component metals taken separately .
Many other experiments of the general nature of those now recorded suggest themselves as worth trying .
Thus it would be well to examine the behaviour towards mercury of solid alloys , including one of the alkaline metals , the amalgams of which are so peculiar in character , to try the effect of mercury upon two or more alloys of the same metal in widely different proportions , and to extend such experiments to more complex alloys containing three , four , or a larger number of solid metals .

