406 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , its lines ; nor did cobalt , even when a bar of cobalt was used as the positive pole .
Tin , palladium , and platinum gave no reversals .
It is worthy of remark in regard to the difficulty of obtaining substances chemically pure , that we found that carbon poles which had been for some hours ignited in a current of chlorine and further intensely heated in the arc , while chlorine was passed through perforations down their axes , still showed in the arc , of course without any crucible being employed , a multitude of lines , amongst which the so-called carbon lines and those of calcium and iron were conspicuous .
Mr. Perkin , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of \#163 ; 916 14s .
7f/ .
, carried from the preceding year , amount to \#163 ; 9,048 5s .
1 d. , and that the total expenditure in the same period , including purchase of stock , amounts to \#163 ; 7,783 18s .
5 leaving a balance at the Banker 's of \#163 ; 1,222 12s .
, and \#163 ; 41 14s .
8 in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
The Secretary read the following Lists:\#151 ; December 1 , 1879 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary .
On the Some List .
Peyton Blakiston , M.D. Edward Blore , LL. D. , F.S.A. Charles Brooke , M.A. , F.R.C.S. John Allan Broun .
George William Callender , Isaac Fletcher , F.R.A.S. William Froude , M.A. , M.I.C.E. A. H. Garrod , M.A. John Benjamin , Baron Heath , F.R.C.S. James Robert Christie .
F.S.A. Sir Rowland Hill , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.A.S. W. Kingdon Clifford , M.A. George William Drory .
Rev. Philip Kelland , M.A. , V.P.R.S.E. , F.C.P.S. President ' sAddress .
1879 .
] Major-General Sir Thomas Aiskew Larcom , Bart. , K.C.B. , R.E. , M.R.I.A. Sir John George Shaw Lefevre , K.C.B. , M.A. , D.C.L. Sir Thomas Maclear , F.R.A.S. Anthony Mervyn Story Maskelyne , j M.A. Sir James Matheson , Bart. J. Clerk Maxwell , M.A. John Miers , F.L.S. Charles Murchison , M.D. , LL. D. William Wilson Saunders , F.L.S. Thomas Sopwith , M.A. , F.G.S. Arthur Hay , Marquis of Tweed-dale .
Sir Richard Rawlinson Vyvyan , Bart. John Waterhouse .
Samuel Charles Whitbread , F.R.A.S. Bennet Woodcroft .
On the Foreign List .
Heinrich Wilhelm Dove .
| Johann von Lamont .
Fellows elected since the last Anniversary .
Prof. John Anderson , M.D. Rev. Miles Joseph Berkeley , F.L.S. Sir Henry Bessemer .
Prof. Alexander Crum Brown , M.D. Walter Lawry Buller , Sc. D. , F.L.S. Right Hon. Richard Assheton \#166 ; \#166 ; Cross .
George Howard Darwin , M.A. Prof. Joseph D. Everett , M.A. , D.C.L. Prof. Francis Stephen Bennet Francois de Chaumont .
Prof. George Downing Living , M.A. George Matthey , F.C.S. George John Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.A.S. Prof. Harry Govier Seeley , F.L.S. Benjamin Williamson , M.A. Thomas Wright , M.D. , F.G.S. On the Foreign List .
*\gt ; Arthur Auwers .
I Georg Hermann Quincke .
Luigi Cremona .
Theodor Schwann .
Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages .
Jean Servais Stas .
The President then addressed the Society as follows : Gentlemen , In the spring it is our duty to elect into the Royal Society our annual complement of new Fellows , and at our early summer meetings we admit to our Tanks the young and vigorous in the career of science .
But in the autumn , or fall , as on the other side of the Atlantic it is so aptly termed , it is our custom to recount the names of 408 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , those who have dropped from our list .
Some of these have fallen in a plenitude of years , and in maturity of mind : others in that early stage of youth where insight and imagination , as yet scarcely differentiated , have both lent their aid to the first flights of thought .
Which of these classes we can best afford to spare is hard to say ; but whether it be the one , or whether it be the other , it is certainly the case that the number of those whom we have thus lost since our last anniversary has been unusually great ; it has in fact reached a total of twenty-nine on the home , and two on the foreign , list .
Many of them find a place among the obituary notices which appear from time to time in our Proceedings ; but there are a few , of whom , from personal knowledge , or from special interest in their works , I am led to make additional , although passing , mention here .
In looking over the list we are reminded in a striking manner of a fundamental difference between the Royal Society and the Academies of the Continent , a difference which may perhaps be the best described by the term comprehensiveness .
For , beside the class of Fellows selected , !
in accordance with our recent legislation , from the members of the Privy Council , it has always been our custom to gather into our ranks not only men of eminence in science proper , and in subjects which border on it , but also men of distinction in other paths of life , provided that ; they have followed those paths on principles which are analogous to ouri own , ' and which by no undue strain of the analogy may themselves bo called scientific .
In illustration of this remark , I might point in the present list to the man of letters , to the architect , to the politician , to those who have honourably served in various departments of the public service , to the man of wealth who has turned his large means to large-minded purposes for the welfare of the people .
And although the act of erasing them from our list marks our loss , yet the fact of having once reckoned them among our number is in itself a gain , and must help to enlist the sympathies of the world outside in our special function , viz. , the promotion of natural knowledge , while at the same time it tends to enlarge our own .
To mention briefly a few of these : in Sir James Matheson we have lost a wealthy and enlightened member , who devoted much of his time , his energy , and his means in promoting the welfare , both moral and intellectual , of the people among whom he made his home .
In the Marquis of Tweeddale we have an instance , happily not singular , of one who , without any professional connexion with the subject , contrived amidst the distractions of active service to lay the foundations of a solid knowledge of one branch of science ; while in later years he became an active collector and the author of valuable cnotri-butions to the publications of the Geological Societies over which he presided .
1879 .
] President 's Address .
In the category of men of cultivation and leisure , who have turned their attention with good purpose and success to scientific pursuits , we may fairly reckon our late Fellow John Waterhouse , of Halifax .
S Sir Thomas Larcom was one of a long series of distinguished men who have been elected Fellows of the Royal Society from the Corps of the Royal Engineers .
Travelling beyond the strict limits of his professional career , he endeavoured to give to his official work a wider range .
And it was due to suggestions emanating from him that the Irish Survey was so extended as to make it the opportunity for collecting a great variety of local information , history , language , and antiquities , and that the map became the admiration of scientific travellers .
Mr. Bennet Woodcroft 's name will always be associated with the foundation of that important department the Patent Office , with its Library , and Museum , of which he was the first executive officer .
; Professor Kelland and Mr. Brooke were among our veterans in the Society , and many of us will long recollect the lively interest in science which the latter showed during his frequent attendance at our evening meetings .
In Mr. W. Froude , to whom one of the Royal Medals was awarded in 1878 , the Society , the public service of the country , and science in general have sustained a loss which at one time would have been irreparable , and which even now , when his work has become an established science , is difficult to replace .
Of Professor Clifford , and the gap which his death has caused among our friends and the world of science at large , I know not how to speak .
His mathematical papers are being collected by a careful and trusty hand , while his philosophical remains have been given to us by one who knew and loved him as he deserved .
To the same friend we owe the memoir of his life , written indeed so far as that life can ever be written , but reminding us also at every line that his life was one the full story of which will always seem but half told .
If in Professor Clifford we have lost one of our youngest , in Sir J. G. Shaw-Lefevre we have lost one of the oldest of our mathematical Fellows .
Born before the present century , and Senior Wrangler at Cambridge before many of us were in existence , he seems to belong to a past age .
But through a long and honourable course of unusually varied and responsible public life he always retained his interest in mathematics , and , himself no mean geometer of the old school , he had in his later years projected and actually begun a new edition of the works of Archimedes .
Of his labours in connexion with University ICollege , and afterwards with the University of London , all who are interested in liberal education will retain an appreciative and grateful memory .
Our last loss , that of Professor Clerk Maxwell , has been in some l respects the greatest .
In him the full maturity of a mind which had VOL. XXIX .
410 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , suffered no check or shadow of abatement , was devoted to the foundation of a more thorough knowledge of Molecular Physics and of Electrical Laws than has hitherto been attained .
The clear insight , the keen criticism , the just and liberal appreciation of the views of others , evinced both elsewhere and especially in his Reports to the Committee of Papers , will long be remembered ; while the more general side of his character , exemplified in the numerous scintillations struck off with his pen , will be no less cherished by those to whom his scientific writings were as a sealed book .
To replace such a man seems at first impossible ; but we should be doing scant justice to his memory if we did not believe that the good seed which he so liberally sowed would bear such fruit that in the time of need there should be no lack .
The only change which I have to record among our staff is that in the post of Clerk and assistant in the library .
Mr. Wheatley , who had held that office for eighteen years , has been appointed Assistant Secretary to the Society of Arts .
His place has been supplied by Mr. Rix , who will doubtless justify the high recommendations by which his candidature was supported .
My predecessor in office wisely made the anniversary address the occasion of communicating to the Fellows at large a summary of the business which , apart from that which is brought before our evening meetings , has occupied the attention of the Council during the current , year .
This practice I purpose to continue .
The subjects which have come before the Council and its Committees during the past year , although perhaps less multifarious , have not been less important than those with which they have had to deal in former years .
They may perhaps be conveniently classed under the following heads:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Property ; ( 2 ) Regulations and Procedure ; ( 3 ) the Government Grant and Fund ; ( 4 ) Matters referred to us by the Government ; ( 5 ) the Publications of the Society .
( 1 .
) Property .
The Fees Reduction Fund.\#151 ; This has received a few , but not large , contributions .
It was calculated , as stated on a former occasion , that an investment of the surplus , after providing for the loss of* income arising from the abolition of entrance fees , and the reduction of annual payments from'\#163 ; 4 to \#163 ; 3 , would render the fund permanently self-supporting .
It will , however , be in the recollection of the Fellows that two objects presented themselves to the mind of the Council when the fund was originated , viz. , the reductions above mentioned , and a provision for the expenses of our publications ; and that neither of them has been wholly abandoned .
Although the Fund , as now constituted , is primarily directed to the first of these objects , yet it has been hoped that , through accretions which may arise from time to time , the second purpose may eventually be also furthered .
And bearing in mind the increasing demands upon the Society 's income President'8 A ddress .
1879 .
] from the increase of scientific communications , and the larger expense now incurred for illustration , it is much to he desired that augmentations to the Fund may he actually made .
As the period seems now to have arrived for improving the value of the estate at Acton belonging to the Society , hy applying the whole or a part of it to building purposes , it may be well to say a few words with regard to this property .
The capacity to purchase and hold lands , the Statute of Mortmain notwithstanding , was granted to the Society by charter soon after its foundation , and subsequently , under George the First , a special licence to purchase in mortmain to the yearly value of \#163 ; 1,000 , and to receive lands , tenements , rents , or hereditaments by will or any deed of conveyance , was granted by Letters Patent .
In 1731 , when the Society had some money to invest , an estate of a good title near Fulham was mentioned as a suitable investment by the President , Sir Hans Sloane ; and in June , 1732 , a freehold farm , the estate of Mr. Pannet , of Kensington , having a dwelling-house and out-houses , with about forty-eight acres of arable land , was recommended for purchase by Mr. West .
In the following month the purchase of this estate at Acton was settled , the purchase-money being \#163 ; 1,600 , but Mr. Pannet agreeing to lay out \#163 ; 30 on repairs .
The total rent at that time was \#163 ; 65 per annum and a quit-rent of \#163 ; 1 4s .
In 1772 and 1774 the house and four acres of land were sold for \#163 ; 620 .
Another plot was sold in 1792 .
In 1858 the estate , which at first consisted of many separate plots , was consolidated under an award of the Enclosure Commissioners , and within the last few years other portions have been sold to the North and South-Western Junction Railway , and for the purpose of erecting a church , parsonage , and schools .
The sums received from these various sales have been considerably in excess of the \#163 ; 1,600 originally paid for the estate , so that the thirty-four and a half acres which , until within the last few months , * remained the property of the Society , and produced an annual rent Of \#163 ; 170 per annum , had practically cost the Society nothing .
During the present summer the railway company , being desirous of constructing a station upon the estate , purchased somewhat more than an acre of our land ; but it has been thought desirable to devote a portion of the purchase-money to buying a strip of land to give access to a part of the estate , the only approach to which was by a level crossing over the railway , which the company wished to close .
The lease of the whole property will shortly fall in , and , in re-letting it , provision will have to be made to enable the Society to take any portion of the land which may be required for building purposes .
A considerable part of the estate is well intersected by roads , and offers desirable frontages , but in order to make the whole of these available some outlay will be necessary , and it may perhaps be 412 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , found desirable to lay out additional roads at the expense of the Society .
There appears , however , to be every probability that , by selling and letting various plots on the estate , the eventual income of the Society from this source may be materially increased .
Besides the estate at Acton , the Society is possessed of a small grazing farm at Mablethorpe , in Lincolnshire , and although this has been let to a substantial tenant at a moderate rent , it seems not improbable that our income so arising may , like that of many others , be affected by the prevailing agricultural depression .
The amount , however , is in this case comparatively small .
Legacies.\#151 ; Under this head I have the pleasure to mention two important contributions to the Society 's funds .
First , an unconditional bequest ofl,000Z .
by the late Mr. Sydney Ellis , of Leicester ; and secondly , a legacy by the late Sir Walter Trevelyan , " the interest of which is to be applied to the promotion of scientific research .
" The object of this last bequest appears to be almost identical with that of the Donation Fund ; and the name of our benefactor may not improperly be associated with those of Wollaston the founder , and of others who have from time to time contributed to augment that fund .
The Royal Society , as is well known , possesses a rather extensive gallery of portraits , almost exclusively of Fellows of the Society , but among them also a fine painting of Lord Chancellor Bacon .
Many of these portraits , however , have , through the lapse of time , begun to show signs of decay .
Acting under the advice of Mr. F. W. Burton , F.S.A. , Director \#171 ; of the National Gallery , the Council has entrusted the pictures which seemed most to require attention to the care of Mr. Dyer , of Orchard Street , who is now engaged upon them .
Some of the portraits require lining , and others cleaning , or partial restoration .
As will be seen from those which have been returned to their places , the work appears to have been done in a satisfactory manner .
The present.appearance of the pictures has been much improved , and it is hoped that these interesting portraits of those who have gone before us may now be passed on in an unimpaired condition to future generations .
Among other acquisitions to the Society 's property , I would call the attention of the Society to the collection of no fewer than 973 portraits of Fellows of the Royal Society , formed by the late J. P. Gassiot , Esq. , F.R.S. , and bought during the past year .
The collection consists t mainly of engravings ; many of which are of great artistic merit , and in excellent condition .
It is to be hoped that the existing Fellows will aid in completing and continuing this interesting series , by contributing engravings or even photographs of i^hemselves or of other * Fellows , as occasion may offer .
Mention should also be made of a bequest by the late Mrs. Faraday of " a book containing the numerous diplomas and other documents of 1879 .
] President 's Address .
413 honour and compliment conferred on , or addressed to her late husband , Michael Faraday .
" ( 2 .
) Regulations and Procedure.\#151 ; At the last anniversary your late President explained the changes then in progress for the abolition of entrance fees , and for reduction in the annual payments made to the Society by the Fellows .
I have now only to add that the alterations in the Statutes , necessary for carrying this out , have been completed .
During the past year a small but perhaps not unimportant change in the mode of dealing with the papers to be read at the weekly meetings has been made .
This consists first , in deciding a week earlier than heretofore , what papers should be advertised for reading ; and secondly , in reading each week as many as practicable of those in hand , so as to leave as few as possible to stand over .
The weekly journals are now able to announce to the public the papers which will be read at the Royal Society ( as has in fact long been the case with other Societies ) during the next week .
But the main object of this arrangement has been early publication ; that is to say , publication both in its technical sense of reading before the Society , and in its more widely accepted sense of appearance in the Society 's Proceedings .
When this was first proposed , it was feared there would soon arrive a period of scientific famine , and that occasions might occur when the Society would meet with no papers before it .
Whether- this would be so great a calamity as was at first imagined is still an open question , for such has been the scientific fertility of the season , that the threatened catastrophe has never yet actually occurred .
But , more than this , your President was supported in any anxiety which he may have felt on this score , by an assurance on the part of the Secretaries that in the event of no other communication reaching us from other quarters , one or other of them would contribute something from their own store .
And although our stock of papers has never reached a famine level , our two principal Secretaries have fulfilled their promise by anticipating it .
ffaving regard to this prompt action on their part , I doubt not that the Society will agree with me in thinking that the prospect of a dearth of papers has proved to be productive of advantages rather than the reverse .
5 But so far from suffering by a deficiency of matter , we have more often found our difficulties in the number of papers to be read in a single evening .
And on such occasions the Secretaries have been good enough to take especial pains to make themselves masters of the contents of the papers , and to communicate in a few words to the meeting the substance of each .
It is , - 1 believe , not too much to say that the " reading " of papers carried out in this way has been the most agreeable and instructive , and has been particularly provocative of intelligent and pertinent discussion .
The previous preparation necessary to effect this must , I know , entail considerable 414 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , trouble on the part , of our already hard-worked Secretaries ; but I am equally sure that all those who have been present at those their viva voce expositions will join with me in an expression of our sense of the obligations which they have thus conferred upon us .
Of the utility of printing copies of the abstracts of papers in time for the meetings , and of circulating copies to the authors themselves , I myself entertain no doubts .
But it must still be admitted that full use of these facilities has hardly yet been made , and that the discussions on the papers have not apparently been much promoted by them .
I trust , however , that the authors of papers and others who may attend our weekly meetings will endeavour to make every use of facilities which are afforded at a not inappreciable cost to the Society .
There is a possible alteration in our arrangements which has often appeared to me to be worthy of consideration , and which from conversations with some of our Fellows appears to meet with sufficient support to justify my bringing it before this cur anniversary .
I refer to the hour at which our weekly meetings are held .
Hitherto , in accordance with the usage of Scientific Societies in London , we have met in the evening .
But changes in the hatpts of society , and the increasing distances from Burlington House at which many of our Fellows reside , seem to render a large weekly attendance difficult .
On this account it appears to me desirable to inquire whether an afternoon hour might not better suit the convenience of cur members .
In that case , I should suggest 5.0 p.m. ; and as our meetings seldom extend to two hours in duration , it would generally be practicable for Fellows to reach home by about seven o'clock .
I should , however , much regret if any such change should deprive us of the pleasure and of the substantial benefits arising from the conversations in our tea room .
And , having this in view , I would suggest that on Thursday afternoons tea should be prepared an hour before the meeting , so as to give opportunity for conversation to such of our Fellows and their friends as might be disposed to avail themselves of it .
Under such an arrangement for our weekly meetings , it would doubtless be necessary to make further provision for the Meetings of the Council and of the Committee of Papers .
On this point I should .desire the advice of the Council and the suggestions of individual Fellows .
But in the meantime I would venture to point out that it might be sufficient to transfer either the Council or the Committee of Papers , or both , from the Thursday to the Wednesday .
And although the former plan would involve bringing the Members of Council rather more often together , the total time occupied would not be increased ; and it might be not without advantage that the Committee of Papers should be held on an independent day .
These changes , if adopted , would require the alteration of the Statute relating to the hour of meeting .
But if the suggestion were President 's Address .
adopted before the end of the year , there would still remain nearly half the Session of our Society after complying with the necessary formalities .
At the risk of becoming tedious on matters of internal detail , I venture to mention another subject .
It has often been suggested that our weekly meetings might be rendered more interesting if the communications were more often accompanied by experiments , or by other modes of optical illustration .
The Council has hitherto met these requirements by supplying , from time to time , such appliances as appeared necessary .
But that important element , the electric light , and batteries on a large scale , have generally been avoided , on account of the inconveniences attending them .
It has , however , been thought that authors would be much encouraged to illustrate their communications experimentally if the main appliances were known to be always ready to hand .
Again , the mode of lighting our meeting-room by means of sunlights has proved inconvenient to many of our Bellows , on account of its heat and glare ; and it is considered undesirable to adopt ordinary gas-burners in its stead for fear of injury to the pictures .
We are , however , no longer driven to this alternative , as we may now look to the electric light as a possible mode of illumination .
These considerations have led me to make an offer , as I now do , to the Society , of a gas-engine of eight horse-power , which , in the opinion of those best qualified to judge , will be amply sufficient both for experimental illustration and for illumination .
And I have much pleasure in adding that , on hearing of this offer , our Bellow , Mr. Siemens , immediately expressed his wish to add a dynamo-machine , or rather a pair of such machines , of improved construction ( one for alternate , the other for direct currents ) , the principle of which he had already contemplated bringing before the Society .
The other requisites , such as an optical lamp and a few instruments of frequent use , will doubtless soon , follow .
But , in proposing thus to promote experimental illustration of papers read before the Society , I think it right to add that I do not contemplate , nor do I think it desirable , that the Society should in any sense establish a laboratory ; all that is here intended is , that the main appliances for illustration should be found ready to hand here , while the special apparatus would be furnished by the authors themselves .
If these proposals meet with the approbation of the Society , the experiment may shortly be tried ; and I have little doubt that , with the advice of the Council on matters of detail , the undertaking may be brought to a successful issue .
( 3 .
) The Government Grant and Fund.\#151 ; The particulars of the grants made from these two funds will be published as usual in our " Proceedings , " with the report of the Anniversary Meeting .
Some of the 416 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , results are already before you in the " Philosophical Transactions " and " Proceedings , " and others may be expected to follow .
These and similar publications by other scientific societies must serve as the main basis for forming a judgment of the value of the grants in question , and especially of that which is technically known as the " Government Fund .
" But whatever be the final verdict on this head , I feel sure that there will be but one opinion as to the impartiality and judgment with which the Committees , to which the matters were referred , have discharged their onerous duties .
" We are now entering the fourth of the five years to which , as will be remembered , the Treasury limited the term of the experiment .
It is , therefore , desirable that the minds , not only of the Council , but also of the Fellows generally , should during the present year be turned to the question , whether it is advisable , in the interests of Science , that the Fund should be maintained : and if so , whether in its present or any altered form ?
( 4 .
) Among the matters referred to by the Government two especially require mention .
In November last the Secretary of State for the Home Department addressed a letter to the President of the Royal Society , in which , after alluding to the great sacrifice of life in colliery accidents , he said , " I cannot help thinking that science may once more come to our aid in this very practical question ; and I gladly consult you , in the first instance , as to the best means of obtaining further scientific information in the possession of scientific men , likely to be of practical utility in the prevention of accidents in mines .
" This letter was referred to a Committee , and on their recommendation the Council directed a reply to be made to the Home Secretary , suggesting an inquiry into the subjects ( indicated somewhat in detail in the letter ) bearing upon the causes of explosions in coal mines , and upon their possible prevention .
Acting on this letter , Mr. Cross moved the appointment of a Royal Commission on the subject , and requested the President and Council to nominate four members , one of whom should act as Chairman of the Commission .
The Fellows nominated in accordance with this request were , Mr. Warington Smyth as Chairman , Professor Abel , Professor Clifton , and Professor Tyndall .
The Commission is now actively engaged upon the inquiry .
In May last the Secretary of State for India asked the advice of the Royal Society on the question of deputing to this country Major J. Herschel on the subject of pendulum observations .
The subject is one in which the Royal Society has on more than one occasion taken an active interest ; and a reply , prepared by Professor Stokes , of which the following is an extract , was sent:\#151 ; " There are two independent methods by which a knowledge of the exact figure of the earth may be arrived at ; one by measurement of arcs of the meridian , President ' s .
.1879 .
] or arcs of parallels of latitude , in different places ; the other by measuring by means of the pendulum the variation of gravity from place to place , from whence the figure of the earth may be deduced by an extension of Clairaut 's theorem .
" A very elaborate investigation of the problem as deduced from geodetic measurements has been made within the last few years by our Fellow Captain ( now Colonel ) Clarke , R.E. , in connexion with the great Trigonometrical Survey of the United Kingdom , but including results of the geodetic operations , so far as they bear on this problem , undertaken by other nations and in other parts of the world .
" The results as to the figure of the earth , deducible from pendulum observations that had been then executed , were discussed by the present Astronomer Royal in an article published in the ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitana .
' But thirty years have passed since the publication of that work , during which time very important contributions to our knowledge of the variation of gravity over the earth have been made by different nations .
Among them the elaborate series that was carried on in connexion with the great Trigonometrical Survey of India occupies a prominent place .
It appears , therefore , very desirable that the conclusions deducible from our present stock of pendulum observations should be exhaustively discussed .
" ?
Major Herschel is on his way to England , to carry out the proposed work .
I ( 5 .
) The Publications of the Society.\#151 ; The Catalogue of Scientific Papers.\#151 ; The second volume of the supplementary decade , viz. , 1863\#151 ; 73 , has been brought to a close , and copies are now in the hands of the Fellows and the public .
It exceeds in bulk any of the earlier volumes of the work , and extends to 1,310 pages .
In this supplement , 343 additional scientific serials have been catalogued , making the total of such serials now comprised in the whole no less than 1,938 .
The donation list for this volume has been the same as that for former volumes , with the addition of \#187 ; few Societies and Institutions sanctioned by the Treasury at the recommendation of the Council .
The Fellows have the right to purchase the supplement at the same reduced price per volume as the original work .
The Council has authorised the preparation of titles for another decade ; and some progress has already been made in the work .
| Apart from the Catalogue of Papers , the main strength of the Library of the Royal Society consists in its collection of the publications of scientific Academies , and Societies , and of scientific journals , unrivalled anywhere in this country , except perhaps in the British IMuseum .
It has always been held that the first duty of the Library Committee is to maintain , and wherever possible to increase , our efficiency in this respect .
As regards our general collection of books , the Committee and Council are of opinion that it will be best to 418 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 restrict their purchases , as far as possible , to recognised standarc works .
The change of printers , mentioned last year in the address of xm predecessor , has as then hoped effected considerable economy ; and ] should not allow the present occasion to pass without expressing th\lt ; sense of the officers of the zeal and attention shown by Messrs Harrison to the business of the Society .
The change in question occasioned the removal of our stock of " Philosophical Transactions * and " Proceedings " from the warehouses of our late printer , and at it would have been alike unnecessary and expensive to hire othei warehouses at our present printers or elsewhere , we have taken the stock into our own custody .
This has been the more easily effected , owing to the transference of the stock of the Catalogue of Scientific Papers to the Stationery Office .
The change has been made the occasion of thoroughly re-arranging our stock of " Transactions " and " Proceedings ; " a process which will always be necessary at intervals of some years , in order to keep the stock in a satisfactory condition .
An extra volume of the " Philosophical Transactions , " ( vol. 168 ) has been issued , in which the observations made by the naturalists who accompanied the Transit of Venus Expeditions to Kerguelen 's Land and Rodriguez , and descriptions of their collections by persons specially acquainted with the several subjects , are brought together .
The volume is divided into four sections , viz. , the Botany and Zoology of each of the two islands respectively .
The Botanical collections from Kerguelen 's Land , - worked out by Sir J. D. Hooker , Mr. Mitten , the Rev. J. M. Crombie , Dr. Dickie , P. E. Reinsch , and the Rev. M. J. Berkeley , have added largely to our knowledge of the Cryptogams , especially the Algae .
In particular the American affinity of the Kerguelen Elora , previously established by Sir .
J. D. Hooker , in his examination of the flowering plants , is proved to be also very strongly manifested in the Cryptogams .
Of the Zoological collections from Kerguelen 's Land , those of the Mollusca , Crustacea , Arachnida , and Insecta , have yielded the greatest number of novelties ; the two former offering distinct evidence of the affinity of this Eauna ( as of its Elora ) with that of South America .
The Arachnids and Insects of the southern extremity of America are unfortunately too little known at present to admit of a comparison with the highly interesting new forms discovered by Mr. .
Eaton , and described in this section .
In estimating the affinities of the Flora and Eauna of Rodriguez , the authors were under great difficulties owing to our imperfect knowledge of the plants and animals of the other Mascarene Islands .
But almost all their observations point strongly to the conclusion that the present animals and plants are the remains of a once more extensive Elora and Eauna which has been gradually broken up by geological President 's Address .
1879 .
] and climatic changes , and which more recently has been greatly interfered with by the agency of man .
The greater portion of the botanical section has been undertaken by Dr. Js .
Bay ley Balfour , who himself collected the materials .
He estimates the total number of plants found at present in Rodriguez at 470 species , viz.:\#151 ; 297 Phsenogams and 173 Cryptogams ; and he establishes the remarkable fact that of the Phaenogams not less than 108 are to be regarded as introduced into the island , and that 189 only are indigenous .
Great interest attaches to remains of the extinct cave-fauna of Rodriguez ; and the collection made by Mr. Slater , supplied materials for three papers by Mr. E. Newton , Mr. J. W. Clark , and Dr. Gunther .
With regard to Zoology , the marine collections were those to which least interest was attached , as they consisted principally of common forms spread over the whole of the tropical Indian Ocean .
On the other hand , our knowledge of the Terrestrial Invertebrates received considerable additions , especially in the Myriopods and Arachnids , Coleoptera and Turbellaria , described by Mr. A. G. Butler , Mr. C. O. Waterhouse , and Mr. G. Gulliver . .
The Papers in General.\#151 ; The papers presented to the Society , and read at our evening meetings , have been more numerous than in any previous year of our existence , and have during the last twelve months reached a total of 118 .
Some of them appear to have excited unusual interest among the Fellows and their friends ; for , on more than one occasion our meeting-room was filled to an almost unprecedented degree .
But , beside the interest attaching to their reading and discussion , the papers themselves have offered some very striking features .
It would be as invidious to attempt , as it would be impossible to establish , any general comparison of merit among so varied a collection of memoirs ; but I may still be permitted to take this opportunity of expressing my own impressions of a few which fall , more or less , within my own range of study .
In purely experimental research , that is , in experiments guided by a clear conception of what was wanted to be done , and executed with adequate instrumental appliances and with the highest manipulative skill , we cannot but be struck by the assiduity and success with which Mr. Crookes has continued his labours .
He has now brought to a termination his remarkable series of papers on Repulsion resulting from Radiation ; and has already struck out into a new region , viz. , the study of certain Electrical Phenomena which appertain especially to high vacua .
In the vacua to which he has now turned his attention , the exhaustion has been carried even beyond that in which the phenomona of the Radiometer are produced ; and it is by a legitimate and sagacious step that he has now occupied a complete field of inquiry intermediate to the most extreme vacua ever 420 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , attained , and those in which the stratified discharge is displayed .
Of the delicacy and beauty of the experiments it is not necessary here to speak , for they have been already exhibited here , as well as to more than one audience on a large scale .
Through this advance on his part , a help-ing hand will doubtless be held out to those who are occupied with the subject of stratification ; for in this matter , the two advancing powers desire neither a " neutral zone " nor a " scientific frontier " to separate their field of action .
Another communication , full of promise as well of performance , should also not pass unnoticed .
I allude to Professor Hughes ' paper on his Induction Currents Balance , the application of which has already branched out and borne fruit in more than one direction .
The extreme simplicity of the instruments , and their marvellous adaptation to the purposes for which they were intended , reflect the highest credit on their inventor .
Not unconnected with Mr. Crookes ' researches , so far as they are directed towards the ultimate constitution of gases , are those of Professor Osborne Reynolds .
In his remarkable paper , " On Certain Dimensional Properties of Matter in a Gaseous State , " Professor Osborne Reynolds has established the fact of what he calls Thermal Transpiration , namely , that when two portions of the same gas are separated by a porous plug , the two surfaces of which are of different temperatures , the condition of equilibrium is no longer that the pressures of the gas on the two sides of the plug should be equal , but that the pressure on the hotter side should exceed that on the colder side by a certain quantity ; and that if this is not the case , the gas will transpire through the plug until this condition is satisfied .
Professor Reynolds connects this principle with Mr. Crookes ' Radiometer experiments ; and the various considerations which he brings to bear on the subject appear to have this idea throughout , that the dynamical similarity of two gaseous systems , bounded by solid surfaces , geometrically similar , depends on the ratio of the homologous lines of the system to a certain quantity , having the dimensions of a line , and which varies inversely as the density of the gas .
Although dimensional considerations have been shown by previous writers to have an important bearing on the Theory of Gases , still his experimental results form an important contribution to our knowledge of the subject ; and in his theoretical investigation he has attacked with vigour , and not without success , some elements of the problem avoided by his predecessors in this field of research .
Photography has of late years become so completely the handmaid of Physical Science , and has so constantly responded to the calls of its master , that its progress , however rapid and however effective , has come to be taken almost as a matter of course .
But the step which Captaii .
Abney appears nOw to have taken lies entirely out of the ordinary line President'1 s Address .
1879 .
] \gt ; f advance .
M. Becquerel , as is well known , succeeded some years igo in producing natural colours by the agency of light ; one specimen of which , a solar spectrum , was given to me some three years uncle by M. Cornu , and which , through being carefully preserved in a rin box , retains all its chromatic features .
Captain Abney has now taken up the subject again , and believes it probable that the colours obtained by this process may be preserved unchanged when exposed so ordinary daylight .
His suggestion as to the physical causes of the colour is interesting , and leads us to hope that we may hear more upon the subject .
It was at one time thought that Science and practical life were essentially distinct , and that in their cares and their purposes , in their sorrows and their joys , neither intermeddled with the other .
But in proportion as it has been gradually recognised that Science , and even Philosophy itself , is based upon experience , so has their distinction gradually faded from our view .
And , among many other instances of forecasts in this direction by far-seeing men , I may adduce the dream of Babbage , that mathematical calculation might be reduced to mechanism , and that the data of many problems both of physics and of life might be handed over to an engine which would work out the results .
That dream of his was as nearly realised as any dream of his ever could be realised ; for the merit and the charm of the man himself , and the fascination which he threw about all his projects , were derived from the fact that , at whatever rate realisation followed , his ideas flew faster and faster still and outstripped them all .
And if , in the machinery for complicated calculation designed by the brothers Thomson , much more has been actually achieved than ever before , it is not because this is a generation of more feeble folk , or because there has been any lack of elasticity of mind or of fertility in idea , but because their minds and their ideas have been more under control , and because these men have succeeded in that which their great predecessor always missed , namely , mastery* over themselves .
, The relations between the Mechanism of the Heavens and the History of the Earth have for some years past been the subject of speculation and of argument amongst many prominent men of science .
And calculations have been made , tending more or less to confirm the views of the various writers on the subject .
But so vast is the problem , so multifarious in its data , so complicated in its laws , that eager as we are to grasp anything solid or well founded in the inquiry , we are constantly left with a feeling that we may have clutched at a mere floating weed , when we hoped that we had laid hold of something firmly rooted .
And on this account we may look with unusual satisfaction at the massive and philosophical research in which Mr. George Darwin is engaged , and of which we have already some substantial instalments .
It consists in an investigation on the 422 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 precession and tides in a viscous spheroid , in which he applies his results to a discussion of the internal condition of the several planets , and of the evolution of the moon and other satellites from the primitive nebulae .
I now pass on to mention briefly a few other subjects which , outside our immediate sphere of action , form substantial elements of the scientific progress of the past year , and among these I should first mention Meteorology , because the Council , to whom in this country the subject is entrusted , is nominated by the Royal Society .
The science of Meteorology has , during the last few years , attracted an increasing amount of attention , more perhaps from its close relation to the interests of all classes of the community , than from the definiteness or novelty of the scientific results to which it has led .
The second International Congress of Meteorology met at Rome in April of the present year , on the invitation of the Italian Government ; an interval of nearly five years having elapsed since the date of the first Congress , which was held at Vienna in 1874 .
The main object of these meetings has been to introduce greater uniformity of method into the meteorological systems of Europe , without attempting , however , to pledge the different Governments to any definite engagements on the subject .
With this view , a permanent International Committee has been constituted , to furnish a point d'appui for common action , and to facilitate , during the intervals between the Congresses , a personal interchange of opinions among the authorities directing the different systems .
A great number of valuable reports , on questions embracing nearly the whole field of Meteorology , were received by the Roman Congress .
Among them , special mention may be made of the reports by M. Violle on Solar Radiation ; by M. Pernet , on the Determination of the Fixed Points of Thermometers ; and by Professor Everett , on Atmospheric Electricity .
A Conference of a semi-official character , which was originated by the Congress at Rome , was held at Hamburg in the beginning of October , for the purpose of taking into consideration a proposal , emanating from Lieutenant Weyprecht and Count Wilczek , to establish for one complete year a circle of meteorological observations round the Arctic regions of the globe .
The Conference was attended by representatives of the Meteorological Institutes of Austria , France , Germany , Russia , and the Scandinavian countries ; and it was agreed that an effort should be made to establish the proposed circumpolar system of meteorological and physical observations in the year 1881 .
Some part at all events of this plan will , in all probability , be carried into effect , as the Canadian Government has intimated its readiness to co-operate in it , and as Count Wilczek has offered himself to defray the cost of an Observatory at Nova Zembla .
President !
\amp ; Address .
1879.J The unfavourable weather which has characterised the present year , has given an additional impulse to the study of English Meteorology ; and our own Meteorological Office has ventured to resume the issue of Daily Forecasts of Weather , after they had been discontinued for nearly thirteen years .
The attempt has been made under somewhat adverse circumstances , as the uncertainty of the weather of 1879 has even surpassed the proverbial fickleness of the British climate .
But the experiment has been liberally supported by the Press , and has been watched with great interest by the public generally .
Of its success or failure it would as yet be premature to speak , but it deserves recognition as a serious attempt to apply to one of the most uncertain of the sciences the severe test of prediction . ?
Transit of Venus ( 1874 ) Reductions.\#151 ; The calculations of every kind relating to the five British Expeditions were some time ago concluded .
The mass of them refers to the determinations of terrestrial longitudes and the discussion of the measurements of photographs .
The preparation of the Astronomical ( as distinguished from the Photographic ) Observations and Results for Printing is complete for the expeditions to the Hawaiian Islands , Rodriguez Island , and Hew Zealand .
For the other two expeditions much remains to be done\#151 ; chiefly , however , mere copying .
The employment of the staff upon the measurement , re-measurement , and discussion of the photographs , was the most serious cause of the delay ttjat has occurred in presenting to the public the astronomical results .
Those who are now engaged upon this subject entertain serious doubts as to whether any result of value , as regards the special object of the expeditions , is to be expected from the photographs , owing to a want of sharpness in the images .
Some of the photographs taken by the Russian Astronomers* have been measured , but not very successfully .
The telescopic observations of the internal contacts , at many stations in India and Australia , as well as at those occupied by the Government Observers , in all thirty-one observations of the Ingress and forty-eight of the Egress , have yielded a value of the mean solar parallax :of-8"-85\#177 ; 0"-03.+ The Greenwich Nine-Year Catalogue of 2,263 stars , with discussions of the systematic errors of R.A. 's and H.P.D. 's has been published .
The gomplete reduction of the measures of about 1,900 photo-\#163 ; graphs of the sun , taken at Greenwich from 1873 up to the present I time , affords data immediately available for determining the dis- ; tribution of spots and faculse on the sun s surface , and the position of its axis of rotation .
The photographs now regularly taken at | Greenwich may be considered a continuation of the Kew series .
The reduction of the Greenwich magnetic observations , 1841 * At Haven Possuit .
f " Monthly Notices , R.A.S. , " xxxviii , p. 455 .
424 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , 1877 , has afforded an opportunity for testing the connexion ( first suggested by Sir E. Sabine and afterwards investigated as regards the element of declination by Professor R. Wolf ) between magnetic variations and sun-spots .
Mr. Ellis has compared the diurnal ranges of magnetic declination and horizontal force with Professor Wolf 's curve of sun-spot frequency , with the result that not only is there a general correspondence in the two sets of phenomena , but the minor irregularities of the sun-spot curve are reproduced in the curves of diurnal magnetic range for both elements , and further that the well-marked annual inequality in the latter is itself variable , being greatest at the time of maximum of sun spots and least at that of minimum .
The spectroscopic determination of the motions of stars in the line of sight by the displacement of lines in their spectra , has been recently extended at Greenwich , to stars of the third and fourth magnitude , raising the number of stars available for the application of this method to 200 or 300 .
Up to the present time , the motions of 63 stars have been thus determined at Greenwich .
Mr. Seabroke , at Rugby , has also applied the method to 28 stars , and his results , though presenting some discordances inter se , generally support those obtained by Mr. Huggins and by the Greenwich observers.* A new determination of the Figure of the Earth , in which the results of recent measurements of the Indian arc of 24 ' are included , has been made by Colonel Clarke.f A connexion between the Sun 's Outer Corona and Meteor Streams has been suggested by several observers , Professor Cleveland Abbe , Mr. F. C. Penrose , and others , :\#163 ; of the Solar Eclipse of 1878 .
From a discussion of the distribution of aphelia and inclinations of cometary orbits , Professor H. A. Newton has come to the conclusion that comets have come to us from the stellar spaces ( in accordance with Laplace 's hypothesis ) , and that ( with the possible exception of the comets of short period ) they have not originated within the solar system as Kant supposed .
S Mr. Gill has deduced from his extensive series of Heliometer Observations of Mars at Ascension , the value 8"'78 + 0"'015 for the Sun 's Mean Equat .
Hor. Parallax .
|| This agrees nearly with the first published result of the British Transit of Venus Expeditions , jmd also with the result of Cornu 's determination of the velocity of light combined with Struve 's constant of aberration .
* * * S * " Monthly Notices , " 1879 , June .
1879 , October 10 .
t " Phil. Mag. , " 1878 , August .
+ " Monthly Notices , " 1878 , November .
S " Amer .
Joura .
, " 1878 , September .
|| " Monthly Notices , " 1879 , June .
President ?
s A ddress . .
1879 .
] The publication of Lohrmann and Schmidt 's Maps of the Moon forms an important contribution to Selenography .
M. Flammarion has published a valuable Catalogue of Binary Stars , giving all available observations ( to the number of 14,000 ) of these objects , with the elements of their orbits , so as to present a complete summary of their history .
Among the more recent Institutions for the promotion of Science , mention should be made of the Observatories for the study of Astronomical Physics in Prance and Germany .
| The elder of these in point of date , namely that in Prance , although founded in 1876 , has only quite recently been permanently established in the Chateau at Meudon .
The Director has ever since the foundation been principally occupied with solar photography , and he has established the fact that photography is capable of revealing phenomena which must necessarily escape ordinary telescopic observation .
In particular , he has succeeded in photographing the granulations previously seen on the solar disk by other astronomers ; and by means of his magnificent pictures , one of which he has recently presented to the Society , he has established the existence of what he terms the Reseau photospherigue ; in other words , that the surface of the sun is divided into regions of calm and of activity .
His present researches will doubtless enrich our knowledge with many new facts , f The German Observatory has been placed at Potsdam .
In the selection of the locality , 320 feet above the sea , with a good horizon , and free from the smoke and vibration of the city , and in the furnishing of the Observatory , the German Government has done everything that could be wished .
And it may confidently be hoped that in.the hands of Professor Vogel and his colleagues much good work will be there done .
\#166 ; \#166 ; The ramifications of Science are now so various in direction , so , comprehensive in grasp , and so immediate in their applications , that they have of late years given rise fb the establishment of special *\gt ; Institutes and Societies for the study and encouragement of their .
respective subjects .
Among these there may be mentioned the Institution of Telegraph Engineers , the Iron and Steel Institute , and \amp ; others .
At the meetings of these bodies it frequently happens that subjects q which may have , in their primary form of a scientific discovery , been ,4 laid before the Royal Society , are brought up again and discussed 4 ' from a different point of view , e.g. , in their relation to other subjects , ^or in their application to the special purposes of life .
For instance , I in the " Proceedings of the Institution of Telegraph Engineers " we find the following:\#151 ; 1 .
Wires which run parallel to each other for a long distance are , very much troubled by induction between wire and wire .
The effect I VOL. XXIX .
* G 426 ' Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 on telegraphs is to diminish speed of working , and on telephonei to render speaking impossible .
Hughes has studied these effects ii his own peculiar way , and has shown how , when the number of wire is limited and the working confined to one direction , they can bi entirely eliminated .
2 .
Mr. Cowper has shown how , by producing the two rectangula : components of a plane curve at a distance , it is possible to reproduci handwriting .
His instrument works very effectively , but is stil perhaps in an early stage of its development 3 .
The application of the Duplex system to long cables has beei practically and very efficiently carried out by Mr. Stearns on thi Atlantic Cable , and by Mr. Muirhead on the long cables of the Easten Telegraph Company in the Mediterranean and Indian Ocean .
4 .
The Electric Light is still on its trial for general street illumina tion in Paris and London ; but it has been recently very effective !
employed in surveying and sounding the Mediterranean by night , am in the operation of laying and repairing cables by the steam-shi ] " Dacia , " belonging to the Silvertown Company .
By its aid ninety-si : soundings , made with Sir William Thomson 's steel wire apparatus , jb water averaging 1,500 fathoms depth , were taken in seven days am nights , bottom in every case being brought up .
5 .
Several improvements in Telephones have been brought ouf notably Gower 's , in Paris , and Edison 's loud-sounding arrangement and the instruments are gradually finding their way into practica use . .
6 .
Experiments are being made both in England and in Prance h the transmission of mechanical power by electric currents ; and w may hope for valuable results from this field of inquiry .
The Iron and Steel Institute was founded in 1869 under tht presidency of the Duke of Devonshire .
The Society consists o proprietors and managers of iron and steel works , of metallurgies chemists , geologists , and engineers .
The number of its member has grown gradually from 140 at its commencement to its presen limit , 1,031 , of whom 116 are foreigners residing abroad , and com prising the leading metallurgists of America as well as of the con tinent of Europe .
The Association meets twice a year , once ( during the spring ) in London , and once ( in the autumn ) by invitation at on ' of the great industrial centres in England or abroad .
In 1873 it me at Liege , in 1878 at Paris , and in 1880 it will meet at Diisseldorf Each meeting lasts from two to four days , which are spent partly b reading and discussing papers , and partly in visiting works o interest .
The results of the Association have been of considerable utility : ( 1 by bringing the scientific metallurgist into contact with the man o practical experience , thereby extending the appreciation , and in man } President ?
s Address .
1879 .
] instances even the actual cultivation , of Science ; ( 2 ) by the annual publication of a very valuable record of the progress made in this important branch of applied Science ; ( 3 ) by acting as a kind of international tribunal on the merits or demerits of new processes , in a manner calculated both to stimulate and to guide further undertakings .
s Telegraph Conference.\#151 ; When Telegraphy began to assume an international character , great inconvenience arose from want of uniformity in the apparatus used , and in the service regulations adopted by different European countries .
t\gt ; Although the construction of the line ( whether submarine , underground , or suspended ) and the details of construction of the telegraphic apparatus employed may fairly be left in the hands of each country or telegraphic administration , it was soon found to be necessary that a certain standard of efficiency should be insisted upon .
Agreement .was moreover requisite in regard to the general character of the instruments to be used in international telegraphy ; for instance , whether or not acoustic signals were to be admissible , whether an indelible record should be insisted upon , whether a type-printer , or an autographic instrument should be used , or a recording instrument representing the letters by dots and dashes , in which case a uniform code would be a matter of necessity .
Beside these points there remained .the subject of the tariff to be charged in each country for transit and for terminal messages , involving delicate questions , which could be settled only by mutual concessions and general arrangements .
i These considerations led the French Government , in 1866 , to invite those European Governments who had already taken the administration of the telegraphs in their own hands , to meet at Paris , in order to ' agree if possible on certain resolutions , subject to ratification by the respective Governments .
England was not represented at this fiist Conference , because the telegraphs were not yet a Government Department , and it was not though# advisable to invite telegraph companies to take part in the proceedings .
* The result of the first deliberations went beyond the mere settlement of pressing questions , and it was decided to hold periodical Conferences at the different capitals of Europe , and to institute a central International " Bureau " ( to be located at Berne ) to see to the proper application of the resolutions of the Conferences , and to a'ct as an - International Court of Appeal , regarding questions of difference m telegraphic matters arising between the contracting countries .
^ The second Conference took place at Vienna in 1869 , in which several countries , including Turkey , Persia , and British India , took 1 part for the first time .
On this occasion it was resolved that the leading telegraph companies should be admitted to the discussions , but should not be allowed to vote ; the power of voting being confined 428 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , to the Governments , and each country having one vote only , irrespective of its size and importance .
The third Conference was held at Rome in December , 1871 , when the British Government ( Post Office ) was for the first time represented , and also the Indo-European and Cable Companies , which latter are bound by the resolutions of the Conference only in matters of international administration , and of tariff in cases where lines join two countries belonging to the Union .
The fourth Conference met at St. Petersburg in 1876 , and the fifth at London in 1879 .
At the latter meeting difficult questions of tariff arose , which protracted the sittings oyer nearly two months .
At previous Conferences it had already been decided to treat each country as a unit , its particular charge being the same , whether a message had only to cross the frontier , or had to pass over long distances into the interior .
At the London Conference it was proposed by Germany to adopt a uniform rate per international message for the whole of Europe , analogous to the uniform postal rate for letters , while France went further and urged the adoption of a universal rate per word .
Neither of these measures , however , was adopted , but a compromise was effected : and after the 1st April , 1880 , each word will be charged at a specified rate for each country , five words being added to each message to cover time spent in advising , commencing , and finishing it .
The next Conference will meet at Berlin in 1884 .
All European countries , as well as Brazil , Persia , India , and Japan , belong to the Conference , and are bound by its decisions .
Any of twelve modem languages using the Roman character may be employed ; Russian , Greek , Turkish , being thus excluded from use .
It would be difficult to over estimate the beneficial results produced by these Conferences in stimulating and perfecting international communication .
Material is not wanting to extend these notices of scientific activity over a wider range ; for our foreign neighbours are always ready to furnish us with information of whatever is new among them either in matter or in method .
But a mere enumeration of these things , however interesting in themselves , would form but a dull chapter , unless it should issue in a judicial estimate of results , or a suggestive comparison of national arrangements for the promotion of science .
On such an enterprise I am by no means prepared to adventure myself ; and even if I should be ever led to make the attempt on some special topic , or some particular aspect of the question , I must , -at all events , defer it to a future occasion .
On the motion of Mr. Francis Galton , seconded by Sir Joseph Fayrer , it was resolved:\#151 ; " That the thanks of the Society be re- .
1879 .
] President 's Address .
429 turned to the President for his Address , and that he be requested to allow it to be printed .
" The President then proceeded to the presentation of the Medals :\#151 ; The Copley Medal has been awarded to Rudolph Julius Emmanuel Clausius , Foreign Member of the Royal Society , for his investigations in the Mechanical Theory of Heat .
The Mechanical Theory of Heat as at present understood and taught has been so essentially a matter of growth , that it would be difficult to assign to each investigator the precise part which he has taken in its establishment .
It will , however , be admitted by all , that the re-searches of Clausius rank high among those which have mainly contributed to its development .
These researches extend over a period of thirty years , and embrace important applications of the theory not only to the steam engine , but to the sciences of electricity and magnetism .
Even to enumerate those who have contributed to one branch of the subject , viz. , the Kinetic Theory of Gases , would be beyond my present purpose and powers ; but as Clausius himself states , both Daniel and John Bernoulli* wrote on the subject .
And , even , to go back to earlier times , Lucretiusf threw out the idea ; while Gassendi , and our own Boyle , appear to have entertained it .
Within our own recollection , Joule , Meyer , Kroning , Clerk Maxwell , and others have made invaluable contributions to this branch , as well as to the general subject of the Mechanical Theory of Heat .
But however great the value of these contributions , it may safely be stated that the name of Clausius will always be associated with the development of earlier ideas into a real scientific theory .
The Davy Medal has been awarded to P. E. Lecoq de Boisbaudran .
The discovery of the metal gallium^ is remarkable for having filled a gap which had been previously pointed out in the series of known elements .
MendelejefE had already shown that a metal might probably exist , intermediate in its properties between aluminium and indium , before Boisbaudran 's laborious spectroscopic and chemical investigation of numerous varieties of blende led him to the discovery and isolation of such a metal .
The separation of the minute traces of gallium compounds from blende is an operation presenting unusual difficulty , owing to the circumstance that compounds of gallium are carried down by various precipitates from solutions which are incapable by themselves of depositing those compounds .
* In the 10th seetion of his " Hydrodynamics .
" t " De rerum Natura , " lib. ii , 111\#151 ; 140 .
\#163 ; 1*0 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Dec. 1 , A Royal Medal has been awarded to A. C. Ramsay , F.R.S. Professor Ramsay has been for a period of nearly forty years connected with the Geological Survey of Great Britain , and during by far the greater part of that time either as Director or Director-General of the Survey .
During this long period in addition to his official labours in advancing our knowledge of the geology of this country , he has published works \#169 ; \gt ; n the " Geology of Arran , " " The Geology of North Wales , " " The Old Glaciers of North Wales and Switzerland .
" and " The Physical Geology and Geography of Great Britain , " now in its fifth edition .
His papers in the " Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , " and elsewhere , are numerous and important , especially those on theoretical questions.in physical geology , such , for instance , as " The Glacial Origin of Lake Basins , " " The Fresh-water Formation of the Older Red Rocks , " - and " The History of the Yalley of the Rhine , and other Talleys of Erosion .
" There are , indeed , among living geologists few who can claim to have done more to extend our knowledge in the important fields of geology and physical geography .
A Royal Medal has been awarded to W. H. Perkin , .
F.R.S. Mr. William Perkin has been , during more than twenty years , one of the most industrious and successful investigators of Organic Chemistry .
Mr. Perkin is the originator of one of the most important branches of chemical industry , that of the manufacture of dyes from coal-tar derivatives .
Forty-three years ago the production of a violet-blue colour by the addition of chloride of lime to oil obtained from coal-tar was first noticed , and this having afterwards been ascertained to be due to the existence of the organic base known as aniline , the production of the colouration was for many years used as a very delicate test for that substance .
The violet colour in question , which was soon afterwards also produced by other oxidising agents , appeared , however , to be quite fugitive , and the possibility of fixing and obtaining in a state of purity the aniline product which gave rise to it , appears not to have occurred to chemists until Mr. Perkin successfully grappled with the subject in 1856 , and produced the beautiful colouring matter known as aniline violet , or mauve , the production of which , on a large scale , by Mr. Perkin , laid the foundation of the coal-tar colour industry .
His more recent researches on anthracene derivatives , especially on artificial alizarine , the colouring matter identical with that obtained from madder , rank among the most important work , and some of them have greatly contributed to the successful manufacture of alizarine in this country , whereby we have been rendered independent of the importation of madder .
Among the very numerous researches of purely scientific interest Election of Fellows .
which Mr. Perkin has published , a series on the hydrides of salicyl and their derivatives , may be specially referred to ; but among the most prominent of his admirable investigations are those resulting in the synthesis of coumarin , the odoriferous principle of the tonquin bean and the sweet scented woodruff , and of its homologues .
The artificial production of glycocol and of tartaric acid by Mr. Perkin conjointly with Mr. Duppa , afford other admirable examples of synthetical research , which excited very great interest among chemists at the time of their publication .
It is seldom that an investigator of organic chemistry has extended his researches over so wide a range as is the case with Mr. Perkin , and his work has always commanded the admiration of chemists for its accuracy and completeness , and for the originality of its conception .
The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers were then read , and Prof. Francis de Chaumont and Dr. Gladstone having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were taken , and the following were declared duly elected as Council and Officers for the ensuing year :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. o , __ f Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. e are %es ' \ Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , LL. D. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander W. Williamson , Ph. D. , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; George Busk , V.P.L.S. ; Professor Arthur Cayley , LL. D. ; Major-General Henry Clerk , R. A. ; Edwin Dunkin , F.R.A.S. ; Augustus G. Vernon Harcourt , F.C.S. ; Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , K.C.S.I. ; John Whitaker Hulke , F.R.C.S. ; Lieut.-General Sir J. Henry Lefroy , C.B. ; William New-march , Inst. Fr. Corr. ; Professor Alfred Newton , M.A. , V.P.Z.S. ; Professor William Odling , M.B. , V.P.C.S. ; Sir James Paget , Bart. , D.C.L. ; William Henry Perkin , Sec. C.S. ; Charles William Siemens , D.C.L. ; John Simon , C.B. , D.C.L. ; Professor John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators .
k 432 Number of Fellow a. [ Dec. 1 , The following Table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows:\#151 ; 1 Patron and Royal .
Foreign .
Com- pounders .
\#163 ; 4 yearly .
\#163 ; 3 yearly .
1 Total .
1 1 -1 j Nov. 30 , 1878 . .
4 44 253 .
248 549 j Since Elected . . .
\#166 ; 4* \amp ; + 4 .
+ 1 + 11 + 22 \ Since Deceased. .
- 2 * \ - 10 - 13 - 31 j December 1,1879 .
4 48 1 241 236 11 540 Statement of Receipts and Expenditure from November 28 , 1878 , to November 19 , 1879 .
Annual Contributions , 242 at \#163 ; 4 ... ... ... ..\#163 ; 968 1 " 11 at \#163 ; 3 ... ... ... ... 33 J Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... , ... ... ... .
Compositions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Rents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Dividends ( exclusive of Trust Funds ) . .
" on Jodrell Fund ... ... ... ... ... . .
Interest on Mortgage Loan ... ... ... ... ... Sale of Transactions and Proceedings ... Interest on Deposits ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Bequest of the late Sir W. C. Trevelyan " " Sydney Ellis , Esq ... Donation from Gr .
Palmer , Esq. , M , P , . .
Sale of land at Acton ... ... ... ... ... . .
Balances from 1878 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... \#163 ; s. d. 1,001 0 0 10 0 0 240 0 0 300 13 1 1,143 16 5 152 4 10 587 10 0 871 12 7 12 14 4 1,500 0 0 1,000 0 0 200 0 0 600 0 0 916 4 7 Salaries and Wages ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Illustrations and Paper for Report of Naturalists ( Transit-of-Venus Expedition ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
The Scientific Catalogue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
The Library Catalogue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Books for the Library ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Binding ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Printing Transactions , Part II .
1878 , and \#163 ; s. d. Separate Copies to Authors and Publisher 223 16 2^ Ditto Proceedings , Nos. 190-197 ... ... .
380 7 5 Ditto Miscellaneous ... ... ... ... ... ... .
62 19 10 Paper for Transactions and Proceedings ... .
159 13 6 [ Binding ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6111 2 Engraving and Lithography ... ... ... . ?
... 520 19 9 Soiree and Reception Expenses ... ... ... Coal , Lighting , \amp ; c ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 108 10 9^ Office Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 11 1 House Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
95 8 0 Tea Expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 19 18 0 Eire Insurance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 41 15 0 )\#166 ; Taxes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 35 3 9 Advertising ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22 4 6 Postage , Parcels , and Petty Charges ... 31 5 10 Miscellaneous Expenses ... ... ... ... ... .
20 18 4_ , Mabletliorpe Schools , Donation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Deposited at Bankers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Purchase of Land at Acton ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Law Charges ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Purchase of \#163 ; 1,396 Gr .
N.R. 4 per Cent. Debentures \#163 ; 8 .
d. 1,146 3 0 1,409 7 10 \#163 ; 8,535 15 10 \#163 ; 7,295 5 7 879 .
] Financial Statement .
438 Donation Fund Dividends Handley Fund " Rumford Fund " Wintringham Fund " Copley Medal Fund " Davy Medal Fund " Croonian Lecture Fund-College of Physicians . .
Trust Funds .
\#166 ; Rent from \#163 ; s. d. 186 4 4T 177 12 10 68 4 8 35 5 0 9 17 6 \gt ; 32 6 2 2 18 9^ \#163 ; 9,048 5 1 \#163 ; s. d. Donation Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
100 0 0^| Handley Fund\#151 ; Purchase of \#163 ; 149 5s .
4d .
Reduced 3 per Cents ... ... ... ... ... .
141 1 2 Rumford Medal Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... .
137 7 1 Davy Medal Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
63 .2 3 \gt ; Wintringham Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
35 8 0 Copley Medal Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 15 1 Bakerian Lecture ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 0 0 Croonian Lecture ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 19 3J Balance at Bank ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .\#151 ; Balances on hand , Catalogue Account ... .
32 2 91 * , " Petty Cash ... ... ... ... . .
9 11 11 / 1,222 12 0 \#163 ; 9,048 5 1 I S r** JOHN EYANS , co p Treasurer , 434 Financial St\gt ; Estates and Property of the Royal including Trust .
Estate at Mablethorpe , Lincolnshire ( 55 A. 2 R. 2 P. ) , \#163 ; 136 per annum .
Estate at Acton , Middlesex ( about 33 acres ) , \#163 ; 161 12s .
10d .
per annum .
\#163 ; 16,588 6s .
2d .
Consolidated Bank Annuities .
\#163 ; 403 9s .
8 d.New 2\#163 ; per Cent. Stock\#151 ; Bakerian and Copley Medal Fund .
\#163 ; 667 5s .
6d .
India Fours .
' ' .
\#163 ; 660 Madras Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Bailway Stock.\#151 ; Davy Medal Fund .
\#163 ; 10,000 Italian Irrigation Bonds.\#151 ; The Gassiot Trust .
\#163 ; 1,396 Great Northem^tailway 4 per Cent. Debentures\#151 ; The Trevelyan Bequest .
\#163 ; 985 4s .
5 d.Metropolitan 3\#163 ; per Cent. Stock.\#151 ; Fee Beduction Fund .
\#163 ; 6,000 London and North Western Bank Stock ( produced \#163 ; 508 17$ .
3d .
in 1878-79 ) .
\#163 ; 20,047 7s .
9d .
Reduced 3 per Cent. Annuities .
\#163 ; 15,000 Mortgage Loan , 4 per Cent. \#163 ; 11,511 6$ .
New Threes Company , Limited .
\#163 ; 240 Deposited at Bankers .
\#163 ; 1,800 " 4 per Cent. Debentures .
Two Hundred Shares in the Whitwoi on General Account .
icial Statement .
435 Trust Funds .
1879 Dr. To Balance ... " Dividends Scientific Relief Fund .
New 3 per Cent. Annuities Metropolitan 3^ Consols . .
\#163 ; S. d. 6,328 11 2 100 0 0 \#163 ; 6,428 11 2 \#163 ; s. d. 169 11 7 189 8 0 \#163 ; 358 19 7 By fi rants " Balance Cr .
\#163 ; s. d. \#163 ; 358 19 7 Donation Fund , \amp ; To Balance " Dividends \#163 ; 6,339 0$ .
Id. Consols .
The Trevelyan Bequest .
\#163 ; 1^896 Great Northern Railway 4 per Cent. Debentures .
\#163 ; s. d\#187 ; 133 1 0 186 4 4 By Grants " Balance \#163 ; s. d. ----------- CD \#163 ; 319 5 4 P \#163 ; 319 5 4 ist F .
Jtumford Fund .
\#163 ; 2,322 19s .
Consols , To Balance , 1878 .
" Dividends , 1879 \#163 ; 205 11 9 \#163 ; s. d , By Medals ... " A. Cornu " Balance . .
\#163 ; s. d. 59 8 1 77 19 0 68 4 *8 \#163 ; 205 11 9 Balcerian and Copley Medal Fund .
\#163 ; 403 9s .
8d .
New 2\#163 ; per Cent. \#163 ; s. d. || To Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 73 19 1 " Dividends ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 ... ... ... . .
9 17 6 \#163 ; 83 16 -7 \#163 ; s. d\#187 ; By Q-old Medal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4 15 1 " Bakerian Lecture ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 0 0 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
75 1 6 \#163 ; 83 16 7 t To Balance , 1878 .
" Dividends , 1879 Wintringkam Fund .
\#163 ; 1,200 Consols .
\#163 ; s. d. 35 8 0 35 5_ 0 \#163 ; 70 13 0 By Payment to Foundling Hospital , 1879 " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
\#163 ; s. d. 35 8 0 35 5 0 \#163 ; 70 13 0 1879.1 Trust Funds .
437 Croonian Lecture Fund .
\#163 ; s. d. To Balance , 1878 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2 19 3 " One-fifth of Bent of Estate at Lambeth Hill , payable by the College of Physicians ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 18 9 \#163 ; 5 18 0 By Croonian Lecture " Balance ... ... ... \#163 ; s , d. 2 19 3 2 18 9 \#163 ; 5 18 0 Davy Medal Fund .
\#163 ; 660 Madras Guaranteed 5 per Cent. Bailway Stock .
To Balance ... " Dividends \#163 ; 202 13 5 \#163 ; s .
d\#187 ; 170 7 3 32 6 2 By Reverse Die , , G-old Medals " Balance ... ... .
\#163 ; s. \#163 ; 202 13 5 Trust .
\#163 ; 10,000 Italian Irrigation Bonds .
To Balance ... " Dividends \#163 ; 786 14 0 \#163 ; di By Payments to Itew Committee . . .
Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
\#163 ; s. dt 495 14 0 291 0 0 \#163 ; 786 14 0 438 Trust Funds .
[ Dec. 1 , To Dividends , 1879 The Jodrell Fund .
\#163 ; 5,182 14s .
10 d.New 3 per Cent. Stock .
By Payment to Royal Society \#163 ; s. d. 152 4 10 .
\#163 ; s. d. ... .
152 4 10 To Balance , 1878 . .
" Dividends , 1879 The Handley Fund .
\#163 ; 6,047 7s .
9 d , Reduced 3 per Cent. Stock .
\#163 ; s. d. 141 12 177 12 10 \#163 ; 318 14 0 By Purchase of \#163 ; 149 5s .
4 Reduced " Balance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
\#163 ; 8 .
d. \#163 ; 318 14 0 Fee Reduction Fund .
\#163 ; s. d. ij To Subscriptions .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... \#166 ; .
7,111 5 0 , , Sir Joseph Whitworth 's Donation of 200 Shares in the Whitworth Land Company , Limited ... .
2,000 0 0 " Transferred from the Jodrell Fund ... ... ... ... . .
1,000 0 0 " Interest on Deposits ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 14 1 " Dividends on Stocks and Shares ... ... ... ... ... . .
261 8 3 \#163 ; 10,405 7 4 5 , November 19 th , 1879 .
* ' \#163 ; 8 .
d. By 200 Shares in the Whitworth Lar.d Company , Limited ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2,000 0 0 " Purchase of \#163 ; 985 4s .
5d .
Metropolitan 3| per Cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1,000 0 0 , , Purchase of \#163 ; 6,000 London and North -Western Railway Company 's 4 per Cent. Debenture Stock 6,408 9 4 " Power of Attorney ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0 11 6 " Balance at Bank ... ... ... ... ... \#163 ; 756 6 6 " Do .
on Deposit ... ... ... ... ... . .
240 0 0 " 1 ----------- 996 6 6 \#163 ; 10,405 7 4 1879 .
] Trust Fur Appropriation of the Government Grant .
[ Dec. 1 Account of Grants from the Donation Fund in 1878-79 .
Messrs. Morrison and Marsden , for a Research into the Solubility of Carbon and Silicon in Fused Metals , and the Form in which they crystallise out on cooling \#163 ; 20 0 0 J. Snodgrass , for a Research into the Absorption of Gases by Solutions of Salts. .
... ... . .
' ... ... ... ... ... 50 0 0 Sir William Thomson , for the Construction of a Machine for solving Simultaneous Linear Equations ... ... 80 0 0 \#163 ; 100 0 0 Account of the appropriation of the sum of \#163 ; 1,000 ( the Government Grant ) annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society , to be employed in aiding the Advancement of Science ( continued from Vol. XXVIII , p. 75 .
) 1879 .
1 .
Dr. Stenhouse , for continuation of Researches into the History of Naphthaline and its Derivatives , and into Gardenine \#163 ; 100 2 .
W. Crookes , for continuation of Researches on the Vis-cosity of Gases at various Exhaustions , and on the Trajectory of Molecules ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
200 3 .
J. Glaisher , towards the expense of Printing the Factor Table of the Fourth Million ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
150 4 .
D. Gill , for obtaining assistance of Computers in finishing the Reductions of the Observations which he made on Mars , at Ascension , 1877 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100 5 .
Capt. Abney , for continuing his Researches on the Spectra of Skylight , and his Investigations on Photographing the Ultrared Portion of the Solar Spectrum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
30 6 .
G. B. Buckton , for aid in Publishing a Monograph of the British Aphides , which may lead to an increased knowledge of the Group , and the Phenomena concerned in their Reproduction 75 7 .
G. E. Dobson , for Investigation of the Natural History of the Mammalian Order Insectivora , embracing\#151 ; ( 1 ) Descriptions of all the known species ; ( 2 ) their distribution in space and time ; ( 3 ) the anatomy of the least known , most interesting , and most typical species ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
25 Carried forward , \#163 ; 680 1879.J Appropriation of the Government Grant .
441 Brought forward ... ... ... ... ... ... \#163 ; 680 8 .
Professor Leith Adams , for completion of the Description of the Remains of British Fossil Elephants ... ... ... ... ... ... .
30 9 .
W. J. Sollas , for an Investigation into the Microscopic Structure of Fossil Sponges ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25 10 .
W. T. Thiselton Dyer , for aid in the Preparation of an Illustrated Monograph of Cycadeae ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25 11 .
E. A. Schafer , for Payment of an Assistant in continuing his Histological and Embryological Investigations ... ... ... ... ... .
50 12 .
Baron Ettingshausen , for Expenses incurred in continuing the Preparation of his Monograph on the Eocene Flora of Great Britain ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 13 .
Professor A. H. Church , for the purpose of completing Researches in Plant Chemistry , and for extending the inquiry into new directions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
: ... . .
40 14 .
E. J. Mills , for the further prosecution of Researches on Standard Industrial Curves ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
70 15 .
J. N. Langley , for a Research into the Secretion of the Salivary Glands , and on the Effect of Section and Stimulation of any one Nerve of the Frog on the Reflex-time of the rest ... .
50 \#163 ; 1020 Dr. s. To Balance on hand , Nov. 30 , 1878 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1032 5 Grant from Treasury , 1879 ... .
1000 0 Interest ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 14 6 204G 12 Or .
d. By Appropriations , as \#163 ; s. d. 8 * above 1020 0 0 0 Printing , Postage , and 9 Advertising Balance on hand , Dec. 4 2 6 1 , 1879 1022 9 11 5 2016 12 5 VOL. XXIX .
Appropriation of the Government Fund .
[ Dec. , Account of Appropriations from the Government Fund of \#163 ; 4,04 made by the Lords of the Committee of Council on Educ-tion , on the recommendation of the Council of the Royi Society .
Arnulph Mallock , for the cost of Cod struction of a Machine for Ruling Diffraction Gratings of large size ... ... ... ... ... . .
G. Gore , for continuation of Researches into the Thermoelectric Properties of Liquids ; the Determination of the Electromotive Force , and internal resistance of a Liquid Thermo-electric Battery , and to complete Tables of Electric Relations of Metals at different Temperatures ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Sir Wm. Thomson , for completing a Tidal Harmonic Analyser Sir Wm. Thomson , for continuation of Experiments on the Effects of Stress on Magnetization ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .* J. Kerr , for continuation of Electro-optic and Magneto-optic I nvestigations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
J. H. Pointing , for continuation of Experiments to determine ' the Mean Density of the Earth , by means of an Ordinary Balance Rev. Dr. Haughton , for continuing his Discussion of Tidal Observations made in Arctic Seas ... ... ... ... ... ... ... * ... ... . .
J. N. Lockyer , for continuation of Researches on the Solar Spectrum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . .
A. Tribe , for Researches into the Distribution of the Radicals of Electrolytes on Metallic Conductors ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... W. C. Roberts , for continuation of Researches on the Passage of Metals and Alloys in a Molten State through Capillary Tubes R. H. Ridout , to investigate more fully the Sound developed in Homogeneous Conductors by Electrical Disturbance ... ... . .
Professors Living and Dewar , for continuing their Researches into the Spectra of Elements and Compounds under various.circumstances ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... E. Heison , for continuation of Computations in the Lunar Theory ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Alex .
Buchan , for the expense of collecting and discussing Data for Determination of the Hourly Means of the Barometer for each Month , from a large number of Stations , on Land and Sea over the Globe ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
W. E. Ayrton , for extending to other Gases the Investigations already made in Air ( by Professor Perry and himself ) on the Electro-motive Force of Contact of Solids and Liquids ... ... ... \#163 ; 2 " If 1( I 2( ' | q i Id Carried forward , \#163 ; 130 1879 .
] Appropriation of the , Government Fund .
443 Brought forward ... ... ... ... ... ... .
\#163 ; 1308 J. B. Jordan , for the construction of a Glycerine Barometer , and for carrying on Observations thereon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
30 W. Galloway , for continuing his Investigation of the Effect of Coal Dust in promoting the Explosion of a Mixture of Air and Fire Damp ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... go H. Tomlinson , for a Research into the Effect of Strain and Pressure on Matter when under the Influences of the Forces of Heat , Electricity , Magnetism , and Chemical Affinity ... ... ... .
100 J. E. H. Gordon , for continuation of Experimental Measurements of the Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics ... ... ... .
100 Rev. G. Henslow , for aid in Researches in Vegetable Physiology : On the Absorption of Dew and Rain , and on the Transpiration of Plants ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
,50 B. T. Lowne , for further Investigation of the Structure and Functions of the Eyes of Invertebrates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
40 Professor M. F. Heddle , for a Research connected with the Scientific Mineralogy and Geognosy of Scotland _______________ 100 W. A. Forbes , for an Examination of the Pterylosisof Parrots , with a view to a better Arrangement and Classification of the Genera of that Sub-order ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 7 Dr. C. Callaway , for a Research into the relations of the Pre-Cambrian and Cambrian Rocks of Shropshire , extension thereof into Scottish Highlands , with a view to the more accurate correlation of the subdivisions of the Lower Palaeozoic Rocks ... .
50 Professor W. K. Parker , for assistance in continuation of Researches on the Morphology of the Vertebrate Skeleton , and the Relations of the Nervous to the Skeletal Structure ... ... 300 H. T. Stainton , in aid of the Publication Fund of the Zoological Record Association ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
100 Professor H. A. Nicholson and R. Etheridge , junior , for continuance of aid in Examining the Fossils , of the Silurian Deposits of Girvan , Ayrshire , and in publishing a Monograph upon them 60 Colonel Godwin-Austen ( Brit. Assoc. Committee ) , for Investigation of the Natural History of the Island of Socotra ... ... 175 Rev. A. E. Eaton , to defray the cost of Printing and Publishing a Descriptive Monograph of the Ephemeridxe ... ... ... .
75 H. Woodward , for continuation of Work on the Fossil Crustacea , especially with reference to the Trilobita and other extinct Forms , and their Publication by the Palseontographical Society ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 75 Dr. W. H. Gaskell , for continuation of Researches upon Vasomotor Action ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 \#163 ; 2675 Carried forward 2 n 2 Appropriation of the Government Fund .
[ Dec. 1 , Brought forward ... ... ... ... ... ... .\#163 ; 2675 C. Lapworth , for assistance in work among the Silurian Bocks of South Scotland , and in special Studies of the British Graptolites ... ... . . . . . . . .
... .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 Professor H.G. Seeley , for continuation of Investigation into the Structure , Affinities , and Classification of the Extinct Beptilia and allied Animals ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 80 Professor W. Stirling , for Investigations into the Histology and Physiology of the Nervous Apparatus of the Lungs ... ... . .
25 Dr. W. B. Hodgkinson , for continuation of Besearches on the Action of Chlorine and of dry Ammonia on Hydro-cinnamein , and other Investigations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
175 C. G. Williams , for investigation of the Chemical History and Physiological Action of / 3 Lutidine ; and for continuation of Besearches on Emeralds and Beryls ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 W. N. Hartley , for continuation of Besearches on the Action of Organic Substances on the Ultra-violet Bays of the Spectrum 150 Professor Schorlemmer , for continuation of Besearches into ( 1 ) Aurin ; ( 2 ) the normal Paraffins ; ( 3 ) Suberone ... ... ... ... 150 J. H. Collins , for continuation of Chemical , Mineralogical , Microscopical , and Stratigraphic Observations on and Investigations of the Bocks of Cornwall ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
E. A. Letts , " for Experiments with Haemat-oxyline , to determine its constitution , and , if possible , to obtain it by Synthesis ; and for Experiments on the Action of Sodium on Hydro-chlorate of Turpentine and others . . . . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
G. C. Bobinson , for the Separation and Examination of Bases of High Boiling Points contained as'Sulphates in the " Vitriol Tar " of the Paraffin Oil Manufacture , and the Determination of Composition and Properties of higher and , at present , unknown members of the Leucoline Series of Bases ... ... ... ... 15 Dr. C. B. A. Wright , for continuation of Besearches on certain points in Chemical Dynamics , and on some of the less known Alkaloids ; and for a Besearch on the Determination of Chemical Affinity by means of Electrical Measurements ... ... ... ... 200 P. P. Bedson and W. C. Williams , for an Investigation into the Specific Befraetive Powers of Benzene Derivatives , and of the Derivatives of other Aromatic Hydro-carbons ... ... ... ... .
50 Dr. Armstrong , for continuation of Observations on the Phenols , and for Experiments on the Action of Beducing Agents on Nitric Acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
150 Administrative expenses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
75 \#163 ; 3955

