VI .
A remarkable Case of a Person cut for the Stone in the new Way , commonly called the lateral ; by William Cheselden , Esq ; Surgeon to Her late Majesty ; communicated to Martin Folks , Esq ; Pr .
R. S. by Mr. Reid , Surgeon at Chelsea , who attended the Cure .
MR. Simpson , of Little Ormond-Srreet , aged Seventy-five , after having been afflicted with the Stone above five Years , and taking Mrs. Steven 's Medicines about a Year before for seven Months successively , without receiving any Benefit , was cut by Mr. Cheselden , March 13 .
1741-2 .
at which time he had a Fit of the Stone upon him , which had continued for ten Days ; and when , consequently , the Bladder and urinary Parts were very much inflamed , this , together with his great Age , made the Success very doubtful .
However , at his own earnest Request , after Consultation , the Operation was performed , and a large flattish round Stone was extracted , weighing very near four Ounces .
Read Jan. 23 .
1745-6 .
The Wound bleeding plentifully from the small Vessels , only a Piece of thin wet Sponge was introduced , that it might bleed for a while through ; intending ( if there should be Occasion ) to the any Vessel afterward , that should require it .
But , contrary to Expectation , this proved the means of stopping the Effusion of Blood ; and , from Experience , in many Cases since , it has been observed , that nothing is so useful as this Method ( thus accidently discovered ) .
About six Hours after the Operation , the Patient having lost but little Blood , it was thought proper to take twelve Ounces of Blood from his Arm .
The Urine flowed freely through the Wound in about two Hours after his being cut , and also thro ' the Penis ; and continued to do so , though with great Pain from the Heat and Sharpness of it ; which excoriated the Parts about , notwithstanding his being dressed every two or three Hours , and the Parts being anointed with a cooling Ointment .
On the fourth Day , not having had a Stool since the Operation , an emollient Clyster was ordered ; which purged him twice , gave him a great deal of Ease , and abated some slight feverish Symptoms that were observed .
This was repeated once in a Day or two for about three Weeks , he being naturally costive .
About a Week after the Operation he complained of a Pain in his Sides , had little convulsive Motions in his Bowels , with Faintings , and the Abdomen swelled : But , on bleeding him eight Ounces , his Pain was removed , and the other Symptoms went off on taking the Confect .
Raleigh .
in Aq .
Paeon .
Comp. every Night for a Week .
During this Time the Wound began to digest , a large Slough cast off , and in it came away several very small Bits of Stone , which had crumbled off in extracting the Stone with the Forceps .
These , by obstructing the free Passage of the Urine , had given him sometimes great Pain , but which was removed by frequently injecting Oil and warm Barleywater thro ' the Penis and Wound .
At the Beginning we made use of a Fomentation made of Absinth .
Roman .
&amp; Flor. Chamaemil .
but it proving too sharp for the excoriated Parts , it was left off , and the Parts bathed with warm Milk , and sometimes Barley-water .
His Diet , the first three Weeks , was nothing but Spoon-Meats and light Pudding , afterward a boiled Chicken , &amp;c. and , in a Fortnight after the Operation , Asses-Milk Night and Morning , from which he received great Benefit , being very thin , and having a Cough , which had afflicted him many Years , and being of a hectic Disposition .
At the End of three Weeks , the Wound was above half healed , the Urine began to come chiefly through the Penis , daily lessening thro ' the Wound ; and when that was near cicatrized , it all came the natural Way , and had lost its Heat and Sharpness ; then his Mouth blistered within , from the Saltness of the Saliva .
For which , during the whole Course of the Cure , he drank plentifully of cooling Emulsions with Gum-Arabick , &amp;c. In five Weeks he was perfectly cured , and continues to this Day without any Return of his Distemper .

