573 [ III .
Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone.\#151 ; Description of Two New Genera .
By E. T. Newton , F.R.S. ( iCommunicated by permission of the Director-General of the Geological Survey .
) Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1893 .
[ Plates 53-56 .
] Contents .
I. Introduction . . . . .
- .
- . .
II .
Description of specimens .
... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 .
Drpetosuchus Granti , gen .
et sp. nov . . .
2 .
Ornithosuchus Wood , gen .
et sp. nov .
3 .
Note on some fragmentary specimens .
II .
List of Works consulted . . . . . .
[ V. Explanation of Plates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
PAGE I. INTRODUCTION .
be the reading of my previous paper ( 68# ) , * On some New Reptiles from the Igi Sandstone/ several additional specimens have come to me for examination , by are all from the Elgin Sandstone , but , with possibly one exception , are from the irry at Spynie , two miles north-east of Elgin .
Two of these specimens are new ns , representing two new genera , and form the subject of the present communicao .
One of them , like all those in the earlier paper , is in the condition of hollow wlds , and a similar mode of investigation has been resorted to , namely , the pre-nation of gutta-percha casts from the cavities .
In the second specimen the bones ^re present , but in a very friable condition ; the skull , however , owing to the care wh which it was uncovered by Mr. Richard Hall , of the British Museum , is now dutifully preserved , and most of the caudal vertebrae are still in situ , * but the ?
*ater part of the rest of the skeleton had hopelessly crumbled away with the taking open of the stone , and , for these parts , the casting process had again to be 1 sorted to before the forms of the bones could be seen .
* These numbers refer to the List of Works , p. 603 .
4.9.94 II .
DESCRIPTION OF SPECIMENS .
I. Erpetosuchus Granti , nov .
( Plate 53 .
) General Remarks .
The first specimen to be noticed is contained in a small block of sandstone t ] property of Mr. James Grant , of Lossiemouth , who has been good enough to pia it in my hands for development and description .
The exact locality from which came is uncertain , as it had been used for part of a breakwater before its value w discovered ; but there is no doubt as to its being from the Elgin Sandstone , and in i probability it came originally from the quarry at Lossiemouth , or that at Spyn When the block first came to me it had been broken across in two directions , and o piece was wanting .
The two portions remaining formed an irregular cube , showii on one side some small cavities , which proved to be parts of the vertebral column th had been broken across .
Another surface , exposed by the breaking open of the stoi exhibited several holes , the meaning of which could only be conjectured , and an oi line wThich seemed to indicate a transverse section of a skull .
These remains , like those from Cuttie 's Hillock , are , as already mentioned , on represented by hollow cavities ; in the present instance , however , this is probat due to weathering since the stone wras removed from the quarry .
In order to reproduce the forms of the bones , it was necessary , as in previo instances , to split open the cavities , and then , by chiselling away such parts as con be best spared , so to expose the hollow moulds that casts could be prepared frc them .
After carefully probing to find in which direction the bones lay , for at tl time the nature of the specimen was very uncertain , it was decided to split the small block from end to end , so as , if possible , to open longitudinally a cavity which seem to be part of a skull .
This operation was successful beyond expectation , for it displayed not only t impression of the hinder half of the skull divided nearly vertically and longitudinal !
but also a good portion of the vertebral column , surmounted by a row of small pittf scutes .
Moreover , it was now certain that the anterior part of the skull was in tl larger block of stone , and its direction was shown by the position of the hinder par so that , after partly sawing through this larger piece of stone , it also was split opt vertically ; .and thus was displayed not only the front of the skull , but also part of ramus of the lower jaw .
Further development revealed the pectoral arch , with bo : the fore limbs as nearly as possible in their natural positions .
It was now evidei that the skeleton must have been entire when embedded in the sand , and the lo* portion of the block of stone doubtless contained the greater part of the body , wit the hind limbs and tail , of this exceedingly pretty little reptile , the skull of which only three inches in length .
MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
Description .
In the descriptions which follow , it will be understood that , for convenience be the casts are alluded to as if they were the original bones .
bre can be no doubt that the skull , and , indeed , all the parts of this skeleton 0 have been preserved , have a very crocodile-like appearance , although in certain m differs widely from any living crocodile and can only be compared with the agio Parasuchia .
kn from above ( Plate 53 , fig. 2 ) , the skull is very regularly pear-shaped , being a and rounded in the temporal region , somewhat narrowed posteriorly , more [ ly narrowed in front of the orbits , but enlarging again near the front , before mating in a rather pointed anterior extremity .
1 this view , eight distinct openings are seen , namely , a pair of proportionately r supra-temporal fossae , the still larger and almost circular orbits , a pair of aated pre-lachrymal fossae , and , quite anteriorly , a pair of small nasal apertures , mfra , -temporal fossa is also just visible on the side in this view , making in all ten mgs .
Yery little can be seen of the sutures , but there is no doubt as to the teal position of most of the bones , although their exact extent is uncertain .
De small anterior apertures , which are doubtless the external nares , are bounded font , and partly separated from each other , by a small bone ( or pair of bones ) iii is evidently the united premaxillse .
This bone has a somewhat greater extent on nml aspect ( fig. 3 ) , and gives evidence of having supported three or four teeth on .
] side .
How much of the dentary margin was formed by the premaxillse is not uu , but the notch , seen most distinctly on the left side , although to some extent 6to imperfection , apparently marks the division between it and the maxilla ; the itr being expanded at its front part and carrying larger teeth .
The median , upper cess of the premaxillse is pointed and wedged into a cleft in the anterior end of tlarge flat bone , which forms the posterior boundary of the nasal apertures and ily the whole of the preorbital upper surface ; no definite median suture can be Q , but this area is almost certainly formed by the two nasal oones .
Towards the \gt ; t a groove is seen passing downwards on each side just behind the nasal aperture , bh is clearly part of the naso-maxillary suture , and the sharp thread-like line , ning backwards from this suture nearly to the orbit , divides the upper from i side walls of this part of the skull , and , apparently , also marks the division eveen the nasal and maxillary bones .
AYhile the nasal bones are nearly smooth , the '\lt ; ital , or interorbital region is marked by irregular pittings , which anteriorly become iges and grooves that terminate rather abruptly , and seemingly mark the j unction of i- frontal and nasal bones , but no suture is visible .
Posteriorly the rugosities of the ratals also end abruptly ; the inter-temporal , or parietal region being almost smooth , i a little below the level of the frontal bones ; this region has a median longitudinal L which posteriorly joins the transverse ridge that marks the hinder boundary of the upper surface and the upper margin of the occiput .
The transverse ridge e*fen outwards on each side to the squamosal region , and seems to be formed chiefly k i parietal bones , which form a comparatively broad band of bone on the upper sttrfc behind the supra-temporal fossae , and extend for a short distance on the occiJH There is no trace of a pineal fossa .
A side view of the skull ( fig. 1 ) shows the same five vacuities that were seen fr0 ] above ; but the infra-temporal and pre-lachrymal fossae are here better shown , the supra-temporal fossa is only just visible .
As already mentioned the premaxilla small , and seemingly is restricted to the anterior half of the narial opening , | thickened dentary margin which supports the larger teeth , apparently belonging \ the maxilla .
The whole of the side wall of the skull , between the anterior nares an the orbit , forms a deep and clearly-defined depression , marked off from the upper are lower surfaces by sharp ridges , which meet and form a rounded front a little behir the nasal opening .
The upper part of this depression is occupied by a thin , wrinkle plate of bone , which partly separates it from the internal cavity ; and the appearam of this , together with the sharply-defined margins , makes it probable that the spa\lt ; was occupied by some soft tissue , possibly a gland .
A large vacuity at the lower pa opens into the internal cavity of the skull .
The front part of this fossa is doubtle !
formed by the maxilla , as well as much of the flattened surface , seen on the und parts ; but how far it extends backwards is not seen , and probably the hinder portic of this depressed area and the front margin of the orbit are due to prefrontal are lachrymal elements , the sutures not being visible .
The upper and side aspects of this skull , behind and including the orbits , have t close a resemblance to the same parts in , that it is in the highest degn probable that the bony elements , entering into its construction , occupy the san relative positions , but there are very few indications of sutures to mark the boundaries .
Judging from the position of the post-palatine vacuity ( fig. 3 ) , tl maxilla seems to extend backwards to about the middle of the orbit ( fig. 1 ) , fro .
' which it is probably excluded by the jugal .
The sub-orbital bar divides posteriori into two branches which form the upper and lower boundaries of the infra-tempon fossa .
The lower branch becomes much attenuated , and its pointed end seems to tj received into a socket of the bone which forms the lower and outer part of the pedicl supporting the lower jaw ; the pointed bar is evidently the jugal bone , and the sock receiving it is as certainly formed by the quadrato-jugal ; the latter bone probabl forms the outer border of the pedicle , with the quadrate altogether on its inn aspect .
The upper branch of the sub-orbital bar , passing backwards , unites first with the post-oroital bar , and then with the bones of the squamosal region to form tb supra-temporal bar , to which is likewise attached the upper end of the pedicle fc the lower jaw .
The hinder end of the squamosal is pointed and free , and is not i close relation with the exoccipital process , as it generally is in crocodiles .
The occiput is broken , but something of its structure may still be deciphered mE T NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
577 til is a single bead-like occipital condyle , with a pit in its middle , and above this framen magnum is indistinctly seen .
On each side a large process passes off h he exoccipital region , and that of the right side is seen to extend upwards and wrds , so as to overhang somewhat , and come into close relation with , the quadrate elation .
This right exoccipital is obscured by two projecting pieces of bone c as there is nothing to correspond with them on the left side , are believed to be cntal , and probably are portions of the atlas vertebra pressed out of place ist the exoccipital .
Above the foramen magnum the bone is much broken , here is a considerable space without bone below the upper or parietal margin occiput .
It seems probable that the supraoccipital is wanting , and that the ein place above the foramen is to be attributed to the exoccipitals , which most 1 meet above the foramen magnum .
%en clearing away the matrix , the impression of a bone was seen passing mis from the side of the cranial cavity , somewhat in front of the exoccipital j'n the inner and upper part of the quadrate and also the squamosal .
The ( upper part of this bone , in a back view of the skull , is above and in front of the cipital process .
On comparing these parts with the same region in a crocodile , selear that this widened part of the bone must have formed the front wall of the Liory passage through which the columella passed .
In the fossil , however , in its mt condition , the passage is not completed behind , as it is in the crocodile , by meeting of the squamosal with the quadrate and exoccipital processes .
le Palate of this skull ( fig. 3 ) differs widely from that of any recent crocodile , ^approaches the condition found in the Triassic The greatest iliarity is found in the forward position of the posterior tiares , and in the deep \gt ; wh which occupies nearly the entire length of the middle region .
The roof of inaouth near the premaxillse and the thickened parts of the maxillae , that is to ?
the part surrounded by the teeth , is slightly arched ; but nearly opposite the dermost tooth , the palate is suddenly deepened and a sharply defined trough is n.ed , which extends to the hinder end of the palate , and may indeed be said to ab to the basioccipital condyle .
This trough is a little wider in the middle than 1 at either end ; anteriorly , the sharp overhanging edges appear to be formed by * maxillae , these bones probably extending back as far as the post-palatine cities ( pt .
pi .
) , which lie close to the sides of the hinder part of the trough .
It robable that both palatines and pterygoids help to form the inner boundaries of 1 post-palatine vacuities .
In each side of the trough and extending backwards from the hindermost tooth* i*re is an edentulous , flattened edge almost certainly formed by the maxilla , which As a little inwards and widens at its hinder end , where it embraces the front of ^ P0st-palatine vacuity .
On the outer sides of these edges the under surface of skull forms a wide obliquely flattened area which slopes outwards and upwards to constitute the sharp lower margins of the pre-lachrymal depressions , seen on sides of the skull , This oblique area is narrow just behind the teeth ( 5 millims. ) where it is p$y formed entirely by the maxilla , but widens as it passes backwards , its greatest wid being opposite the post-palatine vacuity , and directly below the orbit , at which p8 it is probably formed chiefly by the jugal , but no suture between this bone and t maxilla is visible .
The posterior nares are placed quite at the front part of t median trough and below the front half of the pre-lachrymal vacuity ; each is abc 18 millims. long and 3*5 millims. wide , and is partly hidden in figure 3 by t overhanging sides of the trough .
There is no reason for doubting that the oui and front walls of the posterior nares are formed by the maxillse , and it is probat though not certain , that the premaxillae are shut out by the meeting of the maxi !
in the middle line .
The median part of the trough is occupied by a narrow spindle-shaped area , with thread-like border on each side , which extends backwards nearly to the hinder pi of the pterygoids , where it ends in a point , and forwards , between the poster nares , for at least two-thirds of their length .
If this area is formed by a distil bone it can only be the vomer , and it is uncertain whether it is separated from t posterior nares by forward processes of the palatines or pterygoids .
It is by means clear what share the two bones last-named take in the formation of t trough .
In both crocodiles and lizards the post-palatine vacuity is bounded behind a outwardly by the transverse bone , which unites by a T-shaped piece with i maxilla and jugal , while the stem is applied to the descending process of n pterygoid .
A precisely similar bone , occupying a similar position , is seen in I present specimen , and is without doubt a transverse bone .
Passing backwards fri this the pterygoids are seen as strong ridges , extending to , and abutting upon I basisphenoid , where they are united in the middle line , leaving no indication of $ inter-pterygoid foramen , such as may be seen in Sphenodon and Phytosaui ( Belodon ) .
The pterygoids , passing forwards , probably form part of the post-palati vacuity , and they seem to extend along the sides of the vomer , perhaps to t posterior nares , but it is most likely that the palatines form the posterior , and : some extent the inner , boundaries of these apertures .
The palatines seem to fo\#163 ; the side walls of the trough , and are , therefore , largely hidden in this view frt below ; they most likely form part of the inner wall of the post-palatine vacuil and extend forwards to the posterior nares ; but the absence of sutures leaves the : points uncertain .
To return to the pterygoids , close to their junction with the basisphenoid , eai gives off a large process , backwards , outwards , and upwards to the quadrate .
Tl= process , at its origin , is compressed from side to side , but is comparatively deep ; tip condition is speedily reversed and the process becomes a wide and depressed boi* MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
579 boad outer end being applied to the under surface of the quadrate .
In all pro-ijby much of the outer part of this bone is a process from the quadrate , but no Lie is visible to divide it from the pterygoid .
Each pterygoid , therefore , is seen iv the characteristic triradiate form , one short limb passing forwards and out-(5 to the transverse bone , a second large and broad process extending backwards quadrate , while a third process seemingly extends forwards along the trough )|e palate .
le palatal surface of the vomer ( ?
) is marked by irregular pits , similar to those 4 usually give attachment to cartilage , and it seems possible , therefore , that in the g animal there was a median cartilaginous septum ; and this leads to the tise , that possibly the sharp overhanging sides of the trough gave attachment to tissues , which may have separated this trough more or less completely from the oral cavity of the mouth .
If this were the case , the posterior nares , in the living ial , must have been thrown far back , as in recent crocodilia , but with the two nasal tges formed by soft tissues , and not by bone .
lie base of the cranium between the occipital condyle and the pterygoid bones , 8 no indication of its division into basioccipital and basisphenoid ; it is concave from before backwards and from side to side .
A little in front of the condyle , j evidently formed by the basioccipital , there is a pair of rounded processes acting almost directly downwards , and from each of these a ridge passes forwards becomes a long laterally compressed and downwardly directed process at the front of the basisphenoid .
Just in front of these processes , the pterygoids are attached he base of the cranium .
ower Jaw.\#151 ; Impressions of both the rami of the lower jaw are preserved , but display either of them from end to end would endanger other parts of the head , irly the whole of the left ramus is seen , and this shows the form from the front to nd the lateral vacuity ; while the hinder part of the right ramus is uncovered as forward as the middle of the lateral vacuity .
The form of the entire ramus , before , is known and is represented in the figure ( Plate 53 , fig. 1 ) , the front part ag drawn from the left side ( fig. 4 ) , and reversed .
The entire ramus measures millims. in length , and 10 millims. in height at its deepest part , that is near the der part of the lateral vacuity .
The lower jaw , corresponding with the form of the dl , is narrow in front , but the rami diverge considerably as they pass backwards .
3 symphysis is comparatively long , and seems to extend for perhaps 23 millims. from ^ front .
The teeth are restricted to the anterior third of the ramus , and eleven may counted on the left side .
The external lateral vacuity commences at 39 millims. \gt ; m the front , and is 22 millims. long , while the articulation for the quadrate 514 millims. behind this vacuity , and the hinder extremity extends for another L millims. backwards .
Near the hindermost teeth the outer part of the dentary , rder begins to form a lateral ridge , which becomes better defined as it passes back-nds , and overhanging the hinder part of the lateral vacuity , divides this region of the outer surface into two oblique areas , an upper and a lower , which terminate ali in front of the articulation .
Although the sutures are not all very distinct there are sufficient to show that usual elements are present .
The articulare extends on the inner side quite dowi the lower margin , and appears on the outer surface ( fig. 1 ) , where an impressed 1 extending almost to the lateral vacuity , marks its union with the angulare * latter bone occupying nearly all the triangular area seen , in a side view , below articulation .
The surangular extends from below the articulation to the lat vacuity , and over this possibly to near its anterior extremity , being itself overlaic the backward process of the dentary .
The lower process of the dentary passes be the lateral vacuity , but at what point it meets the angulare is uncertain .
There indications of a splenial element extending forwards to within 15 millims. of front of the jaw , but its hinder extremity is not shown .
Dentition.\#151 ; The teeth are irregular and vary considerably in size ; but they are \lt ; slender , conical , and recurved ; their mode of implantation is not clearly shown , the evidence , so far as it goes , is in favour of their being in distinct alveoli , largest teeth are 5 or 6 millims. long and 2 millims. thick at their bases ; they found in the upper jaw in the thickened part of the bone which I have above refer as the maxilla .
Two of these large teeth are to be seen on each side ; they are direi downwards , backwards , and but little if at all outwards .
From the position !
these teeth , and from the appearance of the alveolar border , there seem to be sp for four of these large teeth on each side , but possibly they were never all in plac one time .
Two smaller teeth ( about 2 millims. long ) are preserved on the right nearly at the anterior extremity , and evidently in the premaxilla ; they are , perb turned a little more outwards than the large teeth .
On the left side the alve border of the premaxilla is best seen and this seems to show spaces for three or teeth , all smaller than those of the maxilla .
I have been unable to find tn of teeth or alveoli behind the large teeth of the maxilla , although the more exten dental series of the lower jaw led one to expect that corresponding teeth woulc found in the upper jaw .
\ Eleven irregularly spaced teeth may be counted in the left mandibular rai within 25 millims. of the anterior extremity .
They differ much in size , but none quite so long as the largest ones of the upper jaw , and some are very small .
Pectoral Arch.\#151 ; The impressions of the greater part of both scapulae , the coracoids , and the upper surface of the interclavicle have been exposed ; they occ very nearly their natural relations to each other , but the scapulae have possibly b pressed down into a more horizontal position than they naturally held .
The scapula ( figs. 9 , 9a ) is an elongated slender bone , rod-like in the mid\lt ; flattened and expanded above , and curved much forwards at its lower end , where widens so as to form an arched plate , the concavity of which looks downwards \#163 ; outwards .
The upper edge of this plate forms a strong ridge , and apparently cor MR , E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
581 oils with the process found in a similar position in the scapula of the crocodile .
, eower edge of this plate is thickened and rough , and is , in part , attached to the raioid , but a space is left between the two bones which was evidently occupied by r^age ; posteriorly this space widens , and both the bones become thicker , thus ^ng the glenoid cavity .
A little above the glenoid articulation ( 7 millims. ) , on enner aspect of the scapula ( fig. 9a ) , there is a distinct prominence which appears 1 for the ligamentous attachment of a clavicle , and there is some evidence that sja bone existed .
le length of the scapula from the glenoid cavity to the upper extremity is aillims .
From the same point to the anterior extremity 11 millims. Diameter saft 3 millims. Width at upper extremity 6*5 millims. iich Coracoid ( fig. 9 ) is a small quadrate bone about 10 millims. from front to c , and 7 millims. wide ; it is deeply concave above and convex below , with a :\ght and thickened inner edge .
The impressions of both coracoids are seen lying 5 above the inter-clavicle ( fig. 14 ) and very nearly meeting in the middle line ; but f are a little out of place , and the thickened edge of the right one looks more cwards than inwards , this , however , is partly due to displacement .
It is tolerably ient that the inner edges of the coracoids were naturally placed at an angle to 0 other and were attached either to the oblique front edges of the inter-clavicle , or 1 plate of cartilage in relation with the inter-clavicle .
The coracoid ( fig. 9 ) seems \gt ; e attached to the scapula at two points , with an opening between ; but whether ii is accidental , or represents the coracoid foramen , is uncertain .
%e inter-clavicle ( fig. 14 ) is attenuated at both extremities , it is about 35 millims. g , and anteriorly has the form of an arrow-head , the widest part of which is illims .
The front is curved a little upwards and its end is bead-like ; for a short iiance behind this there is a median raised line , and then follows a shallow depres-ift extending nearly to the hinder end .
The probable relation of this bone to the cacoids has been alluded to above .
)n the left side , lying in close relation to the scapula , coracoid , and inter-clavicle , Ire is a curved bone which is very suggestive of a clavicle , but the evidence is tumeient for any definite interpretation .
Humerus.\#151 ; The impressions of the greater part of both humeri are preserve !
iate 53 , figs. 10 , 10a , 12 ) , and with the exception of the distal articular condyles , \#174 ; form of the bone is well shown .
The greatest length is 38 millims. ; the width the proximal end , including the pectoral crest , is 9 millims. , and the distal extremity r*asures as nearly as possible the same ; while the middle of the shaft has a diameter ' scarcely 3 millims. The bone is somewhat twisted so that the expansions of the .
o extremities are not in the same plane .
The proximal articulation is compressed , * d seems to be continued by a ridge into the large pectoral crest , which extends the shaft to about 16 millims. from the proximal end of the bone .
The upper irfhce ( fig. 12 ) in this region is convex from side to side , and the downward projection of the pectoral crest makes the lower surface ( fig. 10 ) deeply concave .
The midd the shaft is almost cylindrical .
The upper aspect ( fig. 12 ) of the expanded \lt ; 3 extremity is marked by a triangular depression , which is continued between articular condyles , the latter appearing to be very definitely divided ; but this pj somewhat obscured by the upper end of the tibia .
The under surface ( fig. 10 ) o distal expansion is convex , but this gives place to the groove between the cond1 it is in this part that the humeri are most defective , both condyles being absent the bone of the left side , and only one is shown on the right .
Radius and Ulna.\#151 ; The right and left bones are both represented ( figs. 11 , but on neither side are they quite perfect , the proximal end in all cases being c tive .
Sufficient , however , is preserved on the right side to show that both r ; and ulna were about 30 millims. long and nearly straight , the latter being larger the former .
Proximally the ulna is flattened from before backwards , and the rad rounded , while distally both bones seem to be laterally compressed .
Fore-feet.\#151 ; Portions of both the fore-feet are present ( figs. 11 , 13 ) , that 01 left side being the more perfect .
It is the plantar surface of the left foot ( fi^ which is preserved , and five metacarpals may be seen very nearly in their na positions , the middle one seeming to be the longest .
Only a few of the phali could be traced , although it is probable they were all present , but the coarse no prevented their being successfully uncovered .
It is the upper surface of the foot ( fig. 13 ) which is shown , and here also the five metacarpals are present , but are somewhat displaced .
Carpal bones are preserved ; but , in spite of numerous casts and very examination of the impressions left in the stone , I am unable to satisfy myself their number .
There seem to be four cavities in the stone , one or two of which be the ends of the metacarpals .
The cast taken from these cavities may be interp as two , or perhaps three , ossicles in a proximal row , and one between these an middle metacarpals ; but the number is uncertain , and the settlement of this poi structure must await the discovery of a more perfect specimen .
Vertebrae.\#151 ; Immediately behind the head are the .
impressions of a series of verb which have been split open vertically and longitudinally .
The twelve anl vertebrae are present in a more or less perfect condition , and ( excepting the first casts taken from their impressions give a very satisfactory knowledge of their s ture ; parts obscured on one side are shown on the other ; for example , the centre neural arches are well seen in several instances on the left side ( fig. 5 ) , but the n spines are hidden by the scutes which have been pressed down upon them .
Or right side , however ( fig. 6 ) , the neural spines and articulations of all the verb from the second to the sixth inclusive , are clearly seen .
There are only fragmer the tenth , eleventh , and twelfth vertebrae .
When speaking of the occiput , p. 577 , mention was made of some fragments , ] ably parts of a vertebra , pressed against the exoccipital ; these are most likely ] UR .
E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
583 tl first or atlas vertebra , but they are too indistinct to give any idea of their form .
14e succeeding vertebrae , so far as can be seen , are bi-concave .
The second or L rertebra ( fig. 6 ) has the neural spine much elongated from before backwards \gt ; illims .
) , and it overlaps the greater part of the succeeding vertebra ; the neural 'bilso extends a little in front of its own centrum , and was doubtless in close rela-with an odontoid bone , not now in place .
The centrum is slightly concave in n , for articulation with the odontoideum , and rather more concave behind .
The fe of the centrum are pinched in so as to form a sharp and deep median keel , and s haracter is repeated in all the centra which are preserved .
The third vertebra 5 he neural spine narrow from before backwards and almost pointed above , while )s of the succeeding vertebrae gradually increase a little in antero-posterior extent , eaeural arch presents , in a side view , a wide , flattened , trapezoidal area , the upper t'S of which form the anterior and posterior zygapophyses , and these articulations .
articularly well shown on the right side .
lie union of the neural arches with the centra is best seen on the left side , where 3 utures may still be traced .
Similar neural arches are found as far back as the :t vertebra , but with a slight increase in size .
The sixth vertebra shows , just os the neuro-central suture and near the middle of the centrum , a tuberosity , iih corresponds in position with the upper articular process for the cervical rib rl on the sixth vertebra of a young alligator used for comparison , but it is oortionately smaller and does not form a distinct process .
riie seventh and eighth vertebrse are broken and partly hidden , but the ninth g , 5 and 7 ) shows the upper articulation for the rib , well up on the side of the sval arch , while a lower articular surface is seen just below the neuro-central tree and near the front of the centrum ; both these articular surfaces agree with t\#171 ; e found in the corresponding ninth vertebra of the alligator .
he vertebrse behind the ninth are indistinct , but portions of two dorsal ribs are L'-ent , and they both have double heads .
It is clear , therefore , that each of the amor dorsal ribs had a double articulation with its vertebra , and that the options of the articular surfaces of the ninth vertebra correspond with those of the ith vertebra of the alligator .
It is also evident that , passing ?
forwards , the upper reulation descends to the neuro-central suture on the sixth vertebra ; while this Ujre and the upper articulation encroach more and more upon the centrum from 1 fifth to the second vertebra .
Near the front part of the centrum of each of the Verier three or four vertebrse a slight rugosity is seen , which may be an articular \gt ; vface for the lower process of the cervical rib ; but as the sixth vertebra does not any such lower articulation , it is uncertain whether or not the cervical ribs had bble articulations .
I have been unable to trace any of the cervical ribs .
Scutes.\#151 ; A continuous series of closely opposed scutes is seen extending , in the x\#163 ; ion of the neural spines , from the occiput as far backwards as the specimen is { eserved .
In no part can more than two scutes be certainly seen side by side , and it seems probable , therefore , that there were only two longitudinal rows in cervical and early dorsal regions ; but as the scutes , which are seen , are all on left side of the neural spines , and it is possible that others may be hidden in matrix , one cannot speak with certainty .
All the scutes are quadrate and lc than they are wide , the proportion being about three to two , one of the hinder measuring about 7*5 millims. by 5 milJims .
; each has a longitudinal ridge , whi rather nearer the outer than the inner margin ; and the exposed surfai ornamented by distinct pits , which are rounded near the middle of each scute more or less elongated towards the edges .
These pittings have a tendency to ra from the middle of the scute .
On the outer side of the hindermost pair of scutes ( that is the ninth pair corn from the front , and overlying the eleventh or twelfth vei*tebra ) there is a frag which looks like a piece of another scute , and this may possibly indicate an inc in the number of rows of scutes in the dorsal region .
Affinities .
The general form of the upper part of the skull of this specimen agrees so cl with the crocodilia generally and with Teleosaurus in particular , that there ca little question as to these parts being constructed upon the same plan .
The and position of the four cavities , so characteristic of the skulls of ordinary croco namely , the two supratemporal fossae and the orbits , are well exhibited in this j and there is a similar narrowness of the frontal and parietal regions .
The external nasal apertures are placed near the front extremity , but are divided by in our fossil , although usually undivided in recent crocodilia .
In all these partio except the last , Teleosaurus approaches nearer to our fossil than do the recent \#163 ; The in fra-temporal fossa seen on the side of this skull is found also in the r crocodiles , but in them it is not so distinctly divided from the orbit in front from the auditory channel behind .
In both these particulars , again , Teleosaurus nearly resembles this fossil , as it does *\amp ; lso in the position of the quadrate pe The large pre-lachrymal vacuity finds no counterpart in the recent crocodilia ; present in Teleosaurus , although much smaller ; but the latter genus has no si depression of the side walls in the vicinity of the vacuity .
If only the upper part of this little skull were known , the palate being hie there would have been but little hesitation in regarding it as a close ally o 1 saurus ; but the fortunate preservation of so many important features of the p prevents any such reference .
The forward position of the posterior nares { the palate a very lizard-like character , and is quite unlike any form of Eusueh Mesosuchia , but resembles the condition found in that of the Triassic Parasuchi described by Professor Huxley in his memoir on the Elgin Stagonolepis ( 17 , Unfortunately , the skull of the latter genus is very imperfectly known , but mb E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
585 Scent is preserved ( 18 , Plate 9 ) to show that there are important resemblances , as | s differences , between it and the present specimen .
Professor Huxley 's figures similar divergence from the living crocodilia in the forward position of the |for nares , and absence of any inward growth of the palatines and pterygoids to incomplete bony channels , such as are found in more recent forms , and which throw s osterior nares so far back .
The possibility that , in the present specimen the Uipassages were carried further back by soft tissues , has been noticed on p. 579 .
oaer important resemblance between this skull and that of Stagonolepis is the isnce of the large pre-lachrymal vacuity .
Professor Huxley pointed out the oy with Belodon ( Phytosciurus ) which both these peculiarities indicate . ?
Vnas two troughs along the palate , separated by a prominent median ridge , md by the pterygoids and vomers , while in the present specimen there is but a t* and much narrower median trough , the vomers and pterygoids not being meant , but forming , apparently , the bottom of the trough .
The relation of the n to the pre-lachrymal vacuity and to the infra-temporal fossa , as well as the width te inter-orbital space , is very different in the two forms .
le teeth of Stagonolepis are short and stout , with inflated but somewhat nressed crowns , and differ , therefore , in a marked manner from the slender , xing , recurved teeth of the present specimen .
1 comparison be made with Pkytosaurus ( 65 , 66 , 18 ) , similar pre-lachrymal cities will be found , and the relation of these to the orbits and to the anterior s apertures will be seen to closely resemble the arrangement of the corresponding rs in our Elgin fossil .
It is the enormous development of the premaxillary region hytosaurus which makes the two skulls so unlike in general appearance .
The fa-temporal fossae in the last-named genus , are not seen as distinctly circumscribed eings on the upper surface of the skull , and consequently the hinder part of this gm has a different aspect in the two forms .
be palate of this Elgin skull bears a closer resemblance to that of Pkytosaurus \amp ; to that of Stagonolepis , for Pkytosaurus has a single median trough , and the \gt ; sers and pterygoids do not form a median ridge as they do in Stagonolepis .
The yygoids in Pkytosaurus and in the present specimen have a similar relation to the ^sphenoid ; in both this bone has a backwardly-directed quadrate process , resenting more the lacertilian than the ordinary crocodilian type of structure .
In the 4in skull , however , the pterygoids have completely united in front of the basi-penoid , but in Pkytosaurus there is an inter-pterygoid foramen , and this is a\#187 ; ortant , as indicating a nearer approach to the lacertilian and rhynchocephalian dition of the pterygoids than is found in any ordinary crocodilian ; indeed the ambiance between this part of the palate in Pkytosaurus and in Sphenodon is \#166 ; Markable .
The pectoral arch of this Elgin specimen differs from that of the ordinary croco-*an m its more elongated scapula and its shortened coracoid , but in these parti-^Dcecxciv.\#151 ; b. 4 f culars again it resembles Stagonolepis and and seemingly apn^ the lizards , a shorter coracoid being generally characteristic of the latter group the elongated scapula is paralleled in the chamseleon .
The fore limbs conform to crocodilian pattern , but it is possible that the carpus may prove to be of a n generalized type .
The vertebrae correspond in a striking manner with those ordinary crocodiles , although it is not certain that there were doubly articuh cervical ribs , and the amphicoelous centra again link them on to the Parasuchia .
ornamented dorsal scutes also point to a similar relationship .
The above comparison shows most unmistakably that the specimen here descri is more nearly related to the Parasuchia than to any group of living reptiles in the form of the upper part of the skull it approaches the mesosuchian genus Tt saurus .
And further , those points of its structure in which it differs from Eusuchia and Mesosuchia , namely , the forward position of the posterior nares , presence of a pre-lachrymal vacuity , the bi-concave vertebrae , the elongated scap and the short coracoid , \#151 ; are just those points in which it resembles Stagonolepis Phytosaurus .
There seems no doubt , therefore , that our specimen is most no related to these two forms , and that its proper systematic position is with thei the Parasuchia , whether this group be retained as a division of the Crocodile raised to a distinct order , as suggested by Mr. It .
Lydekker ( 24 , p. 235 ) .
It be obvious , however , that the differences in the skulls prevent a reference of the pre specimen to either of the above-named genera .
It is separated from the structure of the palate , by the different arrangement of the openings on upper surface , and by the form of the teeth .
On the other hand , it is distinguii from Phytosaurus by its short premaxillary region , by the very different form of temporal region and fossae , by the proportionately large and differently placed oii also by the absence of an inter-pterygoid foramen , by the narrowly troughed pal and by the restricted area occupied by its teeth .
I suggest for this reptile the name of Granti .
2 .
Ornithosuchus Woodwardi , gen .
et nov .
( Plates 54 , 55 , 56 .
) General Remarks .
The second specimen to be described is one that was discovered a few years by the Pev .
Dr. Gordon , in the reptiliferous sandstone at Spynie , near Elgii locality rendered classical by the discovery , in the year 1851 , of the celebr* Telerpeton Elginense .
The present specimen was sent by Dr. Gordon to the Br ' Museum , and at that time showed the greater part of a vertebral column , with f ' of the hind limbs ; also a series of small scutes , and a lower jaw broken thrcfi horizontally so as to show several teeth in cross-section .
The bones themsek although present , were in an exceedingly friable condition , and , where broken throTp MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES PROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
587 JJ splitting open of the stone , had largely crumbled away .
The skull , which vlorms a conspicuous and important part of the specimen , was at that time wholly icaled , and was discovered in one of the slabs under the lower jaw by Mr. 'Ard Hall , of the British Museum , who , with his accustomed skill , disengaged greater part of the cranium from the matrix , and has thus brought to light one 4 most perfect skulls yet found in the Elgin Sandstone .
Few , even among those \gt ; rienced in developing fossils , can appreciate the difficulties overcome by Mr. Hall ,3 delicate task of clearing away the hard sandstone from the decayed and friable i without destroying the specimen itself .
this reptile was to have been described by Mr. A. Smith Woodward , of the [ sh Museum , who , when exhibiting it at a Soiree of the Royal Society , remarked ts possible affinities with the Triassic Aetosaurus of Dr. Fraas ( 56 ) ; but a flora of work in other directions prevented his accomplishing this task , and i ng that I was engaged upon some fresh material from the same locality , he most rously gave me the opportunity of describing this new and interesting specimen .
3 with much pleasure that I acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Smith odward for his disinterested courtesy .
lie specimen is now contained in two slabs of sandstone , each broken across , and jral smaller pieces , all portions of one block which , on being split open , revealed parts above mentioned .
When the animal was buried in the sand the head was sed over on the dorsal region , with the nose turned backwards ( Plate 54 ) .
The is of the skeleton preserved being so nearly in their natural relations to each r , it is almost certain that the cervical vertebrae and fore limbs were also in b , but no trace of them is seen , and as the stone has been broken across just at .front of the thorax , there is but little doubt that these parts were contained in a :e of stone which has not been preserved .
he palate was still covered by matrix when the specimen came into my hands , but desirability of knowing the structure of this region led me to undertake the urdous task of uncovering it , and this has now been safely accomplished ; a small t , however , still remains covered by the symphysis of the lower jaw , but to expose $ would mean the destruction of the symphysis with several of the teeth .
Some ter parts of the skeleton have likewise been further cleared of matrix .
Most the pre-caudal vertebrse and limb bones were so broken by the original splitting m of the stone that only fragments of the bone remained , and it was necessary to hr out these fragments and take casts from the cavities in order to ascertain the giual forms of the bones .
It is these casts , therefore , which , for the most part , l\gt ; e supplied the material for the following descriptions , but the account of the skull taken .
Irom the specimen itself , the bone being well preserved .
Description .
Skull.__The general aspect of the skull , when seen from above ( Plate 55 , fig.\#171 ; very bird-like , being broad at the back and pointed and beak-like in front .
|j i side view ( fig. l ) , however , the premaxillary region is seen to have a consideii)le vertical extent , and the nasal apertures are large and close to the front ; moreier , * the parietal region ( fig. 2 ) is narrow , and there are distinct and completely ench\gt ; , } supra-temporal fossae .
The greatest length of the skull , from the front to the qa , ] .
rate , is 115 millims. , the width across the quadrates 54 millims. The bone , altlrugh broken at the edges , is sufficiently well preserved to show the natural form , the* sutures are well shown in almost every instance , and consequently the elucidatiu of the structure is comparatively easy , although the arrangement of some of the pan is peculiar .
The upper surface ( fig. 2 ) has the bones in distinct pairs from front to backind the various bones are at once recognizable .
The small backward processes olth* premaxillse are wedged in between the front points of the nasal bones , and the join the frontals by a transverse suture well in front of the orbits .
The parietals )rm an obtuse angle anteriorly , which is received between the hinder ends of the fiords , A median suture extends throughout the length of the upper surface of the si# There is no parietal foramen .
On each side , extending outwards from the hid\#174 ; part of each parietal , is a band of bone , the upper edge of which forms the bouton between the upper and hinder surfaces of the skull ; it also forms the posterior al of the supra-temporal fossae , and joins the squamosal on each side at the hmdeian outer angle .
This band is evidently formed by the parietals , no suture being viifc^ and it overlaps on each side a post-temporal fossa .
The outer boundary of the sum temporal fossa is doubtless formed by the squamosal , which joins the parietal posteriorly , and extends downwards on the outer side of the skull ( fig. 1 ) , ^ ^ suture can be traced between this bone and that , evidently the postfrontal , w forms the hinder angle of the orbit , and is internally united to both the frontaan the parietal .
The anterior angle of the orbit is also formed by a distinct bo|\amp ; i prefrontal .
At first sight this bone seems to extend forwards on the outer large nasal bone ( fig. 2 ) , but there is a suture near the anterior extremity* frontal bone cutting off this anterior part , which in a side view ( fig. 1 ) is seen to* forward extension of the lachrymal bone above the great pre-lachrymal fossa , f A side view of the skull is rendered striking by the large size of the pre-lac^rm fossa , by the peculiar form of the infra-temporal fossa , and by the formidable predatf* teeth .
The orbit is large and narrow interiorly , reminding one of the Scaphognathus .
The large nasal apertures are near the front , and each *s by its nasal bone and premaxilla ; the junction of the latter with the maxr probably hidden by the large tooth projecting upwards from the lower jaw .
largest teeth are.evidently planted in the maxilla , which is seen to extend backwMR E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
589 as the orbit , and to bear teeth nearly to its binder extremity .
The maxilla is tided from the orbit by the jugal , which itself sends upwards two slender processes , before the other behind , the orbit , and thus forms its lower boundary .
The \gt ; rior process extends upwards in front of a slender bone occupying the position of chrymal , which forms the front wall of the orbit , and is continuous with that seen pe the pre-lachrymal fossa and on the outer side of the nasal bone ( fig. 2 ) .
The , erior upward process of the jugal unites in a similar manner with the bone ling the hinder boundary of the orbit , which can only be interpreted as a postal- unless it be a long process of the postfrontal , by which its upper end is .laid .
The quadrato-jugal , which underlies the hinder process of the jugal , is one the stoutest bones of the side of the skull ; it forms the outer angle of the pedicle the lower jaw , and , extending upwards on the outer side of the quadrate , joins squamosal .
The quadrato-jugal thus shuts off the quadrate from the side wall of skull .
The squamosal is T-shaped in this view , and seems to overlap the upper of the quadrato-jugal ; but there is a V-shaped suture a little above this , which r indicate a distinct bone .
When viewed from behind , the quadrate is seen to i about half the width of the pedicle , being overlaid by the quadrato-jugal ; the er , however , is narrowed at its lower end , so that the articulation for the lower jaw \gt ; rmed entirely by the quadrate , which , a little above its middle , is pierced by a large imen .
Extending upwards , the quadrate reaches the point where the parietal its the squamosal , and expanding at its upper part seems to be in contact with inner side of the downward process of the squamosal ; but this part is somewhat den by the matrix .
From the lower and front part of the quadrate a oroad cess passes forwards to join the pterygoid ( fig. 3 ) .
The latter bone will be alluded again , when describing the palate .
The Occiput ( fig. 2 ) is much broken , but something of its structure may be seen , e upper part , as already noticed , is formed by the parietals , and immediately Low this , in the middle line , is a four-sided plate occupying the position of a supra-sipital ; but , from its lower part , on the left side , a process passes off to the point of b squamosal , and as there can be no question as to this corresponding with the ex-eipital process of the crocodile , it is probable that much of the four-sided plate is -med by the exoccipitals meeting above the foramen magnum ; and it may be that e supraoccipital is represented by the small triangular area at the upper part , though the line of separation looks more like a breakage than a suture .
On the left de , between the exoccipital process and the parietal band , there is a distinct post-imporal fossa .
On the right side part of the exoccipital bar is broken away , wealing a more deeply-seated bone , probably the opisthotic .
There are traces of one in the position which would be occupied by the basioccipital , but its form is by 0 means clearly defined , and its rounded end may not represent an articular condyl'e .
The Palate ( fig. 3 ) being partly covered by the lower jaw , could not be wholly displayed , and about an inch of it still remains hidden by the symphysis .
It is also unfortunate that very little of the sutures can be made out .
The quadrate bt sends forwards and inwards a large bar , which joins what is clearly a backwj process of the pterygoid ; anteriorly this process is united with a broad plate of bfa that , with its fellow of the opposite side , extends backwards in the middle line to ja the base of the skull , and spreads outwards in a broad wing ; these parts are , with* doubt , the pterygoid , which closely resembles that bone in the crocodile .
From e anterior and outer part of this wing , and seemingly separated from it by a sutum small bone passes to the point of union of the maxilla and jugal bones , and the spreads out into a T-shape ; this must be the transverse bone ; and the aperture % in front of it is evidently the post-palatine vacuity .
How far the pterygoid extelg forwards , and how much of this broad plate is formed by the palatine , is uneertn , Close to the middle line , and between the post-palatine vacuities , is a pair of eii-gated apertures , the interpretation of which is not so satisfactory as could be wisld .
These apertures are regarded as the primitive posterior nares thrown far back , it they may be secondary nares , brought back to this position by the meeting of pal\amp ; ll laminae of the palatine bones ; or they may possibly be merely inter-pterygoid vacuity S such as are present in Dicynodonts .
The front of the palate being hidden byied lower jaw , it is not certain but that the posterior nares are further forwards , aan i lizards and in the form above named Erjpetosuchus Granti .
The palate is divided throughout its length , so far as exposed , by a median sutue , I and the bones of the left side are pressed downwards a little , making the division vi distinct .
This suture runs along the bar of bone which divides the posterior nais .
That the hinder median part of the broad plate which joins the base of the skull , id that passing back to the quadrate , as well as that united to the transverse bone , re all three parts of the pterygoid there can be little question ; but we are left in deot as to how far this bone extends forwards .
If the line seen on the right side ( on m left , fig. 3 ) , passing between the front parts of the post-palatine vacuity and post :)r narial opening , is really a suture , then in all probability it marks the anterior boundry of the palatine bone , as in Phytosaurus ( 66 , Plates 38 , 42 ) .
These median apertuss seem most nearly to agree with the pair seen in the genus just named , which e referred to by Professor Huxley as the posterior nares ( 18 , Plate 9 , fig. 6 ) , althoit in that form they are in advance of the post-palatine vacuities , as they are in 11 lizards .
Among reptiles it is only in the crocodiles , where the secondary postesr nares are formed by the meeting the palatines , that they are thrown as far backs they are in the present fossil , and occupy a more posterior position than the pci-palatine vacuities ; but , excepting this backward position , there are no indicates that these apertures , in the present specimen , are anything but primitive postern nares ; it is only their relative position which raises any doubt , and this to see extent finds a counterpart among birds .
The longitudinal double bar of bee separating these two apertures may be formed by the palatines or by the pterygoid but more probably by the vomers .
In front of these apertures this median bar ct- MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
591 1 g as a narrow double rod , separated from the broad plates on each side , which \#166 ; ]most certainly parts of the maxillae ; and if it were quite certain that this ration were natural and not due to breakage , this pair of median elongated bones 1 scarcely be regarded otherwise than as vomers ; and it would also be pretty demonstrated that the pair of apertures were the primitive posterior nares , an pretation which is here adopted as most probably the correct one .
ie Lower Jaw having been broken through longitudinally , and the upper margin r hidden by the maxillae , its form cannot be properly seen , but the accompanying e has been restored from the parts remaining and by carefhl measurements , so it represents as nearly as possible the true form ( fig. 1 ) .
The greatest length is b 110 millims. It extends some 7or 8 millims. behind the quadrate articulation , does not reach the front of the muzzle by perhaps 12 millims. At about 25 ms .
in front of the hinder extremity there is a large lateral vacuity 33 millims. extending a little in advance of the orbit .
The anterior half of the ramus is \gt ; aratively deep , but when seen from below ( fig. 3 ) the hinder part of the fiiysial region is found to be very narrow , the alveolar margin of this and all the er parts of the jaw being received within the teeth of the upper jaw .
Anteriorly rami are enlarged to carry the prominent teeth , which bite outside the upper jaw le hinder part of the compressed premaxillary region , and below the posterior end le nasal orifices .
At the front each ramus carries one or more smaller teeth , which received into the deep palate on the inner sides of the premaxillary teeth .
The olar margin being hidden , the number of these teeth is not known .
The hinder half :ach ramus is stouter than the front part , and widens to form the articular surface the quadrate .
No sutures can be certainly traced .
dentition.\#151 ; The teeth , although partly broken and hidden by matrix , supply much rmation as to their form and arrangement ( figs. 1 , 3 ) .
They vary in size , but otherwise similar in form , the largest being about 22 millims. in length .
Each tli is set in a distinct socket , and the larger ones have quite half their length k in the jaw ; but while the front ones seem to have been firmly fixed , the der ones appear to have been comparatively loose , some of the hinder maxillary th being more or less out of their sockets .
Several of the teeth are still in place , shown in the figures , and others have been broken across , showing spindle-tped transverse sections .
All the teeth , so far as can be seen , are recurved , nted , and compressed , with acute anterior and posterior edges .
Some of the ger teeth show the hinder edge of the crown to be serrated throughout its igth , and the front edge for about half its length .
The basal parts oi the teeth are under than the crowns and are not serrated .
There appear to have been three moderate-sized teeth in each premaxilla , projecting \gt ; out 3 or 4 millims. beyond the alveoli ; but there may have been others which are noW ddenby the lower jaw , from which at this part a large tooth projects upwards outside 16 premaxilla .
At the front of the maxilla there is a small tooth directed much 592 MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
i outwards , and following this on each side two large sabre-like teeth , passing do{i wards and backwards , with only just room between the teeth of the two maxill^ receive the narrow symphysis of the lower jaw .
Much of the crowns of these ttt is broken away from the skull , but those of the left side are preserved in ^ opposite block of stone , and are shown restored in the figure .
The roots of t'\#171 ; Se S two teeth are exposed by the breaking away of the outer lamina of the majlf * ( fig. 1 ) ; the hinder one is the largest , its entire length being 22 millims. , the crvi-projecting about 10 millims. from the alveolus ( fig. 1a ) .
The longest diameter atte base of the crown is 4 millims. Behind this largest tooth on the left side , sh or \gt ; f eight alveoli may be seen , some containing broken teeth , and on the right side \amp ; ne * of the teeth are present , but partly fallen from their sockets .
The teeth decreasin b size towards the back of the maxilla , and none of them was so large as the wo 1 preserved and figured .
At the front of the lower jaw there is evidence of two , perhaps three , forwafb \ directed teeth on each side , about equal in size to those of the premaxillae , whin i which they bite , and they extend forwards to about the second premaxillary tofeb .
jj At the thickened part of each ramus there is the large tooth , which bites outsiddiy 1 premaxilla .
One of these two teeth being further forwards than the other , it sons 1 probable that there were alveoli for two of these large teeth in each ramus put t possibly the four teeth were not in place at the same time .
Behind the large teth 1 there are traces of others , but nothing definite , the alveolar border being hidden .
Vertebral Column.\#151 ; The cervical vertebrae are wanting ; but thirteen pre-sarai , three sacral , and twenty-one caudal vertebrae are well preserved in an almost unbrcen series , and supply all the important vertebral characters of these regions .
The cetra throughout are completely ossified , and the terminal faces of the centra are my slightly concave .
The pre-sacral vertebrae had been broken through in two or three directions , ar , so much of the bone had crumbled away that the small portions remaining ere unintelligible , but , by clearing away the fragments and developing certain prte hidden by the matrix , it was possible tQ take casts which reproduce the greater art of both sides of the series , and the right side being the most perfect , is fig ed ( Plate 56 , fig. 1 ) .
The centra are all as nearly as possible 11 millims. long , and 7 millims. high ; are pinched in at the middle , but expanded at their articular faces , the edges of vdcn are somewhat thickened ; interiorly they all appear to be longitudinally keeled , b position of the neuro-central suture is shown in the first and fourth vertebrae fronJa sacrum , by the arches being raised from the centra , and in the thirteenth its pla is marked by a depression .
Throughout this series of pre-sacral vertebrae the*i articulations are both above the neuro-central suture .
The neural spines of this re 011 increase in antero-posterior extent from before backwards , the largest seen h\#169 ; g about equal to the length of a centrum , 11 millims. ; they are as nearly as possible mb .
E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
593 \gt ; height throughout , 10 millims. , and each vertebra , with its centrum and spine , a total height of 24 millims. The pre- and post-zygapophyses are well shown , transverse processes cannot all be seen , but by laying open some of them which near the longitudinal break , we now know the form of the rib articulations srtebrse Nos. 3 , 5 , 8 , 11 , and 13 .
All the costal articulations being above leuro-central suture , these vertebrae agree , in this respect , with the corresponding jbrse of living crocodiles ; but they differ inasmuch as some of the anterior ones distinct capitular and tubercular processes , while in crocodiles the corresponding een presacral vertebrae have each a single long transverse process which carries the costal articulations .
The most anterior vertebra , in the present specimen , the tubercular process nearly as long as the neural spine ( 8 millims. ) , it is ; ted upwards and perhaps a little forwards , and its anterior and posterior edges thin and continuous with the pre- and post-zygapophyses ; below and in front of seen the short capitular articulation quite at the front of the neural arch , ing backwards , No. 11 vertebra has the tubercular process shorter ( 6 millims. ) directed outwards and a little backwards ; the capitular articulation is still net .
In No. 8 vertebra the two articular processes have united at their bases , and tubercular process is shorter ; both articular surfaces may be said to be on the b transverse process .
No. 5 vertebra shows this character carried still further , and transverse process is a little lower on the neural arch ; but there are still two mar surfaces .
In No. 3 vertebra the transverse process is as long as in No. 5 , but ower from before backwards , and , although the end still seems to be bifid , the articulations are close together , if they do not join .
%e Sacrum is composed of three vertebrse , the two hindermost of these are in r natural position , and seem to have been firmly united ; but the third has been tied out of its place and somewhat broken .
Casts of the cavities from which the ; ments of bone had been cleared away reproduce the forms of these vertebrae and ir ribs ( Plate 55 , figs. 4 , 5 , 6 ) .
The centra of the two united vertebrae have a il length of 23 millims. , they are flattened inferiorily , and the terminal faces are .
The neural spines are about 10 millims. above the pre-zygapophyses and , with centra , stand about 25 millims. high .
The middle spine of the sacrum is the adest , having an antero-posterior extent of 13 millims. The sacral ribs are strong idrate processes , very similar to those of a crocodile , they are directed outwards 1 a little downwards , with expanded extremities , the hinder one being the largest 1 having its wide outer end oblique to the longitudinal axis of the vertebrae ? .
4 ) .
This large rib , it is tolerably evident , was attached to the posterior tremity of the ilium , which is but little out of place .
The anterior sacral vertebra has been troublesome to interpret , as it is not only Lshed out of place but is partly broken , and the centrum is not shown .
At first it uncertain whether this was part of the sacrum ; and the fact that the centrum as fixed to the other two , as they were to each other , seemed to militate against MDCCCXCIV.\#151 ; -B .
4 G this interpretation , but a close examination has convinced me that it is correct , the pre-sacral vertebrae , as we have seen , the transverse processes become smaller we pass backwards , and are very small in the vertebra immediately in front of the oj now in question , which retains , on the right side , a long and strong process ( rib ) with an expanded end , quite as long as that of the vertebra next behind although not so stout ( Plate 55 , fig. 4 , sa .
1 ) .
The corresponding process of the li side has been separated from the vertebra , and is seen in the stone just above V ribs of the two hinder sacral vertebrae .
The rib of this anterior sacral vertebra mi ; have been in close relation to the broad anterior part of the ilium ( see fig. 5 ) , whii would otherwise have been without support .
Caudal Vertebral ( Plate 54 ) to the number of twenty-one are preserved in a continue* series , and much of the bone is present , although in a very friable condition .
% centra of the more anterior of the caudal vertebrae are very little shorter than thoset the sacrum , being , as nearly as possible , equal to those of the thorax ( 11 millims. ) , ail they decrease so little in length in the hinder part of the tail that the twentieth !
the series measures 10 millims. The height of the centra , however , decreases me \#187 ; rapidly , for while the first caudal centrum is about 9 millims. high the twentieths only 5 millims. In form also these centra resemble those of the thorax , but te inferior part is rounded and not keeled , and their articular faces are oblique to ie long axes .
Neural spines are exposed at both ends of the series , and also in te middle , the front one being about the same height and width as those of the saern ( 11 millims. ) ; but while they gradually decrease in width they rapidly increases length to the fifth , which stands 16 millims. above the zygapophyses , and with te centrum has a total height of 30 millims. Passing backwards from this point , te spines gradually shorten , the eleventh being 13 millims. and , with the cMw ; ; 26 millims. high , while the twentieth spine is 8 millims. and , with the centra , 15 millims. high .
The chevron bones are long and slender , and about sixteen of them are exposed ; w anterior one is not less than 40 millims. long , and its proximal end is near the junefen of the first and second caudal centra , but it may be somewhat out of place , for itJ the third caudal centrum which first shows a distinct articular surface for a bone , and this is at its hinder end .
The transverse process of the first caudal proje * about 10 millims. from the centrum , it is flattened and has an antero-posterior of about 5 millims. at the base , but expands to 7 or 8 millims. , and is roj\#163 ; distally .
The transverse processes of the next three vertebrae are somewhat lonf and the width is maintained if not exceeded ; beyond this they become narrow , and apparently shorter towards the end of the tail , but they are not clearly iHP* ' All the transverse processes , so far as they can be traced , have a ridge on the surface from base to apex , and a corresponding groove on the upper surface .
a first caudal vertebra these processes arise from the lower part of the neura are \#174 ; P from the centrum , and project directly outwards ; but m the succeeding ve*T MR E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
595 r ascend the arch , so that on the sixth vertebra they are nearly on a level with base of the neural spine .
From this point backwards they remain practically lis position , but are directed more and more upwards .
lose under the transverse process of the anterior caudal vertebra there is a [ net tubercle on the side of the centrum , and a similar tubercle may be seen on two or three succeeding vertebrae , but gradually getting lower down on the irum .
These tubercles are distinct on the left side , but less so on the right .
%e Ribs are represented by a few slender bones seen below the thoracic vertebrae , te 56 , fig. 1 ) , but they are too imperfect to supply any satisfactory information ; B to the anterior vertebrae of this region , however , there are some fragments , one of ch is clearly the proximal part of a rib with a distinct double head , such as would e articulated with the distinct capitular and tubercular processes of the thirteenth ; ebra above described .
a front of the pubis and close to the edge of the block of stone ( Plate 54 ) are a iber of still more slender bones , which , from the manner of their meeting to form acute angle , directed forwards , it is evident are abdominal ribs , but these also too indefinite to allow very much of their structure or arrangement to be distinshed . . . ?
elvis._The fragments which represented the bones of the pelvis and hind limbs .e found to be insufficient to give any just idea of their form , and it was deemed t to clear them away and make casts from the cavities , as in other instances .
The fit has fully justified the attempt , the casts having reproduced the forms of the ies of the greater part of the pelvis , as well as those of the hind limb and foot , in ater detail than could have been anticipated .
the ilium ( Plate 56 , fig. 3 ) of the left side is shown , but it is thrown somewhat out its natural relation to the other pelvic bones ; and , as it is the ischium and pubis ot 5 right side ( Plate 56 , fig. 4 ) which are best exposed , the precise mode of union the three elements is not clear .
The ilium is small compared with the othei two nes ; its greatest length being 46 millims. , while that of the ischium is 52 millims. , d that of the pubis 70 millims. The ilium extends for about half its length behind e acetabulum , and is at this extremity acutely pointed ; anteriorly it is obtusely igulated , slightly inflected above , and extends but little in front of the articular cup .
the concave outer surface is definitely marked off from the acetabulum , which is a eep excavation bounded internally by bone ; but it is not certain whether it was impletely closed or perforated .
Both before and behind the acetabulum theie is a iort process , the ends of which were apparently articulated to the ischium and ubis ; and it seems almost certain that both these bones combined with the ilium to am the acetabular cup .
The ischia are both preserved ; the inner side of the left one is seen in close elation with the left ilium ( fig. 4 ) , but it is partly hidden by the corresponding bone \gt ; f the right side , which is the one best preserved , and shows the external surface ; its greatest length is 52 millims. The proximal end of the ischium is wide ( 22 millim its upper part being thickened to form an articular surface for the ilium and parl the articular cup , while the lower part is thin , forming a broad plate which Oj with a similar plate of the pubis .
At about 18 millims. from the proximal endth is a distinct obturator process , behind which the bone is reduced to about 8 millis in width and not more than 3 millims. in thickness .
The narrowest part of the he ( 6 millims. ) is at about the middle of its length .
Posteriorly the bone curves inwals and upwards , and widening again to about 8 or 9 millims. , terminates by a roun^ spatulate extremity .
The pubis ( fig. 4 ) is 67 millims. long , it is broad proximally like the ischium , \lt ; p has a similar width , with the upper part thickened for articulation with the ilium , the lower part thin where it unites with the ischium .
The upper thickened pariR proximally about 14 millims. wide ; but this is rapidly reduced , its distal half beig only about 3 or 4 millims. thick as seen from the side .
The inner parts of both puss have been broken away by the splitting of the block of stone , but it seems probde that the distal half of each of them was flattened from above downwards .
A distbt ridge separates the proximal thickened part from the thin plate below ; this ridge , at fit directed downwards , gradually turns outwards , and becomes the external edge of ae distal half of the bone .
The thin lower plate of this bone has a peculiar for .
; proximally where it evidently joined the corresponding plate of the ischiumit is directed downwards and a little inwards ; passing forwards it widens , projets more inwards , and gets more towards the inner side of the thicker and upper parof the bone ; this change continuing , the thin plate forms a scroll , which , at a distaee of about 20 millims. from the proximal end , comes to be altogether on the inner sle of the pubis , and seems to have been continued into a spatulate distal terminati i. In other words , as we trace the distal transversely flattened part of the puis proximally , its inner part gradually turns downwards , so that its inner margin becoKs the lower edge , where this plate joins the ischium .
To what extent the inner ecbs of the pubes met in the middle line cannot be ascertained .
Hind I/ imb.\#151 ; Parts of both hind limbs are preserved ( Plate 56 , fig. 2 ) , and its evident that the skeleton , even to the small bones of the toes , was still connec 'd by ligaments when it was buried in the Elgin sand .
The lower part of the rigt tibia and fibula , together with the right foot , are wanting , having been destroyed n the process of splitting open the block of stone .
Casts from the cavities in the stoe have been prepared which reproduce all the parts of the limb now to be describe But it should be noticed that although the cast which has been figured ( fig. 2 ) sho\#171 ; nearly all the bones described , the continuations of some of them , as well as a bones not shown by this cast , are present on the opposing block of stone , and all are represented in their proper position in this figure , by unshaded outlines .
The femur of the left side shows the form of the proximal end , and the full lepg11 of the bone ; that of the right side has the distal half exposed .
In general form th HR .
E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
597 , closely resembles that of the Alligator M which I have for com-)n .
it is , however , more slender , the trochanter is not so well marked , and the ial roughened protuberance is more prominent than in the alligator .
The est length is 87 millims. , the width of both extremities is the same , 16 millims. ie under surface of the fibular condyle ( fig. 5 ) there is a small prominence , which be altogether accidental , but , seeing that it occupies the position of the crest in birds and Dinosaurs , which articulates between the tibia and fibula , it deserves noticed , as it may prove to be of morphological importance .
e tibia and fibula of the right side are only represented by pieces of their mal ends , which are seen close to the right femur .
The left tibia and fibula are )resent , but they want their proximal ends .
Although neither of these bones are let , yet it is clear that they were but little , if at all , shorter than the femur , ends of these two bones are enlarged , much as they are in the alligator , but are too imperfect to speak about very definitely .
e tarsus is represented by two bones , one of which is in contact with the distal rf the bone referred to as the left tibia , and is , doubtless , the astragalus ; rees better with the astragalus of a crocodile or lizard than with that of any saur .
The second tarsal bone is merely a small ossicle which may have belonged e distal row .
te hind foot of the left side is preserved in a most unexpected manner ; but that e right side , as well as the greater part of the right tibia and fibula , is wanting , :he position and direction of the pieces of the latter which are preserved make ry unlikely that any of the right foot-bones are mixed with those of the left ; further , the position and relations of the phalanges of each of the left toes show istakably that they belonged to one digit , and for the most part look as if they still united by their decaying ligaments .
There are five metatarsals , and these numbered in the figure ( Plate 56 , fig. 2 ) , in accordance with their gradually easing stoutness , but partly also on account of the number of phalanges in ion with them .
Thus it will be seen that number 1 is the stoutest metatarsal , number 5 the most slender .
The second , third , and fourth metatarsals , however , longer than the first or fifth .
Metatarsal 1 has close to it two stout phalanges , a 2 ) , the terminal one being ungual .
Metatarsal 2 has three phalanges ( , b 3 ) close to its distal end , the last being ungual .
Metatarsal 3 has no langes quite close to it , but it is evident from their size that the four rather ller ones ( c 1 , c2 , c 3 , c4 ) , which are close together , curled in a ring , belong to third digit , the terminal phalanx of which was ungulate .
Metatarsal 4 has near extremity one phalange ( d 1 ) , while a little below this there are three small ones d 3 , d 4 ) in a series , and on the opposite block of stone , but continuing the ies\gt ; is another very small one ( d 5 ) , making in all five phalanges to this fourth In the cast figured metatarsal 5 has no phalanges near it , but , on the posite block of stone , its counterpart is shown with two phalanges ( e 1 , e 2 ) , in a line with it , but somewhat separated , and these are indicated in the figur^ , unshaded outlines .
The second phalange of this fifth digit has an articular smcJ at its distal extremity , and consequently there must have been at least one c , phalange .
This foot , it will be seen , agrees with that of modern lizard s having five digits , and also in the number of phalanges in the first four d % and probably in the fifth also ; namely , in the first 2 phalanges , in the second the third 4 , in the fourth 5 , and in the fifth certainly 3 , and very like } a phalanges .
Scutes.\#151 ; Upwards of forty scattered scutes may be counted above the verted between the two extremities of this specimen .
The majority of these are motor less oval in outline , and several show signs of having been keeled .
No delate markings can be seen on those of the caudal region , but two or three in he neighbourhood of the thorax and skull are ornamented with more or less dis jot tubercles and radiating ridges ( Plate 55 , fig. 7 ) .
The oval outline of most of he scutes shows that they were not in close relation , but somewhat separated from teh other ; several , however , have one side straighter than the other , and this av indicate an arrangement in pairs although not united .
In the front dorsal reioad there are several scutes having a more quadrate outline , and these may have bn\#171 ; closer together ; but there is no evidence of overlapping or of their having definitely in contact with each other .
Affinities .
The pointed and beak-like extremity of the skull of this Elgin reptile , espeeillv when seen from above , as well as the large pre-lachrymal fossas gives it a very bird ke appearance ; but the similarity is only superficial , the details of its structure bmg more reptilian that avian .
This skull has some resemblance to that of ; he Pterosaurian , Scaphognathus ; both having a large pre-lachrymal fossa , and a siniiliy disposed jugal bone ; the supra- and infra-temporal fossae are likewise present in tit , and the teeth are not very dissimilar ; but in the form of the palate and other detib the two differ widely , and still greater differences characterize other parts of he skeleton .
This Elgin fossil before it was fully freed from the matrix was referred to by h Smith Woodward as a new genus of Aetosaurian reptile , and the similarity , in m\v respects , between the two forms is obvious ; but now that its structure is more dedy seen , important points of difference are observable , the significance of which willh best appreciated after a closer comparison .
If the figures of Aetosaurus , given by9*-Oscar Fra as ( 56 ) , be compared with ours ( Plate 55 , fig. 2 ) the two skulls will be pM to agree in having paired frontals and parietals , as well as in the absence of a pana foramen .
In both also there are double and large anterior nasal openings , befcw\#174 ; 0 which and the orbits are the large pre-lachrymal fossae .
The palate of Aetosaufft*^ MR E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
599 red or described , which is the more to be regretted as it is an important point ' structure of these early forms of reptiles .
Dr. Fraas however says ( 56 , p. 13 ) 0 Knocheri , Zwischenkiefer , Nasenbein und Oberkiefer , umschliessen die vordere Hohle , Nasenhohle , welche nach unten offen zugleich das gross Foramen incisiurn \#187 ; and'this apparently indicates an anterior position for the primitive posterior , as in lizards .
\osaurus differs from the present specimen in having broad parietals instead of v ones , with the supra-temporal fossae pushed outwards quite to the sides of the Moreover the parietals do not , by a lateral process , bound the supra-tempoial posteriorly .
In the Elgin skull there is a distinct and peculiar infra-temporal but nothing of the kind is shown in the restored figure of ( 56 , ) .
If this restoration is correct , the absence of an infra-temporal fossa is a very ctive feature ; but both the skulls figured by Dr. Fraas on plates 2 and 3 seem ow a part of such a fossa , and if this be so , then the two forms will prove to be nearly related than they now appear to be , judging from the restored figure ; and \gt ; f the chief characters excluding Aetosaurus from the Parasuchia will vanish , teeth of Aetosaurus are uniform in size , with the crowns enlarged , somewhat as igonolepis ; in our specimen the teeth vary much in size and their crowns are not ged .
e vertebrae of Aetosaurus are said to be concave anteriorly and convex posteriorly , \gt ; my a few of them are seen , and those figured do not clearly show this procoelous tcter .
The pelvic bones are not alike in the two forms , which differ also e number of the phalanges in each digit of the foot , so far as these can be made Although the ornamentation of the scutes in the two animals is very similai , their arrangement differs widely , for while Aetosaurus has the body completely 3ed in its closely locked armour , there is only a double row of dorsal scutes in the 3nt specimen , and these are separated from each other , except perhaps in the b part of the body .
Aetosaurus should be found to agree with the present specimen in the ession of an infra-temporal fossa and bi-concave vertebrse , yet the other differences veen the two forms would suffice to separate them at least generically ; but isaurus could hardly then be excluded from the Parasuchia .
he only forms from the British Trias , excepting the Parasuchia , which will be srred to later on , that need be noticed are the compressed and serrated teeth srred to Teratosaurus ( = Zanclodori ) , Cla , and Palaosaurus ( 60 , 67 ) , 1 even if the resemblance between these and the teeth of our specimen were ater than it is , one would scarcely be justified in referring the latter to any one of .se genera , which have been founded upon teeth only , and all represent animals much greater size .
Zanclodon , besides being much larger , has both edges of the \gt ; th-crown serrated throughout , while the teeth of the other two genera although reeing with those of the Elgin fossil in the restriction of the serration on the anterior edge to its distal half , differ , the one in being much larger , and the other having a much rounder section .
However , the similarity between these ter suggests the possibility of the Elgin fossil belonging to the same group of repti and certainly it presents many points of resemblance to some of the Theropod ' Dinosauria .
The skull of Megalosaurus , if it has been correctly restored , and tha-f the American Ceratosaurus , notwithstanding their much greater size , seem to constructed upon the same plan .
( Compare Plate 55 , fig. with Marsh , * Am .
Joij Sci. , ' 1884 , vol. 27 , Plate 8 , fig. 1 .
) There are similar supra-temporal fossae and e four lateral apertures , with the bones arranged on the same plan ; the teeth e compressed and serrated , they also vary much in size , and the quadrate is similgy directed obliquely backwards .
The palate of Ceratosaurus is not figured by Profesf Marsh , and the description does not give the position of the posterior nares .
0 % parts of the skeleton of Ceratosaurus are less like the Elgin specimen than are thse found in the much smaller Dinosaur Anchisaurmore recently made known from ; e Trias of Connecticut ( 64 ) , the skull of which is only slightly larger than that of ir specimen , but although constructed upon essentially the same plan as that of Cti-tosaurus , is less like the Elgin form inasmuch as the quadrate is set obliquely dov t wards and forwards , while the teeth are uniform in size , and of a different sks .
| The pelvis of the Elgin specimen makes , perhaps , a nearer approach to thabf Anchisaurus than to that of any other Dinosaur ; but the ilium , having but life pre-acetabular extension , retains more of the crocodilian character ; while the ischim and pubis , in their large proportionate size , resemble those of Anchisaurus .
k femur of the Elgin specimen , as we have seen , is crocodilian in form , and is not Ilf the size proportionately of that of Anchisaurus .
The astragalus of the latter geis is described as attached to the tibia in true Dinosaurian fashion , while in ir specimen it is a separate bone and more like that of a crocodile or lizard .
The general resemblance which the skeleton of the little ( 79 ) bers to our specimen is very striking , especially as their position in the stone is so ale and its affinity to the Dinosaurs above noticed leads one to expect similarities\gt ; f structure .
A close comparison , however , does not indicate a nearer relationships our fossil than was found in Anchisaurus .
The skull of is broki but was probably formed on the same plan as that of our specimen ; the teeth slender and conical , not compressed and serrated .
The greater proportionate lenp ) which the tibia bears to the femur , and the hind limb bears to the rest of \gt ; e skeleton , is unlike our fossil ; and then again the astragalus is said to be firrr ) attached to the tibia .
If we turn to the Parasuchia , we find that the obvious characters of our spe-men prevent its reference to either of the known genera , namely , , Phytosaurus , Parasuchus , and the above described Erpetosuchus ; yet it pwp\#169 ; *8 many of the characters which distinguish that group of reptiles .
The skull has\#174 ; large pre-lachrymal vacuity and distinct supra- and infra-temporal fossae ; the piiriiiti MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
601 erior nares , if my interpretation of the palatal apertures be correct , are placed a little further back than they are in Phytosaurus ; the vertebral centra are itly amphicoelous ; the ilium is of crocodilian type , although not so high as in wnolepis , and projecting a little more forwards , while the ischium and pubis slongated bones approaching in form those of certain Dinosaurs .
The limb bones i to be of crocodilian type , and there is a row of dorsal scutes apparently in a )le series .
These characters , it will be seen , are essentially those laid down as acteristic of the Parasuchia by Professor Huxley , who , at the same time , ted out ( 18 , p. 41 ) how the " Parasuchia , in those respects in which they r from the Mesosuchia , approach the Ornitlioscelida and the Lacertilia " ( especially enodon ) .
The many points of resemblance between the Parasuchia and certain of forms usually included among the Dinosauria , have also been noticed by other ; ers ; and the difficulty of separating the two groups is increased by a study of this Elgin reptile , which holds , as I think , a more intermediate position between the series , than any form hitherto described , for although the characters of its skull teeth find their nearest counterpart among the Dinosaurs , and the pelvis and 3S might belong to either a Theropodous Dinosaur , or a Parasuchian ; the form the free astragalus is more Crocodilian than Dinosaurian .
While acknowledging difficulty of assigning this new reptile to either of these groups , it seems most tccordance with the facts to place it provisionally with the Dinosaurs .
Whatever doubt there may be as to the precise affinities of this most interesting the from the Elgin Sandstone , there will be none as to its being generically binct from any known form , and I propose therefore to name it Oruithosuchus wdwardi .
3 .
Note on some Fragmentary Specimens .
Besides the specimens above described , I have received four others , all obtained m the quarry at Spynie , which , although too imperfect to allow of precise deter-n at ion , should not be altogether passed over , more especially as the quarry , I am id , is now closed , and new specimens from this locality are not likely to be dis-vered for some time to come .
1 .
The first of these specimens was obtained by Dr. Gordon .
It is contained in ie two halves of a block of stone , which , when it reached me , weighed somewhat ore than half a ton .
Obliquely across the broken surfaces of this stone , for a istance of about twenty-four inches , a series of vertebra ?
could be traced , each about nee-quarters of an inch long , while lying across these were many slender bones , vidently abdominal ribs , together with a few other bones , apparently dorsal ribs Gr each end of this series , portions of bones could be seen on the sides ol the block , nd it was hoped that with patience the limbs and skull might be displayed , but hese hopes have not been realized .
The bones have been much crushed and partially Mdcccxciv , \#151 ; b , 4 B dissolved , while they are , for the most part , so nearly the same colour as the matri and so intimately incorporated with it , that their forms could not be deciphered .
4 one end , portions of the pelvis and of a femur may be seen ; and , at the other , the is part of a skull , but these are so fragmentary and indistinct that I have been qui unable to satisfy myself as to the relationship of this fossil .
2 .
The second specimen was secured by Mr. H. H. Howell of the Geologic Survey .
It is in several pieces , and comprises a few portions of vertebras with cent , less than three-quarters of an inch long , fragments of pelvic bones , and , extendi* outwards from these on each side , a femur which may have been six inch long .
A few slender bones are seen , which look like abdominal ribs .
This fosl may be part of a Stagonolepis , but there are no scutes to be seen .
3 .
The third specimen was likewise obtained by Mr. H. H. Howell .
It s part of a small reptile , the bones of which have been dissolved out ; it shos part of the vertebral column , traces of the pelvis , and a very perfect hind limb , bones of which were remarkably stout for their length .
The femur , tibia , astragal : , five metatarsals , and one or two phalanges are very nearly in their natural position , but the fibula is somewhat displaced .
The cavities left by the vertebrae are too mu broken to give a definite idea of their shape , but the deeply bi-con cave character f their centra is well seen .
Four vertebrae together measure 25 millims. The lengs of the other bones are : femur , 32 millims. ; tibia , 22 millims. ; metatarsals , 1 to , gradually increasing from 8 to 10 millims. This specimen must have been smalr than the Erpetosuchus Granti , from which it differs in having deeply bi-concae vertebrae ; moreover , its short and stout hind limb would scarcely accord with a Ioj and slender fore limb , such as that of Erpetosuchus Granti .
The specimen probaf represents a lizard of about the size of the living Sphenodon .
It is much larger ttu Telerpeton Elginense , but may , perhaps , belong to another species of that genus .
4 .
The fourth specimen , sent to me by Mr. Taylor , of Elgin , is interesting s having been found at Spynie only a short time before the closing of the quarry ; It it is in several disjointed pieces , and the bones are scattered , the most perfect pt being a row of neural spines , which agree in size with , and are not unlike those* Erpetosuchus Granti , but it would be very hazardous to refer these remains to tit genus .
MR. E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
be reference numbers follow on from those given in the earlier paper ( 68 ) , and any number than 50 mentioned in the present paper refers to the previous list .
Baur , Georg .
Der Tarsus der Vogel und Dinosaurier .
Morpholog .
Jahrb .
, vol. 8 , p. 417 , 1883 .
____ .
Phylogenetic Arrangement of the Sauropsida .
Journ. Morphology , vol. 1 , p. 93 , 1887 .
See also Biolog .
Centralblatt , vol. 7 , p. 481 , 1887 .
Cope , E. D. On Dinosauria .
Proc. Philad .
Ac .
Not .
Sci. , 1866 , pp. 275 and 316 .
____ , Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia , Beptilia , and Aves of North America .
Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. , N.S. , vol. 14 , 1871 .
____ , t On the Homologies of the Posterior Cranial Arches in the Beptilia .
Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. , vol. 17 , p. 11 , 1892 .
Fra as , Anton .
Aetosaurus ferrcttus , Fr. Die gepanzerte Vogel-Echse aus dem Stubensandstein bei Stuttgart .
4to .
Stuttgart , 1877 .
Hulke , J. W. Osteology of Hypsilophodon Foxii .
Phil. Trans. , vol. 173 , p. 1035 , 1883 .
Huxley , T. H. On the Upper Jaw of M Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 25 , p. 311 , 1869 .
---- .
Dinosauria and Birds .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 26 , p. 12 , 1870 .
---- .
Classification of the Dinosauria , with observations on the Dinosauria of the Trias .
Ibid. , vol. 26 , p. 32 , 1870 .
Jager , G. F. Ueber die fossile Beptilien welche in WUrtemberg aufgefunden worden sind .
4to .
Stuttgart , 1828 . .
Lydekker , B. Synopsis of the Fossil Vertebrata of India .
Bee .
Geol .
Surv .
Ind. , vol. 16 , p. 65 , 1883 . .
Marsh , O. C. Principal characters of American Jurassic Dinosaurs .
Part 8 .
Theropoda .
Am , Journ. Sci. , vol. 27 , p. 329 , 1884 , and earlier papers .
*--- .
Notes on Triassic Dinosaurs .
Ibid. , vol. 43 , p. 543 , 1892 , and vol. 45 , p. 169 , 1893 .
) .
Meyer , H. von .
Beptilien aus dem Stubensandstein des oberen Keupers .
Palseontographica , vol. 7 , p. 253 , 1861 , and vol. 14 , p. 99 , 1865 .
3 .
--- .
Der Schadel des Belodon aus dem Stubensandstein des oberen Keupers .
Ibid. , vol. 10 , p. 227 , 1863 .
7 .
Murchison , B. I. and H. E. Strickland .
On the Upper Formations of the New Bed Sandstone System , \amp ; c. Trans. Geol .
Soc. , ser. 2 , vol. 5 , p. 344 , Plate 28 , figs. 6 , 7 , 1837 .
68 .
Newton , E. T. On some new Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone .
Phil. Trar vol. 184 , B. , p. 431 , 1893 .
69 .
Owen , R. Report on British Fossil Reptiles .
Rep. Brit. Assoc. , 1841 , p , | 1842 .
70 .
----- .
Description of an Extinct Lacertian Reptile , Rhynchosaurus articeps , \amp ; Trans. Camb .
Phil. Soc. , vol. 7 , p. 355 , 1842 .
71 .
---- .
Fossil Reptiles of the Wealden and Purbeck .
Part 3 , Pal .
Soc. , 1856 .
72 .
----- .
Note on the Affinities of Rhynchosaurus .
Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. vol. 4 , p. 237 , 1859 .
73 .
----- .
Palaeontology .
8vo .
Edinburgh , edit .
2 , 1861 .
74 .
----- .
On the Skull of Megalosaurus .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. 39 , p. 3t 1883 .
75 .
Phillips , J. Megalosaurus Bucklandi .
Geology of Oxford , \amp ; c. 8vo .
Oxfcl , 1871 , p. 196 .
76 .
Pleininger , Th. Ueber ein neues Sauriergenus und die Einreihung der Samir mit ilachen , scbneidenden Zahnen in eine Family .
Wiirtt .
Jahreshe , , vol. 2 , pp. 148 and 248 , 1846 .
77 .
Riley , H. and S. Stutchbury .
A Description of various Fossil Remainst{ three distinct Saurian Animals , \amp ; c. Trans. Geol .
Soc. , ser. 2 , vol.i , p 349 , 1836 .
78 .
Seeley , H. G. Classification of the Dinosauria .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. p. 165 , 1887 , and numerous other papers .
79 .
Wagner , A. Never Beitrage sir Kenntniss der urweltlichen Fauna des lit:graphischen Schiefers .
Abh .
Kon .
Bayer .
Akad .
Wiss .
, vol. 9 , p. 1861-3 .
Munich .
Phil. Trans.1894B .
Pla53 .
Bppy ftu/ ton .
ErP ETO SUCH US Grant/ Cambr/ dge Engraving Co. NEWTON ON REPTILES PROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
IV .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES .
PLATE 53 .
ErpetosuchusGvctnti , g et nov .
the figures , except 7 and 8 , are natural size , and have been drawn from gutta- ' oasts'taken from the cavities in a block of Elgin Sandstone , in the possession I james Grant of Lossiemouth .
The exact locality of the specimen is ain . .
1 .
Skull and lower jaw seen from the right side .
The anterior part ot the right ramus being still hidden by the matrix , it has been completed by reversing the left side , fig. 4 .
2 .
Skull seen from above ; a portion of the left side restored in outline .
3 .
Skull seen from below .
4 .
Lower jaw , left ramus , articular end hidden in matrix .
5 .
Series of vertebrae and scutes immediately behind the skull , seen from left side .
6 .
Part of same series seen from right side .
7 " Vertebra No. 9 , enlarged and restored .
8 .
Four scutes enlarged .
9 .
Right scapula and coracoid seen from outside .
9a .
Same seen from inner side .
L0 .
Left humerus , under surface .
LOa .
Same bone , front view .
11 .
Left tibia and fibula seen from behind , with under surface of five metacarpals and some phalanges .
12 .
Right humerus , upper surface .
13 .
Right tibia and fibula seen from before , with upper surface of five metacarpals .
14 .
Interclavicle , upper surface .
PLATE 54 .
Ornithosuchus Woodwardi , gen .
et sp. nov .
na a ~ photograph about one-third natural size , by Messrs. Walker and Bout all , lecimen obtained by Dr. Gordon from the Elgin Sandstone ot ^py^1 e\gt ; red in the British Museum .
The under surface of the skull with the lower jaw se is seen on the left ; the dorsal and caudal vertebrae extend oblique y across ione ; below them are the pelvis and limb bones , and above then scattered scutes .
At the lower abdominal ribs are seen .
PLATE 55 .
Ornithosuchus Same specimen as Plate 54 .
All the figures except 1a are drawn natural size .
Fig. 1 .
Skull and lower jaw , right side .
Much of the front parts of the rights * being hidden in the specimen , it has been completed in the figure :^ j the left side , and the right ramus has been similarly restored^ j reference to both rami .
Fig. 1a .
The largest tooth , twice its natural size .
Fig. 2 .
Skull from above .
Fig. 3 .
Skull from below .
The following figures are drawn from gutta-percha casts .
Fig. 4 .
Vertebrae seen from right side\#151 ; 5 caudal , 3 sacral , and 1 pre-sacral .
he sacral ribs have been completed from the left side .
This pre-ssral vertebra is shown also in the series on Plate 56 , fig. 1 .
Fig. 5 .
Sacrum and left ilium seen from above .
Fig. 6 .
Sacrum seen from below .
Fig. 7 .
One of the largest and most perfect scutes .
PLATE 56 .
Ornithosuchus Woodwardi .
Same specimen as Plate 54 .
All the figures natural size , and drawn from gua ' percha casts .
Fig. 1 .
Series of pre-sacral vertebrae seen from the right side .
The vertebrae i\#171 ; each numbered from the sacrum forwards .
No. 1 vertebra is also sh'1* in the series on Plate 55 , in order that the relations of the two sees may be understood .
Fig. 2 .
Parts of pelvis and limb bones seen from the left side .
The lines completing several parts are supplied from the o stone .
The various bones are indicated by letters , the unshaded pposite slab d right and $ part of the slab and towards the left the MR E. T. NEWTON ON REPTILES FROM THE ELGIN SANDSTONE .
607 sides being marked respectively r and All the foot bones belong to the left side\#151 ; ast .
, astragalus ; .
, 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , metatarsals ; 1 , 2 , phalanges of first digit ; b , 1 , 2 , 3 , phalanges of second digit ; c , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , phalanges of third digit ; c ?
, 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , phalanges of fourth digit ; e , 1 , 2 , phalanges of fifth digit .
Left ilium , outer surface , nearly complete .
Eight pubis with right and left ischia seen from right side .
The lower edge of left acetabulum is also seen .
Eight femur , under surface of distal half .
Left femur , under surface of proximal half .
Lettering used in the Figures .
d , e. Phalanges of digits .
Angulare .
Articulare .
Astragalus .
Basioccipital .
Basisphenoid .
Dentary .
Exoccipital .
Femur .
Fibula .
Frontal .
Ilium .
Ischium .
Infra-temporal fossa . .
Jugal . .
Lachrymal .
orb .
Orbit .
p. Pubis .
pa. Parietal p.la .
Pre-lachrymal fossa .
pmx .
Premaxilla .
pr.fr .
Prefrontal .
p.sa .
Pre-sacral vertebra .
pt .
Pterygoid .
p.tem .
Post-temporal fossa .
pt.fr .
Post-frontal .
pt.na .
Posterior narial aperture .
pt.o .
Post-orbital .
pt.pl .
Post-palatine vacuity .
qu .
Quadrate . .
Left .
qu.ju .
Quadratojugal .
rt .
Eight .
s. a.Sacral vertebra . ! .
Metatarsal .
* .
Maxilla .
s.ang .
Surangular .
sq .
Squamosal .
i. Nasal bone .
t. Opisthotic .
i. Anterior narial aperture .
s.tem .
Supra-temporal fossa .
tib .
Tibia .
tr .
Transverse bone of palate .
t. Plate 55 , fig. 2 , tooth of lower jaw .
Newton .
Phil. Trans. 1894 .
B. Plate 54 .
ORNITHOSUCHUS WOODWARDI .
sp. noy .
fieu'tof1'- Phil. Trans.l^B.Plate 55 .
mx. Ornithosuchus Woodwet sP .
nov \#166 ; \#163 ; \amp ; \#163 ; l N. Cambridge Engraving Co. w Phil. Trans.1894B .
Pla56 .

