]\gt ; XXVI .
On the Fffects of on certain } of Silver , Lead , and Copper .
G. F. ODWELL , Science Master Marlborough College .
icated by Professor A. W. WILLIAMSON , For .
Sec. It .
S. Received November ll , \mdash ; Read December 8 , [ PLATE 96 .
] CONTENTS .
Pagc .
1 .
Introduction . . . . . .
2 .
Method of research and apparatus employed . . . . .
1126 3 .
Iodide of silver , . . . . . .
1133 4 .
Bromide of silver , . . . . .
5 .
Chloride of silver , . .
1138 6 .
Chlorobromiodides of silver , having the composition : , A ; AgBr , ; AgBr , ; AgBr , ; AgBr , . . . . .
1140 7 .
Di-iodide of mercury , . . .
1141 8 .
Iodide of lead , . . . .
1144 9 .
Lead-silver iodide , . . . .
1146 10 .
Iodide of copper , . .
1151 11 .
Copper-silver iodides , having the composition : ; ; . . . .
1154 12 .
Discussion of the results . . . .
1160 1 .
INTRODUCTION .
THE researches described in the following pages , which were commenced in 1874 , were suggested by observations made by Professor CLERK MAXWELL and M. FIZEAU .
The former ( Theory of Heat , ' p. 8 ) , in discussing the effects of heat upon matter , writes : " " The body generally expands ( the only exception among solid bodies , as far as I am aware , is iodide of silver , which has been found to contract as the tempera* The author has been engaged at intervals during the last five years on an investigation of the effect of heat in producing expansion and contraction in iodide of silver and some other allied iodides and their alloys .
A series of papers on the subject , written as the results were successively got out , have been published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society .
The paper which forms the last of the series , and which contains the results obtained with an extended series of alloys , by the methods which were ultimately adopted as the best , was read before Royal Society on December 8 , 1881 , and au abstract only of it has appeared in the Proceedings .
The prcscnt memoir is made up of the paper in question , preceded by a general account of the whole tion .
It was thought that results of interest might be obtained as to the molecular constitution of this anomalous body , by examining the effects of heat upon it at higher temperatures than those employed by FIZEAU ( which in no case exceeded 100 C. ) ; also by forming compounds , or alloys , with it , and other bodies , and determining the effect of its presence upon the coefficients of expansion and the physical structure of such bodies .
In this connexion we must remember that the phenomena exhibited by the iodide of silver on heating , are approximated to the anomalous behaviour of ice , bismuth , and some other substances , which at the moment of fusion , and for a few degrees above that point , exhibit contraction .
Moreover , certain crystals contract in the direction of one of their axes on heating ; while garnets and some other minerals undergo an increase of specific gravity on being strongly heated , and slowly recover their original density .
ERMAN asselts that the alloy of 2 parts bis1nuth , 1 part lead , and 1 part tin , which fuses at C. , expands when heated from to C. , but on further heating contracts so that at C. the density is the same as at , and at greater than at .
At a higher temperature expansion again sets in , and at the alloy has again the same density as at while the density just before fusion is the same as that at C. A number of metallic alloys of somewhat similar , also possess anomalous coefficients .
* 2 .
METHOD 0F RESEARCH , AND THE APPARATUS EMPLOYED .
The first series of experinuents were made with a view of the volume occupied by iodide of silver at different ) between and 30 C. Preliminary experiments showed the nature of the changes to be examine\amp ; A mass of iodide of silver fused in a glass tube contracted while cooling so that it could be withdrawn from the tube , but on returning it to the tube and permitting it to cool further , it was seen to suddenly change in colour and structure , and simultaneously to expand , violently break the tube .
Again , a thin spherical flask , which contained 10 cubic centims. , was fitted with a long capillary tube attached to an accurately ground stopper .
Iodide of silver was placed in the flask , which was then filled with mercury , and the capillary tube attached , forming in fact a large thermometer , the bulb of which contained , in addition to the mercury , a quantity of iodide of silver .
On heating such an arrangement the mercury was observed to expand , until the contraction of the iodide exceeded the expansion of the mercury , when on further heating , the column of mercury descended in the tube .
* See a paper ' On the Expansion and Specific Heat of Fusible Alloys by W. SPRINQ , Ann. Chim .
Phys. , [ 5 ] , , 178-228 .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
On cooling , the mercury rose in the tube , until the contraction of the mercury exceeded the expansion of the iodide .
Thus it was obvious that some method of examination must be adopted , which should be equally applicable to the indication , and measurement , of either expansion or contraction .
Three experimental methods were tried .
The last was finally adopted . .
Method of the flask.\mdash ; Professor GUTHRIE suggested to me that a convenient mode of determining the contraction of the iodide might be to fill a specific gravity flask with mercury , and to determine the amounts of mercury driven through the capillary tube of the stopper for every ten or twenty degrees increase of temperature ; then to place in the flask a known weight of fused iodide of silver , together with a known weight of mercury , and to repeat the determinations for similar ranges .
440 grms. of mercury were thus heated , and weighings were made intervals of C. ; afterwards grms. of iodide of silver were introduced , and the heating maintained through similar ranges ; but it was found that as the temperature approached C. the iodide of silver was slightly decomposed by the hot mercury , green protoxide of mercury , , being formed .
Thus this method had to be abandoned . .
Method of the microscope.\mdash ; It was thought that rods of the iodide might be placed in a vertical bath of paraffine , and examined in the field of a microscope fibted with a micrometer eyepiece , during heating through various ranges of temperatures .
The following apparatus was constructed for this purpose:\mdash ; Two blocks of white marble , 8 inches high by 4 inches by 3 inches , were placed 15 inches apart .
Between them the paraffine bath of copper was supported on massive iron bars , terminated by levelling screws which rested on the marble blocks .
The length of the bend in the iron bars , and the height of the brass levelling screws between the marble and the iron bars were so arranged that the upward expansion of the one compensated the downward expansion of the other .
The bath contained ceresine capable of being heated to 34 C. A frame fitted into the bath con taining HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPLR .
1129 sliding bar , one end of which bears upon the first lever , while the other is in contact with a short rod of glass , which moves freely , but water-tight , in a metal stuffingbox .
The rod of glass thus enters a brass trough , which can be filled with water or melted paraffine , and heated by means of a burner .
The water or paraffine is allowed to run off at the end of an experiment by the tap G. is a rod of glass similar to , which moves freely , bnt water-tight , in the metal stuffing-box I. Between and is placed the rod of substance , the expansion or contraction of which , we desire to determine .
The end of external to the trougl ] rests against the end of the micrometer-screw , which is tipped with agate , and which moves steadily in the support firmly clamped to the iron bar , which is screwed to the base of the instrument N. The head of the micrometer-screw , , is graduated into 250 divisions , and is figured to 500 ; the graduations are read off against the cross arm P. A plall of the levers is shown in fig. 2 , where ( the end of which is seen in fig. 1 ) is the movable bar , sliding in a socket and bearing against the first lever , which is pivoted at T. The lever bears against a second lever , pivoted at .
From the opposite extremity of a fine steel chain , such as is employed in watches , passes to vertical axis X , which carries the needle B. The needle is brought back to by the pressure of the spring against the lever , and also by a fine steel nspring , which is fixed to the vertical axis X. is a small pin to stop the lever as soon as the needle has passed the zero-point by a few degrees .
The levers are shown in section in fig. 3\ldquo ; the lettering is the same throughout .
The framework is of brass , as are also the levers ; the pivots are of steel .
Pieces of glass , , are let into the levers at the bearing points to diminish the friction .
The micrometer has threads of an inch apart : hence one complete revolution of the micrometer-head is equal to of an inch , and a movement of the head through one division is equal to of an inch ; but it is quite easy to read to half a divi- sion , and hence to of an inch .
The rods inserted between the micrometer and the lever are 6 inches long , and from inch to inch in diameter ; they rested in the earlier experiments on light glass rollers placed in the trough F. A rod of tho substance to be examined is inserted between and ; perfect continuity of the parts is established , and the micrometer-head is turned until the needle stands at zero ; the reading on the micrometer is registered , and the head is then turned until the index has passed to of arc ; by again reading the micrometer , the relation between the micrometric divisions and the divisions on the scale of is established .
By this means it was found that a movement of 0035 inch in the micrometer moves the index through of arc .
Now since the index is 6 inches long , in moving through half a circle its extremity passes over 18.84 inches , and this motion is produced by a movement of 0035 inch ; hence the levers multiply any motion communicated to them 5382 times .
The precise value of this index-scale having been ascertained , the determination of the expansion of a body by heat becomes an easy matter , provided that we are careful to secure perfect rigidity in all the fixed parts of the apparatus ( by no means an easy task ) , and are further careful to prevent the body , the index is pushed up to 18 of arc by means of the micrometer-screw , and is pushed back to zero as the bar contracts by the spring and the helical mainspring Z. The precise value of the retlJrn movement must be , of course , ascertained by means of the micrometer-head .
It is obvious that in moving from to 18 of arc the spring acts the motion of the expanding body ; while in moving from 18 to it moves ) the motion of the contracting body .
All the earlier determinations were made with the apparatus in this form .
Subsequently , and the later determinations , the following changes were made mainly with a view of reducing the resistance by diminishing friction:\mdash ; 1 .
The wooden base was replaced by a massive stone block , to which the box containing the levers , and the upright carrying the micrometer-head were firmly bolted .
2 .
The levers ( fig. 2 ) were reduced in weight .
3 .
The spring ( fig. 2 ) was removed , as it was found that the recoil of the helical spring was quite sufficient to bring the index back to zero , and the presence of served only to increase the resistance and general strain .
4 .
The vertical axis X ( figs. 1 and 3 ) was no longer allowed to work in the upper confining plate of the framework , but it was caused to turn lightly in a bent arm above , while below it rested upon a slightly hollowed ruby .
5 .
The chain communicating motion from the lever to the vertical axis X , which carries the index , was shortened and caused to wind upon the barrel in such a manner that when unwound to the extent of half a single coil , it moved the index through its entire range , viz. : from to of arc .
By this means any possibility of the chain bling upon itself was obviated .
6 .
But perhaps the most important changes were the removal of the stuffing boxes I and the rods from the trough , and the substitution of levers working over the rim of the trough ; and the suspension of the rod of substance under examination in a cradle between the levers .
This was effected in the following manner:\mdash ; A horizontal bar ( fig. 4 ) was supported by rods , strengthened by cross bars ( not shown ) let into the stone base of the instrument ; it carried -shaped brass levers , moving about axes at ( figs. 4 and 5 ) , attached at the points , A. is the trough in which hot ceresine is used for heating the bar under examination , , which is supported by the oradle G. Two rods 1 , 1 , which slide in holes and are capable of being held at any height by screws , support the cradle G. is the rod ( figs. 1 and 2 ) which bears upon the lever , and the point of the micrometer-screw .
A bar of fine homogeneous silver was used in order to test the delicaoy of the apparatus .
It was placed between the levers , and cold water was poured into trough .
The temperature was indicated by two thermometers reading together , placed near the opposite extremities of the silver bar , and the needle was Rods of other metals gave the following results:\mdash ; Iron .
Copper .
Lead Zinc Eianion-apparatus .
Various observers .
00002924 00002918 It is thus evident that the apparatus is capable of considerable accuracy , especially when we remember that we are dealing with rods of substance only 6 inches in length .
I venture to think that such an apparatus would prove a useful adjunct to a Physical Laboratory ; for it would not only afford a means of determining coefficients of expansion with rapidity and accuracy , but it might be used for determining thicknesses in thousandths and ten-thousandths of an inch .
For if the substance were introduced between the agate face of the micrometer-screw and the lever , and if the index were then driven round to a certain point ( say of arc ) , and so with the other substances tested , an exact uniformity of pressure of the face of the screw on the substance would be secured , and minute thicknesses might thus be measured with accuracy .
In constructing such an apparatus , extreme rigidity of the fixed parts is a main necessity ; the base should be of thick marble , and the micrometer-screw support should be deeply let it and firmly secured .
Massive supports , apparently fixed with the utmost firmness , sometimes yield with surprising readiness to the extent of of an inch .
The elasticity of the metal often causes great inconveniences .
The levers must be firm and strong , but not unnecessarily heavy ; they should work very smoothly .
Agate should be let into the brass at the points of contact .
Care should be taken to avoid any transference of heat from the hot trough to other parts of the apparatus .
By the use of a paraffine of high boiling-point , the temperature of a bar submitted to heat in the trough ( F ) can be raised to C. Under such circumstances great care is requisite to prevent heat from being radiated or otherwise communicated to other parts of the apparatus .
Jleans employed to determine the expansion in passing from the solid to the liquid condition .
The determination of the amount of expansion which the various bodies examined undergo in passing from the solid to the liquid condition was effected in the following manner : conical tube of platinum weighing grms. was carefully filled with mercury at a known temperature .
It contained 105.43 grms. of mercury .
It was HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
then filled with the substance under examination at its melting-point ; the substance was allowed to solidify , and the whole was weighed .
The cavity due to the con- traction of the mass in solidifying was then filled with mercury to the level of the mouth of the conical tube , and the mercury was weighed .
Then , knowing the capacity of the tube , the gravity of mercury , and of the substance under examination , the temperature of the fusing-point , and the coefficient of expansion of the platinum cone , we have all the data requisite for the determination .
A glass tube was sometimes employed .
The real difficulty is the determination of temperatures above the boilingpoint of mercury ; and until a trustworthy method of general application has been deyised , such determinations must be regarded as approximations .
The expressions " " below a red heat " " a dull red heat \amp ; c. , are still common in text-books and in memoirs ; but the very definitions of what is meant by a dull red heat\ldquo ; vary , as also do the temperatures assigned to it by different writers .
The method of Mr. CARNELLEY ( Jour .
Chem. Soc. , 1876 ) appears to be the most accurate yet devised .
3 .
IODIDE 0F SILVER , Experiments were made in order to determine certain general physical properties of iodide of silver before placing it in the expansion apparatus .
It was prepared:\mdash ; By precipitation according to the equation A dilute solution of pure iodide of potassium was added to a dilute solution of nitrate of silver .
The precipitated iodide was thoroughly washed with boiling distilled water , slowly dried , fused rapidly in a porcelain crucible , and cast into cylindrical rods in warm thin tubes of well-annealed glass .
( ) By dissolving pure silver ( for which my thanks are due to Professor CHANDLER in hydriodic acid , evaporating to dryness , and fUsing .
( ) By exposing silver leaf to the spontaneous evaporation of iodine .
The iodide prepared by precipitation was commonly used for all the purposes described in the following pages , with the exception of the ents relating to the effect of light upon the iodide .
properties .
\mdash ; The molten iodide which forms a mobile bromine-red liquid , solidifies at 52 C. to a perfectly transparent , very flexible , claret-coloured solid ; as it cools it becomes lighter in colour , and the colour of amber , and as C. is approached it becomes pale yellow .
All this time it has been ] contracting on cooling .
At C. the contraction ceases , and the mass neither expands nor contracts till the temperature has fallen to C. , when expansion commences , slowly at first , but becoming very rapid between C. and C. The body simultaneously changes from a plastic transparent , amorphous state , to that of a crystaJline , opaque , HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
The expanding force is considerable .
Attempts to burst an iron bottle did not succeed , but a thick porcelain tube was violently broken .
An attempt to determine with accuracy the relative conductivities , for heat , of iodide , bromide , and chloride of silver was not successful ; but the result showed that the bromide conducts somewhat better than the chloride , and more than twice as well as the iodide .
We have seen above that iodide of silver passes at between C. and 14 O. ffom the transparent amorphous variety to the opaque crystalline state .
( Pogg .
Ann. , cxlui .
, p. 560 ) mentions that prisms of fused iodide when cooled to 18 C. exhibit a sudden alteration of colour and transparency ; and he considers that at a high temperature " " part of the iodine is separated from its combination with the silver , and is absorbed by the remaining substance in the liquid state , for the spectrum , like that of solid and liquid iodine , contains no blue or violet light .
In normal state , below C. , silver iodide gives a spectrum less bright but twice as long , and particularly developed in the blue-violet portion The supposed redistribution of the iodine at a high temperature was not borne out by any of our results .
Many experiments were made in order to decide between the very contradictory statements in regard to the action of light upon the iodide of silver , with the general result that the pure iodide is quite unaffected .
Even when the iodide was precipitated in a cell at the apex of rays of the electric light concentrated by a large lens , it did not darken .
Determination of the coefficients of expansion ontraction .
' by a method depending on the accuracy with which extremely minute movements can be appreciated , by observing the changes they produce in a ystem of NEWTON'S rings determined the coefficient of cubic contraction of iodide of silver between -1 C. C. , and found it to be 00000417 for 1o C. This possession of what FIZEAU terms a " " negative coefficient of expansion\ldquo ; is the more remarkable when we remember that the chlorides , bromides , and iodides of potassium , sodium , and ammonium , and the chloride and brom .
id of silver , expand considerably when heated , more so , indeed , than the most expansible metals , such as lead , tin , and zinc .
The contraction of the iodide of silver is , according to FIZEAU , quite regular between C. and C. ( 158 F. ) ; and he calculates that the contraction is equal to about of its volume at C. for C. , or , again , equal to one-sixth the expansion of platinum for 10 C. He also found that a large hexagonal crystal exhibited a very considerable contraction in the direction of the axis of symmetry , while a slight expansion was produced in a direction normal to the axis of the crystal .
contraction was observed in the case both of the crystal , a confused crystalline mass , and an amorphous mass produced by strongly compressing the precipitated iodide until it became a hard mass capable of receiving a fine polish , and possessing a specific gravity of .
FIZEAU considers * ' Sir le propriete qui possede l'iodure d'argent de se .
par la chaleur et de se dilater par le froid Comptes Rendus , 1867 .
( Tom. lxiv .
p. 314 .
) ture of C. M. FIZEAU'S determination was adopted for the range of temperature between \mdash ; 1 C. and C. For higher temperatures the iodide was examined in the expansion apparatus ( p. 1128 ) .
Careful castings were made of the iodide in tubes of thin warm glass , 9 inches long by inch diameter .
The ends were sawn plane and carefully worked on fine sand-paper so as to produce a rod 6 inches in length .
Copper caps were fitted on the ends of the bar , and it was supported in the cradle ( fig. 4 ) of the apparatus .
By turning the micrometer-screw the index was forced up to of arc .
Water was used for heating the bars up to C. , and ceresine for higher temperatures .
On heating the bar the index began to retreat very slowly , sbowing contraction , and this continued until a temperature of 14 C. was attained , when the contraction became more rapid ; between 14 C. and C. it was very rapid , at C. it ceased ltogether , and the needle was motionless , showing that although heat was being absorbed neither contraction nor expansion was taking place ; and at 16 C. expansion commenced and continued to the melting point .
The contraction , as stated , commenced at 14 C. and terminated at C. ; but it mainly took place between 14 C. and C. Thus in all for the C. , during which the mass contracted , the index retreated through 18 revolutions of 13 to of arc of the instrument , and these were related to the temperatures in the following manner :\mdash ; 1 revolution of the index took place during heating from to 14 C. 14 , , , , ] , .
COEFFICIENTS of cubical contraction and expansion for 1o C. Between and C. , , .
, , .
, , .
, , .
, , .
, , .
00000000 , , .
Plus has been placed before the coefficient of expansion on heating , before the coefficients of contraction .
The increase of volume in passing from the solid to the liquid state was determined by the method described on p. 1132 .
If we take the volume at C. as urlity , the following volumes correspond to the temperatures given between and the melting point:\mdash ; HALOID COMPOUNDS ] SILYER , MERCTJRY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
Obviously the iodide possesses two points of similar density at fferent temperatures .
Thus the density at 12 C. is the same as that at about 43 C. If be the specific gravity at C. , the specific gravity at the maximum density will be ; at the minimum density , and in the molten condition at 52 C. , the specific gravity will be 4 .
BROMrDE 0F SILVER .
Precipitated bromide of silver was fused , and cast in warm glass tubes .
The mass when warm was found to be somewhat tenacious ; the surface of the fused rod was smooth and brilliant , the fracture crystalline .
Repeated fusion seemed to render the substance more crystalline .
Although crystalline , the bromide was very compact , and altogether unlike the crystalline condition of the iodide ; the rod contracted a good deal in cooling , and easily came out of the tube in which it was fused .
Rods 6 inches long by 3 inch diameter had their ends levelled by means of a fine steel saw , and were placed in the expansion-apparatus , and tested as described in the case of the iodide of silver bars .
The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. was found to be .
FIZEAU by his optical method found the coefficient to be 000104061 .
The coefficient increases with the temperature , at least to the extent of 000004 for each 10 C. increase of range .
The expansion is very considerable in passing from the solid to the liquid condition .
The volumes corresponding to different temperatures and certain physical properties are tabulated with those of the chloride of silver ( see p. 1138 ) .
The bromide fuses to a reddish-brown liquid , not unlike bromine , and it solidifies to a bright yellow transparent solid when seen in thin layers .
In thick layers it appears to be brownish-yellow .
It is brittle even before it is quite cold .
During the process of loud cracking noises , like the cracking of a piece of porcelain or thick glass , are produced .
The solidified solid produces a metallic ring when struck ; but this is marked than in the case of the chloride of silver .
5 .
CHLORIDE 0F SILVER .
Precipitated chloride of silver was fused and cast in warm glass tubes .
It bad been very carefully prepared in the dark , and the fused mass in thin layers was colourless and quite transparent .
When warm , a rod of the chloride was very flexible , and to some extent malleable ; when cold , the bar did not bend without fracture , and repeated fusings seemed to render it more liable to fracture .
The rod contracted a good deal on cooling , and easily came out of the tube in which it was cast .
Rods of 6 inctles long by 3 inch in diameter had their ends levelled by means of a fine steel saw , and were placed in the expansion-apparatus , and tested as described in the case of the iodide of silver bars .
The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. was found to be .
FIZEAU by his optical method found coefficient to be 000098814 .
The coefficient increases with the temperature , least to the extent of 000003 for each lo C. increase of range .
The expansion is considerable in passing from the solid to the liquid condition .
The volumes corresponding to the different temperatures and certain physical properties are tabulated below with those of the bromide of silver .
The chloride fuses to a dull light-red liquid , and becomes faintly yelIow when solidified ; in thin layers , colourless and quite transparent .
When cold , it forms a palo greenish-yellow solid , also transparent in thin layers .
No sounds were emitted during cooling .
In thin layers the chloride is very flexible when cold ; and thick rods of it are flexible while hot .
It has a decided metallic ring if struck when cold .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , ND COPPER .
6 .
CnLOROBROMIODID ES OF , HAVING THE COMPOSITION AgBr , ; AgBr , AgBr , AgBr , Compounds of silver with iodine , bromine , and chlorine are found in nature : embolite is a ch]orobromide of silver , and minerals having respectively the composition , and , have been analysed by DOMEYKO , FIELD , MULLER , RICHTER and others .
ey occur chiefly in Chili , and constitute the principal ores of the silver mines of Chanarcillo .
They possess specific gravities which vary from to , and according to DANA the colour is " " greyish-green , and asparagus-green to pistachio or yellowish-green , and yellow ; often dark , becoming darker externally on exposure Von LASAULX has described in the 'Jahresberichte fur Mineralogie , ' for 1878 , a new silver haloid mineral having the composition which ha cites as the first instance of the three haloid salts occurring crystallized together in nature .
Two years previously I had prepared , for the purposes of this , a substance having the same composition , and its properties were described in Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 174 , 1876 .
It was found by Von LASAULX , associated with BEAUDANTITE , in a mine in the district of Ems , Nassau , in the form of small yellow , or olive-green octohedra , never exceeding 3 nlillims .
in size .
Five compounds of the halogens with silver were prepared , the first having the composition , and the others increasing by one molecule of to .
The substances were fused together in a porcelain crucible , and cast in glass tubes .
They were examined in the expansion apparatus in the usual manner .
The coefficients and more prominent physical characteristics are given in the following table .
Generally speaking , of all the compounds it may be said that they fused to a bromine-red transparent liquid , becoming successively brick-red , dull orange , and yellow or yellowish-brown on cooling .
They furnished bright yellow powders , turning green on exposure to light .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
Several facts require to be noted in regard to these compounds .
( 1 ) No. 1 , containing 26 per cent. of is almost unaffected by it , and closely resembles bromide of silver , save that a very slight contraction occurs on heating between 12 5 and C. , and the orange coloured powder produced by pulverisation turns green on exposure to light .
In No. 3 , which contains a little more than half its weight of iodide of silver , we find the greatest divergence in every respect from the properties of its constituents , although the influence of the is very marked both in the plasticity of the substance above 25 C. , and in the considerable contraction which takes place between 12 C. and C. It possesses the lowest lnelting point ( viz. : C. , which is C. lower than that of AgBr , which constitutes nearly one-fourth of its weight , and C. lower than that of , which constitutes more than half its weight ) , and the highest specific gravity .
In No. 5 , the influence of the is most marked , but the melting point is still 14 C. lower than that of the , which constitutes nearly three-fourths of its weight .
( 2 ) We may note that the fusing points diminish from 1 to 3 , and increase from 3 to 5 ; while the specific gravities diminish on both sides of No. 3 .
( 3 ) While iodide of silver commences its considerable contraction consequent upon change of state at 14 C. , and finishes it at C. ( mainly , however , between and the chlorobromiodides all commence their contraction at 12 C. , .
: C. lower , and finish at C. , or C. lower .
The lead-silver iodide ( p. 1149 ) practically does the same thing .
This matter is alluded to in greater detail in the general discussion of results ( pp. 1162 , 1163 ) .
( 4 ) It is a curious fact that until the percentage of iodide of silyer in the compounds becomes considerable , its chief influence is exerted between a narrow range of temperature ; and more than this , so soon as the contraction is over the mass undergoes far more rapid expansion than any of its constituents when heated through the same range of temperature .
The condition is obviously one of great complexity .
Take the case , for example , of the chlorobromiodide No. 3 .
Between C. and 12 C. aluy mass of 100 molecules consists of 58 which are undergoing slight contraction on heating , while 42 are undergoing rapid expansion .
Then between 12 C. and 13 C. 58 molecules are rapidly contracting ; heat is disappearing in internal work and is changing the crystalline into the amorphous iodide , i. e. , converting an opaque , brittle , highly crystalline body into a transparent , plastic , denser body ; while the 42 molecules of chloride and bromide are still expanding .
Finally , from C. to the fusing point , all the molecules are expanding , 42 of them quickly , and 58 of them slowly .
7 .
OF MERCURY , This substance is dimorphous .
In the amorphous condition it presents the appearance of a brilliant scarlet powder , which , if heated , fuses at 20 C. and volatilises just above the fusing point to a vapour more thaJl twice as dense as that of mercury .
to say , it has the exact colour of bromine .
The liquid when cooled solidifies to a redbrown solid , which speedily becomes yellow , and at C. it changes to the crimson octohedral variety .
Distinct cracking sounds , due to inter-molecular movements , were heard during the continuance of the change .
Heat is absorbed when the red iodide changes to yellow , and is given out when the yelow iodide changes to the red .
A bar of the iodide was placed in the expansion apparatus , melted paraffine poured upon it , and when the index had become steady a gentle heat was applied to the paraffine .
The index showerl a regular and slow expansion until a temperature of 12 C. was reached , when the bar began to change from the octohedral to the prismatic condition , and without further rise of temperature rapid expansion took place .
The temperature was kept constant until the change was complete , and was then slowly raised .
A regular expansion now took place under a higher coefficient than before the molecular change , and this continued until the melting point was attained .
The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. from C. to the point of change\mdash ; \mdash ; was found to be\mdash ; .
At C. , during the change from the red octohedral to the yellow prismatic condition , the body increased in bulk to the extent of\mdash ; .
The coefficient of cubical expansion for C. from 12 C. , after the change to the melting point , 20 C. , was\mdash ; .
Thus , if we supp se a molten mass of the iodide of mercury to be cooling down ffom 20 C. to C. , the following would be the volumes under the conditions indicated:\mdash ; Volume at C. of the liquid mass . . . .
solid mass . . .
C. ( yellow prismatic ( red octohedral condition ) . . . . .
The changes are shown at one view in the accompanying curve table , in which the expansion of mercury is given for comparison .
solidified , became red-brown , and , while cooling , brick-red , reddish-yellow , and , when completely cool , orallge-yellow .
Harsh noises , like those produced by bending tin , were heard during the cooling of the mass , and the fracture was highly crystalline .
Differences of opinion exist as to the effect of fusing iodide of lead in the air .
Experiments showed that it may be fused out of contact with air , with scarcely appreciable loss .
When , however , it was fused in contact with air , rapid decomposition ensued .
When the iodide was heated in a current of carbonic anhydride , it sublimed unchanged in crystals ; while if it was heated in a current of dry oxygen it rapidly decomposed , fine crystals of iodine collecting in the fore part of the tube .
The specific gravity of iodide of lead , in common with the iodides of copper , silver , and potassium , is less than the mean specific gravity of its constituents .
KARSTEN found it to be , BOULLAY , and my own determinations gave .
The calculated specific gravity is The fusing point as determined by Mr. CARNELLEY is 38 C. The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. was found to be for temperatures between C. and 20 C. It increased to between 20 C. and 25 C. Between 25 C. and 26 C. the mass expanded rapidly , with a coefficient nearly eight times greater than the previous , viz.:\mdash ; .
After the subsidence of this rapid expansion it no longer retained the original coefficient , but assumed one of more than double the amount , viz.:\mdash ; .
At temperatures some distance from the melting point the rod began to bend , and it became necessary to assume that this last coefficient continues to the melting point .
The expansion in passing from the solid to the liquid condition was determined by the method previously described .
It will be observed that the iodide of lead , as in the case of the iodide of mercury , has three coefficients of expansion , viz. a coefficient somewhat less than that of chloride of silver up to C. a coefficient during C. , nearly will allow the determination of coefficients to a temperature of 34 C. , and , undoubtedly , many bodies if thus examined would be found to present anomalies similar to those remarked in the case of the iodides of lead and mercury .
9 .
THE LEAD-SILVER IODIDE .
Bearing in mind the peculiar nature of the coeffi.cients of the chlorobromiodides of silver ( vide p. 1140 ) , it was thought to be advisable to determine the coefficients of a lead-silver odide .
These bodies were accordingly fused together in the proportion of one molecule of each , viz. : .
This contains in 100 parts Iodide of lead Iodide of silver .
Lead .
Silver Iodine The substances were fused together in a porcelain crucible , and cast in thin glass tubes 9 inches long by one-third of an inch in diameter .
The molten mass underwent the same changes of colour in cooling as either one of its constituents , and ultimately became a dull orange-coloured compact mass .
Although composed of two substances which are highly crystalline and brittle , the aUoy was found to be hard and tenacious .
Although the constituents are coarsely crystalline in structure , the aUoy is finely granular .
During the cooling of the mass it expanded with sufficient force to break the glass tube .
Harsh noises were emitted during cooling , and the whole mass was sometimes jerked from its position ; while , if held in the hand , it was felt to be agitated by strong tremors .
Mr. T. CARNELLEY has determined for me the melting point of the aUoy , which he finds to be 35 C. The specific gravity is By repeated digestion with large volumes of boiling water the aUoy is decomposed , the iodide of lead being dissolved , while the iodide of silyer remains as a dull green powder .
On examination in the expansion apparatus the alloy was found to undergo slow expansion to a temperature of 1 ] C. , then , for C. , it simply absorbed heat without either contracting or expanding .
At O. contraction commenced , and continued at unequal rates ] a temperature of C. was attained .
Again , the mass underwent neither contraction nor expansion during heating through C. , and then it commenced to expand somewhat rapidly .
The rapid contraction on heatin took place between 13 and C. Thus , in all , for the temperatures during which the mass contracted , the index moved through 15 revolutions of to of arc , and these were related to the temperatures in the following manner:\mdash ; 1 revolution of index took place during heating from 12 to C. The details of these contractions are shown in Table B. The heating , especially at these , was excessively slow , and so moderated that a complete observation of the behaviour of the substance in the expansion apparatus lasted from three to four hours .
Above 14 C. the alloy expanded with a coefficient about three times greater than that wLich it possessed betweed and C. IENTS of cubical expansion and contraction of the alloy for 1o C. Between and 11 C. , , .
, , .
Plus has been placed before the coefficients of expansion on heating ; minus before the coefficients of contraction .
The expansion in passing from .
the solid to the liquid condition was determined as before .
The curve is shown in Table ( p. 1145 ) .
The coefficient between C. and the fusing point increased rapidly with the temperature .
If we take the volume at C. as unity , we have the following volumes corresponding to the temperatures given HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
1149 Volume at C. .
350 ( solid ) 350 ( liquid ) . . . . .
In ard to this the following points may be noted:\mdash ; 1 .
It possesses a similar density at three different temperatures .
Thus , it is obvious that the density is the same at C. , at just below 13 C. , and at 2 .
Although the alloy contains only per cent. of iodide of silver , it contracts as considerably during heating as the , itself .
8 .
While the iodide of silver commences its contraction at C. , and finishes it at , the alloy commences to contract C. lower ( viz. : at and finishes C. lower ( viz. , at 4 .
The chlorobromiodides of silver also began to contract on heating ( an effect which , of course , we must attribute solely to the presence of iodide of silver at 12 C. , but they finished at 18 C. 5 .
The harsh sounds emitted by the alloy during cooling , and the tremors simultaneously propagated through the mass , prove that violent molecular agitation is going on , at such time as the iodide of silver is passing from the amorphous plastic condition , to the brittle crystalline condition , within the mass of the iodide of lead .
6 .
The fusing point of the alloy is C. lower than that of the iodide of silver , which constitutes one-third of its weight , and C. lower than that of the iodide of lead , which constitutes two-thirds of its weight .
7 .
If the lowering of the fusing point ( also markedly apparent in the case of the chlorobromiodides of silver ) is due to the fact that similar particles of matter attract each other more powerfully than dissimilar , and hence , when the particles of two bodies are mutually diffused , the attraction becomes less , and the molecular motion is consequently more readily assimilated , the me cause may serve to explain the commencement of the phase of contraction on heating the alloy , at a temperature C. lower than the substance to which it owes this property .
8 .
It is interesting to compare one of the chlorobromiodides of silver with the leadsilver iodide .
For this purpose we will take the chlorobromiodide which contains the nearest approach to the same quantity of iodide of silver as the alloy .
The second of the chlorobromiodides before described ( p. 1140 ) contains 41.484 per cent , of iodide of MR. G. F. ELL ON EFFECPS OF HEAt ON silver , and per cent. of the chloride and bromide of silver , which latter , from the heat point of view , may be regarded as the same substance , because their coefficients of expansion are practically the same .
It may be noted ( vide below ) that while the expansion of the bromide ( which is slightly greater than that of the chloride } scarcely exceeds that of the iodide of lead , and while , moreover , the chlorobromiodide contains 8 per cent. more iodide of silver than the d-silver iodide , the amount of contraction by heat of the latter is nearly four times greater than that of the former , although we must believe this effect to be solely due to the iodide of silver in each case .
COMPARISON of the coefficients of the iodide of lead and the bromide of silver , used in conjunction with iodide of silver in the formation of the two compounds given below .
Iodide of lead .
Bromide of silver .
Melting point .
C. C. Volume at C. .
383 ( solid ) , 427 ( solid 427 liquid ) .
COMPARISON of the coefficients of the lead-silver iodide alloy with those of a chlorobromiodide of silver , and of iodide of silver .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVHiR , RCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
The Tables show the curves of contraction and expansion of the lead-silver iodide alloy , and of its constituents .
In Table the scale has been enlarged in order to show the details of the contraction of the alloy on being heated from C. to 13 C. Other ] of iodide of iodide of silver were made , having the following composition :\mdash ; ( 1 ) , containing per cent. of iodide of silver .
( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 5 ) They all possessed the same general appearance as the alloy described above , which contains per cent. of iodide of silver .
But with the exception of No. 5 they were so brittle that they could not be cast into rods suitable for use with the expansion apparatus .
During cooling large rifts appeared in the rod at right angles to its length , at the time when the iodide of lver commenced to expand .
In the case of No. 1 the rod was violent]y broken during its cooling by the expanding iodide of silver ; even when slowly annealed in hot paraffine .
It may be noted that no such effect was produced in the case of the chlorobromiodides of silver , having the composition respectively : AgBr .
AgBr .
AgBr .
; and containing in each case a larger percentage of iodide of silver ( viz. : ; ; and ) than the silver-lead iodide ] No. 1 .
The chlorobromiodides , although , of course , their brittleI ] increased with the percentage of iodide of silver , formed less brittle rods than the iodide of silver , and than the first of the silver-lead iodide alloys , although the latter contains 23 per cent. less iodide of silver than the chlorobromiodide AgBr .
10 .
IODIDE OF COPPER .
The cuprous iodide was prepared by the method of SOUBEIRAN , in which an aqueous solution of two molecules of cupric sulphate and two molecules of ferrous sulphate is precipitated by potassic iodide , according to the equation The precipitated iodide was washed with dilute sulphuric acid and with water , and was completely dried at 20 C. It then presented the appearance of a nearly white powder , not of a dead white colour like oxide of zinc , but white with a tinge of grey .
On heating to a temperature considerably exceeding 20 C. it becomes pale canaryyellow , which just before its fusion changes to orange .
When fused it forms a bromide-red liquid , which solidifies to a steel-grey crystalline mass .
If the fused nlass 1 ] .
52 MR. G. F. RODWELL ON THE EFFECTS OF HEAT ON CERTAIN be powdered , the powder presents the same grey-white colour as the original precipitate .
SOUBEIRAN asserts that cuprous iodide fuses to a brown mass , which yields a green powder , and I imagine from this that he did not entirely wash out all traces of ferrou@ and ferric sulphate from the precipate .
In thin laminae it is translucent , transmitting a greenish light .
It fuses at 60 C. according to the dsterminations of Mr. ARNELLEY .
When heated in the air it begins to give off iodine soon after the temperatnre has passed 23 C. , but it gives it off most copiously when fused in the air .
Oxide of copper is left .
When heated in a current of dry carbonic anhydride the iodide gives off a small amount of iodine , and afterwards remains in fusion without undergoing decomposition .
At a bright red heat it slowly volatilises , the sublimate condensing ately above the molten mass which is producing it .
When heated in a current of dry oxygen , iodine is freely evolved , and oxide of copper ultimately remairls in the form of a fine crystalline powder .
A quantity of iodide weighing grms. was heated for many hours in an airbath to a temperature of C. It lost per cent. On raising the temperature and maintaining it between and 30 C. for several hours the loss increased to .
It was then ignited over a one-jet BUNSEN burner for 16 minutes , the cover being retained on the crucible .
The total loss amounted to .
The crucible was now strongly heated over a four-jet BUNSEN burner ; the mass of course freely fused , and evolved iodine although the crucible was covered .
After heating for 10 minutes the loss due to this heating was , and the total loss was equal to per cent. A further ignition of five minutes only raised the total loss to .
The ignition was then continued with the cover of the crucible removed .
Iodine was freely evolved .
After more than an hour 's ignition no more iodine was evolved , and the weight became constant .
The loss amounted to per cent. of the whole , leaving in the crucible .
of cupric oxide in minute crystals .
The calculated weight of the residue , on the supposition that all the is converted into , is grms. Hence there can be no doubt that the iodine is completely expelled and replaced by oxygen .
Subsequent testing of the residue failed to reveal the presence of any iodine .
grms. of the iodide only lost per cent. by heating for about 15 hours to a temperature of 23 C. grms. heated for some time to 19 C. ] per cent. ; at C. it lost ; on raising the temperature to 26 C. for some hours the loss increased to .
Ignition for 20 minutes over a one-jet BUNSEN ( the cover being kept on the crucible ) raised the loss to .
The cover was then removed , and after strong ignition for more than an hour no more iodine was evolved , and .
of oxide of copper remained in the crucible .
The calculated is The loss of weight on ignition is equal to the difference between the atomic weight of iodine and of oxygen , for the change is expressed by .
Hence HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
115.3 for every of iodine lost 16 of oxygen is gained .
No definite oxyiodide seems to be formed midway , but merely a mixture of and .
Cuprous iodide cannot be fused without some loss of iodine and oxidation of the surface .
This mixture of iodide and oxide forms a black scum on the surface of the ] iodide , which is less fusible than the iodide , and which effectually protects it from the air .
In casting , the more fluid iodide easily runs from beneath this partially oxidised surface .
Some of the latter was fused after running off the pure iodide from beneath , and its specific gravity taken , and was found , as we should expect , to be lower than that of the iodide ; for while the specific gravity of the latter is , that of the partially oxidised surface was found to be only The iodide was found to contract considerably when it solidified .
A deep hollow cone sinks into the mass in the act of solidifying .
The change of volume which occurs in the passage from the solid to the liquid state determined by the method of the platinum cone before described .
Good rods of the iodide were cast by quickly fusing the powdered precipitate and pouring the fused iodide from beneath the semi-oxidised crust into warm glass tubes .
The resulting cast rod was brittle and possessed a da.rk steel-grey colour , no doubt due to surface oxidation .
The fracture was highly crystalline and the rods somewhat brittle .
The rods were reduced by sawing to a length of 6 inches ; the ends were rendered plane by rtlbbing on a level surface of sand-paper , and were furnished with copper caps .
The expansion was determined in the apparatus described above ( p. 1128 ) .
Unlike the iodides of lead and silver , the iodide of copper does not possess more than one coefficient of expansion , ab least for temperatures below 30 C. The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. was found to be It increases but slightly with the temperature .
If the cast rod is plunged into hot paraffine and allowed to cool very ] the coefficient is somewhat lower .
The determinations of the volume in the molten state were not satisfactory , owing to the high temperature at which the iodide fuses and the readiness with which it then superficially undergoes oxidation .
The following volumes correspond to the temperatures given:\mdash ; Volume at C. . . . . . .
601 ( solid ) . . . . .
601 ( liquid ) . . . . .
11 .
IODIDES .
1 .
Copper-silver iodide , Iodide of silv and iodide of copper were fused together in the proportion of o1ie molecule of each .
The fusing point was obviously lower than that of either of the constituents ; the fUsion was tranquil , and the mass did not oxidise at the surface .
The alloy contains in 100 parts:\mdash ; Iodide of copper Copper . . .
Iodide of silver .
Silver Iodine .
Specific gravity of the cast-rod , ( 2 ) .
When fused in a tube , instead of being cast into it , the specific grayity was a little higher\mdash ; 1 ) 5.7302 ( 2 ) 5.7500 .
The melting point of this , and of each of tlje other alloys , was determined for me by Mr. CARNELLEY .
melts at C. Although containing 38 per cent. of iodide of silver the alloy contracted on cooling , and came easily out of the glass tube .
It was in in the mass , but when powdered it was a brilliant yellow , unaffected by light .
In thin layers it was yellow and perfectly transparent .
Fracture resinous .
Rods one-third of an inch in diameter and six inches long were cast in hot glass tubes .
The ends were sawn plane by a fine steel saw , and were afterwards worked smooth on sand-paper , and furnished with copper caps .
They were examined in the expansion apparatus in the usual way .
The alloy expanded on heating under a definite coefficient of 00004998 until a temperature of 22 C. was attained , when the coefficient began to rapidly , and between 22 C. and 25 C. it fell to .
Between C. and C. the mass simply absorbed heat without undergoing either contraction or expansion .
At 28 C. it began to contract , and between that ature and 30 C. it underwent slight contraction under a negative coefficient of .
At 30 C. the contraction ceased and the mass simply absorbed heat without either contracting or expanding , till a temperature of C. had been attained , at which point rapid expansion set in under a coefficient of which is more than three times greater than the coefficient of expansion between C. and 22 C. HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
1155 The following volumes correspond to the temperatures given:\mdash ; Volume at C. . . . .
melting point ] . . . .
( 514 C. ) liquid . . . .
, , The fact that the alloy does not commence to expand again after its phase of contract.ion till a temperature of 32 C. has been attained , necessitated the raising of the temperature to an unusual height .
The ceresine employed for heating , ignites when air has free access to it at 30 C. Moreover , ordinary thermometers which cont a vacuum above the mercury cannot be heated above 33 C. as the mercury then commences to boil .
But these difficulties were overcome , and the ceresine was even carl.ied to a temperature of 34 C. by closely covering the experimental trough with a brass plate so as to shut out direct access of air , leaving room only for the thermometer and for the working of the levers .
Great care was taken to screen the rest of the apparatus by ight metal plates from the effects of radiation .
The thermometer difficulty was got over by leaving a little air in the tube above the mercury , by which means it could be heated to 35 C. with readiness , but , of course , it must be borne in mind that the readings at these high temperatures are less reliable than those at lower ranges .
It was not found to be practicable to work above 84 C. , as such a temperature the ceresine is liable at any moment to igni te ; moreover it fumes furiously , and begins to decompose .
The dense acrid vapours particula , rly irritating to lungs and eyes .
Neyertheless for temperatures up to 34 C. , ceresine or a paraffine of high boiling point , is , I believe , the convenient medium that we possess .
2 .
Copper-silver iodide The percentage of iodide of silver was now augmented to 55 by the addition of another molecule .
contains:\mdash ; Iodide of copper Iodide of silver .
Copper .
Silver Iodine brilliant yellow .
Unaffected by light .
The alloy expanded on heating from C. to C. with a cubical coefficient for 1o C. of Between 22 C. and 23 C. it simply absorbed heat without either expanding or contracting .
At 23 C. it commenced to contract , with a negative coefficient of 000105 S7 .
This continued until a temperature of 29 C. been attained , : through C. , when expansion commenced with a coefficient of for 1o C. and continued until the melting point had been attained .
The following volumes correspond to the temperatures given:\mdash ; Volume at C. . . . . . . . . .
melting point ( solid ) .
( liquid ) , , 3 .
Copper-silrer iodide cdloy , The percentage of iodide of silver was further increased to by the addition of another molecule .
contains :\mdash ; Iodide of copper Copper Iodide of silver Silver .
Iodine .
The alloy was more brittle than the preceding .
Fracture , as before , resinous .
Colour : in the mass , brown ; in thin laminae , yellow and transparent ; in powder , yellow .
Unaffected by light .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
Melting point C. Specific gravity 5716 .
The alloy expanded on heating from C. to C. , then it simply absorbed heat without either expanding or contracting till it attained a temperature of C. Rapid contraction now took place , and continued through C. , viz. : to C. At this temperature the mass began to expand with the same coefficient as that possessed by the previous alloy ( No. 2 ) above 29 C. The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1o C. from C. to 17 C. was .
Between 17 C. and 19 C. the coefficient diminished to .
Then the alloy simply absorbed beat without change of volume .
At 21 C. it commenced to contract under a negative coefficient of .
This continued until a temperature of 28 C. had been ched , when expansion commenced under the coefficient of 00009474 for 1o C. This continued to the melting point .
The following volumes oorrespond to the temperatures given : Volume at C. . . . . .
melting point ( solid ) .
( liquid ) .
: 4 .
Copper-silver iodide alloy , The percentage of silver iodide was further increased to by the addition of a fourth molecule .
contains : \mdash ; Copper Silver .
Iodine .
The alloy resembled the preceding .
It was , however , slightly more brittle , and the fracture was more crystalline .
The colour in the mass was brownish-yellow ; in thin laminae bright yellow ; and in powder a brilliant yellow .
Unaffected by light .
Melting point C. Specific gravity 7064 .
The alloy expanded on heating from C. to 15 C. under a coefficient of .
Between C. and 18 C. the coefficient fell to .
From ls C. to 19 C. it simply absorbed heat without undergoing either expansion or contraction .
At 19 C. contraction commenced , and continued under a negative coefficient of till 21 C. , when increased to , and so conbinued ti11234o C. , when it fell to , under which coefficient it contracted till a temperature of C. was attained .
Somewhat rapid expansion then set in , with a coefficient of .
The following correspond to the temperatures given:\mdash ; Volume at C. . . . . . . . .
melting point ( solid ) .
( liquid ) 5 .
Copper-silver iodide The percentage of silver iodide was finally increased to 88 by alloying one molecule of iodide of copper with twelve of iodide of silver .
This extreme was employed in order to test the extent to which a small percentage of iodide of copper may mask for a while the prominent characteristics of the iodide of silver .
None of the alIoys HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
hitherto prepared contain so large a percentage of iodide of silver .
AgBr contains 74 per cent. contains :\mdash ; . . .
Copper Silver .
- .
Iodine .
The alloy possessed a yellowish-green colour in the mass , but thin layers of it were yellow and transparent .
The powder was yellow : much brighter than that of iodide of silver , but not quite so brilliant as that of the other alloys .
It turned slightly green on exposure to light .
The fracture was crystalline ; the grain being much finer than that of the iodide of silver .
The alloy violently broke the tube in which it was cast by expansion during cooling , but no rifts appeared in the rod ; nor was it nearly so brittle as iodide of silver .
Melting point C. Specific gravity The alloy expanded on heating from C. to 12 C. under a coefficient of .
Between C. and 15 C. it simply absorbed heat without undergoing either expansion or contraction .
At 15 C. contraction commenced , and tinued under a negative coefficient of till a temperature of C. had been attained , when it increased to , and so continued till the temperature had risen to 22 C. , when expansion commenced under the coefficient .
The following volumes correspond to the temperatures given:\mdash ; Volume at C. . . . . .
DISCUSSION OF 1 .
The copper-silver iodide alloys described in the foregoing pages vary in regard to the quantity of iodide of silver which they possess to the extent of 60 per cent. ; the lowest , , containing 38 per cent. of iodide of silver , and the highest , , 88 per cent. 2 .
It will be noticed , however , that the percentage of iodine varies but little , for while contains per cent. , contains 3 .
The specific graviW of the alloys varies slightly , and is a little above the mean specific gravity of their constituents .
This was also observed in the case of the five chlorobromiodides of silver previously described ( p. 1140 ) , and in that of the lead-silver alloy , and while the specific gravity of is , and of , that of the alloys is as follows:\mdash ; 6.7302 4 .
The melting points do not differ much from each other , in fact those of , and , are practically the same ; but they are considerably lower than those of constituents : i.e. , more than C. lower than that of iodide of copper , and more than C. lower than that of iodide of silver .
This was also noticed in the case of the chlorobromiodides of silver , and in that of the lead-silver iodide alloy .
5 .
While both the iodide of copper and the iodide of silver are highly crystalline in structure , even in thin layers , the copper-silver iodides are resinous in fracture and transparent in thin layers , even when they contain as much as 65 per cent. of iodide of silver , With greater percentages the structure becomes slightly crystalline .
6 .
It is obvious that some of the alloys possess three points of similar density ; and others two , at different temperatures .
Thus , in the case of , the density is the same at C. , 26 C. , and 33 C. 7 .
When strongly heated in a current of carbonic anhydride the alloys remained in tranquil fusion , undergoing an extremely slow volatilization .
Heated in a current of dry oxygen , iodine was freely evolved , and oxide of copper appeared on the surface of the mass .
When heated in dry hydrogen , hydriodic acid was formed , and the iodides were reduced .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
8 .
The general colour of the alloys was in the mass from brown-yellow to greenyellow , as the percentage of iodide of silver was increased .
In thin laminae bright yellow , and in a powder a brilliant dark yellow , becoming slightly lighter as the percentage of iodide of silver was increased .
9 .
The coefficient of expansion of the alloys below the point at which contraction on heating commences , was found to decrease as the percentage of iodide of silver was augmented :\mdash ; Percentage of .
Coefficient of expansion .
It was in an cases considerably less than that of iodide of copper .
The same fact was observed in the case of the chlorobromiodides of silver:\mdash ; Percentage of .
Coefficient of expansion .
10 .
On the other hand , the expansion above the point at which contraction on heating finishes , was greater than that of either the iodide of silver or the iodide of copper .
11 .
MATTHIESSEN asserts that the coefficient of expansion of a metallic alloy is the mean of the coefficients of expansion of the several volumes of the metals composing it , and in the case of ordinary alloys this law undoubtedly holds good .
But in the iodide of silver alloys the conditions are so complex that we can scarcely hope for the same result .
Nor do we find it .
We are dealing , on the one hand , with a substance which possesses several allotropic modifications ; several distinct coefficients of contraction on heating , and one coefficient of expansion ; and , on the other hand , with bodies , which like the iodides of lead and mercury also possess allotropic modifications , each with its own coefficient of expansion , or with a single coefficient of expansion and no allotropic modification like the iodide of copper .
12 .
MATTHIESSEN considers that in nearly all cases two-metal alloys may be regarded solidified solutions of the one metal in the other , as glass is a solidified solution 01 different sihcates , or gold and silver in the gold-silver alloys .
13 .
The lowering of the fusin point of alloys undoubtedly means that the cohesion of the particles in the alloy is less than that of the particles in its constituents ; and the homogeneous diffusion of one substance in another must make the molecular attraction less than that of either body by itself Hence , molecular motion is more readily assimilated , and sooner produces any given effect , such as the fusion of the mass .
14 .
It was thought that the same explanation would apply to the curious fact that the five chlorobromiodides of silver , and the lead-silver iodide alloy , all commenced their period of contraction on heating at a lower temperature than the iodide of silver , to which substance alone can they owe their contraction on heating , but the results obtained with the copper-silver iodide alloys appear to discredit this .
15 .
For it is most noteworthy in this connexion to observe that while the iodide of silver commences to contract considerably on heating , that is to pass from its crystalline into its amorphous plastic condition , at C. , the five chlorobromiodides of silver , the percentage of iodide of silver in which varies from to , and the lead-silver iodide alloy , the percentage of iodide of silver in which amounts to all commence their contraction at 12 C. , that is C. lower , although the coefficients of expansion of the associated bodies necessarily differ .
It would thus appear that C. is the temperature at which iodide of silver commences its passage from the crystalline into the amorphous condition when freed from the attraction of its own molecules , provided no other attraction or influence supervenes ; while the attraction when it exists unalloyed with any other substance , and when its molecules are hence much nearer to each other , raises the point of commencement of change C. higher , viz. : to 14 C. 16 .
The same result was looked for in the case of the copper-silver iodide alloys , but it was not found .
The temperature at which contraction commences was in all cases raised , instead of being lowered , so that the presence of the iodide of copper hinders the assimilation of molecular motion by the molecules , although the coefficient of expansion of the iodide of copper is lower than that of either the chloride or bromide of silver , or of the iodide of lead which enter into the composition of the other alloys .
Percentage of iodide of copper in the silver-copper iodide aloys .
61.7767 Temperature at which expansion on heating finishes .
C. C. C. C. HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
But the contraction did not begin when the expansion ceased ; the mass simply absorbed heat without undergoing change of volume through a varying range of degrees , which removes the point of contraction still further from that of the iodide of silver .
Thus , while in the case of the chlorobromiodide of silver containing only per cent. of iodide of silver , and of the lead-silver iodide alloy containing per cent. , the contraction commenced at 1 C. , the following temperatures were those at which the contraction commenced in the case of the copper-silver iodide alloys contaimng in all cases more iodide of silver than either of the alloys mentioned above:\mdash ; Percentage of Temperature at which contraction iodide of silver .
on heating commenced . .
23 . . . .
Thus the eiiect of per cent. of ioclide of copper was to raise the point at which the iodide of silver commences to pass from the crystalline to the amorphous condition 14 C. , viz. : from 14 C. to 28 C. ; and the influence of of iodide of copper was sufficient to raise the temperature of the point of change to C. , while the presence of per cent. of iodide of lead , and of 74 per cent. of chloride and bromide of silver , not only did not raise the temperature at which contraction commences , but lowered it C. When percentage of iodide of silver in the copper-silver iodide alloys was very considerable the temperature at which contraction commenced fell to 15 C. 17 .
This difference in the commencement of the period of contraction on heating would lead us to look for differences of structure in the case of those alloys which begin to contract at C. , and those in which the contraction is masked and annulJed until a higher temperature is attained .
Such differences we have no difficulty in finding .
If we compare the lead-silver iodide alloy , , previously described , which contains per cent. of iodide of silver , with the copper- silver iodide alloy , , which contains per cent. of iodide of silver , and which , hence , most nearly approaches it in composition , the differences are very conspicuous .
is crystalline in structure , and in cooling it expands considerably and breaks the tube in which it is cast .
Harsh noises are emitted during cooling , and strong tremors are propagated through the mass .
The expansion of the alloy ceases at 11 C. , contraction commences at and continues to C. rapidly , almost equalling that of iodide of silver itself ; the mass decreasing in volume to 984120 .
is resinous in structure , and in cooling it contracts considerab]y , and comes out of the tube in which it is cast .
No harsh sounds are emitted during cooling , and no tremors are propagated through the mass .
The expansion of the alloy ceases at at 28 C. , and volume at 30 C. when the contraction is finished 18 .
The microscope , when applied to the examination of thin layers , also shows differences .
in a thin layer is opaque owing to the presence of multitudes of small crystals .
is transparent .
It would therefore appear that the presence of the has prevented the iodide of silver from changing from the amorphous plastic condition to the crystalline condition : a change which , as above stated , is usually accomplished at C. 19 .
The researches of petrologists in connexion with the examination of thin slices of minerals under the microscope , have shown that if rocks be fused and suddenly cooled no structure is developed , while , if slowly cooled , they not only become crystalline , but may be built up entirely of crystals .
Thus basalt perfectly fused and suddenly cooled in water forms a black glass , which exhibits no structure under the highest power .
Less rapid cooling develops microliths or crystallites , and as the cooling is still further retarded the microliths group themselves into gem-like forms , into radial forms about a centre , into small definite crystals , and into large definite crystals .
Thus the glassy basalt or tachylyte , passes into ordinary basalt ; and the ordinary basalt , into the highly crystallised gabbro .
Also it is noted that the specific gravity increases as the crystalline structure is more and more developed .
Thus glassy basalt has a lower specific gravity than basalt , and the latter than gabbro .
We are ] very familiar with the difference in the size of the crystals of any substance which separates out from solution if the.evaporation be rapid or slow .
Now above C. corresponds to the glassy basalt .
below , , , , gabbro .
Or octohedral sulphur corresponds to the gabbro .
, , plastic , , , , , , tachylyte .
The orystals of felspar , quartz , \amp ; c. , doubtless separate out from solution in the mass of the mineral , as a soluble salt separates from its solution in water .
20 .
We have obviously to deal with\mdash ; ( a ) The crystalline forces which tend to build up the substance into crystals .
( b ) The force of cohesion exerted by the crystals whether microliths or Iarge crystals for each other .
( c ) The attraction subsisting between the surrounding mass or medium and the crystals .
On the other hand we have the molecular motion tending to disunite them .
HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , MERCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
1165 21 .
It would therefore appear that in the case of the lead-silver iodide alloy , , the ground mass of , with which the iodide of silver is surrounded , offers no opposition to the passage of the iodide from the plastic to the crystalline condition , but rather , by separating the crystals from the influence of their own attraction , promotes it .
While , on the other hand , that in the case of the coppersilver iodide alloy the ground mass of ) , by its attraction or by other influence , prevents the passage of the iodide of silver from the plastic to the crystalline condition , or at least considerably hinders it , and allows it only to take place at a temperature far above the usual point , or when the percentage of iodide of silver is so considerable that the adverse influence of the is overcome , as in the last alloy containing 88 per cent. of 22 .
If a small thin layer of sulphur be melted on a piece of mica and suddenly cooled in cold water , and placed under the microscope , it is seen to be perfectly transparent ; gradually , as we watch it from day to day , crystals are seen forming themselves out of the ground mass , and these increase rather in number than in size , until the whole is converted into a crystalline opaque brittle mass .
In this case molecular motion being , as we know , slowly lost , the crystalline forces become more and more able to build up crystals out of the ground mass .
On the other hand , if a thin layer of iodide of silver be melted on a slip of mica , and placed , while in the plastic condition , under the microscope , it is seen to be transparent , but at the moment when the temperature sinks to C. the mass suddenly crystallises all over .
Between these two extremes we , of course , have instances in which bhe passage from the amorphous to the crystalline state takes place with greater or lesser readiness .
If iodide of lead be fused on a piece of mica , and placed under the microscope , it is seen to crystallise rapidly , and it presents the appearance of crystalline plates with numerous veined markings ( fig. 7 ) .
When alloyed with iodide of silver the mass is seen to be made up of a multitude of small tabular crystals ( fig. 8 ) , altogether different from either the iodide of lead , or the iodide of silver when similarly and separately treated .
The copper-silver iodide ] loys ( except when the percentage of iodide of silver is very large ) present the network appearance under the microscope shown in fig. 9 .
They are transparent moreover in thin layers , and translucent in thicker layers , while the chlorobromiodides , and the iodide of lead , and the lead-silver iodide alloy are opaque from the presence of multitudes of crystals .
23 .
It is conceivable that the iodide of lead possesses so strong a tendency to crystallise , and so little attraction for the molecules of iodide of silver , that it in no way interferes with the crystallisation of the latter ; while the iodide of copper may possess but little tendency to crystallise itself and considerable attraction for the iodide of silver homogeneously diffused throughout .
Or , in the one case we may have an actual chemical attraction of the molecule of the one iodide for that of the other ; LOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , RCURY , LEAD , AND COPPER .
25 .
The effect of the addition of the second molecule of , raising the percentage to , has been\mdash ; To diminish the coefficient of expansion below 22 C. to 00003750 .
( b ) To annul the expansion between 22 C. and C. ( c ) To produce contraction on heating between 23 C. and 29 C. , .
: through C. ( d ) To augment slightly the coefficient of expansion above C. , : from 00007317 to 00009474 .
26 .
The addition of the third molecule of in raises the percentage of iodide of silver to , and the effect has been\mdash ; To diminish the coefficient of expansion below C. to 00002307 , and between 17 C. and 19 C. to 00001285 .
( b ) To annul the expansion between 19 C. and 21 C. ( c ) To produce contraction on heating between 21 C. and 28 C. , .
: through C. ( d ) To augment to the same extent as the preceding the coefficient of expansion above 28 C. , viz. : from00007317 to 00009474 .
It will be noticed in the case of this alloy , which differs from the preceding one by containing nearly 10 per cent. more of iodide of silver and nearly 10 per cent. less of iodide of copper that the contraction takes place through the same range of tempelature beginning , however , lower ; ( 2 ) that the coefficient of expansion above the point at which contraction finishes is the same ; ( 3 ) that the specific gravity and fusing point are practically the same .
In fact , the almost sole effect of the additional 10 per cent. of iodide of silver has been to increase the coefficient of contraction between 21 C. and 28 C. 27 .
The addition of the fourth molecule of in raises the percentage of to , and the effect has been\mdash ; To diminish the coefficient of expansion below C. to 00001999 , and between C. and 18 C. to 00001056 .
( b ) To annul the coefficient of expansion between 18 C. and C. ( c ) To produce contraction on heating between 19 C. and 28 C. , .
: C. ( d ) To augment more than two-fold the coefficient of expansion above 28 C. , : from .
to 0002050 .
28 .
The addition of the twelfth molecule of in raised the percentage of to , and , as might be expected , altered the character of the alloy from that of the preceding , approximating it more to the iodide of silver , and diminishing the influence of the iodide of copper .
The effect has been\mdash ; E'FFECTS OF ItEAT ON HALOID COMPOUNDS OF SILVER , To diminish the coefficient of expansion below 12 C. to00000636 .
( b ) To annul the coefficient of expansion between 12 C. and 15 C. ( c ) To produce contraction on heating between 15 C. and 22 C. , .
: through C. ( d ) To produce a coefficient of expansion above 22 C. almost identical with that of iodide of silver .
Plate 96 shows the effects of heat upon the copper-silver iodide aloys .
Professor M. BELLATI and Dr. R. ROMANESE , of the University of have lately determined the specific heat , and heat of transformation , of the iodide of silver and the copper-silver iodides above described , usin for their determinations the same specimens as those with which I worked , and which were forwarded to Padua at their request .
Their results are given in this volume ( page 1169 ) .
I beg to express my indebtedness to the Royal Society for several grants which it has allowed for the prosecution of these researches .

