I. " On the Anatomy of the Fovea centralis of the Human Retina .
" By J. W. HULKE , F.R.C.S. , Assistant Surgeon to the Middlesex and Royal London Ophthalmic Hospitals .
Communicated by WM .
BOWMAN , Esq. Received May 26 , 1866 .
( Abstract ) .
1 .
The Fovea centralis is a minute circular pit in the inner surface of the retina , made by the radial divergence of the cone-fibres from a central point , by the thinning and the outward curving of the inner retinal layers towards this point , and by the peripheral location of the outer granules belonging to the central cones .
2 .
The inner surface of the retina declines in a rapid uniform curve from the edge to the centre of the fovea , and very gradually from the edge towards the ora retine ; so that the edge of the fovea is the most raised part in the macula lutea , where the retina is thickest , and the centre of the fovea the most depressed part in the macula , where the retina is thinnest .
3 .
At the centre of the fovea , proceeding from the outer to the inner surface of the retina , we meet with the following structures in succession:the bacillary layer and the outer limiting membrane , a small quantity of finely areolated connective tissue , the inner granule-layer and the ganglionic layer very attenuated , a thin granular band containing optic nerve-fibres , and the membrana limitans interna .
189 4 .
The bacillary layer contains only cones in the fovea , but rods in addition towards the periphery of the macula lutea .
5 .
The cones and rods in the macula are longer and more slender than at a distance from it .
Although the greater slenderness is more apparent in the cones , yet the most slender cones are stouter than the rods .
6 .
In both cones and rods an inner and an outer segment are discernible , and both segments consist of a sheathing membrane and contents .
In the outer segment the contents do not exhibit any indication of structure .
The inner segment , where its dimensions permit , contains an " outer granule , " and is always produced in the form of a fibre , which connects the cones and rods with the inner layers .
These I have called the primitive coneand rod-fibres , collectively primitive bacillary fibres .
( K6lliker , in the last edition of his ' Handbuch der Gewebelehre , ' restricts to these the term " Miller'sfibres , " which was originally exclusively , and is still very generally given to the vertically radial connectivetissue fibres first described by H. Miuller .
) 7 .
An outer granule is intercalated in each primitive bacillary fibre , 1st , where the inner bacillary segment is too slender to include the granule , and , 2nd , where the segment is associated with a distant granule .
This kind of connexion always obtains with the rods , and with the cones at the centre of the fovea .
The outer granules which belong to the rods are not distinguished from those which belong to the cones by any constant characters .
8 .
The primitive bacillary fibres run obliquely from the outer towards the inner surface of the retina , and radially from the centre of the fovea towards the periphery of the macula lutea .
9 .
They form a very conspicuous obliquely fibrillated band , lying between the outer and the inner granule-layers , in which the primitive fibres combine in bundles which have a plexiform arrangement .
This band corresponds to that band which in the chameleon 's retina I called the conefibre plexus .
Muiller and K6lliker call it the intergranule-layer .
10 .
Between the inner surface of this layer and the inner granule-layer , there is a thin granular band of finely areolated connective tissue , through which the bacillary fibres pass into the inner granule-layer .
It is in part derived from the terminal divisions of the vertically radial connective-tissue fibres , and it answers to the band which in the chameleon I termed the intergranule-layer .
11 .
In the inner granule-layer two kinds of granules are distinguishable , nuclei and nucleated cells .
Both are in connexion with the oblique bacillary fibres , which in this situation are exceedingly delicate , and require a high magnifying power and a good section for their demonstration .
12 .
The connective-tissue fibres ( generally known as Muller 's radial fibres ) , which traverse the retina in a vertically radial direction from the membrana limitans interna towards the outer surface , are very conspicuous in the inner layers , where in sections transverse to the direction of the optic nerve-fibres they are arranged in arcades , which contain the lastnamed fibres and the ganglion-cells imbedded in a granular matrix of finely woven connective tissue .
They are less visible in the outer layers , apparently because many of their terminal divisions lose themselves in the ( connective tissue ) intergranule-layer ; and hence the decussation of the oblique bacillary and the vertically radial connective-tissue fibres within the cone-fibre plexus , so conspicuous in the chameleon , is scarcely noticeable in the human retina .
Deductions .
1 .
Since the total of the effects of light upon living tissue will be greater as the extent of tissue traversed by it is greater , and since the relative common sensitiveness of a surface varies with the number of distinct sentient elements it contains , it follows that the greater length of the cones and rods , and their greater slenderness , which allows a larger number of them to the superficial unit , are in harmony with the greater sensitiveness of the retina at the macula lutea .
Inasmuch , however , as the foveal cones are stouter than the rods , a superficial unit at the centre of the fovea contains fewer sentient ( i.e. percipient ) elements than the same unit near the periphery of the macula lutea ; and on this ground the sensitiveness of the retina at the fovea should be less than that of the retina near the periphery of the macula .
On the other hand , the extreme thinness of the inner layers of the retina at the centre of the fovea , places the bacillary layer here most favourably for receiving incident light .
2 .
The division of the rods and cones into an outer and an inner segment is natural .
The facts in support of this are , the presence of the division in perfectly fresh specimens ; its sharpness and constant occurrence at a definite place ; the constantly rectilinear figure of the outer , and the curvilinear figure of the inner segment ; the different refractive powers of the segments ; and their different behaviour towards staining and chemical solutions .
3 .
From these structural differences it is a fair inference that the segments have different physiological meanings .
The higher refractive power , straight sides , and slender cylindrical or prismatic figure of the outer segment may be adaptations for confining within the segment light incident upon its ends , and for preventing the lateral escape of light through the sides of the segment into neighbouring cones and rods .
These considerations incline me to adopt the opinion that this segment has an optical function , an opinion which derives further support from the fact that , in those animals in which the segment is so wide a cylinder that a ray might be incident upon the inner surface of its sides at a small enough angle not to be reflected but to pass out , the segment is insulated by a sheath of black pigment .
The inner segments of the cones and rods are the specially modified peripheral terminations of the optic nerve-fibres ; and at their junction with the outer segment the conversion of light into nerve-force may take place .
4 .
The outer granules being the nuclei of the inner coneand rod-segments , probably maintain the integrity of these as living tissues , and are not directly concerned in their specific functions as organs of perception .
5 .
The primitive bacillary fibres are the link by which the cones and rods communn icate through the inner granules and ganglion-cells with the optic nerve-fibres .
6 .
The smaller inner granules are nuclei of the oblique bacillary fibres in the inner granule-layer ; or they may be small bipolar ganglion-cells , and act specifically on the forces transmitted through the oblique fibres from the cones and rods .
The larger inner granules not being distinguishable by any definite structural characters from the smaller cells of the ganglionic layer , may agree with these latter cells in function .
7 .
Since the ganglion-cells ( of the ganglionic layer ) are fewer than the inner granules , and much fewer than the cones and rods , and since it is probable that these latter communicate with the optic nerve-fibres only through the ganglion-cells , it follows that one ganglion-cell probably is in correspondence with more than one inner granule and with several cones and rods .
From this it is not an improbable conjecture that the cones and rods are disposed in groups , each of which is represented by one or more ganglion-cells thef unction of which is to connect or coordinate the individual action of the separate bacillary elements in their groups .
in a manner analogous to that attributed to the ganglion-cells of the spinal cord by Van der Kolk* .
8 .
There is a close general resemblance between the human fovea and that of the chameleon t.

