199 878 .
] On the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
j SirW .
Thomson 's statical theory , in the proportion of 1 +\#151 ; 150(r+g ) o unity , where v is the speed of the tide , and r is the quantity defined a Thomson and Tait 's Not .
Phil. , S 840 ( 28 ) , viz. , _12_x the coeffi5wa* ient of rigidity .
The last part of the paper contains a discussion of results , and a ion-mathematical summary of what precedes .
[ V. " On the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
" By Arthur Downes , M.D. , and Thomas P. Blunt , M.A. Oxon .
Communicated by J. Marshall , F.R.S. , Surgeon to University College Hospital .
Received October 9 , 1878 .
This paper is in continuation of , and supplementary to , a previous communication* in which we recorded the first part of an investigation on the effect of light upon Bacteria and other organisms associated with putrefaction and decay .
The chief conclusions to which those observations led us were briefly as follow:\#151 ; ( l. ) Light is inimical to , and under favourable conditions may wholly prevent , the development of these organisms ; its action on Bacteria being more energetic than upon the mycelial ( and torulaceous ) fungi which are prone to appear in cultivation-fluids .
( 2 .
) The fitness of the cultivation-fluid as a nidus is not impaired by insolation .
We found also that tubes , containing a cultivation-fluid and plugged with cotton-wool , when removed to a dark place after exposure to the sun for a sufficient period , remained perfectly clear and free from organisms for months , and we naturally thought that the contents had been reduced to permanent sterility .
The following facts , however , compel us to suspend for the present %\#169 ; ur conclusions on this point .
Of the many tubes which we insolated last year we finally kept only three .
Two of these\#151 ; containing Pasteur solution of the composition given in our former paper\#151 ; had been exposed to sunlight for three weeks in June , 1877 ; the third tube contained urine and had been insolated for about two months\#151 ; commencing July 26th .
In each case corresponding tubes which were covered with laminated lead , so as to exclude light , had swarmed with Bacteria in the course of two or three days , but the three tubes of which we speak not only were perfectly pellucid at the time they were removed from the light but , although kept in a warm room , remained clear all through the winter .
On February 25th , 1878 , however , \#151 ; eight months after we had placed * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvi , p. 488 .
200 Messrs. A. Downes and T. P. Blnnt on [ Dec. 19 them in darkness\#151 ; the two tubes of Pasteur solution each contained several tiny specks of mycelium .
One of the two was on this again exposed to sunlight , and in it the mycelial development was at once stopped ; the other tube was left in the dark and the fungus gradually grew till it filled the whole space of the liquid , which on microscopical examination was found to contain no other organisms .
The tube of urine remained clear till July 15 th , 1878 , \#151 ; nearly ten months after incasement , \#151 ; on which date two specks of mycelium appeared , and subsequently developed as in the previous case .
No Bacteria could be seen on examination with an immersion yy " .
It is noteworthy that a companion tube to this which was incased after six days of insolation had developed a growth of mycelium in three or four days .
It would seem that in the three tubes above mentioned ^ or their " germs , " had been either wholly destroyed or reduced to so low a state of vitality that they were unable to develope in the fluids in question ; while it is evident that the spores of the mould which at length appeared , unless they had been accidentally shaken down from the cotton-wool plugging the tubes , had undergone some change which reduced them to a condition of torpidity from which in process of time they emerged .
Such a condition , we may perhaps conceive , might be brought about by any influence causing thickening of the cell-wall of the spore .
We hope at a future time to offer some further evidence on this question of revival of dormant germs , which is , we , think , of much interest .
Prom a very early period of our inquiry we have set ourselves to the task of investigating the intimate nature of the remarkable action of light upon these organisms , and we have arrived , as we believe , at a satisfactory solution of the problem , but in the first place it will be well to describe some preliminary experiments .
An interesting point to be determined was the question , \#151 ; with what part of the spectrum is this property of light associated .
The observations made by us last year indicated that the rays of greatest refrangibility were the most active , but the experiments then made did not warrant any definite conclusions as to the part played by rays of lower refrangibility .
The method employed in the more recent experiments was similar to that described in our former paper:\#151 ; Small test-tubes containing the cultivation-fluid were suspended in deep narrow boxes made of garnet-red , yellow , blue , and ordinary glass respectively .
Each box held about six test-tubes , and corresponding series were incased in laminated lead .
A spectroscopic examination of the glass of which these boxes were constructed showed that the yellow and blue were far from being monochromatic .
The red was an excellent glass for the purpose .
[ 378 .
] the Influence of Light upon .
201 The rays which were found to pass through each glass respectively ire given below .
Blue.\#151 ; Violet , blue , some green , broad band in yellow-green , very narrow band in ultra-red .
Yellow.\#151 ; The whole spectrum , except violet and about half the blue .
Bed.\#151 ; Red , orange-red .
All other rays entirely absorbed .
The mean of a number of observations as to temperature showed that , at the point at which we worked , viz. , 70'\#151 ; 80 ' F. , the thermometer in the red box stood about 2 ' F. higher than in the lead-incased tubes ; between the blue , yellow , and ordinary glass boxes there was but little difference , the blue being about half a degree warmer than the last named .
We showed in our former communication that by increasing the density of our cultivation-liquid the development of Bacteria could be proportionately delayed .
In this way we have been able to accentuate the differences in the behaviour of the solutions under varying conditions of light .
Without detailing all the experiments , we may say that the first tubes to become turbid were the lead-incased ; the next , usually in from 24\#151 ; 48 hours subsequently , the red , followed shortly by the yellow ; * white and blue surviving .
The organisms which first appeared in the lead-incased and red were always Bacteria ; in the yellow , usually , or mycelium , with more or less Bacteria , \#151 ; rarely Bacteria alone ; if organisms appeared in the blue or ordinary glass they were torulaceous .
Although the blue and yellow glasses were not monochromatic , we think that these results give important indications .
That the action is chiefly dependent on the blue and violet rays is shown by the great difference , as compared with those in the blue box , in the behaviour of the tubes in the yellow , in which , as we have already stated , the only rays of the spectrum not admitted were the violet and part of the blue .
Moreover , the fact that when the 'eultivation-fluid is of sufficient concentration the red ( although the warmer ) survives the lead-incased shows , we think , that the red and orange-red rays are not altogether inactive .
It is probable therefore that , if the phenomena were represented by a curve , the maximum elevation would be found in or near the violet , a rapid descent occurring in the blue or green , after which the line of the curve is maintained more or less as far as the visible red .
The experiments next to be detailed bear upon the part played by the cultivation-fluid in the phenomena under consideration .
We had * The only instance out of a large number of observations , in which yellow broke down before red , happens to be the experiment described in our former communication .
Messrs. A. Downs and T. P. Blnnt on [ Dec. 19 , shown , in our previous paper , that the liquid in tubes which under insolation had remained barren was , nevertheless , not impaired as a nidus for development , for , on removing them to a dark place and inoculating with a drop of ordinary water , they soon teemed with vigorous bacterial life ; the same experiment showing that the survival of the spores of mycelial fungi , as compared with , was not due to any change in the cultivation-fluid rendering it noxious to the latter , but not to the former .
At the same time , though this was not probable , there might have been a temporary and transient action dependent on some constituent of the cultivation-fluid .
We determined , therefore , to render the conditions as simple as possible .
It is well known that all ordinary water , even distilled , teems with the " germs " \#151 ; actual or potential\#151 ; of various forms of .
life .
We wished to ascertain whether or no sunlight would impair the vitality of , or destroy , " germs " existing in ordinary distilled water .
We made a number of glass bulbs , of the shape shown in fig. 1 ?
into each was introduced a measured quantity of a very concentrated the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
878 .
] *asteur solution , previously boiled ; one end of each was then sealed , ''hey were then placed in a water-bath , with the unsealed end project-ng above the water , and after prolonged and repeated boiling this nd also was sealed .
The sealed bulbs were then thoroughly washed with distilled water , to remove all traces of Pasteur solution from their jxternal surfaces , and were each finally sealed up in a tube ( fig. 2 ) containing distilled water in such proportion that , when the bulbs vere subsequently broken , the mixture produced a fluid of the ordinary strength .
Four were encased in laminated lead and five insolated .
To prove that the water employed was capable of setting up bacterial or other development , a number of tubes containing Pasteur solution sterilised by repeated boiling and plugged with cotton wool were divided into two series ; to each tube of the one set a few drops of the water were added with a superheated pipette ; to the second series no water was added , but , in order to place them under the same conditions , the superheated pipette was successively dipped into each .
All of the series inoculated with water speedily teemed with Bacteria ; the second series remained clear .
The experiment commenced on April 3rd .
About the end of May , the bulb in one of the insolated tubes was accidentally broken , so that the concentrated Pasteur solution of the bulb mingled with the distilled water of the tube .
In a few days the mixture became turbid with Bacteria and Torula .
We shall again refer to the behaviour of this tube .
The remaining bulbs were broken towards the-close of July by jerking them against the ends of the tubes .
The result was that , with one exception , the mixture in the tubes which had been insolated has remained clear to the date of writing ( September 1st ) , but in each instance the encased tubes became turbid with organisms .
In the single insolated tube which broke down nothing could be seen on careful examination with If ' but round-celled there was a complete absence of all bacteri\amp ; jd life .
The encased tubes all contained Torula , Bacilli , Bacteria , in active movement , and , in two instances , a number of short , squarish , highly refractive particles .
It is evident , therefore , that light is injurious to " germs , " even when contained in ordinary distilled water .
There is , however , an important fact in connexion with this which must not pass unnoticed .
We have described how a tube in which the bulb had accidentally been broken after exposure to sunlight for six or seven weeks , in April and May\gt ; speedily teemed with Bacteria .
It happens that , during portions of this time , we had insolated tubes , containing ordinary Pasteur solution , with the result that all bacterial development was prevented by a few days ' exposure to the sun , and organisms , if they appeared after the tubes had been encased , were torulaceous or mycelial* There 204 ' Messrs. A. Downs and T. P. Blunt on .[Dec .
19 , appears , therefore , to be a remarkable difference in the rate of action of light on the germs of Bacteria in water , as compared with its effect on corresponding " germs " in the cultivation-fluid ; insolation of , say a week , accomplishing , in the latter case , what nearly two months failed to do in the former .
The most reasonable explanation to our minds is the following:\#151 ; In water destitute of organic matter the " germs " are deprived of the nourishment essential for their growth and development\#151 ; they are starved ; under these conditions their protoplasm reverts to a state of rest and stability , contrasting with that condition of instability which the exhibition of vital energy implies .
Possibly they become encysted , the outer portion of the protoplasm being devitalised and protecting the central speck , which may be said to exist rather than to live .
When , however , the " germ " finds suitable nourishment , the protoplasm takes on a higher state of activity and , therefore , of instability , and we believe that this instability of protoplasm favours the action upon it of light , but that in a condition of dormant vitality it is less susceptible .
Numerous other observations of similar character , which we need not here detail , gave the same results , and the following simple experiment , repeatedly confirmed , indicates the germicidal action of light when no water , other than the ordinary moisture in air , is present:\#151 ; April 15 th .
Pour test-tubes are rinsed out with tap-water , inverted to allow the moisture to drain off , and plugged with cotton-wool .
Two are covered with 'laminated lead , and two insolated in the usual way .
( Corresponding tubes , charged with Pasteur solution previously sterilised by boiling , speedily became turbid with Bacteria .
) May 1$\#163 ; .
The four tubes are charged with sterilised Pasteur solution .
In about a fortnight the lead-incased tubes both became turbid , * but the liquid in the insolated tubes was still clear on July 16th .
We now proceed to give an account of experiments which bear more directly on the intimate nature of the action under consideration .
Prom an early stage in the investigation we felt that the best way of approaching the problem was by examining the behaviour of organic bodies generally when exposed to sunlight .
Taking , in the first instance , the comparatively simple molecule of oxalic acid as the subject of our experiment , we found that a decinormal solution ( *63 per cent. ) was entirely decomposed by sunlight .
It was obviously important to ascertain what was the nature of the decomposition , i.e. , whether it were a disintegration of the molecule into water , carbonic acid , and * Subsequent microscopical examination showed that this was due in the one case to a species of Sarcina , in the other to Ba , which did not , however , take on a very vigorous development .
878 .
] Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
205 irbonic oxide , or an oxidation resulting in water and carbonic acid lone .
We found that whether oxygen was removed by exhaustion at the prengel pump , or by boiling the solution and inverting in mercury dthout access of air , decomposition was alike prevented .
It was evi-ent , therefore , that oxygen was the agent of destruction under the ifluence of sunlight , for of course the nitrogen of the air may be put ut of the question .
We next experimented on a representative of a most interesting lass of bodies , which in the complexity of their composition probably ipproach protoplasm itself .
We refer to the so-called soluble or indict ferments , of which we selected , the soluble ferment of feast , as a type .
We noticed last year that sunlight had no retarding effect on the iction of this class of ferments , but we did not then investigate the effect of prolonged insolation on the ferment itself .
Accordingly , on June 25th , some water in which a fragment of yeast had been macerated was thrice passed through double layers of the finest filtering paper .
Examined under the microscope , the liquid , which was quite clear , was found to contain no trace of Torula .
Salt was then added to saturation , in order to avoid putrefaction , and the solution was divided between two series of test-tubes , one series being insolated , and the other encased in the usual way .
On July 19th about three drachms of freshly made syrup was placed in each of a number of eprouvettes .
These were divided into two sets ; to one set was added five grain-measures of the insolated zymase solution , and to the other a corresponding quantity from the encased tubes ; a watch-glass was placed over each , and they were left for some hours .
At the end of this time , five grain-measures of the syrup to which zymase from the encased tubes had been added completely reduced an equal quantity of a Fehling 's solution , while no perceptible change was caused by the syrup which had been treated with insolated zymase .
It is clear , therefore , that sunlight destroys the specific power of this ferment for hydrating cane-sugar .
We next experimented on zymase in vacuo .
On August 16th a solution of the ferment , prepared in the same way as before , was divided between eight tubes , two of which were insolated and two encased .
The remaining four were simultaneously* exhausted at the Sprengel pump and sealed .
The contents gave a sharp " water-hammer " click , bearing testimony to the excellence of the vacuum .
Two of these tubes were insolated and two encased .
On September 5th , eight eprouvettes of fresh syrup were inoculated with liquid from each tube as before , and allowed to stand overnight , a * See Appendix .
Messrs. A. Downs and T. P. Blunt on [ Dec. 19 .
corresponding quantity of uninoculated syrup being kept to ascertain if any hydration occurred spontaneously .
September 6th.\#151 ; The uninoculated syrup has no perceptible reducing action on Fehling 's solution , but the contents of all the vacuum-tubes , whether insolated or incased , have produced hydration of the cane-sugar , and there is no practical difference between their effect\#151 ; as measured by Fehling 's solution\#151 ; and that of the non-Sprengelised zymase preserved in the dark .
At the same time the corresponding solutions of zymase insolated without previous exhaustion have very feeble action indeed .
We conclude , therefore , that , as in the case of the oxalic acid , the destructive action of light is by oxidation , for while the- zymase exposed to light and air was greatly enfeebled , a similar solution in vacuo , although equally insolated , retained its energy apparently unimpaired.* In proceeding to investigate the nature of the action of light upon living organisms , we were met by difficulties , arising from the relation of these organisms to oxygen , which for some time baffled our research ; but these difficulties we have , we believe , sufficiently overcome to be enabled to indicate the fundamental identity of the action of light upon living organisms and upon the typical non-vitalised organic substances selected for our previous experiments .
In a postscript appended to our previous communication we stated that in sealed tubes containing urine , which had been exhausted at a Sprengel pump , organisms appeared in incased and insolated tubes alike .
We have made many repetitions of these experiments , and we have invariably found that , whenever organisms appeared in the incased exhausted tubes , they were simultaneously present ir equal amount and vigour in the insolated , contrasting with the difference in behaviour between corresponding insolated and incased non-exhausted tubes .
It seemed , therefore , that in absence of an atmosphere , light ( notwithstanding the manifest enfeeblement of life brought about by the * It was our original intention to examine a large number of organic bodies , and to ascertain to what extent this phenomenon of oxidation under sunlight occurred in different classes of organic compounds .
The recent researches of M. Chastaing ( " Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. , " [ 5 ] , t. xi ) have anticipated us in this .
M. Chastaing experimented on such organic compounds as essence of turpentine , essence of lemon , ether , oils , \amp ; c. , all of which were oxidised in sunlight , the oxidation occurring in all parts of the visible spectrum , but having a maximum in violet and a minimum in red . .
It is noteworthy to observe how this distribution of the function of oxidation of these substances in the spectrum , according to M. Chastaing , corresponds with that assigned by ourselves on entirely independent grounds to the destructive action of light on Bacteria .
We should have stated , also , that , according to our experiments , the oxidation of oxalic acid was very active behind blue glass , but feeble behind red .
878 .
] the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
207 ithdrawal of air ) failed entirely to produce any effect on such rganisms as were able to appear.* Experiments in which nitrogen was admitted into the exhausted ibes before they were sealed gave similar results .
The obvious inference that the presence of oxygen is essential to this 3tion of light is confirmed by the following experiment\#151 ; many times epeated\#151 ; showing that the effect is in direct relation to the proportion f free oxygen :\#151 ; A Pasteur solution of half the strength given in our former paper , nd therefore , for reasons stated in that paper , difficult to sterilise by isolation , was divided between six tubes .
Two of these were simply sealed , and therefore contained an atmo-phere of ordinary air .
Two were exhausted at the Sprengel pump till the gauge stood at a teight of 22 inches , when , by means of the apparatus described in the Appendix , nitrogen was admitted , and the tubes being sealed , consequently only contained about one-twentieth of oxygen in their atmospheres .
The remaining two tubes were exhausted thoroughly and pure oxygen admitted in the same manner as the nitrogen .
One tube of each series was encased in laminated lead , the companion tube being insolated .
In two days all the encased tubes were equally turbid with Bacteria .
In two days more the insolated tube , with J^th oxygen atmosphere , was turbid with Torula and Bacteria .
Next day after this , the insolated tube , with an atmosphere of ordinary air , became hazy with Bacteria .
The tube , with an atmosphere of pure oxygen , remained unchanged for some days later , when a deposit of Torula commenced to form at the bottom .
We conclude , therefore^ both from analogy and from direct experiment , that the observed action on these organisms is not dependent on light per se , but that the presence of free oxygen is necessary ; light and oxygen together accomplishing wBat neither can do alone : and the inference seems irresistible that the effect produced is a gradual oxidation of the constituent protoplasm of these organisms , and that , in this respect , protoplasm , although living , is not exempt from laws which appear to govern the relations of light and oxygen to forms of matter less highly endowed.f A force , which is indirectly absolutely * The commonest form of organism in these exhausted tubes consisted of filaments of varying length , ranging perhaps from swto sijo " , often curvilinear , composed of minute spherules in linear series , with motion usually vibratory and undulating , frequently progressive .
t That the amount of free oxygen present need not be large to produce a definite action upon Bacteria is shown by the fact that tubes containing Pasteur solution with a supernatant layer of vaseline , excluding all air , except that previously dissolved in the solution , if encased , in a few days become turbid , but may be kept clear for Messrs. A. Downs and T. P. Blunt on [ Dec. V essential to life as we know it , and matter , in the absence of which life has not yet been proved to exist , here unite for its destruction .
The organisms ( Bacteria ) on which we have mainly experiments in their ordinary conditions of structure and development , afford a example of protoplasm in a simple and uncomplicated form , but would be unreasonable to suppose that this protoplasm is so essential !
different in its fundamental constitution from all other protoplast that here , and here only , is this special effect of light to be founc There are , indeed , many facts which prove the contrary , and indicat that we are dealing , not with a special and fortuitous phenomenon but with a general law .
But protoplasm may be very differently circumstanced in it relations both to light and oxygen , it may be protected .
Such pro tection may be afforded by :\#151 ; 1 .
Thickened , or opaque , cell-walls or envelopes .
2 .
Special colouring matters , which filter out the more injurious rays .
3 .
Aggregation of cells , whether free or combined into tissue , tht inner being protected by the external .
4 .
Relation of the protoplasm itself to oxygen .
The first three are sufficiently obvious , but , as regards the last-named condition of protection , a few words of explanation are necessary .
Protoplasm in its relation to oxygen varies widely .
In the vast majority of cases , oxygen in its free gaseous state , appears to be absolutely* essential for the development and reproduction of protoplasmic life , but the labours of Pasteur have sufficiently demonstrated the power of some organisms , living in absence of free oxygen , to take it from certain of its combinations .
During the present summer we have been continually troubled in our investigation by the fact , that either our materials , or the air in which we worked , had become infected with a species of small Torula .
Solutions exposed to sunlight would remain clear for a few days\#151 ; their incased companions in the meantime becoming turbid with ordinary Bacteria\#151 ; but slowly and gradually a deposit would form at the bottom of the solution , which , on examination , would prove to be the Torula in question .
Now , if we consider the rapidity with which Torula removes dissolved oxygen from water , * and the comparative slowness with which a considerable period by insolation .
This fact , as well as others , shows , by the way , that the action does not depend on ozone formed , as G-orup y. Besanez believes ( " Ann. Chem. Pharm. , " clxi , 232 ) is invariably the case when water evaporates .
We have , we may observe , never been able to detect the formation of active oxygen as ozone , or peroxide of hydrogen , in cultivation solutions or in water exposed to sunlight .
* Schiitzenberger , " Fermentation , " pp. 107 and 134 .
'78 .
] the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
209 vter dissolves that gas , we shall at once see that the Torula , deriving i respiratory oxygen from the sugar of the solution , is all this time ling comparatively in absence of free oxygen , and we understand ]w the relations of protoplasm to oxygen , by enabling it in some irms to be largely independent of the uncombined gas , may prove a , arce of protection against the oxidising action of light .
In some cases , indeed , the affinity of organisms for oxygen would \gt ; pear to be so great that , when presented to them in its gaseous and acombined state , it acts , not as a source of vital energy , but as a \gt ; ison , and we think that protoplasm will be found to possess varying agrees of tolerance of excess or deficiency of this element .
To some \gt ; rms of life , if Pasteur be right , oxygen is injurious even when iluted as in ordinary air , to others it is hurtful only when oxidation | quickened by some adjuvant force , as , for example , by light .
Inally , since light here acts as an oxidiser , it is conceivable that aere may exist sluggish forms of protoplasm , whose oxidising pro-esses , and , therefore , general growth and development , may be mourdbly augmented by a modified degree of light .
We are not of ur present knowledge , however , able to point to such.* In connexion with the subject of this paper , it is an interesting peculation whether any one of the constituent elements of organic jodies is specially subject to oxidation under light .
We seem to have Vbtained some glimpse of a possible answer to this question by a -'ew experiments upon the oxalates .
If the constitutional formula C\#151 ; O\#151 ; O\#151 ; H of oxalic acid be rightly represented thus , ||| , a mode of C\#151 ; O\#151 ; O\#151 ; H approach to the problem seems to be opened , for should we find on substituting some other element for the hydrogen that decomposition is no longer produced by light , the conclusion would seem inevitable that the destruction of the molecule of oxalic acid was effected through the oxidation of the hydrogen .
On July 26th a solution of neutral oblate of potash of decinormal strength was divided between a number of test-tubes , some of which we encased while some were insolated in the usual way .
At the ' same time a decinormal solution of oxalic acid was similarly treated .
August 26th .
The insolated oxalic acid solution is completely decomposed , but the encased oxalic acid solution is unaffected .
The solutions of oxalate of potash , both encased and insolated , remain quite unchanged , and are still neutral to test-paper .
* From what we have said , it would follow that the organisms most injuriously affected by light would be found to be those whose protoplasm is " unprotected , " having high affinities for oxygen , but yet for the most part requiring it uncombined , and at the same time being so minutely particulate as to offer in point of surface the greatest facility for access both of light and of oxygen , all of which conditions are exemplified by the ordinary forms of Bacteria .
Messrs. A. Downs and T. P. Blunt on [ Dec. 19 " We are justified , therefore , in concluding that , in this case at least the destruction of an organic body in light is due to the oxidation o its hydrogen .
Appendix .
Vacuum Apparatus.\#151 ; In conducting our experiments in vacuo , or ir a modified atmosphere , obtained by means of the Sprengel pump , ii was necessary to ensure that the tubes compared should he undei exactly similar conditions with regard to pressure ; and it seemed desirable , therefore , to exhaust the pairs , or double pairs , at one operation .
With this object an adapter was contrived , which , though simple in its construction , proved so efficient that it may be worth while to describe it in detail .
Fig- .
3.\#151 ; a , " shoulder .
" b , the point of sealing after exhaustion .
A piece of glass tubing , 1\#163 ; inches long , S inch in diameter , and open at both ends , which were slightly lipped , was fitted with two caoutchouc stoppers , one of which , pierced with a single hole , served for connexion 378 .
] the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm .
ith the entrance tube of the pump , while the other had bored in it \gt ; ur holes into which the ends of the experimental tubes were pushed ntil the " shoulder " ( see fig. 3 ) was firmly thrust against the india-abber .
All junctions were luted with viscid glycerine , and it was ound that a good vacuum could then be produced and maintained for considerable time .
In order conveniently to seal off the tubes they were again drawn ut below the shoulder , so that when complete they had the shape ; iven in the figure ( fig. 3 ) .
When atmospheres of special composition were required the mode if procedure was somewhat different ; one of .the four holes in the niter caoutchouc stopper was then appropriated to a gauge , formed of i , straight piece of tubing of sufficient length , dipping under mercury : nto another hole was fitted a glass tube to which was attached a piece )f india-rubber tubing with a clamp .
The pump was then worked mtil the gauge showed the required tension , when the gas was admitted rom a small gasholder by attaching the stop-cock of the gasholder to the india-rubber tubing and opening the clamp .
The nitrogen used was prepared by removing the oxygen from atmospheric air , either by the prolonged action of alkaline solution of pyrogallic acid , or , in some instances , by the combustion of phosphorus ; in the latter case the oxides of phosphorus were removed by agitating with solution of caustic potash .
Our oxygen was made by heating pure chlorate of potash alone in a tube of hard glass ; lest any trace of ozone or chlorine should be present the gas was slowly bubbled through solution of iodide of potash ; this precaution , however , appeared to be superfluous , the iodide solution remaining colourless .
Postscript .
Received October 18 , 1878 .
The oxidation of hydrogen by light , demonstrated in the case of oxalic acid , naturally suggests an inquiry into the deportment of oxygen towards hydrogen in sunlight under other conditions .
We have not , for the present at least , an opportunity of examining this question in the detail which it demands , but we think that it may be of interest to append to our paper the following brief observations .
One of the best known facts in the chemistry of light is the combination effected between chlorine and hydrogen , and in their behaviour towards hydrogen under the influence of light the halogens form an interesting series .
Thus , while chlorine and hydrogen unite explosively m sunlight , bromine and hydrogen are with difficulty , if at all , induced to combine , and iodine and hydrogen do not unite at all .
Again , water may be decomposed with the aid of sunlight both by chlorine* and by * Cl2 + H20=2HC1 + O. 212 Prof. J. Tyndall on the Influence exercised [ Dec. 19 j bromine , * but not by iodine .
Finally , while hydrochloric and hydro I bromic acid in aqueous solution each resist decomposition when in$olate\lt ; in the presence of free oxygen , it is known that hydriodic acid andei s like conditions is rapidly destroyed.f This destruction , according t( i our experiments , is promoted by all the rays , but is much less activ .
behind red glass than behind blue .
It occurs also , but more slowly i in the dark .
Here we appear to have a phenomenon analogous to the oxidation p j the hydrogen of oxalic acid .
The question arises how far a preliminary dissociation of the constituent atoms of the molecule may influence the reaction .
It has beer j clearly shown by M. Lemoinef that hydriodic acid gas is completelj : dissociated by light ; but the same observer states that in aqueous | solution no such dissociation in sunlight can be demonstrated\#151 ; a fad observed also by M. Berthelot .
It may be , however , that the phe- j nomena of dissociation and oxidation under light may go on side by side , the presence of oxygen promoting the splitting of hydriodic \gt ; acid by its determining affinity .
In like manner it may be that in the decomposition of oxalic acid the oxygen plays a similar part , determining the dissociation of C204.H2 , and replacing the dissociated radicle C204 .
The analogy of chlorine , however , leads us to the belief that , in its relations to hydrogen under the influence of light , oxygen may be classed with that element ; but the reactions above noted would seem to indicate that , under these conditions , its affinity for hydrogen is inferior to that of either chlorine or bromine .
S We would note also the following known reactions which oecur in air and sunlight : ( 1 .
) The decomposition of arsenamine with formation of water and deposition of arsenic .
( 2 .
) The absorption of oxygen by and precipitation of sulphur from sulphuretted hydrogen ; \#151 ; reactions which , although occurring in thei dark , are accelerated by sunlight .
Y. " Note on the Influence exercised by Light on Organic Infusions .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received December 17 , 1878 .
Early last June I took with me to the Alps 50 small hermetically sealed flasks containing infusion of cucumber , and 50 containing .
* Br2 + H20=2HBr+0 .
t 2HI + 0 = I3 + H20 .
X " Annales de Chim .
et de Phys. , " [ 5 ] , t. xi .
S Under ordinary conditions the direct combination of oxygen and hydrogen gases does not occur in sunlight . .

