1881 .
] Dr. Watney .
Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
11 IV .
" Further Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Thymus/ ' By Herbert Watney , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received August 26 , 1881 .
Ciliated epithelial cells are found in the thymus of the dog : this is not the case in quite young animals , but ciliated epithelium can always be demonstrated in the thymus of a dog over thirty months old , and often in those of much younger animals .
In the older dogs the ciliated cells are found lining cysts , and the cysts appeal to increase in size with the age of the animal .
The ciliated epithelial cells take origin from connective tissue corpuscles .
The connective tissue corpuscles forming the network in the medullary poition are in places massed together , forming concentric corpuscles of small size ; in these masses small cavities are formed , and the lining cells are transformed into ciliated cells .
In the thymus of the tortoise small cavities are found lined by columnar epithelium .
The epithelial cells arise from connective tissue corpuscles , the process being essentially the same as that just desci ibed in the dog .
The fluid in the lymphatic vessels leading from the thymus can be obtained by tying the vessels immediately after death .
The lymph thus obtained contains considerably more colourless corpuscles than the lymph of the large lymphatic vessels of the neck .
The blood in the veins passing from the thymus does not appear to differ from the blood of the jugular vein .
V. " Experimental Researches on the Propagation of Heat by Conduction in Bone , Brain-tissue , and Skin .
" By J. S. Lombard , M.D. , formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology in Harvard University .
Communicated by Dr. BROWN-Sequard , F.R.S. Received October 1 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments ( over 900 in number ) were made on the skull and long bones of sheep , the ribs of oxen , and on the brain and skin of sheep .
Thermo-electric apparatus was employed in the work .
The different tissues were thus prepared :\#151 ; In the case of bone , a fresh piece was ground smooth on one side , and the face of the thermopile accurately fitted to it ; then a thin coating of shellac varnish was applied to the surface of the bone and to the face of the pile , and firm pressure was maintained until the varnish was dry and permanent

