]\gt ; Scts in to of 319 " " Sets of Operations in tion to Groups of Finit Order By A. N. , Fellow of Trinity .
Communicated by 1rofessor A. B. eceived Jnary 2 , 1899 .
In The present paper is the Theory of Gronps of inito Orders .
The more general object of the is to this theory relation to a special algebra of the type considered in the theory of Algebra .
This lgcl ) , which may be called the Algebra of Gronps of Finite Order , has affinities to the Algebra of Symbolic a comparison of it with this lgebra is given in the ) section of this paper .
Mathematicians are ccnstomed i the study of quatermons to the idea of a vector being considered from two points of view ccording to circumstances , mely , either as a ltity , symbol expressive of the operation of modifying some cntity into another .
Now from the point of view of this paper it is to the idea of a group of operations , 1 on some nnspecified object , as which , ever v to interpretation of the The symbols to ) considered , as in the } .
case of quaternions , tinct objects .
two of these )jects i multiplied , its in , , then a third )ject of the roup , such as , is produced ; in reference to this mnltiplication one of the syml ) may ] ) looked on as an opertion on lnodifying it into .
Bnt this is not the sense in which the peratiol ) in the Theory of ronps .
ever , order not to distnrl ) the well understood tnre of the subject , the jccts S , n-ill lways be called the tions , or , moro shortly , the operations .
But the word tion simply ) ( for the objects represented ) theso syml ) These ( ] to capable of nddition ccording to the This is the well ddition in olic L oduction of ctors is therel)oitled .
The sum of of the tions , such is .
If obeys ccrt .
lJeci , it .
sum of ) ) Sir Norman Lockyer .
on the operations , namely , , obeys these conditions .
This is called the complete gronp , other groups are its su rotlps .
The first six sections of this paper are devoted to the detailed establishment of this purely tdgebr view of the subject .
At times the llodification in tment from that adopted in the treatises the subject , snch as Burnside 's ' Theory of of Finite Orders , ' slight .
lVhere the modification would be of no sufficient interest it been simply omitted , the theorems when wanted have been tbsnmed as part of the knowledge of the subject .
Only so reasoning has been given as will establish the principles of the AIgebra of Groups of Finite Order , viewed as an algebra independent interpretation , however vague .
The more special object of this paper follows directly from the nged point of view from which the Theory of Groups is here egarded .
The idea of the group is no longer so absorbing ; the set takes its place as the fundamental genoral entity which has to be investigated .
A gronp is a special type of set .
Accordingly in this paper of the general properties of sets investigated .
A set of operations nnmerous gronps associated with it , and these groups have relations with each other hich this paper cannot pretend to have exhausted .
The fumdamental of this part of the pape ] .
S7 is the formation from a set of mending series of other lets , here called the successive of in the notation of the written This series is called the power sequencc of H. Any which contains also contains its power The power sequence is proved to ]it periodic property ( cf. S9 ) -hich introduces a ourious to rrlng decimals .
This periodicity is the mdation of the rest of the paper .
It governs the relations to each othel .
of the varions allied groups and sets .
The periodicity is expressed by of the form where is called the period of crtnd the characteristic , and .
any integers ding zero .
The unber of theorems relating to is very large .
the nhanced L in the Spectrum of a \ldquo ; 1 ) Sir LOCKYER , K.C.B. , eceived Janlual y 1899 .
( PLATF .
6 .
) the of stars , to phic spectrjl , I camc across of * ' Phil. Trans , p. 676 .

