]\gt ; Prof. W. J. May 26 , 1898 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On the of Fertilisation and related nomena in Pinus silvesfris , L By .
H. BLACKNAN , F.L.S. Communicated by DARWIN , F.R.S. II .
" " The Skeleton and Classification of Calcareous Sponges G. P. BIDDEB .
mmunicated by ADAM SFDGWICK , III .
" " On Surfusion in Metals and Alloys By W. C. AUSTEN , C.B. , F.R.S. IV .
" " Note on the Complete Scheme of Electrodynamic a Moving Material Medinm , and on Electrostriction J. , D. Sc. , F.R.S. .
" " Aluminium as an Electrode in Cells for Direct and Currents By L WILSON .
Communicated by NSON , F.R.S. VI .
" " Contributions to the Study of ' ]ilicker .
' " " By T. C. Communicated by Lord LEIGH , F.R.S. VII .
" " On the Kathode of Potential in Gases By J. .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOIISON , The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Becess to June 9 .
" " the Intimate Structure of Crystals .
Part I. the .
Systcm with Cubic Cleavage By W. SOLLAS , LL. I ) .
, D.Sc .
, F.Ii .
S. , [ 'rofessor of Geology in of Oxford .
ceived January 20 , \mdash ; , 1898 .
advnncc in our knowledge of the ahCS that the latter half of this centut.y has a belicf in tho of atoms .
It is to this , that we turll to assist us in the study of of solids .
The solid , owever , stands at the 1 ) to the in ouc tho particles are unrestrained , to about any , and ) of comp ively On the Intimate Structure of stals .
before exerting mutual action on each other ; in the solid , on hand , they are so closely packed that in many cases the of heat is accompanied by only a very inconsiderable of the atoms to nearer .
Thus among metals , having one of the highest coefficients of expansion is indium ; only contracts of its bnlk for evel .
ccntithat it is lowered below the atmospheric emperature ; it continue to contract at this rate , but at a conbinaalIy one , as its temperature is progressively educed .
with a very low of expansion is idium , which only 000006 of its volume for every that it falls in Among non-metallic elements we may point to the case of the diamond , which , with the small coefficient of ctually ceases to contract at all when cooled below It may bo possible by other means to greater reducin the olume of solids , but so far as the withdrawal of thermal is concerned , it evidently accomplishes but very little , at in the case of solids treated at a temperature considerably their fusion points .
assumptiollS made in the study of gases are of the fewest and kind , but they include one that is of fuIidamental importin the ation of solids , , that in some sense an atom body space ; it is only by making this dmission that from important laws like Boyle 's find an explanation .
of an atom over a certain region of space endows space with form ; what thab form is we do not know , though we eventually discover .
In the absence of knowledge it is permisto make some kind of assumption , and then to to how far the consequenoes of that assumption accord with facts .
I propose to make the simplest assumption and to regard the volume of space appropriated by an atom the form of a solid of tion , and very generally of a Within this space there exists something , the of the or a force of repulsion , or } ) , which preserves it from invaby other atoms ; outside it there is , a pressure or forco which drives the atoms as close togethel as possible interpenetration .
It will probably be found these influences , }ressures , and usts , are directed , or that the are polar .
law of multiple proportions seems to lneet its coullterin in Hau 's law of " " the rationality of the " " and the conception by which sought to other facts relating to the form and strucburc of sing.ular points resemblance to Dalton 's ideas of views on crystalline structure appeal to me to the Prof. .
J. Sollas .
germ of a great truth , which subsequent refinements in metrical treatmexlt of the subjcct have to some extent Recenb work by Lord Kelvin , Tuttol , and others , great encouragement those who cherish a hope of arriving at some sure represcntation of crystalline the remarkable observations of Penfield* on the several species mineral chondrodite are of espccially suggestive character .
chondrodites us a homologous series of chemical pounds , having the constitution:\mdash ; No. of atoms of Mg .
( ) 5 ( ) 7 ( ) 9 As Professor Miers tells us , " " the three minerals have same form , but differ only in the 1 of one ( parameter ) .
The lengths of his in the three minerals the ratio of 5 : 7 : 9 .
Thus the addition of the , exerts a so-called mol.photropic ' action along one axis , and causes a certain constant increase the length of rameter)\ldquo ; " " It is furthcr a curious fact that the length ( parameter ) varies ectly as number of magnesium the compound The infererlce that the magnesium atoms posed along this axis would seem to follow naturally .
Mr. Barlow hns lately an investigation into the ent ways in which bodies of different volumes packed tooethero so as to produce different crystal forms .
method of treatment is general , and many of the atoms , which I am mysPlf lcd to imagine as existing in crystals , will , no doubt , be found to fall as special cases general laws .
But I do not propose in this communication to suggest some way in which atoms regarded as spheres may be up into forms ; my purpose is different , it is to certain particular substances , to to discover the ticular structure which must most rationally be ssigned to Further , to avoid misconception , it should be added that the " " closest packing which is so irably developed by Mr. does ) seem to be obeyed by the greater part of the crystals I investigated ; so far as cubic system is concerned , there is one simple snbstance in which the atoms are as closely possible , that is the diamond .
It is a singular fact hat of the cubic system , when posed of salts which are diatomic , such as , KC1 , are ised by a cubic cleavagc , while those composed of triatomic * Amer .
Journ. Science , ' vol. 47 , p. 188 .
On the Intimate Structure of as cuprous oxide , or fluorspar , possess an octacleavage .
Let us for the moment follow the hint given by and regard the cubic crystals with cubic as reduced cleavage to a primitive cubelet .
How in the case of a compound composed of atoms of different relative sizes , as , in common table salt , can the molecules be arranged ether so produce this cubelet.9 only way that I can discover is to place one moleby the side of another } as in the diagram ( fig. 1 ) , that planes to the pairs of atoms may form a square and then to rest on the top of this two more molecules , simiput together , the chlorine of the upper group on the the lower , and the sodium of the upper on the chlorine the lower ; common planes to the exterior of the spheres in fours will be found to form a cube .
is a simple and possible arrangement of the molecules of salt , but whether it alone and not some other is the actually arrangement is a question for argument .
Ever since Kopp formulated his famous laws , the subject of volumes has ssed great interest for the chem , though discrepancies which too frequently impair the correspondences by Kopp have evoked a general feeling of mistrust .
Nevertheless I am persuaded that in atomic volumes we possess the by which our conjecbural arl.angements may ) brought test .
The study of atomic volumes and crystalline structure mutual light upon each other .
Kopp obtained his volumes by dividing the molecular substance by its density ( d ) , thus .
Evidently if have the form of solids of revolution , this volume is a lump not only the volume of the atoms , bnt of tho between them .
We shall therefore speak of it as volume ( V ) , in contradistinction to the true relative me ( v ) the atom .
The shortest way of explaining our method of investigation will to describe at once the process as applied to the compounds the alkali metals .
Let us commence with comnuon table salt .
Its Prof. W. J. Sollas .
molecular weight is Its corresponding to the specific gravity , found as the result careful determinations by Retgers , is at C. volume is then .
If this number be plied by 4 , it will givs the volume of a primitive cnbelet , to be built up of 4 molecules , as already described .
The cube this number is , and represents the length edge of the cubelet , or the sum of the diameteI 's of the sodium and chlorine , by which this edge is determined .
The step is to endeavour to obtain some probable value for the these diameters , that of the sodium to that of the chlorine It is quite certain if the sodium and chlorine atoms do not occupy the same space , that the volume of sodium , and the other metals , is diffcrent in the force state and in combination .
is a conclusion to which Kopp was led , who found that by a reduction of the volume in the free state to one-half element entered into combination , he obtained fairly constant ferences on the half volumes of the metals from volumes of the chlorine salts .
Our investigations support oplnion of Kopp .
In the following table data for investigation given for such haloid compounds are open to study .
* In and all subsequcnt the atomic weights are those to oxygcn , 16 , as a base .
On the of C'rystals .
the exception of the densities of sodium and potassium which have been very exactly determined by Retgers , the given above cannot be regarded as more tlJan approximanot to be trusted in the second place of decimals , not first .
If one-half of the volumes of metals given in the table be subtracted from the volumes of the saIts in the we obtain the owing results:\mdash ; It will be ) served that the difference the volumc ) salts containing same haloid eleme]lt and the gross of metal they contain is ) equal in common difference in the case of the c vr/ rlcs from the case of the ) omides , from to ; in the iodides from to .
It was assumed by Kopp that to volume cf the aloid elemet diffcrences COl'respone ' the jcct from make the same , an point of view obtain a more consisrent aecment betwcell diiferences hich l'cprescllt the volumes of the haloids .
The system in which lithium bromide lses .
not same is true of lithium iodidc , and these are excluded from our them , it by inspcction that the g difference volume of metnl and haloid lvith hich it is is the value found 1for the of the hidoid ; of the ides , the value for , and the disparity the volumes of chlois the greatest in the sel.ies .
In way tl ) bromide has a less volume than that in ) ding salt , and volumes of sodium thC from equality than thosc of potassium and bromine .
a necessal'y consequctlce of such an of Prof. W. J. Sollas .
we have imagined to exist in the case of common salt , described , for i6 can readily be shown , and 1vill presently that the of the volumes of the eight spheres forming a tive cubelet to the volume of the intersbices continuously as the spheres approach equality , or , more precisely , the total of the cubelet , including interstices , is to the volume of the tuined spheres as : 1 when the spheres are all equal , diminishes this down to a limit , of which we shall have to say presently , of when the two kinds of spherss attained the greatest possible degree of consistent the ement assigned to Of the different possiblo modes of packing in ths cubic one we have adopted is the only one that gives this within lbe limits of difference in size which we are considering ; kin of simple leads to an increase in the grofis the two sets of constituent spheres depart equality iu sions .
There is but one exception to this statement , and this not affect our argtlment , as it is true of one particular ratio and is applicable to the haloid salts of the alkalies .
Returning llow to the ined cubelet of common salt , able to give a value to the diameter of the sodium atom it thus , the gross volume of the sodium is one.half of the volume of sodium in the free sfato ; suppose eight atoms of built up into a cube in the same way that the sodium chloride imagined to be built up , one sphere to corner of the cube , then the edge of the cube will be equal in to the sum of the diameters of two sodium atoms .
Thtls , the volume of sodium , the gross voIume of eight and , the length of the edge of the cube ; divided by 2 gi the diameter of a sodium atom as the length of the of a cubcleb of sodium chloride was be ; deducting the diameter of sodium afom from this , have , the diameter of an atom of chlorine Using the value found for the diameter of an atom of sodium a basis , may proceed to treat all the haloid salts available examinntion the same way as follows:\mdash ; * This could of course be directly ined from the gross volume , lvhich be regarded as the cube circumbClibing the sodium sphere ; but I preserve a parallclisn1 in treating the salts and the elements .
On the Intimate Structure of Crystals .
meters of atoms .
NaBr Br 2i789 -Na . . . . . . . . . . .
Diameters of atoms .
-K . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.8314 Br -K . . . . . . . . . . . .
These resuIts , however , are merely approximate , , as Professor has pointed out to me , the diameter of the second sphere in a cannot be obtained by simply subtracting the diameter of from the edge .
ofessor Miers shows that the relation the length of the edge of the cnbe ( A ) and of , radius the larger spheres ( R ) and of the smaller ( r ) may be expressed the equation\mdash ; which he obtains\mdash ; Employing this formula , the diameters of the atoms are found to as follows :\mdash ; There does not appear to be any sound reason volume of element s'nould remain absolutely conslant and ndependent of the with which it is associated , even in a homologous , and I inclined to think that the differences which appear in our are not wholly due to defects in our knowledge of the specifir $ It has since to me that a slight modification in our conccption of the in which the atoms are arranged ill render our exac ; will be the case if we consider the atoms to b sitatd ou nodes of acubic lattice ; we shall recur to tlJis in a of this Prof. W. J. Sollas .
gravity of the different salts , bui that they are real and of cance .
The difference in bhe coefficients of oxpansion for the haloids suggest a certain want of constancy in volume .
Fizeau obtained for the linear coefficient of expansion of and since it is improbable that the component atoms of bhese possess the samo coefficient of expansion , it would seem absolute constancy of relative is in a high degree bable .
It is sufficient , howevcr , for our purposes if it can be thab the deviation from is confined to narrow indeed , from the results so rtined , appears to be the case .
The importance of these esults for our inquiry is , howe er , that they cannot be obtnined by any other method of ; methods , instGad of minimising the difference:s between the volumes , would , on the ggerate them .
The relative dimensions of the atoms already considered may : tabulated as follows:\mdash ; Element .
Diameler .
Li . . . . . .
18848 Na . . . . . .
, , . . . . . .
2 .
Element .
Diameler .
Li . . . . . .
18848 Na . . . . . .
, , . . . . . .
2 .
EJement .
Diameter .
Br , , NaBr ) I. . . . . . . . . .
3 .
17.127 the next table the sum of volumes of the atoms in a moIect is compared with gross volumc of the salt , and exhibited the of a ratio .
I. of the volumos of the atoms .
II .
volumcs of the salts .
III .
Ratio of I to II .
On the Intimate Structure of Crystals .
It will be observed that in every case the ratio is smaller the greater difference between the size of the component atoms .
It may next be pointed out that there exists a very important nitation to our power of .
pairs of atoms or diatomic olecules in the manner we have sted ; the two atoms of olecule may be equal in size , or they may be unequal , so long as the equality does llot exceed the value of 1 : I owe to the dness of Professor Miers the following method of lding the value of this limit .
Let the centres of the spheres 3 referred to three edges of the cube , meeting at one corner , as le axes , and .
The coordinates for the centre of ] xger sphere are , and for the centre of the ohere .
Then In the limiting case , when the two larger spheres are in contact , , .
When the smaller spheres fall below the valuc )angent planes to the es no longcr define a cube , but which is a hemimorphic form of the rhombohedral or ystem ; and in all cases I hnve yet amined of Delonging to a series in the cubic systcm cubic cleavage , I find dircctly ) atomic volumcs falls below this limit salt passcs out of the cubic an presents itself under hcmimorphic forms .
This is ' with silver iodide , which is fully discussed in sccond pal't this communication .
That the substances to which we ve prcsent restricted our attention consist of pairs of atoms which lie bhe prescribed limit is shown by the following table , in the ratios of the diameters are Prof. .
J. Sollas .
Li Cl Li Cl 2.2721 Maximum limiting ratio , 1 : If the arrangement of the atoms in the crystals under be , as I conceive , the actually existing arrangement , it is not the one to which views on close packing would have does not appear to have been at all parsimonious of and that atoms should be disposed in such comparatively open and yet produce structures of great rigidity , almost suggests the existence of poies or directed forces .
The of the question renders it necessary to probe the matter deeper , we may naturally seek for further confirmation of our .
Since the ement at which we have is probable , we expect if any other arrangements to find evidence of closer packing .
We turn , therefore , to evidence afforded by solutions .
In a solution the molecules are as a the , cons ) to about fixed positions , they are uilt up into a solid , but are free to glide over another , and to from placc to place .
In their case is not to be expected ; in the absence of arrangement , closest packing will .
Closest packing among spheres exists when one is snrrounded by twelve others in It is the gement met with in triangular piles of round a stack of this kind bhe ratio of the volume of the balls to the of the pyramid they form , incIuding interstices , is as 1 : On oducing a of commo1J salt into water the edifice is , and the separated molecules become by those of the solvent in closest packing .
As the solution is dilute the molecnles of salt are resolved into their hich wander ) the solution , still under the infiuence pressures , themselves bo the law of closest Under these circumstances change of volume is be expected common passes into brine ?
Clearly a traction , and thal to a considerable amount , such , indeed , actually observed whenever the haloid salts of the alkalies solved in water .
This general observation affords strong mation of the truth of our hypothetical arrangement , ill be still further strengthened if we pursue the subject ttitative comparison .
ideas involved in the atomic volume are Jess simple in the case of a liquid than solid .
In any case the atomic volume must be regarded On th Intimafe Structnre of fots .
effect , bnt a liquid there are more factors to be inteThe ).esults of the following investigation are Ilecessarily , only first tions .
From the numbers which we have already assigned to the relative of the atoms the ] density follows the relation by dividing ) the factor ) we obtain the density substance , which would be by the atoms , when most packed ether .
givcn in .
\mdash ; The researches of have given us exact the specific ravity of solutions of the haloid salts of the and from these we may calculate the density of the ionR .
the equation , where A and esent t of salt and water respecbively , and the density of and the density of the solution .
The specific gravity of the examined will be found given in Watts ' of ' or Whetham 's 'Solution and ectrolysis , ' and need not repeated bear ; they are derived bless , published 1869 , in the 'Zeitscbrift fur Analytische Chemie , ' vol. 8 , p. possible , I have elected for examination a solution a gram-molecole of the salt to litre of water .
Making in equation above value , as found for the differcnt Ioid is given in the table below:\mdash ; Prof. W. J. Sollas .
As close a correspondence appears as could be expected conditions of the case , and it would seem that the crystalline ture attributed to the haloid salts , while inconsistent with no group of facts , is in quantitative accordance with all that we investigated , and throws unexpected light on hitherto phenomena .
The subject of solution must not , however , be without giving the sities found more dilute solutions : are shown in the following table:\mdash ; Some of these numbers are less concordant with the deduced from the crystalline strucbure than those obbained stronger solutions , as presented in the preceding table , but it is to remarkc-d that whatever rors exist in the observations are thrown on to the values we have obtained ; the numbers given in third column bear all the burden of error arising when dealing very minute quantities .
To show how greatIy our resIllts are enced by slight variations in specific gravity , as given in the column of numbers above , I have calculated backwards from density of the atoms to find what specific gravity should give idcntical values for the density , as ated from the structure and from solution .
It is not necessary to give the for more than two salts ; in the case of potassium chloride specific avity of the solution , to accord with theory , should 100.38 instead of 10046 observed , to reduce the density .
, its value on the assumptions we have made ; in the case sodium chloride the specific gravity should be to density of , instead of the fonnd .
Although observers do not always give the same specific gravity for the solutions of salts , it is certain that the discrepallcies between and obscr ation before us axe not to be explained away by the obscrvations ; we have before us an esting residual n1enon , susceptible of more explanations than one .
It will be obse1wed that thoso salts the density of which is cxcoss of that ) redicted , arc those whose volumes are On the lntimate St.ucture of ystals .
It is only when the ions possess a volume identical with that molecules of water that exact agreement between theory and can result .
The moleculal1 volume of water at is , and if its molecules are closely packed , the molecular volume will be by dividing this number by this gives ; the diameter of the molecular volume is Comparing the diameter of the ions with this , taken as we have:\mdash ; will be that the ions of polassium bromide and iodide nearest approach to equality with the atomic volume of and should consequently give most accordant results with ; this will be found to be the case on reference to the tables , differences which appear are well witLin the limits of experierror .
chlorides are all characterised by to a density which is in exccss .
Alternative explanations may be offered ; on the one hand , the volume of water has been taken as spherical , because its are most oably in rotation , but it is quite the of possibility that ions in their migrations may roll upon consbitucnt atoms of the water molecules , and thus to some invade the boundary of the moleculal In the case of the smaller ions with relatively small volume this lead to a considerable increase in the calculated density , while case of the larger it would be scarcely affected .
It is possible when the commingled spheres of the ions vater are of diameter bearing a certain rabio to each at closer packing may be brought about , so that the volume of we have allotted to the smallel ions wonld be educed ; is is a question for geometers .
The crystallographic study of these salts remai tion .
are ways in which the primitive cubelets may bc arrallged the construction of crystals : they are in plml iu and both give homogeneous in the cubic , bub at shown in fig. 3 is holohedral , tl1at in fig. 2 is , as of liquicl of H-.O ; its those of the ions is therefore greatcr is When , as until recently , sodinm chIoride was assignedhedral symmetry , it would have been natural to suppose arrangement of its molecules was of fig. 3 ; but lately it been placed hemihedral crystals with which potassium ride has long been associated .
The structure of hese salts , judging by analogy of most of the alkaline haloids , is thus represented by fig. 2 .
It is of intel.est to serve that in the holohedral similar atoms are brought into contact ; this is not the case hemihedral symmetry .
Perhaps in this is to be found an tion of the fact that diatomic compounds of monads do not lIolohedral symmetry .
A plagiohedral asymmetry is revealed in the common salt and potassium chloride by the action of solvents , produce etch-figures bounded by faces of a hexakis-octahedro The factors which determine the forms produced by solution unknown , but probably include the disposition of the chemical of the atoms in the molecule , and the relation of the water to the disposition of the atoms in the ystal .
It is evident , ever , both from models and figure that there is a skew in the bution of the chemical bonds of our molecules , and this may connected wibh the skew faces produced by solution .
Planes can be drawn through the assemblage of fig. 2 the faces of the cubelets without c.rossing any of the these be regarded as planes of cleavage .
When a cube of rock salt is truncated at two opposite parallel to planes of a rhombic dodecahedron , and pressure exerted on the crystal in a direction normal to these faces : compression results in the direction of the onal , accompanying this a refracting stripe appears .
With creased pressure a clean fracture is produced , parallel to one of rhombic dodecahedral faces to which pressure is applied .
All this is in complete consistence with the structure ally assigned to the crystal .
The effcct of pressure , as I imagine in the fig. 4 ) , the molecnles are forced to slide each other ; those on along hich pressure make a nearer approach to each ; those at righb dri .
Up to the critical point , and anisotropy produced ; beyond ib } the becomes plane of tion of elasticity must be left to elasticians ; but I ld to point out the facts elicited by Voigf and Koch ; Voigb for elasticity modulus of rock salt a coefficient of per squarc millimetre parallel to tetragollal axes of cube , to the d axcs or to the hombic dodecahedral faces ( 110 ) , 3180 kilograms to the trigonal axes or normal to the o faces ( 111 ) .
for assium chloride , 4009 to the axes , ) 2088 the very similar ntitics .
the of in the figure , ono would that these esnlts are of to be expected ; the force exerted the tetrao o. nxis effective in producing compression of the atoms , in t'ne xcbure .
An exact correspondenco by Lord Kelvin betwcen the theoretical of a cube and the results obtained by direct measu ] clncnt of chloride , the COlTespondence does not extend to the of observation for rock salt , the structure we have ystals is not tlJat considered by Lord in his i The hardness of rock in different directions has been invcstiby Exner , who finds that its value is at a maximum to , and at a minimum to the lals , of of This resuIt was obtained by debermining , with it was necessary to load a finely pointed needle , to c1use it to " " On the asticity of stal according to 'Roy .
Soc. Proc p. 09 .
VOL. Prof. W. J. Sollas .
scratch the face of the crystal .
It was found that if it load of one to produce scratching parallel to the edge of a cube , a load of was necessary parallel to a diagonal .
broadly , it will be seen by reference to the figure that the force acting parallel to a diagonal should be to that to a side , as 1 : , i.e. , as 1 : .
Considering how the problem actually is , this correspondence is quite as close as possibly be expected .
By several distinct lines of ument , resbing on the moecuar volumes , of the density of solutions , of the symmetry characters of , we have been led to the same given the atomic volumes in the ratios we have assigned to othel was possible ; and we may now with greater proceed to the investigation of other diatomic compounds , will be found to throw a }urprising light on the molecular crystals .
" " On the Intimate Structurc of Crystals .
II .
he Cubic System Cubic eavage .
Haloid pounds of Silver By W. J. SOLLAS , .D .
, D.Sc .
, F. Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
ceived Janual February 3 , 1898 .
The haloid compounds of ilver offer more points of interest study of crystal tactics tlJan those of the alkalis , especially as include that substance\mdash ; iodide of silver .
Silver itseH crystallises in the cubic system , and same kind of structure as all other metals which possess symmetry , i.e. , its atoms are on the plall of most packing : unlike the ] it undergoes no change of on atiou .
Its atomic weight is ; density has been differently detel'lnined by different silver heated in vacuo Dumas found , and ; the of the.sc numbers .
The weigh , divided by ives 1 , the gross .
From this the dinmeler of the atomic sphere is , and its volurne Both the chloride and bromide crystallise in the cubic and are from as possessing the same and symmetry as the corresponding saIts of potassium sodium .
The specific gravity of silver chloride is obtained from after .
The latesb determinations give for silver

