The Origin and Growth of Ripple-Mark .
" The Origin and Growth of Ripple-Mark .
" By Mrs. Hertha Ayrton .
Communicated by Professor W. E. Ayrton , F.R.S. Received April 21 ; received in revised form May 26 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the investigation was to determine how ripple-mark started in perfectly smooth sand , apart from accidental variations of surface friction ; how the ripples grew ; how the amplitude and depth of the water affected them ; and whether there was any connection between ripple-mark and kindred phenomena , such as the dust figures in a Kundt 's tube .
In the course of the investigation the causes , form , and mode of action of " ripple vortices " in the water were determined , and the fact that no vortices of this kind can form in a current flowing steadily in one direction over an obstacle was demonstrated , both theoretically and practically .
Also many minor details came to light , such as the fact that each ripple is continually travelling , as a whole , and why it does so .
As regards the starting of ripple-mark , it was found that a single ridge forms , on perfectly smooth sand , wherever the water happens to have the same place of maximum longitudinal velocity during several oscillations .
That as soon as this ridge is high enough ( less than a millimetre is sufficient ) , the water , in flowing over it , forms a spiral vortex with horizontal axis , which starts a new furrow and ridge in the lee of the first\#151 ; on one side during one swing and on the other side during the next .
That the vortex that forms in the lee of each of these two ripples in turn originates a new ripple there , and that in this way , fresh ripples are begun with each succeeding swing of the water till the whole sand is ripple-marked .
It was shown that the " ripple vortices " only came into existence during the time when the water was rising above the mean level , and the causes and manner of formation of the vortices were given .
It was found that when the place of maximum horizontal velocity was constant , not merely for several oscillations , but for a considerable time , as at the loop , for horizontal motion , of a stationary wave , the ridge mentioned above grew into a ripple-marked heap which was highest at the loop and lowest at the nodes .
By oscillating water in the simplest possible way , i.e. , so that it alternately rose and fell at one end of the trough while it alternately fell and rose at the other , a stationary wave having its length twice the length of the trough was obtained , and in this case a ripple-marked mound arose of which the apex was at the middle of the trough\#151 ; one loop of the wave\#151 ; and VOL. LXXIV .
2 T 566 Dr. George Senter .
The Role of Diffusion in the [ Mar. 7 , the lowest parts were near the ends\#151 ; the two nodes .
When the stationary wave was of the same length as the trough two mounds arose , one near each end , and so on .
It is suggested that the tidal ridges in estuaries and the chains of sand banks under the sea are formed in this way , by stationary or nearly stationary water waves , and that the sand dunes of the seashore and of the desert , and the clouds in a " mackerel sky " may be similarly the products of stationary air waves .
The Dole of Diffusion in the Catalysis of Hydrogen Peroxide by Colloidal Platinum .
" By George Senter , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Bond .
) .
Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , E.R.S. Received March 7 , \#151 ; Read March 30 , 1905 .
According to a theory of reaction-velocities in heterogeneous systems recently put forward by Nernst , * * * S the observed velocities are those with which diffusion and convection renew the reacting material at the boundary of the two phases , the actual chemical change at the boundary being very rapid in comparison .
Nernst is of opinion that the same considerations apply to the catalytic decomposition of hydrogen peroxide by colloidal platinum and similar substances , but has not gone fully into the discussion of this particular class of heterogeneous reactions .
In a recent paper on the effect of poisons on the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide by hsemase , f I have discussed the probable mechanism of catalysis by colloidal particles , and have arrived at the conclusion that the experimental results obtained by Bredig and his pupils and by myself are best accounted for on Nernst 's hypothesis .
In an important paper on this subject , Sand , J starting from certain assumptions regarding the size and nature of the particles in a colloidal platinum solution , has calculated the minimum value of the velocity-constant ( which we may call KD ) to be expected on Nernst 's hypothesis , and finds that it is at least 16 times as great as the velocity-constant obtained experimentally by Bredig .
S Hence , he concludes that Nernst 's hypothesis does not apply to this particular reaction ; the observed velocity is really that of a chemical action .
* ' Zeitschrift fur physikal .
Chemie , ' yol .
47 , p. 52 , 1904 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 201 , 1904 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yol .
74 , p. 356 ( 1905 ) .
S Bredig and Muller yon Berneck , ' Zeit .
fur physikal .
Chemie , ' vol. 31 , p. 258 , 1899 ; Bredig and K. Ikeda , * Zeit .
fur physikal .
Chemie , ' yol .
37 , p. 1 , 1901 .

