Two papers were read 3 the one entitled , " On the Influence of Screens in arresting the Progress of Magnetic Action : " the other , " On the Power of Masses of Iron to control the attractive Force of a Magnet .
" By William Snow Harris , Esq. F.R.S. The object of the first paper is to show* that every substance susceptible of magnetism by induction , when interposed as a screen , tends to arrest the action of a magnet upon a third substance : this intercepting power being directly as the mass and inversely as the susceptibility to induced magnetism .
Thus , although a single plate of iron , about the sixteenth of an inch thick , effectually intercepts the action of a revolving magnet on a disc of copper , the same result is not obtained when the disc acted upon is also of iron , instead of being of copper ; unless the mass of iron interposed be very considerable .
The screening influence he found to depend on the mass of iron that is interposed , and not on the surface merely .
He was led to suspect that a similar effect might be obtained by employing substances not of a ferruginous nature , provided they were inter ?
posed in considerable masses , and the result of his trials justified his conjecture .
An account is given of several experiments made with large masses of silver , copper , or zinc , of about four inches in thickness , which being interposed between a revolving magnetic plate and a delicately suspended disc of tinned iron , completely intercepted the action of the magnet on the iron .
The author considers this interceptive property to be more or less common to every class of substance ; and that in order to render it sensible , it is only necessary to employ the bodies in masses , bearing some direct ratio to their respective magnetic energies .
Thus lead , having a weaker magnetic energy than copper , must be employed in a larger mass in order to produce an equal effect ; and to render the screening power of ice sensible would require it to be above thirty feet in thickness .
If , instead of interposing the screen of iron immediately between the revolving magnet and the sus ?
pended disc of copper , the iron be brought very near the under surface of the magnet , a similar neutralizing influence is exerted .
In the second paper , the investigation of this subject is resumed , and the neutralizing power of a mass of iron investigated under different circumstances .
From the experiments detailed by the author , he is led toinfer that substances highly susceptible of receiving transient magnetism , are the most efficient in their operation as screens 3 this operation being referrible to their neutralizing power .
It is , however , very difficult to render this power sensible in the case of non-ferruginous bodies , unless they be actually placed between the magnet and the substance acted upon , so as to neutralize effec ?
tually the actions of those points which are nearest to each other .
The attractive force exerted between a magnet and a mass of iron he finds to be always in the direct ratio of this controlling or screen ?
ing power of the iron , or , in other words , to its neutralizing power in similar circumstances .
The author suggests that a temporary magnetic state may be conceived to be induced in a substance in two ways : either by the immediate action of the magnet upon each individual particle of the given substance , or else by the action of each particle of that substance on the next in succession , producing a propagation of magnetism from the one to the other .
It may also , however , take place in both these ways at the same time .
But these different modes of action appear to be in some inverse ratio of each other : for when the retentive or absorbing power of the substance is considerable , the power of the magnet becomes soon controlled ; because the particles of the substance first acted upon , begin to operate as screens to the succeeding ones , and the induced magnetism after a certain point , proceeds entirely by communication from particle to particle , until the whole power is expended .
When , on the contrary , the retentive power of the given substance is small , little or no screening energy exists between its particles , in which case the magnetic excitement will depend upon the influence of the magnet on each individual particle : hence it is only by the succession or multiplication of effect resulting from a great number of particles , that we at length render the controlling power of such a substance sensible .
The diminished action of a magnet on a disc of copper , when intersected by radiating grooves , seems to be owing to this cause , since a portion of the substance , requisite to the full development of the magnetic energy , is removed .
In confirmation of this reasoning it was found that the number of oscillations of a delicately suspended bar , made in vacuo , in a given are , surrounded by a mass of copper formed into rings , did not sensibly differ when , in the one case , that mass was made up of concentric rings , and , in the other , was entirely solid : while , on the contrary , by removing a very thin external lamina from the former , the number of vibrations was sensibly changed .
The concluding part of this paper is occupied by speculations on the nature of magnetic action : the author being disposed to regard a magnet as rather in a passive than an active state , when exhibiting the phenomena of magnetic attraction .
This attraction he considers as the result of an impression first made on the magnet by the iron which appears to be attracted by it : because he finds that with different masses of iron of the same quality , the force at the same distance is unequal ; being with some pieces very sensible , whilst with others it is altogether inappreciable .
He views a magnet as a substance put into a peculiar state or condition , in consequence of which it exhibits certain properties when subjected to external excitation ; in a way analogous to the elastic force of a spiral spring , which is not called into action unless that spring is stretched by a weight suspended to it , or by some other extraneous force .
In the case of magnetism , the exciting substance is likewise affected in a similar manner with the magnet which it excites ; and the analogy of the spiral spring may be further pursued , in order to render the two cases corresponding , by supposing the weight which elongates the first spring to be itself another similar spiral spring , which is also elongated while exerting its force on the first .
Under these circumstances the separation of the coils will be greatest at the upper end of the whole combination of springs , at least at the lower part , presenting a contrariety of states at the two extremities , ana ?
logous to the opposite polarities of the two ends of a magnet .

