2 .
" Further Experiments on Light .
" By Henry Lord Brougham , F.R.S. , Member of the Institute of France , and of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Naples .
Received March 5 , 1852 .
T'he author commences this account of his experiments by remarking , that " it is probable that some may consider the inference to be drawn from the following experiments as unfavourable to the doctrines of my former paper--I think I can explain the phenomena according to those doctrines--but be they ever so repugnant , we are of course in search of truth , and have no right even to wish that the balance may incline one way rather than another , far less to conceal any facts which may affect its inclination .
" The leading experiment is this:-A speculum is placed in a beam of light and is inclined so that the reflected rays shall make a small angle with the surfaces .
Near the speculum the axis of reflected rays coincides with that of the direct rays , but at a greater distance the two discs are separate .
The speculum being placed horizontally across the pencil , coloured fringes appear both on the upper and lower side of the reflected disc .
These two sets of fringes are alike in their colours and in the order of their colours , but the upper fringes are narrower than the lower , and they diminish in breadth with their distance from the disc , while the lower ones increase in breadth with their distance .
If only one edge of the speculum is in the pencil there are only fringes on one side of the disc .
It appears that the breadth of the fringes is in some inverse proportion to the breadth of the speculum .
When the speculum is a triangle with a very acute angle , the broadest fringes , and those most removed from the disc , answer to the points of the speculum where it is narrowest , and they increase regularly towards the point which answers to the acute angle or apex of the speculum .
Their form is hyperbolic .
When the edges of the speculum are parallel , the disc near to it is filled with groups of fringes which vary in number , in breadth and in colour , at all the distances from the speculum .
At one distance they form only a dark line running through the disc , and this is deep purple when examiined closely .
At a greater distance the fringes have other colours , and become broader again ; and at a still greater distance they emerge into the shadow on both sides of the disc .
The phenomena of reflexion , it is stated , closely resemble those of flexion , as to the fringes , their colours , their magnitude , their variation at different distances from the bending edges , and at different distances of those edges from each other .
A convenient method of examining the variation of the fringes , whether of reflexion or of flexion , at various distances , is to incline the screen upon which they are received , so that it crosses the rays forming the fringes , which are exhibited upon it , at various distances from the edges .
The line which each fringe describes being the projection of the line which the rays follow that form the fringe , we can in this manner observe if the course of these rays after flexion is rectilinear or curvilinear , the projection being , generally speaking , a line of the same kind with the original line ; and at least never rec .
tilinear if that original line is curvilinear .
If y=f ( x ) be the line which the rays follow after flexion ; q the sin ( p angle of the screen 's inclination ; os P--=m ; and x ' the abscissae of Cos u ) the line of projection ; then its equation is y =f ( / V 1+ m2 .
xl ) .
If the curve of the rays be supposed to be the equilateral conic hyperbola , the radius of curvature in the curve of projection , it is stated , must be less than that in the original line ; and so the curvature is more easily discerned by the eye .
As under no circumstances of inclination of the screen , and at no part whatever of the course of the fringes could the author perceive the least difference of form from all the other parts , he infers , either that the rays follow a rectilinear course , or that their deviation from it must be very small .
Though the phenomenon seem to indicate a crossing of the rays both in flexion and reflexion , at or near the distance at which the dark or deep purple line is formed , yet the author has never been able to observe that an obstacle placed between that point and the speculum ( or the bending edges ) , made the fringes on the opposite side of the disc at the screen to disappear , but only the fringes on the same side with itself .
Referring to Fresnel 's memoir , the author states that the principle laid down in it , " that the dilatation of the fringes depends solely upon the breadth of the aperture , " will not afford an explanation of the phenomena described in his former paper respecting fringes formed by edges acting in succession , for he there showed that their breadth and their distances from the direct rays are in the inverse proportion of the distance of the edges ; and if the edges are so placed that the rays pass parallel to each other , and not diverging , and the edges are moved to different distances in the same line , e. g. horizontally , then their distance from each other vertically being the same , the aperture is the same at all distances of the edges from each other horizontally , and yet the breadth of the fringes is inversely as the horizontal distance .
Further , where the edges are not placed in succession , but directly opposite to each other , the breadths of the fringes do not appear to follow the exact inverse proportion of the distances of the edges ( that is the size of the aperture ) , the observed breadths correm _n sponding more nearly with the curve y= - , x ' being the distance of the edges , and y the breadth of the fringes .
The author considers that the internal fringes , or those of the shadows of small bodies , called fringes of interference , require a more full examination than they have received in certain respects .
As regards the central space and the two deep black fringes or intervals on each side of it , he remarks that no examination with a magnifier , and no inclination of the screen , at all resolves these colours into purple as in the dark line before described .
They appear to follow a different law from that of the coloured ones as regards their breadths in proportion to their distances from the pin or other small object , at least if they are caused by interference , and if the effect of interference is inversely as the difference of the length of the rays ; for m that would give for the breadths the curve y=a_/ b +which nowise agrees with the admeasurements .
The action of transparent plates on the rays , in bending them , resembles in every respect that of opake plates , except that there being no shadow , the external fringes are not perceived .
But the shadow of the edge of the plate is surrounded by two sets of fringes resembling exactly those surrounding the shadow of a hair or other small body placed upon the plate 's edge , and following its course , with this only difference , that this shadow of the transparent plate 's edge has no internal fringes as the hair or other small body 's shadow has .

