28 Fragmentation in Linens gesserensis .
ing of certain leaves is a material help to the translocation of starch in them is probably sound , as such colouring matters screen off the rays which destroy the diastase .
3 .
That there exists in plants a power of absorbing and utilising the radiant energy of light , sometimes to a considerable extent , without the presence of a chlorophyll apparatus .
The last conclusion appears to be of very far-reaching importance , supplementing other observations already published by Engelmann , * TV inogradski , f Speschnew , and other observers , none of whom , however , have indicated such utilisation of the i*ays of the visible-spectrum .
" Fragmentation in Linens gesserBy Alex .
Brown , .
M.B. , B.Sc. , M.A. , Lecturer in Zoology , and Senior Assistant in the Natural History Department , University of Aberdeen .
Communicated Joy Professor McIntosh , F.R.S. Received February 1 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The following results are deducible from the investigations described in the paper :\#151 ; 1 .
The zones of fission in Lineus gesserensis coincide with the transverse markings observable externally at definite intervals on its body .
2 .
The process of fission in all cases proceeds from within outwards , i.e. , from the digestive canal towards the cutaneous tissues .
3 .
The process of fission is a process of solution , and that , too , through the agency of the digestive fluids of the alimentary tract .
4 .
The solution of the tissues of the body-wall at the zones of fission is preceded in those regions by circular outgrowths of intestinal epithelium together with the formation of corresponding external grooves .
5 .
In the plane passing through any zone of fission , there is distinct evidence of the exertion of continuous pressure in opposite directions , or pressure exerted outwards through the intestinal outgrowth is met by pressure exerted inwards in the same plane through the body-wall .
6 .
As the result of these opposing forces , atrophy , disintegration and disappearance of the outermost cells of the intestinal outgrowth take place .
Thus the layers of the body-wall are brought into con-* ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1888 .
f 'Ann .
de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1890\#151 ; 1891 .
List of Candidates for Election .
29 tact with the digestive cavity , and solution of the tissues proceeds outwards .
7 .
The ruptured surfaces are at once covered up by the intestinal outgrowth , and by the proliferation of the subjacent connective tissue .
8 .
The connective tissues all along the zone of fission multiply in order to aid in the healing of the fragments .
9 .
The intestinal epithelium changes in character as it takes up its new external position .
10 .
The whole process of fission has evident relationships to the process of sexual reproduction .
2Iarch 4 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for themIn pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , as follows:\#151 ; Allen , Alfred Henry , F.C.S. Baker , H. Brereton , M.A. Barrett , Professor W. F. , F.R.S.E. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Bell , Robei't , LL. D. Benham , William Blaxland , D.Sc .
Binnie , Alexander Richardson , Mem. Inst. C.E. Broad bent , Sir William Henrv , Bart. Brown , Professor Ernest William .
Budge , Ernest A. Wallis , D.Litt .
Burch , George James , M.A. Callaway , Charles , D.Sc .
Cardew , Philip , Major , R.E. Chree , Charles , M.A. Corfield , William Henry , M.D. Crookshank , Professor Edgar March , M.B. Dixon , Professor Alfred Cardevv , M.A. Dresser , Henry Bales . !
Edgeworth , Francis Ysidro , M.A. Elwes , Henry John , F.L.S. Etheridge , Robert , F.G.S. Gamble , James Sykes , M.A. Gray , Professor Thomas , B.Sc. Haddon , Alfred Cort , M.A. Haldane , John Scott , M.D. Harcourt , Leveson Francis Vernon , M.Inst .
C.E. Harmer , Sidney Frederic , M.A. Haswell , Professor William A. , I D.Sc .
Head , Henry , M.D. Howes , Professor George Bond , F.L.S. Kantliack , A. A. , M.D. Kipping , F. Stanley , D.Sc .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Lewes , Professor Vivian B. , F.C.S.

