]\gt ; The Solubility of Xenon , ypton , Argon , Neon , and Helium in Water .
By A. VON , University , London , 1908 ; Polytechnikum , .
( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 22 , \mdash ; Read March 3 , 1910 .
) The rare gases of the atmosphere are more than any others entitled to justify the hope that simple laws for the solubility of gases in liquids may be found ; because they are monatomic ; and also because there is no risk of complication owing to the formation of compounds with the solvent .
For this reason Sir William Ramsay suggested to Th. Estreicher* that he should investigate the solubility of argon and helium in water ; and last year he was kind enough to place at my disposal a sufficient quantity of xenon , krypton , and neon , so as to enable me to examine the solubility of these rare gases .
There were about 8 .
of pure neon and about 300 .
each of xenon and krypton , which were prepared by Sir W. Ramsay and B. Moore by fractionating the residue of distillation of over litres of liqnid air .
About 10 .
of each gas was sufficient for the dete1mination of its solubility .
First difft methods for the determination of solubility were employed .
In order ) carry exact experiments with the least possible quantity of gas , the first apparatus , which was used only to determine the solubility of xenon , was built somewhat on the principle of Bunsen 's absorptiometer , inasmuch as the burette was used as the absorbing vessel .
The liquid was stirred by dropping mercury ; and tlJe levels were read at various pressures .
Saturation was reached at to C. within about 10 minutes , but at C. it was complete only after five or six hours .
The long time required was one reason for rejecting the first form of apparatus for the other experiments ; moreover , when saturation was reached , and even earlier , bubbles of gas , which adhered to the glass and prevented accurate readings , constantly rose from the surface of the mercury as if there were local supersaturation .
Second Apparatns.\mdash ; All subsequent experiments were made with the apparatus shown in fig. 1 ; it is very similar to the one used by Estreicher , the gas-burette A and the absorbing vessel being co1mected by a thin glass .
ph .
Ch vol. 31 , p. 176 ( 1899 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , p. 195 ( 1908 ) .
The Solubility ofXenon , , Neon , et 475 tube , bent to a coil and therefore sufficiently flexible to allow the vessel to be shaken .
It is useful to place the nearly in one plane , with a slope towards , as this decreases the height of the apparatus , rendering it more convenient for placing in a thermostat ; it also secures high of flexibility .
The burette was fitted inside with a series of pointers .
dark glass , supported by a thin glass tube with closed ends , fused to the burette . .
A. von Antropoff .
bitity o , [ Jan. 22 , The pressure was varied mtil the end of a pointer just touched its image in the surface of the mercury .
The quantity of gas was determined , as in all the later investigations in Ramsay 's laboratory , by measuring the pressure in the previously calibrated burette .
In the apparatus described , the required pressure was conveniently produced by either the taps , through which mel.cury from the vessel could either enter the level tube or discharge through a syphon the vessel F. The difference of levels of the mercury in the burette and in level tube was read by a mlrror-scale .
, and were submer , ed in a large glass beaker , used as a thermostat , containing a stirrer driven by all electromotor ; while at the same time the vessel was shaken by a hook of thick copper wire connected with an eccentric bend of the shaft of the stirrer .
( This arrangement is not shown the drawing .
) the branch of the syphon was cut nearly in the middle , and the capillary tube connected with the apparatus was dipped into a weighed quantity of mercury .
The surface of the mercury in the burette was then brought ( just as for an experiment ) to one of the points ; then the tap was closed , and the air in the burette pumped off by means of a Toplel pump , fused on at .
The passage from the burette to the mercury was then opened by turning the three-way tap , when a definite weight of mercury entered the vacuous space .
This method of calibration has the advantage that it is not necessary to disconnect the burette from the apparatus , and that all conditions are exactly the same during the calibration as an experiment ; the method is , moreover , exceedingly accurate .
The volumes from the tap to the } ) ointers 1 ) , and 11 , for instance , were and were checked a second time and were found to be After removing the apparatus from the thermostat , the vessel was filled with water free from air , and a vessel was fused on .
Water was boiled in , and the dissolvedases were pumped off by means of a filter-pump .
In the meantime , after being evacuated , was filled with mercury , which was then run out through the bottom tap , all except a few cubic centimetres which remained in the apparatus ; the discharged mercury was weighed and its volume calculated .
This space was again evncuated , filled with boiled water , and the vessel cut off .
Introduction of the Gas.\mdash ; The required quantity of gas was drawn into the burette and its volume was determined ; the space between the taps and $vas evacuated , and the tap was turned , so as to make connection with the 1910 .
] on , Neon , .
477 burette .
As in Estreicher 's method , the ) acity of this piece measured by alteration of the quantity in the burette ; then the latter was connected by the tap with B. A cubic centimetres of nercury were from ; its space left in , which is necessary for Dcterm in the thermostat and the set in lnotion .
The ) continued until no of pressure to keep the of mercury nstantly at one of the pointers .
This nlinutes , but the shaking enerally continued for half houl lculntcoil of .\mdash ; If the ) of educed to normal conditions , ( of thepol tion of the not dissolved , the partial pressure of the absorption , the mass of the , then the coefficient of Gion , to Bunsen , is or , according to Kuenen , * and the ) , ( lccoldi ] to Ostwald , is where is the coefficient of ] nsion of density of the water at We have for the } ) where is the capacity of the burette to the ] ) uinlel , , the barometric pressure , the in veen the surfaces in ette a the lube the correction ature for , and the pressure of the absolute tnre .
The undissolved portion of is where is the capacity of the connecting tube between fhc ' Proc. .
Soc. Edinburgh , ' 1 ) .
2 , IJ00 .
478 Mr. A. von Antropoff .
the olubility of Xenon , [ Jan. 22 , absorbing vessel , .
with the space occupied by the gas in the absorbing vessel .
This space is measured separately in every series of } ) eriments , but in the same series it varies with the temperature .
If }-Q is the capacity at the temperature at which it was determined , then at any other temperature the volume , which represents the expansion of the water , must be deducted .
It seems that this correction has often been overlooked .
At higher temperatures and for gases of small solubility it is especially important ; for instance , for the solubility of neon and helium at it produces a difference of nearly 100 per cent. This error is irrespective of the quantity of liquid used , and therefore the correction can ] be applied afterwards .
The complete formula for ) king out the coefficient of absorption , according to KueneI , is as follows:\mdash ; MP or by a transformation , The second term in this formula represents the colTection for the expansion of water in the vessel .
We may assume that the determination of the empty space in the absorbing vessel has been made at indoor temperature , or , and we get then the values for the correction shown in Table I , which used in these calculations and also for correcting Estreicher 's results .
In the numerator of the fraction , signifies ( as in all estimations of the partial pressure of the gas question in its gaseous state .
The solubility has to be reduced from the pressure at which the experiment was carried out to normal pressure , but there are different opini as to whether only the partial pressure of the fJas in the gaseous state has to be considered , or if the pressure of the on the solvent has also to be taken into .
consideration .
The latter is the opinion of Winkler , who added the mean value of is pressure , .
half the of the water in the absorbing vessel .
Estreicher believes such an addition wrong .
In my opinion it depends on the particular conditions of the experiment which calculation is the correct one .
If the of the gas is carried out , for instance , in such a way that bubbles of gas rise from the bottom of the vessel the liquid , the gas on the bottom of the vessel is under the pressure of the watercolumn , and the liquid on the bottom will dissolve more gas than on the surface .
No equilibrium will be established , but the gas will be continuaIly dissolved at the bottom and liberated at the surface .
Here Winkler 's 1910 .
] Krypton , , Neon , and Helinm ?
YVater .
correction must be applied ; or it may be necessary to take into account even the pressure of a greater part of the water-column , according to the rate at which the solvent dissolves and liberates the gas .
It is known that the rate of liberation is much less than the rate of solution .
If , however , the and the liquid meet at the surface only , there is no need to take the pressure of the water-column into consideration .
In my first determination of the ility of xenon , when the whole liquid was filled with bubbles of gas , I applied Winkler 's but in no other experiments was it used ( in this reeing with Estreicher ) , as even during violent shakin from side } side there were no bubbles in the liquid .
The equilil ) was dependent only on the barometric pressure .
Tl , The Tables to III and the diagrams ( fig. 2 ) the results of the nents and calculations .
Table I. Table 11 .
480 Mr. A. von Antropofl .
The bility of Xenon , [ Jan. 22 , Table III .
Table I shows the values of corrections the expansion ) the solvent at different ] nperatures , and also the solubility helium and argon , according to Estreicher , with and without the Ctl.rectiun .
Table II shows the values ( llultiplied by 100 ) which 1 tained for coefficient of absorption , ccording t Kuenen 's series of experiments is indicated by the symbol of the element and an rure .
The following explanations may be added:\mdash ; 1.\mdash ; As already mentioned , the determination was carried out with my filst apparatus .
The volume of was .
at .
The 1-olume of xenon reduced to normal conditions was 2.\mdash ; The solubility was dete ) mined in this as well as in all the other expel.iments with the second apparatus .
In this series the weight of water was rammes , and the original quantity of xenon was .
; the capacity of the connecting tube was , and the gas space in the absorbing vessel , and their was Considering that the results in the series xenon 1 , as mentioned before , could not have been very accurate , there is sufficient reement between the two grammes , The experiments were , enerally carl.ied out , at the higher temperatures ; but the values enclosed in curved brackets were obtained with lising neratule .
rammes , There is a considerable difference between the results of the two series of experiments with krypton ; yet each series gives a fairly good curve .
Probably there is some mistake in one of the original values , which I failed to discover .
The determination could not be repeated .
Both series of 1910 .
] .
481 experiments , howevel curves of similal , and exhibit a ) at the same temperature .
These same ures also apply to the nder , as the apparatuh was not refilled .
They nnot claim rreat accul , as the quantities of absorbed were lall , from to this had to be detel.mined as a difference in a quantity of about 8 \ldquo ; they are fairly accurate , as is evident from a comparison of the two series of expel'iments , well as from the three valnes in the first series at ich } obtained with different points the burclte , and therefore at Table III shows all the btained 1tion , for interv als of for the series xenon both series , the iirst serics neon , and the corrected values for and helinm .
fig. 2 is raphic reproduction of the esults .
The most ' resnlt of hese is all .482 olubility oj Xenon , , Argon , Neon , etc. the rare gases show a distinct minimum of solubility .
Estreicher had already suggested that all gases should necessarily have a minimum at a certain , but he found such a minimum only for helium .
We see now , however , that after applying the correction , argon also clearly shows a at about .
The minimuIn i well marked for xenon and for krypton .
For helium , by applying the correction , the minimum has moved to left about , and now stands at about .
The minimum for neon seems to be at about , but this cannot be positively stated .
The solubility of the rare ases shows a considerable increase with the increasing atomic .
The great solubility of xenon makes this gas especially suitable for the investigation of different phenomena accompanying solubility .
Another interesting feature is that helium and neon show nearly equal solubilities ; there is some reason to believe that one of the determinations is wrong .
Taking the remarks under the neon\ldquo ; into consicteration , it is oable Estreicher 's are correct .
One determination of the solubility of xenon in water has been carried out with an apparatus essentially a modification of Bunsen 's absorptiometer .
second determination for xenon and determinations of the solubilities of krypton and neon made in an apparatus similar to Estreicher 's .
A correction ] previously overlooked has been applied to my results , vell as to Estreicher 's .
The values found by him are thereby sensibly altered , so that argon also shows a minimum soltlbility .
The results of the experiments ( 1 ) in the case of helium and neon , the determinations possibly being erroneous for one of them , the solubility rises with increase of atomic weight .
( 2 ) The sohlbility of xenon is reater than that of any other gas which does not form a compound with the solvent .
( 3 ) All rare gases show a distinct minimum of solubility .
The minimum for xenon and argon lies at ; for krypton between and ; for heliun ] at ' and for neon probably at

