]\gt ; Mr. S. D. Carothers .
pianoforte , especially ( 1 ) the manner in which the amplitudes of the component partial vibrations of the string pend on the position of the striking point ; ( 2 ) the effect of the mass and elasticity of the hammer ; ( 3 ) the characteristics of the coupled vibrations of the string and soundoard of the pianoforte ; ( 4 ) the manner in which these vibrations decay by communication of energy to the atmosphere ; and ( 5 ) the theoretical tion of the quality of pianoforte tone .
Further work on these points , and experimental tests on an actual pianoforte , are now in progress .
In conclusion , the authors wish to thank Dr. Gilbert Walker , F.R.S. , who has taken a lively interest in } work , for his kindness in it before the Royal Society .
Plane : the of Stress .
By S. D. CABOTHEBS , Assoc. M.Inst .
C.E. ( Communicated by Prof. A. E. H. Love , F.R.S. Reoeived December 9 , 1919 .
) ( 1 ) advantages of the direct determination of the stresses in an elastic solid have been pointed out Prof. J. H. lIichell* .
The principal line of attack in the case of plane strain has been by aid of the well-known stress function method , by which the stresses are determined from a single stress function , of and , satisfying where ( 1 ) The lines along which further advance might have been expected , and the difficulties which have been met with , are discussed by Prof. A. E. H. Love .
It seems to the writer , however , that a point of very considerable importance has been overlooked , viz. , that the stress function method gives a set of stresses which can in most cases be resolved into two distinct sets , each of which leads to strains satisfying the identical relations between the strain components .
For example , if is a plane harmonic function , satisfies , and the stresses derived from this by the well-known formulae , and , ( 2 ) 'Proc .
Lond. Math. Soc vol. 31 , p. 100 .
Math. Theory of Elasticity , ' 2nd Edition , p. 211 .
Plane Strain : the Direct Determination of Stress .
can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; , ( 3 ) where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; where Now , on examination it be found , and being each harmonic , that can be replaced by any plane harmonic function and the identical relation between the strain components will be preserved .
This has led the writer to an examination of the various independent types of possible solutions which can be derived by operating direct on plane harmonic functions , instead of operating on , which in general leads to functions of a complicated character .
For the purpose of building up a solution in plane strain by synthesis the advantages of this method will be obvious .
( 2 ) The stress equations of equilibrium in rectangular , in plane polar , and in orthogonal curvilinear co-ordinates , together with the identical relations between the strain components in each case , will be set out in order .
Using the notation of , ' Elasticity , ' 2nd edition , and omitting volume force , these are as follows:\mdash ; The stress equations in rectangular co-ordinates are .
( 4 ) The identical relation between the strain components is In plane polars the similar equations are ' ( 6 ) and .
( 7 ) VOL XCVII.\mdash ; A. I 12 Mr. S. D. Carothers .
In orthogonal curvilinears the equations are bnt these can be transformed to * .
( 8 ) The identical relation between the strain components is .
( 9 ) Stress ( 3 ) As regards equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) there are four solutions which , for convenience of space , may be written in the : ( 10 ) where , and are any constants .
Equations ( 10 ) will be referred to as the " " " " etc. , solutions .
In the " " \ldquo ; and " " \ldquo ; solutions , in the " " \ldquo ; and " " \ldquo ; solutions is any plane harmonic function .
If rence between the \ldquo ; and \ldquo ; solutions is of the type as the " " \ldquo ; solution .
( 4 ) As regards equations ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) the solntions are : ( 11 ) where th same meaning is attached to and as obtains in equations ( 10 ) .
Strain : the Direct Determination of Stress .
( 5 ) To obtain the solution of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) , when direct solution must be found .
If and are functions , that , it is easily shown that and .
( 12 ) from which it follows that and When , equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) are satisfied by the solutions , ( 13 ) and .
( 14 ) These equivalent respectively to the same stress systells as ] sets ( I5 ) Mr. S. D. Carothers .
and .
( 16 ) The above stress systems are the two-dimensional analogue of Maxwell 's well-known three-dimensional stress system , but the objections to the latter*as applying to an elastic body slightly strained from a state of no stress and free from body forces , as contemplated in equations ( 8 ) of this paper , do not apply to two-dimension stress .
Other solutions when will be referred to later .
( 6 ) To obtain a direct solution of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) when is not zero appears to the writer to be a matter of great difficulty , but this can be overcome by the transformation of the\ldquo ; \ldquo ; and\ldquo ; \ldquo ; solutions of equations ( 10 ) to curvilinear -ordinates .
It can also be overcome by the direct differentiation of .
Using first the transformation method , the " " \ldquo ; solution ives stresses on any orthogonal curves The " " \ldquo ; solution gives stresses on as follows:\mdash ; If the above solutions are added the stresses are ; See Love , ' Elasticity , ' 2nd Edition , pp. 82 and 133 .
Planae : the Direct Determination of Stress .
where since ( 7 ) If and are homogeneous and of the nth degree in and equations ( 19 ) take the form .
( 20 ) ( 8 ) Conjugate functions .
When the curves and are conjugate functions , the\ldquo ; and " " \ldquo ; solutions take the form .
( 21 ) when or When .
is not equal to zero , solutions may be easily obtained from the general results of equations ( 19 ) by writing , and this solution need not be repeated : ( 9 ) To obtain the stresses in orthogonal curvilinears by direct differentiation , take the axes of and normal to the curves and at any point in the region .
If is a solution of the stresses will be by , etc. , and it remains to find , etc. , in terms of curvilinears .
There is no difficulty in showing that if is function of , and also of .
( 22 ) Mr. S. D. Carothers .
If satishes , and be given by equations ( 22 ) respectively , and if is harmonic equations ( 22 ) will be a solution of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) when ( 10 ) If , where ] ' , axes may be selected at the parallel to the normals to the curves and at any point .
We have .
( 23 ) It is seen at once at and it is easily shown that and from these and similar relations it can be shown that , if is an harmonic function , the above value of can be expressed in the form ' ( 24 ) and similarly and can be found .
If we write the results are as .
( 26 ) It is clear from the form and origin of these results that is harmonic if is harmonic , and thus it is seen at once from equation ( 25 ) that is also harmonic if is harmonic .
: the Direct Determination of It follows from this that can be replaced by any plane harnlonic function , and the results obtained here are precisely the same as those given in equations ( 19 ) .
( 11 ) Adopting the notation of , and , for the stresses when is replaced by in equations ( 22 ) , and now in the same equations , replacing V , where , we obtain with similar results for and .
Taking account of the solution of equations ( 13 ) we deduce at once that ' is a con sistent solution of equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) when ( 12 ) The results will be applied to the solution of a few examplea In the case of a solid an unlimited plane upper boundary , given by , to determine the stresses due to normal pressure increasing uniformly as the distance from a given straight line in the plane Take the axis of ' in the plane at right angles to the iven straight line , the axis of being drawn into the solid .
Take and the system stresses .
( 28 ) On the plane there is normal pressure , for positive , all the rest of the surface eing free .
zero everywhere on the same plane .
In this example is measured from the axi\amp ; Mr. S. D. Carothers .
( 13 ) If now uniformly increasing tension is taken , commencing at the point , and combined with the preceding , loading ab shown in is obtained .
There is no difficulty in showing that the stresses when reduced to the same axes are as follows:\mdash ; The normal stress on the plane is ( 29 ) , for in the interval , for in the interval zero for in the interval and everywhere on same plane .
( 14 ) The stresses due to uniform tension per umit of area , over one-half of an mimited plane boundary to a solid , have been given by the stress function method , as the result is required in the next example , it may be permitted to obtain it by the method of the present paper .
Put , ( 30 ) ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. of Edin vol. 33 , Part III , No. 26 , p. 294 .
Plane Strain : the Direct Determination of Stress .
and take the scheme of stresses .
( 31 ) If in this case the origin is transferred to the point , the above stresses become .
( 32 ) These give normal tension of intensity over the plane to , all the remainder of the surface being free .
15 .
If the results of equations ( 29 ) and ( 32 ) are added together , there is obtained loading as shown in fig. 2 , all the rest of the surface being free .
stresses due to this loading are as follows:\mdash ; stresses dne to this loading are as follows:\mdash ; stresses dne to this loading are as follows:\mdash ; stresses dne to this loading are as follows:\mdash ; ( 33 ) Mr. S. D. Carothers .
( 16 ) Thele is no in obtainiug from the foregoing the results .
for triangular of maximum intensity as shbwn in fig. 3 .
The stresses are - As these results are of some practical importance , the stresses could be expressed more simply by writing , and , where , and are measured from the planes .
and respectively , and are positive on the side on which increases and negative on the other Plane Strain : the Direct Determination of Stres .
The stresses at the point , for example , could be written thus : 1 ( 17 ) The following example is of considerable theoretical interest .
Consider an infinitely long slab of thickness , the axis of ?
bein in the central plane of the slab , as shown in fig. 5 .
cen ra FIC Mr. S. D. Carothers .
If we take then the scheme of stresses ' ( 36 ) gives tension over the central half of the edge of intensity and pressure of equal intensity over the remainder .
There are certain shearing stresses on the edge , but these are in equilibrium and may be considered as having a purely local effect .
The normal pressures and tensions on the edge are in equilibrium , and it will be a matter of reat interest to ascertain to what depth their effect penetrates .
As the solution is of special interest , the stresses of equations ( 36 ) will be written in full and are as .
( 37 ) There are normal tensions on the faces of i1ltensity but these can be removed by the introduction of a suitable series of stress terms , as follows:\mdash ; ( 38 ) where , ( 39 ) and Plane Strain : the Direct Determination of Stress .
The coefficients can be obtained by graphical integration .
It may be remarked that there is no risk that the terms in the series 38 ) will remove the stresses on the edge at the same time as the stresses on the faoes are reduced to zero .
To see this it is only necessary to remark that is everywhere zero on the edge except at the single point It will be found that the stresses fall off in intensity as increases with extreme rapidity , and this example affords confirmation , if such were needed , of the accuracy of the principle of equipollent loads .
( 18 ) The function when applied to slabs of thickness , will afford interesting examples .
In this case it will be easy to arrange for nuclei of stress on the edges formed by the intersection of the plane and the faces \mdash ; For example , affords such a case , and other interesting cases will present themselves .
( 19 ) The movements to equations ( 10 ) and in the case of the examples can be calculated by the method given in Love 's 'Elasticity , ' 2nd edit .
, } ) .

