Description of a reflective Goniometer .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 8 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 253 .
] The instrument here described by the author is designed to obviate the inconvenience which has been found in attempting to measure any small crystals by the instruments hitherto used for that purpose .
When a surface is so small as one fiftieth of an inch in breadth , it becomes extremely difficult to apply the short radius of a goniometer to it with correctness .
But since a surface of that magnitude may reflect a very brilliant light , the reflected ray may be employed as radius , and may at pleasure be taken of such a length that the angles of small crystals can be known with as much precision as those of the largest surfaces .
The crystal being attached to a horizontal axis , with its edge in the line of the axis , one of the surfaces is made to reflect some bright light to the eye ; and , while the eye is retained steadily in the same place , the axis is turned till the second surface reflects the same light , and is consequently in the same position .
The number of degrees through which the axis has turned being the supplement to the required angle , the angle itself is indicated by the graduations of a circle which moves with the axis ; but the complete construction of the instrument cannot be distinctly understood without reference to a figure that accompanies the paper .
Since any inaccuracy in placing the crystal would occasion some error by parallax in this method of using the instrument , the author describes a second method , by which all error may be entirely obviated .
By placing the crystal so that the image of some distant object is brought to correspond with some other object by one of its surfaces , the position of that surface is determined with precision , and the second surface may be brought round to the same position with the utmost accuracy .
With this instrument the author has remarked an error in the supposed angle of the primitive crystal of carbonate of lime , which , instead of being 104ยง 28 ' 40 " , as it is now considered by writers on crystallography , appears to the author to be correctly 1050 , as it was formerly measured by Huygens and by Sir Isaac Newton .
z

