Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. I7r motion was 0'3 millim. Another earthquake ( on November 10 ) which , judged by its shaking effects on houses , \amp ; c. , seemed to be of much greater violence than the first , gave a record which showed that its greater intensity was due , not to greater extent of movement but to greater frequency in the waves ; for their amplitude was even somewhat smaller , but their frequency about three times greater than in the former case .
There were , however , at the beginning of this earthquake a few waves of long period , upon which the above-mentioned short waves were superposed : after them the motion con .
sisted of nothing but an irregular ripple of short waves .
These results show that a higher ratio of multiplication is desirable .
The description which has been given applies , with insignificant modifications , to the instrument now in use at the University of Tokio .
In making a second instrument the writer would introduce some changes by way of adding to the stability of the bob and diminishing the friction .
Its mass and its moment of inertia might be increased without increasing the distance between the axes and by making it in the form of a hollow ring , and placing the vertical part of the lever c inside .
To reduce the friction connexion between the lever and its supports on the line might be given by pressure against horizontal friction wheels , two at the top and two at the bottom , the fifth degree of constraint being supplied by the pressure of a rounded steel foot against an agate plate in the base .
Other modifications might be mentioned , but the author 's object in this paper has been not so much to describe constructive details as to explain the principle on which the action of the new seismograph depends .
February 1 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Viscosity of Gases at ..High Exhaustions .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received December 26 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) By the viscosity or internal friction of a gas , is meant the resistance it offers to the gliding of one portion over another .
In a paper read 1881 .
] On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions .
before the British Association in 1859 , Maxwell* presented the remarkable result that on theoretical grounds the coefficient of friction , , or the viscosity , should be independent of the density of the gas , although at the same time he states that the only experiments he had met with on the subject did not seem to confirm his views .
An elaborate series of experiments were undertaken by Maxwell to test so remarkable a consequence of a mathematical theory ; and in 1866 , in the Bakerian Lecture for that year , f he published the results under the title of " The Viscosity or Internal Friction of Air and other Gases .
" He found the coefficient of friction in air to be practically constant for pressures between 30 inches and 0'5 inch ; in fact numbers calculated on the hypothesis that the viscosity was independent of the density agreed very well with the observed values .
The apparatus used by Maxwell was not of a character to admit of experiments with much lower pressure than 0*5 inch .
Maxwell 's theory , that the viscosity of a gas is independent of the density , presupposes that the mean length of path of the molecules between their collisions is very small compared with the dimensions of the apparatus ; but inasmuch as the mean length of path increases directly with the expansion , whilst the distance between the molecules only increases with the cube root of the expansion , it is not difficult with the Sprengel pump to produce an exhaustion in which the mean free path is measured by inches , and even feet , and at exhaustions of this degree it is probable that Maxwell 's law would not hold good .
The experiments recorded in this paper were commenced early in 1876 , and have been continued to the present time .
In November , .
1876 , the author gave a note to the Boyal Society on some preliminary results .
Several different forms of apparatus have since been used one after the other , with improvements and complexities suggested by experience or rendered possible by the extra skill acquired in manipulation .
The earlier observations are now of little value , but the time-spent in their prosecution was not thrown away , as out of those experiments has grown the very complicated apparatus now finally adopted .
The viscosity torsion apparatus with which all the experiments here-given have been performed , is a very complicated instrument , and cannot be well understood without the accompanying drawings .
It consists essentially of a glass bulb , blown with a point at the lower end , and sealed on to a long narrow glass tube .
In the bulb is suspended a plate of mica , by means of a fine fibre of glass , 26 inches long , which is sealed to the top of the glass tube , and hangs vertically along its axis .
The plate of mica is ignited and lamp-blacked over one-half .
The tube is pointed at the upper end , the upper and lower points are 46 inches apart , and are accurately in the prolongation of * " Phil. Mag. , " 4th ser. , vol. xix , p. 31 .
t " Phil. Trans. , " 1866 , Part I , p. 249 .
448 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. 17 the axis of the tube .
Sockets are firmly fixed to a solid support so that when the tube and bulb are clamped between them they are only able to move around the vertical axis .
The glass fibre being only connected with the tube at the top , rotating the tube on its axis communicates torsion to the fibre , and sets the mica plate swinging on the same axis without giving it any pendulous movement .
The diameter of the fibre is about O'OOl inch .
The viscosity apparatus is connected to the pump by a flexible glass spiral , so as to allow the apparatus to rotate on the pivots and at the same time to be connected to the pump altogether with sealed glass joints .
An arm working between metal stops , limits the rotation to the small angle only which is necessary .
The torsional movement given to the mica plate , by the light of the candle shining on it or by the rotation of the bulb and tube on its axis by the movement of the arm between the stops , is measured by a beam of light from a lamp , reflected from a mirror to a graduated scale .
The pump employed has already been described .
The measuring apparatus is similar to that described by Professor McLeod* before the Physical Society , June 13th , 1874 .
As it contains several improvements shown by experience to be necessary when working at very high vacua , a detailed description is given in the paper .
When taking an observation the arm is moved over to the stop , and in a few seconds allowed to return to its original position by the action of a spring .
This movement rotates the viscosity apparatus through a small angle , and sets the mica plate vibrating , the reflected line of light traversing from one side of the scale to the other in arcs of diminishing amplitude till it finally settles down once more at zero .
The observer watching the moving index of light records the scale number reached at the extremity of each arc .
The numbers being alternately on one and the other side of zero are added two by two together , to get the value of each oscillation .
The logarithms of these values are then found and their differences taken ; the mean of these differences is logarithmic decrement per swing of the arc of oscillation .
For the sake of brevity this is called the log dec. A very large number of experiments have been made on the viscosity of air and other gases .
Observations have been taken at as high an exhaustion as 0'02 M , but at these high points they are not sufficiently concordant to be trustworthy .
The pump will exhaust to this point without difficulty if a few precautions are taken , but at this low pressure the means of measuring fail , in accuracy .
The precautions which experience shows to be necessary when exhausting to the highest points are fully described in the paper .
* " Phil. Mag. , " vol. xlviii , p. 110 , August , 1874 .
1881.1 On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions .
449 Viscosity of Air .
The mean of a very large number of closely concordant results gives as the log decrement for air for the special apparatus employed , at a pressure of 760 millims. of mercury and a temperature of 15 ' C. , the number 0*1124 .
According to Maxwell , the viscosity should remain constant until the rarefaction becomes so great that we are no longer at liberty to consider the mean free path of the molecules as practically insignificant in comparison with the dimensions of the vessel .
The author 's observations show that this theoretical result of Maxwell 's is at least approximately and may be accurately true in air up to such exhaustions as are above referred to ; and that at higher exhaustions the viscosity falls off , as it might be expected to do according to theory .
The results are embodied in a table and diagrams .
The first half of the table gives the viscosity of air , in so far as it is represented by the log decrement , at pressures intermediate between 760 millims. and 0*76 millim. ( 1,000 millionths of an atmosphere ) .
In order to avoid the inconvenience of frequent reference to small fractions of a millimetre , the millionth of an atmosphere* ( =M ) is now taken as the unit instead of the millimetre .
The second half of the table is therefore given in millionths , going up to an exhaustion of 0*02 millionth of an atmosphere .
Starting from the log decrement 0*1124 at 0*760 millim. , the viscosity diminishes very regularly but at a somewhat decreasing rate .
Between 50 millims. and 3 millims. the direction is almost vertical , and a great change in the uniformity of the viscosity curve commences at a pressure of about 3 millims. At this point the previous approximation to , or coincidence with , Maxwell 's law begins to fail , and further pumping considerably reduces the log decrement .
From 1,000 M the diminution of viscosity is very slight until the exhaustion reaches about 250 M ; after that it gets less with increasing rapidity , and falls away quickly after 35 M is reached .
The curves of increasing mean free path and diminishing viscosity closely agree .
This agreement is more than a mere coincidence , and is likely to throw much light on the cause of viscosity of gases .
In the table is also given the measurements of the repulsion exerted on the blackened end of the mica plate by a candle-flame placed 500 millims. off .
The repulsion due to radiation commences just at about the same degree of exhaustion where the viscosity begins to decline rapidly , and it principally comes in at the exhaustions above 1,000 M. The close agreement between the loss of viscosity and the increased action of radiation is very striking up to the 35 millionth , when the repulsion curve turns round and falls away as rapidly as the viscosity .
* 1 M=0 00076 millim. ; 1315*789 M = 1 millim. 450 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. 17 Experiments are next described on the resistance of air to the passage of an induction spark .
Since the publication of the author 's researches on the phenomena presented by the passage of the induction discharge through high vacua , the present results\#151 ; which , although never published , precede by a year or two those just mentioned\#151 ; have lost much of their-interest .
The phenomena at the very high exhaustion of 0*02 M may he of interest .
With a coil giving a spark 85 millims. long , no discharge whatever passes .
On increasing the battery power till the striking distance in air was 100 millims. the spark occasionally passed through as an intermittent flash , bringing out faint green phosphorescence on the glass round the end of the \#151 ; pole .
On one occasion the author obtained a much higher exhaustion than 0'02 M. It could not be measured , but from the repulsion by radiation and the low log decrement it was probably about 0'01 M. The terminals of the vacuum tube and wires leading to them were well insulated , and the full power of a coil giving a 20-inch spark was put on to it .
At first nothing was to be seen .
Then a brilliant green light flashed through the tube , getting more and more frequent .
Suddenly a spark passed from a wire to the glass tube , and broke it , terminating the experiment .
Since these experiments , vacua have frequently been got as high , and even higher , but the author has never seen one that would long resist the 20-inch spark from his large coil .
Viscosity of Oxygen .
The series of experiments with air show a complete history of its-behaviour between very wide limits of pressure .
It became interesting to see how the two components of air , oxygen and nitrogen , would behave under similar circumstances .
Experiments were therefore instituted exactly as in the case of dry air , but with the apparatus filled* with pure oxygen .
The results are given in the form of tables and plotted as curves on diagrams .
The figures show a great similarity to the air curve .
Like it the log decrement sinks somewhat rapidly between pressures from 760 millims. to about 75 millims. It then remains almost steady , not varying much till a pressure of 16 millims. is reached .
Here , however , it turns in the opposite direction , and increases up to 1'5 millim. It then diminishes again , and at higher exhaustions it rapidly sinks .
This increase of viscosity at pressures of a few millimetres has been observed in other gases , but only to so small an extent as to be scarcely beyond the limits of experimental error .
In the case of 1881 .
] On the Viscosity of Gases at High .
451 oxygen , however , the increase is too great to be entirely attributable to this cause .
Oxygen has more viscosity than any gas yet examined .
The viscosity of air at 760 millims. being 0*1124 , the proportion between that of air and oxygen , according to these results , is 1*1185 .
This proportion of 1*1185 holds good ( allowing for experimental .errors ) up to a pressure of about 20 millims. Between that point and 1 millim. variations occur , which have not been traced to any assignable cause : they seem large to be put down to " experimental errors .
" The discrepancies disappear again at an exhaustion of about 1 millim. , and from that point to the highest hitherto reached the proportion of 1*1185 is fairly well maintained .
Viscosity of Nitrogen .
The proportion between the viscosities of nitrogen and air at a pressure of 760 millims. is , according to these experiments , 0*9715 .
A comparison of the air curves with those given by oxygen and nitrogen gives some interesting results .
The composition of the atmosphere is , by bulk , * Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
20*8 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
79*2 100*0 The viscosity of the two gases is almost exactly in the same proportion : thus at 760 millims.\#151 ; 20*8 vis .
0 + 79*2 vis .
N . .
---------------------=vis .
air , 20*8(0*1257 ) + 79*2(0*1092 ) _ 2*61456 +8*64072__0:imn 100 ' a result closely coinciding with 0*1124 , the experimental result for air .
Up to an exhaustion of about 80 M the same proportion between the viscosities of air , oxygen , and nitrogen is preserved with but little variation .
From that point divergence occurs between the individual curves of the three gases .
Observations on the spectrum of-nitrogen are next given .
The curve of repulsion exerted by radiation is plotted on the diagrams .
It is much lower than in oxygen or air , and sinks rapidly after the maximum is passed .
Viscosity of Carbonic Anhydride .
The curves of this gas are given in diagrams plotted from the Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. 17 , observations .
At first the curve seems to follow the same direction as the air curve .
But at a pressure of about 620 millims. it slopes more rapidly till the pressure is reduced to about 50 millims. , when the curve again takes the direction of the air curve .
The total diminution between 760 millims. and 1 millim. is nearly double that of air. .
The proportion between the viscosity of carbonic anhydride and air at 760 millims. is 0i9208 .
Viscosity of Carbonic Oxide .
The results with this gas are remarkable as showing an almost complete identity with those of nitrogen both in position and shape -The viscosity at 760 millims. is in each case 0'1092 .
Like that of nitrogen , the curve of carbonic oxide is seen to be vertical , i.e. , assuming the curve to represent the viscosity , the gas obeys ; Maxwell 's law , at pressures between 90 millims. and 3 millims. The straight portion in nitrogen is at a little higher pressure , \#151 ; between 100 millims. and 6 millims. The curve of repulsion resulting from radiation is lower in carbonic oxide than in any other gas examined , and , unlike the other gases , , there is no sudden rise to a maximum at about 40 M. At lower exhaustions the curve is , however , higher than it is in nitrogen .
Viscosity of Hydrogen .
It has been found that hydrogen has much less viscosity than any other gas ; the fact of the log decrement not decreasing by additional attempts at purification is the test of its being free from admixture-This method of ascertaining the purity of the gas , by the uniformity of its viscosity coefficient at 760 millims. , is more accurate than collecting samples and analysing them eudiometrically .
Several series of observations in hydrogen have been taken .
For a long time it was considered that hydrogen , like other gases , showed the same slight departure from Maxwell 's law of viscosity being independent of density that appeared to be indicated with other gases ; for the log decrement persistently diminished as the exhaustion increased , even at such moderate pressures as could be measured by the barometer gauge .
Had it not been that the rate of decrease was not uniform in the different series of observations , it might have been considered that this variation from Maxwell 's law was due to some inherent property of all gases .
After working at the subject for more than a year , it was discovered that the discrepancy arose from a trace of water obstinately held by the hydrogen .
Since discovering this property , extra precautions ( already described at the commencement of this paper ) have been taken to dry all gases before entering the apparatus .
1881 .
] On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions .
458The remarkable character of hydrogen is the uniformity of resistance which it presents .
It obeys Maxwell 's law almost absolutely up to an exhaustion of about 700 M , and then it commences to break down .
Up to this point the line of viscosity is almost vertical .
It then commences to curve over , and when the mean free path assumes proportions comparable with the dimensions of the bulb , and approaches infinity , the viscosity curve in like manner draws near the zero line .
The repulsive force of radiation is higher in hydrogen than in any other gas .
It commences at as low an exhaustion as 14 millims. , but does not increase to any great extent till an- exhaustion of 200 M is attained ; it then rises rapidly to a maximum at between 40 and 60 M , after which it falls away to zero .
The maximum repulsion exerted by radiation in hydrogen is to that in air as 70 to 42'6 .
This fact is now utilised in the construction of radiometers and similar instruments when great sensitiveness is required .
Taking the viscosity of air at 760 millims. as 0-1124 , and hydrogen as 0'0499 , the proportion between them is 0*4439 .
The Spectrum , of Hydrogen .
The red line ( \=6562 ) , the green line ( \=4861 ) , and the blue line ( \=4340 ) are seen at their brightest at a pressure of about 3 millims. , and after that exhaustion they begin to diminish in intensity .
As exhaustion proceeds , a variation in visibility of the three lines is observed .
Thus at 36 millims. the red line is seen brightly , the green faintly , whilst the blue line cannot be detected .
At 15 millims. the blue line is serai , and the three keep visible till an exhaustion of 418 M is reached , when the blue line becomes difficult to see .
At 38 M only the red and green lines are visible , the red being very faint .
It is seen with increasing difficulty up to an exhaustion of 2 M , when it can be seen no longer .
The green line now remains visible up to an exhaustion of 0"37 M , beyond which it has not been seen .
It is worthy of remark that although , when working with pure hydrogen , the green line is always the last to go , it is not the first to appear when hydrogen is present as an impurity in other gases .
Thus when working with cai'bonic anhydride insufficiently purified , the red hydrogen line is often seen , but never the green or the blue line .
Influence of Aqueous Vapour on the Viscosity of Air .
In the foregoing experiments many discrepancies were traced to the presence of moisture in the gas .
The influence of aqueous vapour-does not appear to be great when present in moderate amount in gas of normal density , but at high exhaustions it introduces errors which interfere with the uniformity of the results .
A series of experiments were accordingly undertaken to trace the special action of aqueous , vapour when mixed with air .
Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. 17 , Up to a pressure of about 350 millims. the presence of aqueous vapour has little or no influence on the viscosity of air .
The two curves are , in fact , superimposed .
At this point , however , divergence commences , and the curve rapidly bends over , the viscosity falling from 0*0903 to 0*0500 , between 50 and 7 millims. pressure .
Here it joins the hydrogen curve , and between 7 millims. and 1 millim. they appear to be identical .
These results are partly to be explained by the peculiar action of water vapour in the apparatus .
At the normal pressure the amount of aqueous vapour present in the air , supposing it to be saturated , is only about 13 parts in a million , and the identity of the log decrement with that of dry air shows that this small quantity of water has no appreciable action on the viscosity .
When the pump is set to work the air is gradually removed , whilst the aqueous vapour is kept supplied from the reservoir of liquid .
As the exhaustion approaches the tension of aqueous vapour , evaporation goes on at a greater rate , and the vapour displaces the air with increasing rapidity ; until , after the pressure of 12*7 millims. is passed , the aqueous vapour acts as a gas , and , being constantly supplied from the reservoir of water ( as long as it lasts ) , washes out all the air from the apparatus , the log decrement rapidly sinking to that of pure water gas .
This explanation requires that the viscosity of pure aqueous vapour should be the same as that of hydrogen , at all events between 7 millims. and 1 millim. pressure .
The facts can , however , be explained in another way .
During the action of the Sprengel pump sufficient electricity is some times generated to render the fall tubes luminous in the dark .
It is conceivable that under such electrical influence the falling mercury may be able to decompose aqueous vapour at these high exhaustions , with formation of oxide of mercury and liberation of hydrogen .
Of these two theories the latter appears to be the more probable .
The presence of water vapour shows itself likewise in the very slight amount of repulsion produced by radiation .
Repulsion commences in air at a pressure of 12 millims. , whilst at a higher exhaustion the maximum effect rises to over 40 divisions .
Here , however , repulsion does not begin till the exhaustion is higher than the barometer gauge will indicate , whilst the maximum action after long-continued pumping is only 9 divisions .
Viscosity of Kerosoline Vapour .
The rapid diminution of viscosity in the last experiment after reaching the pressure of 400 millims. is probably due to the aqueous vapour in the air being near its liquefying point .
It was thought advisable to test this hypothesis by employing a somewhat less easily condensible vapour , which could be introduced into the apparatus without 1881 .
] On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions .
any admixture of air .
An experiment was accordingly tried with a very volatile hydrocarbon , commercially known as kerosoline , boiling at a little above the ordinary temperature .
The vapour of this body was introduced into the well-exhausted apparatus , when the gauge at once sank 82*5 millims. After the usual precautions to eliminate air a series of observations were taken .
The loss of viscosity is more rapid than with any other gas examined except aqueous vapour .
Conversely a very great increase of viscosity occurs on increasing the pressure from 8 to 82'5 millims. The explanation of this is that the vapour of kerosoline is very near its liquefying point , and therefore very far from the state of a " perfect " gas .
The negative bend in the curve at about 10 millims. pressure , already noticed with other gases , is strongly marked with this hydrocarbon vapour .
Discussion of Results .
When discussing the viscosity results obtained with the different gases experimented with , the author gives the following approximate comparison of viscosities , such as is afforded by a comparison of the log decrements of each gas and that of air , comparing the ratio with that obtained by Graham , Kundt and Warburg , and Maxwell .
Graham .
Kundt and Warburg .
Maxwell , Crookes .
Air 1 -oooo 1 1099 0 971 0-971 0-807 0 -4855 1 -oooo 1-0000 1-0000 1 1185 0 -9715 0-9715 0 -9208 0-4439 Oxygen Nitrogen Carbonic oxide .
* * * ' * Carbonic anhydride T 0-806 0*488 0-859 0 -5156 Hydrogen , t , , Graham 's numbers are the theoretical results deduced from his experiments on transpiration of gases .
They , are , he says , * the numbers to which the transpiration times of the gases approximate and in which they have their limit .
Graham concludes that the " times of oxygen , nitrogen , carbonic oxide , and air are directly as their densities , or equal weights of these gases pass in equal times .
Hydrogen passes in half the time of nitrogen , or twice as rapidly for equal volumes .
The result for carbonic acid appears at first anomalous .
It is that the transpiration time of this gas is inversely proportional to its density when compared with oxygen .
" The proportion between air and oxygen , nitrogen , or carbonic oxide is not very different at any degree of exhaustion to that which it is at * Loc .
cit. } pp. 178,179 .
VOL. XXXI .
456 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. 17 760 millims. Carbonic anhydride , however , is different ; the proportion between it and air holds good between 760 and 650 millims. Then it gets lower and lower as the pressure sinks , until 50 or 55 millims. is reached , when the proportion between it and air becomes constant .
Hydrogen , however , is entirely different to the other gases ; its log decrement remains the same to a very high exhaustion , and , that of other gases sinking , it is evident that the proportion between this gas and any other is different for each pressure .
It must not be forgotten that the pressure of 760 millims. is not one of the constants of Nature , but is a purely arbitrary one , selected for our own convenience when working near the level of the sea .
In the diagrams accompanying the paper the author has started from this pressure of 760 millims. , and has given the log decrement curves which approximately represent the viscosities through a wide range of exhaustion .
But the curves might also be continued , working downwards instead of upwards .
From the shape and direction in which they cut the 760 line it is reasonable to infer their further progress downwards , and we may assume that an easily liquefiable gas will show a more rapid increase in viscosity than one which is difficult to liquefy by pressure .
For instance , hydrogen , the least condensible of all gases , shows no tendency to increase in log decrement by pressure .
Oxygen and nitrogen , which are only a little less difficult to condense than hydrogen , show a slight increase in log decrement .
Carbonic anhydride , which liquefies at a pressure of 56 atmospheres at 15 ' C. , increases so rapidly in log decrement that at this pressure it would have a log decrement of about 1'3 , representing an amount of resistance to motion that it is difficult to conceive anything of the nature of gas being capable of exerting .
Kerosoline vapour is rendered liquid by pressure much more readily than carbonic anhydride .
Its curve shows a great increase in density for a very slight access of pressure .
Again , aqueous vapour is condensible to the liquid form with the greatest readiness ; and the almost horizontal direction of the curve representing aqueous vapour mixed with air carries out the hypothesis .
It follows , then , that Maxwell 's law holds good for perfect gases .
The disturbing influence spoken of in the commencement of this paper as occasioning a variation from Maxwell 's law , is the tendency to liquefaction , which prevents us from speaking of any gas as " perfect , " and which hinders it from obeying Boyle and Mariotte 's law .
The nearer a gas obeys this law the.1 more closely does it conform to Maxwell 's law .
Maxwell 's law was discovered as the consequence of a mathematical theory .
It presupposes the existence of gas in a " perfect " state\#151 ; a state practically unknown to physicists , although hydrogen gas very nearly approaches that state .
An ordinary gas may be said to be 1881 .
] On the Viscosity of Gases at High Exhaustions .
457 bounded , as regards its physical state , on the one side by the sub-gaseous or liquid condition , and on the other side by the ultra-j gaseous condition .
A gas assumes the former state when condensed by pressure or cold , and it changes to the latter state when highly rarefied .
Before actually assuming either of these states there is a kind of foreshadowing of change , with partial loss of gaseity .
When the molecules , by pressure or cold , are made to approach each other more closely , they begin to enter the sphere of each other 's attraction , and therefore the amount of pressure or cold necessary to produce a certain density is less than the theoretical amount by the internal attraction exerted on each other by the molecules .
The nearer the gas approaches the point of liquefaction the greater is the attraction of one molecule to another , and the amount of pressure required to produce any given density will be proportionally less than that theoretically required by a " perfect " gas .
The Ultra-gaseous State of Matter .
After some theoretical considerations respecting the viscosity of gases , the author concludes with the detailed statement of his theory of the existence of an ultra-gaseous state of matter .
A consideration of the curves of the gases , especially hydrogen , which are given in the paper , will confirm the supposition that a gas , as the exhaustions become extreme , gradually loses its gaseous characteristics , and passes to an ultra-gaseous state .
An objection has been raised touching the existence of ultra-gaseous matter in highly exhausted electrical tubes , that the special phenomena of radiation and phosphorescence which the author has considered characteristic of this form of matter can be made to occur at much lower pressures than that which exhibits the maximum effects .
For the sake of argument let us assume that the state of ultra gas with its associated phenomena is at the maximum at a millionth of an atmosphere .
Here the mean free path is about 4 inches long , sufficient to strike across the exhausted tube .
But it has been shown by many experimentalists that at exhaustions so low that the contents of the tube are certainly not in the ultra-gaseous state , the phenomena of phosphorescence can be observed .
This circumstance had not escaped the author 's notice .
In his first paper on the " Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure and the Trajectory of Molecules , " * the author drew attention to the fact that a molecular ray producing green phosphorescence can be projected 102 millims. from the negative pole when the pressure is as high as 0'324 millim. , or 427 M. In this case the mean free path of the molecules is 0'23 millim. ; and it is not surprising that with more powerful induction discharges , and with * " Phil. Trans. , " Part I , 1879 .
The Bakerian Lecture .
2 k 2 458 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
[ Feb. 17 , special appliances for exalting the faint action to be detected , the-above-named phenomena can be produced at still higher pressures .
It must be remembered that we know nothing of the absolute length of the free path or the absolute velocity of a molecule ; these may vary almost from zero to infinity .
We must limit ourselves to the mean free path and the mean velocity , and all that these experiments show is that a few molecules can travel more than a hundred times the mean free path , and with perhaps a corresponding increase over the mean velocity , before they are stopped by collisions .
With weak electrical power the special phosphorogenic action of these few molecules is too faint to be noticed ; but by intensifying the discharge the action of the molecules can be so increased as to render their presence visible .
It is also probable that the absolute velocity of the molecules is increased so as to make the mean velocity with which they leave the-negative pole greater than that of ordinary gaseous molecules .
This being the case , they will not easily be stopped or deflected by collisions , but will drive through obstacles , and so travel to a greater distance .
If this view is correct , it does not follow that gas and ultra gas can coexist in the same vessel .
All that can be legitimately inferred is , , that the two states insensibly merge one into the other , so that at an intermediate point we can by appropriate means exalt either the phenomena due to gas or to ultra gas .
The same thing occurs between the states of solid and liquid , and liquid and gas .
Tresca 's experiments on the flow of solids prove that lead and even iron , at the common temperature , possess properties which strictly appertain to liquids , , whilst Andrews has shown that liquid and gas may be made to merge gradually one into the other , so that at an intermediate point the substance partakes of the properties of both states .
" Note on the Reduction of Mr. Crookes 's Experiments on the Decrement of the Arc of Vibration of a Mica Plate Oscillating within a Bulb containing more or less rarefied Gas .
" By Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 17 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The determination of the motion of the gas within the bulb , which would theoretically lead to a determination of the coefficient of viscosity of the gas , forms a mathematical problem of hopeless difficulty .
Nevertheless we are able , by attending to the condition of similarity of the motion in different cases , to compare the viscosities of the different gases for as many groups of corresponding pressures as we please .
Setting aside certain minute corrections , which would have vanished

