244 Sir Norman Lockyer and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Jan. 14 , " The Relation between Solar Prominences and Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.E.S. , and William J. S. Lockyer , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.A.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read January 29 , 1903 .
[ Plates 4 and 5 .
] It has been stated in a previous communication* that a preliminary reduction of the Roman observations of prominences , observed on the sun 's limb by Tacchini , indicated that , in addition to main epochs of maxima and minima of prominences coinciding in time with those of the maxima and minima of the total spotted area , there are also prominent subsidiary maxima and minima .
One of us has pointed out in a recent communication to the Academy des Sciences t that a comparison of the frequency of prominences visible in each solar latitude with the frequency of the most intense magnetic storms , indicated that ( a ) magnetic storms classed as " great " by Ellis , and the greatest prominence activity near the poles of the sun occurred at the same time ; and ( ) that the curve of general magnetic activity was nearly the same as that of the prominences observed near the solar equator .
The object of the present communication-is to give a more detailed account of the research so far as it has gone .
The Observations of Prominences .
The fine series of observations , made by Tacchini , of the numbers and latitudes of prominences seen on the sun 's limb was used as a basis for the curves discussed .
These observations were commenced in 1872 , and have been continued up to the present day , so that we have a valuable continuous record .
They have been published from time to time in full detail , thus rendering it possible to deal with them in any manner that may be desired .
In the reduction of the observations each zone of 10 ' was examined and discussed by itself .
The observations were divided in the first instance into groups of three months , and the percentage frequency of the prominences was determined by dividing the number observed by the number of days on which observations were made in this period .
In this way a set of eighteen curves , nine for each hemisphere , was made , showing the variation from year to year of the percentage frequency of prominence activity in each ten-degree zone .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 70 , p. 502 .
+ * Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 135 , No. 8 , 25th August , 1902 .
J ' Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani , ' vol. 1 , 1872 ; vol. 29 , 1900 .
1903 .
] Solar Prominences and Terrestrial Magnetism .
In the curves accompanying the present communication ( Plate 4 ) the above-mentioned set , except those for 80'\#151 ; 90 ' north and south , have been grouped in pairs , thus representing the percentage frequency of prominences in each hemisphere for zones of 20 ' of latitude , 0'\#151 ; 20 ' , 20'\#151 ; 40 ' , \amp ; c. , since it was found that this reduction could be made without losing any of the characteristic variations .
An examination of these curves shows that they differ very considerably one from the other as we proceed from the equatorial to the polar zones .
Generally speaking the curves representing the variations for each of the zones , 0'\#151 ; 20 ' north and south , conform with the sun-spot curve ; that is , the maxima and minima occur at about the epochs of sun-spot maxima and minima .
Those for the two zones , 20'\#151 ; 40 ' , in both hemispheres conform also in the main to the general sun-spot curve , but in addition they display subsidiary maxima or changes of curvature superimposed on the main curve .
The curves for the two zones , 40'\#151 ; 60 ' north and south , have , on the other hand , hardly any likeness to the sun-spot curve , but are made up of a series of prominent maxima representing special outbursts of prominence activity .
Passing to the curves corresponding to the next zones , 60'\#151 ; 80 ' north and south , these indicate two prominent outbursts lasting for a short period , showing that this region of the sun is , as a rule , practically free from prominence activity ; in the remaining zones , 80'\#151 ; 90 ' north and south , the variation is small , and is a faint echo of the condition of affairs in the neighbouring zone 60'\#151 ; 80 ' .
The Magnetic Curves .
The data regarding the magnetic phenomena employed in this comparison are those brought together by Mr. " William Ellis , in two published papers on magnetic phenomena.* We may take the opportunity here of thanking Mr. Ellis for kindly communicating to us a continuation of the data published in these two papers , which information he has brought down to the year 1899 .
Two classes of magnetic phenomena were there dealt with , namely , the variations from year to year of the diurnal range of the declination and horizontal force , and magnetic disturbances .
As regards the former , Mr. Ellis has shownf that the curves indicating these variations are very similar to that of the general sun-spot curve ; in fact , the curves were found to be almost identical in all their smaller irregularities .
* 'Phil , Trans. , ' Part II , 1880 , " On the Relation between the Diurnal Range of Magnetic Declination and Horizontal Force , as observed at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , during the years 1841 to 1877 , and the Period of Solar Spot Frequency " ; 'Monthly Notices , R.A.S. , 'December , 1899 , vol. 60 , No. 2 , " On the Relation between Magnetic Disturbance and the Period of Solar Spot Frequency .
" t ' Phil. Trans. , ' Part II , 1880 .
246 Sir Norman Lockyer and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Jan. 14 .
The second class of phenomena , namely , the magnetic disturbances , which are more irregular in occurrence , has been classified by Mr. Ellis into five groups , and tabulated by him under five separate subheads .
For the present paper , reference will only be made to one of these classes , namely , that described as " great , " this group representing the largest disturbances .
The curve representing the variation in number of these disturbances indicates short intermittent crests , outbursts , in fact , with rapid rises to maxima and falls to minima , and comparatively long intervals of quiescence .
Comparison of the Curves representing Frequency and Variation of Diurnal Magnetic Range .
Mr. Ellis , as already has been pointed out , has indicated the close resemblance between the sun-spot curve and that representing the variation of the magnetic elements ; and it has been shown in the earlier part of this paper , that the curves representing the percentage frequency of prominences near the solar equator , conform in the main to the general sun-spot curve .
There is therefore an apparent connection between phenomena occurring in the equatorial regions of the sun ( as represented by zones of prominences near the equator , and sun-spots which are practically restricted to these zones ) , and the ordinary diurnal magnetic variation .
The accompanying set of curves ( Plate 5 ) illustrates the great similarity between those showing the frequency of prominences in a zone about the equator ( 0'\#151 ; 20 ' north and south ) and the variations of the mean daily range of magnetic declination ; for the sake of comparison , three other curves are added , showing the variation of the mean daily area of sun-spots for the whole , and the two hemispheres of the sun separately.* .
* In referring to the curve representing the variation of the mean daily areas of sun-spots , it may be noted that this is obtained by combining the mean daily areas of both hemispheres of the sun .
A closer analysis shows , however , that this variation is not the same for both hemispheres .
From the year 1862 , when such a division of the sun 's disc can be easily investigated , the northern hemisphere , about the time of the two last maxima , displayed double maxima occurring in the years 1881 and 1884 , and in the years 1892 and 1895 .
About the time of the maximum of 1870 this duplicity is not so marked , although when compared with the curve for the southern hemisphere for this period , there is a slight indication of a subsidiary crest in 1872 .
In the case of the curve representing the mean spotted area for the southern hemisphere alone , at all the three epochs of maximum , the curves are single-crested and indicate sharply-defined maxima in the years 1870 , 1883 , and 1893 .
From the above it will be seen , therefore , that the actual epochs of sun-spot maxima , as determined from the northern and southern hemispheres respectively , Solar Prominences and Terrestrial Magnetism .
Comparison of the Prominences with the Magnetic Disturbance Curves .
If a comparison of the curve representing the number of days of the " great " magnetic disturbance is made with those representing prominence frequency ( Plate 4 ) , it will be seen that the former is as unlike the curves representing the prominence frequency about the solar equator as it is like those near the poles ; in fact , the polar prominence outbursts , and great magnetic disturbances occur almost simultaneously .
The peculiar form and general similarity of the curves can be best seen from the accompanying illustration ( fig. 1 ) .
In the figure comparison is made between the epochs of the crossing of the known and unknown lines , the percentage frequency of prominences about the solar poles and Ellis ' " great " magnetic disturbances .
Two curves representative of prominence frequency are given , one to indicate the abrupt nature of the curves representing the frequency in a zone near the pole 10 degrees in width ( in this case 60'\#151 ; 70 ' north ) , and the second to illustrate polar action as a whole ; this latter was obtained by making a summation of prominence frequency for the two zones 60'\#151 ; 90 ' north and south .
The simultaneous occurrence of the maxima suggests that , when the prominence action takes place at the polar regions of the sun , one effect on the earth is that we experience our greatest magnetic disturbances .
Further , according to Mr. Ellis , * " unusual magnetic disturbance is frequent about epochs of sun-spot maximum , and nearly or quite absent about epochs of sun-spot minimum .
" We find that not only do these " great " disturbances occur at the same time as the polar prominences , but the spectroscopic observations of sun-spots show that they take place not only " about " the times of spot maximum , as stated by Mr. Ellis , but when the sun-spot curve is approaching a maximum and at the dates of the widened line crossings , t when the curve representing the " unknown " lines is on the rise , and crosses the " known " line which is descending .
At the other epoch of " crossing , " i.e. , when the curve showing the " known " lines is on the rise and the " unknown " is falling , there is practically no magnetic disturbance recorded .
Attention is again drawn to these crossings , as it is desired to indicate that it is only at those particular times when the sun is increasing his temperature that these disturbances occur .
are not the same , and in dealing with the curve representing this variation for the whole hemisphere , this fact should be borne in mind .
It may further be noted that the epochs of minima may be practically considered the same for both hemispheres .
* ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' vol. 60 , p. 148 .
+ ' Rov .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 412 .
70- CROSSINGS 60 ' of 50 ' WIDENED \#163 ; LINES .
20-10-0PROMINENCES .
60'- 90 ' N.8| S. LAT .
200 ' .
TAGCHIND O ; PROMINENCES .
60'- 70 ' N. LAT ITACCHINI .
) 200- 0J DAYS OF MAGNETIC DISTURBANCES 5-"GREAT " ( ELLIS ) 0 .
1860-0 1870-0 1880-0 1860-0 1900-0 1870-0 1880-0 \#174 ; '1\#174 ; - / im , Comparison showing days of " great " magnetic disturbance , polar prominences , and crossings of widened lines .
( The continuous and broken vertical lines indicate the epochs of sun-spot maxima and minima respectively .
} Solar Prominences and Terrestrial Magnetism .
249- The facts in this paper explain why it is that magnetic storms sometimes take place when there are no spots , or no very large spots , on the surface of the sun .
Since the occurrence of magnetic storms is shown to be very closely connected with the solar prominences , there may be prominences and magnetic storms when there are no spots .
Prominences may also sometimes be associated with large spots , and as the latter can be seen while the former can not , the resulting magnetic storm is generally attributed to the spots .
2'50 Solar Prominences and Terrestrial Magnetism .
[ Jan. 14 , Further , the magnitude of magnetic storms appears to vary according to the particular position as to latitude of the prominence on the sun 's disc .
The nearer the poles ( either north or south ) the prominence occurs , the greater the magnetic storm , and these are the regions where no spots exist .
In this paper we have shown that the variations of the general magnetic phenomena , as given by Ellis , synchronise with the occurrence .of prominences about the solar equator , while his " great " magnetic disturbances occur , in point of time , with the appearance of prominences in the polar regions of the sun .
Professor Bigelow has recently* investigated the variations in the horizontal magnetic force , and finds that the curve representing these changes exhibits subsidiary maxima which synchronise with those recorded in the curve representing the mean variation of prominences for all latitudes .
Thus , to use his own words , " the remarkable synchronism between the curves cannot escape recognition , except after the year 1894 , when an extra minor crest is developed in the horizontal force .
" The accompanying diagram ( fig. 2 ) gives Professor Bigelow 's curve , which represents , as he says , " the series of minor variations which were found in the horizontal magnetic force .
... .
after the 11-year cycle curve has been eliminated , " together with the percentage frequency of prominences in all latitudes obtained by us from Tacchini 's observations .
* 'Monthly Weather Review , ' vol. 30 , No. 7 , July , 1902 , p. 352 .
Lockyer and ui_rv 40-60 ' 6 .
LAT .
500- 250- 0- 60-80 ' S. LAT .
500- 250- o-J J 80-90 ' S. LAT .
500-i 250- 0- 1860-0 1870-0 1880-0 1890-0 1900-0 Curves showing tlic percentage frequency of solar prominences for each 20 ' zone N. and S. ( The continuous and broken vertical lines indicate the epochs of sun-spot maxima and minima respectively .
) su ME .
WH SU M DEC

