152 Physico-Chemical Determinations at High Pressures by Optical Methods .
By Walter Wahl , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 23 , 1912 .
) ( Abstract .
) Apparatus for Optical Measurements at High Pressures .
The apparatus consists of three chief units:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Plant for the production and measurement of pressures up to 4000 kgrm./ cm ? .
( 2 ) A " pressure-bomb " to hold the substances under investigation .
( 3 ) An optical bench for observations in polarised light , and for measurements of the change of refractive index , dispersion , rotatory power , absorption , double-refraction and optical-axial-angle , by pressure .
The " pressure-bomb " is fitted with two " windows " of boro-silicate glass ( Jena ) ; these have the shape of truncated cones , are 20 mm. thick , rest with the base upon a flat ring-shaped washer of vulcanised fibre , and are surrounded by a conical mantle of ebonite , the washers and ebonite mantles thus preventing an immediate contact of the glass and steel surfaces .
The chief object of using these washers and conical packings may be described as being that of keeping the glass constantly surrounded by a half-plastic mass , which flows slightly , and thus transmits the pressure to the glass body as evenly as possible .
The pressure-bomb has been tested under high pressures , both at liquid air temperatures and at temperatures up to 150 ' .
At ordinary temperatures the glass windows have , under favourable circumstances , withstood pressures of over 4000 kgrm./ cm.2 without being injured in any way. .
Optical Determinations of Diagrams of State .
Melting-points and transition-points between different crystalline modifications may be determined either at constant pressure by altering the temperature , or at constant temperature by altering the pressure .
Crystallisation and melting at constant temperature , " isothermal crystallisation " and " isothermal melting , " are of special interest , as it is possible not only to study the crystallisation , melting , and supercooling phenomena more in detail than under ordinary conditions when the transition is effected by temperature change , but it is also possible to study the phenomena connected with superheating of the crystalline phase .
Physico-Chemical Determinations by Optical Methods .
153 The Diagram of State of Carbon Tetrabromicle , CBr4 .
The melting-point of CBr4 is raised 1 ' by a pressure of only 16 kgrm./ cm.2 The transition-point from monoclinic to regular crystal-form is raised 1 ' by 32 kgrm./ cm.2 .
The melting-point curve and the transformation-point curve do not , therefore , intersect at high pressures to form a triple-point .
In consequence , the anisotropic monoclinic form of carbon tetrabromide cannot be caused to melt at any temperature or pressure whatever .
The Diagram of State of , u-fi-Dibrompropionic Acid , CH2Br .
CHBr .
COOH .
Beside the stable modification of the acid , melting at 64 ' , an unstable modification exists , melting at 51 ' .
Both forms crystallise in the monoclinic system .
As the unstable modification is not spontaneously transformed into the stable one so readily as in most other cases of " monotropy , " and only very small quantities are employed for an optical investigation , it has for the first time been possible in this case to determine the melting-point-curve of an unstable modification also .
The velocity of crystallisation , and also of melting , of both modifications is small , and it has therefore been possible to determine the limits within which not only supercooling , but also superheating , can be effected at different pressures .
During isothermal melting of the unstable modification , the pressure may be reduced as much as about 150 kgrm./ cm.2 below the true melting-point pressure before melting takes place with almost instantaneous velocity .
This pressure , 150 kgrm./ cm.2 below the melting-point pressure , corresponds to a superheating of nearly 3 ' .
The melting-point of the stable modification is raised 1 ' by a pressure of 51-28 kgrm./ cm.2 , and that of the unstable modification 1 ' by a pressure of 53-48 kgrm./ cm.2 .
The melting-point curves run further apart as the pressure increases , and the modification unstable at ordinary pressures thus remains unstable at all pressures .
The two melting-point curves , of which the upper one has been traced over a pressure range of 1060 kgrm./ cm.2 , and the lower one over a pressure range of 1330 kgrm./ cm.2 , are perfectly straight lines .
If we continue these melting-point lines towards negative pressure , we find that they intersect at a point corresponding to a temperature of between \#151 ; 270 ' and \#151 ; 280 ' , that is , at the absolute zero .
At any pressure , the difference between the absolute melting-points of the two modifications is therefore similar to the difference of the absolute melting-points at ordinary pressure .
This work has been executed at the Davy-Faraday Laboratory of the Royal Institution during the past year .

