113 Magnetic Declination at Keiv Observatory , 1890\#151 ; 1900 .
By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent .
Observatory Department , National Physical Laboratory .
( Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read December 12 , 1907 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the phenomena exhibited by the magnetic declination at Kew from 1890 to 1900 .
The magnetograph curves have been measured on every day of this period , whether disturbed or undisturbed , and the data from days of the different species are contrasted .
Diurnal inequalities are got out for ordinary days , excluding those of large disturbance , and separately for the highly disturbed days , and the differences between these , and the points wherein they differ from the corresponding inequalities from quiet days , are investigated .
The disturbed days show a well-marked regular diurnal variation , which differs in many notable respects from that observed on ordinary days .
When the inequalities are analysed in Fourier series , it is found that the difference mainly centres in the 24-hour term , whose amplitude and phase seem both largely influenced by disturbance .
The variation in the phenomena presented by disturbances throughout the year are investigated from several points of view .
The absolute range of the declination ( absolute maximum less absolute minimum ) was determined for every day of the 11 years , and special attention is given to the variation of this quantity throughout the year , and from year to year .
With a view to throwing light on the theories of Arrhenius , Maunder and others , on the origin of magnetic storms , a minute comparison is made of the relationship between the absolute ranges and ( Greenwich ) sunspot areas throughout the 11 years .
Whilst the results do not preclude the possibility that Arrhenius ' theory may be true of a certain number of magnetic storms , they seem to indicate that it cannot be a complete explanation of the facts .
The paper aims at reaching results of a novel or critical character , and makes no attempt to chronicle the very bulky material , embracing over 100,000 actual curye readings , on which it is based .
The cost of the reductions has been partly defrayed by a grant obtained from the Government Grant Committee in 1904 .

