41t\gt ; A New Form of Spectroscope .
[ Dec. 17 , spores were floated on the surface of the fluid , but I had not succeeded in finding evidence of growth when the hairs were submerged .
This result must have been due to some accidental cause which escaped undetected , as I have found that trichophyton grows when the hairs are entirely submerged in the gelatinised beef juice , and the spores are excluded from contact with the air .
In my previous paper I described a number of experiments which appeared to show conclusively that trichophyton is not related to the ordinary fungi ( Penicillium , Mucor , \amp ; c. ) with which it had been up to that time confounded .
The experiments with gelatinised meat juice confirm that view .
In many instances in which I cultivated trichophyton on this medium I never once observed organs of fructification or appearances that suggested that it could be identified with common fungi .
As regards Penicillium glaucum with which , from the abundance of its spores in the atmosphere of laboratories , cultivations are most likely to be , and are most often fouled , the difference can be shown by a very simple experiment .
A layer of the gelatinised meat juice is poured over a pure slide and allowed to cool under proper precautions .
Ringworm hairs and penicillium spores are " sown " in parallel lines on the surface of the medium , and the slide is put in a moist chamber at ordinary temperatures .
If the slide is examined in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the penicillium will be found to be growing with great rapidity , , whilst the mycelium of trichophyton has made in comparison very little growth .
Repeated crops of penicillium may be grown up to the stage in which the characteristic organs of fructification are fully developed , whilst during the same time the trichophyton mycelium grows steadily and slowly , with no distinct signs of spore formation and no trace of organs of fructification .
I may add that , in a recent letter to me , Dr. Koch states his conviction that trichophyton is a distinct and independent kind of fungus .
IY .
" A New Form of Spectroscope .
" By J. Norman Lockyert F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1885 .
Some two or three years ago , when the sun-spot work carried on at Kensington revealed the different behaviour in different spots of lines visible in the spectra of the same element , it seemed desirable to extend similar observations to metallic prominences , and , if possible , in such a way that comparisons over a considerable reach of spectrum should be possible .
It then struck me that a grating cut in half , with one part movable , would afford a ready means of doing this .
1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by .
417 Circumstances prevented the realisation of this scheme till quite recently , when I put into Mr. Hilger 's hands a grating presented to me by Mr. Rutherfurd .
The result is excellent .
It is possible to observe C and F , for instance , together quite conveniently , with either a normal or a tangential slit .
The only precautions necessary are to see that half of the light passing through the object-glass falls on the half grating , and that the rays which come to a focus on the slit plate are those the wave-lengths of which are half way between the wave-lengths of the two lines compared .
V. " On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops falling into Liquids , and some allied Phenomena .
" By J. J. THOMSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge , and H. F. Newall , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received November 28 , 1885 .
When a drop of ink falls into water from not too great a height , it descends through the water as a ring , in which there is evidently considerable rotation about the circular axis passing through the centres of its cross sections ; as the ring travels down through the water inequalities make their appearance : more ink seems to collect in some parts of it than in others , and as these parts of the ring descend more rapidly than the rest , it assumes some such appearance as that shown in fig. 1 .
These aggregations as they descend develope Fig. 1 .
fresh rings in the same way as the original ring was developed front the drop .
The ring is thus split up into several rings , each of which is connected with its neighbours by threads of ink affording a very pretty illustration of the continuity of motion in a liquid ( see fig. 2 ) .
As the secondary rings descend they develope other rings just as they were developed from the original one , and the process of repio-duction seems to go on indefinitely .
It is not every liquid , however , which , when dropped into watti , gives rise to rings , for if we drop into water any liquid which does not mix with it , such as chloroform , the drop in consequence of the

