Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
III .
" Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
Preliminary Statement on the Equisetaceae and Psilo-tacese .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received January 30 , 1893 .
Still maintaining the same general views as were put forward in my preliminary statement on the Lycopodinae and Ophioglossaceae ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 ) , I have now investigated other types from among the Vascular Cryptogams as regards the development of their spore-producing members .
As some considerable time must still elapse before these and other results can be laid in full before the Society , a further preliminary statement will now be made of the more important facts recently obtained .
It is assumed that readers will bear in mind the views put forward in the paper above quoted , as regards sterilisation of potential spore-producing tissue , the possible partitioning of an originally continuous sporogenous mass by bands of sterile tissue , and as regards the elaboration of external form which may follow on such partitioning .
This will be specially necessary for the appreciation of the facts relating to the Psilotacese .
Taking first the Equisetacese , the development of the sporangia has been closely followed by Goebel ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880-81 ) ; I find it , however , difficult to accept his conclusions as to the hypodermal origin of the archesporium .
On following the early phases of development in , the sporangium is found to be eusporangiate , but the essential parts of the sporangium may be traced in origin to a single superficial cell , the cells adjoining this laterally contributing only to form the lateral portions of the wall .
The first division of this cell is periclinal : the inner resulting cell forms only a part of the sporogenous tissue ; the outer cell undergoes further segmentation , first by anticlinal , then by periclinal , walls , and the inner cells thus produced are added to the sporogenous tissue , and take part in spore-formation .
The archesporium of Eq. arvense is thus shown to be not of hypodermal origin in the strict sense ; the same appears to be the case in Eq. limosum .
Similar additions to the sporogenous tissue by early periclinal division of superficial cells is commonly to be seen in and occasional cases , which are difficult to explain in any other way , have been observed in some species of Lycopodium .
It would thus appear that Goebel 's generalisation , that in all the Vascular Cryptogams which he investigated a hypodermal archesporium exists ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 569 ) , cannot be retained in the strict sense .
The tapetum is derived from the series of cells immediately surProf .
F. 0 .
Bower .
Studies the [ Feb. 16 , rounding the sporogenous mass ; it is , however , to be carefully distinguished from certain cells of the sporogenous mass , which also undergo an early disorganisation ; for about one-third of the cells of the sporogenous mass do not form spores , but serve physiologically as a diffused tapetum , yielding up their substance to nourish the other young developing spores .
This is another form in which sterilisation of sporogenous tissue may appear .
A similar arrest of some of the sporogenous cells is found also in the Psilotacese .
I have already suggested a theory ( loc. cit. , p. 273 ) of the mode of origin of the whole strobilus of Equ from a sporogonial head , and have no reason to alter my opinion on this point .
The synangia of the Psilotaceae have given rise to voluminous discussions ; one view , which is now very widely adopted , as to the morphology of the parts which bear the synangia of these plants is , that the synangium is terminal on an abbreviated axis , which bears in addition two foliage leaves .
It will be seen that the investigation of the internal details of development will support a simpler and more probable explanation of the nature of these peculiar parts , that which was indeed generally held by the older botanists , viz. , that the whole of each lateral appendage ( sporangiophore ) which bears the synangium is a single leaf .
This conclusion had already been arrived at by Graf Solms , after examination of the external form of the developing organs in Psilotum , for he found the synangium to arise below the apex of the whole lateral appendage .
No sufficient examination has , however , yet been made of the internal details of the development of these parts in the Psilotacese , excepting a few observations by Goebel on Psilotum ( 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1881 , p. 688 ) , which were , however , incomplete , through insufficiency of material .
Tmesipteris being the genus with the simpler structure , it may be described first .
In their earliest stages of development , as lateral outgrowths from the axis , the sporangiophores are not readily distinguishable from the foliage leaves in form or structure , while they occupy a similar position upon the axis .
In either case , a prismatic or wedge-shaped cell occupies the apex , as seen in radial section , but the tissues of the whole leaf are not readily referable to the segmentation of a single initial .
The first appearance of a synangium is as an upgrowth of superficial cells of the adaxial face of the sporangio-phore , immediately below its apex ; meanwhile the cells of the abaxial side also grow strongly , while the apex itself does not grow so rapidly ; so that the organic apex is soon sunk in a groove between these stronger growths .
The superficial cells which are to form the synangium undergo periclinal and anticlinal divisions , to form about four layers of cells ; all the cells of this tissue are at first very similar to one another , but , later , two sporogenous masses become differentiated ; they are not , however , clearly defined while young 1893 .
] Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
21 from the sterile tissue which forms the partition of the synamgiurn , or from the wall , while the cells which form the partition are similar in their origin to the sporogenous cells .
From the arrangement of the cells of these sporogenous masses it seems not improbable that each mass may be referable in origin to a single cell , but this has not been proved to be constantly the case .
All the cells of the sporogenous tissue do not arrive at maturity , but here , as in a considerable number , serving as a diffused tapetum , become disorganised without forming spores .
There is no clearly-defined tapetum in Tmesipteris .
The leaf lobes begin to be formed almost simultaneously with the synangium , and appear as lateral growths immediately below the apex of the sporangiophore ; their further development presents no characters of special note .
The synangium of Psilotum originates in essentially a similar manner , being formed from the upper surface of the sporangiophore , immediately below its apex .
The details are different in accordance with the trilocular character of the synangium : but , as regards the structure of the wall and septa , the absence of any strict external limit of the sporogenous masses , and of any definite tapetum , as well as in the fact that a considerable proportion of cells of the sporogenous masses become disorganised without forming spores , Psilotum corresponds to Tmesipteris .
Bach sporogenous mass appears to be referable in origin to a single archesporial cell .
On the ground of the observations of internal development , of which the above are the essential features , I agree with the conclusion of Solms that the whole sporangiophore is of foliar nature , and that the synangium is a growth from its upper surface .
The presence of the two lateral leaf-lobes need be no obstacle to this conclusion , while they serve an obvious purpose in protecting the synangium when young , more completely than a leaf of the form of the sterile leaves of these plants could possibly do .
For purposes of comparison with allied forms , Tmesipteris should be taken first : and the correspondence is most close with dendron , a fact which has a special interest since this genus and the Psilotaceae are both very ancient types .
In Lepidodendron the sporangium is very large ; it is narrow and elongated in a radial direction , extending a considerable distance along the upper surface of the leaf .
I have already communicated to the Society the fact that trabeculae extend in Lepidodendron from the base of the sporangium far up into the mass of spores ( cit. , p. 272 ) , and have compared these with the trabeculae in the sporangium of Isoetes .
Neither of these sporangia are , however , completely partitioned .
I now suggest that comparatively slight modification of the condition in Lepidodendron would produce the state of things seen in Tmesipteris : if the sterile trabeculae of Lepidodendron were consolidated into a 22 Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
[ Feb. 16 , transverse septum , and the apical growth of the sporophyll arrested and taken up by two lateral lobes , the result would be such as is seen in Tmesipteris .
This is not a mere imaginative suggestion : it proceeds from the observed fact that the septum in Tmesipteris is undis-tinguishable at first from the sporogenous masses : here , as in other cases , it seems to me probable that a partial sterilisation of a potential archesporium has resulted in a partitioned sporangium .
Psilotum itself illustrates , in its abnormal forms , the possible progression from two to four or five loculi .
It may further be noted , in connexion with the above comparison between Lepidoderdron and Tmesipteris , that the vascular tissues of some of the former appear to correspond more closely to those of Tmesipteris than to any other living plant .
Looking at the whole plants of the Psilotacese from the point of View above indicated , they are to be regarded as lax strobili , bearing sporangiophores ( sporophylls ) of rather complex structure .
Branching , which is rare in Tmesipteris , is common in Psilotum , and is to be compared with the branching of the strobilus in many species of Lycopodium .
In both there are irregularly alternating sterile and fertile zones , not unlike those of some species of Lycopodium ( cit. , p. 270 ) ; at the limits of these , arrested sporangia are frequently found .
It is not difficult to imagine how such plants as the Psilotacese may have originated from some strobiloid type , not unlike that of the genus Lycopodium .
Those who accept the above suggestion will be prepared further to admit the comparison of the synangium of the Psiloiaceae with the " fertile frond " of the Ophioglossacese , which has been made by yarious other writers\#151 ; Mettenius , Prantl , Strasburger , Celakovsky .
Ihis I believe to be a true homology ; I should , however , add to this the hypothesis that , in either case , we see the result of elaboration in size and form , together with partitioning , of a sporangium of an originally simple Lycopodinous type .
In the Psilotacese the result may he 2\#151 ; 5 loculi ; in the Ophioglossaceee the number may be in the simplest cases as low as six , or may rise to many hundreds in the larger species of Ophioglossum or Botrychium .
It may further be remarked that every fresh case such as the above , where the development supports the hypothesis of partial sterilisation of a potential archesporium , and resulting partition , as exemplified among these lowest vascular plants , is of importance .
A large body of evidence , to which I am now adding by the investigation of the Marattiacese , leads me to conclude that such partitioning of originally simpler sporangia has played a very important part in the evolution of vascular plants .

