XIV .
" On the Communication of Vibration from a Vibrating Body to a surrounding Gas .
" By G. G. STOKES , M.A. , Sec. R.S. , Fellow of Pembroke College , and Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 18 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) In the first volume of the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society will be found a paper by the late Professor John Leslie , describing some curious experiments which show the singular incapacity of hydrogen either pure or mixed with air , for receiving and conveying vibrations from a bell rung in the gas .
The facts elicited by these experiments seem not hitherto to have received a satisfactory explanation .
It occurred to the author of the present paper that they admitted of a ready explanation as a consequence of the high velocity of propagation of sound in hydrogen gas operating in a peculiar way .
When a body is slowly moved to and fro in any gas , the gas behaves almost exactly like an incompressible fluid , and there is merely a local reciprocating motion of the gas from the anterior to the posterior region , and back again in the opposite phase of the body 's motion , in which the region that had been anterior becomes posterior .
If the rate of alternation of the body 's motion be taken greater and greater , or , in other words , the periodic time less and less , the condensation and rarefaction of the gas , which in the first instance was utterly insensible , presently becomes sensible , and soundwaves ( or waves of the same nature in case the periodic time be beyond the limits of audibility ) are produced , and exist along with the local reciprocating flow .
As the periodic time is diminished , more and more of the encroachment of the vibrating body on the gas goes to produce a true sound-wave , less and less a mere local reciprocating flow .
For a given periodic time , and given size , form , and mode of vibration of the vibrating body , the gas behaves so much the more nearly like an incompressible fluid as the velocity of propagation of sound in it is greater ; and on this account the intensity of the sonorous vibrations excited in air as compared with hydrogen may be vastly greater than corresponds merely with the difference of density of the two gases .
It is only for a few simple geometrical forms of the vibrating body that the solution of the problem of determining the motion produced in the gas can actually be effected .
The author has given the solution in the two cases of a vibrating sphere and of an infinite cylinder , the motion in the latter case being supposed to take place in two dimensions .
The former is taken as the representative of a bell ; the latter is applied to the case of a vibrating string or wire .
In the case of the sphere , the numerical results amply establish the adequacy of the cause here considered to account for the results obtained by Leslie .
In the case of the cylinder they give an exalted idea of the necessity of sounding-boards in stringed instruments ; and the theory is further applied to the explanation of one or two interesting phenomena .
471

