[ 4(57 ] TX .
A Conjugating " Yeast .
" By B. T. P. Barker , B.A. , Gonvilleand Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received May 4 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1901 .
[ Plate 46 .
] The organism described in this paper was obtained from commercial ginger in a flask of saccharose-Mayer solution.# On keeping the flask at a temperature of 25 ' C. , fermentation occurred , and a brownish-white deposit was formed .
An examination of this deposit showed that it consisted chiefly of yeast-cells .
Some of these cells were separated , and fractional series of six plate-cultures each were made .
The plates were kept at the ordinary room temperature , and the colonies of yeast-cells were visible to the naked eye in three days .
The colonies when a fortnight old appeared to the naked eye as small rounded white masses , about the size of a pin 's head , with regular edges .
Under the low power of the microscope the edges appeared fairly regular in those colonies which had developed on the surface of the gelatine , but the submerged colonies had a woolly appearance , due to numerous branches made up chiefly of yeast-cells placed end on end , and comparatively few side branches of such cell-systems , the branches radiating out from a central mass of yeast-cells .
By means of hanging-drop cultures in beer-wort gelatine a single cell was selected under the microscope , and its development watched ( see Plate 46 , fig. 1 ) , until the colony to which it gave rise was large enough to be visible to the naked eye .
An infection was then taken from this colony , and further fractional series in beer-wort gelatine made ; a streak-culture on beer-wort gelatine being made at the same time from the same infection .
From the growths which developed on these streak- and plate-cultures , an abundant supply of the organism in a pure state was obtained .
The streak-culture was the method adopted for keeping a pure stock of the fungus .
The Growth on Plate-cultures .
Cultures made on plates of beer-wort gelatine show no special characteristic which distinguishes this form from many other yeasts .
When observed with the naked * Saccharine 15 grammes , Mayer 's solution 100 cub. centims. 3 o 2 ( 203 ) 25.11.1901 MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
eye , the colonies first become visible as small dots in 3-4 days , when the cultures are kept at the ordinary room temperature ( 15-20 ' C. ) .
A week later they have reached the size of a pin 's head , and appear as small , round , brownish-white milky looking masses , if growing on the surface of the gelatine .
Such colonies viewed under the low power of the microscope have usually regular edges and are composed of a solid mass of yeast-cells .
Submerged colonies present a different appearance , being more or less like woolly balls when viewed with a simple lens , and of a brownish colour , due no doubt to the colour of the gelatine in which they are imbedded .
Their woolly appearance is seen under a low power to be produced by numerous branches radiating from a central mass of yeast-cells .
These branches are made up of yeast-cells which have develojied principally in an end-on-end fashion , lateral buddings being scanty .
The growth of the colonies is soon arrested , a larger size than that of a pin 's head being rarely attained .
In young colonies the cells are identical in appearance with those of an actively budding yeast .
They are usually oval in shape , one or both ends often being more or less pointed ; their contents appear homogeneous , the clear protoplasm filling the whole of the cell , except in cases where one or more small vacuoles similar in nature to those of an actively budding yeast are present ; and the cell wall is not sharply marked off from the rest of the cell .
Such cells produce buds actively in a typical yeast-like manner .
( Plate 46 , fig. 1 .
) As the colony grows older , the active budding ceases and the cells alter in appearance .
The protoplasm no longer fills the whole of the cell , and it becomes less clear .
Large vacuoles appear , and many granules apparently chiefly of a fatty nature are to be seen .
The shape of the cell also in many cases undergoes a change , becoming very irregular owing to processes developing at one or more joints .
( See fig. 2 .
) Such irregular cells , when placed in fresh beer-wort or beer-wort gelatine , produce buds in a typical yeast-like manner , and these buds grow out into the ordinary form of cell found in young colonies .
( See fig. 3 .
) Besides these irregularly shaped cells there are also to be found in old colonies many spore-bearing cells .
The morphology and nature of these will be described later .
The history of the manner of growth and the nature of the vegetation of the colonies is clearly shown by observing their production from single cells in cultures of hanging-drops of beer-wort gelatine at the ordinary room temperature .
Streak-cultures .
On the sloped surface of tubes of beer-wort gelatine at the ordinary room temperature a milky brownish-white streak is produced with well-marked and regular crenate edges .
The vegetation of this streak resembles that of the colonies produced on plates of beer-wort gelatine .
On beer-wort agar ( 2 per cent , agar ) the characters of the streak and of its vege- MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" tation are similar .
Streak-cultures on bread and potato are milky white when moist , and chalky looking when dry ; on pieces of moist ginger their colour is darker , owing to the brown colour of the ginger .
The cells are of the same form as in the other cultures on solid media .
A yeast ring is formed in old cultures on many nutrient liquid media , but no films are produced .
In tubes of beer-wort the ring makes its appearance in 10-14 days at 25 ' C. It is milky white in colour , and looks like a layer of cream , deposited around the edges of the liquid .
It is also formed at the ordinary room temperature , but more slowly .
Its vegetation consists of yeast-like cells\#151 ; oval , round , and a few elongated , sausage-shaped , irregular cells , like those in old cultures on beer-wort gelatine , and of cells containing spores .
Such rings are also formed on dextrose-Mayer , lrevulose-Mayer , maltose-Mayer , and saccharose-Mayer solutions .
* Reproduction .
The methods of reproduction of this organism which have been observed are\#151 ; ( a ) , vegetative propagation by budding ; ( / \gt ; ) , reproduction by the formation of spores .
( a.)Budding.\#151 ; Budding takes place in a typical yeast-like manner , whenever cells of this organism are placed in suitable nutrient media .
Beer-wort seems to be the best medium , and has been used both in its ordinary liquid state and made up into a solid medium with gelatine or agar , 10 per cent , of gelatine being used in the former case and 2 per cent , of agar in the latter .
The rapidity of budding of course depends largely on external conditions , but an idea of the rate of growth of a vigorous cell was obtained by culture for 24 hours at 27 ' C. in beer-wort , and then making a hanging-drop culture of beer-wort gelatine of the vigorous cells so obtained , and observing the number of cells produced from a single cell in a given time at 15-19 C. The number of cells produced from a single vigorous cell kept at 15\#151 ; 19 ' C. was fourteen in 31 hours , but 21 hours were occupied in the formation of the first four cells .
The temperature limits for budding show that this yeast is a distinctly high temperature form .
Slow growth has been obtained with streak-cultures on beer-wort agar at 37-38 ' C. : above which temperature , however , growth seems to be practically stopped .
The lower limit of growth appears to be between 10 ' C. and 13'C .
Growth is most vigorous at 25-30 ' C. ( b.)Spore-formation.\#151 ; Cells containing spores are to be found in all old cultures of this organism on the various media in which beer-wort has been used as a constituent .
They are also found in the growths on moist bread , potato , ginger , and other nutrient media .
The methods adopted for obtaining a plentiful supply of spores were the same as those generally used for obtaining spores of the various species of Saccharo- * I.e. , Mayer 's solution made up with the corresponding sugar .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
myces , viz. , a vigorous culture was obtained by growing the cells in beer-wort at 25 ' C. for 24 hours , then infecting a second supply of beer-wort and keeping this at the same temperature for the same length of time .
A few drops of this culture were then poured on to a sterile block of gypsum or a piece of porous porcelain , which was kept in a moist chamber at 25 ' C. In the course of two days an abundant supply of cells containing spores was to he found on the porous surface .
The spore-containing cells are entirely different from those of the ordinary species of Saccharomyces .
They consist of two cells joined together by a neck , the cavities of the two cells being continuous through the neck .
At first sight it appears as though an ordinary yeast-like cell had produced a bud , which , instead of being budded off in the usual way , had remained attached to the mother-cells by a wide neck , communication between the two cells not having been cut off at that point .
The neck in most cases would then appear to have undergone a development in length and sometimes also in breadth .
The number of spores in such a structure or compound cell is variable , and their arrangement also .
Four seems to he the typical number of the spores , two in each compartment of the compound cell .
They may , however , be arranged three in one compartment and one in the other , especially if one compartment be larger than the other ; or , again , four in one compartment and none in the other , in which case the compartment without spores is usually very small indeed , and may appear as a mere process of the other .
In a great number of cases , however , three or two , and , more rarely , five spores are found in these compound cells .
In cases where three spores are present , two are in one compartment and one in the other , or occasionally three in the one and none in the other .
If two spores only are present , one in each compartment seems to be the usual arrangement ; if five , three may be in one compartment and two in the other , or four in the one and one in the other ( fig. 4 ) .
The spores themselves are round or , more rarely , oval in shape ; their diameter is 4-5 fx .
They are strongly refractive in appearance and usually fill up the greater portion of the cavity of the compound cell , the cell-walls of which are kept in such cases on the stretch and retain their original ovoid form .
In those cases , however , in which the spores do not occupy the major portion of the cell 's interior , the walls shrink or undergo a certain amount of folding , and the outline of the compound cell then becomes irregular ; and in these cases the resemblance to a pair of yeast-cells , joined by their necks , often becomes lost .
The various stages of development of the compound cells and of the spores have been observed in hanging drops of sterile distilled water , in which have been placed a considerable number of vigorously growing cells , obtained in the same manner as those used for the gypsum-block spore cultures .
The hanging drops were kept under observation under the microscope at a temperature of about 25 ' C. The first indications of change taking place in the cells were the gradual loss of their homogeneous appearance and the development of bright-looking granules .
At the same time many of the cells produced one or two small buds .
In 12-48 hours after sowing it was MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" noticed that several cells were producing small outgrowths , which in the earliest stages could not be distinguished from very young buds .
As these projections grew larger , however , it was seen that they were not young forms of buds , but outgrowths of a different nature .
They grew in length without becoming swollen as is the case with buds , and without any noticeable increase in width , until they presented the appearance of small beak-like tubular processes .
Having selected for special observation two cells close together and each with a single protuberance of the kind just described , the tips of the beaks pointing towards one another , the further behaviour of these structures was discovered ( fig. 5 , a).The small tubes grew in length until their tips touched ( fig. 5 , b ) .
A gradual fusion then took place at the meeting point , the walls being apparently dissolved at that spot ( fig. 5 , c-f ) .
The disappearance of the transverse walls was followed by the fusion of the protoplasmic contents of the tubes , so that the protoplasm in either of the cells was made continuous with that in the other by the connecting band running through the fused tubes .
The walls at the point of contact also became continuous , possibly by the formation of cementing cellulose by the protoplasm at that point ( fig. 5 , f-h ) .
The appearance of the compound cells , thus formed , was that of two ordinary cells attached to one another by an elongated neck with complete communication of their cavities through the neck , and , at this stage , with protoplasm filling up the Avhole of the cells and the neck .
A few hours after fusion in each compartment of the compound cell the protoplasm began to contract , and the bright granules , mentioned above , arranged themselves more or less into two groups .
The contracted protoplasmic mass soon after showed signs of division into two rounded masses , and later on all signs of a single mass was lost , anil the outlines of the two bodies were well marked .
In connection with each of these was to be found one of the groups of bright granules ( fig. 5 , h\#151 ; k ) .
The rounded bodies of protoplasm turned out to be the young stages of spores .
They developed into ripe spores by continuing the rounding-off process , until each appeared as a well-defined spherical mass , and by completing it by the deposition of cell-walls around themselves ( fig. 5 , In the case described , two spores were formed in each half of the compound cell , but , as has been already stated , their number varies in different cases .
The formation of spores in this manner took place more slowly and with less certainty in hanging-drop cultures of distilled water than on porous gypsum plates .
This is no doubt due , in part at any rate , to deficient aeration in the foimei case as compared with the latter .
To obviate this to some extent , cultuies foi spoies weie made on gypsum plates , as described above , and were allowed to i email i at -.5 C. until examination of the vegetation showed the existence ol cells which weie just beginning to put out tubes for conjugation , borne of these cells weie then transferred to a hanging drop of distilled water and the subsequent stages observed as before .
For a few hours the further development of the tubes seemed to be MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
inhibited , probably owing to the sudden change of conditions , but afterwards they grew in normal fashion , at any rate in some cases .
In connection with the culture of this yeast in hanging drops of distilled water for the observation of the different stages in the process of spore-formation , use was made of Ward 's cells and water drops , as well as drops of dilute glycerine , since in experiments on the growth of the yeast in different media it had been found that if an infected drop of dilute glycerine was placed on a sterile glass slip in a moist chamber at 25 ' C. , many conjugated cells with or without spores , and cells with tubes in various stages of development , were produced .
In other cases ring-cells were used , and after a few trials satisfactory results were obtained by placing a single drop of distilled water or of dilute glycerine on the slide at the base of the cell , and then sealing on the cover-slip , on the underside of which was the infected drop of distilled water .
In this manner conjugation was obtained in a large majority of the drops .
When drops of dilute glycerine , of strengths varying from 1 per cent , to 25 per cent , of pure glycerine , were used instead of drops of distilled water , conjugation took place as freely as in those cases where water alone was used .
The size of the drop seems to be of considerable importance .
When it consists of a mere film of liquid , an abundant supply of spores is usually obtained , but when it is large , budding seems to supersede spore-formation to a considerable extent , this behaviour doubtless depending largely on the nature of the aeration of the cells .
The influence of this factor is shown further if a tube containing about 10 cub. centims. of distilled water is infected with vigorous cells .
In such a tube of distilled water , kept at 25 ' C. , the production of spores is very small , and large numbers of very irregular cells are produced ( fig. 6 ) .
Cells of this type show great variety in shape , and have already been mentioned as occurring in old colonies on plates of beer-wort gelatine and in hanging drops of the same medium .
They may now be considered in greater detail , since their nature and form seem to receive explanation from facts observed in connection with spore-formation .
The irregular cells are derived from ordinary yeast-like cells .
The latter put out small projections or processes , which , at first , cannot be distinguished from very young buds , but which subsequently resemble the beaks put out by the cells in the process of spore-formation .
There may be as many as three or four such processes developed from a single cell , in which case its resemblance to a yeast-cell is very small .
These processes again may put out small protuberances , and in cases where these develop to any pronounced extent , a branching structure is produced .
Other processes may swell up to a greater or less extent , in which case they resemble daughter-cells attached to the mother-cell , with communication between them .
A small oval or round cell is often completely budded off* at the tip of such a process , remaining attached to it at the point of origin of the bud .
In other cases , instead MR. R T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST.8 ' of tube-like protuberances the processes are short and blunt , like the pseudopodia of an amoeboid cell ( see fig. 2 ) .
These are especially abundant in old cultures on beer-wort gelatine .
If spore-cultures are made in the manner described for such cultures on gypsum blocks , but using sterilised pieces of an ordinary plant pot or of other less porous substances in place of the gypsum blocks , the development of irregular cells is very striking .
Most of the cells in such a culture show more or less irregularity after 48 hours , and the irregularity in most cases is even more pronounced than that of the cells in the cases mentioned above .
In some cells with a single protuberance the latter is so well developed , that the whole might almost he taken for a germinating spore ( see fig. 7 ) .
Cells containing spores are to he found , but they occur with much less frequency than in cultures on plates of more porous material .
Moreover , their shapes in a large number of cases are much more varied and irregular than those of the spore-containing cells developed on gypsum plates , or in hanging drops of distilled water , and the same feature is noticeable in the compound cells formed in distilled water .
Many compound cells of the greatest irregularity of form are also found , in which no spores develop .
Vigorous cells were placed in a solution of Mayer 's solution^ to which 2 per cent , of peptone had been added , and this culture was kept at 25 ' C. In 3-4 weeks , irregular cells were found in abundance and were more complicated than those produced by any other method used , compound cells of the most varied shapes being seen , but comparatively few contained spores ( see fig. 8 ) .
There seems to he little doubt that these irregular cells , in most cases at any rate , are the results of attempts on the part of the ordinary yeast-like cells at spore-formation .
The tube-like processes are , when unbranched and not swollen , exactly similar in appearance to , although longer than , the tubes which have been observed in hanging drops of distilled water , and which play an active part in the conjugation which precedes spore-formation .
The greater length of the former is explained by a consideration of the conditions under which the tubes are developed in the two cases .
It has already been stated that the best development of spores in hanging drops of distilled water has been attained when the drop consists of a mere film of liquid .
The cells in this film , which take part in the spore-formation , are found very close together , and the development of a tube by any cell seems in most cases to be answered by the development of a similar tube towards it from the cell nearest to it .
In those cases , where no such corresponding tube is produced , it is perhaps allowable to suppose that the cell is not in the right stage or condition to respond .
I he more nearly the conditions approach those which have been shown , by Hansen ( 1 ) and Klebs ( 5 ) , * Ammonium tar trate ... ... ... ... 1 gramme .
Potassium phosphate ... ... ... ..A , , Magnesium sulphate ... ... ... ... ... .'25 " Calcium phosphate ... ... ... ... .'05 " Distilled water ... ... ... ... .100 cub. centims. YOL .
CXCIY.---B .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
to be conducive to abundant and successful spore-formation , the better the response we may expect to find on the part of such a neighbouring cell .
This may explain why there is a relatively abundant spore-formation in cases where the drop is nothing more than a film of water , and also in gypsum plate-cultures , and also why the tubes are comparatively short .
For in these cases the conditions are as favourable as possible , and consequently the chances that any two neighbouring cells will combine together in spore-formation are relatively great .
But in other cases where the conditions are not so favourable\#151 ; e.g. , in tubes of distilled water , large hanging drops of water , and spore-cultures on plates of a poorly porous material , where the aeration is not so good as in the previous cases ; or in old cultures on solid media , such as beer-wort gelatine , where the cells themselves are often not sufficiently vigorous ; and in old cultures in liquid media , such as peptone Mayer solution , where not only the cells are not sufficiently vigorous for the most part but also the aeration is deficient\#151 ; the chances that two neighbouring cells will unite in spore-formation are relatively small , and when a union takes place , the neck , composed of the two fused tubes , will generally he relati vely long , for the cells capable of taking part in such a union are not so likely to be found so near together as in those cases where all conditions are favourable .
At the same time cells which have to provide long tubes before conjugation can take place , must suffer a considerable loss of energy in the production of the tubes , and the surrounding conditions must make it very difficult to replace that loss .
In consequence of this one would expect to find many cases in which the further development of the tubes had ceased after a certain amount of growth , and also cases in which fusion of the tubes had occurred , hut no spore-formation had taken place on account of exhaustion .
The observed facts suggest this view .
These considerations , then , explain both the increased length of the tubes and also the decreased spore-formation of cells under the less favourable conditions , that have been noted .
They help to explain , moreover , the irregularities of the cells under such conditions .
It seems in the highest degree probable that there is some kind of stimulus , chemical or otherwise , which acts on the cells which take part in spore-formation , both preparatory to and during the course of the growth of the tubes .
Without supposing the existence of a stimulus , it is difficult to account for the answering development and the direction of the course of any pair of tubes .
Under favourable conditions this stimulus acts between a pair of cells , situated very near to one another and capable of showing ready response to its action .
Such a pair of cells may he considered to be dominated by this stimulus on account of their proximity and of the vigour of their response to it , and for these reasons they may he looked upon as indifferent to the action of similar stimuli , coming from other directions .
But when the cases of cells under less favourable conditions are taken into account , it will he seen that such cases as that just described may be comparatively rare .
Most of such cells are no longer practically dominated by one stimulus .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" 1 hose capable of responding to the stimulus are more widely separated and consequently may he influenced simultaneously by stimuli coming from different directions , and may show a response to each of these by producing tubes in various directions .
The development of these tubes may continue until the cell is exhausted , or until conjugation takes place in one case , or until , for some reason , the stimulus from one direction exerts a greater influence than the rest , and growth is more or less concentrated in that direction .
Or again , a cell may respond to a stimulus in one direction only , and after a certain amount of development has taken place , the stimulus might cease to act ( as one would expect frequently to happen where conditions are not very favourable ) : a stimulus in a different direction may then influence the cell , and call forth the development of a tube in the new direction .
In such and similar ways cells of the most irregular shapes could be produced .
Two or more cells may answer to the same stimulus , which will explain the existence of cell-groups in which two of the cells have conjugated in a normal manner , while at the point of fusion is attached the tip of a tube coming from a third cell ; or the similar attachment of such a tube to a second tube from one of the conjugated cells may occur ( see fig. 9 ) .
The tendency of tubes , which have no opportunity of conjugating , to swell up into bud-like forms or blunt processes has already been noted .
The irregular cells , then , may fairly be considered as derived from ordinary yeast-like cells , which , under the various influences mentioned , have made attempts to produce spores by conjugation , and in consequence have undergone in many cases a complete change in form .
The Behaviour of the Nuclear Conjugation .
On account of the unique character of the method of spore-formation , a complete account of the behaviour of the nucleus , or its equivalent , would be very interesting .
Unfortunately the nature of the nucleus in a yeast-cell is still a matter of controversy , and it would be outside the scope of this paper to enter into a discussion on that subject .
Nevertheless , certain interesting and suggestive appearances were discovered when the cells of this organism in different stages of conjugation were hardened and stained .
The method adopted was as follows :\#151 ; Spore-cultures on pieces of porous porcelain jilate were made and placed at 25 C. for a length of time , varying in different cases from 16 to 30 hours , so as to insure the occurrence of cells at all different stages of conjugation .
The pieces of porcelain were then placed bodily in the hardening fluid , and , after hardening , cells were scraped off from the surface of the porcelain and placed in a drop of water on a glass slide .
They were thoroughly mixed in this droj3 so as to separate the individual cells , and the drop was then allowed to evaporate , giving a layer of cells fixed on the slide .
These were then stained on the slide .
MR , B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
Various hardening fluids were tried , viz. , a solution of iodine in potassium iodide solution , Merkel 's solution , and Rath 's solution .
Among the different stains used were fuchsin-methyl green , as used by Wager ( 2 ) ; the li8ematoxylin-iron alum method , as used by Hoffmeister ( 3 ) ; eosin and toluidine blue , as described by Miss Huje ( 4 ) ; and the Flemming triple stain ( 11 ) .
Separate cells , similar in appearance to an ordinary ovoid yeast-cell , showed in most cases a round , darkly stained mass in the centre of the cell , and situated around or in connection with this was a less deeply stained portion , which in well-stained preparations seemed to be made up of numerous deeply stained granules .
The granular structure , however , was not by any means always to be seen .
The rest of the cell was only slightly stained , or ( with heematoxylin especially ) not at all .
It contained , however , well-stained granules , in groups or separate , distributed in the non-staining portion ( fig. 10 , a ) .
Cells with a small tube just beginning to be developed , showed in most cases the deeply stained mass situated at the point of origin of the tube , while a portion of it filled up the tube ( fig. 10 , b ) .
The same appearance was observed when the tube had attained a greater length ; but in cases where the tube was very long , the mass did not usually fill the whole of the tube , and sometimes did not project into it at all .
Since , however , as a rule , fusion takes place , under the conditions ot the experiment from which these preparations were made , when the tubes are quite short or of only a moderate length , this appearance can be taken as denoting an abnormal stage .
Cells which , as far as can be judged from their appearance , have just conjugated , showed a darkly staining mass filling the whole of the neck connecting them with a portion projecting at , each end into the cells ( fig. 10 , c ) .
Both in such cases and in those of cells before conjugation there was an irregular network of deeply stained granules distributed throughout the cell .
Thus far what happens in conjugation seems clear .
The deeply stained central mass in the ovoid yeast-like cell undoubtedly represents a part at least of the nuclear apparatus .
In some cases , where it is particularly well defined and stained , it is impossible to distinguish any difference between it and the nucleus of an ordinary cell ; but in some cells no trace of such a body can be found , unless it is represented by some of the deeply staining granules distributed throughout the cell .
However , this deeply stained body shifts its position from the centre of the cell .to the point of origin of the conjugating tube , when this begins to appear , and as this develops protrudes into it , remaining there until conjugation , and then fusing with the similar mass in the tube of the other cell taking part in the conjugation .
Thus the process of conjugation seems to be accompanied by nuclear fusion , and it is for this reason probably a sexual process .
Whether this fusion merely represents the fusion of two specialised portions of the nuclear apparatus , or whether the darkly stained portions at the moment of fusion represent the whole of the nuclear apparatus of the MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" conjugating cells , can only be determined when the exact nature of that apparatus is properly understood .
What happens after this stage is not so clear .
Some compound cells showed a deeply stained mass lying at the mouth of the connecting tube in one cell with a portion running a little way across into the other cell ( fig. 10 , d ) .
The latter showed no deeply stained mass , but contained an irregular network of granules ( presumably the cytoplasm ) , and a similar network was also to be seen in the former cell .
Fig. 10 , c , and fig. 10 , d , may be objected to on the ground of their resemblance to an ordinary yeast-cell with a bud : they were selected on account of their wide connecting necks , thereby showing with especial clearness the exact position of the deeply stained mass .
They represent , however , two stages which are quite commonly found in compound cells , about the true nature of which there can be no doubt .
Other compound cells showed the deeply stained mass contracted entirely into one cell , the neck and the other cell being devoid of such a mass ( fig. 10 , e ) .
Other instances were observed in which a more or less irregular mass was found in each compartment of a compound cell both in the neighbourhood of the neck , sometimes one or both extending into the neck , and around these masses was grouped , more or less completely , the granular network , which was very prominent and deeply stained ( fig. 10 , / ) .
Later stages of the same were also seen , but in these the deeply stained masses in each compartment , or sometimes in one only , showed signs of rounding off into spherical bodies ( fig. 10 , g ) , and still later stages showed that these were the rudimentary spores ( fig. 10 , h).Around these the granular network was arranged , becoming separated into two groups as the spores became better defined , one group around each spore .
In older cells ripe spores were found , with lightly stained walls and deeply stained contents ( fig. 10 , i).Whether a definite karyokinesis occurs in the process could not be determined .
The history of the deeply stained body seems to be clear from the stage where two such bodies are found in the compound cell , one in each compartment .
What takes place in such a case ( assuming that four spores , two in each compartment , are finally formed , as is usually the case ) seems to be the division of each body into two , accompanied by an aggregation and subsequent division of granules into two groups , one going to each spore , and each of the masses so produced takes part in the formation , and serves as the foundation of a spore , the earlier history of the fused deeply stained body is not obvious .
There appears to be a contraction of the fused mass into one compartment , and , if this be the case , there must be a subsequent division of this and the return of one-half into the other compartment .
'Whethei this division takes place in the former compartment , or whether a portion of the mass projects across the neck into the other cell and then division into two takes place , is not known ; for in certain cases either interpretation may fairly be given to the appearances seen .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
The size of the deeply stained masses in the cells varies considerably .
Sometimes they are very small and inconspicuous , and comparatively lightly stained , while on other occasions they are large and at once catch the eye .
The shape also seems to he variable .
In the ordinary yeast-like ovoid cells they are usually round and well-defined ; but in cells with tubes , and also after conjugation , they often appear to be irregular and not sharply defined .
The division of the mass immediately preceding spore-formation appears to be single .
The mass elongates and becomes narrower in the middle and swollen at each end , so resembling an hour-glass .
Eventually separation takes place across the middle .
In many cases , however , the granular network is so prominent that these appearances are not seen , and a state resembling a kind of karyokinetic division is shown .
The granular network seems to play a very active part in this stage of spore-formation , and it also may possibly be nuclear in nature .
The fusions which occur in connection with this process of spore-formation seem to be different in nature from the fusions of hyphse which have been observed in many Fungi , owing to the nuclear behaviour and the formation of spores as a sequel to the fusion .
Marshall Ward ( 6 ) has described the hyphal fusions occurring in a Botrytis form , parasitic on Lilium candidumand the only feature in common between the two types of fusion seems to be the development of the two parts which eventually fuse , answering to some kind of stimulus acting between them .
Brefeld ( 7 ) and others have described the sporidial fusions of the Ustilaginese , which are probably similar in nature to the ordinary hyphal fusions .
Kihlmann ( 8 ) also has described the fusions taking place in Pyronema .
The conjugation of this yeast form finds its parallel , perhaps , in the sexual fusions , preceding ascospore formation , of such Ascomycetes as Eremascus .
The nearest approach to it , however , is the fusion of cells preceding spore-formation of the yeast octosporus , as observed by Schionning ( 9 ) , the account of which I have taken from Jorgensen 's text-book on ' Micro-organisms and Fermentation ' ( 10 ) .
In this form a single yeast-like cell divides into two daughter-cells by the formation of a partition wall , and these separate until they only remain attached together at one point .
They then again coalesce , and at last form a lengthened ellipsoidal , hour-glass shaped , or irregular cell , which gradually increases in bulk , and within which a varying number of spores ( usually eight ) are formed .
Hoffmeister ( 3 ) supplements this account by a description of the nuclear behaviour .
Using the haematoxylin iron-alum staining method , he found a darkly stained body , which he considers nuclear in nature , in each of the daughter-cells .
Fusion of these daughter-cells was followed by fusion of the darkly stained bodies .
The single " nucleus " so formed then divides into two , and again into four and eight ( or a number corresponding to the number of spores eventually produced ) , and around each of these daughter- " nuclei " a mass of protoplasm aggregates , and from each such combination a ripe spore is developed .
It will be noticed that this process of spore-formation and the one described above correMR .
B. T. P BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" spend in essential points , the only distinction being that the manner of conjugation differs .
Further , it will he seen that this similarity affords a link for binding together the " budding " yeast-like organisms and the fission " yeasts .
" Germination of the Spores .
The germination of the spores has been observed in hanging-drop cultures .
A tube of beer-wort gelatine was infected with cells from a gypsum block spore-culture , many of which contained ripe spores .
The tube was heated for 5 minutes at 55 ' 0 .
in order to kill the ordinary vegetative cells , which were mixed with the spore-containing cells , and which might otherwise have interfered with the observation of the germinating spores , owing to their rapid budding .
Hanging drops were then made from the contents of the tube , and compound cells in the drops were kept under observation at 18-19 ' C. About 24 hours after making the drops the spores began to swell , and when the diameter was nearly doubled , they began to bud like ordinary yeast-cells , and their development continued in this manner , a colony of ovoid and round yeast-like cells being ultimately produced ( fig. 11 ) : the fate of the mother-cell walls was not clearly seen in most cases , it being difficult to make out whether splitting or gradual solution took place .
When , however , a tube of beer-wort was used instead of beer-wort gelatine , and kept at 25 ' C. , examination of the contents after 24-48 hours showed many germinating spores in all stages , and a large number of these were still entangled in the mother-cell walls .
In such cases it was seen that the mother-cell walls were ruptured by the swelling of the spores within , and that the latter made their escape by that means ( fig. 12 ) .
Temperature Limits for The spores are formed most easily and quickly between 25 and 30 ' 0 .
Using the gypsum-block method , at 25-27 ' C. , the first signs of spores ( fig. 13 ) in the compound cells appear in 20-24 hours ; and at 34'0 .
in 32-36 hours .
Above and below these temperatures , spore-formation takes place more slowly .
At 36-37 ' C. spores appear in 2-3 days , and none seem to be formed at a higher temperature than 37-38 ' C. At 13-15 ' C. 10-14 days are required , and below 13 ' C. practically no spores are formed .
After 16 hours at 26 ' C. many cells with the small tube-like projections can be found , and in some cases conjugation has taken place ( fig. 14 ) .
At 33 ' C. this process takes place rather more slowly .
The newly ripened spores are generally killed by heating in beer-wort for 10 minutes at 60 ' C. , but in some cases they survive exposure to a temperature of 65 ' C. for 5 minutes .
Fermentation .
A fairly brisk fermentation occurs in tubes of beer-wort , especially if the voit be infected with vigorously growing cells which have been cultivated at 25 C. for MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
24 hours .
Fermentation begins to be noticeable in 10-24 hours after infection at 25 ' C. and continues for 2 or 3 days .
If the fermented wort be distilled and the distillate subjected to the iodoform test , crystals of iodoform are formed , proving the presence of alcohol .
The fermentation of beer-wort has been noticed in every case in which beer-wort has been used for cultivating the organism .
Lsevulose is also fermented vigorously , and dextrose and saccharose slightly .
Maltose , lactose , and dextrin are not fermented .
A mixture of dextrose with maltose and dextrin is fermented more freely than dextrose alone .
With regard to the fermentations of dextrose and saccharine , while in many cases comparatively vigorous fermentations were obtained , there were nevertheless many cases in which no visible sign of fermentation was seen , although ajjparently the conditions were identical , and no outside infection , which might have caused the alcoholic fermentation , had occurred .
Long-continued cultivation in beer-wort seems to have increased its fermentative activity for that medium .
General Conclusions .
In conclusion , there seem to be three possible views regarding the nature of this fusion-process or conjugation of yeast-cells , viz. : ( 1 ) it is a mere cell-fusion such as so frequently occurs between contiguous cells in fungi ; ( 2 ) it is a true sexual process , such as is now known to occur in many fungi ; or ( 3 ) it is an abnormal or pathological phenomenon due to the conditions of culture .
Taking the last possibility first .
Its improbability seems demonstrated on reflecting that the result of the process is the production of normal healthy spores , capable of germinating , and that the conditions are exactly such as are generally efficacious in the production of spores in yeasts of all kinds .
True , the process is one of starvation , so far as organic food-materials are concerned , but Klebs has shown clearly that just such methods of suddenly starving previously well-nourished organisms usually result in the development of sexual organs .
The process seems to consist in the cell suddenly being driven to utilise its stores , in presence of free oxygen , and at a suitable temperature , and one expression of the results is the accumulation of nuclear substance in the non-growing cell .
Another is the reaction of the nucleated protoplasm on neighbouring masses ; and the exertion of chemotropic attractions .
Passing now to the second of the three possibilities given above .
It would appear that in this conjugation of yeast-cells we have the protrusion of tubular beak-like processes in two opposed cells , each of which has accumulated quantities of sporo-genous nucleated protoplasm .
The movements of the beaks each towards the other , and the peculiar curvatures often shown , suggest mutual attraction , of the kind apparent in a conjugating Mucor or Spirogyra , prior to the formation of zygo-spores .
The presence of the nuclear substance in the young beak ( fig. 10 , b ) suggests that it is actively concerned in exerting this attraction , or in forming the beak , or both ; and its further behaviour in the conjugating process ( fig. 10 , c , and d ) points to a mingling MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" of the nuclear substance as in a true sexual process .
These seem good grounds on which to base the conclusion that we have here a true\#151 ; though very simple\#151 ; sexual act , leading to the formation of spores in one or both of the conjugating cells .
Let us now examine the first possibility mentioned above .
Is the case before us merely one of cell-fusions , such as frequently occur in the anastomoses between hyphse ?
There are facts among the true yeasts to support such a possibility , for ITansen found that the germinal tubes arising from spores of Ludwigii ( Hans .
) often fuse along their course but it must not be overlooked that in the present case the cell-fusions occur not between young cells , but at the end of growth , at a time when much nuclear substance has been accumulated but the cells themselves are not actively growing .
Moreover , although we are still in want of information as to details , it does not appear that in ordinary cell-fusions the nucleus , or nuclear substance , plays any essential part beyond\#151 ; possibly\#151 ; starting the softening of the cell-walls , and perhaps initiating the attractive processes which lead to the mutual putting forth of the fusing beaks .
At any rate it is generally admitted that nuclear fusions do not occur in such cases , and since in the present instance the nuclear substance appears to mingle , and the fusions take place as a preliminary to spore-formation , and after the cessation of active growth , the process appears to be more important than mere anastomoses of hypha3 .
To the three possibilities mentioned and discussed above we might add yet another , viz. , that the act of union might conceivably be one of parasitism , were it not that the similar and equal reciprocal action of each cell , and the certainty that the cultures are pure , preclude any such conclusion , unless we are prepared to extend it to other cases of sexual union .
In a certain sense it may be true that a sexual union may be an act of and the frequent cases of union between the nuclei of neighbouring cells , recently divided off from one another , often present suggestive resemblances to parasitism ; but in the case before us the act of conjugation directly precedes the definite formation of spores , and thus seems to be an example of sexual union at least as clear as that of conjugation between zoospores .
* There is one aspect of all simple sexual acts that appears worthy of further attention , and which is suggested very definitely by the present case .
It would appear that whenever nucleated spore-producing protoplasm is being stored in neighbouring cells , or whenever it has been accumulated and is parted by a septum , a strong tendency exists for union .
Numerous examples can be given , such as the fusions of sporidia of Ustilaginse or of Protomyces , the nuclear fusions in Teleutospores , AEcidiospores , \amp ; c. , or those in the ascogenous cells of Erysiphese , Exoascus , \amp ; c. , and in the basidia of Hymenomycetes .
Also the fusion of sister-cells in some Conjugate , e.g. , Spirogyra .
* Similarly with the imperfectly known S. ( Cav .
) .
t Dangeard , ' Programme d'un Essai sir la Reproduction sexuelle , ' p , 3 of reprint .
VOL. CXCIV.---B .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
" On the other hand , cell-fusions\#151 ; whether accompanied by nuclear fusion or not\#151 ; are common in cases were no such accumulation of sporogenous substance can be postulated , e.g. , the nuclear fusions in the embryo-sac , the formation of clamp-connections in the mycelium of Basidiomycetes and of anastomoses in the hyphse of Ascomycetes , \amp ; c. How far this may mean that unions which are not necessary to the species\#151 ; and not truly sexual\#151 ; may occur in fungi , cannot he determined so long as our only criterion of a sexual process is the mere fusion of nuclei .
If in Sphcerotlieca nuclear fusion occurs between the oogonium and antheridium , and again occurs between the two nuclei in the sub-apical cell of the ascogenous filament , as Harper asserts , we appear to be in a difficulty as to which is the sexual process .
Oltmanns seems to have solved the difficulty in the case of the\#151 ; apparent\#151 ; double process in Floridese , by showing that while nuclear fusion occurs in the union between spermatium and oosphere , it is absent from the subsequent unions between the ooblastemata and auxiliary cells .
But the difficulty again crops up in phanerogams , in which observers already speak of " double fertilisation"\#151 ; one between the oosphere and the sperm-nucleus , and another between the definitive nucleus and the second sperm-nucleus ; meanwhile there is yet to be explained the fusion of the two embryo-sac nuclei to form the definitive nucleus .
Do all these phenomena point to the fact that wherever nuclear substance can gain energy by fusion with nuclear substance of slight difference of potential , this is effected ; and are we j ustified in concluding that whenever such a union results in the formation and setting aside of a definite reproductive cell\#151 ; sexual spore , zygote , fertilised egg-cell\#151 ; that particular union may be termed sexual ?
It would seem very probable that such is the case , and that sexual unions are only a particular case of fusions which are always apt to occur if nuclear substance comes near other nuclear substance within the sphere in which mutual attraction can make itself potent .
Be this as it may , it seems difficult on any grounds to reject the conclusion that we have in this case of a conjugating yeast , an unexpected example of a sexual process of the simplest kind .
Finally the question arises as to the systematic position of the yeast here described .
In that it " buds " ( pullulates ) , induces alcoholic fermentation , and forms one to five ( usually two ) spores in the cells , its characters accord with those of Saccharomyces , but no known Saccharomyces has its spore-formation preceded by an act of conjugation .
It seems necessary therefore to propose a new genus , and on the analogy of Schizo-saccharomyces\#151 ; the name given by Beyerinck to a form which first divides into two cells which then fuse again as the spores develop\#151 ; it might perhaps be called Zygo-saccharomyces .
The above work has been carried on at the Cambridge University Botanical MR B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
Laboratory by permission of Professor Marshall Ward , to whom I should like to take this opportunity of expressing my thanks for his constant help and advice during the whole course of the work .
Bibliography .
1 .
E. C. Hansen .
11 ' Becherches sir la physiologie et la morphologie des ferments alcooliques .
II .
Les ascospores , " \amp ; c. ' Comptes Bendus des Trav .
du Lab .
de Carlsberg , ' vol. 2 .
1883 .
2 .
H. Wager .
" The Nucleus of the Yeast Plant .
" ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 12 , No. 48 .
3 .
Hoffmeister .
" Zum Nachweise des Zellkernes bei Saccharomyces , " ' Sitzungsber .
d. naturw-medicin .
Yer .
d. Bohmen " Lotos .
" ' 1900 .
No. 5 .
4 .
Miss L. Huie .
" Changes in the Cell Organs of rotundifolia produced by feeding with Egg Albumen , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 39 , N.S. 5 .
Klebs .
" Die Bedingungen der Fortpflanzung einiger Algen und Pilze , " ' Prings .
Jahrb .
, ' vol. 35 , p. 94 , \amp ; c. 6 .
Marshall Ward .
" A Lily Disease , " 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 2 , No. 7 .
7 .
Brefeld .
' Bot. Unters .
ii .
Hefenpilze .
' 1883 .
8 .
Kihlmann .
" Sir Entwickelungsgeschichte der Ascomyceten , " ' Act .
Soc. Sci. Fennicae , ' t. 13 .
9 .
Schionning .
" Nouvelle et singuliere formation d'ascus dans un levure , " ' Count .
Bend , des Meddelels .
fra Carlsbergs Labor .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 1 .
1895 .
10 .
Jorgensen .
' Micro-organisms and Fermentation , ' p. 208 .
Third Ed. English Translation .
1900 .
11 .
Zimmermann .
' Botanical Microtechnique , ' 1896 , p. 186 .
Description of Plate 46 .
Fig. 1 .
Early stages in the development of a colony from a single cell by budding , as observed in a hanging drop of beer-wort gelatine .
X 750 .
a. April 23 , 1900 , 12.15 p.m. , temperature 19 ' C. b. " 23 , 5 p.m. , 19 ' C. c. " 24 , 9.30 a.m. , 19 ' C. d. " 24 , 11.30 a.m. , 15'5 ' C. e. " 24 , 2.35 p.m. , 16'5 ' C. / " 24 , 7.15 p.m. , 16-5 ' C. Fig. 2 .
Irregular cells from a three weeks old colony in a hanging drop ol beer-wort gelatine at ordinary room temperature ( 15-20 ' C. ) .
X 500 .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
Fig. 3 .
Young colonies of ovoid and round yeast-like cells , developing from irregular cells , similar to those shown in fig. 2 , when placed in a hanging drop of fresh beer-wort gelatine , after 3G hours at 15-20 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 4 .
Spore-containing and irregular cells , found on a gypsum-block spore culture , 2 days old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 5 .
Stages in the formation of spores by conjugation of two cells , from a hanging drop of distilled water , made on December 4,1900 , and kept at about 25 ' C. X 1000 .
a. Dec. G , 10.55 A.M. , 25 ' C. b. Dec. G , 11.25 A.M. , 2G ' C. c. \gt ; 5 6 , 11.55 a.m. , 27 ' C. d. 6 , 12.30 p.m. , 27 ' C. e. 6 , 1.15 p.m. , 27 ' C. f 6 , 2.15 p.m. , 27 ' C. 9- 6 , 4.45 p.m. , \#163 ; 7 ' C. 6 , 6.30 p.m. , 25 ' C. i. 6 , 9.45 p.m. , 23 ' C. j- ? ?
7 , 12 , 5 A.M. , 25 ' C. k 7 , 1 A.M. , 26 ' C. l \gt ; \gt ; 7 , 2 .
A.M. , 24 ' C. m. 7 , 3 a.m. , 25 ' C. n 'y 11.50 a.m. , 25 ' C. Fig. 6 .
Irregular cells from a tube of distilled water , 4 days old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 7 .
Irregular cells found in cultures for spores on pieces of plant pot , 27 hours old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig 8 .
Irregular cells from a tube of peptone-Mayer 's solution , 3 weeks old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 9 .
Irregular cells from a tube of distilled water , 4 days old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 10 .
Cells fixed with Rath 's solution and stained with the Flemming triple stain , from spore-cultures on gypsum blocks , 10-30 hours old , at 25 ' C. a. Ovoid cell , showing central darkly stained round body and well-stained granules .
X 1200 .
h. Ovoid cell with small tube just developing , showing darkly stained body , situated at the point of origin of the tube and projecting into it , and granular network .
X 1200 .
c. Compound cell , formed by conjugation of two cells , with darkly stained mass , stretching across the connecting tube from one cell to the other , and granular network .
X 1300 .
d. Compound cell with darkly stained body , situated in one cell only , and projecting partly into the connecting tube , and granular network .
X 1300 .
e. Compound cell , showing darkly stained mass , situated in one cell only , close to the opening of the connecting tube , and granular network .
X 1400 .
f Compound cell , each compartment containing an elongated darkly stained body with an aggregation of the prominently shown granular network around it .
X 1400 .
MR. B. T. P. BARKER ON A CONJUGATING " YEAST .
' g. Compound cell , showing the division of the darkly stained mass in each compartment by constriction and the arrangement of the conspicuous deeply stained granular network .
X 1400 .
h. Compound cell , showing the rounding off of the divided portions of the deeply stained masses into spores , with deeply stained granules on their surfaces .
X 1400 .
i. Compound cell , containing ripe spores , whose walls are hut lightly stained .
X 1400 .
Fig. 11 .
Germination of spores contained in compound cells as observed in hanging drops of beer-wort gelatine at ordinary room temperature ( 18-19 ' C. ) .
X 750 .
a. Sept. 25 , 2.30 P.M. b. Sept. 28 , 11 a.m. c. " 28 , 3.30 P.M. cl " 25 , 12 a.m. e , " 26 , 4 P.M. " 27 , 9.30 a.m. 9 .
" 27 , 1 p.m. h. " 27 , 4.30 p.m. Fig. 12 .
Germinating spores from a tube of beer-wort , showing remains of the split mother-cell walls entangled among the germinating spores .
X 500 .
Fig. 13 .
Conjugated cells and cells with small tubes from a gypsum block spore-culture , 19j hours old , at 25 ' C. X 750 .
Fig. 14 .
Conjugated cells with rudimentary spores from the same culture 3 hours later .
X 750 .
BarUr .
Phil Trccns .
B , Vol. I94 , 46 .
M.P Parker litk .
F\amp ; xker db West imp .

