308 Dr. W. Ramsay and Mr. S. Young .
[ June 2lv tangent from the centre to the ring , and is therefore equal to R f0P small rings\#151 ; and / * is the cyclic constant .
For a solid ring , with the same notation , V=-\#163 ; jfiog*-A 4\lt ; Tra \ In the steady motion considered , the fluid carried forward with the ring forms a single mass without aperture , even for extremely small cores , though not for infinitely small ones .
For values of R/ r \gt ; 103 there will he no aperture , whilst for less values the fluid carried for-ward will be ring-shaped .
To a first approximation the energy due to the cyclic motion is the most important , and is the same as for a rigid ring at rest of the same size , it does not depend on the velocity of translation , except in so far as this determines the size of the aperture ; as entering in this way the principal term varies inversely as the velocity of translation , and thus increases with diminished- ; translatory motion , a result obtained by Sir W. Thomson* from ] general reasoning .
The terms obtained by the second approximation !
arise from the translatory motion .
Lastly , the times of vibration in classes ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) above are determined , when the ring moves steadily .
In class ( 2 ) , or for fluted vibrations , the time of vibration for small rings is given very approximately by fidK^p^/ n ) , d being the density , and j ) the pressure of the fluid at a great distance , whilst n is the number of crimpings in a section .
This is the proof of the statement made above as to the independence of the temperature .
In class ( 4 ) the time of pulsation is ( / i/ i/ 2p ) y ( log 4/ 7c ) .
As h depends on the size of the ring , and therefore on the energy , this time is not independent of the latter , but varies slowly with it .
The times here given must he understood as applying to rings moving steadily ; when a ring is changing its size they must be modified .
The investigation of this case , and of that in which there is a core of denser matter than the surrounding fluid , I hope shortly to take up .
III .
" Influence of Pressure on the Temperature of Volatilization of Solids .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , and Sydney Young , B.Sc. Communicated by Sir Andrew Ramsay , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in the paper were undertaken in order to ascertain whether solids have definite volatilizing points , under * " Yortex Atoms , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, " vij " Phil. Mag. , " ( 4 ) , 34 .
1883 ] On the Temperature of Volatilization of Solids .
309 different pressures , as liquids have definite boiling points , and whether these pressures are identical with their vapour tensions .
When a liquid is heated by conduction , * as for example when a flame is placed below a vessel containing liquid , till the temperature rises to its boiling point , either ebullition or superheating takes place .
It would thus seem that , in the case of superheating , the surface of the liquid is not large enough to afford escape for the gaseous molecules liberated ; or the convection currents are not rapid enough to convey ihe superheated liquid from the lower strata to the surface .
If the surface is superheated , the first reason would seem to.be correct ; if ^the surface , on the other hand , is at its normal temperature , the second explanation is applicable .
When ebullition takes place , the liquid increases its surface by the formation of bubbles , and as heat is totally absorbed in producing evaporation , the temperature of the liquid remains constant .
If the supply of heat is increased , evaporation is .also more rapid , and facility is given to more rapid evaporation , by the formation of more numerous and larger bubbles , which increase the evaporating surface .
A solid has a limited surface , which cannot be increased by formation of bubbles ; and it might therefore be expected that on increasing the supply of heat , the temperature of the*solid should rise , until a temperature is reached at which its rate of evaporation is equivalent to the rate at which heat is communicated to it .
Reasoning thus , the existence of hot ice was maintained by Dr. Carnelley and other writers in a series of letters which appeared in " Nature " during the years 1881 and 1882 .
On the other hand , a liquid in the spheroidal state presents a free surface of evaporation in every direction , and yet although exposed to radiation from a white-hot surface , its temperature does not rise even to the boiling point ; and we find it impossible to raise the temperature of water above 90 ' , by applying heat to its surface .
In such cases the surface appears to be large enough to allow vapour to escape with sufficient rapidity to prevent superheating .
If , then , the rate of evaporation at the surface of a solid is independent of the extent of that surface , but is influenced only by the rate at which heat is communicated to it , and , as in the case of liquids , by i the pressure to which it is exposed , it follows that solids have definite temperatures of evaporation , or subliming points , corresponding to definite pressures , as liquids have definite boiling points .
Our experiments with water , acetic acid , benzene , naphthalene , and camphor , show that this is the case ; and that with ice and camphor these pressures are sensibly the same as the maximum tensions of the vapours of these solids at corresponding temperatures .
In the case of ice , the maximum temperature which can be attained under any given pressure is indicated by James Thomson 's ice-steam line .
310 Mr. G. J. Symons .
[ June 21 , That the temperatures observed cannot be absolutely the same ig evident ; for there must be a certain excess of pressure in the neijriJ bourhood of the surface of the solid in order to produce a flow of vapour from it to the surrounding space ; and consequently the evaporating substance must have a higher temperature corresponding to this higher pressure .
Our results , we venture to think , show that with solids , as with liquids , this difference , even when rapid evaporation is taking place , is an extremely minute one .
IV .
" Note on the Establishment and First Results of Simultaneous Thermometric and Hygrometric Observations at Heights of 4 and 170 feet , and of Siemens ' Electrical Thermometer at 260 feet above the ground .
" By G. J. Symons , F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1883 .
It is just a century since James Six ( the inventor of the well-known Six 's registering thermometer ) commenced some occasional comparisons of the temperature of the air at the top and bottom of the tower of Canterbury Cathedral .
We do not precisely know the position in which the instruments were placed , and , as thermometer screens had not then been invented , his observations can only be accepted as approximately correct ; but as the work in which they are recorded is rather scarce , it may be well to give an analysis of the results .
The observations were not consecutive , but made at various dates during 1784-92 ; the lower thermometer was 5 feet , and the upper one 220 feet above the ground .
The daily maxima were about 1 ' warmer at the top during all frosty period ; alike at the top and the bottom when the temperature was between 40 ' and 50 ' , and lower at the top by from 3 ' to 5 ' when the temperature was about 50 ' .
The minima gave analogous but more marked differences .
Some very severe frosts occurred while these experiments were in progress , and with bottom temperatures of \#151 ; 2'-5 , +6 ' , and +6 ' *5 respectively , the top temperatures were 15 ' , 17 ' , and 21 ' , .
showing an excess at the top of 170,6 , 11 ' , and 14''5 .
In ordinary weather the excess of the top minima was not so great , but the average excess was 6 ' , and there was not a single night when it was colder at the top than at the bottom .
The author is not aware of any further experiments having been made upon this subject in this couutry until 1861 , when the Rev. R. Main , F.R.S. , Radcliffe Observer , had a record commenced of a Six 's registering thermometer , and dry and wet bulb thermometers placed near the anemometer on the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford .
These instruments were 106 feet above the ground , and were read

