March 25 , 1852 .
SIR J. HERSCHEL , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity : Twenty-ninth Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received Dec , 31 , 1851 .
April 1 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Faraday 's paper , " Experimental Researches in Electricity : Twenty-ninth Series , " was resumed and concluded .
In the present series of researches the author endeavours in the first place to establish the principles he announced in the last , with regard to the definite character of the lines of magnetic force , by results obtained experimentally with the magnetic force of the earth .
For this purpose he reverts to the thick wire galvanometer before described , and points out the precautions respecting the cleanliness of the coils , the thickness and shortness of the conductors , the perfect contacts , effected either by soldering or cups of mercury ; and marks the value of double observations , i. e. observations afforded on both sides of zero .
The nature of the impulse on the needles is pointed out ; being not that of a constant current for a limited or unlimited time , but of a given amount of electricity exerted , either regularly or irregularly , within a short period ; and it is shown experimentally that such impulses produce equal results of deflection , and also that when two or more such impulses are given within a limited time , the whole arc of swing is nearly proportional to their number ; so that the amount of deflection , within certain limits , indicates directly , nearly the proportion of electricity which has passed as a current through the instrument .
If a wire be formed into a square of 12 inches in the side , and then fixed on an axis passing across the middle parallel to two of its sides , and if , when that axis is perpendicular to the line of dip , the whole is rotated , then two of the sides of the rectangle will , in one revolution , twice intersect the lines of force of the earth passing across or through one square foot of area .
The currents then tending to move in the upper and lower parts of the rectangle , will conjoin to urge one current through the wire ; and if this wire be cut at one place close to the axis , and be there connected with a commutator of simple construction , which is described in the paper , the currents round the rectangle may be conveyed away to the galva .
nometer , and there measured .
Such a rectangle , constructed of copper wire one-twentieth of an inch in thickness , gave a certain arc of swing for one revolution .
If five or ten revolutions were made , within the time of vibrating of the needle , nearly five or ten times this amount of deflection was produced : the mean result , in the present case , was 2 ?
'624 per revolution .
When the same length of the same wire was arranged in oblong or oblate rectangles , so as to diminish the enclosed area in different directions as regarded the axis of revolution , still the deflection was in every case proportional to the areas included ; showing that the effect produced was proportional to the number of lines of force intersected by the moving wire .
The same result was obtained when two squares having areas in the proportion of 1 to 9 , were employed .
When squares of the same area were formed of copper wire of different thicknesses , then the effects of obstruction in the conducting part of the system were brought out and measured .
Thus , with wires which were 0'05 , 0-1 and 0-2 of an inch in diameter , and therefore in mass as 1 , 4 , and 16 , the deflections were 1 , 2-78 , and 3*45 ; a result almost identical with that obtained for the same wires by the use of loops and a local magnet in the former researches .
When two equal rectangles were compared , one containing a single circuit of 4 feet of wire 0-1 in thickness , and the other four circuits of 16 feet of wire 0-05 in thickness , then the first was found to evolve the largest quantity of electricity ; but the second , electricity of the highest tension , by the same amount of motion : the accordance of these results with the principles advanced is pointed out .
The author then refers to the use of wire rings of one or many convolutions , and indicates cases in which they may supply valuable means of experimental inquiry .
The relative amount and disposition of the forces of a magnet when it is alone , or associated with other magnets , forms the next point in the present paper ; and a distinction is first taken between ordinary magnets , which are influenced much by other magnets , so that the amount of their external force varies greatly , and those which are very hard , where this influence is reduced to little or nothing .
The power of a given magnet was measured according to the method described in the last series , by a loop once passed over its pole .
A given hard magnet placed in an invariable position , being thus estimated , was found to have a force equivalent to 16 ?
'3 of deflection .
Another magnet , having a power of 25 ? ?
74 , was then placed close to the first in different positions , with like or unlike poles near together , so as to tend sometimes to exalt its power and at other times to depress it ; and the results observed .
In the extremest favourable case , namely , when the two were conjoined as a horseshoe magnet , the force of the first magnet was only raised 2 ?
'45 , which fell directly the dominant magnet was removed ; in the corresponding adverse case the depression was only 1 ? .
A very hard magnet , made by Dr. Scoresby , of 6 ?
'88 power , when under the influence of another of double its power , was not sensibly affected either way .
When under the influence of one of six times its force , it could be affected to the extent of nearly 1 ? .
Ordinary magnets can be affected to the extent of one half of their power or more ; and indeed in extreme cases can be altogether overruled and inverted .
From these results the author concludes , that , with perfect unchangeable magnets , the lines of force ( as before defined ) of different magnets in favourable positions , coalesce : that there is no increase of the total force by this coalescence ; the sections between the associated poles giving the same sum of power as the sections of the lines of either magnet alone : that as the external amount of force of the magnet is not varied , neither is the internal amount at all changed : that the increase of power upon a magnetic needle , or a piece of soft iron , placed between two opposite favourable poles , is caused by concentration of the lines which before were diffused , and not by the addition of the power represented by the lines of force of one pole to that of the lines of force of the other .
There is no more power represented by all the lines of force than before , and a line of force is not in itself more powerful because it coalesces with a line of force of another magnet .
In this and in other respects , the analogy of the magnet with the voltaic pile is perfect .
The paper concludes with some practical remarks upon the delineation of the forms of the lines of force by iron filings , and by a description of the inflection of the lines by hemispheres of hot and cold nickel ; which the author considers as the corresponding case to the action of warm and cold oxygen in the atmosphere , as applied by him in the explication of some of the phenomena of atmospheric magnetism , and especially of the annual and daily variation .

