XLII .
Observations for determining the Length of a Degree of Latitude in the Provinces of Maryland and Pennsylvania , in North America , by Messieurs Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon .
IN this work , the first thing to be considered was , how to continue a right line : and this was done by setting up marks with the assistance of an equal altitude or transit instrument ( for it was contrived so as to serve either purpose at pleasure ) , made by Mr. John Bird , of the same construction with that described by M. Le Monnier , in the preface to the single volume of the French Histoire Celeste .
Read Nov. 24 , 1768 .
The cylindrical ends of the cross axis of the telescope were laid in two angles of the supporters , which rose perpendicularly from a horizontal bar , that was fastened firmly to the upper part of the vertical axis .
The axis of the telescope was set truly horizontal , by a spirit level hung on its cylindrical ends .
The brass frame , which receives the vertical axis , was screwed to a post fixed in the ground , in the direction of the line which was to be continued .
When the vertical wire in the telescope was brought to bisect any mark , it was kept in that direction , by confining firmly , between two pushing screws , a horizontal arm that projected from a collar that surrounded the vertical axis ; and , to prove that a small shock would not alter its position , a small pressure was applied against one of the supporters , which being removed , it was carefully noted , whether the wire returned again to bissect the mark .
At every station ( or mark ) the telescope was turned two or three times after the mark was fixed in the line , to prove that the said mark was truly set .
In general , the distances between the marks did not exceed a mile , nor were they less than half a one .
The telescope magnified about 25 times .
Three or four marks were always left standing , and on a little rising ground they would all be seen in a right line , the vertical wire in the telescope bissecting their centers without sensible error .
The marks made use of in continuing the lines were concentrical circles of black and white , painted upon both sides of a board 14 inches square .
This board moved in mortices made in two posts , which were drove into the ground ; and , when the center of the said mark was brought , by means of signals , into the line , it was fastened by wedges to the posts .
By means of a plummet , a peg was driven into the ground , and a notch cut in it , under the center of the said mark , in order to secure the line .
In the evening , when we left off , a mark was placed before , and two or three left behind us ; and in the morning the instrument was again set up in the same place , to prove that the marks were no~ moved .
The tremour of the air ( caused by the sun 's rays ) was often very great ; and , to avoid any error that might arise from the fluttering of the marks , we intermitted our operations sometimes for five or six hours in a day , and were often obliged to make use of the morning or evening twilight .
In the continuation of the line , a person was left at the mark , behind the instrument , till another mark was set forward , to prove with a plummet that its center was not moved .
The visto cut through the woods , in this work , was about eight or nine yards wide , and , in general , seen about two miles , beautifully terminating to the eye in a point .
The zenith distances of the stars , for determining the celestial arc , answering to the interval of the parallels of the northernmost and southernmost points of the lines , were made with an excellent sector of six foot radius , constructed by Mr. John Bird .
In the course of the work , for dividing the provinces of Maryland and Pennsylvania , the following lines were traced out , that offered themselves for determining the length of a degree of latitude .
In the following fig. let N represent the northernmost point , and A the most southern of the said lines .
Beginning at N , a meridian was traced from N to mil .
cha .
lin. P. = 14 64 8 .
In this line there were some hills , which were measured horizontally with a level , but the plains were measured with a chain .
m. ch .
lin. PC=2 79 27 ; C being in the parallel of latitude with P , which was determined by the sector .
m. ch .
lin. DCa meridian =52 43 , in which are three or four small ascents and descents .
The points BDE and M are in a right line .
cha .
lin. BD= 22 51 , and the angle CDM= 86~ 321/ 7~ nearly .
Hence , ch .
lin. B is south of D=1 36 =D g. m. ch .
lin. The line AB= 81 78 31 , in which is one gentle rising hill , about half a mile over ; all the rest of the line is an entire level or plain .
These measurements , expressed in English statute miles and parts of the same , were made with a chain , established from a brass statute yard , which was proved and corrected , in the course of the work , by another statute chain ( kept only for that purpose ) made from the said brass yard .
They were only designed for dividing the provinces of Maryland and Pensylvania : the same lines were re-measured afterwards with wooden rectangular levels , for the purpose of determining the length of a degree of latitude , as will appear in the sequel of this work .
The point C was placed in the parallel of latitude of P , thus .
Let N ( see TA B. XIII .
fig. 2 .
) represent the north pole of the terrestrial globe ; P and R two places lying in the same parallel of latitude RC P ; PR an arch of a great circle=10~ joining the said points ; and P N , RN two meridians .
PN or the complement of the latitude of P being = 50~ 16~ 42~ , the angle NPR or the azimuth of the great circle PR was found by calculation to be 89~ 55~ 51~ .
The going of the clock being found by equal altitudes of stars , the times were computed when the same or other stars would pass the azimuth of the line P R ; and , at the time computed for any star , the intersection of the cross wires of the transit instrument being brought to cover the star , the telescope was turned down to the horizon , and a land-mark was fixed up at the distance of about half a mile , answering to the intersection of the wires .
In like manner , by other stars , several other marks were fixed up , and the mean of all was taken .
In this direction the line PR was continued ; and though it was at first intended to extend it only to R , to the distance of 10~ of a great circle , it was in fact prolonged somewhat further , to S , PS being = 12,312 miles , or 10~ 45~ of a great circle .
Now PC being = 2,991 miles , or 2~ 37~ of a great circle , the angle NPC is = 89~ 58~ 55~ ; from whence NPS= 89~ 55~ 51~ being subtracted , there remains the angle SPC or aPC= 3~ 4~ , whence a C , or the distance of the parallel PCR at C , south of a , should be 14,1 feet .
But it having been made a rule , in dividing the provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland , to trace out the parallels of latitude by the observations taken with the astronomical sector only , the sector was put up at P and S successively ( see fig. 1 .
) and the zenith distances of the stars Capella ~ Lyrae , and others , were observed at both places ; whence the point S was concluded to be 43 yards or 129 feet =SQ more northerly than P ; and thence it was found by calculation , that the parallel of latitude PQ at the point C should be 451/ 2 feet , =aC distant from the great circle P S , and to the south of the same ; and the point C was placed accordingly , bp laying off 451/ 2 feet =a C , at right angles , to the line Pa from the point a towards the south .
aC found by the sector , being 451/ 2 feet , and found by the azimuth of the line PS being 14,1 feet only~ it follows , that had the position of the point C been determined by the latter method , instead of the former , it would have been placed 31,4 feet more to the northward than it was found by the sector ; and , in consequence , the length of the degree of latitude would have come out 21 feet longer .
But the difference is so small , that it only serves to confirm the exactness of the work , and renders it unnecessary to enter into any consideration , which of the two methods ought to be preferred .
The meridians N P , C D , and A M , were found by celestial observations .
The method of proceeding was as follows : To find the meridian A M , and the angle that the line AB makes with the said meridian .
The equal altitude instrument being set up at the point A , with its vertical axis over the said point , equal altitudes of stars were observed for finding the motion of the clock .
The time was next computed when some northern stars would pass the meridian by the clock , at which instant ( shown by the clock ) the vertical wire in the telescope was brought to bisect the star ; and , the vertical axis of the instrument remaining fixed , the telescope was turned down in the same azimuth to the horizon , and a candle placed opposite to the vertical wire , as a point in the meridian .
And the time of stars passing an azimuth in the direction of the line A B , ~or determining the angle BA M , was found by bringing the vertical wire in the telescope to bisect a candle placed ( about 11/ 4 mile from A ) in the line A B ; the telescope was then elevated to the star , and the time when it passed the said vertical wire taken .
~ ... 17 In the evening , by means of a candle placed behind a board , with a small hole in it over the mark placed the 13th instant , the line was extended to the marks at a mile distance , and there a mark placed , which fell 1/ 4 of an inch east of the mark placed the 14th instant .
From the whole , there are six observations , all within the space of about 3 inches , at the distance of a mile : The mean was taken as a point in the meridian , north of the point A. At this meridian point m. we laid off the line m p. at right angles to the meridian A , m , M , and , by a candle being placed at o , in the right line AB ( about 11/ 4 miles from A ) , another candle was advanced along the line m p , till the vertical wire in the telescope bissected both candles : Under the candle , at the intersection of m p , with A B , viz. at p , a mark was placed in the ground .
The ground between m , and p , being made smooth ( it was level as a floor by nature ) the distance m p , was measured twice , and found to be 5 chains , 14 feet , and 3/ 10 of an inch .
With this same chain the distance mA was measured = 80 chains exactly .
For the Angle BA M , by celestial measure .
h~~ The ARE of the meridian when ~ Ursa major 22 16 53 , 8 by observations made October 12 .
passed an azimuth in the direction of the 22 16 55 , 1 D~ on the ... ... 13 .
line A B. 22 16 54 , 7 D~ on the ... ... 16 .
~~~ Mean ... ... ... ... = 22 16 54 5 = ... ... 334 13 38 ARE of ~ Ursa major ... ... ... ... .
162 16 54 Angle at the Pole = ... ... ... ... .
171 56 44 h~~ AR 's of the meridian when ~ Ursa minor passed 1 58 7 , 8 by observations made October 14 .
the direction of the line A B. 1 58 14 , 2 D~ on the ... ... 15 .
1 58 7 , 1 D~ on the ... ... 16 .
~~~ Mean of the first and last = ... . .
1 58 7 , 5 = ... ... ... .
29 31 52 ARE of ~ Ursa minor ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 222 53 30 Angle of the Pole ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
166 38 22 Now having the distance of the *s from the Pole , the angles at the Pole , and the latitude of the point A , per spherics , we find the star 's azimuth from the north = the angle BA M. And for the said Angle by terrestrial measurement .
As A M : Rad : : p m : ~~~ Tangent Angle pA m. = the Angle BA M. = ... ... ... . .
3 43 40 Angle per ~ Ursa major ... ... ... ... ... . .
3 43 25 D~ per ~ Ursa minor ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3 43 25 Mean ... ... ... ... ... . .
3 43 30 = Angle BA M. In the same manner as the point m , in the meridian from A was found , points in the meridian , north of P and N , were also found ; and having two points given , with them a right line was extended as follows ; first N P. in a line with N e.-At N the equal altitude instrument was set up , and the vertical wire in the telescope was brought to bissect the mark at e ; and there the vertical axis made fast .
The spirit level showing the axis of the telescope to be horizontal .
The vertical axis being well secured , the telescope part is taken off the supporters , and turned to point to the southward ( carefully taking off , and putting it on the supporters so as not to move the axis ) ; then on the farthest rising ground that could be seen , another mark was placed at l , in a right line with the vertical wire .
A mark being left at N , the instrument is taken , and set up three or four feet south of the mark l , and having brought the vertical wire in the telescope in a right line with the marks at l , and N , the vertical axis is then made fast as before , the telescope immediately turned , and a third mark placed to the southward ; and so the operation was continued .
In the same manner the lines P S , C D , A B , and AE were traced out ; and , to prove that by this method a right line may be extended , we shall here give the result of continuing the lines AB and A E. A and D being two points between which a right line was to be drawn .
The point n was known to be nearly in the line A D. At A and n marks were placed , and 3 or 4 feet north of ~ ( which was 1/ 4 of a mile from A ) , the instrument was set up ; then , in the same manner as above , the vertical wire in the telescope was brought in a line with A and n , and the vertical axis made fast ; the telescope was then turned to point to the northward , and a third mark placed , &amp;c. &amp;c. In this manner the line An was continued to B. cha .
lin. Having continued the line to B , it fell 22 51 , west of the point D : we then returned and laid off eastward off-sets from the line A B , at every fifth mile from A , proportional to the distance from A , and at the end of every off-set placed a post , in order to form the line A D. about 101/ 2 miles ... .
= ab .
Off-sets were measured very correct at the 10th mile ... . .
= fc .
and at the 3 points , b , c , d , three about the 9th do ... .
= hd .
marks were placed .
At b the instrument was set up , to see if the 3 marks were placed in a right line ; when it appeared they were not exactly so ; but , on moving the middle one 1/ 2 an inch east , they then made a right line .
In this direction we continued the lines b , c , d , to A , which fell 2 feet 2 inches west of the point A , at q. The distance Aq being so small a quantity ( gradually rising ) in ten miles , we thought it would be superfluous to change the direction , and therefore returned to the point b , and extended the line northward , proceeding in the same manner as before .
Having continued the line to E , it fell 16 feet 9 inches east of the point D. Hence the off-sets from this line to the true line A D , are as shown by the Table B. And as we passed by the offset posts made from A B , we measured the distance of this line AE from the said off-set posts , which were as given in the Table D. Remarks on re-measuring the Lines with two rectangular Levels , or measuring Frames .
The levels used in this work were , each , 20 feet in length , and 4 feet in height .
They were made of pine , an inch thick , and in form of a rectangle ; the breadth of the bottom board was 71/ 2 inches , that of the top =3 inches , of the ends = 41/ 2 inches , and the bottom and top were strengthened with boards firmly fixed to them at right angles .
The joints were secured with plates of iron , and the ends were plated with brass .
The plumb lines used in setting them level , were =3 feet and 2 inches in length , and hung in the middle of the levels , being secured in a tube from the wind , in the manner of carpenters levels ; wherefore we called these by the same name .
When the plumb-line bisected a point at the bottom , the ends were perpendicular .
Where the ground was not horizontal , or there were logs , &amp;c. to pass over , one end of the level was raised by a winch and pulley .
The level being set , a short staff was drove into the ground ( very near and opposite the plumb-line ) , in the top of which moved a thin plate of iron , about 12 inches long ; at the ends of which were points , which were directed to the intersections of lines , drawn on the board that covered the plumb-line .
By bringing the points in a line with one of the said intersections , if the level was by accident moved , it might be discovered , and brought again to its place .
A level being thus marked , the end of the other was brought in contact with it , and marked in the same manner , before the first was moved ; the first was then taken up , and set before the last .
And so the operation was continued .
Mr. Dixon attended one plumb-line and staff , and I the other .
The measure was carried on in a strait line , and in the proper direction , by pointing the levels to the farthest part of the visto that could be seen ; this was readily and accurately done , on account of their lengths .
The levels were frequently compared with the brass standard , of 5 feet , provided for that purpose , and the difference was noted between 8 times the brass standard , and the length of the two levels taken together ; as may be seen in the 3d and 4th columns of the following table .
This difference serves for reducing the measure taken with the levels , to what it would have been if it had been taken with the brass standard itself ; see column 6th .
For facilitating this comparison of the levels with the brass standard , pieces of brass were fixed into the bottom boards of the levels , on each of which was drawn a faint line .
And one tenth of an inch at the end of the brass standard being divided into ten parts or hundredths of an inch , the difference between eight times the brass standard , and the two levels joined together , was with the help of a magnifying glass of a short focus , determined to great accuracy .
Moreover , the brass standard being liable to alter with the changes of heat and cold , a further correction becomes necessary on that account , in B t , which is to a third proportional to the diameter of the earth and the line B R , as the tangent of the latitude of the point B , to the radius .
Whence Rt = 15,8 feet which subtracted from At just ~= 433094,6 leaves ARE = 433078,8 feet NP = 78290,7 To which add CD = 26608 0 as found before Dg= 89~7 The sum is ... . .
= 538067 feet = an arch of meridian intercepted between the parallels of latitude passing through the points N and A , answering to the celestial arch 1~ 28~ 45~ .
Then say , as 1~ 28~ 45~ ; is to 1~ : : so is 538067 feet , to 363763 English feet , which is the length of a degree of latitude in the provinces of Pennsylvania and Maryland .
The latitude of the Northernmost point N , was determined from the zenith distances of several stars , see page 323 = 39~ 56~ 19~ and the latitude of the Southermost point A= 38~ 27~ 34~ .
Therefore the mean latitude expressed in degrees and minutes is = 39~ 12~ .
To reduce this measure of a degree to the measure of the Paris toise , it must be premised , that the measure of the French foot was found upon a very accurate comparison , made by Mr. Graham , of the toise of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris , with the Royal Society 's brass standard , to be to the English foot , as 114 to 107 .
See Philosophical Transact , VO L. XLII .
p. 185 .
Therefore say as 114 : is to 107 : : so is 363763 the measure of the degree in English feet , to 341427 the measure of the degree in French feet , which divided by 6 , the number of feet in a toise , gives the length of the degree = 569041/ 2 Paris toises , in the latitude 39~ 12~ North .
Such is the length of a degree in this latitude , supposing the five feet brass standard made use of in this measure to have been exactly adjusted to the length of the Royal Society 's brass standard .
It was really adjusted by Mr. Bird , by his accurate brass scale of equal parts , which he makes such excellent use of in dividing astronomical instruments , and which is just 1/ 1 00 0th part of an inch shorter than the Royal Society 's brass standard upon a length of three feet .
If one would take notice of so small a difference , the length of a degree just found must be lessened by 1/ 3 600 0th part , or by ten feet , in order to reduce it to the measure of the Royal Society 's standard .
Since I am treating of such niceties , may it be allowed me to add , that the five feet brass standard having been again compared with Mr. Bird 's scale , since its return from North America , appeared both to myself and Mr. Bird to be just 1/ 1 00 0th part of an inch shorter than the scale , upon that side on which the hundredths of an inch are placed at one end , and 2/ 1 00 0ths of an inch shorter than the scale upon the opposite side ?
which diminution of its length is undoubtedly owing to the small wearing or battering which it has met with in the frequent use that was made of it .
But the divided side of the rod having been that which was made use of in measuring the levels , is what is to be regarded in the present case .
If one would allow for the wearing of the rod , one may suppose it to have suffered a gradual diminution ; and then one must take a mean between its first length , which was the same with Mr. Bird 's scale , and its present length , which is 1/ 1 00 0th of an inch shorter ; as one may suppose it a medium to have been 1/ 2 00 0th part of an inch shorter than Mr. Bird 's scale ; on which account the length of the degree should be further diminished by 1/ 12000th part , or 3 feet , which added to 10 feet , the correction required on account of the difference of Mr. Bird 's scale and the Royal Society 's standard , gives 13 feet to be subtracted from the length of the degree calculated above .
The whole correction will perhaps be thought scarce deserving of notice , especially as an error of only 1~ in the celestial measure would produce an error of no less than 67 feet in the length of the degree .
Moreover it is probable that the length of a degree has been already taken 10 or 20 feet too short , by placing the point C too far to the Southward ; which would about balance the small correction in question .
Therefore , all things being considered , the length of the degree may be stated as given above , viz. = 363763 English feet or 569041/ 2 Paris toises .
It must , however , be observed , that the accuracy of this reduction into Paris toises depends upon a supposition that the length of the French toise , which is of iron , was laid off by the gentlemen of the Royal Academy of Sciences , upon the brass rod sent over to them for that purpose by Mr. Graham ( which was afterwards returned to him ) ; in a room where the heat of the air answered to 62 of Fahrenheit 's thermometer , or 15 of Reaumur 's , or nearly so , which is probable enough , but is a point that does not appear to have been ascertained .
For , on account of the difference of expansion of brass and iron ; 2 rods made of those metals , however accurately they may be made of equal lengths at first , will only agree together after~ wards in the same temperature of the air in which they were originally adjusted together .
It is fortunate that the uncertainty in the present case is but small , since 20~ difference of Fahrenheit 's thermometer or 10~ of Reaumur 's produces , according to Mr. Smeaton 's experiments , a difference of the expansions of brass and iron of only 1/ 13500th part , which would cause an error of only 27 English feet or about 4 Paris toises in the length of the degree .
It is however to be wished , that the proportion of lengths of the French and English measures might be again ascertained by another careful experiment , in which the temperature of the air , as shown by the thermometer , might be noted at the time .
[ See the Map of the Country , where the foregoing Observations were made , TA B. XIV ] POSTSCRIP T , BYTHEASTRONOMERROYA L. HAVIN G , some time ago , acquainted M. De la Land , of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris , by letter , of this measure of a degree of latitude in North America , and at the same time expressed my doubts about the certainty of reducing it to French measure , from the proportion of the English to the French foot found by Mr. Graham ; principally because no notice had been taken of the height of the thermometer at Paris , when the length of the French iron toise was laid off upon the brass rod sent thither by Mr. Graham , whence the proportion of the two measures was a~terwards determined by him ; and having also mentioned my opinion of the expediency of making another experiment of the proportion of the two measures , in which every necessary circumstance should be noted ; and that I might probably request the favour of M. De la Land to take the trouble to cause a French toise to be made for me , and to see it exactly adjusted to their standard , and then sent to me ; he has been pleased to lend me two toises , which he says are exactly adjusted to the standard of the toise used by Mess .
De la Condamine and Bouguer in the measure of the degrees of latitude at Peru , in order to their being compared with the English measure .
This comparison has been made by Mr. Bird , with his usual accuracy , while I was present , and also examined the same , since my account of the length of the degree of latitude aforegoing was printed ; and the result is , that the longest of the two toises ( for there is a small difference between them ) , and which has since been marked with the letter A , is equal to 76,738 inches by Mr. Bird 's brass scale of equal parts , and the shortest toise , which is marked B , is=76,735 inches by the same scale ; the height of Fahrenheit 's thermometer in the room being 61 degrees .
The mean of the lengths of the two toises is therefore = 76,7365 inches by Mr. Bird 's scale .
But Mr. Bird 's scale is 1/ 1000th of an inch upon 3 feet shorter than the Royal Society 's brass standard , and consequently 21/ 10000th too short for the same upon 76,7365 inches ; therefore 21/ 10000th of an inch must be subtracted from 76,7365 ; which leaves 76,7344 for the length of the Paris toise in measures of the Royal Society 's brass standard , in the temperature of 61~ of Fahrenheit 's thermometer .
In the temperature of 62~ it will be a little shorter ; or it may be taken = 76,734 inches in measures of the Royal Society 's brass standard .
This is 24/ 1000th or about 1/ 42d of an inch longer than was determined by Mr. Graham 's experiment .
Hence it appears , that I was mistaken in supposing , in p. 325 , that the uncertainty about the true proportion of the English and French measures was but small , since the error in the former determination now appears to have been 1/ 3197th of the whole , or equivalent to what might have been produced by a difference of 84~ of Fahrenheit 's thermometer .
Whence it arose I cannot pretend to say , neither is it very material to enquire ; but the fact is plain , and fully justifies the propriety of repeating the experiment .
I shall now state the length of the degree , measured by Messieurs Mason and Dixon , first in English feet , according to the Royal Society 's standard , and then reduced to the French measure by the proportion just established .
From 363763 English feet , the length of the degree found by the 5 feet brass standard , see p. 324 , I subtract 10 feet for the difference between Mr. Bird 's scale and the Royal Society 's standard , and 3 feet for the wearing of the brass rod ; and there remain 363750 feet , according to the Royal Society 's standard , for the length of the degree .
But to this it seems proper to add 21 feet , in order to correct the position of the point C , determined by the sector , which cannot be so certain as that inferred from the azimuth of the line P S. See p. 279 .
Therefore the true length of the degree , according to the Royal Society 's brass standard , in the temperature of 62~ of Fahrenheit 's thermometer , is 363771 feet , or 68,8960 English statute miles .
To reduce this to the measure of the Paris toise , by the proportion above established , say as 76,734 is to 72 , so is 363771 to 341328 French feet , or 56888 Paris toises , of the standard of that used in the measure of the degrees of the meridian at Peru .
The method made use of by Mr. Bird , in finding the length of the toises by his scale , was as follows , which may serve as a direction for the like purpose on any future occasion .
Two brass pins were drove into a strong deal board 4 inches thick , and longer than the toise ; and two brass cheeks were made very square , and the ends brought upon the pins .
The toise was then put in between the cheeks , one of which was made to slide so as to be easily brought into contact with the end of the toise , and the other end at the same time touching the other cheek , the moveable cheek was screwed fast ; and thus the toise was exactly contained between the cheeks without any shake , and it is evident that the interval between the cheeks was exactly equal to the length of the toise .
In order to measure this interval , the toise being taken away , very fine lines were drawn with a fine point , at the end of each cheek , upon the brass pins which were in the same plain with the board : then the cheeks were removed , and fine points made at the outer extremity of each line , and this distance being taken between the fine points of a beam compass , was transferred to the scale , and thus the length of the toise was found in measures of the scale , which is divided by a vernier to thousandths of an inch .
The toises and brass scale had been left together in the same room , and near one another all the night before , and till the very time of making the comparison of the toises with the scale , in order to be sure that they were all affected with the same degree of heat .
As it may be agreeable to the reader to see the result of the principal measures of degrees of latitude , that have been taken with later instruments and proper accuracy , brought together into one view , the following table is here added .
Length of a Mean Years in which degree in latitude .
Names of the observers .
the degrees were Paris toises .
measured .
57422 66~ 22~ N M. de Maupertuis , &amp;c. ... .
1736 and 1737 57074 49 23 N M. de Maupertuis , &amp;c. and M. Cassini 1739 and 1740 57091 47 40 N P. Liesganig ... ... .
1768 57028 45 0N M. Cassini ... ... . .
1739 and 1740 57069 44 44 N P. Beccaria ... ... . .
1768 56979 43 0N Le Pere Boscowich and Le Maire 1752 56888 39 12 N Mess .
Mason and Dixon ... 1764 to 1768 56750 00 M. Bouguer and M. de la Condamine 1736 to 1743 57037 33 18 S Abbe de La Caille ... .
1752 If this degree be compared with the degree measured at the equator = 56750 toises , in the hypothesis of the earth 's being an oblate spheroid , the ratio of the equatorial to the polar diameter will come out as 494 to 493 .
But , if it be compared with the degree measured in Laplandy , in the latitude 66~ 20~ , = 57419 toises ( I have subtracted 3 toises , because the toise used in Laplandy was 1/ 20th or 1/ 25th of a line less than the toise used in Peru , see M. De la Lande 's Astronomy , Article 2107 ) , the ratio of the diameters will be as 142 to 141 .
The great difference of these results is a fresh proof of what has appeared from the comparison of the measures of the several degrees taken before , either that the figures of the meridians are not accurately elliptical , or that the inequalities of the Earth 's surface have a considerable effect in deflecting the plumbline from its true situation , or both .
I had indeed supposed that any deflections of the plumb-line were not to be feared with respect to this particular measure of a degree , at the end of my Introduction to Messieurs Mason and Dixon 's account of the same , by

