PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Section A.\#151 ; Mathematical and Physical Sciences .
Address of the President , Si % Archibald Geikie , K.C.B. , at the Anniversary Meeting on November 30 , 1912 .
In reviewing the progress of the Royal Society since St. Andrew 's Day last year we have first to take note of the losses which during the interval have been inflicted on our ranks by the hand of death .
Though , perhaps , somewhat fewer in number than the average of recent years , these losses have included some of our most distinguished associates .
Four of our Foreign Members have passed away , and on our Home List we have to regret^ the death of twelve Fellows , among whom are two former Presidents of the Society and Copley Medallists .
While both the biological and the physical sides of science have shared in this bereavement , it is more especially on the former and particularly on the domain of botany that the losses have fallen .
Two of our recently deceased Foreign Members were eminent representatives of botanical science .
Jean B. Edouard Bornet , who was elected into our number only two years ago , died at the end of last year at the ripe age of 83 , having attained the highest distinction by his investigations into the structure and life-history of the Algae .
Eduard Strasburger , one of the most original and versatile botanists of his day , died last May , in his 70th year .
The brilliance of his researches in various departments of botany , more particularly in cytology and plant anatomy , placed him in the front rank of the science , and drew around him , in his laboratory .at Bonn , students from all parts of the world .
In Ferdinand Zirkel mineralogy , geology , and petrography have lost one of their foremost exponents , and his wide circle of friends mourns VOL. lxxxviii.\#151 ; A. B 2 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , the death of a loyal and lovable man .
We had hoped that he would attend the Society 's Anniversary celebration last July .
He wrote , not uncheerfully , that he would gladly have come to London had the state of his health permitted , but he passed away on June 11 .
He was the first man of science on the Continent who realised the far-reaching importance of the work of our late distinguished Fellow , Henry Clifton Sorby , in the application of the microscope to the solution of the many problems presented by the composition and intimate structure of the rocks that form the crust of the earth .
Zirkel 's name will always stand associated with Sorby 's in the forefront of the pioneers who led the way in the transformation or re-creation of the science of petrography .
His own original contributions to this science were marked by their singular grasp and lucidity , while his massive ' Lehrbuch der Petrographie ' remains as a classic monument of his industry , his wide acquaintance with the literature of his subject in every language , and his admirably clear and orderly method of presentation .
He was elected one of our Foreign Members in 1897\#151 ; an honour which he keenly appreciated .
By the death of Jules Henri PoincarE at the comparatively early age of 58 , mathematical science has lost one of its most distinguished cultivators .
He had already come to the front as a discoverer in the domain of pure analysis , when his accession to a Chair of Mathematical Physics turned his attention towards the great concrete realm of natural philosophy .
This branch of knowledge he expounded from the mathematical outlook in a series of memoirs and treatises which established for him a new reputation .
His profound and highly trained mathematical intuition enabled him , in not a few cases , to give a fresh impetus to problems that were pending and for the time at a standstill , such , for example , as the question of the classification of the various forms possible for a self-gravitating rotating planet , on which Lord Kelvin shed much fascinating light without entirely unravelling it .
Poincare 's work on celestial mechanics , culminating in a formal treatise on that subject , is a masterly and illuminating attempt to bring the empirical and tentative solutions , which have proved to be adequate for practical calculations , within the domain of precision which belongs to the modern theory of expansions in series .
In the more complex physical subjects , such as thermodynamics and the theory of electricity , where mathematical reasoning has to be largely of tentative and inductive type , he was a keen student and a candid critic .
His wide studies in these fields afforded ample material for the philosophic workings of a mind interested , like those of many of the greatest mathematical discoverers , in probing the ultimate foundations of knowledge ; and the popular essays in which he gave rein to his criticism 1912 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
3 .and often to his fancy , always in exquisite literary form , brought him a seat in the French Academy and made his name familiar in wide circles which his constructive work could hardly have reached .
In Henri PoincarE we lose a colleague who had long been in intimate and cordial relations with his fellow workers in this country .
His name stands first in the awards of the Sylvester Medal ; he was a Medallist of the Royal Astronomical Society ; and at the time of his decease his nomination was ripening for the chief award of the Royal Society\#151 ; the Copley Medal .
Illness prevented him from attending our Anniversary Celebration last July ; we had heard that his health was improving , but on the last day of our festival news came from Paris of his sudden death .
In obedience to a widely-expressed desire our Secretary , Sir Joseph Larmor , and the Astronomer Royal wrere deputed to represent the Royal Society at his funeral .
By the death of Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker the Royal Society has been deprived of its oldest member , its most distinguished botanist , one of its long line of Presidents , and one to whom it had awarded all the honours which it could bestow .
Born as far back as the year 1817 , this great man began his illustrious career , at the early age of 22 , by accompanying Sir James Clark Ross in the famous expedition of the " Erebus " and " Terror " to the Antarctic regions in 1839 .
The publication of the results of this voyage in his ' Flora Antarctica9 placed Hooker at one bound in the first rank of the systematic botanists of the day .
Thenceforward he continued to enrich science with contributions marked at once by great originality and philosophical insight .
His keen interest in the problems of the geographical distribution of plants , and his ardent enthusiasm as an explorer of the botany of new or little known regions , combined to make him one of the most intrepid and accomplished travellers of his time .
His Antarctic experiences were followed before many years by his memorable journeys in the Himalayas , Tibet , Nepal , and Sikkim , from which he returned with so rich a harvest of important observations .
In later years he visited Palestine and brought back results interesting alike to the botanist and the geologist , explored the Atlas and the uplands of Morocco , and , eventually extending his surveys into the New World , traversed the Rocky Mountains in Colorado and Utah .
Sir Joseph 's association with Charles Darwin and the publication of the ' Origin of Species ' is a memorable incident in the history of modern science .
In recognition of the great value of his early botanical researches Hooker was elected into the Royal Society in 1847 at the age of 30 .
Seven years later further approbation of his work was marked by the award of a B 2 4 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , Royal Medal in 1854 .
His genial character , his judicious temperament , and his business capacity , led to his being frequently chosen to serve on the Society 's Council .
He repeatedly filled the office of Vice-President , and he occupied the Presidential Chair for five years , from 1873 to 1878 .
The crowning honour of the Copley Medal was conferred upon him in 1887 , when he had reached his 70 th year ; and a few years later , when the Darwin Medal had been instituted , it was awarded to him in recognition of his association with the great naturalist whose name it bears .
Universally acknowledged to stand at the head of the botanists of his day , continuing to work at his favourite studies up to the very end of his long and brilliant career , beloved by all who knew him , and full of honours as of years , he passed to his rest on December 10 , 1911 , in the 94th year of his age .
In Lord Lister we have lost one of the most epoch-marking men of our time .
By patient and skilful investigations along a strictly scientific path , his intuitive genius enabled him eventually to transform the art of the surgeon , and thereby to lay mankind under an eternal debt of gratitude for his achievement in the lessening of mortality , the diminution of suffering , and the extension of successful surgical treatment to operations wdiich were previously considered too dangerous to be undertaken .
Few chapters in the history of the advance of experimental science are more fascinating than those which , in Lister 's published papers and in other publications , trace the long and laborious investigation , the difficulties and disappointments which accompanied it , and the opposition or indifference with which it was watched outside , before he emerged in triumph with his purpose accomplished .
At the beginning of his career , his kindly nature was shocked at the appalling mortality in the surgical hospitals with which he was acquainted , and , as he felt sure that some remedy might be found , he set himself deliberately to seek for it .
Convinced of the truth of Pasteur 's researches in regard to the origin of putrefactive changes , he conceived that if he could exclude or destroy the micro-organisms everywhere present surgical wounds would probably heal , and the pain and fatal results accompanying them would be diminished or even prevented .
Step by step , as his knowledge of this obscure subject widened , his methods were altered , improved , and simplified , until their undoubted success compelled the attention of the medical world .
His antiseptic treatment was , ere long , adopted in hospital after hospital with ever-increasing appreciation , until it is now in universal use all over the world .
Lister was himself a skilful surgeon , and as a man of science he made important contributions to surgery and medicine .
In particular , his suggestive work in regard to bacteria was largely instrumental in founding 1912 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
5 the important modern science of bacteriology. .
But , undoubtedly , the achievement which will hand his name down to the remotest posterity has been the creation of aseptic surgery .
The remarkable company of eminent and representative men who from all parts of the civilised world gathered round his bier in Westminster Abbey was a visible expression of the gratitude of all countries for his priceless services .
The value of Lord Lister 's early contributions to science was recognised by the Eoyal Society , which elected him a Fellow in 1860 , when he was 33 years of age .
After he left the professorship which he held in the University of Edinburgh and had settled in London , he served frequently on the Council of the Society .
He was Foreign Secretary from 1893 to 1895 , and he filled the Presidential Chair from 1895 to 1900 .
He received a Royal Medal in 1880 , and was awarded the Copley Medal in 1902 .
His kindliness and courtesy , his simplicity and modesty , endeared him to a wide circle of friends who warmly cherish his memory .
He died at Walmer on February 10 last , in the 85th year of his age .
There was a widespread desire that his remains should be laid in Westminster Abbey , but by his own direction he was buried beside his wife in the West Hampstead Cemetery .
From among the chemists on our List of Fellows we have lost during the past year Dr. Edward Divers and Dr. Humphrey Owen Jones .
Dr. Divers spent his earlier years in this country ; but having been induced in 1873 to accept the offer of a Professorship of Chemistry from the Government of Japan , he remained on active service in that country for twenty-six years .
On his return to England his long experience found useful employment in the councils of learned societies and other institutions .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1885 .
He died in April last , in his 75th year .
By the sudden and tragic death of Dr. Jones and his young bride in the Alps last summer , science has been deprived of one who , though only 34 years of age , had already distinguished himself as an original observer and an excellent teacher , and who would doubtless soon have risen to eminence among the chemists of his day .
His merits were recognised when he was elected into the Royal Society this year .
We lament that a career so full of promise should have been so suddenly cut short by an accident met with in a recreation in which he was one of the most noted leaders .
The representation of Engineering in our Fellowship has been diminished since our last Anniversary by the death of Henry Taylor Bovey .
Born in 1850 , he became 12th Wrangler at Cambridge in 1873 , and after engaging in various engineering works accepted in 1877 the Chair of Engineering at McGill University , Montreal .
His skill and energy transformed the teaching of applied science in that institution and made the College the most important Anniversary Address by Sir .
A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , engineering school on the American continent .
In 1908 he was induced to return to England and to accept the rectorship of the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London .
Owing to failing health , however , he resigned that appointment at the end of the following year .
He died on February 2 last .
The late Major-General Edward Robert Festing connected the Royal Society with the Royal Engineers .
In association with Sir William Abney he communicated papers to the Society on a variety of physical subjects , especially on photometry .
He was elected a Fellow in 1886 .
For many years Admiral Sir John Dalrymple Hay , Bart. , wras one of the most regular attendants at the meetings of the Society .
He was born in 1821 , entered the Navy at the age of 13 , and had a varied and interesting career until he retired from active service afloat in 1859 .
He had early shown an interest in some branches of science , particularly in meteorology , and after he retired from the sea he had opportunities of advocating the application of science to the needs of the Navy .
In 186 L he was appointed Chairman of the Iron-plate Committee that was formed for the purpose of carrying on experiments on the application of armour to the sides of vessels of war .
In 1864 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
His reminiscences of his experience in the Navy and in official life , his exceptional descriptive faculty , his dignified presence and old-time courtesy and his keen sense of humour made him a special favourite in society .
He passed away on January 28 last , in the 91st year of his age .
In Osborne Reynolds we have lost one of our leading physicists and scientific engineers .
His original contributions to the kinetic theory of gases and the molecular theory of viscosity , those on the flow of liquids in channels , and on the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat , have given him an assured place in the history of physical science .
His labours as a University Professor have brilliantly illustrated the intimate connexion which exists between physical experiment and practical engineering progress , and have endeared him to the wide circle of pupils who studied under him .
He was elected one of our Fellows in 1877 and was awarded a Royal Medal in 1888 .
Dr. Ramsay Heatley Traquair , who has just died at Edinburgh in his 72nd year , has long held a foremost place in the ranks of vertebrate palaeontologists .
His medical training , and his early devotion to the study of the anatomy of fishes , gave him a grasp of the ichthyology of past time such as few of his contemporaries could equal .
By concentrating his attention on the fossil fishes of the Old Red Sandstone and the Carboniferous system , he was enabled to throw much new light on the relations of these 1912 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
organisms to each other , while at the same time he showed how their specific forms could be utilised for the determination of problems in stratigraphy .
He joined the Royal Society in 1881 , and in 1907 received one of our Royal Medals .
Dr. John William Mallet , who was elected into the Society in 1877 , was the son of Robert Mallet , one of the pioneers of modern seismology .
He graduated in medicine , but specially interested himself in chemical studies .
Settling in the United States , he became a Fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia , and was Professor of Chemistry in the University of Virginia .
But he retained his connection with this country , and in 1906 was one of the representatives of the Royal Society at the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin at Philadelphia .
Robert Holford Bosanquet was for some time a Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
His investigations in the theory of sound , especially in relation to music , attracted attention 20 years ago .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1890 .
The Report of the Council , now in the hands of the Fellows , presents a brief summary of the operations of the Society during the past year .
Among these , the most prominent incident has been the celebration of the 250th Anniversary of the foundation of the Society .
The programme of proceedings , which had been drawn up after much careful deliberation , was carried out in detail as arranged , and with a success on which , I think , the Society may well be congratulated .
Our invitation was responded to by nearly all the Universities and the chief learned Societies , both in the Old and in the New World .
These different institutions were , in almost all cases , personally represented by delegates , though a few forwarded by post their addresses of felicitation .
Never before in our history did so numerous a company of representatives of learning and science assemble under our roof .
No more striking evidence could have been given of the sympathy which draws together the students of natural knowledge , and unites them into a worldwide brotherhood , inspired by one common spirit of devotion to the study of nature and the search after truth .
Nor could a more gratifying tribute have been offered to the Royal Society , in recognition of the part which it has played in the development of science during its career of two and a half centuries , than the addresses which were presented to us in our Library on July 16 last .
These documents form a united and impressive testimonial which the Society will preserve with pride through the years to come .
Since the Delegates returned to their homes , I have received many letters from them expressive of their great appreciation of the pleasure 8 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , which they had received , and their warm congratulations on the success of our Celebration .
As a permanent memorial of this interesting event in the history of the Society , the President and Council determined last year to begin the preparation of a volume containing a facsimile reproduction of the signatures in the first Journal-book and in the Charter-book from the year 1660 down to the present time .
As a series of the autographs of the most eminent men of science and learning who have lived during the last 250 years , this collection has probably no rival in the world .
The volume , which has been admirably produced at the Oxford University Press , was completed in good time before the advent of the Anniversary celebration .
A copy was at once presented to the Patron of the Society , His Majesty the King , who was pleased to express his appreciation of this interesting memorial .
A volume embracing nearly 100 folio plates and a complete index to the signatures is necessarily costly .
But in order that it may come into the possession of those who are most directly interested in its contents , the Council has ordered that each Fellow of the Society may obtain a copy at one-third of the published price .
Another volume has concomitantly been prepared and published , in the form of a newT , considerably expanded , and thoroughly revised edition of the ' Record of the Royal Society/ Containing a brief history of the Society , with an account of its Charters , Statutes , and organisation , lists of its Fellows and Officers from the beginning , its Medallists and Lecturers , its portraits , relics , and other property , the book forms a useful compendium of information regarding the Society .
It is embellished with twenty plates showing views of the successive apartments occupied by the Society since its foundation , and including also portraits of former Presidents and others .
This volume is also obtainable by the Fellows at one-third of the published price .
MEDALLISTS , 1912 .
The Copley Medal .
The Copley Medal is this year assigned to Prof. Felix Klein , of Gottingen , for his researches in mathematics .
Prof. Klein is , perhaps , most widely known in this country for his investigations in geometry , which attached themselves closely to the work of Cayley and other British mathematicians .
This work has expanded and systematised our conceptions of non-Euclidean geometry , and indeed the philosophy of geometry in general .
1912 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
9 Of at least equal importance have been his researches in the theory of functions .
In his earlier papers he dealt mainly with the transformation of elliptic functions and the related theory of modular functions .
The key to the most of what followed lies in the memoir , ' Never Beitrage sir Riemann-ischen Funetionentheorie , ' published in 1882 .
In this memoir , quite independently of Poincare , and from an entirely different point of view , Klein lays the foundations of the theory of automorphic functions .
He here considers for the first time the relations between an infinite discontinuous group of linear substitutions and the functions which are unchanged by it .
This brilliant and fertile idea underlies the greater part of his work , and with its developments must be regarded as among the most valuable contributions to function-theory in recent years .
In a series of masterly works , written partly alone and partly in collaboration with Prof. Fricke , he has extended this theory in detail , first for the case of algebraic functions , then for the modular functions , and finally for general automorphic functions .
No estimate of the debt that mathematical science owes to Prof. Klein would be satisfactory without some reference to his work as a teacher .
He has created a school of young mathematicians at Gottingen whose work is a continuation of his own .
His published lecture-courses on a variety of subjects are works of very great originality in method ; and indeed , some of them\#151 ; for instance , the course on the theory of numbers\#151 ; abound invaluable original investigations .
The Rumford Medal .
This year the Rumford Medal has been awarded to Dr. Heike Kamerlingh Onnes , of Leyden , in recognition of the great value of his contributions to low-temperature research , among which his liquefaction of helium is the most noted .
He has founded at Leyden the most thoroughly equipped laboratory in the world for investigations in low temperatures .
In that institution a series of researches has been carried out regarding the effects of such great cold as can be obtained by the use of liquid hydrogen and even helium on the properties of substances , such as their magnetic relations and the electrical resistance of pure metals and alloys , the results of which are most striking and important for future progress .
Prof. Onnes has also made valuable investigations on the nature of the transition between the solid and fluid states of matter .
10 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , The Royal Medals .
The awards of the two Royal Medals annually given by our Patron the King have received His Majesty 's approval .
One of these medals has been assigned to our colleague , Prof. William Mitchinson Hicks , as a mark of the Society 's appreciation of the value of his contributions to physical science .
Among his researches may be specially mentioned those on hydrodynamics , and particularly on vortex motion , published in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' As a preparation for this work , he had previously made a very complete study and added much to our knowledge of a class of harmonic functions called by him " toroidal functions .
" He has also investigated , with a view to ultimate physical theories , the forces which exist between spheres immersed in an incompressible fluid medium when the volumes of the spheres are subject to periodical alterations .
Of late years he has devoted much attention to the numerical relations which exist between the frequencies of lines belonging to the same spectral series , and has published expressions which give the relations between these frequencies with great accuracy .
These investigations , which have involved much labour , have materially increased our knowledge of the spectra of groups of elements , and may probably prove of fundamental importance in relation to theories of the production of spectra in general .
The other Royal Medal has been adjudged to Prof. Grafton Elliot Smith , in recognition of the value of his biological investigations , more especially in regard to the morphology of the brain as developed in amphibians , reptiles , birds , monotremata , marsupials , and nearly every group of placental mammals .
His researches have established the natural subdivisions of the cerebral hemispheres , and have shown that the development of the neopallium , in the co-ordination of sensory impulses , is the fundamental condition in the survival of mammals .
His numerous papers are marked by a thorough grasp of the physiological and histological aspects of the subject and by great clearness of exposition .
Prof. Elliot Smith 's work among the ancient cemeteries of Nubia may also be referred to .
Already it has brought to light many interesting anatomical features in the buried remains of the former population of the Nile Valley , and , doubtless , much additional information will be obtained by him from the large mass of material which he has gathered together and brought to this country for deliberate study .
1912 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
The Davy Medal .
The Davy Medal has been assigned to Prof. Otto Wallach for his researches in organic chemistry , particularly in regard to the essential oils .
Our present knowledge of these complex vegetable products is largely the result of the numerous analytical investigations which he has carried out in the laboratories of Gottingen .
He has made many important discoveries , more especially in connection with the cyclo-olefines and their derivatives , and his researches on these compounds have played a notable part in the general development of organic chemistry .
The Darwin Medal .
The Darwin Medal is this year awarded to one of the sons of the illustrious man in whose honour this Medal was founded twenty-two years ago .
Mr. Francis Darwin by his researches has done much to emphasise the importance of plant movements in relation to environment , and has shown how strong is the evidence for the view that these various movements are the expression of the plant 's own individuality in response to external stimuli , and that they have been developed or acquired by the plant as an adaptation to environment in the struggle for life .
It is pleasant to remember that these interesting researches have been a continuation of the work which he carried on , conjointly with his father , in the long series of observations and experiments which are recorded in that important treatise , ' The Power of Movement in Plants .
' Mr. Francis Darwin by his devotion to the Department of Vegetable Physiology at Cambridge has not only advanced botanical science by his own researches there , but through the stimulus of his enthusiasm has gathered round him a school of research which has attained a world-wide celebrity .
To him , too , science is indebted for the admirable ' Life and Letters of Charles Darwin , ' a work which by the vivid presentation of the life and character and work of one of the greatest naturalists the world has ever seen , by its modest self-effacement of the author , and by its literary charm , has unquestionably had a quickening influence on the advance of science in our time .
Anniversary Address by Sir .
A. Geikie .
The Buchanan Medal .
This medal is awarded every five years in recognition of distinguished services to hygienic science or practice in the direction either of original research or of professional , administrative , or constructive work , without limit of nationality or sex .
It has this year been adjudged to Colonel William Crawford Gorgas , for his remarkable services under the American Government , in combating the terrible scourge of yellow fever .
As chief Sanitary Officer at Havana , Cuba , he there for the first time applied those sanitary methods by which the yellow fever was almost entirely eradicated from the place .
This marked success led to his being entrusted in 1904 with a similar but greater task in the Panama Canal zone , where the same disease was rampant , and where he is still engaged .
His success in that region has been not less conspicuous .
Its attainment has required not only a complete knowledge of sanitary organisation in the Tropics , but also those administrative qualities which are necessary to ensure its practical enforcement .
In the battle against diseases carried by insects , he led the way in the practical application of the results of scientific discovery , employing still untried weapons , and showing great fertility of resource and much needful determination in the face of many difficulties .
He has earned the gratitude of mankind in having perfected a new method of saving human life on a large scale .
The Hughes Medal .
This medal has been adjudged to William Duddell , P.R.S. , in recognition of the value of his researches in technical electricity and , in particular , his investigations with the oscillograph on telephonic sounds , his work on radiotelegraphy with the thermo-galvanometer , his development of the vibration galvanometer , and his investigations on the production of currents of very high frequency by the electric arc and by mechanical means .

