]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
ARSON , Karl , and , Alice.\mdash ; On the ti .
Field a Theoretical Hertzian lator .
Phil. Trans. , vol , 193 , 1899 , pp. LEE , Alice , and PEAIiSON , Kart .
On the Viblations in the Field Theoreticftl tzian Oscillator .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , lS99 , pp. S. -magnetic Field ound H tzian PEARSON , Karl , and LBE , Alice .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 19 ?
, 189 } ) .
-cillator , Hertzian , theory of .
PEABSON , Karl : and LEIC , Alice .
Phil. Trans , , vol. 193 lS99 , } ) ) Diagrams with Theoretical Osc.illatol .
PEARSON , Karl , and LEE , Alice .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. ) [ 159 ] .
On the Vibrations in the Fidd round Theoretical Hertzian Oscillator .
KARL PEARSON , F. R. S. , and ALICE LEE , B.A. , B. Sc. , University College , London .
Received January 2 , \mdash ; Read January 19 , \mdash ; Revised May 14 , 1899 .
[ PLATES 1-7 .
] CONTENTS .
SECTION .
PAGE .
1 .
Introductory . . . . .
: . . .
159 2 .
General theory of a damped oscillator suddenly started . . . . .
160 3 .
Determination of the -function and method of calculating the wave-diagrams . . .
161 4 .
Electric and magnetic forces . . . . .
164 5 .
Wave-speed of magnetic force . . . . .
167 6 .
Discussion of method of resolving electric force . . . . . .
169 7 .
Wave-speed of component electric force and of total radial electrio force . . . .
171 8 .
Wave-speed of componenb transverse electric force and of total force perpendicular to oscillator axis . . . . .
172 9 .
Remarks on electric force in equatorial plane . . . . .
178 10 .
Wave-speed of integral force of induction . . . . .
11 .
Graphic method of determining phase . . . . . .
179 12 .
Wave-speed of total verse electric force and of electric force in equatorial plane 179 13 .
Explanation of diagram of phases for the waves in Sections 7 , 8 , 10 and 12 . . .
183 14 .
Conclusions . . . . .
187 ( 1 .
) Although HERTZ realised very fully*that his oscillator did not give " " perfectly regular and long continued sine-oscillations , \ldquo ; and although BJERKNES determined so long ago as 1891 the general form of the damping , it does not appear that HERTZ'S original investigation of the nature of the vibrations in the field round one of his oscillators has hitherto been modified .
Indeed , his diagrams of the wave motion have been copied into more than one text-book , have usually been taken to represent what actually goes on in the surrounding field .
Actually not only the diagrams , but * On very rapid Electric Oscillations ' Wied .
Annal vol. 31 , , ' Electric Waves , ' p. 49 .
'Wied .
Annal vol. 44 , pp. 74 , 513-526 .
The damping of the oscillation in or five periods is very marked .
For example , ANDREW GRAY , ' Absolute Measurements in Electricity and Magnetism , ' vol. 2 , p. 734 .
3 , 11.99 a good deal of HERTZ'S original theory of interference requires modification , if we are to obtain quantitative accordance between theory and experiment .
The object of the present paper is to give a fuller theory of the nature of the vibrations in the field round a typical Hertzian oscillator .
( 2 .
) Assuming that BJERKNES ' experiments have shown that the Hertzian oscillator vibrates very nearly according to the type : , we have to find a solution for the equations for the disturbance in the surrounding field on this basis .
Using HERTZ'S notation*for the case of symmetry about the axis of , then if and be the components of electric force parallel and perpendicular to this axis at a point whose coordinates are and , and the component of magnetic force perpendicular to the meridian plane through the same point , we have to find a solution of . . . .
( i ) , suitable to the initial and boundary conditions .
If this be done , , , ( ii ) , ( iii ) .
The component of magnetic force parallel to is zero .
Now if we suppose that at some distance from its centre the oscillator may be looked upon as a " " double point\ldquo ; or as producing an oscillation , which has a very small range , and with poles having electricity at the maximum , then we may write for .
Assume , and we find .
Writing , and , we have * See ' Electric Waves , ' English edition , p. 140 , INTHE -- ROUND A THEO OSCILLATOR .
Hence , where and are constants and Take.only .
an outgoing wave and write , hence ( t\mdash ; are ) ( iv ) where - .
must be , or is clearly the wave velocity .
Take , then ( ) .
For typical oscillators seems to vary from to 5 , hence to or we see that if be small as compared with , then Now , if X , be the three components of electric force , we easily find or they are the three components of a ' ' potential function\ldquo ; .
Take , and we see that V is the potential* due to a " " double point\ldquo ; of moment oscillating between and \mdash ; ; thus the maximum charges rapidly diminish with the time .
In fact , we have a system entirely analogous with that of HERTZ , except for this rapid diminution of the maximum charges with the time .
It is in this running down of the maximum charges that the damping effect of the oscillator consists .
( 3 .
) We shall now proceed to find the forces .
In the first place let us find the value of , which , following HERTZ , we will term Q. Then the components of electric and magnetic force all be found by simple differentiation of , i. e. , , and ( vi ) .
* To use HERTZ'S language , see ' Electric Waves , ' p. 142 , and compare , vol. 1 , S129 .
V0L .
We have Now put ; then if , we have ( vii ) .
In our notation HERTZ finds* .
( viii ) .
lt is clear that the damped wave train , such as actually occurs with the Hertzian oscillator , makes very considerable changes in the form of Q. Thus : As we might expect the damping factor is introduced , or rather a damping factor where is the time at which the disturbance reaches a distance from the centre of the oscillator .
Clearly the factor will sensibly modify the form of the lines of electric force obtained by tracing the curves constant .
The first term in the curled brackets is also sensibly modified both as to amplitude and phase .
The reader must not imagine that the difference between the formulae ( vii ) and ( viii ) marks as soon as the vibrations are set up a great difference in the lines of electric force .
All we contend for is that it marks a sensible difference in the shape after a few periods , and that this difference increases with the length of time and the distance of the part of tha field considered from the oscillator .
In fact loops which would remain at the end of each period finite according to formula ( viii ) , have to shrivel up into points and disappear from the field altogether .
Suppose , than , and we find X , while .
Hence , the amplitude of the cosine term is increased by about 2 .er thousand , and the phase by to It is the factor , however , which produces most sensible change .
For , if be the wave length .
Now , if be metres , which was about its value for one of HERTZ'S oscillators * It seems better to write than ( ar-t ) with HERTZ , because are must be less than , or , Electnc Waves , ' p. 142 .
HERTZ'S is ( wave-length ) .
Considerable confusion has arisen from this in various translations of his papers .
He assumes .
metres , i.e. , a wave-length IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
Electric Waves , , we should have at 12 metres distance from the oscillator , a factor which can very considerably modify as a function of , if be not equal to i.e. , il the disturbance have not just reached that point of the field .
Expressing in terms of the wave-length , and the period , we have , where Thus we may write , where is a known function .
The next stage was to plot for a reasonable value of , the curves constant for a series of values of at different intervals of time .
In order to show the decadence of the strength of the field in the neighbourhood of the oscillator , was given the 56 successive values ; or the field-changes were traced for seven complete oscillations , at intervals of oscillation .
This was done for a sphere of -lengths round the oscillator , or taking the to be metres , for a sphere of 12 metres radius round the centre of the oscillator .
* Values of were chosen so as to give eight systems of curves with relative intensities 50 , 30 , 10 , 1 , \mdash ; 1 , \mdash ; 10 , \mdash ; 30 , \mdash ; 50 .
In the accompanying diagrams ( Plates 1-7 ) the fine contmuous give intensity , the fine dotted curves the , the heavy continuous curves , and the heavy dotted curves .
The outermost circle in each case is the bounda1y of the field explored ; the innermost circle corresponds to the boundary of the area round the oscillator , within which it would hardly be legitimate to consider the oscillator a double electric point .
The remainin circles are those for which , and which separate positive from negative portions of the field .
In the spaces between these circles the field must be considered to have alternative positive and negative intensity .
It must of course be borne in mind that the curves only give a meridian section of the surfaces of equal intensity .
The work of calculating , plotting , and drawing such a long series of curves was * HERTZ'S diagrams only extend for three-quarters of a wave-length round the oscillator .
Our diagrams suffice in extent to show the detachment of the loops preparatory to their outward propagation .
The actual selection of fine and heavy , continuous and dotted curves to represent the several intensities , is due to the engraver on the photographs of the original coloured diagrams .
For special aid in the preparation of the diagrams and in reproduction by photography , we have to heartily thank .
E. WRENN and A. WHEELER respectively .
magnetic field , the work seemed worth undertaking .
Some remarks may be made on .
the methods by which the arithmetic was carried out .
The equation to the curve being written , where and was given the values , and the limiting values of ascertained , for which was real .
was then given a series of values between limits altering by small differences , and the values of calculated ; frequent values of were taken at portions of the curve where it was found to be turning , and thus a close approximation found to its form .
The original diagrams on a scale of a metre to the inch were formed by joining up the calculated points and painting in the curves so formed .
These were afterwards reduced by photography .
* The dying out of a part of the field of a particular strength is well illustrated in the diagrams .
Take the dying out of strengths greater than represented by the fine continuous line .
In fig. 25 we see the last sensible loop of the field containing greater strengths than this passing away .
Up to fig. 33 we can still trace this portion of the field as a dot .
But in fig. 29 the oscilIator has ceased to give fresh centres even of this strength , and in fig. 34 they have passed away entirely .
Figs. 30 to 41 give the shrinking up and final disappearance of parts of the field with strength greater than .
Figs. 53 to 56 show the outward passage of the last loop of the field with a strength greater than , and another ten diagrams would have sufficed to show no trace of strengths greater than ( 4 .
) We will now proceed to find the electric and magnetic forces from ( vi ) .
First , the electric force , , in direction of the axis of the oscillator : ( x ) .
Second , the electric force , , perpendicular to the axis of the oscillator : * The diagrams have lost very considerably in the process of photography and engraving .
It possibly be that some of the finer loops and dota will appear not at all , or at least uncloarly , after blocks have been somewhat used .
We hope shortly to have kinematograph..films of origina } diagrams available .
IN- IHE FIELD ROUND THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
165 .
Now let and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and . . . . .
( xii ) , ( xiii ) .
Then and are constant over .
any spherical surface about the centre of the oscillator at any time , and . . . . .
( xiv ) .
The electric force can thus be considered as compounded of a force parallel to the axis of the oscillator , and depending only on the distance of the point of the field from its centre , and of a force , acting in the meridian plane perpendicular to the central distance of any point and towards the oscillator axis .
Clearly along the axis and in the equatorial plane , or the force is parallel to the axis , a result already deduced by HERTZ for a simple harmonic oscillation .
* At very great distances we may neglect inverse squares and cubes of , as compared with first powers , and accordingly vanishes as compared with .
In other words the electric force tends at great distances to become perpendicular to the radius or the to be purely transverse .
At a considerable distance ffom the origin we may take : 'Electric Waves , ' pp. 142-3 166 PROFESSOR K. PEARSON AND MISS A. LEE ON THE VIfflAttONS ( xv ) .
The values in our notation obtained by HERTZ are : , Now it must be remembered that and and are all zero until is or .
Hence HERTZ'S formulae imply that at a considerable distance ffom the origin the intensity field increases gradually from zero .
The formulae ( xv ) appear , however , to show that the intensity at a distant point of the field rises abruptly from zero to the definite value : as the wave reaches it .
The explanation of this is , however , that , while we make the oscillator start from zero charge , yet the initiation is sudden in so far as it requires definite initial values of the electric and magnetic forces .
There is an impulsive action at the wave bont due to the sudden starting of the oscillator , and the above expression only represents the electric force at a considerable distance ffom the oscillator , when the impulsive action of the wave front has just passed the point under consideration .
Turning now to the magnetic force perpendicular to the meridian plane , we have by ( vi ) : or , , ( xvi ) , THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
where is a function of and only , and is constant at any time for a spherical round the centre of the oscillator .
Clearly does not , as in HERTZ'S formula , appear to gradually rise from a zero value , but suddenly springs to the value , or , at a considerable distance from the oscillator .
* This must again be interpreted as representing the value of the magnetic force immediately after the impulsive action at the wave front has passed by .
( 5 .
) We shall now consider what modifications are made in the velocity of transmission owing to the damping of the wave train .
HERTZ , GRAY , and others have considered this problem , but have confined their attention to the equatorial plane or the axis , and to a simple harmonic train .
There appears to be no real simplicity gained by these limitations .
Dealing first with magnetic force in , we may write the value of above \mdash ; .
( xvii ) where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence \mdash ; where we have , Hence ( xviii ) .
*The apparent equality of the initial electric and magnetic forces arises from the units selected by HERTZ , which have been here adopted for purposes of comparison between the two theories .
\amp ; e 'Electric Waves , ' pp. 138-9 .
From these we deduce , From ( xix ) or , To find the wave-speed , we have from ( xvii ) to find from \mdash ; constant , i. e. , Let as before , and .
Then where .
Hence .
( xxi ) .
Now this result is quite independent of the direction of propagation , or the wave moves outwards with the same velocity at the same distance in directions .
For .
This is the value giveri by GRAY for propagation in the equatorial plane , it is clearly independent of direction .
At considerable distances is very small , and therefore .
Thus is the limit of wave velocity as we recede from the source of disturbance .
Now a remarkable result flows from ( xxi ) , which could not in any way be predicted from HERTZ'S theory , neglecting the damping .
HERTZ tells us that the velocity of propagation at the source is infinite , and GRAY draws the same conclusion , but ) shows us that near the source the velocity of propagation , although very great , .
is * Absolute Messurements , ' vol. 2 , p. 781 IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
negative .
This holds until cosec , and then become indefinitely great positively .
Thus , from the surface of the sphere the waves move inwards and outwards with indefinitely great velocities .
When , this sphere closes in on the oscillator , and it will generally be well within the sphere round the oscillator within which it is not legitimate to apply the theory .
But for a very rapidly damped wave train and a very considerable wave length , it is possible that its existence could be physically detected .
We may write ( xxi ) . . . . .
( xxii ) .
Hellae is symmetrical about , and we have the following curve for plotted to : N.B.\mdash ; Tbis figure is purely diagrammatic .
Oa is not really comparable with 01 , and is possibly 20,000 units of the vertical scale .
The diagram illustrates the rapidity with which the velocity of the magnetic disturbance approximates to , and shows the minimum negative velocity occurring at a distance from the centre of the oscillator .
( 6 .
) Turning now to the wave-speed for the electric force , we see from the remarks on ( xiv ) that we can treat the wave as made up of two components to and .
This is really a kinematic resolution convenient for analysis of wave phenomena .
We might have resolved the displacement in other ways , possibly with equal advantage .
But it must not be supposed that a purely kinematical resolution into wave components can have no physical significance .
It is true that neither nor could exist by themselves , but this is practically true of all the wave resolutions the mathematical physicist habitually deals with .
He is accustomed to consider in electro-magnetism waves of electric and magnetic force , neither have an independent existence ; of radial and transverse electric displacement , one is impossible without the other .
In the theory of the refraction and reflection of waves at the interface of elastic media , and its applications to the undulatory theory of light , we do not hesitate to separate the waves of transverse from ]ongitudinal displacement and to speak of the former as having an independent existence , yet we are really separating kinematically what can only coexist .
Lastly , consider , perhaps , the most familiar case , that of the longitudinal vibrations of rods ; here the physicists carry the kinematic resolution so far that they often forget to mention the coexistence of the vibrations perpendicular to the axis of the rod , without which the longitudinal vibrations could not exist at all .
The fact is that a purely kinematic resolution is often of first-class physical importance , for one or other of its factors admits of ready physical determination .
Thus , in our present case , is the sole component of electric force in the axis of the oscillator , and determined there it is determined for all points of space at the same distance from the centre .
Again , is the component of electric force in the equatorial plane , and with determinations there , , will be known at all points of space .
But it was precisely in the direction of the axis and in the equatorial plane that HERTZ made his chief experiments .
Thus there seems considerable advantage in reducing the analysis of the electric force to two functions , both independent of the latitudes and varying only with the distance from the oscillator , which can be directly tested in the localities HERTZ found best suited to experimental enquiries .
and are both independent of the latitude , and give wave speeds and having the same values for all points at the same distances from the centre of the oscillator .
The reader will notice that in taking and as our constituents we have resolved the electric force into two components , one along the axis and one transverse to the ray , and these components will not generally be at right angles .
Neither represent the total force in the given direction ; they are transverse and axial components and not total transverse and total axial electric forces .
The total force perpendicular to axis ; The total axial electric force ; The total transverse electric force .
; and The total radial electric force It be observed that the amplitude of the axial component does uot change IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
with , but that the amplitude of both the total transverse and the total electric radial forces does .
So far as the theory of wave transmission goes , the wave-speed of the total radial force is really discussed under the treatment of , our axial component , in Art .
7 .
Similarly , the total transverse electric force has a wave-speed determined from and , therefore , it will be found fully discussed under our treatment of the function , the equatorial wave in Art .
12 .
In addition , our analysis enables us to deal separately with that portion of the total transverse force , or the transverse component in our case , which alone is propagated to considerable distances , and which gives at all distances the total torce perpendicular to the axis .
( 7 .
) Let us deal first with the case of the component force parallel to the axis or the factor of the total radial electric force .
We may write ( xxiii ) , where .
Thus , and , . . . .
( xxiv ) .
Hence and differentiating with regard to the time to find we have .
Thus he wave is sin \mdash ; ( xxv ) , and its velocity is given by .
( xxvi ) .
We see at once that , or the magnetic wave and the wave of component electric force parallel to the axis are propagated everywhere with the same velocity at the sa distance from the axis .
At the same time the amplitude of this electric wave varies mversely as the square of the distance from the centre of the oscillator for considerable distances , while the amplitude of the magnetic wave varies under the same conditions inversely as the distance .
Thus the effect of the former is rapidly insensible as compared with the latter .
Meanwhile it is important to observe how this wave keeps pace with the magnetic wave .
( 8 .
) We may now consider , which gives the transverse electric component and the total electric force perpendicular to the axis , i.e. , ( xxvii ) , where .
Hence ( xxviii ) , and From the last equation we deduce , if - where Hence This again is an important physical signfficance for , and enables it to be readily differentiated physically from IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
We must now differentiate , to get the velocity , and we find , or , Substituting for , we have , after reductions : Now let ( xxix ) .
Then and Let .
Then ( xxx ) .
This gives the velocity at each distance from the origin of the transverse electric wave .
Its amplitude is given by ( xxviii ) .
When is great , the amplitude approaches the value .
Therefore at such distances , or is insensible as compared with .
Even at distances 5 to 10 times the wave length , will be very small as compared with ; that is to say , the electric vibrations at comparatively short distances are to all intents and purposes transverse .
Turnin now to the velocity , we will first endeavour to trace its changes .
Let us write , where is generally a small quantity .
Then the denominator of the expression for in terms of ( see xxx ) may be written The second factor is negative for , then vanishes for , and is ever afterwards positive .
The third factor would vanish for imaginary values only , and since it is positive for , it remains positive always .
This supposes that is positive .
Similarly the numerator in the value of , or will always be positive , if be positive .
Now by ( xxix ) , cannot be negative unless or .
This corresponds to a degree of damping in which the amplitude would be reduced to 000019 of itself every period , or a degree immensely higher than that of the usual Hertzian oscillator .
Hence both the numerator and the third factor of the denominator are always positive .
Accordingly is negatively infinite for , becomes negatively finite , but very large , until when it again becomes negatively infinite , after this it becomes positively infinite , and rapidly decreases to zero as increases .
Thus , as in the case of the other waves , there is a sphere round the oscillator within which the waves move inwards for transverse electric vibrations .
This sphere is of somewhat larger radius ( as compared with ) than in the case of the magnetic wave .
In terms of the radius of this sphere is given by For example , when or , we find for the radius of this sphere , , or between six and seven times the radius of the sphere within which the velocity of the magnetic wave is negative .
Substituting the value of the radius .
Hence , for a small oscillator , say of a wave-length long , this sphere would be well outside the sphere 05 of a wave-length circumscribing the oscillator , and thus practically within the field to which our theory might be approximately applied .
The inward moving wave of transverse electric vibrations ought thus to be capable of experimental demonstration .
We have , in the next place , to find the minimum negative velocity , and its distance from the centre .
Writing and , we have to find the maxima or minima of Differentiating , we find for the required values 2 ( xxxi ) .
THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
Now , at it is easy to see that the curve in which is plotted to is still sloping towards the horizontal .
For if and , its equation is approximately or , decreases with increase of hyperbolically .
Hence the minimum negativ value sought must lie between and , say at , where is less than unity but not necessarily very small .
Thus we must put where is small , and endeavour .
to solve ( xxxi ) .
Substituting , we have or , Clearly , must be of the form .
Let us substitute this value and equate the successive powers of as well as the constant term to zero .
We find These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus These equations give us Thus ( xxxii ) .
We find at once that the required radius of the sphere at which the velocity of the electric transverse wave takes a minimum negative value ( xxxiii ) .
The next term in the expression for the radius would involve and may generally be neglected .
If the point of minimum velocity were half-way between the two points of infinite negative velocity , we should have the radius .
Hence , the point of minimum velocity is more than half-way towards the outer point of infinite velocity .
For the particular oscillator referred to on p. 162 , , and the radius of the sphere of minimum velocity nearly , while the sphere of infinite negative velocity has for radius nearly ( see p. 174 ) .
At a distance from the centre of the oscillator we have very approximately or , .
Thus at some distance from the centre of the oscillator , the excess of the velocity of this component transverse electric wave ( or of the total electric wave perpendicular to the axis ) over the velocity of light is three times the excess of the velocity of the magnetic wave .
In order to find the distance from the centre at which this component transverse electric and the magnetic waves have equal negative velocities we must make or , putting , solve the cubic Take ; hence Thus , , nearly ( xxxiv ) .
We conclude accordingly that the two velocities are negatively equal at a distance from the centre equal to , nearly .
This equal negative velocity is , nearly .
Similarly , the minimum negative velocity of the electric transverse wave may be shown to be \mdash ; ( xxxv ) , where as before .
For the special oscillator discussed above it equals , or is slightly less than 60 times the velocity of light .
The minimum negative velocity of the trsu IN TIlE FIELD OUND A THEORETICAL ERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
verse magnetic wave , and the equal negative velocity of both waves .
Thus again it appears more feasible to test experimentally the negative velocity of this transverse electric wave than that of the magnetic wave .
With regard to these negative waves , we can only cite what HERTZ has remarked on the infinite motion which occurs with a steady oscillator ( ' Electric Waves , ' p. 146 ) : " " At an infinitesimal distance from the origin the velocity of propagation is even infinite .
This is the phenomenon which , according to the old mode of expression , is represented by the statement that upon the electromagnetic action , which travels with velocity [ our ] , there is superposed an electrostatic force travelling with infinite velocity .
In the sense of our theory we more correctly represent the phenomenon by saying that fundamentally the waves which are bein developed do not owe their formation solely to processes at the origin , but arise out of the conditions of the whole of the surrounding space , which latter , according to our theory , is the true seat of the energy The following figure gives the velocity curve of the transyerse component electrlc wave or of the total electric wave perpendicular to the axis mmatically .
( 9 .
) lt is noteworthy that HERTZ , speaking of the electric force in the equatorial plane , i. e. , says that it cannot possibly be broken up into two simple waves travelling with different velocities Electric Waves , .
The explanation of HERTZ'S difficulty is , perhaps , simple ; for , having put , the distinction between and was VOL. CXCIII.\mdash ; A. lost his theory .
We may consider these to be two separate waves travelling in the equatorial plane , both indeed transverse just for this plane , but one travelling with the velocity of the transverse component electric wave and the other with the velocity of the magnetic wave , or that of the wave of axial component electric force .
Thus HERTZ'S original explanation of the irregularity of the interferences which did not succeed each other at equal distances , but with more rapid changes in the neighbourhood of the oscillator , seems justified by the fuller theory .
Namely , he explained this behaviour by the supposition " " that the total force might be split up into two parts , of which the one , the electromagnetic , was propagated with the velocity of light , while the other , the electrostatic , was propagated with greater and perhaps infinite velocity Actually we may resolve into two waves ; the transverse component electric wave is propagated with greater velocity than the wave of axial component electric force , which has the velocity of the magnetic wave .
Many of HERTZ'S experiments were made at a comparatively short distance from the oscillator , and some of the discrepancies he noted between his theory and experiment seem capable of explanation by aid of the velocity diagram given above .
( 10 .
) There is another quantity which HERTZ considers at length , namely , the rate of change of the magnetic force , which gives the integral force of induction round a small circle in a plane perpendicular to the magnetic force .
We shaU now accordingly consider the expression for from ( xvii ) : ( xxxvi ) , where , and therefore from ( xix ) , A more convenient form is easily deduced , namely : ( xxxvii ) , where as before .
IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
Now let give the phase of the sine term in ( xxxvi ) , or : Comparing with ( xxiv ) , we see , or : Thus the phase of the wave of magnetic induction always differs by a constant from that of the wave of axial component electric force .
Since , the velocity of the wave of magnetic induction equals that of the wave of axial component electric force , and is given by the of ( xxvi ) , or the diagram of p. 169 .
( 11 .
) In our diagram ( p. 184 ) we have plotted from the calculated curve for but it is interesting to note the following graphical construction for finding it directly .
Let as before .
Let Ox be the axis of , Oy of , then .
Take Ob , and let the vertical through meet the horizontal through in .
Let On equal , then and or the Take , so that , then .
If a circle be described round with radius , the arc corresponding to the angle is the required length .
Subtract this arc ( rectified , say , by RANKINE'S rule ) from the corresponding ordinate of the line through the origin , and we find the true value of .
This construction was ally gone through and compared with the calculated values for verification .
N.B.\mdash ; The angle has been much exaggerated for diagrammatic purposes .
( 12 , .
) Before we refer the reader to our diagram giving the phases of the various waves , and describe how they were obtained , it seems well to consider the combined wave oftotal transverse electrical force in the equatorial plane .
The resultant electrical force in this plane may be considered , as we have already seen , to consist of two parts , having different wave-speeds ; but , possibly , if a receiver were sufficiently small , it might not be possible to differentiate them , and HERTZ'S theoretical view of their 2- unity seems finally to have mastered his experimental suspioion as to the possible coexistence of two waves in this plane ( see our ) .
Accordingly we have worked out both the velocity and phase of this compound wave , which at the same time determines the total transverse wave ( see p. 170 ) , in order that a comparison may be made with HERTZ'S results for an undamped single wave in the equatorial plane .
Returning to the formula ( x ) and putting , it may be read as : ( xxxviu ) , where if : Hence , ( xxxix ) .
From this we deduce : ( x1 ) , where .
This formula is fairly well adapted for logarithmic calculation .
The phase may be obtained by taking It may be compared with the value for , obtained ffom , on p. 172 , where we easily find . . . . .
( xli ) , if cos .
As before This again readily lends itself to logarithmic calculation .
Both have for asymptote the same line , namely , .
IN THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
We now proceed to trace the velocity of the electrical disturbance in the equatorial plane .
We have whence , by differentiation , we find Hence , if be the velocity and , as before Now put Again put Then Thus we may write the above result ( xlii ) .
This is a form directly comparable with ( xxx ) .
If the wave be not damped , , which gives a value identical with that given by GRA * Absolute Measurements , ' vol. 2 , Pnrt II .
, PROFESSOR K. PEARSON AND MISS A. LEE ON THE VIBRATION@ The curve giving the velocity of this wave is found to be even more complex than that for either the wave of transverse or of axial component electric force alone ( p. 177 ) .
In the neighbourhood of the origin the wave starts with infinite positive velocity ; this falls to a finite but very great positive velocity at about , and then rises again and becomes infinite at about .
Beyond this we have a region of negative velocity , starting with an infinite negative velocity , and falling to a velocity even less than that of light at about8556 .
Then the velocity increases again , becoming infinite at about , after which it takes an infinite positive value and falls rapidly till it becomes equal to the velocity of light .
Thus there are two centres , one at about , and another at about .
from the oscillator ( more exact values are given below ) , from or towards which the ways appear to move with varying velocities .
In most cases the centre would be far too near the oscillator for experiment , but the centre , and even the point of negative velocity less than that of light , appear to be well within the field of experiment , and actually within the area inside which HERTZ made a good many experiments .
Considering the complex character of the velocity of this wave of electrical disturbance in the equatorial plane , we feel doubtful as to what interpretation can possibly be put on HERTZ'S interference experiments in this plane , especially on those made at a moderate distance from the oscillator .
The following figure gives the velocity curve of the equatorial electric wave .
The approximate values of the chief quantities concerned have been calculated in the same manner as those on pp. 173-176 , but it does not seem necessary to reproduce the calculations .
THE FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
Now it is clear , both from this diagram and from that on p. 177 , that we must go to about to get fairly constant velocity of transmission .
But in HEnTZ'S experiments was about metres ( see p. 162 ) , or the experiments , supposing a constant velocity of transmission desirable , ought to have been made at some 9 metres or more from the oscillator .
HERTZ'S first series are at less than 8 , his third series at less than 4 , and his second , which do go up to 12 , he states " " required rather an effort.\ldquo ; * Within these limits the exact nature of the interference and the points at which it may be expected to occur seem open to some criticism , even in addition to the difficulties which have been raised by the problem of\ldquo ; multiple resonance.\ldquo ; The views expressed above will be strengthened by an examination of the diagram giving the phases of the waves , the velocities of which have been already discussed .
( 13 .
) The phases have been plotted from the formulae given bove , as follows:\mdash ; I. nsverse Component Electric Wave of Force to Axis .
The formula is ( xli ) .
For the special oscillator for which our results are plotted , , The asymptote is We see from the diagram that the phase does not approach very rapidly to its asymptotic value , being still about 5 per cent. of its value from it , when We notice that starts from zero at the origin , and after high contact becomes small and negative .
This negative portion of the phase is too small to be seen on the large diagram , but an enlarged inset figure is added .
The curve cuts the axis and becomes positive at about , or at about metres from the origin , distance within which some of HERTZ'S experiments on terferenoe were made .
The range of negative phase could be considerably increased with a more rapidly damped oscillator .
The approximate for any value of is .
( xliii ) .
II .
Axial Component Electric Wave Wave of Radial Force .
In this case the formula used was deduced from ( xxiv ) .
This may be altered to 'Electric Waves , ' pp. 118 , 120 , and 119 respectively .
POINCARE , ' Electricite et Optique , ' vol. 2 , p. 195 et seq. , ) .
ci seq. We owe this general solution to the kindness of Mr. L. N. G. FILON , M.A. .
IN THffl FIELD ROUND A THEORETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
( xliv ) , which serves readily for logarithmic calculation .
The tion of the curve for which 8 is negative now lies between and 2 , and we must multiply it some 500 times to render the small negative values of S visible .
The approximate value of Ob for any value of is given by Ob and thus for our special case .
The asymptote is given by the line @ , or , for our special case O The curve for this wave has a far less sensible negative portion , and approaches much more rapidly to its asymptote , being in our special case at a distance less than 2 per cent. of the value of@ from its asymptote when Thus we see that there is a marked difference between the phases of the component transverse and component axial electric waves .
The first appears to proceed from a centre at distance given by ( xliii ) from the centre , and the second from a distance Ob equal , or practically from a point so close to the centre of the oscillator as not to be sensible in the case of any but very rapidly damped wave trains .
The ultimate phase difference of the two waves III .
of Magnetic Induction .
Here we can either use the graphical method of p. 179 , or the simple relation The latter method shows us that the asymptote is , or in our special case @\mdash ; 17615 .
Thus the ultimate difference of phase between the transverse component electric and the magnetic waves is , and between the axial electric and magnetic waves It will be seen that this wave of magnetic induction for a damped wave differs considerably from that given by HERTZ .
The most notable difference is the finite negative value of at the origin , and this VOL. CXCJII.\mdash ; A. 2 negative value of the phase continues until ; for the general case we may take approximately .
For the special value of used above , i.e. , , we find Oc This is at a distance from the source of or about metres .
Thus we see that the phase of this action does not , as HERTZ states ( ' Electric Waves , ' p. 154 ) , " " increase continuously from the origin itself In discussing the velocity we have seen that , so that the velocity of propagation is identical with that given by ( xxi ) .
Thus it becomes indefinitely great when for the above values of the constants .
The point , therefore , of infinitely great velocity is much closer to the origin than that of zero phase .
We think HERTZ considered these two points to be identical .
At any rate , he held that the wave moved with infinite velocity up to the point of zero phase .
For he argues from his conclusion that the phase increases continuously from the origin that : " " The phenomena which point to a finite rate of propagation must in the case of these interferences make themselves felt even close to the oscillator .
This was indeed apparent in the experiments , and therein lay the advantage of this kind of interference .
But , contrary to the experiment , the apparent velocity near to the oscillator comes out greater than at a distance from it . .
As a matter of fact , the alterations in the velocity of transmission of either magnetic wave or transverse component electric wave are very complex in the neighbourhood of the oscillator , and these variations do not bear a simple relation to the.points of zero phase , from which points HERTZ assumes the outward moving wave to start .
Something of the difficulties HERTZ met with in his experiments on " " interferences of the second kind\ldquo ; made close to the oscillator may well have been due to this complexity of result arising from the use of a damped wave-train .
IV .
The Compound Electric Wave in the Equatorial Plane , the Wave of Total Transverse Electric Force .
The formula is now ( x1 ) .
For the special oscillator for which our curve is drawn , , and the asymptote is * This must only be taken as the basis to find a second approximation , as the series converges slowly .
ences of the " " second kind\ldquo ; : see ' Electric Waves , ' p. 119 .
'Electric Waves , ' p. 154 .
HE A RETICAL HERTZIAN OSCILLATOR .
The general value for Od , giving the point of zero phase , is Od , approximabely .
For our special case , It will be seen that our curve approaches closer to its asymptote than the curve for the true wave of transverse vibrations .
Further , the centre , , from which the wave with positive velocity may be supposed to start , is moved far further from the origin .
It is rather further from the origin than it would be in the case of an undamped train .
* There seems , therefore , considerable doubt as to what HERTZ was really measuring in the case of his interference experiments in the equatorial plane .
Was he really measuring IV .
, or possibly I. , obscured in its effect by the superposition of II . ?
It is , we think , needful to re-examine the whole matter physically , endeavouring to distinguish between the components and .
For this purpose the direction of the axis , rather than the plane of the equator , seems the more suitable for experiment .
For in this direction the magnetic induction and the transverse electric component wave disappear , and we have the axial component electric wave only to deal with , i.e. , II .
only , I. and III .
being not extant .
Further , the numerous theoretical singular points to which we have referred seem to deserve , if possible , physical investigation .
To do this we require to emphasise as much as possible their distance from the oscillator .
But this means that we must get from a small oscillator a long wave-length , if the rate of damping be fixed , or , if the wave-length be fixed , we require very rapid damping .
Neither of these conditions seem easy of physical realisation .
Still something might be done by way of striking a balance , and , at any rate , we must not disregard the fact that a considerable portion of HERTZ'S experiments were made inside that portion of the field where the influence of these singular points and of the damping should at least theoretically make themselves felt .
( 14 .
) Conclusions.\mdash ; We may draw the following general conclusions:\mdash ; The effect of damping makes itself very sensible in modifying the form of the wave-surface as propagated into space from a theoretical oscillator .
The typical Hertzian wave-diagrams require to be replaced by the fuller series accompanying this memoir .
( ii .
) Three waves of electro-magnetic force may be considered as sent out from the oscillator , and these waves we believe capable of physical identification .
First , a component wave of transverse electric force , determined by .
This also gives the wave-speed and phase of force perpendicular to the oscillator axis .
Secondly , a component wave of electric force parallel to the axis , determined by .
This also gives the wave-speed and phase of force radial to the oscillator .
Thirdly , a wave of magnetic force .
* In this case Od correct to the last place .
In the general approximate value given above , we have neglected terms of the order , and the approximation is not nearly as accurate as this .
188 ON THE VIBRATIONS ROUND A THEORETICAL } The waves of magnetic force and of component axial electric force move outwards each with the same velocity at all points , and this velocity is equal for all points at the same distance from the oscillator .
The intensity of the first force for points on the same sphere varies as the cosine of the latitude , but that of the second force is constant .
The wave of component transverse electric force moves outwards with equal velocity for all points at the same distance from the oscillator , and its amplitude varies as the cosine of the latitude .
Its velocity after it has reached a certain distance ffom the origin , is always greater than that of the waves of component axial electric force , and of magnetic force , and its excess the velocity of light tends to become three times the excess of the velocity of the wave of magnetic force over the velocity of light .
( iii .
) The velocities of these waves undergo remarkable changes in the neighbourhood of the oscillator , but still at distances such as HERTZ experimented at , and which seem indeed to some extent within the field of possible physical investigation .
( iv .
) The point of zero phase for both transverse and axial component electric waves does not coincide with the centre of the oscillator , so that these waves appear to start from a sphere of small but finite radius round the oscillator .
A fourth wave dealt with by HERTZ , the wave of magnetic induction , does not , as he supposes , start from the centre of the oscillator with zero phase , but in the case of a damped wave train with a small but finite phase .
Our analysis of these waves and of their singular points in the neighbourhood of the oscillator appears to add something to HERTZ'S discussion ; it is possible that it may throw light on the difficulties which arise in connecting with some of his interference experiments .
It would seem to us that all interference experiments ought to be made at distances greater than 6 to 7 from the centre of the oscillator , roughly about a wave-length from the oscillator , whereas HERTZ rather terminated than started his experiments at this distance .
At such distances the phase curves are approximately parallel to their asymptotes .
Finally , we are not unaware of the physical difficulties attending experiments ; at such distances , and wish in conclusion to again emphasise the fact that our analysis only applies to a theoretical type of oscillator .
It is , however , the type for which HERTZ himself endeavoured to provide a mathematical investigation .
and Lee .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , Plate 1 .
/ / earson Lee .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , and Iaee .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , 'earson and Iaee .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , Plate 4 .
Pearson and Phil. , vol. 193 , Plate 5 .
mfson and Iaee .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 193 , Plaf , 'earson and Lo .
Phil. rans .
, , vol. 193 , Plate 7

