]\gt ; produced by } -Particle .
Part II.\mdash ; Connection Ionisation By H. , Ph. D. Communicated ) Prof. I Rutherford , F.R.S. Received February l , \mdash ; Read February 17 , 1910 .
) In the course of some experiments described in a previous paper , * the ionisation produced by an -particle its path in air curve was determined with Badium as source , and under con ditions hich were most favourable for ation .
The yeneral shape of this curve is well known .
The isation due to a parallel pencil of -particles from Radium increases up to a maximum value at cm .
Dnrin the next 5 .
of its path the ionisation decreases rapidly to zero .
The following experiments were undertaken to throw on the law of absorption of the -particle , and to esta'olish , if possible , a connection its velocity and ionisin .
power .
I. dntion 1906 , by a raphic method succeeded in the netic deflection of the rticles , and able determine the ] ave velocity at different points of the path different numbers of sheets of power : The extremely weak impressions the rticles produce on a raphic plate near the end of their path made mination of the velocity at this point difficult .
elocity hich Prof. utherford obtained for 14 aluminium sheets , in powel fo of air , was still of the initial velocity .
somewhat ising result has led to variouH speculations to what actually happens to an -particle at the end of its path .
It has ] ) iumed that either the -particle losc ) its the end of Ilge , that it is stopped there abruptly .
The difficulties of detlection of the } ) articles are appreciably less to-day than amount of radium ailable allows ns to use an intense source of -particles , for the observation of the deflected ticlos recently ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , p. 486 , 1909 . .
Mag vol. 12 , p. 138 .
Dr. H. [ Feb. 1 , many vers is more satisfactory than the photographic method .
In the light of these advantages .
Rutherford suggested that a redetermination of the velocity of an -particle its path was desirable .
An accurate determination of the magnetic deflection will only be possible if the pencil of -particles passing through the field is narrow and well defined .
For this reason the active deposit from radium emanation was concentrated on a thin wire of only mm. diameter .
By means of a small spring ement this wire ( A in fig. 1 ) was stretched in a horizontal position parallel to the lines of force of the magnetic field between and and parallel also to a fine slit ' of less than mm. width .
This slit and the spring were fixed to a slide , which fitted into the wider part of the brass case , the slide being oduced and removed the ground glass stopper 1 ) .
The , length of the wire was 1 , and its distance from the slit 72 cm .
The cylindrical pole-piec.es had a diameter of 7 cm .
and were cm .
apalt .
With a good vacuum the -particles expelled from the active surface of the wire travelled through the magnetic field as a well-defined beam and a very narrow , horizontal line of scintillations on zinc sulphide screen S. A microscope suitable for observing the scintillations could moved vertically parallel to the screen by means of screw and its position read on a scale to 1/ 20 of a .
The eye-piece of the microscope was fitted with a horizontal wire which just thic enough to be visible against the slightly ninated zinc sulphide screen .
It was easy to adjust the wire repeatedly on line of tillations within a tentb of a millimetre , at lcast as long as of the -particles was not too much diminished by the sheets of mica which interposed .
An experiment was carried out in the following way .
The active vire was fixed exactly ) arallel to the slit and then brought into the brass case in the position shown in fig. 1 .
The pparatus was then exhausted kept in continuous connection with a charcoal bulb dipping in liquid air .
hese preparations usually about twenty minutes .
Within that time all the Radium A the wire had practically decayed and the whole adiatio was due Iiadium only .
The microscope was now adjusted on the line of scintillations and its fter exciting the magnetic field the 1910 .
] The produced by a-Particle .
: microscope was adjusted on the deflected line and its position again read .
The adjustment and reading of the scale were repeated , and , if to be in accordance with the p , the netic field was changed and measurements made in the same way .
One set of these measurements could be taken within about twenty minutes .
The activity after that time was still strong enougl ] to allow another set of r.cadings to be made .
The air was admitted and the slide taken out .
A sheet of mica of known stopping power was then placed front of the wire .
After replacing the slide the apparatus , measurement could be taken as before .
The actual deHeclious due to the netic field were of the order of 1 cm .
, the intensity of field produced by an exciting current of 20 aulperes being about 10,000 .
The following Table I indicates the eneral COUl.se of procedure in an experiment:\mdash ; Table I. The results were obtained for } erent t of collected in the able II .
iu amps .
cragc3 .
1 .
4 .
8 .
12 .
iocity .
elocit of quivalent iu amps thickness of mica .
1 .
4 .
8 .
12 .
sheets cm .
of \mdash ; \mdash ; -- \mdash ; \mdash ; iocity air .
elocil of thickness of mica heets i11 cm .
of air .
cm .
0.90 1.98 Dr. H. Geiger .
[ Feb. 1 , The first column gives the stopping power of the mica sheets expressed in centimetres of air under standard conditions , the determination being made by the scintillation method .
The last two absorbing screens , equivalent to and cm .
of air , were obtained by adding to a sheet of mica , equivalent to cm .
, 15 and 21 gold foils respectively .
Each of these gold foils corresponded to cm .
of air .
It was not possible to measure the }netic deflection of the -particles which had passed through an equivalent thickness of cm .
of air for a stronger field than that excited by ampere ( equal to 950 Gauss ) .
The scintillations produced by the -particles after passing through this thickness were extremely weak and at the limit of visibility .
In addition , their number was much diminished , and they were spread out over a much greater area than usual , this being probably due to variations in velocity produced by scattering .
The average actual deflection obtained in this case for an exciting current of ampere was mm. , which corresponded to a velocity of of the velocity of expulsion .
The agreement in different readings made by two observers was such that the error in this figure will hardly exceed 10 per cent. In all the other experiments where the velocity of the -particles was high the scintillations were easy to observe , and the probable error in these cases is not more than 1 per cent. The error in the determination of the thickness of the mica sheets amounted to about 2 per cent. The average values obtained for the velocities are plotted against the range in fig. 2 .
It will be seen that the velocities found at different distances from the source agree well with the equation 1910 .
] The by rticle .
$ The best agreement was obtained taking the constant equal to 7 , which is very nearly equivalent to the maximum range of the -particles from Radium in air .
Since for ?
the ocity of the -particle is assumed to be unity , the factor becomes We may therefore conclude that the velocity of an -particle , at any point of its path , is proportional to the cube root of the range it has still to run .
It will also be seen that towards the end of the range the velocity of the -particles decreases rapidly , and probably becomes so small there that it is comparable with that of the molecules .
The -particle will then behave like an ordinary aseous ion .
The velocity curve obtained by .
Rutherford is , for the first 6 cm .
of the range , in good agreement with the curve above .
will be seen fronn the following table:\mdash ; able I utherford .
Ran 0.52 iger .
It seems probable that the at Che rJIld of the ange is due to use of aluminium sheets in the raphic experiments of These aluminium sheets are never quite uniform in thickness , and a certain fraction of the } ) articles will , after passing through them , still have i velocity somewhat } than the average .
But these swifter particles are most effective 011 the photographic plate , ltll( in of this the deflection will appear too small .
II .
Velocity in of The ionisation which is produced by a parallel } ) encil of -rays starting with identicalvelocity is given by the cve .
01 the first .
It is not essential that this curve also represents the nisatio due to absorption of a single -particle .
For even if all lia re actually expelled with identical velocities from their parent toms , they will acquire , in the course of their passage ] the air , difference in Dr. H. Geiger .
[ Feb. 1 , velocity .
This diilerence will be due partly to a variation in the number of collisions with the molecules , partly to the scattering of the -particles in their passage through the gas .
It will be shown by the author in another paper that anlount of scattering , although small for -particles of velocities , increases rapidly towards the end of the path .
* It is therefore to be expected that the -particles will show a small variation in velocity at the end of their , and that the velocities will be distributed about an value .
In conse of this , the ionisation curve , as measured for a pencil of -rays , will be somewhat different from that obtained for a single -particle .
From the ] ) eriments of others it is known that the nber of licles relnains constant when they pass through matter .
This recentl proved directly who found that the number of , scintillations ] ) roduced by the -particles from a polonium disc relnained practically unchanged when the disc was coyered aluminiult foils .
But the number decreased rapidly when the thickness of aluminium ] equivalent to the of the polonium particles .
In the experiment the decrease of the number of scintillations near the end of studied in 1nore detail .
-pnrticles a narrow source ] were allowed to fall on a zinc sulphide screen , which was ed to a scopc suitable for counting tions .
The veen the source of and the screen could be varied .
The number of cintillations was counted within the last centimetre of the intervals of .
] .
Aftel for the decay and the change of distance , a curve ) ined c the with the n1unber of scintillations observed minute .
curve is shown in fig. .3 .
It ppears that numbel of scintillations to decrease noticeably about cm .
from the .
At a point slightly ) cm .
) no scintillations could bs observed .
may therefore concludc that towards the end of the the velocity is not same for all -particles , solnl of them being able to travel several millimetres further than others .
A similar result ] using polonium a sotlrce of rays .
In this case the tionH ' ) be made with eater accuracy on account of the constancy of the source .
The same conclusion ) may be drawn from the experiments of Preliminary account , .
Soc. Proc , vol. , p. 1 W. Brag , ' Phil. Mag vol. 10 , p. 318 , 1905 ; .
Meyer , .
Zeits vol. .
, 1906 .
Regener , ' .
D. .
Ges vol. 10 , p. 78 , 1908 .
The Ionisation produced by -Particle .
Aschkinas measured the charge carried by the -particles from polonium at different parts of their range .
It be rence in velocit the could be ascribed in the spced with the rticles expelled .
) , from the pness of the of a deflected pencil 01 : erford eonclnded th th -particles from speed .
The variation in velocity , , ever , might pected f the jour of the end of old 1 of the order of only ) cent. , ntity which detection unless pencil of -rays lion .
It appeared , therefore , of interest to test whether ( iation in the eloci of ) be detected .
sinlilal ' to in that the extcnd about 10 eyond the field , so the wire to screen increased to .
Tn reat distance of the slit a measurable .
This width sured of the in a similar to described xcitil t the { ield , the hifted several ccntinletres .
The width the ) of the in esults : ' Dr. H. Geiger .
Table The figures in the last column represent the average values of several observations .
They are constant within the limits of experimental error .
A change in the width of the of 30 per cent. would have been recognised with certainty .
Since the actual deflection was of the order of 30 mm. , we may conclude that the variation , if any , in the initial speed of the -particles from Radium is certainly less than per cent. Thus , according to the above experiments the -particles from Radium are all expelled from their parent atoms with the same initial speed , but they acquire in passing through matter a slight difference in range of the order of 5 mm. As a rule the of au -particle from Radium is giyen as cm .
of air .
This coincides with the extreme end of the ionisation curve , as well as that of the scintillation curve .
Since only a small portion of the -particles actually travel as far as 7 cm .
, the average of an -particle expelled from Radium will be appreciably less , namely , about cm .
III .
Relation betwcen produced by the -Partides and th Retardation by Matt It has been shown previously that at a distance from the source the velocity of an -particle passing through air can be represented very closely by the equation ( 1 ) where and are constants , denoting the maximum range of the -particle .
In comparing this equation with the experimental results , was taken as 7 , which expresses that velocity becomes zero after the -particle has passed through 7 cm .
of air .
It was shown , however , in Section II that only a small portion of the -particles travels as far as 7 cm .
, about half of them being already absorbed after passing through cm .
It will be clear from the manner in which the measurements of the velocity were made that the curve , fig. 2 , does not apply for an average -particle , but rather expresses the 1910 .
] produced by change of velocity of an -particle which happens to travel through the whole range .
It will , however , be itimate to assume that the velocity curve of an -particle of average cm .
is given by the same equation , if for the value is used .
iven thickness oatter i absorbed .
Under this assumption the ionisation I produced at any part of the path may be calculated from the bove equation for the velocity .
We obtain or .
( 2 ) This theoretical ionisation curve is drawn in fig. 4 in full , ) taken equal to .
The curve qents therefore the ionisation produced by a single -particle with average range .
to this the produced by a single -particle , would increase rapidly towards the end of the range and then fall suddenly to zero .
This appears qnite , since we know that the positive particles in discharge tubes ( Kanal-rays ) are highly effective in ionising , although they travel at comparatively very low velocities .
The curve for a of -rays will obviously be somewhat different to the 5 14 Dr. H. eiger .
[ Feb. 1 , urve for a single particle .
For it will be built up of a great number of similar curves grouped about the curve of average range .
It is clear that the resulting curve will show a very similar rise , but while the ionisation of a particle will show a rapid increase and then a sudden stoppage , the curve for a pencil of -rays will pass gradually through a smooth maximum value and from there fall to zero in a fairly steep line .
As a whole the resulting curve will be in fair agreement with the ionisatiou curve found experimentally , which is plotted with a dotted line for comparison in the same It is therefore to be concluded that along the whole path of an -particle the ionisation produced by it is proportional to the rate at which it loses energy .
Combining equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , we obtain const , i.e. the ionisation or expenditure of energy is inversely proportional to the velocity , or in other words , the ionisation produced at any point of the path is proportional to the time which the -particle takes to cross the atom .
If we assume this law and the proportionality between ionisation and expen- diture of energy , then the velocity curve and the ionisation curve , which have both found experimental verification , would follow by deduction .
It is of interest to note that Prof. Bragg , *although starting from different equations , arrived at the same conclusion , namely , that the ionisation produced by an -particle is inversely proportional to its velocity .
The data , however , which were available at that time as ards the ] ocity , were against a proportionality between ionisation and of energy .
IV .
Conclusions .
( 1 ) The velocity of an -particle expelled from Radium decreases rapidly towards the end of its path .
( 2 ) The velocity with which the -particles are expelled from the atoms is constant within the experimental error of per cent. In passing through air , the -particles acquire a slight difference in velocity .
( 3 ) The ionisation produced by an -particle is at any point of its path proportional to the rate at which it loses its energy .
( 4 ) The loss of energy is inversely proportional to the velocity .
I wish to acknowledge the assistance which Mr. .
Marsden , B.Sc. , has 'Phi ] .
Mag vol. 13 , p. 350 , 1907 .
1910 .
] odnced by an article .
510- again given me in of these observations ; I desire to .
, sincere thanks to Prof. hutherford for his kind interest , the ress of this research .
$ Additiomd \mdash ; Solve very interesting } ) imen t on retardation of ' -particles ) metals rases have recen tly bePll ] ) .
Taylor .
* He has shown that the stopping power of etal decreases with , speed them , rate of decrease is approximately to the square root of the atomic of the metal used .
determined the ) ionisation curves in ound a difference in their shape .
This difference , in connection with the other results , indicated the ionisation near the end of the of an -particle is , at least in , to the fact that the rticle 1 its pidly in this part of the range .
This conclusion is in reement with the experiments described in the foregoing paper , which made it ) able that tion produced and energy spent b ) nn article , .
matter , are roportional .
In the light of the of aylor , ) ] ) to nse hydrogen in the lion which served in my previous experiments to measure the tion p different ) of the atll , the previous absorption of the -particles ] ) made in air .
The ) rapid in rease of the ionisation towards the end of the when the ionisation veRsel lvas filled with hydrogen than when viCh n is perhaps not , it ) , due to the obtained in that gas , but is due to a small in the relative number of ions produced the ] ) of tho in .
In consequence of this , whole ) of ions ] ) roducod by the ' from the different dinm products , as calculated from the ltion curve , and given in Table [ of ions ) , onld be sli , htly too great by an additive constant .
'Phil .
' vol. 18 , .
( J04 , 1909 .
See fig. 2 of previous paper , ' .
Soc. Proc , ) .
, 1909 .

