]\gt ; Effect of on the Hissing of when Flowing through Constricted Tube .
By SIDNEY SKINNER , M.A. , and F. ENTWISTLE , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1915 .
) The tensile strength of liquids has been the subject of study under two conditions , the first of which may be called the statical condition , was used by Berthelot* and Worthington , and more recently by H. Dixon .
In this method some liquid , at rest in regard to the walls of containing vessel , is submitted to a stretching force .
The second condition , in which the liquid is moving in relation to the walls of the vessel , and is at the same time submitted to a stretohing force , has not been studied in detail .
Osborne Reynolds has given a general description of the phenomenon , which is of common occurrence .
When a liquid is flowing through a pipe of varying section , at the constriction the velocity may be so high that the corresponding diminished pressure in the liquid is sufficient to break it .
This was the subject of his paper read before the British Association at Oxford , 1894 .
He regarded the effect as a boiling of the liquid under diminished pressure , just as boiling may be produced in warm water by removing the surface pressure .
The experiments about to be described suggest that the phenomenon in the constricted tube is a true tensile rupture produced in the moving liquid .
Osborne Reynolds describes his experiment thus : " " Take a glass tube , say , inch internal diameter and 6 inches long , and draw it down in the middle so as to form a restriction with easy gradual curves so that the inside diameter in the middle is something less than 1/ 10 inch , leaving the parallel ends of the tube something like inches each .
And then connect one of these parallel ends by flexible hose to a water main which is controlled by a tap .
Then , on first opening the tap , the water entering from the main will fill the tube as far as the restriction , and pass through the restriction , but it will not , in the first instance , of necessity fill the tube on the far side of the restriction .
If the water is turned on very slowly and the open end of the tube is inclined upwards , then the water will accumulate and fill the tube , displacing the air .
But if the water is turned on sharply so that when it reaches the neck it has a velocity of 40 or 50 feet a second , the * Berthelot , M. , ' Ann. de Phys. et de Chim .
' 1850 ) .
Worthington , A. M. , ' Trans. Roy .
Soc London ( 1892 ) .
Dixon , H. H. , ' Transpiration and the Ascent of Sap in PIants ' ( 1914 ) .
VOL. XCI.\mdash ; A. 2 Messrs. S. Skinner and F. Entwistle .
water after the minimum section will preserve its velocity shoot out as a jet a squirt , not touching the sides of the glass , if the open end of the tube be held downwards the water , whatever velocity , will , after passing the restriction , run out of the tube filling it .
In neither of these cases is there any hiss or sound except such as caused by the free jet passing through the air .
" " But on holding the open end of the tube upwards and quietly filling both limbs of the tube by opening the tap very quietly , and then on more water , the water will not shoot out in a jet but will come out like any other stream\mdash ; as it might do if there were no restriction .
' At first , while the velocity through the neck is below 50 feet per second , there is no sound , but as soon as a velocity of 54 feet per second is attained , or a little more , a distinct sharp hiss is heard\mdash ; exactly resembling that of the kettle or the hiss of the water through a tap If this phenomenon was the simple boiling of the water it is evident that , if the water were raised to 10 C. and then passed through such a tube the hissing would occur with practically no velocity .
This critical point of hissing has been studied with water and with certain other liquids .
The first experiments were with tap In order to have a large supply of hot water to force through a constricted tube a 2-gallon can was taken and a tubulure was fixed in the base which could be connected with the high-pressure water supply , and a second tubulure was attached near the top of the can , to which could be attached a constricted glass tube , the ordinary mouth of the can being closed with a wired-on cork , carrying a brass stopcock .
The high-pressure water supply was fed by a cistern about 70 feet above the level of the apparatus , so that the pressure could be of any value up to 70 feet of water .
The constricted glass tube was bound on to the upper tubulure of the can by means of a rubber and wire .
The can was placed on a tripod and could be heated from below .
The investigation of the velocity required to give the hiss was made by raising the water in the can to the required temperature , closing the tap at the top of the can , and then forcing that bulk of warm water through the constriction by turning on the tap connected to the high-pressure supply .
When the pressure had been adjusted so as just to get the hiss at the constriction the velocity of the stream was measured by collecting the water which flowed out in a given time .
The temperature of the water was obtained either by plunging a thermometer into the collected water , or by arranging the thermometer in the escape tube so that the erature of the escaping stream observed .
The results , which are given in the following Table , Tlre Effect of Temperature on the Hissing of were plotted in diagrams which showed the mass of water passing in a time ainst the temperature ; when these points were examined it was that they could be represented in general by straight lines .
These straight lines when cut the axis of temperature.at a point which , if the mean of the above observations to be taken , is 32 C. , or , in other ords , they appear to cut the temperature axis at a temperature which is approaching the critical point of vater , .
In this they resemble the temperature coefficient of surface tension .
This result at once indicates that , in the case of water , the phenomenon of the hiss would apparently cease near the critical temperature of the water\mdash ; a result which be expected if the view is taken that the critical temperature is the temperature at which the tensile strength is zero .
It certainly is the view , which was put forward by Osborne Reynolds , that the phenomenon is ordinary boiling .
When a calculation is made to find the critical velocities of flow , using the formula where is the viscosity , the density , and the radius of the constriction at the smallest section , cm .
in the case of the tube used in many of these experiments , it appears that the observed velocity in these experiments is always greater by far than the critical velocity .
This result would show that the flow is not the orderly flow of stream-line motion , although on the inflowing side of the constriction owing to the trumpet shape of the constriction it may be flow of this character ; and the turbulent portion may be confined to the outflowing portion of the stream .
These considerations have led us to be ltious in applying Bernouilli 's formula , by which the fall of pressure at the constriction might have been calculated .
If this had been justifiable an estimate might have been obtained of the actual pressure to which the water was exposed .
When the experiment is working properly the bubbles formed at the constriction are extremely small , and give the stream a cloudy appearance .
When the temperature of the water is high , nearing that of the ordinary boiling point , on some occasions large bubbles were formed , breaking up the hot stream .
These bubbles were like those of ordinary and it is probable were formed when the stream coming from the hot tank where the water was under pressure bursts into , somewhat after the manner of a geyser .
The water may have been superheated to a slight degree when this was observed .
If it had been possible to maintain in the apparatus some back pressure this have been prevented ; but it was not possible with the apparatus at command .
The conclusions to which the experiments lead are : 1 .
That the phenomenon of hissing of water passing a constriction is due to a true rupture of the stream at the point where the pressure is lowest .
Ionisation of Mercury , , and Zinc .
485 2 .
That the temperatures at which the hissing just occurs , between and follow a law which may be expressed , V is the velocity of the stream at a temperature the critical temof water , and a constant .
Experiments are continued with other liquids , but the form of has to be modified with them , and we are not yet satisfied thaG the form reproduces the required conditions .
Ionisation of , Cadmium , Zinc , and the Single- -lined Spectra of these By J. C. , and J. P. HENDERSON , University of Toronto .
( Received May 28 , 1915 .
) [ PLATE 6 .
] .
In a paper by Frank and Hertz in the ' Physikalische Zeitschrift , ' *these investigators have shown that the minimum required to ionise an atom of mercury is that acquired by an electron in a fall of of volts .
These writers have also shown in a later communicathat when heated mercury vapour is traversed by electrons possessing energy htly above this amount the vapour is to the emission of the single spectral line .
This result constitutes a new and most interesting application of the quantum theory , for it will be seen that in the relation , where erg volts is the potential fall which corresponds to the frequency of the line A.U. If the relation just pointed out be applicable generally to all the elements it follows that if the vapour of an element can be shown to be capable of exhibiting a single-line spectrum , the frequency o this single spectral line may be used to deduce the minimum amount of required to ionise the atoms of.that element .
With the object of establishing such a generalisation , if possible , some experiments were recently made by the writers , and it has been found that .
D. Phys. Ges vol. 10 , pp. 457-467 .
' Verh . .
D. Phys. Ges vol. 11 , p. 512 .

