[ 7\#187 ; ] VI .
On the Molar Teeth , Lower Jaw , of Macrauchenia patachonica , Ow .
By Professor Owen , F.B.S. Received April 21 , \#151 ; Read June 10 , 1869 .
The dentition of a Mammal so rare and interesting as the Macrauchenia deserves better illustrations than the single reduced view of the lower molars given in 1845* * * S , and the still more reduced figures of both upper and lower teeth lithographed by BRAVARDf .
The intention to communicate to the Koyal Society a description with figures of the natural size of the specimen of mandible and teeth , still unique , in the British Museum , has been deferred in the hope of acquiring from South America other fossil remains , especially the upper jaw and teeth of Macrauchenia 'patachonica ' , but such fossils have not yet come under my observation .
The recently obtained knowledge , however , of the former existence of another large quadruped in America , with cameline characteristics of the cervical vertebrae like those in Macrauchenia , coupled with true cameline affinities , as exemplified by the dentition of the lower jaw in Palauchenia , induces me no longer to delay the adequate record of the characters which so strikingly distinguish the perisso-dactyle from the artiodactyle forms of hoofed quadrupeds with the intraneural course of the vertebral arteries in the region of the neck .
The specimen here described formed part of a series of fossils from Buenos Airs , purchased for the British Museum in 1845 .
I was requested by Mr. Konig , the then Keeper of the Department of Mineralogy , to examine and report on that Collection , which chiefly consisted of Megatherian remainsj , and I was led by the conclusions which I had formed of the pachydermal affinities of the genus , based on bones of the trunk and limbs described in the 'Fossil Mammalia of the Voyage of the Beagle'S , to recognize the mandibular specimen with teeth as belonging to that genus , and I accordingly figured it as such in the concluding part of my ' Odontography .
' The specimen ( Plate VIII .
figs. 1-3 ) consists of the part of the left ramus of the lower jaw of a full-grown individual , with six consecutive grinders , anterior to which the jaw is broken away , as is also the hind end of the ramus about 3 or 4 inches behind the last grinder .
The first tooth in place answers to the second premolar ( Plate .
VIII .
figs. 1-3 , p 2 ) of the typical series .
It is implanted by two fangs , supporting a lamelliform * Owen 's ' Odontography , ' pi .
135 .
fig. 7 , p. 602 .
t Published by Burmeister , in the * Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires , ' Entrega Primera , 4to , 1864 , pi .
1 .
+ See Owen 's 'Memoir on the Megatherium , ' 4to , 1860 , p. 11 .
S 4to , 1840 , pp. 35-56 , pis .
vi.-xv .
crown , the compression being from side to side , or from within outwards , and the extension of the crown from before backwards .
In this direction the crown expands as it rises to an antero-posterior breadth of 30 millims. ( = 1 inch 2 lines ) , whence it contracts , rising to a submedian obtuse apical summit .
The outer side of the crown is convex from its fore margin to two-thirds of the way back , then becomes concave to a vertical ridge , , marking off a short posterior tract of the crown which inclines inward and is almost flat .
From this tract the continuation of enamel bends abruptly inward and forward ( fig. 2 , ) , rapidly sinking to a mere basal ridge , continued along the inner side of the crown into the similarly bent anterior border of the crown , e. The concavity bounded by those inwardly inflected borders of the crown is divided into two by the prominence of the thickened mid parts ( d)of the crown forming its apex , a. The abraded surface of this tooth forms a sinuous tract of dentine , thickest at the middle , thinnest behind ( fig. 3 2 ) .
The next tooth ( p 3 ) resembles p 2 , with increase of thickness , but none of fore-and-aft extent .
The facet of the crown behind the outer ridge ( fig. 3 , b ) passes more directly inward , so as to form the posterior part of the crown .
The inner wall is more abruptly continued from it , subsiding to the ridge crossing the base of the mid inner convexity ( d ) , to which the anterior inflected fold of enamel ( \lt ; ) is continued .
The convexity ( ) is broader and rather flattened between the better defined hollows of that surface of the crown .
This tooth is implanted by two fangs .
The third tooth ( p4 ) adds increase of fore-and-aft extent to that of thickness of the crown , and also resembles the succeeding true molars in being divided into two lobes by a vertical indent of the outer surface ( fig. 1 , 4 ) entering the inner mid convexity , fig. 3 , d. This gives to the grinding-surface { 4 , fig. 3 ) the form of two consecutive crescents , of which the hinder one is the largest ; such being the type of lower grinder common to Rhinoceros and Palceotherium with this singular South-American Perisso-dactyle .
The first of the true molars ( ml ) exemplifies its earlier development and longer usage by having the crown worn down below the convexity and concavities on the inner surface ; a broad bilobed tract of dentine shows the outer mid indent , with a remnant of the postinternal cavity ( fig. 3 , ml ) : the enamel is now reduced to a very thin line along the anterior and inner sides of the crown .
In the penultimate molar ( m2 ) the sinuous configuration of the inner surface of the crown is preserved , the enamel of the mid convexity rising to form the most prominent part of the grinding-surface ( figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , d ) .
The tooth is increased in all dimensions .
The last molar ( m 3 ) , with a fore-and-aft extent of crown of 48 millims. ( =1 " 10 ' " ) , preserves the same bilobed type as in Rhinoceros , without any trace of a third posterior lobe or ' talon , ' as in Palceotheidum .
The lobes have been worn by mastication to a breadth of two or three lines , and as the inner enamel-wall is continued by the inflected and subsiding fore and hind borders to the inner basal ridge , the crescents of the masticating surface have an enamel border only on their outer or convex sides .
Thus Macrauchenia differs from Rhinoceros and Palceotherium in the limitation of LOWER JAW , O MACRATJCHENIA PATACHONICA .
assumption by the premolars of the molar type of grinding-surface to the last of the premolar series , the antecedent premolars retaining the single-lobed crown ; from Palceo-therium it further differs , as before observed , in the retention by the last molar of the two-lobed structure .
In Artiodactyles , and especially the ruminant section , all the premolars have a simpler structure with the smaller size of crown .
From the figures by Bravard * we learn that Macrauchenia , like many other tertiary mammals , retained the type dentition , viz. c p m ~=44 , and that , as in Anoplotherium and Dichodon , the series was unbroken by any notable interval , not any of the teeth having a crown much higher or longer than the rest .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE VIII .
Fig. 1 .
Portion of left mandibular ramus with the^\gt ; 2-m 3 grinders : outside view .
Fig. 2 .
do .
do .
do .
: inside view .
Fig. 3 .
Grinding-surface of the teeth .
These figures are of the natural size .
Fig. 4 .
Entire mandible with the p 3 -m3 grinders , and a restoration of the missing teeth : outside view , reduced view : from Bravard , op .
Fig. 5 .
p 3-m 3 , inside view ; similarly reduced : from Bravard , Fig. 6 .
Grinding-surface of second upper molar ( m 2 ) , right side , restored to the natural size : from Bravard 's plate .
[ The upper molars ( ml , m2 ) of Macrauchenia , as of Nesodon , are penetrated by three folds of enamel on their inner side , which , deepening as they extend , are soon interrupted by wear , and the ends converted into islands .
In m 2 ( Plate VIII .
fig. 6 ) the mid fold is of unequal depth and becomes reduced to two islands of enamel ( e , h ) .
In m 1 the island ( h)of Bravard 's specimen is not shown , but this maybe because the tooth is more worn .
In m 3 the insular end of the fold ( \#163 ; ) remains beyond the fold , which continues as in m 2 : the mid fold is represented by a single island , and the third fold ( d)is short .
The outer lobe ( / * ' , b ) is turned , as usual , in m 3 , so that the surface ( f ) looks outward and backward , with concomitant contraction of the hind part of that molar .
The last premolar ( p4 ) is like a small molar , but shows only two enamel-islands on its inner half : p 3 has a mid indent on the outer side and indications of two shallow folds on the inner side ; it has lost breadth , but retains fore-and-aft extent ; p2 is still more narrowed transversely , has an even outer surface , and a single fold of enamel on the inner one which runs forward .
This fold is represented by a notch in^\gt ; 1 .
The premolars decrease in breadth , and in a minor degree from before backward , as they approach the canine , \#151 ; R. O. , March 1870 .
] * Op. cit. M Macranchema /

