II .
" On the Vertebral Characters of the Order Pterosauria ( Ow .
) as exemplified in the Genera Pterodactylus ( Cuv .
) and Dimorphodon ( Ow .
) .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 23 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) After mentioning various considerations which have tended to invest the question of the vertebral characters of the Pterodactyles with peculiar interest ; above all , in reference to carrying out the comparison of their skeletoln with that of birds ; the author alludes to the scanty information on the subject already on record , which with the exception of a remark .
of Professor Quensted as to the apparently proccelian characters observed by him in a dorsal vertebra of Pterodactylus Suevicus , and the apparenit want of the trochlear form in the cervical articulations of that animal-affords no available data for comparing the vertebral mechanism of these reptiles with that of other vertebrata adapted for flight ; he then gives a summary of his own observations , made , as opportunities presenited themselves , for some years past .
From investigations of species of Pterosauria exteniding from the period of the Lias , as exemplified by the Dimorphodon macronyx , to the upper green-sand , as exemplified by the Pterodactylus Sedgwicleii and Pter .
Fittoni , the author has ascertained the fact , that , with respect to the cervical and dorso-lumbar vertebree , the terminal articular surfaces of the vertebral bodies are simply concave anteriorly and convex posteriorly , and that they consequently manifest the earliest known instance of the " proccelian " type which now prevails in tne reptilian class .
But in no other reptile are those articular surfaces so narrow vertically , in proportion to their breadth , as they are in the cervical vertebrve of the Pteros8auia : in the dorsal series the cup and ball present more ordiinary Saurian proportions .
Besides these principal and more general characters , those also which distinguish the vertebre of the several regions of the spine , together with the specialities of the atlas and axis , and of other individual vertebrue , are pointed out and described .
The Paper is illustrated by numerous figures , which ( excepting two from the Aptenodyte &amp; ) belong to the Pterodactyle .

