174 On Haemoglobin Metabolism in Malarial Fever .
( Note .
) By G. C. E. Simpson , B.A. , B.Sc. , F.R.C.S. ( Communicated by Major R. Ross , F.R.S. Received October 12 , \#151 ; Read December 8 , 1910 .
) The object of this study was to examine some of the cases of malaria reported upon by Major R. Ross and Dr. David Thomson in their paper on " Enumerative Studies on Malarial Fever , " with especial reference to the meaning of the fall of haemoglobin there recorded during pyrexia , in the ultimate hope that some light may thus be thrown on various problems connected with malaria , and especially with blackwater fever .
The chief product of haemoglobin metabolism , and the only one available for quantitative work , is the urobilin which is removed from the body partly in the urine , partly in the faeces .
Previous observers have devoted much attention to the quantitative determination of urinary urobilin in health and disease , and have shown that it is increased in diseases connected with pyrexia and with haemolysis .
In benign tertian malaria the urinary urobilin is excreted in quantities comparable to those in other diseases .
In malignant tertian malaria the excretion of urobilin in the urine is somewhat higher .
Occasionally very marked urobilinuria occurs .
The main channel of elimination of urobilin , however , is the faeces , and this fact has been somewhat neglected in comparison with the urinary estimations .
Serious difficulties are met with owing to variations in composition of faecal urobilin .
The amount of urobilin in the faeces nearly always completely overshadows that in the urine .
In our cases of benign tertian malaria , the excretion of faecal urobilin is again found to be comparable to that in other pyrexia !
diseases .
In malignant tertian malaria , however , a high output is the rule , and occasionally a very large output occurs .
This is of importance as showing that great haemolysis has occurred and that an amount of haemoglobin ( 25 per cent. ) has been destroyed ( and its products excreted ) comparable to the fall recorded by the haemoglobinometer ; this shows that the haemoglobinometer readings denote an actual destruction of corpuscles , and not merely a relative fall in the peripheral circulation .
The number of corpuscles destroyed is much larger than the number infected by parasites .
The eliminating organs deal with a large amount of haemoglobin during the pyrexial periods and the days which immediately follow ; this would seem to indicate a continual loading of the blood plasma with freed hsemo* On Hcemoglobin Metabolism in Malarial Fever .
175 globin ; but the amount of haemoglobinaemia is kept below that necessary to produce haemoglobinuria by the continuous activity of the liver .
In a case of blackwater fever examined by Major Ross , Dr. Thomson , and myself , the faecal excretion of urobilin reached an astonishing figure , representing practically the elimination of an amount of haemoglobin equal to the whole of the circulating blood .
This was accompanied by slight urobilinuria and very slight hasmoglobinuria , showing that the haemoglobinuria of black-water fever is apparently only an overflow from the normal channel of excretion , and that the haemolysis has reached an exceptional figure .
Further studies are being made on the subject .
Colour-Blindness and the Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Part II.\#151 ; Incomplete Red or Green Blindness .
By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.B.S. [ This paper is published in Series A , vol. 84 , No. 572 .
] On the Sensibility of the Eye to Variations of Wave-length in the Yellow Region of the Spectrum .
By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. [ This paper is published in Series A , vol. 84 , No. 572 .
] vol. lxxxiii.\#151 ; B. p

