150 Mr. G. H. F. Nutt all .
New Biological Test " The pear-shaped Figure of Equilibrium of a Eotating Mass of Liquid .
" By Gr .
H. Darwin , F.E.S. " Sir la Stability de l'Fquilibre des Figures Pyriformes affect^es par un Mass Fluide en Eotation .
" By H. Poincar:6 , For .
Mem. E.S. The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Skin Currents .
Part II.\#151 ; Observations on Cats .
" By !
Dr. A. D. Waller , F.E.S. II .
" The New Biological Test for Blood in Eelation to Zoological ?
Classification .
" By Dr. G. H. F. Nuttall .
Communicated by Sir M. Foster , Sec. E.S. III .
" Observations on the Cerebral Cortex of the Ape .
Preliminary !
Communication .
" By A. S. F. Grunbaum and Professor ?
Sherrington , F.E.S. IY .
" On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters in Man .
" By\ Professor K. Pearson , F.E.S. V. " On the Process of Hair turning White .
" By Professor Elias Metchnikoff , For .
Mem. E.S. " The New Biological Test for Blood in Eelation to Zoological Classification .
" By George H. F. Nuttall , M.A. , M.D. , Ph. D. University Lecturer in Bacteriology and Preventive Medicine , Cambridge .
Communicated by Sir M. Foster , K.C.B. , Sec. E.S. Eeceived November 2 , \#151 ; Eead November 21 , 1901 .
In recent publications which have appeared in the ' British Medical Journal'* and in the 'Journal of Hygiene ' t I have described the technical methods whereby the so-called specific anti-sera may be produced , and in the article in the latter journal , the reader will find the literature on the subject exhaustively treated .
The anti-sera are produced briefly as follows : Assuming that we wish to obtain an anti-serum for human blood , we inject human blood intra-perito-neally into rabbits .
After about five injections , given at intervals of three or more days , the rabbit is bled to death , and its blood-serum collected .
The serum of this rabbit will be found to have acquired the remarkable property of producing a precipitation immediately on its being added in small quantity to a dilution of * 'Brit .
Med. Joum .
, '1901 ( 11th , May ) , vol. 1 , p. 1141 ; ( 14th September ) , vol. 2 , p. 669 .
f ' Journ. of Hyg./ 1901 ( 1st July ) , vol. 1 , p. 367-387 .
for Blood in Relation to Zoological Classification .
151 human blood-serum .
If allowed to rest , the precipitated substance gravitates to the bottom of the tube .
I have now tested upwards of 230 bloods obtained from animals of all classes of vertebrates with such anti-serum for human blood , and have , with the single exception of monkey bloods , obtained negative results throughout .
Similarly , if rabbits are treated with the blood of the horse , dog , ox , sheep , \amp ; c. , anti-sera are formed which produce precipitations only in the bloods of the animals whose blood was used for treatment , or , to a lesser extent , in the bloods of nearly allied animals .
The importance of the test from a medico-legal standpoint has been fully realised , and we can safely look forward to the test being put to practical use in the detection of crime .
Whilst Uhlenhuth has proved that dried blood-stains can be used for the test , a solution of the dried blood being made for the purpose , I have shown that human blood which had putrefied for two months is capable of giving a reaction with its homologous anti-serum .
I have , moreover , shown that human blood can be detected in a mixture of five or six different bloods brought into solution so that each blood is present but in the quantity of 1 : 500 or 1 : 600 .
As stated above , the only bloods which gave a reaction similar to that of human bloods have been the bloods of different species of monkeys .
Since my papers appeared I have had occasion to test eighteen kinds of monkey bloods .
The reaction obtained with monkey blood only differs from that obtained with that of the human subject in degree .
Monkey blood gives a feebler reaction than human blood with the anti-serum for human blood .
Accepting the classification of the Primates given by Flower and Lydekker , * we find that they are classified into two groups , the Lemuroidea ( Lemurs ) and Anthropoidea ( Man and the Apes ) .
As stated by the authors named , the view that the Lemurs belong to the Primates is largely traditional ; they think they should , perhaps , be grouped in a distinct order .
There are facts for and against this .
Taking the Anthropoidea , we find them divided into the five families , Hapalidae , Cebidee ( New World Apes ) , Cercopithecidse , Simiidse ( Old World Apes ) , and Hominidse ( Man ) .
According to Darwin , the Old World apes are more closely related in many respects to the Hominidse than are the New WTorld apes .
And it is a striking fact , brought out by the tests I have made , that the New Wrorld monkeys give a less marked reaction with the anti-serum for human blood than do the Old World monkeys .
On the other hand , the test gave a negative result when applied to the blood of two species of lemur ( .
L. ruffrons ) .
The eighteen monkey bloods tested were as follows : Hapalidse ( Hapalepygmcea , Midas oedipus ) , Cebidse ( Mycetes Uacaria # ' Mammals , Living and Extinct , ' 1891 .
M 2 The New Biological Ted for Blood .
rubicunda , ( debus albifrons ) , Cercopithecidae ( M. molgus , M. rhesus , M. ocreatus , Cercopithe C. patas , C. lalandi , C. melogenys , C. callitricha , Semnopithecus Simiida* ( the chimpanzee , Anthropopithecus trand Ourang-outang , Simia satyrus ) .
All of these bloods reacted to the anti-serum for human blood , the New World monkey bloods less , and least of these the bloods of the Hapalidse .
I am at present attempting to estimate quantitatively the differences in the amount of reaction obtained .
When the experiment was tried with the anti-serum for dog 's blood , the only bloods besides those of the domesticated dog which were found to react were those of other Canidae ( fJ .
ciureus , mesomelas , C. procyonides , C. cerdo ) .
Similarly , the anti-serum for horse blood only gave a reaction with the blood of the horse and donkey .
The antiserums for ox and sheep blood have given reactions , which indicate the existence of a " blood relationship " between certain of the true ruminants .
Whereas the anti-serum for ox blood acted powerfully on the blood of the ox and other members of the bovine section , it also produced reactions , but to a lesser degree , with the bloods of several species of the ovine section ( Sheep and Goat ) , with the blood of several species of deer , the antelope and gnu .
The anti-serum for sheep 's blood gave almost as powerful a reaction with ' the blood of the closely related goat as it did with that of the different species of sheep , and also produced lesser reactions with the bloods of the other ruminants above mentioned .
The above experiments , which are being prosecuted on a large scale , the attempt being made to obtain a variety of anti-sera , indicate with certainty that we possess in this test a most valuable aid in the study of classification of animals .
I am at present engaged in producing anti-sera for monkey blood , one of the objects being eminently practical .
Just as in the case of the anti-serum for ox blood , which acts powerfully on ox blood and feebly on sheep 's blood , and vice versa , we shall by means of both the anti-serum for human blood and the anti-serum for monkey blood be able to differentiate the blood of man and monkey conclusively .
This would scarcely have any practical application in this country , but it might very well be a matter of great medico-legal importance in countries where there are monkeys .
Thus , I recently received a letter from Mr. E. H. Hankin , of Agra , stating that a case had come before him where it appeared essential to make a test to determine if certain blood-stains were caused by human or monkey blood .
In such cases it would be necessary to prepare anti-sera for the most prevalent genera or species of monkey .
The more powerful the anti-serum obtained the greater is its sphere of action upon the bloods of related species .
For instance , a weak anti-serum for human blood produced no reaction with the blood of the On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters Man .
153 Hapalidse , whereas a powerful anti-serum did produce a reaction , and proved what I may be permitted to call the " blood relationship " in the absence of a better expression .
Referring to the anti-serum for human blood , I may state that I have successfully produced it in rabbits by injections of old human pleuritic exudate preserved in a bottle with chloroform for five to six months .
Similarly , some old anti-diphtheritic horse serum preserved for two years and seven months in the laboratory by means of trikresol also yielded an anti-serum for horse blood .
The anti-sera produced in these cases was feebler than that which is produced by injections of fresh serum .
Dilutions of these old preserved fluids gave the characteristic reactions with their homologous anti-sera .
I have also found that the anti-sera may be preserved for months with chloroform , although there is no denying that they lose in power .
Anti-serum which had been preserved for over seven months in sealed capillary tubes-was likewise still effective , although less potent .
Through the kindness of Mr. Frank E. Beddard , F.R.S. , Prosector of the Zoological Society 's Gardens , and numerous friends , who are generously aiding me by sending blood-samples from various parts of the world , I am gradually gathering together considerable material for study .
Wherever possible the fluid sera are being sent me preserved with chloroform .
Dried sera , on the other hand , are sent on slips of pure filter-paper , upon which appropriate data are noted in pencil .
The results of the investigation indicate the necessity of not limiting the work to vertebrates alone , and many questions naturally suggest themselves , the solution of which may be attained by means of the biological test .
The assumption seems justified that we may , for instance , be able at some future date to determine chemical differences in the blood of the various races of man .
We no longer need to rely solely upon morphological characters for the differentiation of species .
It is impossible to enter into details concerning the nature of the reaction here described ; it is a subject for further study .
Suffice it to say that it is exceedingly complex , but at the same time the most delicate of tests known .
" On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters in Man .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received November , 2 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1901 .
( 1 .
) Mr. Francis Galton , in his ' Natural Inheritance , ' first , I believe , endeavoured to give a quantitative appreciation of the inheritance of the mental characters in man .
Mr. Galton 's data

