A paper was read , entitled , " On the Existence of four distinct Hearts , having regular Pulsations , connected with the Lymphatic System , in certain Amphibious Animals .
" By John Muller , M.D. , Professor of Physiology in the University of Bonn .
Communicated by Leonard Horner , Esq. , F.R.S. The author had long ago observed , that , in frogs , there exists , immediately under the skin , large spaces containing lymph , whence it can be readily collected by making incisions through the skin .
These receptacles for lymph are larger in the frog than in the other amphi ?
bia : but all the animals of this class appear , from the observations of the author , to be also provided with remarkable pulsating organs , which propel the lymph in the lymphatic vessels , in the same way as the heart propels the blood circulating in the arterial system .
In the frog , two of these lymphatic hearts are situated behind the joint of the hip , and immediately underneath the skin .
Their contractions are performed with regularity , and may be seen through the skin - , but they are not synchronous either with the motions of the heart , or with those of the lungs , and they continue after the removal of the heart , and even after the dismemberment of the animal .
The pulsa ?
tions of these two organs on the right and left side are not performed at the same time , but often alternate at irregular intervals .
The author proceeds to trace the connexions of these cavities with the lymphatic vessels in the neighbourhood , and with one another : and it appears from his researches , that the lymph of the hinder extremities , as well as that of the posterior part of the abdomen , is conveyed by means of these hearts into the trunk of the crural veins .
He also gives a description of the posterior part of the venous system of the frog , noticing particularly the large transverse anastomosis between the sciaticand the crural veins , which joins the anterior median vein of the abdomen , and conducts the blood partly into the vena portae , and partly into the renal veins .
Professor Miiller has likewise discovered two anterior lymphatic hearts in the frog ; a discovery to which he was led by some observations of Dr. Marshall Hall , who stated that he had seen in that animal an artery pulsate after the removal of the heart .
These ante ?
rior lymphatic hearts lie on each side upon the great transverse process of the third vertebra , immediately under the posterior end of the scapula , and they are nearly as large as the posterior hearts .
They receive the lymph of the anterior parts of the body , and probably also that of the intestinal canal , in order to transmit it into contiguous veins , which pour their contents into the jugular vein .
The author has discovered similar organs in the toad , the salamander , and the green lizard ; and is of opinion that they exist in all the amphibia .

