V. Note " On the position of Alunminum in the Voltaic series .
" By CHARLES WHEATSTONE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1855 .
Having , through the kindness of Dr. Hlofmann , been permitted to examine a specimen of aluminum prepared by M. Claire-Deville , availed myself of the opportunity to ascertain one of the physical properties of this extraordinary metal , which it does not appear has been yet determined , viz. its order in the voltaic series .
The following are the results of my experiments .
Solution of potass acts more energetically and with a greater el olution of hydrogen gas upon aluminum than it does on zinc , cadmium or tin .
In this liquid aluminum is negative to zinc , and positive to cadmium , tin , lead , iron , copper and platina .
Employed as the positive metal , the most steady and energetic current is obtained when it is opposed to copper as the negative metal ; all the other metals negative to it which were tried became rapidly polarized , whether above or below copper in the series .
In a solution of hydrochloric acid aluminum is negative to zinc and cadmium , and positive to all the other metals above named .
With this liquid also copper opposed to it as the negative metal gave the strongest and most constant current .
Nitric and sulphuric acids are known not to act chemically in any sensible manner on aluminum .
With the former acid diluted as the exciting liquid aluminum is negative to zinc , cadmium , tin , lead and iron .
The current with zinc is strong ; with the other metals very weak , and it is probable that their apparent negative condition is the result of polarization .
When aluminum is immersed in dilute sulphuric acid , this metal appears negative to zinc , cadmium , tin and iron , but with lead , on which sulphuric acid has no action , the current is insensible .
In both these liquids copper and platina are negative to aluminum , and notwithstanding the apparent absence of chemical action on the latter metal , weak currents are produced .
It is rather remarkable , that a metal , the atomic number of which is so small , and the specific gravity of which is so low , should occupy such a position in the electromotive scale as to be more negative than zinc in the series .

