When placed near the tail , the single fins seem also to aid the effect of that instrument by increasing its breadth .
The tail is the principal organ of progressive motion , and its actions are performed by the great mass of lateral muscles .
There are a series of short muscles for the purpose of changing the figure of the tail fin , which arise from the spine and coccyx , and are attached to the rays immediately beyond their joints : ( dd ) : their action is to expand the rays , and by partial contractions to alter the lateral position of the fin .
Slender muscles are placed between the several rays , ( ee , ) whose office is to converge them previous to the stroke of the tail .
The muscles situated on the head are those , which act on the membrana branchiostega , the under jaw , os hyoides , faztces , and the globe of the eye .
In order to determine the effect of the fins on the motions of fishes , a number of living dace , * of an equal size , were put into a large vessel of water .
The pectoral fins of one of these fishes were cut off , and it was replaced with the others .
Its progressive motion was not at all impeded ; but the head inclined downwards , and when it attempted to ascend , the effort was accomplished with difficulty .
The pectoral and abdominal fins were then removed from at second fish .
It remained at the bottom of the vessel , and could not be made to ascend .
Its progressive motion was not perceptibly more slow ; but when the tail acted , the body showed a tendency to roll , and the single fins were widely expanded , as if to counteract this effect .
From a third fish , the single fins were taken off .
This produced an evident tendency to turn round , and the pectoral fins were kept constantly extended to obviate that motion .
From a fourth fish , the pectoral and abdominal fins were cut off on one side , and it immediately lost the power of keeping the back upwards .
The single fins were expanded , but the fish swam obliquely on its side with the remaining pectoral and abdominal fins downwards .
From a fifth fish , all the fins were removed .
Its back was kept in a vertical position , whilst at rest , by the expansion of the tail , but it rolled half round at every attempt to move .
From a sixth fish , the tail was cut off close to the body .
Its progressive motion was considerably impeded , and the flexions of the spine were much increased during the endeavour to advance : but neither the pectoral nor abdominal fins seemed to be more actively employed .
From a seventh fish , all the fins and the tail were removed .
It remained almost without motion , floating near the surface of the water , with its belly upward .
These experiments were repeated on the roach , * the gudgeon , t and the minnow , with similar results .
The muscles of fishes differ materially in their texture from those of other animals : they are apparently more homogeneous , their fibres are not so much fasciculated , but run more parallel to each other , and are always comparatively shorter .
They become corrugated at the temperature of 156 ?
of FAHRENHEIT , when their tendinous and ligamentous attachmenits are dissolved , and their serous juices coagulated .
Under those circumstances the muscles lose their transparency , and the lat:eral cohesion of their fibres is lessened .
But the mechanical arrangement and physiology of the lateral muscles of the body of fishes constitute my present object .
These parts have already been described in a general way by Professor CAMPER , M. VICQ-D-AZYR , and M. CUVIER , to whom I am indebted for much useful information .
They have been denominated " couches musculaires " by M. VIcg-DAZYR , * and " muscles laterals " by M. CuvIER.t The term used by M. CUVIER seems very appropriate for the general division or class .
But , as the flakes are arranged in distinct longitudinal rows , these rows must be considered as orders .
And , as ' " couches " appears objectionable , I shall adopt series in its stead ; distinguishing each by a word referring to its situation in the animal , viz , .
the dorsal , vertebral , abdominal , and ventral series .
These series are composed of thin masses of muscle , or , as they are commonly called , flakes ; which for the most part are thicker upon their outward edges , and become wedgeshaped towards their interior attachments .
Each series is separated from the next adjoining by a membraneous partition , which is most apparent between the vertebral and abdominal series .
The dorsal series ( ff ) arises from the back of the head .
In its course it is terminated on the upper edge by the bones , which support the single fins , and a membranous septum : at this part the flakes are thin .
Its lower margiin is bounded by the vertebral series , where the flakes become gradually thicker .
The first flake is composed of longer fibres than the rest , and possesses more red blood .
Those succeeding it y range obliquely backwards .
They are all joined together by cellular membrane , and shining fasciae , which resemble the tendinous expansions in quadrupeds .
Towards the middle of the fish the flakes are thicker , and stand more perpendicular to the surface , becoming oblique and thin as they approach the tail ; whilst the intervening fasciax are most dense at each extremity .
This series consists of forty-five flakes , a number corresponding with that of the spinous processes to which they are attached , and which does not vary with the groxwth of the fish .
The muscular fibres constituting each flake , run nearly at right angles with its anterior and posterior surfaces , and parallel to the length and surface of the fish ; except that their posterior extremities in cline somewhat inwards .
As the skull affords the ultimate fixed attachment of this series , and its moveable insertions are on the vertebra , and the tail , it follows , that its combined action is to bend the whole body and tail towards one side ; or , if the flakes contract partially , to give it a serpentine motion .
To produce these effects all the other series co-operate .
The superior external edges of the flakes of the vertebral series ( gg ) form acute angles with the inferior external , edges of those of the dorsal series , the apices of which point towards the tail : the flakes are larger , but their number is the same .
The lower margin of this series is bounded by the central membranous partition , , which has already been noticed to be more conspicuous than the other longitudinal divisions , and it apparently admits of greater motion .
The abdominal series ( hh ) is compose , ed of flakes similar to the preceding .
IIThey range towards the tail , forming an angle with those of the vertebral series , the apex of which is presented towards the head .
They are attached internally to the transverse and inferior spinous processes of the vertebrae .
The ribs are placed in the line of the centre partition , and lie between the flakes .
This series arises from a bone which borders the opening for the gills , and the pectoral fin , with its scapula and muscles , is situated between its foremost flakes .
Wherever this series encloses the viscera , its flakes are shallow , and their thickness internally is not much less than at their external superficies .
Lastly , the flakes of the ventral series ( ii ) form acute angles with the abdominal flakes , the points of which incline to the tail .
It is attached anteriorly to the os hiyoides , and the bones of the lower jaw .
In its course it is bounded above by the abdominal series , and below by a membranous septum , within which the inferior single fins arise .
The flakes , that cover the viscera , are shallow ; and they lie more oblique as they approach the tail .
Both this , and the last described series , have their muscular fibres arranged according to the length and figure of the fish .
Three large superficial nerves ( kk ) passing longitudinally from the head to the tail , in the course of the membranous partitions , give off fibrils at right angles , which bend inwards between each of the muscular flakes .
A larger set of nerves are sent from the medulla spinalis , one between each flake , the branches of which seem to enter without ramifying there .
Another small nerve passing from the head , and running deep-seated , and close to the dorsal spines , crosses and unites with each of the spinal fibrils , and at the junction a remarkable body appears : it is a loose transparent vesicle , about the ~8 size of a millet-seed , containing a white substance like the carbonate of lime found in the intercostal ganglions of frogs .
This vesicle is included wxithin the sheath of the nerve .
The coats of the blood-vessels are of a delicate texture , and easily ruptured .
In order , therefore , to secure them from being injured by the violent and sudden actions of the muscles , the principal trunks both of the arteries and veins are enclosed in osseous canals , formed by the bases of the superior and inferior spinous processes ; and their first ramifications lie within grooves in the spills .
As they pass out to supply the muscles , their branches are immediately subdivided , so that a considerable vessel soon becomes extremely minute .
The rate , at which many fishes move through a medium so dense as Water , is very remarkable ; their velocity being scarcely surpassed by the flight of the swiftest birds : and although the large proportion of muscles , and their advantageous application , may partly account for the phenomenon , yet the power would be inadequate to the effect , if it were not suddenly enforced ; as is evident from the slow progress of eels , and such fishes as are incapable from their length , and flexibility , of giving a sudden lateral stroke .
But the quickness and force of action in the muscles of fishes are counterpoised by the short duration of their powers .
Those accustomed to the diversion of angling , are aware how speedily the strength of a fish is exhausted , for if , when booked , it be kept in constant action , it soon loses even the ability to preserve its balance , and turns upon its side , fatigued and incapable of motion .
This has been vulgarly attributed to drowning , in consequence of the mouth being closed upon 4IDCCCVI .
C 9 the hook ; but the same effects take place when the hook is fastened to the side , or tail .
This prostration of strength may depend partly on fear , and partly on interrupted respiration , since fishes , when swimming rapidly , keep the membrane branchiostegce closed , and when nearly exhausted , act violently with their gills .
The shortness of the muscular fibres , and the multiplied ramifications of the blood-vessels , are probably peculiar adaptations for the purpose of gaining velocity of action , which seems to be invariably connected with a very limited duration of it .
Such examples form an obvious contrast with the muscular structure of slow-moving animals , and with those partial arrangements where unusual continuance of action is concomitant .
Since my former communications on the subject of cylindrical arteries , * another instance of their supplying slowmoving muscles , which are capable of long continued action , has been pointed out to me by Mr. MACARTNEY .
It is in the muscles , which act upon the feet and toes of many birds , and seems to be an adaptation for the long exertion of those muscles while they sleep , and also when they alternately retract one foot under the feathers to preserve it from the effects of cold .
The muscles of the human body , which perform the most sudden actions , have their masses of fibres subdivided by transverse tendons , or are arranged in a penniform direction .
The semi-tendinosus , and semi-membranosus of the thigh are thus constructed ; the former having its fleshy belly divided by a narrow fascia , and the fibres of the latter being ranged Phil. Trans. iSoo , p. 98.-Also 1804 , p. 17 .
in a half-penniform manner .
The recti abdominis are also divided into short masses by transverse tendons , and all these mnuseles are conjointly employed in the action of leaping .
Perhaps these observations may indicate the reason for that diversity in the lengths of various muscles , which act together ; thus , organs of velocity are joined with those of power , and mutually co-operate to produce a simultaneous effect .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE I. The drawing was made from a cod which had been coagulated by heat , in a case of plaister of Paris , the skin being taken away , and an equal portion of the flakes carefully removed from each series , to exhibit their several directions .
The subject was reduced to the present size by accurate -measurements .
aa , Muscles which extend the pectoral and jugular fins .
bbbbb , Oblique muscles , which erect the rays of the single fins .
cc , Muscles which depress the rays .
dd , Muscles which extend the rays of the tail .
ee , Interosseal muscles , which close the rays .
ff , The dorsal series of muscular flakes .
gg , The vertebral series .
hh , The abdominal series .
ii , The ventral series .
kkk , Three superficial nerves which run longitudinally between the series of flakes .
1 , Posterior surface of a dorsal flake .
m , Posterior surface of an abdominal flake , Ct 11 I Anterior surface of a vertebral flake .
o , Anterior surface of an abdominal flake , The middle portion of the fish from whence the flakes have been removed , shows the several directions of them , and also their different thicknesses .
The spine appears in the chasm .
Oll-------.M/ -------- . ? ? ?
?-.tj=^--S ; 24 Ii In ^N p-4 0~ 0tII 4 : : iiI ----- ... -..--7.----------+ Z p---- ?
-------:-----p ---------------POPHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
i. The Croonitan Lecture on the .
Arrangement and mechanical Action of the Muscles of Fishes .
By Anthony Carlisle , Esq , F.R.SI F. L. S Read November 7 , 18o5 .
IT was my intention to have continued my physiological inquiries on the phenomena of muscular motion , by a series of chemical experiments ; and to have communicated the result , when duly matured , to the Royal Society .
But an unexpected request , made at a late period , for the Lecture of the present year , obliges me to defer those researches , and to limit the investigation of the subject I have chosen .
The application of the motive organs of animals has already furnished examples of general utility by increasing our know ; ledge of mechanical powers ; and the cultivation of this study promises still further improvement .
The muscles of fishes are of a very different construction from those of the other natural classes .
The medium in which these animals reside , the form of their bodies , and the instruments employed for their progressive motion , give them a character peculiarly distinct from the rest of the creation .
The frame-work of bones or cartilages , called the Skeleton , is simple ; the limbs are not formed for complicated motions , and the proportion of muscular flesh is renarkably large , The muscles of fishes have no tendinous chords , their insertions being always fleshy .
There are , however , semitransparent , pearly tendons placed between the plates of muscles , which give origin to a series of short muscular fibres passing nearly at right angles between the surfaces of the adjoining plates .
LEFWENHOECKappears to have overlooked these tendons , and the numerous vessels , which he describes in the interstices of the muscular flakes , I have not been able to discern .
The motion of a round shaped fish , independent of its fins , is simple ; and as it is chiefly effected by the lateral flexure of the spine and tail , upon which the great mass of its muscular flesh is employed , whilst the fins are moved by small muscles , and those , from their position , comparatively but of little power , I shall only describe in detail the arrangement and application of those masses , which constitute the principal moving organs .
For this purpose a well known fish , the cod , + has been selected as a standard of comparison for the muscles of other fishes , there being a conspicuous resemblance among the all .
The pairs of fins have been considered as analogous to feet , but they are only employed for the purposes of turning , stopping , altering the position of the fish towards the horizon , Phil. Trans. Vol. XXX .
p. 19o. .
t Gadus Morbua of LrNN.^US .
and for keeping the back upwards .
The single fins appear to prevent the rolling of the body , whilst the tail is employed to impel it forward .
Each of those fins , which are in pairs , is capable of four motions , viz. of flexion and extension , like oars , and of expanding the rays , and closing them .
The extension of the whole fin is performed by a single radiated muscle , which is often supplied with red blood : the antagonist is of a similar character .
The great power of the extensor muscle ( Vide Plate I. a , a , ) shows how strongly it is required to act when employed to stop suddenly the progressive motion .
A series of intervening muscles expand and close the rays .
In the act of extending the fin the interosseal muscles are passive .
It is advanced forward edgeways and closed ; but during its flexion , the rays are expanded , striking the water with its broadest surface : this action assists the tail in turning the fish .
In the efort to stop , these fins are strongly retained at right angles with the body , by the force of the extensor muscles , the rays are expanded , and the effect is assisted by the tail turning laterally with its broadest surface forward .
The single fins , for the expansion and contraction of their rays , are furnished with two sets of muscles ; one of which is situated at their roots , and lies oblique ; ( bbbbb ) the other , parallel with the spines , to which the rays are articulated ( cc .
) The fin has also a lateral motion , bywhich it is occasionally dr-awn out of a straight line ; and by the co-operation of these muscles on both sides , it is kept steady whilst the body of the fish is turned oblique in swift motion , or in eddies .

