426 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ Mar. 13 , III .
" Notes on the Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from the Andes of Ecuador , , collected by Edward Whymper , No. IL Antisana .
" By Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc.* F.R.S. Received February 29 , 1884^ Antisana is a much loftier and grander mountain than Pichincha , for its summit rises to an elevation of about 19,000 feet above the sea , * and the upper part of the mountain ( some 4,000 feet ) is covered with snow and glaciers .
The crevasses on the latter are described by Mr. Whymper as being of an enormous size , probably the largest he had ever seen , and on his first attempt to ascend the peak he was prevented from reaching the summit by chasms and cliffs of ice , among which his party , in consequence of the mists , had become entangled .
A second attempt proved successful , but the snowy summit of Antisana is evidently not one likely to be reached by unpractised mountaineers .
The mountain is situated slightly to the south of the equator , to the east-south-east of the city of Quito , and nearly due east of the town of Machachi .
" The extent of ground covered by Antisana , " according to Mr. Whymper , " is , perhaps , as great as that covered by any of the Ecuadorian Andes , and more than is occupied by most of them .
From north to south it extends over more than 20 miles of country , and not much , if at all , less from east to west .
From most points of view at a distance , the mountain in form appears more like a ridge than a single summit .
A close approach on the western side shows that this appearance is somewhat misleading , and that Antisana has two principal summits , the larger and higher being an immense snowy flat-topped boss , and the second ( not less than 1,500 feet lower than the other ) a sharp peak , which is probably at all times completely inaccessible .
" The lowest point to which the glaciers extend on the western side is 15,294 feet ; on the northern and southern they descend to about the same level ; but Mr. Whymper is not able to say how far they come down on the eastern side .
" In that direction the most notable feature of the mountain is a very extensive shoulder running out from near the summit , at a height of about 17,000 feet above the sea , in an east-north-east direction .
It is singularly level and unbroken in outline , and is entirely obscured by a snow-covered glacier , suggesting by its form that there is an old flow of lava concealed beneath .
" There is no trace of a crater anywhere near the summit upon any side , but the snow covering the flat-topped boss , forming the higher * Whymper , mere , bar .
, 19,335 feet ; Reiss and Stubel , A , 18,885 feet .
It is thus about third or fourth in order of elevation among the summits of Ecuador , being about as high as Cayambe , but lower than either Cotopaxi or Chimborazo .
1884.1 Microscopic Structure of Some Hocks from Kcuador .
427 point , may possibly fill and hide a crater .
The diameter of the nearly level area which forms the summit is about equal to that of the lip of the crater of Cotopaxi .
It is also certain that there is no open crater on any part of the western slopes of the mountain .
" Of the remainder Mr. Whymper says : " I speak .with less confidence of the northern and southern sides , as I have not seen completely round them , and of the eastern side I can only speak of the parts not more than 1,000 feet below the summit .
Upon my first and unsuccessful attempt to ascend the mountain we were stopped for a considerable time ( by the difficulties encountered ) at a height of somewhat more than 17,000 feet above the sea , and , whilst waiting , we noticed several puffs of strongly sulphurous vapour .
We did not , however , observe either upon the summit , or when viewing it from a distance , anything of the nature of an eruption , or learn from the persons living in the vicinity of the mountain that any eruption had occurred to their knowledge .
" Mr. Whymper 's collection from Antisana consists , as in the ease of Pichincha , of a series of ten specimens obtained in Quito , and fourteen collected by himself .
Pour of the latter shall be described first , as they come from the lower part of the mountain , from a spot called Antisanilla , which however is 12,340 feet above the sea .
Here a hacienda abuts against a great lava stream which has descended from the mountain , and is the one most familiar to the natives of the district .
Mr. Whymper remarks that it was the only large stream of lava which he observed on the western side of the mountain running on towards the west : " Its full extent 1 do not know , owing to mist .
We coasted its southern side for 5 or 6 miles on the way to the Hacienda of Antisana ( 13,300 feet ) , and the small Hacienda of Antisanilla , an appendage of the large establishment , is built by the side of the lava stream , which was by various persons several times termed in my hearing the lava of Antisanilla .
The surface of the stream was extremely rugged and well-nigh inaccessible .
" Prom this lava Mr. Whymper collected specimens : the one selected for microscopic examination is a black sub-vitreous rock , containing small crystals of white felspar , whose diameter is commonly not more than 0*125 inch .
The general aspect of the specimen shows it to be one of the darker varieties of andesite , a member of the gi'oup of rocks that have been variously named melaphyre , pitchstone-porphyrite , \amp ; c. The crystals belonging to the earlier stages of consolidation which are included in the slide are rather small , no one of the felspars exceeding 0*1 inch , and only one or two approaching this size .
They are plagioclastic , but as the majority have broken away in grinding the slide , one cannot venture to give a more definite name .
The crystals of pyroxenic minerals are yet smaller ; most of the latter occurring either in small scattered crystals about 0*006 inch long , of rather 428 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ Mar. 13 elongated form or in small grannies .
Owing to the smallness and rather indefinite character of the pyroxenic constituents it is difficult to speak very positively about them ; augite , however , is certainly present , and possibly hypersthene .
Minute crystals and grains of an iron oxide , probably magnetite , as we might expect from the colour of the rock , are rather abundant .
The ground-mass appears to consist of a clear glass , faintly tinged with brown , and densely crowded with microliths .
These are lath-like crystallites of felspar , generally not exceeding 0*005 inch long , not seldom composed of two or three individuals , and belonites , of a very faint green tinge , not exceeding about 0*001 inch by 0*0002 inch , probably hornblende .
The evidence as to the felspar is conflicting ; probably both oligoclase and labradorite are present , but my observations tend to the conclusion that the latter is the more abundant species .
The rock on the whole agrees best with augite-andesite .
Its specific gravity , determined for me by Mr. J. J. H. Teall , is 2*656 .
A second specimen from the same locality resembles the former in structure , but is of a dull india-red colour .
It is so evidently the same rock , differently coloured by conversion of the black oxide of iron into the red oxide , that I have deemed it needless to examine its microscopic structure .
The two other specimens are simply scori-aceous varieties of the latter rock .
It is difficult to fix the precise localities of most of the specimens obtained by Mr. Whymper from the collector at Quito , as the places mentioned on the labels are not known to the former , and in most cases , he thinks , are of no more general acceptation than the names attached by Alpine herdsmen to the crags and pinnacles in the vicinity of their chalets .
All , he believes , are from the south-western or western side of the mountain and from localities whose height above the sea is not likely to exceed about 13,000 feet .
Three are probably derived from some one subsidiary crater on the south-western flank of Antisana , named Guagra-ialina , though there is a slight variation in the spelling .
The first of these is labelled Cornente de lava de Guagrahialina volcan , Lado 8.0.0 .
Antisana .
It is a dark grey rock , of scoriaceous aspect , with many small vesicles , usually less than 0*1 inch in diameter , and several specks of whitish felspar .
It resembles some of the dark grey lavas of Auvergne , and , like them , is no doubt an augite-andesite .
As the specimen presents no features of special interest , I have not examined it with the microscope .
The next is simply labelled Antisana , Gu volcan .
It is a compact dull grey rock , with a slight purplish tinge , containing occasional crystals of glassy felspar , sometimes rather more than 0*1 inch in length .
These , on examination with the microscope , prove to be a plagioclastic felspar , but there is so much variation in the extinction angles that it is impossible to decide upon the species .
They con1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of Some Rocks from Ecuador .
429 tain , in variable amount , cavities with bubbles , brown glass enclosures , and other microliths , some being elongated prisms which may be apatite ; but probably more than one mineral is present .
There are also some small fairly well-defined crystals of augite , but I have not succeeded in identifying any hypersthene .
A remnant of a glassy base appears to be present in the ground-mass , but it is so crowded with felspar microliths , and with granules of iron peroxide and of augite , as to be with difficulty distinguished .
The felspar microliths are lath-shaped ; they are a plagioclase ; but , as in the case of the larger crystals , it is probable that more than one species is represented .
The rock is an augite-andesite , and its general aspect reminds me of some of the porphyrites of the Cheviots ( e.g. , a hypersthene-andesite from Coquette , near Windy Haugh ) .
The third specimen , labelled Ouagra-ialina volcan , lado S.O. del Antisana , is a rather duller coloured , less markedly porphyritic rock than the last , having some minute vesicles .
The microscopic structure does not differ materially from that of the last described .
Possibly a little hypersthene is present , but this is not conspicuous ; thus the rock is an augite-andesite , and all these specimens may have come from different parts of the same flow or from a closely related series of flows .
From Quebrada de JJrcucuy come two specimens of pitchstone .
One , labelled entre Tablarumi y Urcucuiloma , is a dark greenish-grey rock , traversed by numerous cracks ; its fracture is very irregular , and it exhibits the resinous lustre characteristic of pitchstone .
A few minute scattered crystals or grains of a glassy felspar are visible , and there is a very faint indication of a fluidal structure .
When examined microscopically , the rock exhibits as a base a clear and colourless glass .
In this are scattered a large number of microlithic enclosures together with some scattered crystals of larger size .
The general parallelism of the longer diameters of both of these , and the occasional filamentous streaks of an aggregated grey dust render the fluidal structure more conspicuous microscopically than macroscopi-cally .
The great majority of these microliths are little prisms or columns , usually about O'OOl inch long , and commonly about one-sixth of this in breadth .
They are almost colourless , but appear to have a slightly green tinge .
I think it probable that , like the belonites in the Arran pitchstones , to which they present some resemblance , they are hornblende .
Besides these , we find opacite , with occasionally a fleck of brown mica or felspar crystals of small size .
The " dusty " bands are found to resolve themselves , when viewed with a quarter-inch objective , into streams of microliths , like to , but perhaps slightly smaller in size than , those described above .
Among the larger crystals are felspar : of this mineral orthoclase and a plagioclase are present .
Some of the crystals are rather broken or rounded in outline , but others have well-defined external angles ; the 430 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ Mar. 13 latter are generally smaller and clearer , containing a few belonites and but little else .
The former are often " dirty , " containing glass enclosures , cavities , and various microlitbs , as if belonging to an earlier stage of consolidation .
Besides these are several crystals of brown mica and a few of hornblende , well defined , together with scattered grains of magnetite .
The cracks are marked by a pale green staining , and there are no indications of a perlitic structure .
The other specimen of pitchstone labelled entre Tablarumi Chacana is of nearly the same colour as the last described , but contains many rounded whitish spots , roughly about to inch diameter , which are seen on examination to be spherulites ; a portion of the specimen is vesicular .
The description given of the base of the last specimen will serve for this , except that there is little indication of a fluidal structure .
There are a few scattered crystals of felspar , brown mica , and hornblende .
The spherulites are rather peculiar , they have a rather irregular bluntly lobed outline , are nearly opaque , but exhibit a faintly fibrous structure , something like that of groups of blunt-pointed camel 's hair brushes .
So far as can be ascertained , they consist of a brown glass traversed by belonites of a paler mineral , and trichites of a darker one , but it is very difficult to determine their exact structure .
They generally enclose a small crystal of hornblende or felspar , in one case both are present , but not centrically disposed .
Without , chemical analysis one cannot decide whether these two rocks are glassy forms of the rhyolites or of the dacites , but I should be disposed to class them with the latter.* A third specimen from Quebrada de labelled in addition Entre Tablarumi y TJrcucuy , is a crumbling pale cream-coloured rock , which , on closer examination , gives indications of having been glassy and of a somewhat perlitic structure .
This is confirmed by microscopic examination , though the nature of the rock has prevented the preparation of a good slide .
It is evidently a decomposed perlitic pitchstone , and very probably when in a fresh condition was nearly related to the two others from this neighbourhood.f Prom the south western side is a specimen labelled Quebrada azufre grande , S. 0 .
Reiss and Stiibel , as Mr. Whymper informs me , mention a " Quebrada azufre grande , " giving a measurement Parte inferior de la Lorna al lado derecto de la Quebrada , tyc .
, 4,040 metres ( 13,255 feet ) .
The name signifies " Great Sulphur " ravine .
This * Since the reading of this paper Mr. J. J. H. Teall , F.Gr .
S. , has kindly determined for me the specific gravity and silica percentage of the former of the two pitchstones .
S.g. =2*337 j Si02 = 72*99 , the loss on ignition being 1*15 .
These determinations fully confirm the microscopic analysis .
t A spherulitic pitchstone from Antisana is described by Yom Rath , " Yerh .
Nat. Yer .
Preuss .
Rheinl .
, " Folg .
4 , Bd .
1 ; " Sitzungsb .
, " pp. 173 , 174 ( 1874 ) .
1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
431 altitude is a little lower than the Hacienda of Antisana* ( 13,300 feet ) , and so , if the indication of direction be correctly given , cannot be so near as it to the summit .
The specimen is a rather compact cream-coloured rock , at first sight not unlike one of the South Tyrol dolomites , but slightly vesicular in places , and spotted here and there with pale yellow sulphur .
It is evidently a volcanic rock from the vicinity of fumaroles which deposit sulphur , and presents the usual aspect of a trachyte which has been thus treated .
From the appearance of the rock , and a certain resemblance to one of those described , from Quebrada de Urcucuy , I should think it probable it had once been a pitchstone .
A specimen is labelled J DelNevado Pic 0 , principio del Arenal ; the snowy peak " and the " sandy plain " of Antisana are localities unknown to Mr. Whymper .
The rock is subvitreous , dark in colour with slightly redder streaks , and numerous scattered crystals of white felspar , commonly not more than about 0*1 inch long , but now and then twice or thrice as large .
In the earliest stage of consolidation are ( 1 ) plagioclase felspar ( probably in part at least labradorite ) , sometimes irregular in external form , often crowded with glass cavities , having fixed brownish bubbles , with microliths of augite ( ?
) , and with opacite ; ( 2 ) augite ; ( 3 ) very characteristic crystals of hypersthene ; ( 4 ) granules of iron oxide and a few scales of iron glance .
The rock has a glassy base , but this is crowded with lath-shaped felspar microliths ( plagioclase ) , and in most parts is rendered almost opaque by dusty opacite and ferrite , the redder streaks being the more transparent parts , in which a glass , now clear , now brown , may be distinguished .
The rock is a hyperstheniferous augite-andesite .
The locality of the next specimen , labelled Guspide del Achupallas Lado 0 .
del Antisana , is also unknown to Mr. Whymper .
The rock has a deader lustre , and more scoriaceous aspect than the last described , and contains greater crystals of whitish felspar , their diameter being sometimes fully 0'3 inch .
Under the microscope the larger of these are seen to contain glass enclosures and other microliths , and are probably labradorite ; the smaller , which are more lath-shaped , agree better in their extinctions with oligoclase .
There is a fair amount of well characterised brown mica and of hornblende , both brown and pale green varieties , with some granules of the latter or possibly of augite , and some grains of iron oxide .
There is a clear glassy base , * Reputed to be the highest farm in Ecuador .
" It is situated on the western slopes of Antisana , in a cheerless situation , without a tree in sight , and is enveloped in fog the greater part of the year .
The lower slopes of Antisana are of immense length and very devoid of character on this side .
The upper 4,000 feet of the western side of Antisana is almost entirely covered by glacier .
The nearest to the hacienda ends at an elevation of 15,295 feet .
" ( E. W. ) 432 Prof. T. G. JBonney .
On [ Mar. 13 bat it is crowded with microliths of felspar , of a pyroxenic mineral of brown mica , ferrite , \amp ; c. The rock is thus a mica-hornblende* andesite .
The last specimen is labelled del chusa longo .
It is a dark grey vesicular rock , the proportion of solid to cavity being about two to one .
The cavities commonly are not more than 0'2 inch in longest diameter , irregular in form , slightly drawn out in one direction , and coated with brown iron oxide .
The rock is compact in structure , with a general resemblance to the matrix of the last described , but contains only very minute crystals of whitish felspar , rather irregular in form , and hardly more than 0*05 inch in diameter .
It is no doubt an andesite , and is not unlike some of the scoriaceous varieties of that rock which are obtained from the Auvergne volcanoes .
I have not thought it necessary to examine it with the microscope .
The remaining ten specimens brought back by Mr. Whymper are all representative of the highest part of Antisana .
They were collected from the upper part of a moraine , by the side of which he encamped for the night , at an elevation of about 16,000 feet above the sea , or 3,300 below the actual summit .
The materials of this moraine are derived from several rather small crags of rock which here and there crop out from the snowy slopes above .
None of them were touched by Mi* .
Whymper during his ascent on the following day , for they are not numerous and are generally in inaccessible positions .
He was careful to bring a specimen of every marked variety which caught his eye , so that the series is probably a fair representation of the rocks which constitute the Peak of Antisana .
Of these specimens ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are vesicular rocks of a dull reddish colour , no doubt scoriaceous forms of a rock closely allied in composition to ( 4 ) and other dark varieties described below .
( 3 ) is a tuff , consisting of a fine yellowish paste , in which are numerous fragments up to the size of a small nut of a slightly vesicular , subvitreous , blackish rock , evidently closely allied to the next mentioned .
( 4 ) is a blackish subvitreous rock , containing glassy-looking felspar crystals up to about 0'2 inch diameter .
A few minute vesicles are present .
The microscopic description is given below .
( 5 .
) A very similar rock , a little lighter in colour , also described more fully below .
( 6 .
) Closely allied to the last , but paler , probably a little more decomposed .
( 7 .
) A dark compact rock , with some small crystals of felspar ; very like the specimen from Antisanilla .
( 8 .
) A compact blackish rock , mottled with small spots of dull gray , in the inner part of which a small vesicle may be seen ; a very few crystals of felspar , not exceeding 01 inch diameter , are visible ; its microscopic structure is described below .
( 9 .
) A rather vitreous , slightly vesicular , rock , a fluidal structure being indicated by reddish and blackish layers , containing crystals of a whitish felspar , rarely exceeding 0'1 inch in diameter .
The microscopic structure is described below .
( 10 .
) A large fragment 1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
438 of dull reddish-gray not very vesicular scoria , probably lithologically in close alliance with ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
The following is a description of the microscopic structure of No. ( 4 ) .
In the earlier stage of consolidation are ( a ) felspar crystals , probably in great part labradorite .
The enclosures are .
frequently variable in nature , quantity , and arrangement .
Sometimes their disposition is zonal and external , sometimes it is central .
Among these enclosures are pale green belonites ( ?
hornblende ) , colourless belonites , pieces of brown glass , often abundant , containing gas cavities and crystallites of magnetite , cavities containing bubbles , which occupy one-sixth or one-seventh of the whole space .
The exteriors of the crystals are frequently broken-looking or corroded .
A pyroxenic constituent , of which some is certainly augite , but a part.(the smaller ) probably hypersthene .
The former rather frequently contains enclosures ; among them are magnetite and grains of a slightly irregular oval outline , sometimes nearly 0*003 inch diameter , occasionally associated with gas cavities ( ?
felspar ) , ( c ) Grains of iron oxide , probably magnetite .
The part of later consolidation is a pale brownish glass , speckled with opacite and crowded with acicular microliths , six or seven times as long as broad , which generally do not exceed 0*001 inch long .
These are colourless and probably to a large extent felspar .
No. ( 5 ) differs from the last rock but little in its microscopic structure ; it has a rather clearer ground-mass and perhaps not quite so many granules of black iron oxide .
The crystals of felspar are similar , but there is also a large number of well-formed lath-shaped crystals , measuring in longer diameter above 0*01 inch .
Two varieties of augite , a greenish and a brownish , are present , together with a little of the greenish mineral which , as it has an orthorhombic extinction , I refer to hypersthene .
Microscopic examination of ( 8 ) shows if to be not materially different from ( 4 ) , except for the presence of the more decomposed spots , mentioned above .
The glassy base is perhaps a shade more colourless .
Both augite and hypersthene are present .
No. ( 9 .
) In the first stage of consolidation we have rather numerous felspar crystals , with the usual variable enclosures\#151 ; glass cavities with fixed bubbles , microliths , nearly all of which exhibit the characteristic twinning of plagioclase , though one or two show Carlsbad twinning and may be orthoclase .
The former usually extinguish at moderately large angles , ranging from rather less than 10 ' to more than 20 ' with the twin-plane .
In one , where the twinning is sharply defined , the extinctions are 21 ' and 30 ' respectively on either side of the twin-plane .
It is therefore probable that these crystals are neither albite nor oligoclase .
The pyroxenic constituent appears , as above , to be of more than one kind .
The most abundant is a brownish , rather dichroic mineral , black bordered , and sometimes rather " dirty , " owing to inclusions .
In colour and general aspect it more resembles Prof. F. Elgar .
On Variation of [ Mar. 13 , hornblende , but ' the angles of cleavage ( which , however , is in no case very well defined ) and of extinction make it more probable that the mineral is augite .
There are two or three crystals of a slightly greenish colour , which show the characteristic form and cleavage of angite , and one which in all respects better agrees with hypersthene .
The ground-mass consists of fairly numerous , lath-shaped crystallites of a plagioclastic felspar , prisms of augite ( ?
) , often darkened with ferrite , granules of opacite and ferrite , and possibly in some cases flakes of mica .
These are scattered in what may be a glassy base , but it is so densely crowded with extremely minute acicular crystallites ( colourless , probably felspar ) , and with a minute dust ( ferrite in the browner streaks , opacite in the darker ) that , as the slide is rather thicker than .usual , I cannot be quite sure .
Although , to the unaided eye , and even when examined with low powers , this rock appears to differ considerably from ( 5 ) and ( 8 ) , yet with high powers the resemblance becomes much closer , so that we may , I think , confidently refer it to the same group , and regard it as merely a more slaggy variety .
It follows , then , from the above examination that the rocks which form the actual peak of Antisana are augite-andesites , containing at any rate occasionally hypersthene , and to the same group belongs , though perhaps it is slightly more basic , the rock of the great lava stream which has descended to Antisanilla , while the pitchstones of Quebrada de Urcucuy must be representatives of a group with a higher percentage of silica , i.e. , rhyolites or dacites , probably the former .
IV .
" The Variation of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships .
" By F. Elgar , Professor of Naval Architecture in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 6 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) Of all the properties possessed by a ship none is more vital to her safety and efficiency than that of stability .
At the same time none is dependent for its existence and amount upon so many or such diverse and variable circumstances as it .
The stability of a ship , both as regards moment and range , is affected not only by the position of her centre of gravity , which largely depends upon stowage , but also by draught of water .
If the centre of gravity be kept fixed in position at various draughts of water , the stability will still vary very considerably with the draught , and often in a manner that contains elements of danger .
The usual practice in investigating a ship 's stability is to calculate a curve of metacentres , and one or more curves of stability at certain

