I. " On the Resin of the Ficus rubiginosa , and a new Homlo logue of Benzylic Alcohol .
" By WARREN DE LA RUE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and HUGO MfILLER , Ph. D. , F.C.S. Communicated by Mr. DE LA RUE .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the authors give an account of a new alcohol homologous with benzylic alcohol ( C , 11H8 02 ) which they have found occurring in the state of a natural acetic ether in the exudation from an Australian plant known as the Ficus rubiginosa .
This acetic ether , for which they propose the name of Acetate of Sycoceryl , constitutes about 14 per cent. of the crude resin ; the reniainder consisting principally of an amorphous resin which they name Sycoretin .
The different degree of solubility of the various constitulents in alcohol , afforded the means of the separation of the onie from the other ; none of them ple~sent any remarkable properties except the new ether ; so that the authors have devoted their attention mainly to the working oult of the chemical relations of this substance .
Acetate of sycoceryl , having very characteristic properties , could be readily obtained in beautiful crystals ; but some difficulty occurred in obtaining it absolutely pure , on account of the presence of a parasitical body which accompanied it constantly in solution , and always crystallized upon it .
At last meanis were fournd of removing the latter substance by dissolving out the acetate of sycoceryl with ether .
The per-centage composition of this parasitical body was found to be Carbon.76 56 Hlydrogen .
1230 Oxygen. .
1124 but it existed in too small a quiantity to admit of its true chemical relations being made ouit .
Acetate of sycoceryl gave on analysis the following per-centages as the m-neani result of two accordant analyses : Carbon.7909 hIydrogen .
1028 Oxygen .
10 63 These numbers agree well with those required by the formula C40 1132 04 based upon experimental evidence .
Acetate of sycocervl , when acted upon by sodium-alcohol , yielded acetic acid and a beautiful crystalline body resembling caffeine or asbestos ; this proved to be a new member of the benzylic alcohol series having the composition C30 1130 O ?
which requires the following per-centage quantities : Mean of two analyses .
Carbo.i 82-44 82'39 Hydrogen ... ... . .
1145 1138 Oxygen .
611 6-23 The authors , by acting with chloride of benzoyl on sycocerylic alcohol , obtained the corresponding benzoate of sycoceryl ; and by employing chloride of othyl ( acetyle ) , have prepared the acetate of sycoceryl which was identical with the original crystalline constituent of the resin .
By treating sycocerylic alcohol with nitric acid , an acid was procured which appears to be sycocerylic acid .
The products of the actionl of chroinic acid oi sycocerylic alcolhol , were a white crystallinie nieutral substance and a body crystallizing in large flat prisms .
The latter appears to be the sycocerylic aldehyde .

