Observations About Shining Worms in Oysters .
These Observations occur in the French journal of April 12 .
1666 .
in two letters , written by M. Auzout to M. Dela Voye ; whereof the substance may be reduced to the following particulars .
1 .
That M. Dela Voye having observed , as he thought , some shining Worms in Oysters ; M. Auzout , being made acquainted with it , did first conceive , they were not Worms ( unless they were crushed ones ) that shined , as having not been able then to discern any parts of a Worm ; but only some shining clammy moisture ; which appeared indeed like a little Star of a bluish colour , and stuck to the Oyster-shell ; being drawn out , shone in the Air its whole length ( which was about four or five lines , ) and when put upon the Observers hand continued to shine there for some time .
2 .
That M. Auzout afterwards , causing more than 20 .
dozen of Oysters to be opened at Candle-light , really saw , in the dark , such shining worms in them ; and those of three sorts .
One sort was whitish , having 24 .
or 25 .
feet on each side , forked ; a black speck on one side of the head ( taken by him for a Chrystallin ) &amp; the back`like an Eel , stripped off her skin .
The second , red , and resembling the common Glowworms , found at Land , with folds upon their backs , and feet like the former ; and with a nose like that of a dog , and one eye in the head .
The third sort was speckled , having a head like that of a Sole , with many tufts of whitish hair on the sides of it , 3 .
That , besides these , the Observer saw some much bigger , that were grayish , with a big head , and two horns on it , like those of a Snayl , and with 7 .
or 8 .
whitish feet , but these , though kept by him in the night , shined not .
4 .
That the two first sorts are made of a matter easily resoluble , the least shaking or touch turning them into a viscous and aqueous matter ; which falling from the shelt stuck to the Observers fingers , and shone there for the sp. c of 20 .
seconds : and if any little part of this matter , by strongly shaking the shell , did fall to the ground , it appeared like a little piece of a flaming Brimstone ; and when shaken off nimbly , it became like a small shining Line , which was dissipated before it came to the ground .
5 .
That this shining matter was of different colour ; some , whitish , some , reddish ; but yet that they afforded both , a light which appeared a violet to his eye .
6 .
That it is very hard to examine these worms entire ( especially the white ones ) because that at the least touch they doe burst , and resolve into a glutinous moisture ; whence also if it were not for their feet , that are discovered in their matter , none would judge them to be Worms .
7 .
That among those , which be observed , he saw two more firm , than the rest , which shone all over ; and when they fell from the Oyster , twinkled like a great star , shining strongly , and emitting rays of a violet-light by turns , for the space , ( as touch't above ) of 20 .
seconds .
Which Scintillation the Observer imputes to this , that those worms being alive , and sometimes raising their head , sometimes their tail , like a Carpe , the light increased and lessened accordingly ; seeing that , when they shone not , he did , viewing them by a Candle , find them dead .
8 .
That forcibly shaking the Oyster-shells in the dark , he sometimes saw the whole shell full of lights , now and then as big as a fingers end ; and abundance of this clammy matter , both red and white , ( which he judges to have been Worms ) burst in their holes .
9 .
That in the shaking he saw all the Communications of these little Verminulous holes , like to the hole of Worms in Wood .
10 .
That in more than 20 dozen of Oysters he shook no shell ( 10 .
or 12 .
excepted ) but it emitted light : And found some of this light in sixteen of the Oysters themselves .
11 .
That this light occurs more frequently in big , than small Oysters ; in those that are pierced by the Worm , oftner , than in those that are not , and rather upon the Convex-side , than the other ; and more in fresh ones , than in the stale .
12 .
That having somewhat scaled the Convex-side of the shell , and discovered the Communication of the holes , wherein the often-mention 'd viscous moisture , that has any form of insects , is found ; he smelt a scent , that was like the water of a squeezed Oyster .
13 .
That the Worms give no light , when irritated , but if they do , the light lasts but a very little time , whereas that which appears in those , that were not angred before , continues a great while ; the Observer affirming to have kept of it above 2 hours .
So far the Journal des Scavans ; which intimates withal , that if the Observers had had better Microscopes , they could have better examined this matter .
But since the curious here in England are so well furnish with good ones , it is hoped , that they will employ some of them for further and more minute Observations of these Worms ; it being a matter , which , joined with other Observations , already made by some excellent persons here , ( especially Mr. Boyle ) upon this subject of Light , may prove very luciferous to the doctrine of it , so much yet in the dark .

