]\gt ; Lastly , the physiological prop rties of daboia poison undergo change by its being heated to C. in solution , whereas poison remains unaltered .
II .
' On Pendent Drops By A. M. WORTHINGTON , M.A. municated by Professor B. STEWART , F.R.S. May lb , 1881 .
About years ago I was led to examine the forms of pendent of liquid by a method of great simplicity , which seems capable being used with considerable accuracy for determining the value off the surface tension .
Previous observers , so far as I am aware , have observed only weight of drops which fall , and , making this the basis of calculation , have endeavoured to find the influence on the of such drops , of the rate of influx of ]iquid , shape of terminal , as in the case of Dr. F. Guthrie , to ascertain the value of the surface tension of liquid as in the case of Professor Quincke and M. Dupre .
Under no circumstances , however , is the weight of the drop which falls exactly the weight of the volume which it is necessary to know in order to ascertain the value of the surface tension , though under certain circumstances it approximates thereto .
Hence we find that Prof. Qnincke rejects this method of finding the tension , or recommends it only lvhere other methods fail ; S albeit all his results obtained by this method are vitiated by an assumption to which I shall have occasion to draw attention .
The principle of the method which I will now describe is ] to project a magnified image a drop pendent from a cylindrical tube on to a jreen , and there to trace its outline at any required stage of its development .
A vertical cylindrical glass tube , , whose Iower end is ground truly flat and with a sharp edge , communicates by means of a bulb or wider tube , , and a piece of india-rubber or lead tubing , , with an air-tight syringe , , some 10 or 12 feet away .
For the usual syrin .
piston a cup of mercury , Fi , is substituted , which can be gradually * ' ' On Drops By Dr. F. Guthrie .
" " Proc : Roy .
@oc vol. 13 , p. 444 .
" " Poggendorff 's Annalen vol. cxxxv , p. 621 .
" " Phil. Mag 1869 .
1 " " Theory Mecanique de la Chaleur p. 332 .
S , p. 637 , S12 .
A T Proc. Soc. Vol. ! .
cm no cm TJrops .
) raised or lowered by a rack and pinion-screw , so as to perfectly air-tight piston .
By means of an lamp , , whose light is condensed by the lens , a magnified image of the end of the tube is thrown by the lens , upon a piece of whitc paper , I , fixed on the wall of the room nenr the syringe .
is a plate-glass cell filled with water to keep off the heat of the lanlp .
A supply of the liquid to be observed is up into the bulb or wide tube , by means of the syringe , or more eniently by metUlS an india-rubber bulb , , interposed for the purpose betweon The tube A is then carefully wiped on the outsidc linell cloth , and the observer standing by the paper dually expels the liquid by raising the cury cup , a drop is extruded the whole of the bottom of the tube , tho outline of hich he traces on the white paper with a finely-pointed lend pencil , at any of which he desires a record , up to the of rnpture .
tracing affords all the information necessary the alue of the surface tension , of from the ratio of the meter of the tube to thttt of its on the screen .
As the first few drops expelled nre npt not to the wholo of the of the tube thoroughly , and thercforc to rnth r ] ] ) than those which follow , it is well to Jet one or fall off kiug a tracing if a series of outlines at diff .cquil c The tube A call be exchanged at pleasurc of diameters , and when it is wished to observe of drop o liquid pcndent in another , the lattcr is placed in ccll parallel sides , and the tube A dips into it .
The ures of the Plate tracings ( reduced ( )nc-h ) way with different liquids and tubes of riotlS d , and XXX11 .
The short horizontal line below the drop shows the maximum depth attained before rupture , and the enclosed by the last outline that could be drawn correctly , and the one which is nearest the limit of stability is shaded for the sake of distinctness .
The dotted generally the innermost , shows the amount of liquid which remained adhering to the tube after the separation of the lower portion .
It may be worth while to mention here that where the liquid wets the whole of the base of the tube the form and dimensions of the line were found to depend on the external and not at all on the internal diameter of the tube .
One of the first points that strikes anyone inspecting these figures is , that the depth attained urprisingly little with the diameter of the tube .
An early series of observations on this point made with insufficient magnffication showed so slight a variation that I was led to suppose that the maximum depth might really be constant and independent of size of the tube , and to seek for an empirical formula involving only sical constants of ths liquid to express this depth .
* Greater magnification , however , shows that this is not the case ; that the maximum depth diminishes on the whole with the size of the tube , but is rather less in a drop pendent from a plane surface of indefinite extent tham in one hanging from a tube just narrow enough for the drop to attach itself at the edge .
Another point attracts immediate attention is , that whereas the form of drops of different liquids hangin from the same tubes differs materially compare , for example , water and turpentine ) , yet drops of ( say ) turpentine hanging from narrow tubes are similar in form to water drops hanging from wider tubes .
That this would be the case has been already shown from theoretical considerations by M. Dupre , who has also pointed out the ratio between the diameters of the tubes that corresponds to complete similarity of the drop form for two different liquids .
very close approximation is given the formula\mdash ; Maximum depth was suggested by thoe equation to the generating curve .
" " Theory Mecaniqu ' , de la Chaleur p. 329 .
The following method of finding the ratio of tube-diameters , necessary for the symmetry of drops of different liquids , being rather simpler in fol.m than that given by M. Dupre , my be welcx ) to some readers .
1881 .
] On Pendent Drops .
It will be observed that with wide tubes the inclination which extreme element of the curve makes with the horizontal of the tube gradually increases as the drop is expelled , till it separates ; but with narrower tubes it passes through a maximum value , which may be greater than , after which it diminishes again .
Professor Quincke has shown that the angle of colltact between a given liquid and solid in .
is definite and constant .
This , however , Taking the vertex as origin , and axis of revolution as the axis of , the equations to the generating curves of the two liquids may be written \mdash ; . . . . .
( ) , . . .
( ) , where and are the surface tensions .
and are the principal radu of curvature at point , and are the radu of curvature at the and are the densities of the liquids .
If these curves are symmetrical , ratio between all ponding lines ]llust the same , and remembering that and , the rad of the curvature due to tion , are the normals drawn from the curve to the axis , and thet.cfore COl.responding lines in the plane of the paper , we have\mdash ; whence , wl.iting , \amp ; c. , in ( i ) , and dividing by ( ii ) , we or ence $0r The empirical formula of the note to page 364 contains the experimental verilication of this result , and shows in addition that the limit of stability is reached at corresponding stages by drops that develop similarly , or this limit does not depend on the absolute dimensions of the curve .
M. Dupre 's that this will be case seems to me hardly legitimate .
M. Dupre makes extremely sagacious use of relave cight of drops } } forms while hanging are similar , for finding the surface tension .
My however , go to show that the depths of residual liquid not , usuaUy proportional to the other linear dimensions , that any such use is not to lead to l.csults that more than approximatcly correct .
constancy of the real angle of contact accounts for the fact that if a very narrow tube be used , the drop will spread up it on the outside before separating .
As soon as the angle between the extreme element of the curve and the vertical side of the tubs is equal to this definite angle of contact the spread will take place .
It will be noticed , especially with wide tubes , that the base of the drop suffers but the change after a certain point .
The concavity , however , of the upper portion is seen to deepen before the liquid separates , but the drop remains suspended after this deepening has begun .
It is very difficulb to tell precisely where separation takes place , since it is accomplished generally with great rapidity , but I am inclined to think that it occurs at the place of greatest concavity .
Sometimes the small secondary drop ( observed by Dr. Guthrie ) is seen bo follow the main drop .
This was very noticeable in the case of water dropping through petroleum , where separation is eifected comparatively slowIy .
The point at which this small drop is first seen serves , in this case , to determine fairly accurately the place of separation .
There can be no doubt that this secondary drop is due to the spontaneous segmentation of the cylindrical neck of liquid , which joins the upper and lower portions up to the last moment before complete separation takes place ; and that it is the same phenomenon thab was first observed and explained by Mr. Plateau in his experiments on cylinders of mercury .
* It is obvious that if drops are extruded in rapid succession there will be a considerable influx of liquid through this residual neck into the lower portion after it has begun to separate , and that the drops which fall will this score be larger .
Since , however , the velocity of the inflowing liquid will produce a pressure on the lower portion of the drop , tending to hasten separation , it is to be expected that a definite increase in the of influx will produce a greater eflect on the size of the drop which falls off when the rate of dropping is slow than when it is fast .
These considerations go far to explain the results of Dr. Guthrie 's experiments on the influence of the rate of dropping on the drop size .
It is urther evident that an influx of liquid , after separation has begun , only complicates the phenomenon , and that it is from a study of the curve , when the influx is zero , that we are most likely to obtain an insight the manner and cause of separation .
* ' ' Statique rimentale des Liquides 1881 .
] On Pendent Drops .
367 Perhaps a statement of the physical circumstances under which the drop develops and separates , in the light of the information afforded by the tracings , may not be out of place here .
The cohesion of a liquid , as is well known , manifests itself in a uniform internalcompression ( A ) which may conveniently be regarded as transmitted the surface , and , in addition , a surface tension ( T ) which produces a further pressure proportional , any point of the surface , to the sum of the reciprocals of the principal radii of curture at that point , so that the total pressure at any point of the surface may be written , .
The value of the last term may be positive or negative , according to the nature of the curvature , but the total pressure must always be positive , indeed the term A is always relatively very great .
The surface acts in many like a membrane stretched unlformly in all directions , and in the case of a pendent drop , the liquid within may be regarded as sustained by the tension of this skin .
On ordinary hydrostatic principles the pressure must be the same at all points in the same horizontal plane , from which condition the equation to the generating curve is at once obtained\mdash ; where the axes are those of the figure , the weight of the unit volnme of the liquid , and a constant expressing the pressure due to curvature at the base of the drop where FIG. 2 .
If we take the of curvature in the plane of paper as Mr. A. M. Wortbington .
[ June then is the radius of the curvature due to revolution round the axis of , and is equal to the normal It is possible to obtain , by inspection of the curve , some notion of the value of the total curvature as measured by to which the pressure is proportional .
The length of the normal is of course capable of exact measurement , while that of the radius of curvature may be obtained approximately by striking the circle of curvature .
At a point of recurvature , , and the normal alone determinea the pressure .
rf the reader will in this way , in one of the figures , the value of the total curvature from the vertex of the drop to the base of the1 tube at different stages of extrusion , and will , in the case of some one liquid , compare the final values attained before separation , when tubes of different diameters are used , he will perceive that , before the drop attained its maximum size , the tension of the surface seems to press the contained liquid against the end of the tube .
But , as the drop increases in size , th .
tension is more and more exerted in supporting the additional weight of liquid , and this pressure at the end of the tube diminishes ; and that this pressure at the base , when the drop separates , is greater with small tubes than with wide ones , and is obviously still positive in the case of water hanging from the narrower tubes .
But , with a wide tube , the final value of the total curvature that is .
attained before rupture is obviously less than with a narrow by the methods of measurement , which will be described in the ib was found that , as the diameter of the tube is increased , the final value of the curvature becomes gradually smaller , zero , and then increasingly negative , and here the term A in the expression for the pressure gives meanin to the whole expression which would otherwise be negative and meaningless .
Up to the point at which the curvature at the base is greater than everything would have gone on the same , even though this term were non-existent , tension of the surface for the support of the drop ; but , at this point , the tension ceases to be sufficient , and is aided by the true internal cohesion of layer for layer of the and the adhesion of each unit of area of the liquid for the solid base * This is only mathematically , not , conceivable .
is really a fumction of , and cease to exist with it .
1881 .
] On Pendent with which it is in contact .
The extent to which this portion of the cohesion is called into play in sustalnlng the we rop , ht of the dro measured by the amount of negative curvature above.me ntioned .
Direct evidence of this negative curvature is easily obtalne aowall ing a drop to hang from the en of an open vertlc.al tube of narrow bore , into which a supply of liquid is led by a fine capillary thread ; as the drop grows the head of liquid supported may be observed to diminish .
, however , to the smallness of the change , the slowness with which the meniscus in a fine tube adjusts itself , and the liability to alteration of the surface tension of the drop long exposure , the method cannot be used with measuring the curvature .
It is important , however , to notice that there is not any physical breach of continuity , or critical point reached , when the pressure at the base becomes zero or negative , which can influence the separation of the drop .
For there is no reason to suppose that the s.mall negat ve pressure finally attained at the base of the drop , varymg as it does with the diameter of the tube , represents any physical limit of the cohesio1l , which is probably very great .
Hence , it is clear that the separation of the drop is to be attributed to the surface becoming unstable for small oscillations , rather than to the cohesion being in any true sense overcome by the force of and that the cleavage of the drop is analogous to the cleavage of the unduloid or cylinder first studied experimentally by M. Plateau .
It is necessary to insist on this point , for it has been apparently misconceived by Professor Quincke , who has endeavoured to deduce the value of the tension by equating the weight of the drop which falls to the tension multiplied by the circumference of the tube 01 cylinder from which it hangs , the latter being taken so small that ths drop hangs with the uppermost element of the liquid vertical .
( See fig. 3 .
) The nature of his proceeding will be best seen from the following quotation .
* FIG. 3 .
*From { paper communicated to the Royal Academy of Sciences Bcrlin , May 28 , 1868 , and translated in " " Phil. Mag 1869 , by Professor Jack .
same pressure is found the terior fluid at the mouth of the pipe as in a level fluid surface " " The drop goes on increasing till , or till the highest element of the fluid is vertical , and then falls off .
' ' If the radius of the cylinder on which the drop is formed be very small , the weight of the portion of the fluid which remains hanging may be neglected , and the weight of the portion of the drop which falls may be treated as the in equation ( 7 ) .
He is here speaking of a drop pendent from a tube so small that it wets the outside and hangs as in fig. 3 .
It is , however , obvious that , under such circumstances , the surface of the liquid , where vertical , shares the curvature of the tube , and that the equation of equilib1ium shouId be pressure on the area of the section of dius or In other words , Professor Quincke 's value of the tension is precisely half what it ought to be .
Hence , the very low value that he obtains for the surface tension of water by this method , 0548 as compared with08253 by other methods .
He applies the same equation to Professor Guthrie 's experimental data , although indeed it is not applicable to the larger terminals used by the latter , so that the approximate agreement of the results with those obtained by other methods is really due to a fortuitous cancelling of errors .
* I will now explain the manner in which the tracing may be used for evaluating the pressure at the base , and determining the value of the tension .
It is convenient to assume first that this pressure is zero , then to introduce in the value of the correction which is found from an examination of the curve to be necessary .
Assuming then that the pressure at the base is zero , it is evident that if any horizontal section of the drop be made , the vertically resolved part of the surface tension across ths circumference of this section is equal to the weight of the portion of the drop below the section , plus the pressure of the head of liquid ching f the section to the bottom of the tube multiplied by the area of the section on which it acts .
* ' ' Pogg .
Ann vol. cxxxi , p. 137 .
1881 .
] On dent ) Thus if\mdash ; be the radius of the section , the inclination of the tangent to the axis of revoIution , the head ofliquid in centims. , the volume of the part below the section in .
centims. , the surface tension in grams per linear centim. , the weight in grams of 1 .
centim. of the liquid , then D. and were measured carefully with compasses and a millimetre scale , which could be read by estimation to tenths of millimetres , and was determined directly by the same means after drawing the tangent to the curve .
was obtained by dividing the area below the section into narrow horizontal strips , whose dimensions were measu ] with scale and compasses , and the volume of the solid generated by the revolution of each , considered as the frustum of a cone , was calculated .
It was found in practice that the bottom part of the rve is generally nearly circular that the best way is to strike the clrcle of which it , is the al.c , for other parts of the curve lines , ruled at a distance of 5 or 10 millims. apart ( when the magnification was about fifteen times linear ) , gave a sufficiently accurate approximation , it being impossible to distinguisb from straight lines the small portions of the curve cepted between each pair .
It was easy , by marking the depth , to take two or more indep.endent tr.acings at exactly the same stage of extrusion , and superpoSltlon of these showed very complete agreement , and gave dence .
the resuIt ; moreover , the symmetl.y of the tracing on .
the two sides of the axis affords a check on the accuracy of the drawlng .
The tangent is most easily drawn at a point of -curvature , or where the curvature in the plane of the paper is small ; on the other hand , an error in the value of increases in importance , as increases .
These considerations should influence the choice of sections .
Treating in this way the curve of a drop of olive oil hanging in air , the following values were obtained for the surface tension at tho different sections ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , and ( 4 ) , which are arranged in order of increasing area .
The discrepancy at once shows that the assumption of no pressure 372 Mr. A. M. Worthington .
[ June due to curvature at the base is wrong , and that the pressure is reality negative , and that each value of the tension requires to be diminished by correction which , being proportional in each case to the area of the section , will affect the higher values , the .
smaller least .
If we call the unknown pressure due to curvature at the base , and introduce this in the equation , it becomes or so that we have now four equations for determining and any two of which are sufficient .
Combining these equations by the method of least squares so as to obtain the most probable values of the unknown quantities , we get .
per square centim. , .
per linear centim. , and using these values to calculate the most probable values of the observed quantities .
\amp ; c. , we have Calculated .
Observed . . . . .
, 1940 . . . . . . . .
05688 . . . .
06588 It remains to observe that , as will appear in the table of the pressure due to curvature at the base was found to be negative even where the drop hung from a plane surface of indelinite extent which it wetted entirely .
It must be admitted that the surface here ( see fig. 1 , Plate 7 ) really passes into a continuous plane where the curvature , and consequently the due to curvature , is zero ; and that , nevertheless , at an indefinitely small distance this , the pressure due to curvature is undoubtedly negative .
On Pendent Drops .
373 .
1@81 .
] The explanation is , I think , to be found in the fact that the liquid film which wets the surface , is , by reason of the contact , a mo 1 dified condition , viscous and unable to transmit pressure like the rest of liquid.* The existence of such modified covering films seems to have been well established by Professor Quincke .
I have endeavoured to Iessen the labour of the volume of liquid supported by the tension at any section , by cutting out of uniform sheet of card the area by whose revolution round the axis this volume is generated .
The magnitude of this area was und by weighing , and the position of its centre of gravity by balanclng on a knife-edge , from which , by the well known " " Property of Guldinus the volume of the solid was at once obtained .
however , chiefly to the unequal tbickness of even the most uniform material , whether card or metal foil , that I could procure , the results obtained in this way were liable to differ from those obtained by the previously described method of ration by 1 per cont .
, so that the method cannot be recommended .
I have , however , retained 111 the following table the meastlre of obtained in this watel .
in a particular case , and have also inserted for comparison the values thu obtained at different sections of a chloroform drop .
The table contains the record of results obtained in the way descl'ibed .
In most cases a tube was used , the diameter of which is recorded , instead of a plane surface of indefinite extent , since it was found difficult to prevent the drop from gliding about and .
out of focus , when pendent the latter .
The temperature ( when l.ecorded ) is that indicated by a thermometer placed cIose to the drop .
The surface tension ( T ) is expressed in grams per Olive Oil ( density92129 ) .
Indefinite plane .
Temperature about C. Calculated .
Observed . . . . .
04940 . . . .
05181 . . . . . . . .
06538 sometimes seemed to me that the rest of the liquid started ont of is at a small but definite angle , of which I obtained the following mcasures in of turpentine hanging from a flat iron terminal , it wetted to an distance : mean " " Phil. Mag JuIIe , 1878 .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
[ Jun Alcohol ( density Diameter of tube centim. Temperature about C. Calculated .
Observed . . . . .
03415 . . . .
08583 . . . .
03834 Russian Turpentine ( density8679 ) .
Diameter of tube centim. Temperature about C. Calculated .
Obsel.ved . . . . .
040354 . . . .
042088 . . . .
045749 Chloroform ( density ) .
Diameter of tube .
Temperature about Drop No. 1 .
Calculated .
Observed . .
087113 . . . .
037354 . . . .
039239 . . . .
048644 Drop No. 2 .
Observed .
By weighing . . . . .
02921 . . . .
02949 . . . .
03005 . . . .
02958 . . . .
02965 On Pendent Drops .
difference between the values at different sections was Here mall that was neglected and the mean taken .
Water .
Diameter of tube centim. Temperature \mdash ; Calculated .
Diameter of tube centim. Temperature about C. Here the diflerence was so small that the correction neglccted and the mean taken\mdash ; saturated air .
Temperature about C. December 4 , 1880 .
Diameter of tube centim. Calculated .
Observed . . . . . . . . .
09648 . . . .
010001 ( continued ) .
Indefinite plane .
October 15 , 1880 .
Calculated .
Obscrved . . . . .
10142 . . . .
11023 . . . .
On Pendent Drops .
By weighing .
meter of tube9525 .
Temperature C. Calculated .
Observed . . . . .
07516 . . . .
07797 . . . .
07897 It will be lJat the values of for water vary very considerably .
Moreover , on no occasion have I ained so high a value as the mean 08253 deduced by Professor Quincke by the method of flat bubbles .
The agreement of the measures is in each case so close as to leave no doubt that the surface tension of liquid really differed considerably on different occasions .
I have at present no better explanation of this to oifer than the fact that the surface tension of water is particularJy liable to diminution by exposure to the impurities of the atmosphere .
To aid a comparison of the method with that of flat drops or bubbles , on which Professor Quincke seems chiefly to rely , I append a table giving the values of the tensions by the two methods in parallel columns .
is to be observed that the liquids used are often not quite the same , as is indicated by the difference of density .
The name of the observer is signified by the initial lstter .
Professor Quincke 's result in the case of water is the mean of measures ranging between 0800 and ; that for turpentine is the mean of eight ranging from to 0318 ; that for olive oil is the mean of seven , ranging from03617 to 04113 .
The method of flat drops and bubbles is , as he himself points out , only approximate , since the curvature to revolution is neglected , and is liable to give ilts that are rathcr too high .
Mr. A. J. Ellis .
On the Potential Radix .
377 1881 .
] The method which I am advocating is open to no such objection ; it is moreover rapid , allowing little time for the alteration by exposure of the surface under consideration , and it is independent of the very difficult determination of the contact angle of liquid and solid , which enters into some other methods .
At the same time the results are probably not so accurate as cou ld be obtained by the use of photography for recording the form of the drop .
I am in hopes of obtaining , by its means , results which may , in some measu .
, serve to verify the fundamental assumptions of the theory on which the value of the so-called surface tension is calculate Of the phenomena , to which I have ventured incidentally to call attention , that of the approximate constancy of the drop-depth , requires closer investigation than I have been le to glve it , as seems to oifer a very satisfactory mcans of obtalnlng a first approximat on the value of the surface tension .
In all rlments on this subject the scrupulous cleanliness so absolutely necessary renders progress slower than many would suppose , which is my excuse for presenting an investigation , which I trust ma , be found useful , though obviously incomplete .
III .
" " Postscript to the Chronological Summary of Methods of Computing Logarithms in my Paper on the Potential Radix By ALEXANDER J. ELLIS , B.A. , F.R.S. , F. S.A. Received May 18 , 1881 .
After the publication of my " " Chronological Summary of Methods of Computing Logarithms in the " " Proceedings\ldquo ; for 3rd February , 1881 ( vol. 31 , pp. 401-407 ) , Mr. Isaac , F.R.S. , kindly pointed out to me an almost unknown pamphlet by George Atwood , F.R.S. , inventor of " " Atwood 's Machine which he informs me not mentioned even by Dr. Thomas Young , in his account of Atwood .
A copy of the pamphlet is in the library of the Royal Astronomical Society , and at the request of Mr. Peter Gray , F.R.A.S. , was kindly lent to me for inspection .
The following account of this important and little known work should be inserted in my summary , on p. 403 , between 1771 , Flower , and 1802 , :\mdash ; 1786 .
Ahwood , George , ssay on the Arithmetic of Factors , applied to rious computations which occur in the practice of numbers This is essentially a method , when any number A is given , of finding factors , , such that being very nearly , of the form or , and being of the form means successive zeroes , as in the notation of my

