176 Messrs. Boyce and Warrington .
Anatomy and green glow , on disconnecting the induction coil and magnetising the electrodes , a flash of white light was observed within the tube , and irregular green splashes momentarily made their appearance upon the glass .
In conclusion , I desire to offer my thanks to Dr. Silvanus P. Thompson , F.R.S. , for kindly permitting me to use the Tesla apparatus at his laboratory , and for the interest he has taken in the progress of these experiments .
" Observations on the Anatomy , Physiology , and Degenerations of the Nervous System of the Bird .
" By B. Boyce and W. B. Warrington .
Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 7 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) In this research the modern methods of investigating the course of tracts and their degeneration in the central nervous system have been used .
The previous literature of the subject is scanty .
Bumm first gave an account of the various tracts in the brain , and the histological side has been and is still being worked out by Brandis .
Valuable information is given by Edinger in his \#163 ; Vorlesungen , ' and quite recently the Marchi method has been used and the results obtained described by Wiener and Miinzer , Wallenberg and Fried-lander .
The anatomy has been studied by sections made in the three planes and stained by the Weigert and Nissl methods , and by observing the course of the degenerated fibres following various lesions , staining by Marchi 's fluid .
In the brain of the Bird the cortex of higher animals is represented by a thin pallial sheet of grey matter , forming the mesial and dorsal boundary of the narrow ventricle , and gradually losing itself on the lateral aspect of the hemisphere .
Its substance is composed of oval , rather large cells , grouped into clusters , and it contains the fibres of an important tract , called by Edinger the Tr. septomesencephalicus , and by us alluded to as the pallial tract .
The hemispheres themselves correspond to basal ganglia ; posteriorly they expand laterally into the large occipital lobes .
Their substance contains cells resembling those found in the pallium , and which cannot be differentiated distinctly into definite regions .
The hemispheres are connected with the thalamus by a constriction of their substance , forming an isthmus on either side , from which the thalamus in transverse section is seen suspended as a triangular shaped body .
Physiology of the Central Nervous System of the Bird .
177 The other prominent features are the large optic lobes , on the surface of which shining white fibres can be seen , and also the excessive size of the optic tracts , the diameter of which is equal to that of the spinal cord in the dorsal region .
The general plan of the tracts of the central nervous system is as follows:\#151 ; I. From the hemispheres tracts arise which undergo a descending degeneration , and terminate in the thalamic and mesencephalic region .
There is no direct connection of the cerebral hemispheres with the spinal cord .
II .
A well marked tract arises in the mesencephalon , undergoes an ascending degeneration , and can be found to terminate in the substance of the hemisphere .
III .
The mesencephalon is the site of a complex system of fibres , which can be grouped as follows :\#151 ; ( a ) The ascending tract to the hemispheres alluded to above ( Tr. mesencephalicus striatus ) .
( I3 ) Arciform fibres decussating in the middle line and reaching downwards into the spinal cord ( Forel 's and Meynert 's fountain decussation ) .
( 7 ) The optic tracts and various commissural fibres connected with this .
( 8 ) A tract originally described by Perlia , and called by him the median optic bundle .
This tract can be well seen after all lesions involving the optic lobes as a well defined degenerate bundle , situated on the inner side of the dorsal aspect of the optic tract , and ending in the ganglion isthmi , which is situated in the optic lobe at the junction of that body with the cerebellum and pons .
Peripherally , Wallenberg found that it could be traced to the ganglion layer of the retina of the opposite eye , and Perlia , in his original description , observed the tract as a degenerated bundle found after enucleation of an eye .
IV .
The commissural system , including\#151 ; ( a ) The anterior commissure .
( / ?
) The posterior commissure .
( 7 ) The commissure of the roof of the aqueduct ( lamina commissuralis mesencephali ) which contains the large cells thought to be the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminus .
( 8 ) The small pallia !
commissure .
Hippocampal commissure of Elliot Smith ; commissura anterior et posterior pallii of Edinger .
V. The tracts of the spinal cord , which have broadly the usual ascending and descending course .
178 Anatomy and Physiology of Nervous System of the Bird .
Without entering into detail , some points in connection with the tracts of the cerebral hemisphere should be mentioned .
( i ) The Tr. septomesencephalicus forms a prominent feature on the mesial wall of the hemisphere , where it is seen as a fan-shaped expansion of white fibres .
It rapidly converges to a well defined bundle , which turns laterally , and is seen on the ventral aspect of the brain as a band of fibres situated between the optic lobes and hemispheres .
Sections show that the anterior lobe of the brain contributes to its formation , and that it terminates in the epithalamic region .
Whilst the main mass of its fibres pass in front of the anterior commissure , a distinct band passes posteriorly to that commissure to end in the region of the ganglion habendulae .
This part represents the fornix .
It also gives origin to fibres of the " pallial " commissure , and is in connection with the optic tract by a well defined bundle .
( ii ) The middle region of the hemisphere especially , but also the remaining parts to a less extent , give origin to the tracts which terminate in the thalamus and mesencephalon respectively , viz. , the Tr. striothalamicus and Tr. striomesencephalicus .
( iii ) The expanded posterior part of the hemisphere is the site and origin of three large tracts , viz. , the anterior commissure , the Tr. occipitomesencephalicus , and a great associational bundle binding the anterior and posterior parts of the brain together , and called the fronto-occipital tract .
In considering the physiological significance of these tracts , their anatomical distribution indicates the paramount importance of the sense of sight in the bird .
The optic tracts and lobes are enormously developed , and the latter have connections with all parts of the central nervous system , being thus a reflex centre of the highest importance .
The well-developed posterior parts of the hemisphere , with their connections with the mesencephalon , illustrate in this animal the first formation of a higher cerebral visual centre .
Further , not only is there marked deficiency of sight in the opposite eye after injury to one optic vesicle , but the same symptom is noticed after injury to any part of the cerebral hemisphere .
The defect of sight is most marked after removal of the whole hemisphere , or of the occipital portion ; but we are of opinion that distinct amblyopia follows a superficial lesion chiefly involving the pallial tract , or after removal of the fore part of the brain , which , as mentioned above , is connected with both this tract and with the occipital lobe .
Two excitable areas are found on the surface of the hemisphei e .
One situated on fibres of the pallial tract , near the median plane , and stimulation of which gives , as was long ago described by Ferrier , constant contraction of the pupil of the opposite eye .
On the Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
179 If By what path such stimulation affects the motor nuclei we do not know , but lesions of this region give rise to a limited degeneration in the pallial tract .
A second situated on the lateral aspect of the surface of the brain , at a point corresponding to the junction of the great striate and occipital tracts .
Stimulation of this area gives rise to complicated movements , which consist chiefly of deglutition , often accompanied by actual pecking and by a rotation of head and neck .
No other motor symptoms were noticed on carefully stimulating the surface of the brain .
Nor is any motor defect observed after removal of one hemisphere .
After removal of both hemispheres , a condition follows which has been carefully studied by Schrader , and with the description of this author we fully agree .
The symptoms vary according to the time which has elapsed since the operation .
In the early stage the animal is markedly inert , stands with flexed head , ruffled feathers , and eyes shut ; the lack of initiative is pronounced .
In the later stage it constantly walks about , and is in a condition of continual unrest , yet always avoids obstacles , and can maintain its equilibrium in various positions .
The relative importance of the mesencephalic spinal system of fibres led us to examine the animals after injury of the optic vesicles for indications of motor defect .
Contrary to what has been noticed in higher animals , we are of opinion that whilst a slight lesion is not followed by any observable motor defect , more pronounced injury gives rise to a weakness on the opposite side , so that the animal falls to that side .
If the lesion be very severe , the animal is quite unable to stand , and lies continually on its back .
" ( \gt ; n the Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Fifth Note .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
In a previous communication upon this subject , I gave* the results obtained in an experimental examination of the antagonistic correlation which at least potentially exists in the muscular action of the opening of the palpebral aperture .
The orbicularis palpebrarum and the levator palpebrce superiorisare to a certain extent an antagonistic couple .
During the course of last year I took opportunity to examine the co-ordination of the same antagonistic muscles in the movement , not of # 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 17 , p. 27 , 1894 .
VOL. LXIV .
P

