]\gt ; .876 .
] On the Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
that in which one of these quantities is even and the other odd .
Put , hen , for , and for ; thus we have Then by ( 1 ) we obtain finally This formula will be found to include the results which are given in bhe Philosophical Tramsactions for 1870 , pages February 11 , 187 III .
On the Determination , at Sea , of the Specific Gravity of Sea-water.\ldquo ; By J. Y. BUCHANAN , Chemist on board H.M.S. Challenger .
' Communicated by Prof. WYVILLE THOMSON , F.R.S. Received January 22 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In the investigation of the physical condition of the ocean the accurate determination of the specific gravity of the water holds a first place .
The tolerably numerous observations which have been made in this direction , in a more or less connected manner , are sufficient to prove that the density of the water varies , not only with the latitude and longitude , but also with the distance from the surface of the source from which it is taken .
This difference of density depends partly on an ctual difference in saltness , and partly on a difference in temperature of the water .
The amount of due to each of these causes be precisely stated when we know the effect of one of them , the sum of the effects of the two by our observations .
Hellae , to determine the saltness , we elimin{te the effect of temperature by reducing the resuIts to their at one common temperature .
It is also necess that the means of obtaining the water should be of a reliable character .
In ting , therefore , the trustworthiness of the resuIts , we must considel , first , the means used for collecting the water ; second , those used for determining the relation between its weight and volume ; third , the ation of 302 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on the its tempel.ature ; and fourth , the reduction of the results to their at a common temperature .
These divisions of the subiecb are treated in their order .
The samples of water are collected either in an ordinary canvas bucket or in one of kinds of metal ' ' water-bottle , \ldquo ; according as it is to be laken from the surface or from depths below it .
The use of the ordinury hand-bucket needs no explanation .
When water is to be obtained from the bottom , the " " slip\ldquo ; water-bottle is used .
This instrument is a vedish invention , improved by Dr. Meyer , of Kiel , who without doubt has described it , and by Messrs. Milne , of Edinburgh , who furnished those used on board the ' Challenger .
' Water from intermediate depths is obtained in a much lighter instrument , which , with a drawing and the method of using it , is fully described in the of which this is an abstract .
In principle it consists of a metal cylinder fm.nished with stopcocks at both ends .
The levers by which these stopcocks are turned are connected by a straight rod , so that they simultaneously either open or shut , or at least at the same phase of being open or shut .
When water is to be oollected by its means , the stopcocks are opened and the instrument sunk to the required depth , ving been previously securely fastened to a sounding- ] .
The operation of sinking must be carried on without a check , owing to the pecu- liarity of the closing-apparatus .
When the required depth has been reached , the line is checked , hauled in a few fathoms , let go , and finally brought to the by of the donkey-engine .
The rod connecting the stopcocloe is furnished with a metal plate , which , during the descent , is retained in a vertical position by the passage of the water on both sides of it .
When , however , the direction of motion is reversed , the falls into a horizontal position , when , by its passage through the water , it exercises such a pressure on the rod that the stopcocks are closed .
Arrived at the surface , it contains the water which it had enclosed the depth in question .
A small safety-valve allows of the escape of the surplus water , which , owing to the greater density of the water below the surface , it has enclosed in excess of what it can hold at atmospheric ture and pressure .
The apertures of the stopcocks being necessarily smaller than the diameter of the cylinder , the efficiency of the strument in really ohanging water as it descends tested before leaving ) in a freshwnter lake , the ater with which it was filled at the surface containing some yellow prussiate of pohsh .
It was found that the water fetched , under these circumsbtnces , from depths over fathom upon by soIution of perchloride of iron .
The l.ate , therefore , of change of water is satisfactory , as we be tain of obtaining an average sample of , at the most , the last 2 fathoms passed through by the instrument .
The variations in the specific gravity of the water lvhich forms the ocean are , comparafively , so slight , that an instrument of 875 .
] Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
iderable delicacy is necessary for recording them .
As far as 1 have itherto been able to observe , they lie the extremes and 02400 ; the results , therefore , to be of any value , must be correct , at aast to one in the fourth decimal place .
In mentioning these extremes , must be observed that they refer to ocean-waters , and not to the mixures of fresh and salt water to be found in bays and estuaries , where vaters of ffi degrees of saltness may found .
The instrument selected the hydrometer ; and the purpose which it was to serve being of so very special a nature , I preferred to have a special instrument made for , to making use of the hydrometer ordinarily supplied by the instrumentnaker .
It has a large body and fine stem , the relation in size of the one the other , and the absolute size of both of them , having been deternined beforehand by calculation , so as to obtain the requisite delicacy .
is evident , for a hydrometer of given size , in the measure that its lelicacy is increased its range is diminished .
In the specific avities of sea-waters both great delicacy and range are :equired ; the latter is secured , without detriment to the former , by the $pplication of the principle of Nicholson 's hydrometer .
In the paper of which this is an abstract , the construction , calibration , and method of )bserving the instrument are minutely desclibed and illustrated by a drawing .
The description of the instrument is briefly as follows : stem , which carries a millimetre-scale 10 centimetres long , has an outside diameter of about 3 millimetres , the external of the divided portion being accurately cubic centimetre ; the volume of the body is cubic centimetres , and the weight of the instrument is grammes .
With this volume and weight it flonts in distilled water of C. at about the lowest division ( 100 ) of the scale .
In order to make it serviceable for heavier waters , a small table is made to rest on the top of the stem , of such a weight that it depresses the instrument in distilled water of C. to about the topmost division ( 0 ) of the scale .
By means of a series of six weights , multiples by 1 , 2 , 8 , 4 , 5 , and 6 of the weight of the table , specific gravities between 1 ftnd can be observed .
It is not necessary that these weights should be accurate multiples of the weight of the table ; it is sufficient if ' they it within a centigramme and their actual weight be with accuracy .
The weights of the table and weights in actual use are:\mdash ; Weight of table . . . . . . . . . . . .
gramme .
Weight of weight No. I. . . . .
II . . . . . . . . . .
mmes .
, IV . . . . .
, . . . . .
, VI . . . . .
304 Mr. J. .
Buchanan on the [ Mar. For ooeanic waters the hydrometer is always used with the table and either No. .
or No. V. weight .
When the mechanical part of the construction of the instrument was finished , with the exception of the closing of the top of the stem ( which , instead , was widened into a funnel-shape large enough to receive the ordinary decigramme weights ) , the calibration of the stem was ected b loading the stem with successive weights , and observing the consequent depressions in distilled water of known temperature .
This done , the top was up and the instrument carefully weighed .
The expansion of the body with temperature was determined in a similar manner by reading the instrument in distilled water of various temperatures .
The coeflicient of expansion of the glass was then found to be per degree Centigrade .
For using this ument at sea about 900 cubic centimetres of water are takell , and the cylinder placed on a swinging table , in a position as near the oentre of the ship as possible .
The observationwith the hydrometer , loaded with the necessary table and weight , is then effected in the ordinary way , the accuracy of the readings being but little affected by rolling ; , however , is found to have a distinctly disturbing effect , and , when it is in any way violent , it is advisable to store the specimen of water till the weather improves .
The precautions to be observed in making these observations at must be sought for in the paper .
The temperature of the water , at the time of observation , is determined by one of Geissler 's " " normal\ldquo ; thermometers , graduated into tenths of a degree Centigrade ; it is essential for the accuracy of the results that the water , ring the observation of the hydrometer , should be sensibly at the same temperature as the atmosphere , the changing temperature of the water makes the readings of both the hydrometer and the thermometer .
At low temperatures ( below or C. a tenth of a degree no sensible difference in the resulting speoific gravity ; but at the high temperatures always found at the surface of tropical seas , rising sometimes to C. , the same difference of temperature may make a difference of 3 to 4 in the fifth decimal place of the resulting specific gravity .
Having obtained the specific gravity of the water in question at a perature whioh depends upon that of the air at the time , it is necessary , in order the results may be comparable , to l.educe them to their value at one commoll temperftture .
For this purpose a knowledge of the Jaw of expansion of sea-wnter elIJperature is neccssaxy .
This had been determined with sufficient accuraey for Jow temperatures by Despretz others ; but as the temperatures at which specific-graxity observations are made are comparati ) ely bigh , their results xs ere of but little use , direeted as they were chiefly to determination of the freezing- and maximum-density the late lIaury was devopig Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
, theory of oceanic circulation , to difference of density of the in its different parts , he found the of mation on this subject .
At his request , the late Professor Hubbard , of National Observatory , U.S. , instituted a series of experiments , from lich he was enabled to lay down a curve of the volulnes of sea-water at temperatures , from considerably below the freezing-point to much ove what obtains even in tropical atmospheres .
The results are pubhed in Maury 's ' Directions , ' 1858 , vol. .
p. 237 , and have evi{ntly been carried out great care .
The composition of different eanic waters varies , even in extreme cases , within such close limits , that law of thermal expansion is sensibly the same for all of them ; of this 's experiments afford satisfactory proof .
the Table which gives resuIts of his experiments he takes the olume of watel at F. his unit .
In order to much useless , I have been in habit of reducing my results to the same temperatul hile , for a like leason , I have retained the specific of distilled ater at C. as the unit .
The choice of common to hich the results should be reduced , and of a unit of specific gravities , is purely conventional matter ; and in choosing the abole-meIltioned ones , 1 the first instance moved solely by a desire to save calculation .
or every water , however , there is one ture to which it would be atural to reduce its specific mely , the temperature hich the ater had when in its place in the ocean ; in this sense all resuIts uring the cruise have been reduced .
Hubbard 's Table of the change of olume of a mass of sea-water with change of temperature bless us ery easily to reduce any observed specific gravity from the tnre observation to any other temperature , say C. In the is transcribed from the ' Sailing Directions .
' In the lable the volumes for every degree from C. to C. re given : \mdash ; TABLE I. 306 Mr. J. .
Buchanan on the Let the specific gravity of a sea-water be found to , at a ture , and let be the volume found in ths above Table correspondin to .
Then we shall have , for the value of the specific gravity to O. , Similarly , any other observed specific gravity at the same tempeKture , becomes at C. , In a system of rectangular coordinates , let observed specific gravities be measured along the axis of , and reduced ones , on the same scale , along the axis of .
We have then two points and and the equation to the straight line passing through them is This line passes through the origin and makes an angle the axis of .
By giving to the successive values found in the above Table for different temperatures , we can draw a system of lines all branching from the origin , and each one representing the relation between the specific gravity of different sea-waters at C. and $t same temperature of observation .
If the values of have been for every degree Centigrade within the limits of the above Table , we have the isothermals for every degree Centigrade .
In the extended paper an isothermal chart of this kind is given in Plate II .
In it ffi lines are drawn for every two degrees hrenheit , and the origin has been shifted from the point of zero specific gravity to a point , wher6 ; so that the general equation to the lines is . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) By means of a chart of this kind the work of reducing observed specific gravities to their value at any other ture becomes a mere meoperation .
The specific gravity is laid off on the axis of , and , through the point so found , a line is drawn parallel to the axis of .
Through the point of intersection of this liJle with the isothermal for the temperature of observation , a line is drawn parallel to the axis of .
This line cuts all the isothermaIs , and the ordinates of the points of intersection are the specific vities of the sea-water in question at these different temperatures .
The specific at C. is given by the intersections\mdash ; namely , where the line cuts the isothermal for , whose equation is , and where it cuts the axis of ; the intersections give , of course , identical values .
In all these reductions the unit remains the namely , the specific gravity of distilled water at C. In therto published tions on the specific gravity of sea-water , the unit , where mentioned at all , is frequently the specific gravity of distilled vater at other temperatures , such Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
307 C. , C. , and so forth .
In order to reduce results from their lue , the unit being water C. , to their value the speciiic vity of at any other temperature being unity , it is only necessal'y divide the result by the specific vity of distilled at this temrature , the unit being at C. Let.x ' be the specifio of -water reduced to , and let it be to it into its [ ue when the umit is water at .
Let be the specific of diskd water at , that at C. .
uuity , have then for the specific svity , -ith new unit mihrly , if any other ater be taken of the specific at , value at C. , water at being unity , be or , just as before , we get the general equation to a system of lines , hich , when the origin is the point , is . . . . . .
( 2 ) ow in Table I. the extreme of are ttnd , and temperatures below22o C. the of ] or any of , between those extremes , the line expressed by equamust coincide with ome represented by .
By eomaring , then , the values of Table I. ith those of Table of expansion of distilled ater , lines repleseLt speciiic ravities at .
unit being be which col.respond to isothermals reprcsellted by equntion ( 1 ) .
ustance , the value of for is in Table I. the alue of for C. is also .
For these alues , then , equntious ( 1 ) and ) present identical lines .
Hence , to leduc any spccific vity its value at C. , ater C. beiug unity , the same mstruction is ma , de as for reucing to C. , the unit the same ; only the illtelsecof the line to the xis of with the to C. is taken , and the the point is the speciiic grnvity C. , water at C. eing unity .
In a precisely silnilar manner find the equntion to the isohermal for specific gravities reluced to any temperature , water On the Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
at any temperature being unity , to be .
( 3 Thus for C. we have , whenc .
Now in Table I. is the value of for the isothermn for C. Hence to reduce observed specific gravities to their values O. , water at C. being unity , is equivalent to reducin it to water at C. being unity , the isothermal for which is given in the charl To take an example , let the specific gravity of a water be observed a C. and found to be .
Finding on the axis of draw through it the line A parallel to the axis of .
Through th intersection of A with the isothermal for O. , the line is draw1 parallel to the axis of .
The ordinates of its points of intersection with the other isothermals are the specific gravities at these temperatures water at C. being unity ; they are at ( both by the inter section with the isothermal and with the axis of ) , at at .
When the unit is the specific gravity of distilled wate at , the speoific gravity at is , or the same as at water at C. being unity .
When the speoific gravity of distilled wate : at C. is unity , the specific gravity at C. is , or the as at C. , when water at is unity .
During the course of the cruise a considerable number of waters had their specific gravities determined at different temperatures .
results when reduced to the common temperature of C. agree : as a rule , within 5 in the fifth decimal place , the greatest being 14 .
When the specific gravity of the same water is determined with same hydrometer table , but with different weights , the meaIl crepancy in the results is 5 , and the maximum 10 in the fifth decim\amp ; plaoe .
As an absolute test of the trustworthiness of the results , I landed balance , and determined the specific gravity of the water of harbour , in the usual way , by weighing it in a specific-gravity tube , and reducing it to its value at both by the graphical method , alreadJ described , and arithmetically , using the ctors found in the Tablet of expansion of sea and distilled waters .
I found its specific reduced arithmetically to be , reduced graphioally .
Determined on board by means of the hydrometer and reduced graphically it was .
The true specific gravity must efore lie between and .
Taking , therefore , into account the results of the application of those different tests of accuracy , I think the trus worbhiness of the method is fully established .
H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' HoIlg Kong , December , 1874 .

