III .
" Note sir un Organ , place dans le Cordon Spermatique , et dont l'existence n'a pas ete signalee par les Anatomistes .
" Par F. GIRALDES , Professeur Agrege de la Faculte de Medecine , &amp;c. Communicated by Sir BENJAMIN BRODIE , Bart. Received April 19 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives aln account of certain tubular and vesicular bodies which he has discovered in the spermatic cord , and which he considers to be the remains of the Wolffian body of the embryo .
The structures in question , which he proposes to designate collectively by the term " Corps Innominl , " form a small group situated behind the tunica vaginalis , between that membrane and the spermatic vessels , and extending usually from the head of the epididymis as high as the point where the membrane is reflected forwards from the cord ; sometimes , however , reaching much higher up , or , on the other hand , being more concentrated in the neighbourhood of the epididymis .
The " Corps Innomine " is found in the new-born infant , and in a more or less modified condition at all later periods of life ; it has also been met with in the lower animals .
To facilitate its detection and examination , the author has found it advantageous previously to render the surrounding tissues transparent , by macerating the spermatic cord in an acid solution , for which purpose he recommends the use of tartaric or citric acid in the infant , and of dilute nitric acid in the adult .
After this preparation minute whitish specks make their appearance in the situation above mentioned , which , when examined with the microscope , are found to be produced by small vesicles and convoluted tubes of varied and curious shape , surrounded by a plexus of small blood-vessels , which are distributed on their parietes .
The tubes are short , tortuous , and for the most part beset with very unequal-sized and irregular varicose dilatations , and sometimes with short branches ending in rounded swollen extremities .
The vesicles are round or oval , like short closed segments of a varicose tube , and generally with irregularly protruding outline .
The walls of both vesicles and tubes are formed of a fibrous connective tissue , and lined with epithelium , and they enclose a consistent but clear fluid , holding in suspension epithelium-particles and transparent granules .
This description applies to the condition of the structures in question as found in the infant , and up to the age of from six to ten years ; after this they begin to be atrophied , so that although still present in the adult , they are usually less marked ; but , on the other hand , they then sometimes contain a more consistent liquid , and are occasionally dilated , so as to constitute certain forms of cysts known to occur in the spermatic cord .
As already stated , the author regards the " Corps Innomine " as formed by the atrophied remains of the Wolffian body , and therefore comparable to the so-called " organ of Rosenmiiller , " which is found in the broad ligament of the uterus , and represents the vestiges of the Wolffian body in the female ; and as certain vesicular productions in the broad ligament may take their rise from these remnants , so the author , as before remarked , has satisfied himself that the origin of some of the cysts of the spermatic cord may be traced to dilatation of the tubular elements of the " Corps Innomine " in the male .
The paper is illustrated by drawings representing the objects in their natural size and situation , and also as seen under the microscope .

