IX .
" On the Action of Urari and of Strychnia on the Animal Economy .
" By Professor ALBERT KOLLIKER of Wiirzburg .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S , Received May 31 , 1856 .
The communication which I now offer to the Royal Society contains a brief statement of the results of a series of experiments which I lately made on the action of the urari poison and of strychnia on the animal economy .
I. URARI .
The urari is the well-known poison from Guiana , also called Curare and Woorara .
That which I employed in my experiments I owe to the liberality of my friend Professor Christison of Edinburgh .
The following are the conclusions at which I arrived respecting its operation : 1 .
The urari causes death very rapidly when injected into the blood or inserted into a wound ; when introduced by way of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal its effects are slow and require a large dose for their production , especially in mammalia .
When applied to the skin of frogs it is altogether inoperative .
2 .
Frogs poisoned with very small doses of urari may gradually recover , even after it has produced complete paralysis of the nerves .
Mammalia may also be restored , even after large doses , provided respiration is maintained artificially .
3 .
The urari , acting through the blood , destroys the excitability of the motor nerves .
In frogs under its operation the terminal branches of these nerves within the muscles lose their excitability in a few minutes , whilst their trunks become affected an hour or two later .
If , after the nervous extremities have become paralysed , the heart of the animal be excised so as to prevent the nerves from receiving any filrther share of the poison , the nervous trunks may retain their excitability for three or four hours .
4 .
The brain is less affected by the urari than the nerves in the muscles ; still when , by ligature of the two aortic arches , in frogs , the poisoning is confined to the anterior half of the body , the voluntary movements of the limbs speedily cease , whilst automatic movements , of doubtful nature and probably proceeding from the medulla oblongata , may be still observed for half an hour or an hour after the poison has begun to operate .
5 .
The spinal cord is considerably less affected than the brain by this poison , and by local limitation of the poisoning ( as in No. 4 ) , it is found that the cord retains its reflex activity from half an hour to an hour and a half , and the excitability of its white substance or its conducting power from two to three hours after the poison has taken effect .
It is worthy of remark that in such cases the impaired reflex activity of the spinal cord may be revived by strychnia directly applied to it .
6 .
The sensory nerves , as shown also by locally limited poisoning , retain their functional activity as long at any rate as reflex actions can be excited , and when the depressed reflex activity has been revived by means of strychnia , these nerves are found not to have been in the slightest degree injured , so that it seems doubtful whether the urari in any way affects them .
7 .
The nerves of the involuntary muscles and of the glands are also paralysed by the action of urari , at least I find this to be true in the following cases , viz.a .
The pneumoyastric , as regards its influence on the heart .
b. The sympathetic ( its cervical portion ) , in its relation to the iris .
c. The nerves of the posterior lymph-hearts of the frog .
d. The nerves of the vessels in the web of the frog 's foot .
e. The splanchnic nerves of the rabbit , as affecting the peristaltic motions .
f. The nerves governing the secretion of the submaxillary gland in dogs .
8 .
The voluntary muscles remain perfectly excitable , but show a greater tendency than usual to merely local contractions .
In general the cadaveric rigidity of these muscles appears to set in later than usual .
9 .
The plain or non-striated muscles also remain long irritable after poisoning by urari .
10 .
The heart , in amphibia , is little affected by urari .
Its pulsation as well as the circulation of the blood goes on regularly for many hours after the poisoning is established .
The only thing worthy of note is that the beat of the heart appears to be somewhat quickened , probably from paralysis of the pneumogastric nerves .
In frogs poisoned with urari , the heart , when cut in two , shows the usual phenomenon , namely , that the half which contains the ganglia continues to pulsate whilst the other does not ; from which it may be inferred that these ganglia are not paralysed .
As to the nerves in the substance of the heart , those at least which are derived from the pneumogastric are unquestionably paralysed ( vide No. 7 ) .
11 .
The lymph-hearts of frogs poisoned with urari soon cease to move .
12 .
The blood of animals poisoned by urari is fluid and dark , but coagulates when drawn from the vessels , and forms a weak clot which is but little reddened by exposure to air .
Directly mixed with blood , urari does not prevent coagulation , but the blood in this case also remains dark and scarcely reddens on exposure .
13 .
The blood of animals poisoned by urari has the same poisonous qualities as that substance itself , but not in a degree sufficient to produce the full effects of the poison .
Urari when directly mixed with blood loses none of its efficacy .
14 .
Urari , in concentrated solution , applied locally to nerves extinguishes their excitability , but only after a considerable time , and it appears to act similarly on the nerves in the substance of the muscles .
Dilute solutions have no injurious operation .
Applied directly to the brain and spinal cord , urari is altogether harmless provided its absorption be prevented .
15 .
When artificial respiration is kept up in quadrupeds poisoned with urari , I find that , as observed by Bernard , many of the secretions become increased-as the tears , saliva , urine and mucus of the air-passages , which effect appears to be owing to the paralysis of the vascular nerves and consequent dilatation of the vessels caused by the poison .
16 .
In nammalia urari causes death by paralysis of the respiratory nerves and suppression of the respiration , which brings on convulsions in these animals as a collateral effect .
In frogs the final extinction of the functions may also be partly ascribed to suppressed action of the lungs and defective oxidation of the blood , which at length renders the heart unfit to perform its office ; but it must be observed that in this case the cause of death is not so plain , inasmuch as in these animals the functions are in a great degree independent of the pulmonary respiration .
II .
STRYCHNIAo Some experiments with strychnia ( the acetate ) gave the following results 1 .
Strychnia has not the least influence on the peripheral nerves through the blood , which is best shown by cutting the nerves before administering the poison .
2 .
Strychnia paralyses the motor nerves of the voluntary muscles by exciting them to too energetic action , a paralysis which may be compared to that caused by powerful electric currents acting upon the nerves .
In frogs , when the tetanic spasms are over , the nerves often show no trace of excitability ; in mammalia they generally retain it in a slight degree , but never show the same energy of action as when uninjured .
3 .
Strychnia does not affect the sensory nerves .
4 .
The heart is not affected by strychnia , not even during the tetanic spasms , with the exception only that its pulsations are sometimes a little slower during the tetanic state .
On the contrary , the lymph-hearts of frogs contract themselves as soon as the tetanus begins , and remain in this state as long as the spasms last .
5 .
The tetanic fits can be brought on in two ways ; first , through the sensory nerves , which , by irritating the grey substance of the spinal cord , produce the tetanic contractions as reflex movements ; and , secondly , through tAe brain , which is not affected at all by strychnia and preserves its powers of volition and sensation .
Accordingly , animals poisoned with strychnia try to move in the ordinary way , but every attempt brings on a tetanic fit , so that it is plain that the spinal cord may also be excited by the brain to its peculiar actions .
6 .
If the tetanus produced by strychnia has been strong , the muscles are less irritable and pass much sooner into the state of cadaveric rigidity , which is very strongly marked , and seems to last longer than it generally does .
The same early onset of rigidity may be observed in animals killed by tetanus excited by electricity .

