Further Experiments and Observations on the influence of the Brain on the generation of Animal Heat .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F.R.S. Communicated to the Society for promoting the knowledge of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read June 18 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 378 .
] In some former experiments it was found , that in an animal from whom the head was removed , the circulation of the blood might be maintained by means of artificial respiration ; that under these circumstances the blood underwent the usual changes of colour in the two capillary systems , and carbonic acid was evolved from the lungs , but no heat was generated , and the animal cooled more rapidly than a dead animal of the same size .
In the present communication , some experiments are detailed , which were instituted with a view to the further elucidation of this subject .
An apparatus was constructed for the purpose of measuring the air consumed in respiration ; and two series of experiments were instituted , the first to ascertain the quantity of air consumed by animals breathing under ordinary circumstances ; and the second to ascertain the quantity consumed by animals which are made to breathe artificially after the functions of the brain are destroyed .
It was found , that in animals breathing under these different circumstances , there is little or no difference in the quantity of oxygen which disappears , and of carbonic acid , which is evolved in a given space of time ; but that it uniformly happens , that where the functions of the brain are suspended , no heat is generated ; and that the animal cools more rapidly than a dead animal .
In another experiment , an animal apparently dead from the poison of essential oil of almonds , was made to recover , by respiration being artificially produced until the poison had ceased to exert its influence .
It was found , that while the functions of the brain were suspended , no heat was generated , but that as the sensibility of the animal was restored , the power of generating heat returned .
These experiments , as well as those detailed in the Croonian Lecture for 1810 , go far towards proving that the temperature of warmblooded animals is considerably under the influence of the nervous system ; but , what is the nature of the connexion between them ?
Whether the brain is directly or indirectly necessary to the generation of animal heat ?
These are questions which , in the present state of our knowledge , must remain unresolved .

