]\gt ; Fluid in the Atmosphere .
By Sir NAPIER ( Received June 7 , 1917 .
) In a paper read on } , ] Lord Rayleigh makes an important contribution the of revolving fluids , taking as " " the starting point of part of his ation the papel by Dr. Aitken on " " The Dynamics of Cyclones and Anticyclones After setting out the general equations of motion of an inviscid fluid Lord Bayleigh says " " for the present purpose we assume symmetry with respect to the axis of so that and ( assumed to be valued ) are independent of I take that to be the definition of a revolving fluid for the purpose of the subject under consideration , and it is that form of motion , that is to say , motion which is symmetrical with regard to a vertical axis , that Lord had in mind when he wrote the opening sentence of the paper : " " So much of meteorology depends ultimately npon the dynamics of fluid that it is desirable to fonnulate as clearly as possible such simple conclusions as are within our reach For most ordinary readers , meteorology in its dynamical aspect is quite rightly regarded merely as a useful synonym for " " Cyclones and Anticyclones Dr. Aitken illustrates his views of the nature of cyclones and anticyclones by many interesting experiments in the dynamics of revolving masses , and when Lord ayleigh is moved by Dr. Aitken 's paper to set down clearly the conclusions that can be drawn from the theory of revolving fluids it is apparently with the hope that those conclusions may find their application in the phenomena exhibited by cyclones and anticyclones .
I must now confess that in the 20 years which I have been professionally as well as personally concerned for the progress of dynamical meteorology and the explanation of the observed phenomena of cyclones arJd anticyclones I have deliberately avoided the discussion of the theory of revolving fluid , because I could not find in the weather maps , which are the basis of practical meteorology , any real case of reyolving fluid , with suitable details of pressure , temperature , rain , etc. , to which the theory might be applied .
The literature of meteorology contains so many examples of the application of elaborate dynamical and physical reasoning to systems of supposed facts which , as applied to the atmosphere , were nothin( } better than guessing , that a more searching analysis of the actual facts seemed to be the 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 93 , p. 148 .
'Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' vol. 36 , p. 174 ( 1916 ) .
l\amp ; volving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
primary and most urgent demand .
A close examination , especially in the period between 1900 and 1905 , of many typical } roups of isobars as set out in a paper before the Royal Society on the " " Meteorological Aspects of the Storm of February 26-27 , in " " The Life-History of Surface Air Culrents\ldquo ; made it manifest that the cyclones and anticyclones of our latitudes are not examples of fluid in the particular sense referred to and therefore cannot be explained on the hypothesis that they are .
I confess , too , that the conclusion arrived at was and depressing ; for meteorologists in common with others had been , and , I fear , still are , in the habit of assuming from the obviously circular appearance of a well-developed cyclone on the map that there could be no istake in supposing a cyclonic depression to be a case of motion of fluid , perhaps a little distorted locally but still istic features , and in fact dynamically similar if not identical .
Uncertain whether the actual motion might not prove to be circular motion superposed upon some form of motion of translation , I have not hitherto felt sufficiently sure of my ground to meet that view with a negative , but I think I may safely do so now .
Making use of more recent conclusions I can perhaps best explain the situation by saying that if the motion of the air had really been motion of a revolving fluid symmetrical with regard to a vertical axis it would not have appeared in circular form on the map .
If it looks circular it is not a case of revolving fluid .
The explanation of this apparent paradox is that all the depressions of well-marked circular form in our latitudes are found to travel with a speed which is of the same order ss the velocity of the wind of which it is composed .
If the depressions are stationary they are ill-formed and irregular , the characteristic cyclonic features of strong winds with a definite centre are not to be found there .
But when the motion of translation is of the same order of magnitude as the winds the instantaneous motion is round a moving centre , and the actual motion with reference to the centre is the apparent uniform motion round the centre shown on the map combined vectorially with a velocity equal and opposite to that of the translation of the cyclone .
Consequently the appearance of uniform and symmetrical instantaneous motion in a cyclone is in itself proof that we have not in that case symmetrical motion , about a centre , of a mass which travels as a whole .
In other words , the motion of air in cyclones is not the motion of revolving fluid in the special sense referred to .
' Q. J. Roy .
Met .
Soc vol. 29 , p. 234 ( 1903 ) .
M. O. Publication , No. 174 , 1906 .
Sir N. Shaw .
In " " The Life-History of Surface Air Currents , with the assistance of G. K. Lempfert , this conclusion was minutely examined .
by the construction of a large number of trajectories , or actual paths of moving air , in the case of .
depressions , slow-moving depressions , secondary depressions , -shaped depressions , straight isobars , and less minutely but with ample confirmation of the conclusions by the tracing of the trajectories of air for periods of several days over the Atl ntic and adjoining land areas .
ncidentally we found and formulated the phenomena of the " " line squall\ldquo ; but found no case of revolving fluid .
Assuming that the symmetrical motion of a revolving fluid with regard to a centre implies the travelling of the centre and its accompanying fluid in the same way as a ng of smoke travels through the air , we may safely say that cyclonic motion is not that kin of motion ; and in further justification of that proposition it is only necessary to point out that if the instantaneous motion of the various parts of a horizontal section of a vortexring were plotted in the same way as we plot the winds on a weather-map the resulting chart would be very different from a series of concentric circles .
On the other hand the trajectories of a moving cyclonic depression show that the air flows through the depression .
If it approaches the centre it , or its -ubstitute , subsequently comes away .
The actual paths of the air under various conditions were discussed in 1905 by the late Professor W. H. H. .
Hudson under the title of " " Anemoids and at the time I had a machine constructed , deLsigned by .
H. Darwin , for drawing the curves automatically .
If the motion were really symmetrical with regard to the moving centre there could be no return therefrom unless the vortex actually breathed or pulsated .
The conclusion is the more discouraging for meteorolo .
because anyperson , even the least informed in meteorological theory , is able to point to visible examples of revolving fluid in the atmosphere which no can deny ; the eddy of dry leaves in a gusty wind at a street corner , the " " dust-devil\ldquo ; of Eastern deserts , the water spout , the whirlwind , and something , at any rate on the scale of cyclonic depression , namely , the tropical revolving storm , a very real phenomenon which is treated in all books on as a gigantic eddy , with the knowledge that an eddy always finds its typical analogue in the vortex-ring .
To these examples we can only reply that in truth they may be cases of revolving flnid , but they are not the cyclonic depressions of middle latitudes with which we are concerned in dealing with the of the British Isles .
That sounds very like quibbling , and it seems still mora so when it is pointed out that , in an official publication for which I am olving Fluid in the myself responsible , there is cited a case of a tropical storm , an acknowledged eddy , first identified on , 1891 , in the mid-AtlaIJtic in latitude N. , which had an eventful journey of 38 days , of which , perhaps , the first week i$ rather dubious , but the remainder well authenticated .
First it travelled westward along the Northern West Indian Islands to the Coast of Florida , then skirted the Atlantic Coast of America , passing round the western side of the permanent Atlantic " " turned eastward over the Gulf Stream as an intense cyclonic depression ; with a little hesitation about longitude W. , it made for the mouth of the Channel and , missing that , crossed to the Mediterranean , and lost itself there on eptember 9 .
There are various other examples of a similar acter , in far as maps ] us to judge , what as olving fluid in tropical latitudes passed by gradual transition into the form of a cyclonic depression , and yet we have to deny the identity of the two types of phenomenou .
On the other side , it must be remarked that the tropical storm a special phenomenon of very rare occurrence , the number recorded in the various localities where they sometimes inate being about one a year , and that only in certain months , whereas on our own maps , in the ten years 1907-16 , no fewer than 1200 cyclonic depressions were tlacked , a new one on the every three days .
evertheless , whenever it occurs , the gradual transition from the storm of tropical latitudes to the cyclonic depression of our own is of yreat , and may justify a short digression .
If the hypothesis of the strophic balance of the pressure and windvelocity in a cyclone of any kind be true , in accordance with the well known equatiun* ( where is the barometric the angular velocity of the earth 's rotation , the velocity of the air , its density , the latitude , the earth 's radius , and the angular radius of the small circle osculating the path of the air ) , we have first an eddy with winds of , sa metres per second ( about 100 mileb per houl ) , which travels bodily , with a velocity of about 4 metres per second ( or 10 miles per hour ) , in a latitude for which is very small ; and , in consequence , the pressure-gradient is almost entirely balanced by the spin in the small circle , and is almost independent of the earth 's rotation .
; the whole eddy travels as a mass of revolving fluid , with very little disturbance of its character or shape by the translation .
It is carried slowly in an 'Barometer Manual for the Use of Seamen , ' No. 61 , Edition , 1916 .
Sir N. Shaw .
easterly wind , turns round estern boundary of the Atlantic clone , , as it reaches llore northern latitudes , becomes more important , and a greater part of the radiant is balanced by the earth 's spin , leaving less for the rotational spin to balance .
In nsequence , one of two must happen ; either velocity of the wind which defines the spin in the small circle nrust diminish , the pressure-difference must deepen .
What actually happens , apparently , is the former alternative , and the range of pressure is distributed over a wider area .
In the outer yions of the extended area the centripetal action becomes practically negligible , in consequence of the large value of and the more moderate value of , and we a clonic depression , in which the greater part of pressuredifference is borne by the rotation of the earth eostrophic component ) , with perhaps a small core of revolving , in which the small-circle-spin ( the cyclostrophic component ) remains predominant .
The combination is 1-inematically possible if the inherent velocity of ression of the cyclomic margin is such as to fit in with that of the translation of the vortical core .
It would necessitate surrounding the discs of by a series of concentric circles , and using parts of the inner circles to join up the ends of the lines of the revolving find .
It is needless to Hay that the conditions under which this complex dynamical ucture can maintain its stability for days are not at all simple , but , however complicated they may be , they have occurred .
From the frequency with which an ordinary cyclone can be observed , we may conclude that the conditions which are necessary for it much more easily realised in practice than those necessary for the cyclostrophic balance of a revolving fluid mass , and it is quite possible that , in the end , the conditions necessary for maintaining a core of } fluid disappear , and whole system enerates ( if that is the expression ) into cyclonic motion , without a core of revolving fluid .
Certainly , there is nothing in the maps to contradict such a yestion .
As a matter of common experience , I may add that the tropical revolving storm is a very atisfactory example of revolving fluid for scientific purposes , because practically always it destroys or disables all the recording instruments in its path , ether with the in they are housed , and sometimes also the persons who attend to them , so that we cannot tell to whst extent Lord Rayleigh 's theoretical conclusions or Dr. Aitken 's ical illustrations are exemplified in its behaviour .
If we want examples that lend themselves to nulnerical calculation , we must look elsewhere .
the implicit of Lord 's statement that much of meteorology depends upon the dynamics of revolving fluid , I have approached the subject in a different way , by Revolving Flnid in , thoe Atmospherc .
endeavouring to meet the questions : " " Let it ranted that cases of permanent or quasi-permanent revolving motion , symmetrical about a moving axiq , do occur in the atmosphere , are they shown in the weather maps which are used by ists as the basis of dynamical meteorology , and , if so , in what manner ?
If cyclones and anticyclones do not furnish examples of the tion of revolving fluids in that sense , certainly in our latitudes they do not , what chal'acterisbics should be looked for instead ?
\ldquo ; I start from the position which , as I have said , meteorologists cannot deny , that at any rate temporary whirls are actually visible .
The most picturesque example which has come to my knowledge is a case described to me verbally by Mr. B. H. Curtis , formerly of the Meteorological Office .
He that on the occasion of an open-air entertainment on a sultry afternoon in the south London , when the members of the band had temporarily left their places , there came a puff of wind in a little which carried off the sheets of music from the music-stands and whirled away in a spin them to a reat height and dropped them ultimately some miles away .
Similar accounts have been given of the whirling away of loose hay , and so forth .
The precise particulars are of no consequence .
We have obviously two elements : the current which carries the , and the whirl within the current .
There must be something approaching to discontinuity , because the onset of the whirl itself is sudden .
Let us therefore suppose it possible that we may have a mass of revolving fluid with a discontinuity of velocity at the circle bounding the mass .
It is possible that there may be a relation veen the original velocity at the malgin of the -hirl the wind in the current which carries it , but , as Lord 's reasoning and Dr. Aitken 's experiment make clear , the velocity in the whirl at any depends upon dynamical or physical processes within the mass itself ; we cannot therefore make any uption of a relation between the velocity in the whirl and the rate of its translation .
Whirls on the small scale of those here referred to would not be shown on the weather map for the day , even if the hour fitted .
There may be many in the atmosphere which find no record on a map .
The scalc of the larger } of the Daily Weather Report is 1 inch to 300 nJiles , so that anything smaller than miles would be noticed in the isol ) .
The local wind produced ) whirl might be givell , but without to suggest its true significance .
The scale of the working charts of the Office is twice that of the published map , so that , perhap ) , a disturbance with a diameter of 20 iles might be detected .
thickness of the atmosphere available for meteorological purposes may be set at 10 miles , perhaps , if one Sir N. Shaw .
allows that the main features of the distribution of pressure arise from differences of tcmperature of the air of the stratosphere ; a revolving of air is therefore probably not more than 7 miles high .
Hence , at the most , the of a cylinder of revolving fluid would be less than one-half of its ( liameter , and wheleas the cases of reyolving fluid which can be seen are cases in which the height is very great compared with the diameter ; the fluid masses to be found in weather maps must belong to the other extreme , and have the shape of comparatively thin discs .
The vortex must be more like a penny than a pin , if it is to be found on the map .
It is therefore without any misapprehension as to the number of vortices likely to be caught , in relation to the number which may } } at least a temporary existence in the atmosphere but elude the map , that I proceed to the method of identifying them .
I have constructed graphically the instantaneous velocity lines in the horizontal section of a mass of revolving fluid which is being carried along by a current of air , the velocity of which is taken successively as zero , , 1 , and of the rotational velocity at the of the circle .
The section is supposed to be taken at a height of , say , 500 metres , where the effect of the surface friction may be neglected .
The section will be represented bounded by a circle , and as some arbitrary assumption must be as to the distribution of the velocity for different distances from the centre , it will be taken , to with , as uniform from ] centre to .
I shall make no trouble at this about the discontinuity of velocity { the .
The pressure will be continuous , but there will be discontinuity in the } ) -variation of pressure .
This will , of course , not be rigorously possible in nature , but it will be better to find out what the p1actice of ccommodaCion is than to try to anticipate it .
In order to obtain illustrative cases , I suppose the fluid to be represented by velocity-lines drawn on the understanding that the velocity is proportional to the number of current-lines per unit length of cross-section in the same way as ) number of lines of force indicates the strength of a field .
The lrrents which carry the fluid .
are represented in the same way , but in that case the velocity lines are taken as straight and parallei instead of being circular , as they are in the section of the reyolving fluid .
The resultant velocity lines .
simply the kinematical combination are in figs. 1-4 .
The problem lends itseH easily to algebraical solution .
The curves to which the resultant velocity is every- where are conic sections , of which the centre of the disc is the common focus .
The eccentricity is ) ratio of the velocity of translation to the velocity in rotation , assumed uniform .
For the special case of equality between the velocity of translation and the velocity in rotation ( fig. 3 ) the Sir N. Shaw .
curves ; slower travel ( fig. 2 ) they ellipses , and for travel ster than rotation they are hyperbolas .
Four examples , including the circular form the case of a stationary whirl , have been drawn for illustration , in to give a general indication of the shapes of isobars on a map which can be looked for as representing travelling revolving fluid .
Fig. 1 represents the effect of velocity , supposing .
spin to be developed in the atmosphe1e at rest and the velocity everywhere to be Fig. 2 bhe same with the superposition of an external velocity-field of V. the superposition of an external velocity-field of Fig. 4 the superposition of an external velocity-field of V. In each case the dotted circle shows the boundary of the fluid .
ures r ' the intermediate stages can be constructed in like manner .
These diagl.ams are , not of the typical circular of cyclonic ) ression ) of various well-known forms of secondary depression as indicated by the distortion of the isobars of a large cyclonic system .
They explain at once the difliculty which has herto been felt in nising cases of revolving fluid cal.ried along by an atmospheric current .
We have looking for them in the wrong place .
In fig. 1 the boundary of the levolving fluid coincides with a velocity line which could easily be identified by a sufficient number of observations ; it is also identical with an isobar , and therefore easily nised on a map , in the other cases the boundary circle cuts at a finite ange all the velocity lines except those at the top and bottom , to which it is .
There is discontinuity all along the circle , in the nitude of the velocity at the top and bottom and in the direction as well as the nitude in all other parts of the circle .
The boundary cannot , in any cumstances , be supposed to be an isobar .
So , when we have looked for circular motion to be defined by a group of circular isobars , very naturally we have not found it .
The effect of the superposition of successive external fields of velocity may briefly described as follows : If we begin with a circular field which has four velocity-lines below the centre and four above , then with each successive superposition of an external field of one-quarter of the velocity in rotation , velocity-line bent downwards , and its point of across the transverse central line is transferred from ) the centre to below it , until , when the external field is the same as the internal field , all velocitylines pass below the centre .
the intermediate steps there are four closed velocity-lines in fig. 1 , two in , none in , because the closed curve a straight line of ' no velocity\ldquo ; oonllecting the boundary line Revolvin , in the Atmosphere .
at the top with the oentre ; ) in fig. when the external field is dominant , there are ten velocity-lines crossing the lowel radius as hyperbolas in a direction hich , for the sake of btevity , we may call from west to east , one velocity-line upper radius in the same direction , and one conisting of a pair of radii of the disc , so that the wind in part of the fluid a westerly co1llponent , owhere hafi an terly component .
rotational velocity express itself merely in the variatio of direction nitude ( the generally tward i current .
The next in realising the expression of these conclusions upon a nlap to convert the velocity-line9 into , because the is the continuously varying elenlent that is represented on luaps , it is by means of the that we ] ) available indication of the velocities of atmospheric motion at a ) of 500 metres , where the is practically undisturbed by the frictional of the surface .
In this step there very serious difficulty arising from the fact that the relation of steady wind to the distribution of pressure is dependent partly upo11 the earth 's spill which gives the geostrophic component of the barometric radiant d upon the hrst power of the velocity , nd partly upon the centrifu of the motion in a small circle which balances the cyclo , ( itrophic component the balometric gradient depending uponl the square of the velocity and the angular radius of the small circle osculating the path .
If we could neglect the cyclostrophic component and consider only the eostrophic component , the velocity lines drawn in the figures would once becoule isobars drawn on a uniform scale , and the translation into ) vould consist simply in writing suitable ) ressure YainsC the lines , when the latitude and the numerical values of the velocity are ; but that simplification is not permissible .
When we are dealing with cases of revolving fluid the cyclostrophic component can ot be ected .
In the equatorial ions , where is a ratio of negligible niCude , the ophic component be disregarded and the lines of such a as could have its pressure values written against the by values for and in the formula because the velocity lines are obviously also path lines and the curvature is of the circles as drawn .
all the diagrams the assi , meant of pressure values to the velocity lines is a complicated process even if the balance of pressure and velocity assumed , ause the velocity lines are not ) lines .
In any case the actual path curves can be determined when the data are obtained .
lf we take a point on the outer rim in the case of fig. 3 the path is a cycloid .
For the upper part the cyclostrophic component may be neglected because the velocity is small and near the bottom the radius of Sir N. Shaw .
curvature is ] , so for a large outer circle the curvature correction may be arded wfecting the eneral shape of things , but near the core of any fluid , unless the velocity is very small , the rotational term is lominant .
The assumption of uniform velocity in rotation that was made for drawing the velocity rams is an arbitrary one , and without any obvious departure from known facts we may substitute for it the assumption that the distribution of velocity is such that what we have obtained as velocity lines shall now represent pressure lines and the velocity may be adjusted in therewith .
Whether that assumption would give a distribution of velocity symmetrical with to the centre I have not fully examined ; but , if not , we may assume that ) shapes of the lines could be adjusted to the symmetry without the general appearance as on a map which the details minutely .
Let us , therefore , now regard figs. 2-4 as ralns of isobars of that part of a map which contains a mass of revolving fluid carried in a main current .
The next step is to deal with the ends of the isobars outside the circle of reyolving fluid .
In the atmosphere an isobar ca1mot have loose ends ; they must be.ioined .
We have drawn the isobars outside the circle as parallel lines .
isobars are not at all an unusual form of grouping on a map , : there must be low essure on the left and high pressure on the right and the ends will be joined sooner or later by enclosing a lowpressure area or a -pressure area .
They belong in fact to the re of a cyclone or anticyclone .
The position of the revolving fluid is thus identified not as the centre of a cyclone or anticyclone but as a distortion of isobars in Chenlain current controlled by eneral distribution of sure of which the cyclone and anticyclone are elements .
It is the velocity of this current which carries the fluid along , and if our Jnosis is true the velocity of translation of the } fluid is velocity of the main current in which it is formed ; and that velocity can be inferred from the distribution of the pressure in regions near to but undisturbed by the revolving fluid .
It was merely for the purposes of simplicity that we drew the contilluations of the isobars as lines on the ; what amount of curvature can be allowed in the isobars of the current in which a 1evolving column or disc is formed ltust be left to experience to decide .
more elements must be brought into con sideration connected with the possibility of permatlence of a column or disc of fluid carried along in a main cur1ent of air .
The first is to what height in atmosphere does the column of fluid extend ?
One of the great difficulties of ining the maintenance for days ether of a tropical storm or any other example of Fluid in the Atmosphere .
revolving fluid which is supposed to demand unlimited supplies of air from the bottom is why it does not take in air from the top and fill up .
Without going into particulars , which are really necessary , it has been customary to mention the word convection and leave it at that ; but it requires a very finely organised scheme of convection to keep a hurricane in being for a week .
Convection , we know , stops short of the stratosphere , which is low over low pressure .
In the application of a formula for the variation of wind with height in a cyclostrophic system for a lecCure at the Royal Institution in March , 1916 , I made out that when the stratosphere reached and , in consequence , higher pressure corresponds with colder air , the velocity of rotation and consequent pressure-difference would fall rapidly with , and so a cap in which rotation gradually falls would automatically protect the column of revolving fluid ) elow .
If then the main current which carried the revolving column extended into the stratosphere and so was available for carrying the cap along with the revolving column the combination have a fair chance of permanence or persistence .
The best a meteorologist can say at this stage is that there seems no possibility of maintaining quasi-permanently a column of revolying fluid in the atmosphere unless it extends from its base up to the boundary of the troposphere .
It is quite possible to imagine a secondary " " lid\ldquo ; formed by an " " inversion of temperature gradient\ldquo ; which would take the place of the stratosphere at a lower level , but thele is no definite evidence about the of a quasi-permanent eddy in that way .
That brings us to the second point in connection with the persistence of a column of revolving fluid , namely , the necessity for the extension of the main current carrying the fluid without change of its velocity up to the top of the column : in our case apparently to the top of the troposphere and a little beyond it .
That is a matter which certainly equires consideration .
One of the commonplaces of meteorological statistics is that the wind generally increases , sometimes decreases , and hardly ever remains the same at different levels .
's law derived from the observation of clouds , and accounted for on a physical basis , in a paper on the interpretation of the results of soundings with pilot the velocities at any height as inversely proportional to the densities of the air at those heights .
This would mean that with a velocity of 20 metres per second near the surface there will be a velocity at 10 kilom .
height of 60 metres per second .
Such a distribution of velocity would very soon make an end of a column of rotating fluid ; after an hour of it the head would be 90 miles away from the foot , after a day , 2000 miles away .
It would be literally torn to pieces .
So we ' Q. J. Roy .
Met .
Soc vol. 40 , p. 111 ( 1914 ) .
Sir N. Shaw .
have got to the conditions in which does not apply , and in which the velocity of the wind suffers neither increase nor decrease in the 10 or 12 kilometres of height over which the meteor stretches .
In the lecture already referred to , I gave a formula for the variation of wind with height under geostrophic conditions , and Mr. W. H. Dines*has put similar oning into a much simpler form .
He shows that the wind velocity remains invariable with height if the isobsric surfaces in the atmosphere are also I do not know exactly how to interpret condition in general terms .
I can the atmosphere be stratified in layers defined by isobaric surfaces , of which the parts of each layer are isentropically related without consecutive layers being so related .
The entropy-relation of different parts of the atmosphere is so complicated by water and its vapour that I have not yet succeeded in the reasoning about it to an easily manageable form ; in any case this is true , that if the of the atmosphere and consequent isentropic equivalence of the several parts is complete , then .
Dines ' condition for uniform velocity at all levels is satisfied .
In the upper regions of the atmosphere convection is the chief , if not practically the only , agent for promoting isentropic mixture , and if we want to find an example of a current of air with practically equal ] ocity at all levels it would be well to look for it in a where convection has been active and ubiquitous .
There may be other examples covered the formula which I cannot picture to myself , but that one is certain .
Now , from an entropy-temperature diagram of atmospheric air , not yet published , which Mr. E. .
Newnham has recently constructed for me , it is clear that the average condition of air in a cyclone very nearly corresponds with an adiabatic line for saturated air , from which I conclude that the rainy region of a cyclone ( that is to say , the region where convection has been and is active ) is the proper place to look for an example of a current that is generally isentropic , and , consequently , has a uniform velocity throughout its and is in the condition necessary for carrying a revolving fluid without pulling the top from the bottom .
To be effective , for the purpose of carrying along a column of air , this current must extend upwards somewhat beyond the base of the stratosphere .
The southern side of a cyclone , so far as we can judge , does that .
The pressure-difference between the outer region on the south of a cyclone and the region near the centre may be said to inate in the stratosphere .
In this case the isentropic condition gives a relation ' Nature , ' vol. 99 , p. 24 ( 1917 ) .
See ' Geophysical Memoirs , ' No. 2 , 1912 .
Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
between and , which radually diminishes the pressure-difference as one goes upwards , but it is only when the stratosphere is reached that the pressure-difference and the velocity begin to fall away rapidly , in consequence of the slope of temperature being opposite to the slope of pressure : the westerly current on the south side of a cyclone is one of the most definite entities , and most certain of reat extension in the vertical direction .
If , therefore , we desire to find an example of the motion of flnid in the atmosphere of these latitudes , we shall not look for it at the centre of a cyclone with circular isobars , nor shall we expect its own isobars to be circular when we find them .
It will be represented by distortions of the isobars of the distribution of pressure similar in shape to one or other of the figures ( 1-4 ) , according to the relation between the velocity with which it travels and its own speed of rotation .
The speed for any circle will be one-half of the difference veen the velocity indicated on the mtlp for the two points on the diameter of the circle transverse to the motion of translation , and the speed of translation will be one-half of the sum .
I propose to give two examples which illustrate these views .
In the first ( fig. the shapes of the isobars suggest the existence of a rotating system such as that described .
It is shown on the map for 8 .
on March 24 , 1895 , and , with very little of character , also on the maps for 2 and 6 .
on the same day .
The map for 8 o'clock the morning gests that by that time the system had degenerated into a cyclone .
The second is the case of a tornado in Devonshire and South Wales on October 27 , the worst damage of which was done about 6 , although the isobars on the map for that epoch ( fig. 7 ) , as drawn in the working-charts of the office for the Daily Weather Beport , show no sig of any exceptional atmospheric activity , so that in this case the fluid must be regarded as being carried forward with the stream represented by the isobars without producing any interference with the general run of those lines .
The first case , that of March 24 , 1895 , has always been regarded as a noteworthy example of the destructive effect of a " " small secondary and for that reason it is figured in my book on 'Forecasting Weather .
' It was the most destructive gale within my experience of the weather at Cambridge between the years 1872 and 1900 .
It began there about 2 o'clock in the afternoon , and by 6 o'clock many of the oldest and strongest trees had been uprooted , some buildings had been demolished , and a great deal of minor ' Geophysical Memoirs , ' No. 11 , 1914 .
Sir N. Shaw .
damage done .
The remarkable feature of the fale was that , in the Eastern Counties , it was unattended with any rainfall , either before , or during , or after the strong wind .
Except for the wind , it was a fine afternoon , and remained so .
The scene of destruction caused by the wind in a few hours will probably always remain in the memory of those who were in Cambridge at the time .
On the same afternoon many trees were uprooted or broken in Norfolk ; one particular plantation near was completely wiped out .
A remarkable feature of the case was that , although the phenomena were locally of an occurrence that happens only once in a lifetime , the Daily Weather Report of the following morning seemed to it only as an ordinary , and no winds of exceptional force were noted at the observing stations .
In illustration of what was noted at the time , I have had the observations reported to the Meteorological Office for 8 , on March 24 , and 8 .
on March 25 , recomputed plotted on maps showing isobars and wind , with others showing weather and temperature for the four epochs and past rainfall for each of the two days at 8 .
The two winds , each of force 11 , on the map for 2 .
are taken from the logs of lightships off the Norfolk coast .
The locality of the centre of the revolving fluid is easily identified on the three maps of the 24th , and in each case a dotted circle has been drawn , to indicate the probable boundary of the mass .
The guiding idea in selecting the radius is the extension of the line of calm on the northern side of the centre in comparison with the extension of the intensified wind on the southern side .
The revolving fluid seems to have travelled with reat rapidity , but with little change , between 8 .
and 6 .
The actual speed of translation , according to the maps , between 8 .
and 2 , is 55 miles per hour , the geostrophic wind computed from the 8 o'clock map 63 miles per hour if taken from the separation of the isobars south-east of the reyolving mass , or 40 miles per hour if a line is taken between on either side of the path .
Between 2 .
and 6 .
the velocity computed in a similar way is either 81 miles per hour or 67 miles per hour , and the actual velocity of translation is 82 miles per hour .
There is a curious restion of the isobars south of the path , which suggests that the current which carried the whirl eased off to the north of the whirl .
After 6 .
the rate of travel of the centre was much slower , and the characteristic features of rotating fluid had probably been lost .
This may , therefore , be cited as a good example of revolving fluid carried along in a main , the velocity of translation being governed by the spacing of the isobars of the main depression outside the area affected by the local rotation , and , in virtue of this , the air which formed the mass of revolving Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
fluid over the south of Ireland at 8 .
was carried along bodily to Denmark by 6 P.bf .
The spin was maintained , and the damage done proves that the velocities of the air were exceptionally great .
The local variation of intensity may be attributed to the alteration in diameter of the revolving rings .
The absence of rain shows that very little additional physical energy was iven to the revolving fluid during its passage across Eastern Counties .
In is given all the available information about temperature and rainfall .
It shows that the differences of temperature were very slight , both from the and chronological points of view .
The origin of the rotation in the first case may , perhaps , be attributed to the line of heavy rainfall along the south of Ireland , Valencia 26 mm. , 's Point 28 mm. , and Pembroke 18 mm. , before 8 .
on the 24th .
The live is more or less parallel to the general run of the isobars , and the suggestion of parallelism between the rainfall lines and the pressure lines is borne out by the records at the other stations on the map .
The existence of the rainfall is .
evidence of a good deal of convection in the atmosphere , so that it would be reasonable to assume that the conditions specified for the lnaintenance of a colnmn of fluid are satisfied , namely that the wind velocity in the surrounding medium should be miform at all heights .
This case therefore agrees with the theoretical considerations that have been put forward in respect of the velocity of travel in relation to the isobars of the air in which the secondary is formed , the shape of the isobars in the mediate locality of the , and in the physical conditions of the atmosphere necessary for the persistence of a travelling column of revolving fluid .
The second case , that of October 27 , , is interesting as illustrating what may certainly occur , because in this particular instance it did occur , without any noteworthy deformation of the isobars actually drawn on the ulap , and explaining the possibility of immense structural circumstances by the existence of a of .
iluid carried by a general current of wind .
The phenomena are thus summarised by Mr. Billet in the memoir referred " " On October 27 , 1913 , a severe thunderstorm swept the West of England and Wales , from the South of Devon to Cheshire , and developed locally into a tornado of exceptional violence . .
Such phenomcna were experienced for a distance of about 11 miles up the Tafl Valley in Glamorganshire , for about an equal distance in Shropshire , and for about 5 miles in Cheshire .
" " Violent meteorological phenomena were confined approximately to a straight line running almost due North from the South of Devon to Cheshire .
They did not exhibit themselves with equal intensity throughout the length VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. Sir N. Shaw .
of this line , but thero appear to have been four main regions of action:\mdash ; ( 1 ) South Devon , ( 2 ) South Wales , ( 3 ) Shropshire , ( 4 ) Cheshire The map which forms the frontispiece to the memoir , and which has been redrawn in fig. 7 , shows a cyclonic circulation round a centre to the west , over the Atlantic .
The relation of the geostrophic wind in the region of South Wales to the motion of translation of the revolving fluid is not quite satisfactor. .
The direction accords perfectly .
It appears from the text of the memoir that the velocity with which the violent disturbance travelled over its whole course from Devonshire to Cheshire varied from 34 miles an hour between Devon and South Wales to 37 miles an hour between South Wales and Cheshire .
The geostrophic wind computed for South Wales from the original of 6 , when the tornado was in that neighbourhood , was 39 miles per hour , which gave also quite good reement for tlJe speed .
But on the map , as redrawn for this paper in fig. 7 , the speed computed from the pair of isobars which cross South Wales is 48 miles per hour , which is certainly too fast for the tornado .
The diameter of the area of the damage varied apparently from 100 yards to 300 yards , and the barometers were not affected during the passage of the tornado by as much as 1 .
at a greater distance than two or three miles from the line of destruction , a little ftll'ther out only by a fraction of a millibar .
Close to the centre the effect uponl the was a sudden fall and recovery of 10 .
which took place within less than one minute .
There must therefore have been a very definite line of discontinuity marking off the area of rotational velocity from its environment .
In this case the localities where damage was done were localities of very heavy rainfall , arranged as shown on the map in a line nearly identical with the line which would have been followed by a column of revolving fluid carried by the general wind along isobars from Devonshire across South Wales to Cheshire .
The concentration in South Wales with its accompanying destructive progress seems to have been due to the convergence of the air within the moving column of fluid and to have furnished a good example of the progress of revolving fluid although the radius within which the whole operation was taking place at any moment was not large enough to affect the general run of the isobars on the map .
It is noteworthy that the period of destruction was preceded by a period of ominous calm during which the wind from the south appropriate to the isobars was arrested by the effect of the approaching whirl .
Thus it appears that it is possible occasionally to identify examples of revolving fluid in association with phellomena registered on the maps , although in some cases the region affected may be altogether too small to show on the map , and in other cases the revolving fluid may only be identified Revolving the Atmosphere .
TEMPERATURCS ARE IN DECREES FAHRENHEIT RAINFALL IN THE NElCHSOURFItOOD OF THE RACK THC DESTRUCT[VE WFI IRL FOR THE DAY OCT .
IS POTTED INES MARKEO IN the Atmosphere .
as a small secondary .
The identifiable cases are certainly not very frequent , but there may be others less conspicuous in their effects which are less easily found .
We are thus able to draw a definite distinction between the cyclonic or anticyclonic motion as exhibited in the atmosphere and cases of revolving fluid motion .
In the latter thers is rotation about the vertical axis and the whole mass of revolving fluid c , arried along bodily in a current of air which has a velocity ) with its position in the main cyclonic system and which cttn be related to the run and the distance apart of the .
There discontinuity of velocity between this current and the otating mass , and there is relation between the velocity of wind in the whirl and the velocity of translation in which the whirl travels over the country .
the case of a cyclonic depression the travel over the country is a part of the motion of the wind in the cyclone itself .
There is no discontinuity of velocity .
The wind so moves that each part of it revolves about a centre which has a motion of translation .
The rate of progress of the centre depends upon the curvature of the path of the ai-r in the cyclone , and the motion of the centre is apparently due to the fact that the cyclostrophic component of the pressure is governed by the radius of curvature of the path and not by the radius of the circle of instantaneous motion .
The motion in a cyclonic depression is , therefore , of a type f'rom that of motion in a circle with a superposed velocity of translation .
1917.\mdash ; Since this paper written the author has had advantage of a proof of a paper on Tornadoes in the United States , by Prof. R. de C. Ward , of Harvard University , which is to appear in the ' Quarterly Journal of the loyal Meteorological Society ' for July .
here is a remarkable similarity between the terms used by Prof. Ward to describe the conditions in which tornadoes are found to occur and those used in this paper in respect of the occurrence of columns of revulving fluid : so much so as to leave little or no doubt that tornadoes are columns of revolving fluid developed locally in the southern portions of large cyclones and carried along with the ordinary wind of the cyclone in which they are formed .
]

