Further Researches on the Preservation of Metals by Electro-chemical Means .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 9 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 328 .
] After adverting to the general details respecting the ; protection of the copper sheathing of ships , contained in his former papers , the President proceeds , in the present communication , to consider the circumstances under which various substances are deposited upon the protecting copper , and their general influence upon its wear , more especially in regard to ships in motion .
For this purpose , he availed himself of the use of a steam boat , employed on an expedition to ascertain some points of longitude in the North Seas , and his inquiries lead to the inference that motion does not affect the nature of the limits and quantity of the protecting metal ; and that , independently of the chemical , there is likewise a mechanical wear of the copper in sailing .
In examining the results of some of the experiments upon the effects of single masses of protecting metal on the sheeting , the author observed , that in some cases the corrosion seemed to increase with the distance from the protector .
It became , therefore , necessary to investigate this circumstance , and to ascertain the extent of the diminution of electrical action in instances of imperfect or irregular conducting surfaces .
Sir Humphry details several experiments in illustration of this inquiry , which prove that any diminution of protecting effect at a distance does not depend upon the nature of the metallic , but of the imperfect or fluid conductor .
His experiments upon perfect and imperfect conductors led him to another inquiry , important in its practical relations , respecting the nature of the contact between the copper and the preserving metal .
He found the protecting action prevented by the thinnest stratum of air , or the finest leaf of talc or dry paper ; but the ordinary coating of rust , or a thin piece of moistened paper , did not impair it .
After some experimental details respecting the electro-chemical powers of metals in solutions excluded from air , Sir Humphry concludes his paper with practical inferences and theoretical elucidations arising out of its general details .
Finding that in certain cases of imperfect connexion , the influence of the protector was weakened by distance , the author proposed that when ships with old sheathing were to be protected , a greater proportion of iron should be used , and if possible more distributed .
The advantage of this plan was strikingly shown in the Semerang , which had been coppered in India in the year 1821 , and came into dock , in the spring of 1824 , covered with rust , weeds , and zoophytes ; she was protected by four masses of iron , equal in surface to about one 80th of the copper , two of which were near the stern , and two on the bows .
She made a voyage to Nova Scotia , and returned in January 1825 ; not , as was falsely reported , covered with weeds and barnacles , but remarkably clean and in good condition .
After citing other instances of the perfect efficiency of the protectors , and adverting to the relative proportion which , in different circumstances , they ought to bear to the sheathing of the vessel , and to the most advantageous methods of applying them , the author concludes by observing upon the importance of selecting perfectly pure copper for the sheathing ; of applying it smoothly and equably ; and of using for its attachment nails of pure copper , and not of mixed metal .

