Fig.3 .
Plaga Orientalis .
Plaga Meridionalis .
C D ~ .
XIV .
A Letter from the Revd Ebenezar Latham , V. D. M. and M. D. to C. Mortimer , M. D. S. R. S. concerning the true Delineation of the Asterisms in the ancient Sphere .
SIR , I Was obliged , by the Favour of yours , with Number 447 .
of the Transactions , by which I find we have the Globe of the Heavens already contrived for the Use I intended .
I never heard of Mr. Senex 's Invention , ib. No 447 .
before the Hint yours gave me , and am pleased with the Opportunity I had of producing it to the World .
It is many Years since I first thought of this Method , and have often suggested it to some Students .
The Dispute that arose about Sir Isaac Newton 's Chronological Index , communicated by Abbe Conti , confirmed my Opinion of the Advantage that would attend it ; especially the Admonition our learned Dr. Halley gave Father Souciet , ( ` ` to inform himself in the Sphaeriques , so as to give us the right Ascension of the Stars truly from their given Latitude and Longitude ' ' ) made me yet more sensible how necessary something of this kind was , to let common Readers into the Merits of the Controversy .
But it was perfectly accidental , that I ever presumed to mention at all to your Learned Body , this Alteration in the Construction of the Globes , which I had so often wished might obtain for the Use of several Sciences .
You will receive , with this , one Scheme , among several , which I have projected , that is nearest Mr. Senex 's , and least defaces the Globe , which I submit to your Judgment , as to the Conveniences that attend it .
TA B. VI .
Fig. I. A Vertical Section of the Globe .
P. P. The Poles of the diurnal Motion .
A. The Axle of the Globe , which terminates in the Poles of the Ecliptic , and receives the other End of the Brass Arms upon each of its Pivots .
AE .
A brass Equator fixed to the brazen Meridian .
K. K. A Key , which , on Occasion , being put through a Hole in the Brazen Meridian , is just over the Place where the Poles of the Ecliptic pass , by means of a square Hole in the Head of a Screw , serves to fix that End of the Brass Arm , or give it Liberty to move with Ease : And the Key , being left in when the Screw is slackened , will hinder the Globe from moving on the Poles of its diurnal Motion , till you have adjusted it to your Mind , straitened the Screw again , and taken out the Keys ; as may be seen more plainly in , Fig. II .
Which is nothing but the Windlass Part , or the Arm , Pole , and Part of the strong Axis of the Globe , with the Screw and Key more at large , and separate from one another for the more distinct View .
If I may take the Liberty to add any thing farther on this Head , next to the accurate Observation of the British Catalogue in placing the Stars themselves , it should be the Revival of the ancient Figures and Colours , as far as we can recover them .
It is certain the Invention was very ancient , if we suppose the Descriptions Eudoxus has given us , taken from Observations long before his Time , when the Solstitial Colure passed through the Middle of the Great Bear , and the Crab through the Neck of Hydra , and cut the Ship between the Poop and the Mast , &amp;c. -Now I have mentioned the Ship , you will indulge a Conjecture , that the Situation of this [ just on the Horizon ( where they imagined the Sea ) in an erect sailing Posture for some Eastern Expedition , and terminating their farthest View to the South ] , may both give some Light into their Latitude , that imposed this Name , and ( from that , which must have been the Place of the Pole to answer this Form ) the AEra of Time , wherein it was done ; for , in the present Disposition , the Inhabitants of Greece could not have a proper View of that Constellation , or be led to form it in the Manner the Ancients have done .
I shall not here urge all the Difficulties in the old Descriptions , that might have a Solution from this Method ; but if an Alteration could be made either in the Colour or Attitude of the Figures , to answer them better , it would add to the Pleasure of reading some Authors , and , together with that new Construction , might afford us such a View of the Heavens , as Mr. Addison had of Italy , when he made the Tour of it with the Classics in his Hands : And , since I have brought those Writings into the Account , you will allow me to cite some Passages , which might receive both Truth and Beauty from such an Improvement : Where Homer says , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
~ .
487 .
The Pleiads , Hyads , with the Northern Team , And great Orion 's more refulgent Beam ; To which around the Axle of the Sky , The Bear revolving points his golden Eye , Still shines exalted on th ' ethereal Plain , Nor bathes his blazing Forehead in the Main .
Pope .
Mr. Pope , amidst a small Mistake of the Sex , keeps only the Forehead above Water ; but the Poet seems to exempt her entirely ; and so does Virgil , when he makes Fear account for the same Phenomenon , that Ovid ( who preserves all the Fable of the Ancients ) ascribes to Force .
Maximus hic Flexu sinuoso elabitur Anguis Circum , perque duas in morem fluminis Arctos : Arctos Oceani metuentes AEquore tingi .
Virgil .
Georg .
Lib. I. 244 .
Around our Pole the spiry Dragon glides , And like a winding Stream the Bears divides , The Less , and Greater , who by Fate 's Decree Abhor to dive beneath the ~ Southern Sea .
Dryden .
~ Northern .
Nuper honoratas summo mea Vulnera Caelo Videritis Stellas illic , ubi Circulus Axem Ultimus extremum Spatioque brevissimus ambit .
Ovid .
Met .
Lib. II .
515 .
-New Stars you 'll see , In this approaching Night 's Obscurity , With hateful Beams i'th ' Arctic Circle shine .
He immediately adds , At vos si laesae contemptus tangit Alumnae , * Gurgite caeruleo septem prohibete Triones : Sideraque in Caelo stupri mercede recepta Pellite , no puro tingatur in AEquore Pellex .
-527 .
Ne'er let those spurious Stars approach the Deep , Nor in the purging Ocean 's Bosom sleep , [ keep .
But their eternal Stain , their whorish Tincture And when he describes them as a Team , it is with the same Reserve .
Tum primum Radiis gelidi caluere Triones , Et vetito frustra tentarunt AEquore tingi .
-171 .
Then the Sev'n Stars first felt Apollo 's Ray , And wished to dip in the forbidden Sea .
All which is a proper Hint for the Disposition of the Globe , that must correspond to these Appearances * In the Ordeal by Water , it was adjured , not to receive the Guilty , in Terms like these .
then , and which can only be obtained by this Method : By the Help of which we may also apprehend the Light these Descriptions give us into the Age of the Writers .
I may illustrate this from Hesiod 's Account of the Seasons , of which we have not only a better Idea by this artificial Disposition of the Globe to answer them , but also of the Time wherein he lived , when we come to adjust the Heavens to the accurate Instructions he gives us , according to his Latitude at Ascra , allowing 50~ per Annum for the apparent Motion of the Stars .
~ ~ ~ ~ ` ~ .
''~ .
~ .
~ .
182 .
When the glad Sun , approaching with his Rays , Has from the Tropic run out Sixty Days , Arcturus , rising from his sacred Bed , Is first discovered in the Ev'ning Shade .
~ ~ , '~ ~~~ '~ .
227 .
But when Orion , and the Dog-Star , come To the Mid-region of the heav'my Dome , The Morn , that blushing draws away the Night , Beholds Arcturus in the dawning Light .
If we fix the Pole almost in the Mid-way between the Star in the Shoulder of the lesser Bear , and another of the Serpent , we shall have the Satisfaction to observe all these Phenomenon answer the Descrip5 C2 tion .
tion .
I shall not enter into the Calculation ; for I would not anticipate the Pleasure , one , that hath no Notion of the Age of Hesiod , must have , when he finds himself able , with so much Ease and Precision , to determine it by these Characters * .
Hesiod 's Account of the Pleiads is too particular not to demand our Attention , and require an Explanation in the same way ~ .
~ ~ ~ ~ .
` ~ .
''~ .
~ .
~ .
1 .
Be* Since I wrote this , I had the Pleasure to find Scaliger concur with meHesiodus florebat eo Saeculo , quo Arcturus ~ oriebatur in Baeotia , viij .
Die Marii .
Si quid ~ ad Conjecturam facit , saltem apud excellentes Astro'ogos , qui ex hoc Parapegmate infra septuaginta plus minus Annos Saeculum Hesiodi deprehendere possunt .
Animadvers .
in Chron. Eusebii , p. 67 .
Edit .
Lugd. Batav .
1606.The following Passage in Sir Isaac Newton 's Chron. p. 95 .
hath come to my Hands since the former .
` ` Hesiod tells us , that , 60 Days after the Winter Solstice , the Star Arcturus rose just at Sun-set ; and thence it follows , that Hesiod flourished about 100 Years after the Death of Solomon , or in the Generation or Age next after the Trojan War , as Hesiod himself declares .
' ' It is what we may compute by the present Globe ; for , bringing Arcturus to the Eastern Horizon , the Sun we shall find in the Ninth Degree of Aries .
Now it enters ~ Dec. 11 .
and 60 Days after , or Feb. 10 .
it is in ~ ~ .
30~ .
when allowing for the Northern Latitude of Arcturus to make it visible on the Horizon , its Longitude must have been ~ 140 , &amp;c. whereas its Place now is about ~ 200 .
27~ .
12~ .
And the Difference both ways one Sign 60 .
18~ .
&amp;c. which makes him to have lived 2614 Years ago .
~ Hisce Signis veteres Agricolae , &amp; ex eorum Traditionibus Scriptores rei rusticae , nec non &amp; Medici , Poetae , &amp; Historici sunt usi ad Anni Tempestates designandas , &amp;c. Greg .
Astron. p. 130 .
Begin the Harvest , as the Pleiads rise , [ Skies ; And take the Plough , when they withdraw the For Forty Days and Nights their glimm'ring Light , Obscured to us , no longer cheers the Sight .
To this I might add Homer 's Image of the DogStar , but especially the exact Description in Hesiod .
~ ~ E ' .
5 .
Like the red Star , that fries th'autumnal Skies , When fresh he rears his radiant Orb to Sight ; And , bathed in Ocean , shoots a keener Light .
--~ ~ ~ ~ 35 .
For then the Dog-Star governs in his Course , Walks o'er the Heads of Men , who feel his Force , Comes in the Day , but chiefly shares the Night .
How beautifully does the same Writer express the Gesture of Orion , as he is following the Pleiads ?
~ ~ 237 The Pleiads , flying from the threat'ning Scourge Of strong Orion , plunge into the Surge .
Perhaps this may give some Light to a Passage of Virgil , that hath very much puzzled his Commentators .
Taygete simul Os terris ostendit honestum Pleias , &amp; Oceani spretos pede reppulit Amnes : Aut eadem Sidus fugiens , ubi Piscis aquosi Tristior hybernas Caelo descendit in Undas .
Georg .
Lib. 4 .
232 .
First , when the pleasing Pleiades appear , And springing upward spurn the briny Seas : Again when their affrighted Choir surveys The watery Scorpion mend his Pace behind , With a black Train of Storms , and Winter-wind , They plunge into the Deep , and safe Protection find .
Dryden .
Some , I know , by this Sidus understand the Southern Fish , others the Hydra , and some the Sun ; but how Mr. Dryden came to insert Scorpio , I shall not inquire .
Nor shall I trouble you with any Conjectures with regard to the ancient Figures : It is certain there have been Variations in this respect , since Ptolemy mentions a Star in the Horn of Aries ; and it is thought Hipparchus reckoned one , that is now in the Line , to the first Foot of Aries * .
Whether the Epithet Ovid gives Capella , does not imply some little Difference , in the Situation of it , from ours , I leave to the Critics .
-Et * Since I wrote this , I find Sir Isaac Newton , in this way , recover to their former Places the Stars below , by rectifying the Delineation .
In the extreme Fluxure of Eridanus , a Star of the Fourth Magnitude , of late referred to the Bosom of Cetus .
In the Head of Perseus , a Star of the Fourth Magnitude .
In the Right Hand of Perseus , a Star of the Fourth Magnitude .
In the Neck of Hydrus , a Star of the Fourth Magnitude .
In the Left Hand of Cepheus , one of the Fifth Magnitude .
' ' All whose Characters he designs from Bayer .
-Et Oleniae Sidus pluviale Capellae , Taygetenque , Hyadasque Oculis , Arctonque not avi .
Met .
Lib. III .
594 .
-I began to note The stormy Hyades , the rainy * Goat , The bright Taygite , and the shining Bears , With all the Sailors Catalogue of Stars .
I might insist on the Etymology of Arcturus , and others ; for it appears from the Accounts the Ancients themselves give us , there was not always the greatest Uniformity in their Drawings .
Ovid says of Boots , ---- &amp; te tua Plaustra tenebant .
Lib. 2 .
177 .
Nay , and it is said , Boots , too , that fain Thou would'st have fled , though encumbered with thy Wain .
Addison .
And he lets us know , that Scorpio took up 60~ .
Est Locus , in geminos ubi Brachia concavat Arcus Scorpios ; &amp; Cauda , flexisque utrinque Lacertis , Porrigit in Spatium Signorum Membra duorum .
-195 .
There is a Place above , where Scorpio , bent In Tail , and Arms , surrounds a vast Extent ; In a wide Circuit of the Heavens he shines , And fills the Space of Two celestial Signs .
This might be one Reason of that Compliment which Virgil paid Augustus , apart from the other , which Scaliger assigns.* Elbow 'd .
Anne novum tardis sidus te mensibus addas , Qua locus Erigonen inter , Chelasque sequentes Panditur ?
ipse tibi jam Brachia contrahit ardens Scorpius , &amp; Caeli justa plus part reliquit .
Georg .
Lib. I. 32 .
Where in the Void of Heaven a Space is free , Betwixt the Scorpion , and the Maid , for the : The Scorpion , ready to receive thy Laws , Yields half his Region , and contracts his Claws .
It 's true , this Poet knew Libra very well ; but , perhaps , it made no great Figure among the Asterisms then .
Libra die somnique pares ubi fecerit horas , Et medium Luci , atque Umbris jam dividet Orbem .
-208 .
But when Astraea 's Balance , hung on high , Betwixt the Nights and Days divides the Sky .
Dryden .
How Taurus was painted at that Time , we learn from his Description .
* Candidus auratis aperit cum Cornibus Annum Taurus , &amp; averso cedens Canis occidit Astro .
-217 .
* By reason the First Month of the old Luni-solar Year ( on account of the intercalary Month ) began sometimes a Fortnight after the AEquinox .
This may , perhaps , account better for the Propriety of Virgil 's Expression Aperit Annum , than any of his Commentators have done .
When with his golden Horns , in full Career , The Bull beats down the Barriers of the Year ; And Argos , and the Dog , forsake the Northern Sphere .
In the last Verse we have , perhaps , no Occasion for Heinsius 's Correction of adverso , if we compare the Diction here with Ovid 's .
Per tamen adversi gradieris Cornua Tauri .
Met .
Lib. II .
80 .
The Bull 's opposing Horns obstruct the Way .
The Instructions Virgil gives in the same Place , as to Husbandry , are best understood from this new Disposition , and may render us sensible how much earlier these Phenomenon were then in the Year , to what they are at present * .
Ante tibi Eoae Atlantides abscondantur , &amp;c. Georg .
Lib. I. 221 .
But if your Care to Wheat alone extend , Let Maia with her Sisters first descend , And the bright Gnosian Diadem downward bend .
I know we cannot depend upon all the Exactness in a Poet , that might be expected from an Astronomer : But Virgil seems to have made it his favourite Study .
* Paulatim Observatio hujus Ortus &amp; Occasus neglecta jacet , nec ab aliis usurpatur , quam a Poetis , qui tempora per Circumstantias tam varii Ortus &amp; Occasus tot Syderum ( quibus nihil pulchrius ) describere , &amp; veluti pingere solent , quamvis plerumque erronee , quippe qui Calendarii nostri Diem per ejusdem Stellae Ortum describunt nunc , per quem describebatur tempore Caesaris , cum tamen tempora discrepent 14 diebus fere .
Greg .
Astron. p. 132 .
Me vero primum dulces ante omnia Musae , Quarum sacra fero ingenti perculsus Amore , Accipiant ; Caelique Vias , &amp; Sydera monstrent .
Lib. II .
475 .
Would you your Poet 's first Petition hear , Give me the Ways of wand'ring Stars to know .
Ovid appears also perfectly acquainted with the ancient Figures , and the most accurate way of delineating them , at the same time that he enlivens them with their Fictions .
Consistuntque Loco , Specie remanente Coronae , Qui medius nixique Genu , anguemque tenentis .
Met .
VIII .
181 .
--The Crown retains Its proper Figure , and a Station gains Where Hercules in bending Posture stands , And strives to gripe the Dragon in his Hands .
Vid. Lib. XIV .
846 .
How he came by the Account , it is not material to inquire ; but there is one Line , wherein he seems to have preserved some ancient Tradition , as to the Pole .
Quaeque Polo posita est glaciali proxima Serpens .
Lib. II .
173 .
The folded Serpent next the frozen Pole .
And there is Reason to believe one of the Stars of that Constellation was the ancient Polar Star , and might first give Rise to the Denomination ; for one in the Tail of the Dragon , of the Third Magnitude , comes nearest it of any other .
About the Time of the Flood , it was within 10~ of the Pole , and might pass for the Polar Star a Thousand Years after among those Writers , from whom Ovid copied his Expression .
However , this is certain , that another Star of that Constellation , one of the Fourth Magnitude , was really nearer than any other , when the old Observations were made , which literally justifies Ovid 's Account .
I might take notice of his exact Representation of the Disposition of the Ara , and Anguis , when he makes them the Two Extremes .
----Medio tutissimus ibis : Neu te dexterior tortum declinet in Anguem , Never sinisterior pressam Rota ducat ad Aram .
Inter utrumque ten .-ib .
137 .
The middle Way is best .
Nor where in radiant Folds the Serpent twines Direct your Course , nor where the Altar shines .
Shun both Extremes .
But the Inspection of the Globe , when it is fixed in a proper Position , will convey the best Idea of all these Appearances ; for we derive this Advantage from the new Construction of it , that it will enable us to place the several Phenomenon before every Eye ; by which means those who have the least Acquaintance with these Studies , must be greatly surprised and pleased to observe the ancient Accounts minutely verified .
It is a sort of living over again the former Ages , allowing 1~ .
23~ .
30~ .
for every hundred Years , according to Ricciolus and Flamsted , which is a sort of Mean between the other Computations .
I shall not now suggest some other Purposes , that might be served by this Method .
It is sufficient to recommend the Invention , that it throws so much Light on the common Classics , to which I have confined this Examination , and which must be my Excuse for the Citations .
I am , with great Respect , The ROYAL SOCIETY'S and your most obedient humble Servant , E. Latham .

