492 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
" On a New Form of Febrile Disease associated with the presence of an Organism distributed with Milk from the Oldmill Reformatory School , Aberdeen .
" By J. Cossar Ewart , M.D. , Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received and Read June 16 , 1881 .
History of the Outbreak.\#151 ; On the 1st of April one of my servants was prostrated with a peculiar fever , which at first seemed to be a severe attack of influenza .
No special treatment was indicated , and it did not appear necessary to call in a medical attendant .
When , however , on the following day a child of nine months was attacked in the same way , I felt alarmed , and at once proceeded to inquire as to the nature of the disease , and as to its probable origin .
I soon heard of about twenty other cases , all suffering in the same way , and all living under similar conditions and in the same neighbourhood , using the same water , and , without exception , all obtaining their milk from the same dairy .
Knowing how often milk has been a means of disseminating fever organisms , I secured the milk on delivery the next morning ( April 3 ) , that I might examine it microscopically , and subject it to other tests , should such seem necessary .
Further inquiry carried on by Dr. Beveridge , Chairman of the Aberdeen Town Council Health Committee , showed that the same fever followed fast in the track of the milk-cart from the Oldmill Reformatory School .
Out of 110 families supplied with Oldmill milk , at least 89 suffered from this peculiar fever ; there being 220 cases in 66 of these families ; in all , about 320 individuals are known to have suffered .
Careful inquiry failed to discover a single case where the Oldmill milk had not been in use in one form or another .
The fever seems to have made its appearance on the 25th of March , but to have made but slow progress until the 1st of April , when 13 cases were reported .
On the 2nd of April 22 cases were reported ; there were 22 more on the 3rd of April , 31 on the 4th of April , 27 on the 5th April , 50 on the 6th April , and 16 on the 7th April .
By the 6th April many families had ceased to use the Oldmill milk , arid on the 7th April the Directors of the Reformatory stopped the supply .
On the day the supply was stopped , 16 fresh cases were reported .
On the 8th April 6 were reported , another was reported on the 9th April , and the only other known case wTas reported on the 13th April .
From the evidence given before the Commissioners , appointed under the Public Health ( Scotland ) Act to investigate the nature and On a New Form of Febrile Disease .
cause of the epidemic , it appeared that some of the famd.es which escaped had been supplied with milk of a very supenor quality ; whereas many of those who suffered from the disease deponed that the milk delivered to them looked and tasted as if it had eithei been adulterated with water or with skimmed milk .
In other families which escaped it was only used for cooking purposes , or the clue sunplv of milk was obtained from other sources , or only a very small quantity of cream was used .
In many cases the individual members of affected families who escaped were in the habit of using the mi ' only after it had been cooked or boiled .
In my own household ot eight , two escaped who were in the habit of using boiled milk only .
Symptoms\#151 ; In the cases which came under my observation , I noticed the following symptoms 1 .
A well-marked rigor , with a feeling of chilliness , lasting from ten to fifteen hours ; headache , pain in the hack and limbs , and often nausea and vomiting .
0 , 2 .
Sudden rise of temperature varying from 103 to 10* , and even reaching sometimes 105 ' F. 3 .
Hot dry skin , and a pulse of 120 to 125 .
4 .
A feeling of uneasiness in the neck , accompanied in same cases with congestion of the fauces and tonsils .
5 Enlargement of the cervical glands lying between the angle ot the iaw and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle\#151 ; the glands of one side were usually more affected than those on the ^"complete remission of the febrile symptoms for twenty-four to thirty-six hours , but marked prostration during the remission .
7 .
This period was followed by a return , in nearly all the cases , ot the hi'h temperature , which lasted from twenty to thirty-six hours .
In many cases , after the second remission , there was a third relapse , and in not a few cases a fourth relapse .
In those cases m wine 1 a relapse took place , the glands least affected during the first attack were most affected during the second attack .
8 .
In all cases there was a very slow recovery from the prostration .
Although the outbreak began on the 25th of March , some of t ose attacked are still ( I3th June ) suffering from sequelae , to be afterwards rsferred to* Perhaps the most characteristic and constant feature of the disease was the swelling of the cervical glands at the angle of the jaw .
Further , there was an indurated condition apparently of the fibrous structures ' in front of the sterno-mastoid , extending as far as the clavicle , and sometimes upwards , so as to appear to involve t ie parotid gland .
In most cases this induration slowly disappeared , but in at least three cases it has ended in suppuration .
In many cases , after convalescence had fairly set in , there were 494 : Prof. J. C. Ewart .
frequent relapses characterised chiefly by great prostration which lasted from two to three days , and not a few suffered from attacks of a condition closely resembling muscular and articular rheumatism There were three fatal cases .
It is to be remarked , however , that these patients were elderly people ( over seventy years of age)* and that they seem to have succumbed to the prostration produced by the disease .
Arrangements at the Dairy .
The microscopic examination of the milk of the 3rd April showed that it contained numerous organisms ; hence I visited the dairy in order if possible to learn how these organisms could have found their way into the milk .
The cows , as far as I could judge , were perfectly healthy , their udders clean , and no abrasion about the muzzles such as exist in cattle affected with foot-and-mouth disease .
The food at the time of my visit consisted of hay , straw , grains ( " draff " ) , bran , oilcake , and turnips .
The drinking water came from a cistern which was placed in a corner of the large open byre immediately over the heads of several cows .
The cistern was made of concrete and only loosely covered with a thin wooden lid , consisting of at least two separate pieces , which had at one time been connected by a leather hinge .
This cistern was capable of containing about 300 gallons of water .
On further inquiry i found that all the water used about the dairy for washing the cans , tor dissolving the nitrate of potash added to the milk , came from this cistern , and that somewhere about 600 gallons of water were used daily ; hence the level of the water would be constantly falling and rising in the cistern , and the air from the byre constantly passing in and out of the cistern .
Two days previous to my visit the use of the cistern had been discontinued .
On going into the cistern I found a small quantity of water at the bottom , and secured a sample of it for future examination .
I noticed also that fungi flourished on the inside of the wooden lid , and that some parts of the sides of the cistern , notwithstanding the scrubbing the cistern had just undergone , were coated with a thin layer of what might at one time have been a scum on the surface\#151 ; a scum formed during the winter or during February , when the water supply was cut off for several days .
The hay used for feeding the cows was cut into small pieces and steamed in a large tank before it was used .
After being steamed it was allowed vo cool and then conveyed to the byre in wooden troughs .
Fnough was steamed at a time to last for two or three days .
The day after the steaming the bottom of the tank was found to be filled with a strong infusion of hay .
Some of this infusion I carried off for examination .
On the same level as this tank , and only separated from it by a narrow partition , was a tank of about the same size , which was used On a New Form of Febrile Disease .
for keeping the grains used .
The manager informed me that he considered the grains of the previous week to be of very mfenor quality .
The turnips , considering the season of the year and it severity of the winter , looked well .
The general impression produced on me by my visit was that the water was at fault .
This impression was strengthened by the follow-in- circumstances :-(l .
) The dairymaid had recently complained that the water had a very bad smell ; ( 2 .
) The manager gave it as his decided opinion that the water had been the cause of the epidemic , and ( 3 ) On chemical analysis by Mr. Jamieson , the city analyst , it was found to contain a large quantity of " albuminoid ammonia/ Mr. Jamieson reported that " the contamination which the water as supplied to Aberdeen has suffered takes it from the 'excellent into the ' dangerous ' class ; while the harmless ingredients remain at nearly the same point , the injurious ingredients have been trebled .
The following is the result of the chemical analysis by Mr. Jamieson:\#151 ; Total solids containing ... . .
Chlorine ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Free ammonia ... ... .- ... ... . .
" Albuminoid ammonia " ... ... . .
Nitric anhydride ... ... ... ... Sulphate of lime and carbonaceous matter ... ... ... ... ... .
Grains per gallon .
4-7 Parts per million .
67-143 10 143 0 029 0-212 3-857 Results of Microscopic Investigations .
1 .
The Milk.\#151 ; Professor Brazier reported of a sample of milk sent him for examination on 5th April as follows .
" " The sample of milk , chemically considered , appeared to be one of fair average quality .
The proportion of water and of saline matter was by no means abnormal and gave no reason for suspec mg any admixture or adulteration therewith .
The only thing t la a rac \#174 ; my attention was the somewhat rank odour possessed by the milk , which manifested itself the more by allowing the milk to rest ioi a time in a vessel half-full and loosely covered .
" On microscopic examination of the milk delivered on Sunday , 3rd April , I found\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Numerous micrococci .
Some of them were free and not readily recognised , but many were united so as tofoim e characteristic \#171 ; micrococci chains , " while others were grouped together , forming zoogloea .
Prof. J. C. Ewart .
( 2 .
) Numerous spores of fungi and cells of the yeast plant .
( 3 .
) Spores similar to the spores of On examining milk purchased from another dairy and milk sent from the Oldmill Dairy on Wednesday , 6th April , after the alarm had been raised about the milk , and the use of the cistern discontinued , it was impossible to detect with the microscope either micrococci or the spores of bacteria or fungL 2 .
Water from the cistern in the byre contained numerous yeast cells , fungus spores , and a few micrococci , , but I was unable to detect any spores of bacteria .
3 .
The infusion from the hay tank teemed with bacilli , ordinary bacteria , micrococci , and " micrococci chains , " and there were also numerous filaments in process of development , and numerous yeast-cells .
4 .
Hay infusion recently made contained bacilli , bacteria , and micrococci , but only a small number of yeast cells .
5 .
The grains contained bacilli , bacteria , and micrococci , but especially the cells of Torula .
6 .
The soft centre of a turnip presented a few ordinary bacteria and a few bacilli .
Results of Cultivations .
1 .
3rd of April .
Oldmill Milk.\#151 ; On cultivating the milk referred to above in aqueous humour the micrococci became very active , and many of them assumed a dumb-bell shape , which indicated that they were in process of multiplication .
The spores previously observed began to germinate and in a few hours fully developed rods made their appearance .
The bacilli , as is usually the case with B. anthracis , remained motionless , any apparent oscillation resulting from the active movements of the micrococci around them .
In from fourteen to twenty hours the bacilli began to lengthen , but , probably owing to the abundant presence of micrococci , their development was arrested in this and in all subsequent cultivations of the milk before they reached the spore-bearing stage .
On cultivating in the same way\#151 ; ( 1 ) Milk sent from Oldmill on the 6th April ; ( 2 ) Milk collected directly from two Oldmill cows in clean stoppered bottles on the 27th April ; and ( ^3 ) Milk from another dairy ( Cowie ) , no bacilli made their appearance ; there were , however , in ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) a few ordinary bacteria ( B. termo and numerous micrococci .
On cultivating the Oldmill hay infusion , the fresh hay infusion , the grains and turnips , there was a considerable increase in the number of bacilli , bacteria , and micrococci , and in the case of the grains and Oldmill hay infusion a great increase of the Torula cells , and many of the fungus spores germinated into branching filaments .
On a New Form of Febrile Disease .
Pathological Results .
First Series of Experiments .
a. Inoculated rat with distilled water .
No result .
b. Inoculated rat with milk from Cowie Dairy .
No result .
c. Inoculated rat with cultivated milk from Cowie Dairy .
No result .
d. Inoculated rat with milk from Oldmill Dairy , taken on 27th April .
No result .
e. Inoculated rat with milk , 27th April , after cultivation .
No result .
/ .
Inoculated rat with Oldmill milk of 3rd April , containing spores , micrococci , and Torulaa .
g. Inoculated rat with milk of 3rd April , after cultivation , containing bacilli , short filaments , micrococci , and Torulse .
Death followed in both cases from fifteen to twenty hours after inoculation .
After several failures , I succeeded in obtaining a cultivation from near the seat of inoculation , containing bacilli only , or at least very few micrococci .
In due time the bacilli developed mto spore-bearing filaments .
Inoculation with the spores from this cultivation produced the same result as the milk and the milk cultivations / and y , but the spores were slower in their action , and now ( 7th June ) the fatal result does not follow until four days after inoculation with cultivated spores , Second Series of Experiments .
Other rats were inoculated with the fresh hay infusion , with the turnip infusion , with an infusion of grains , with the Oldmill hay infusion , and with distilled wafer .
No result followed except in one instance .
A rat , twenty-five hours after inoculation with the Oldmill hay infusion , was found dead .
I have not had time to complete this series of experiments .
Third Series of Experiments .
From one of the cases in which the induration in the neck ended in suppuration , , I obtained a small quantity of pus , antiseptically collected and sealed in vaccine tubes .
On examination the pus was seen to contain a number of bacilli and spores , which exact y resembled the spores previously found in the 3rd April Oldmill milk .
On placing a very small drop of this pus in a cell and introducing the cell into a warm chamber , the spores germinated and some of the rods lengthened into filaments , but the filaments have not .
yet ( i3t i June ) developed spores .
, Pus collected in the same way , but apparently containing neit er bacilli nor their spores , has not , under cultivation , undergone any change .
Presents .
With an absolutely new syringe , I inoculated\#151 ; ( 1 ) a rat with a very small quantity of the pus containing the bacilli and spores ; the pus was taken from the capillary vaccine tube , and dissolved in a few drops of distilled water ; ( 2 ) another rat was inoculated with the pus in which there were no bacilli ; and ( 8 ) a rat was inoculated with distilled water .
The rat inoculated with the pus containing the bacilli was found dead the third day after the inoculation , the other rats are still alive .
In the tissues of the rat which died are numerous bacilli , which , on cultivation , lengthen into spore-bearing filaments .
I have not been able to detect any special lesions in the rats which succumbed to the several inoculations .
The right side of the heart is engorged , and the subcutaneous tissue , especially around the seat of inoculation and in the cervical region , is infiltrated with colourless blood-corpuscles , but the alimentary tract and spleen retain their normal appearances .
My investigations have led me to conclude\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That this disease ( which is considered by all the medical men in the district to be a new disease ) has been set up by an organism morphologically not unlike B. anthracis and having the same life history .
( 2 .
) That the organism was introduced into the milk after it left the udder of the cow .
( 3 .
) That the conditions in and around the dairy were such as would give special organisms , conveyed to the dairy in the grains or hay , every opportunity of developing and finding their way into the water cisterns .
In fact , the conditions were such that an innocuous organism might easily have assumed noxious properties .
Whether the washing of the milk cans with the infected water is sufficient to account for the outbreak , I am not prepared to say ; but judging from the immense number of organisms in the milk of the 3rd April , compared with the milk of 6th April , in which there were few if any organisms , I am inclined to believe that there must have been other channels through which the milk was infected .
Note.\#151 ; I am indebted to Professor Stephenson for the opportunity of experimenting with pus from one of the affected patients .
Presents , June 16 , 1881 .
Transactions .
Amsterdam:\#151 ; K. Zoologisch Genootschap ( Natura Artis Magistra ) .
Catalogus der Bibliotheek .
Royal 8vo .
Amsterdam 1881 .
The Society .
Baltimore :\#151 ; Peabody Institute .
Thirteenth Annual Report .
8vo .
Baltimore 1880 .
The Institute .

