3 .
" Formulization of Horary Observations presumed a priori to be nearly of a Periodic nature .
" By S. M. Drach , Esq. , F.R.A.S. , F.R.G.S. Communicated by Colonel Sabine , R.A. , Treas .
, V.P.R.S. &amp;c. Received March 18 , 1852 .
Referring to his former publications on the subject ( Proceed .
Roy .
Soc. March 1842 , Phil. Mag. 1842-51 ) , the author empirically resolves the formula ht= H+ 2Ai sin it + Zai cos it= H+ vSR sin ( it + 4 ) , h being the effect observed at the hour-angle t , thus obtaining from the 24 hourly observations all values up to i= 12 .
This method giving the values of A. , a. , R for the different months , he believes that by it the law of change connected with the sun 's motion in longitude and declination will be most readily deduced .
The formula is exemplified by calculations and results of the diurnal variation of magnetic declination for each month at the various Colonial Observatories , and also of the temperature at the Cape , St. Helena , Hobarton , Toronto , Greenwich , Leith , and Melville Island .
The author infers that the temperatures taken at six-hourly intervals give for their sum four times the mean temperature of the day , whatever be the commencing hour ; and thus travellers and voyagers observing at 5h , 1 1h , 17h and 23h , will get the mean temperature of their position at 2 P.M. Hence , from the communications of the captains of Merchantmen , the Atlantic oceanic temperatures might be mapped in the course of a year , and the isothermal curves on this broad level surface be accurately laid down ( see Journ. R. Geograph .
Soc. ix .
p. 369 ) .
Excepting at Melville Island , R , is the greatest coefficient , s1 is nearly constant , and H+ Ri sin ( it + i ) +cos 8t cos 2t ( F sin t+ G cos t ) will give the yearly formula : the homonymous hours are expressed by H+ 2 Ri sin ( it+ q ) as in the oceanic tides nearly .
At Melville Island , 3==45 ?
nearly and R3 is the greatest .
The semester from midwinter to midsummer is also nearly expressed by P+Q sin ( long .
for R , .
Having obtained the empirical R and 4 , or A and a , any theoretic formula can be tested by the results .

