Observations on the Shell of the Sea Worm found on the Coast of Sumatra , proving it to belong to a Species of Teredo ; with an Account of the Anatomy of the Teredo Navalis .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 1 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 276 .
] In the first part of this paper Mr. Home relates some further particulars respecting the sea worm shell from Sumatra , of which an account was , some time since , laid before this Society by Mr. Griffiths .
A specimen of one of these shells , five feet long , but imperfect at both ends , was given to Mr. Home by Capt. Maxwell ; and in order to remove all doubt respecting its nature , a part of it was analysed by Mr. Hatchett , who found that it was composed of carbonate of lime and an animal gelatinous substance , greater in quantity than in the Chama Gigas , but less than in the common oyster .
The subsequent discovery of two boring shells and two flattened opercula , sufficiently evinced that the shell here treated of belonged to the genus Teredo ; and as the internal structure and economy of Teredines are very little known , our author thought that nothing would tend more to enable us to form an adequate idea respecting this new species ( which he thinks may be called Teredo gigantea ) , than an accurate knowledge of the common species Teredo Navalis .
With this view , by the assistance of Sir Joseph Banks and Mr. Whitbey , Mr. Home obtained some pieces of wood , with live Teredines in them , from Sheerness .
By means of these , and of some specimens in the British and the &amp; Hunterian Museums , he has been enabled , with the assistance of Mr. Clift and Mr. Brodie , to give a very circumstantial description , accompanied by drawings , of the anatomy of the Teredo Navalis .
The Teredines brought from Sheerness , lived in salt water for the space of three days after being brought to town , during which time these animals were observed to throw out two small tubes ; the largest of which was about three fourths of an inch in length , and had , within its external orifice , a fringe composed of about twenty very small tentacula .
These tentacula were visible only when the tube was fully extended , because the animal drew in this tube by inverting it ; whereas the smaller tube was not inverted when drawn in .
The smallest of these tubes appeared to be the most sensible ; for the larger one did not always retract when touched , but upon touching the smaller one , both were instantly drawn in .
In examining the shell while in the wood , there appeared to be a small portion , nearly at right angles to the cylinder , sufficient only to give a passage to the two small tubes .
The shell was found , when analysed by Mr. Hatchett , to be perfectly similar to that of the Teredo gigantea .
The largest of these worms was 8 inches in length ; many of them lived 24 hours after separation from the shell ; in these the heart was distinctly seen to palpitate .
The blood in the vessels going to the head , and also in the parts near the liver , was of a red colour ; but this colour disappeared soon after death .
From the middle of the exposed part of the head proceeds a kind of proboscis .
As this has no orifice in it , Mr. Home thinks it probable that it adheres to the wood , and acts as a centre-bit , while the animal works with the boring shells , between which it is situated .
The mouth is nearly concealed by the projection of this proboscis .
The body of the animal terminates in a small double fold , forming a cup , on the inside of which are two opercula , which , when brought together , close up the shell : these opercula do not correspond to the tubes , but are in a contrary direction .
In the Teredo gigantea the opercula are situated in a similar manner , each shutting up one half of the bifurcation .
Some other observations , which our limits oblige us to omit , are made on these animals before Mr. Home proceeds to describe their internal structure as observed in the dissection .
Here also we must content ourselves with mentioning the most striking circumstances , referring those who wish for more particular information to the paper itself .
Into the cavity of the worm there are two natural openings ; one of these is the larger tube already described , by which it receives water from the sea ; the other is an aperture under the boring shells , forming a slit in a transverse direction , which opens into the space before the boring shells .
The breathing organs are attached on the posterior surface of this cavity , and have their fringed edges loose , and exposed to the sea water , which passes through this cavity to the head of the animal .
In the worms , which were examined while alive , the stomachs , which extend the whole length of the abdomen , were quite empty ; but in the stomachs of some of the preserved specimens there was found a yellow-coloured pulp , which , from some experiments made on it by Mr. Hatchett , appeared to be an impalpable vegetable saw-dust .
The intestine , after various inflections , terminates in the small tube , through which it empties its contents into the sea .
The heart consists of two auricles , which open into two tubes ; these uniting , form the ventricle .
The circulation is , of course , single ; but the mode in which it is performed seems to be peculiar to this animal ; the blood being thrown out from the heart , towards the viscera and the head , and carried afterwards through the vessels of the breathing organs , from which it returns directly to the heart .
The mode in which the breathing organs of this animal are supplied with water , makes it evident , in Mr. Home 's opinion , that all similar animals which have no cavity for the reception of sea water , must have their breathing organs placed externally ; and he thinks that the beautiful membranous expansions displayed by those species of Actiniae , called in the West Indies animal flowers , are , in fact , the breathing organs of those animals ; and not , as their appearance formerly led Mr. Home to believe , tentacula for catching food .
The Teredo gigantea , when arrived at its full growth , closes up its shell ; so also does the Teredo Navalis .
Hence Sellius was led to suppose that the animal , by this act , formed its own tomb .
This , however , is not the case ; since , in some specimens in Mr. Griffiths 's possession , the animal appears to have receded from its first enclosure , and to have formed a second , three inches up the tube , and afterwards a third , two inches further on .
These facts show that the Teredo gigantea , when arrived at its full growth , closesup its shell , and lives a long time afterwards , being furnished with food from the sea by means of its tentacula .
The Teredo Navalis closes up its shell in the same manner ; it must therefore , after that period , be supplied with food through the medium of the sea water ; and it is probable that the small tentacula , before described , are for the purpose of catching food .
As the Teredo gigantea bores in mud , from which it cannot be supposed to receive any part of its nutriment , it may be questioned whether the Teredo Navalis receives its support from the wood it destroys , or is wholly supplied with food from the sea .
The latter opinion appears to Mr. Home the most probable .
The quantity of wood taken into its stomach is , he thinks , by no means sufficient for the support of an animal which has red blood and very perfect organs .
He also remarks , that the saw-dust already spoken of did not appear to Mr. Hatchett to have undergone any change .
These animals , having only a slight connexion with their shell at one particular spot , are capable of turning themselves round in their shell ; this facility of motion seems evidently to be intended for the purpose of boring .

