XVI .
On the Ova of the different tribes of Opossum and Ornithorhynchus .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read March,5 , 1819 .
Now it is determined that the ova of quadrupeds in general are formed in corpora lutea , and that in all such animals the ova become attached to the uterus , and by this means the foetus receives its support and increase ; we are enabled to ascertain the modes of formation of the ova of the opossum tribes , which from the want of this previous knowledge have not been investigated with the smallest degree of success .
This becomes the best apology that can be made for the failure of every former attempt .
In this enquiry it will be found , that the ova of all the animals of these tribes are not formed in the same manner , and that the differences met with , make two distinct links between quadrupeds in general and the ornithorhynchi ; these again approach so nearly to the bird , as to complete the links of gradation between the human species and the feathered race , so far at least , as concerns their mode of generation .
The mode of formation of the ova in the kangaroo , constitutes the first link in this beautiful series .
In the kangaroo , Mr. BAUER has found the corpus luteum , similar to that in quadrupeds ; it is represented in the annexed drawing .
Indeed it is to Mr. BAUER'S talents and microscopical observations that we are indebted for all our information upon this subject .
ova of the Opossum Tribe .
235 In the kangaroo , the ovum when expelled from the corpus luteum , passes along the Fallopian tube , and as there is a thickening and glandular structure surrounding the portion of the tube next to its termination in the uterus , it is there that the yelk , or something analogous to it , is probably secreted ; the ovum with the newly acquired yelk , drops from a pendulous opening into the uterus , in which it receives the albumen .
In one specimen the uterus in a pregnant state , came under my observation ; but as it was sent from New South Wales , in spirit which had not been timely renewed , the contents of the uterus were reduced to a confused mass , in which only a part of the bones could be made out ; enough was however seen , to determine that the ovum of the kangaroo in the uterus has an abundant supply of albumen .
There was no attachment whatever between the albumen and the uterus .
There are two lateral canals that communicate between the uterus and vagina : these answer the purpose of aerating the foetus by means of atmospheric air .
As the penis of the male has only one orifice at the point adapted to the os tincae , the ovum must of necessity be impregnated in the uterus , the structure of the Fallopian tubes , and their mode of terminating in the uterus , rendering it impossible for the semen to pass into them .
The foetus , as soon as it arrives at a certain size ( at which time it in general weighs about 12 grains , ) is expelled from the uterus , and is received into the marsupium , where it becomes attached to the point of one of the nipples , at first by simple contact ; but as the foetus grows , the nipple is found farther in the mouth upon the surface of the tongue .
In the 85th volume of the Philosophical Transactions , Plate XVIII .
XIX , XX .
and XXI .
and in the iooth volume , Plate XIII .
most of these circumstances are represented , but the uses of the different parts , I readily confess , I was at that time unable accurately to comprehend .
The mode of formation of the ova in the Koli and the Wombat of New South Wales , and in the great and small Opossum of North America , constitutes the second link in this chain of gradation .
In none of these different genera are there corpora lutea in the ovaria , but in their place a certain number of yelk-bags of different sizes ; and these are so completely imbedded in the substance of the ovarium , that to common observation they appear to be so many corpora lutea .
There is no thickened glandular structure surrounding the Fallopian tubes near their termination in the uterus .
Instead of one uterus having two Fallopian tubes , there are two uteri and one tube to each ; andin proof that the ovum in each uterus is impregnated separately in its own cavity , the point of the penis in the male is so formed as to throw the semen into both .
The lateral tubes , by which the foetus is aerated in the kangaroo , are formed in these genera in a different manner ; there is only one to each uterus , and this , instead of communicating with the uterus at the fundus , opens into it at the cervix .
The yelk-bags are shown in the annexed drawing .
I have not had an opportunity of examining the ovum of any of these animals in utero , but Mr. BELL , a very intelligent surgeon , transmitted an account to Sir JOSEPH BANKS , of the dissection of a female koli , in which he met with an imperfectly formed embryo in each of the uteri , surrounded by a mass of albumen .
The young of all these genera are expelled from the uterus into the marsupium , and become attached to the prominent points of the nipples .
236 The mode of formation of the ova in the ornithorhynchi , constitutes the intermediate link between that of the American opossum and the bird .
The yelk-bags in the ovaria of the ornithorhynchi are more distinct , and less deeply imbedded than in the opossum : there is no regular uterus , nor Fallopian tubes ; the yelk-bags pass along an oviduct , the lower part of which performs the office of a uterus .
In this situation the ova are impregnated ; the penis of the male , which is bifid , throwing the semen into both oviducts at the same time , through several points like a watering pot , so as to scatter it all over the cavity .
The ova are aerated by the vagina .
The ova in a magnified state are represented in the annexed drawing .
The organs of generation are figured in the 92nd volume , Plate IV .
of the Philosophical Transactions .
To show that the yelk-bags in the ornitllorhynchus resemble those of the pullet , a magnified drawing of them made by Mr. BAUER in that bird , is arnnexed .
To those members not conversant in comparative anatomy , the following summary may be acceptable .
In the human species , and quadrupeds in general , the ova are formed in corpora lutea , and pass into the uterus , to the sides of which they become attached ; when the foetus is completely formed it is expelled by the vagina , and afterwards sucks the mother .
In the kangaroo the ova are formed in corpora lutea , receive their yelks in the Fallopian tube , and their albumen in the uterus .
The ovum thus completed , is impregnated in the uterus , aerated by means of lateral tubes , and when the young is expelled from the uterus , it is received into the marsupium , and attached to the nipple of the mother .
237 In the American opossum , the yelk bags are formed in the ovaria ; pass into the uteri , there receive the albumen , and are then impregnated ; the foetus in each uterus is aerated by one lateral tube .
When expelled from these uteri , the young are received into the marsupium , and become attached to the nipples of the mother .
In the ornithorhynchi the yelk-bags are formed in the ovaria ; received into the oviducts , in which they acquire the albumen , and are impregnated afterwards ; the foetus is aerated by the vagina , and hatched in the oviduct , after which the young provides for itself , the mother not giving suck .
In the pullet , the yelk-bags are formed in one ovarium , impregnated in one oviduct , and hatched out of the body , EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XVI .
Ovarium of the Kangaroo .
Fig. i. The ovarium of a young kangaroo laid open : natural size ; showing the corpus luteum .
Fig. 2 .
The same section magnified four diameters , to .
show the corpus luteum more distinctly .
Fig. 3 .
A section of the corresponding ovarium of the same kangaroo , magnified four diameters ; to show an incipient corpus luteum .
Fig. 4 .
A similar section of the ovarium of an old kangaroo : natural size ; in which there are two corpora lutea .
Fig. 5 .
The same section , magnified four diameters , 238 PLATE XVII .
Ovarium of the American Opossum .
Fig. 1 .
Front view of the ovarium of the large Americani opossum : natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The same view , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 3 Back view , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 4 .
A perpendicular section , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 5 .
The same section , magnified ten diameters .
Fig. 6 .
A young yelk-bag , magnified twenty diameters .
Fig. 7 .
A full grown yelk-bag , magnified twenty diameters .
Fig. 8 .
A full grown yelk-bag opened , to show its contents ; magnified twenty diameters .
PLATE XVIII .
Ovarium of the drnithorhynchus Paradoxus .
Fig. i. Front view of the ovarium of the ornithorhynchus paradoxus : natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The same view , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Back view , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 4 .
A small portion cut off from the upper end of the left side of Fig. 3 .
; magnified ten diameters .
Fig. 5 .
An internal view of the same portion , magnified ten diameters , to-show the yelk-bags .
Fig. 6 .
A full grown yelk-bag , magnified twenty diameters .
Fig. 7 .
A young yelk-bag opened , to show its contents : magnified twenty diameters .
Fig. 8 .
A full grown yelk-bag opened , to show its contents magnified twenty diameters .
239 ova of the Opossum tribe .
Fig. 9 .
The globules of the yelk diluted with water , magnified four hundred diameters .
PLATE XIX .
Ovarium of the Hen .
Fig. i. Front view of the ovarium of a hen : natural size .
Fig. 2 .
A small portion of the same , with some very young yelks : natural size .
Fig. 3 .
The same small portion , magnified five diameters .
Fig. 4 .
Back view of the ovarium of the hen : natural size .
Since this Paper was sent to the press , the author has received , through the kindness of Governor MAC QUARRY and Sir JOHN JEMISON , four specimens of female Ornithorhynchi Paradoxi from New South Wales , and finds in all of them , as well as in every other specimen that has come under his observation , that there are yelk-bags only in the left ovarium , showing that both ovaria are not generally in use at the same time .
This is an approach to the bird , in which there is only one , lying on the left side .
In the chick of the common fowl before it is hatched , there is a small portion of an oviduct on the right side , but his disappears before the chick is completely formed .
i"s .
T-raTai : .
MDCCC , XIRXJate XVIIP..240 237 ' 6 " ' " i : : ?
Is ; -A t:4 .
&lt; XC{ / ' &lt; X. ? ?
iziiIiIiiIiiIIiIIiiiIIi -1 tA , ^c , A ?
x % A ' I Ii ~~ ^~~~~-~~~~~1~T__..~~~~~~~~~.~~~-~~~-~ ~ -I---I .
, I II 1L_L__I-.II 1111 -I I_ ?
I 1 _______il_l..r__l___ __ ; L__ ?
^ _ ? ? ? ?
_ ? ? ? ?
) ... . .
; ... . . ?
l ; I Il iI,..X , ~ %._. .
~.-e~ *k C ?
,2 " ' " , .
*7 r--i .
l iI I ; IHiII II , , &lt; w^ -f )^y)/ ' Ic~-:::--^ ^----== =^==:s==r^=2X &amp; jj2 L_ X _vW IXOO ' &lt; Z -:^

