XIV .
" Observations of the Total Solar Eclipse of August 18 , 1868 .
" By Captain HENRY WELCIHMAN KING .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES .
Received October 30 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The weather was cloudy throughout , but the clouds were thin , so much so as to allow two or three stars to be seen during the time of totality .
The corona exhibited itself quite suddenly on the instant of first totality .
It presented the appearance of a golden-yellow brightness of no very intense brilliancy .
It disappeared as suddenly as it appeared , on the first sign of the retiring sun .
The flames or prominences became visible simultaneously with the corona .
The paper was accompanied by four coloured sketches , the first representing the positions of the sun and moon , with the spots on the former , at an early stage of the eclipse , as observed with a 5-foot telescope by Ross of three inches aperture ; the remaining three representing different stages of the totality .
The second figure shows a red prominence about 25 ?
to the left or east of the lowest point , with a smaller green promitnence , also in contact with the moon , a little distance to the east of it .
The third shows a red prominence about 30 ?
to the right of the lowest point .
The fourth figure shows a broad prominence a little to the left of the highest point .
The figures 2-4 are thus described : Fig. 2 .
" First instant of totality .
This flame or prominence was visible during the whole period of totality by ordinary glasses .
The prismatic colours to the eastward of ' flame I did not see myself , and cannot vouch for them .
" Fig. 3 .
" Middle of totality .
This flame or prominence visible during the whole period of eclipse to ordinary glasses .
" Fig. 4 .
" First reappearance of sun .
I did not observe this flame in early stages of totality , though it may have been visible .
It was observed by the above-mentioned Ross , and was not so brilliatt as the others , though lmore extended .
Entire power of the totality extended over 2 minultes 48 secondls .
" The observations were made on board the steamer ' Rangoon , ' approximate latitude 16ยง 44 ' N. , longitude 83ยง 55 ' E.

