" An Account of some Observations made on the Depth of Rain which falls in the same Localities at different altitudes in the hilly districts of Lancashire , Cheshire and Derbyshire .
" By S. C. Homersham , C.E. Communicated by George Newport , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The author states , that having been present at a meeting of the Royal Society when a paper was read on the Meteorology of the Lake districts of Westmoreland and Cumberland , by J. Miller , Esq. of Kendal , in which it was stated that the quantity of rain falling in mountainous districts appears to increase from the valley upwards , to the altitude of about 2000 feet , and then rapidly to decrease , he wishes to lay before the Royal Society the results of his own observations , which lead him to a different conclusion .
After stating that he had been at some trouble to analyse Mr. Miller 's observations which have been communicated to him by that gentleman , he is of opinion that they do not warrant the conclusion deduced from them , and are also at variance with the recorded observations of Daines Barrington , Dr. Dalton , Professor Daniell and others , as well as those of Capt. Lefroy and Col. Sabine .
The author then shows from observations very carefully made in Lancashire , Cheshire and Derbyshire , from January 1846 to March 1848 , that more rain falls at the bottom than at the tops of hills of a less elevation than 2000 feet in the same locality , and that the quantity diminishes in a ratio almost precisely corresponding to the height .
The details are given in tables of monthly observations , made near Whaley and Congleton in Cheshire , and Chapel-en-lefrith in Derbyshire , and also of other observations made for the Corporation of Liverpool at Rivington and in the valley of Roddlesworth near Preston in Lancashire , which have been communicated to him .
The whole of these observations , carefully analysed and compared , have led the author to a conclusion opposite to that arrived at by Mr. Miller .
The author then proceeds to show that the details of Mr. Miller 's own observations are in accordance with his , and that they fully bear out his views , and not those of that gentleman .
Some apparent discrepancies in the results are pointed out and their cause explained by reference to peculiarities in the localities in which the observations were made , as shown by reference to a map accompanying this paper , and to the details given by Mr. Miller ; so that the observations of this gentleman , when examined with reference to locality , fully confirm those of the author and of the authorities he has quoted , and establish the proposition , that as a general law , the quantity of rain deposited in the valleys and at the bottoms of hills is greater than in more elevated situations in the same locality .

