On the electro-magnetic properties of metalliferous veins in the mines of Cornwall .
By ROBERT WERE Fox of Falmouth .
Communicated by the President .
Read June 10th , 1830 .
IN one of my communications to the Cornwall Geological Society on the high temperature of the interior of the earth , I ventured to express a belief that mineral veins , and the internal heat , are connected with electrical action .
This opinion , founded as it was on the curious arrangement of the veins , &amp;c. in primitive rocks , I have had the satisfaction to find confirmed by experiments made in some of the mines of Cornwall ; and , I doubt not that the existence of electricity in metalliferous veins similarly circumstanced , and capable of conducting it , will prove to be as universal a fact , as the progressive increase of temperature under the earth 's surface is now admitted to be , much as my conclusions on this point were at one time controverted .
In my first experiment I did not succeed in detecting any electricity ; but in my second I had the gratification to observe considerable electrical action .
My apparatus consisted of small plates of sheet copper , which were fixed in contact with ore in the veins by copper nails , or pressed closely against it by wooden props , stretched across the " levels " or galleries .
Between two of these plates at different stations , and a galvanometer* , a communication was made by means of copper wire one-twentieth of an inch in diameter , which was at first coated with sealing-wax ; but afterwards this precaution was dispensed with .
The accompanying sketches are intended to represent the plans adopted , and the results obtained in various mines , and under different circumstances .
In some instances nearly 300 fathoms of copper wire were employed* .
The intensity of the electro-magnetic action differed greatly in different places : in some cases the deviation of the needle was inconsiderable , in others it went completely round the circle .
In general it was greater , caeteris paribus , in proportion to the greater abundance of copper ore in the veins , and in some degree perhaps to the depth of the stations ; -and where there was little or no ore , there was little or no action .
Hence it seems likely that electro-magnetism may become useful to the practical miner in determining with some degree of probability at least , the relative quantity of ore in veins , and the directions in which it most abounds .
When the distance of the plates from each other in a horizontal direction was only a few fathoms , and the copper ore between them was plentiful , and uninterrupted by non-conducting substances , or the workings in the mine , no action occurred , owing no doubt to the good conducting power of the vein ; but where a cross vein of quartz or clay happened to be between the plates under similar circumstances , the action was usually great .
When the communication was established between two plates at different depths on the same vein , or between different veins , whether at the same level or otherwise , the electrical action was in general the most decisive .
In fact , veins which in some instances were almost destitute of ore , and did not affect the needle per se , did so , though perhaps only in a slight degree , when electrical communications were made between them .
It will be seen that the direction of the positive electricity was in some cases from east to west , and in others from west to east ; and when parallel veins were compared , its general tendency was , I think , from north to south , though in several instances it was the reverse .
In veins having an underlie towards the north , the east was commonly positive with respect to the west ; but in veins dipping towards the south , the contrary was observed , with one exception only , and that under rather unusual circumstances .
( See Fig. 27 .
) In comparing the relative states of veins at different depths , the lower stations appeared to be negative to the upper ; but exceptions sometimes occurred when a cross vein of quartz or clay intervened between the plates , and the higher one was on the negative side with respect to the horizontal currents .
( See Fig. 8 .
&amp; 12 .
) In such cases it may be supposed that there is an accumulation of electricity in different states , on the opposite sides of the non-conducting vein .
Such intersections of ore veins , and their being often very rich to a great depth in one direction and not in another , added to their varying underlie at different depths , which is not unfrequently reversed , may tend to produce apparent anomalies in experiments of this nature .
At Huel Jewel mine , I obtained results between a heap of copper ore at the surface , and a plate fixed at different depths against the ore in the vein ; the latter becoming more negative , in proportion to the depth at which it was placed .
Piles of copper ore at the surface did not act on the needle when tried together , independently of veins , nor was it to be anticipated that they would .
It is not improbable that the progressive increase of negative electricity observed in descending into our mines , if hereafter confirmed , may be found to be connected with the progressive increase of temperature .
I have not , however , discovered any distinct connection between them at the same level , but then the differences of temperature are comparatively small .
Nor does the electricity appear to be influenced by the presence of the workmen and candles , or by the explosion of gunpowder , although some veins of copper ore were blasted on different occasions in the immediate vicinity of the copper plates .
And at a very productive copper vein in Great St. George Mine , the ground is so soft that gunpowder is not used ; yet the needle was powerfully acted upon by the electricity it contained .
On this occasion , as well as on some others , I remained with the galvanometer at the surface , letting the wires down through the shafts ; and in this manner I have sometimes found the electricity act with 3F2 401 considerable energy , so as even to cause the needle to revolve with some velocity .
In connection with the electricity of veins , I deemed it desirable to ascertain the relative power of conducting galvanic electricity possessed by many of the metalliferous minerals ; and it appeared to be in about the following order , viz. Conductors .
Copper nickel , Purple copper , Yellow sulphuret of ditto , Vitreous ditto , Sulphuret of iron , Arsenical pyrites , Sulphuret of lead , Arsenical cobalt , Crystallized black oxide of manganese , Tennantite , Fahlerz .
Very imperfect conductors .
Sulphuret of molybdenum , Sulphuret of tin , or rather bell-metal ore .
o7n-conductors .
Sulphuret of silver , Ditto of mercury , Ditto of antimony , Ditto of bismuth , Cupriferous ditto , Realgar , Sulphuret of manganese , Ditto of zinc , Mineral combinations of metals with oxygen , and with acids .
All the conductors of galvanic electricity were so likewise of common electricity ; to which may be added the oxide of tin , and , in a less degree , the sulphurets of bismuth and silver , the phosphate of manganese , and a few of the oxides .
Sulphuret of zinc appeared to be a more perfect non-conductor of common electricity as well as the sulphuret of antimony , than the red oxides of those metals .
Amongst the rocks prevalent in Cornwall , clay-slate or c killas " seemed to possess the property of conducting common electricity in a slight degree , but only in the direction of its cleavage , perhaps owing to the moisture it retained .
I mention these facts in some detail , because it is curious to observe that the conducting power of metallic ores appears to have no reference to any of the electrical or other properties of the metals in a pure state , or to the proportion of them in combination .
Silver and mercury , for example , are combined with , comparatively , very small quantities of sulphur ; -and zinc , which seems to hold an opposite place to silver in the electrical scale , is also found in combination with a much less proportion of sulphur than is contained in copper pyrites , though the latter is one of the best mineral conductors of electricity .
There are many other analogous examples , which prove that no conclusion can be drawn a priori , from the nature or chemical arrangements of minerals , as to their relative electrical properties .
Much time and attention have been bestowed by geologists on the consideration of the origin and comparative ages of veins , and but little , I apprehend , on the purposes for which they are designed .
It appears to me that it will prove a vain attempt to reconcile a multitude of facts observable in our mines with any known natural causes .
I may refer to a few of them:1st .
The very oblique descent of a large proportion of the veins into the earth , in some cases in very hard rock , and in others in ground so soft that it would immediately fall in , however small the excavation , without being completely supported by timber .
Were it possible to conceive fissures to exist under such circumstances , it is not reasonable to suppose that they would not take the direction in which the resistance would be least , that is , either the vertical , or the line of the cleavage of the rocks .
2nd .
Veins are often divided into branches , which unite again at a considerable depth , including between them vast portions of rock perfectly insulated by the ore or vein-stones from the general mass : these , it is evident , could not have existed as fissures for a moment .
3rd .
Veins are continually subject to changes in their horizontal direction and underlie ; their size also often varies exceedingly , one part being many times wider than another , without any reference to their relative position or depth under the surface .
4th .
Although a portion of their vein-stones are usually quite distinct in their characters from the rocks they traverse , they are generally , in part , of the same nature , and vary with the containing rocks , whether granite , elvan , killas , &amp;c. ; and they are commonly too regularly arranged in the veins , and are found enclosing insulated portions of the ore , &amp;c. in their very substance , to admit of the idea of their having been originally mere broken fragments of the enclosing rocks .
At Dolcoath Mine there is an instance of one ore vein intersecting another at different depths , and being itself intersected and even shifted by the same vein at a greater depth .
I have given a sketch of these intersections in Fig. 27 , ( for which I am indebted to Captain PETHERICK of that mine , ) as I am not aware that it has been before noticed .
Many other facts might , if it were necessary , be accumulated , relative to the position and intersections of veins , as well as the nature and arrangement of their contents , which , with those I have stated , are calculated to throw entire discredit on the various hypotheses which have been invented to account for their origin .
But my object is , rather to suggest whether the arrangement of veins , &amp;c. does not argue design , and a probable connection with other phenomenon of our globe .
Metalliferous veins , and those of quartz , &amp;c. appear to be channels for the circulation of the subterraneous water and vapour ; and the innumerable clay veins or " flucan courses " ( as they are termed in Cornwall , ) which intersect them , and are often found contained in them , being generally impervious to water , prevent their draining the surface of the higher grounds as they otherwise would , and also facilitate the working of mines to a much greater depth than would be practicable without them .
With respect to their electrical properties , it may be observed , that ores 404 which conduct electricity have generally , in this county at least , non-conducting substances interposed in the veins between the ore and the surface .
Thus a brown iron ochre with quartz , &amp;c. named " gossan " by the miners , is almost invariably found resting on copper .
Sulphuret of zinc occurs sometimes in the same situation , both with regard to copper and lead ; but tin ore , which is a non-conductor , is without either , and is mostly found nearer the surface than copper .
Tin veins are usually intersected by those of copper when they do not coincide in their horizontal direction or underlie ; thus , in this case , the conducting veins traverse the non-conducting ones .
And when two veins of copper meet at opposite angles in descending , they are , I apprehend , generally found to be unproductive at and near the place of junction ; but when they unite , proceeding downward in the same direction but at different angles , they are commonly observed to be enriched .
These facts appear curious when regarded in connection with the opposite currents of electricity in veins having opposite dips .
There are some districts in this county in which the ore veins have generally a north underlie , and in others the south prevails ; and it often happens that when lodes occur which deviate from the prevalent underlie of the others , in any district , the former are intersected , and sometimes shifted by the latter .
This is strikingly the case in numerous mines in the parishes of St. Agnes and Perran .
The usual horizontal bearing of the copper and tin veins in our principal mining districts , appears to be nearly E. and W. , or rather from E.N.E. to W.S.W. ; but in others they deviate materially from these directions , sometimes to E.S.E. and W.N.W. : indeed , in some places this is the prevailing course of the veins of ore .
When veins containing the sulphuret of silver occur , ( which as I have before stated is a non-conductor of electricity , ) they are generally found nearly at right angles to the copper and tin veins , and seem thus to assume in great measure the character of cross veins of quartz , clay , &amp;c. With respect to the two latter , it has been observed that when they shift the ore veins , there is frequently to be found in them scattered stones of ore , or a small vein of it , or " leader " ( to use a mining term ) , between the dislocated parts of the lode .
This is also the case often with slides ; so that , although 405 the horizontal transfer of the electricity may be much impeded , it does not seem to be wholly intercepted .
The quartz contained in cross veins is usually of a fibrous or radiated texture , and differs materially from that found in the east and west veins .
All our mining districts abound more or less with veins or dykes of a rock generally possessing a porphyritic character , termed by the miners " Elvan courses .
" Their width is extremely various , sometimes as much as fifty fathoms and upwards .
Their direction in general is nearly N.E. or E.N.E. to S.W. or W.S.W. , and their underlie is with few exceptions towards the N.W. , and at various angles from the perpendicular , often exceeding 45 ? .
They are penetrated by ore-veins in almost every direction , from their greater underlie , and usually more considerable deviation from an east and west bearing than the latter .
It has been observed that copper and tin lodes generally become changed in quality whilst in the elvan* ; and indeed this remark applies to any change of rock : thus a vein productive in granite comnnonly becomes barren in killas , and vice versa .
Many of the phenomenon above referred to , bear striking analogies to common galvanic combinations , and the discovery of electricity in veins seems to complete the resemblance .
I have been informed by intelligent persons who have visited some of the mining districts of Mexico , Guatimala , and Chili , that there is a general resemblance between the veins , elvan courses , &amp;c. in some parts of those countries and our own ; and I think it has been noticed by Baron HUMBOLDT , that the stratification of primitive rocks in different , and far distant parts of the world , has a general tendency from the N.E. towards the S.W. Such analogies become highly interesting when regarded in connection with terrestrial electricity , magnetism , and heat ; for if it be granted that the two latter increase in intensity at great depths in the earth , they are evidently so connected with electrical action that the augmentation of it also , in the interior of the globe , may be reasonably inferred .
However this may be , assuming that metalliferous veins exist more or less in primitive rocks generally , ( and experience favours this assumption , whether we refer to the new mines which have been discovered in various parts of North and South America , Siberia , Ireland , &amp;c. or to the mining county of Cornwall , in which whole districts have comparatively of late been found abounding with mineral treasure , where none had been formerly suspected to exist , ) it may I think be presumed , that the electrical currents , which so affect the needle in the galvanoreter , may likewise influence the direction of the magnetic needle on the surface of the earth : at least no explanation of this phenomenon appears to be so plausible , or so well connected with ascertained facts .
Even the cause of the variations of the needle , mysterious as it has hitherto appeared to be , may probably be referred to the relative energies of the opposing electrical currents , which are perhaps subject to occasional modifications ; and the appearance of earthquakes and volcanic action , from time to time , seems to countenance the probability of such changes .
Nor should it be overlooked in reference to this view of the subject , that the oblique bearing which is generally observable in the strata and veins , with respect to the equator , causes them , as it were , to cross at opposite sides of the globe in the same parallels of latitude , so that their tendency , if any , must necessarily be to produce more than one magnetic pole in each hemisphere .
Thus , in this respect also , the hypothesis accords with the interesting fact lately announced ; of Professor HANSTEEN having ascertained the existence of a second magnetic pole within the arctic circle .
The revolution of the earth on its axis from west to east seems moreover to harmonize with the idea of oblique electrical currents ; since rotation in the same direction may be produced by corresponding electro-magnetic arrangements .
Before I conclude , I will briefly mention a few facts relative to the temperature of some of the mines in Cornwall .
At Tingtang copper mine , in the parish of Gwennap , at the bottom of the engine shaft , which is in killas , and 178 fathoms deep , the water about two months ago was at the temperature of 82 ? .
In 1820 , when the same shaft was 105 fathoms deep , the temperature of the water was 68 ?
: thus an increase of 14 ?
has been observed in sinking 73 fathoms , which is equal to 1 ?
in 5 fathoms .
At Huel For tin mine , near lIelston , the water was 69 ?
at the bottom of a shaft 139 fathoms deep , in the year 1819 .
It is now 209 fathoms deep , and ELECTRd-MAGNETIC PROPERTIES the temperature is 79 ?
, which gives a mean increase of 1 ?
in sinking 7 fathoms .
This part of the mine is in killas .
The highest temperature of the water at the bottom of Poldice copper and tin mnine in the parish of Gwennap , in 1820 , which was then 144 fathoms under the surface , was 80 ? .
It is now 176 fathoms deep , and the temperature is 99 ?
; and in a cross level 20 fathoms further north , the water is 1000* .
The two last-mentioned temperatures are the highest hitherto observed in any of the mines of this county ; and the increase is equal to 190 in one case , and 20 ?
in another , in sinking 32 fathoms , or 1 ?
for 1 fathom .
Three persons only were employed at a time near each of these stations , and the water pumped up from this part of the mine was estimated at 1,800,000 gallons in twenty-four hours ; and I found on examination that it contained a considerable quantity of common salt in solution .
Sections of Cross Veins marked thus Section dotted , Granite .
Short line section , Clay Slate .
The arrows mark the direction of the positive electricity through the wire , which is represented by the black lines , and the number of cross marks on the arrows are increased according to the increase of electrical intensity .
@ Marks the stations of the Galvanometer .
a The copper plate at the bottom of a level .
0 Ditto at the back of a level .
They are shaded in proportion to the richness of the veins , which are all of copper ore , except Fig. 11 &amp; 18 , and those otherwise marked in Fig. 19 &amp; 21 .
B.S. Bottom of the Shaft .
f"D .
Depth from Surface in fathoms .
00 ?
Temperature at the Stations of the plates .
/ O 500 2o -40 s0 60 r1-iiIT , ,,._.--'1 Wires corresponding with the directions of the ore Veins or Lodes , from Fig. 1 .
to 18 .
HUEL JEWEL .
South Lode .
North Underlie 23 ? .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
WEST .
Z2_AST .
~~~~~~~~~ : ... . .
' " ' ' " ' " ' ' '~ ' ' ~~"'"~~'~EAST On Roche 's Lode .
North Underlie 12 ? .
Fig. 3 .
TINGTANG MINE .
On junction of Old and Middle Lodes .
North Underlie 24 ? .
Fig. 4 .
Z2 !
r`l POLDICE .
Old Ore Lode .
North Underlie 23 ? .
Fig. 5 .
HUEL UNITY On William 's Lode .
North Underlie 27 ? .
Fig. 6 .
^^^^^^^0S ' Surface 40 HUEL DAMSEL .
On South Lode .
North Underlie 20 ? .
Fig. 8 .
positive .
negative .
a with nam strong action .
em ditto On Garby 's Lode .
North Underlie 27 ? .
Fig. 7 .
DOLCOATH MINE .
On Richard 's Lode , perpendicular .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
WEST .
7 EAST .
410 On Tin Lode .
North Underlie 33 ? .
Fig. 11 , 2767 ^^^^ .
gp W ' I\ '^te^ ' sY^s X^V-^ XK'.VI 'll i A ?
2 ?
2 ~~ ~~I -0 ' , .
, .
: : AS\~ TRESAVEAN MINE .
On Main Lode .
South Underlie 5 ?
to 10 ? .
Fig. 12 .
positive , negative. .
, .
, , a with eaman ' , ::S~ti.^l % as strong action .
^ , --^ ~ns ditto , \~m esme very slight .
no ditto North Lode .
South Underlie 30 .
Fig. 13 .
wO6/ i 6flM , ~~ ' GREAT ST .
GEORGE .
South Underlie 5 ? .
Fig. 14 .
DOLCOATH .
On Caunter Lode .
South Underlie 12 ? .
Fig. 15 .
positive , negative .
a with me -a ce nm WEST .
EAST .
411 On Caunter Lode .
South Underlie 12 ? .
Fig. 16 .
WEST .
EAST .
On Harriet 's Lode .
South Underlie 9 ? .
Fig. 17 .
V ( See intersections of these Lodes , Fig. 27 .
) HIEL ROSE LEAD MINE .
Lode 3 feet wide .
South Underlie 25 ?
to 30 ? .
Fig. 18 .
positive , negative .
a with r strong action am or s ditto an stronger rm or s still stronger r -n ditto crerxra ( 2n ) Transverse sections of parallel Lodes connected by the Wires , from Fig. 19 .
to Fig. 26 .
POLDICE MINE .
HUEL LEISURE .
Tin Lode .
Old Ore Lode ( copper ) .
Copper Lodes .
Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
SOUTH .
* NA .
IHUEL PROSPER .
TRESAVEAN MINE .
Copper Lode .
Lead Lode .
Fig. 22 .
IH[UEL UNITY .
Copper Lodes .
Fig. 23 .
Fig. 21 .
positiveD .
negative .
rpg neataposi .
ative .
' with r very slirabt action c with a slight action -D c mostronergl directions in perspective .
The parts under the angles show their underlie .
n4 , &lt; ?
t sroer Fig. 25 .
HUEL JEWEL .
Fig. 26 .
N. Lode 4 to 8 feet wide .
S. Lode 2 to 4 feet wide .
Positive , negative .
r with srx great action positive , negative .
Ca with e slight 130 fathoms deep Iaf greater of still more action 150 fathoms deep mn Huel Jewel and Huel Damsel Lodes when connected ; distance , 130 fathoms ; former north of latter .
positive , negative .
a with sra very slight action DOLCOATH MINE .
Supposed bird's-eye view of the alternate intersections of the Caunter and Harriet 's Lodes , both copper .
Fig. 27 .
4 , ?
4zz2fat-.~I ' 105 Direction of electricity ( positive ) at the adit from the Caunter Lode towards the E. or rather N.E. end of Harriet 's , shown by the arrows .
On Harriet 's Lode , pos .
elect .
from z to x= an arc of 400 On Caunter Lode .
c to a -190 c tox = ---110 c to(a &amp; x)= ---210 ( cx ) to a= --10 414 S. Lode 2feet wide .
6 A24-S'o H0 N. Lode 12 foot wide .
IS06 E0 ?
1

