On the Parallax of a Lyree .
By John Pond , Esq. Astronomer Royal , .
F.R.S. Read November 14 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 53 .
] The author , not satisfied with Ilis former attempts to discover the parallax of a Lyrce with the mural circle , has resumed his examinations of this star with the same instrument , being prevented from employing the method of a fixed telescope , for want of an opposite star sufficiently bright to be observed throughout the year .
The Dublin observations having indicated that the parallax of y Draconis is inscnsible , and that of a Lyrae about 2 " , he investigates first the difference of parallax between these stars ; secondly , the absolute parallax of a Lyrxe .
The change in the angular distance of the two stars at opposite seasons , he finds not to exceed one tenth of a second ; which perfect coincidence he attributes in great measure to the mildness of the winter of 1821-1822 , enabling him to equalise the temleratures of the outer and inner thermometer throughout the whole course of observation .
It is shown that temperature cannot have vitiated these results by its effect on the instrument , since they are the same whether we employ the readings of two , or of six microscopes .
The absolute parallax of a Lyre is investigated by the method of reflection , which the author had successfully introduced into other astronomical researches .
Although the period of observation embraces only half the period of the double parallax , yet that apparent disadvantage is more than compensated , in the author 's opinion , by an uniformity of the temperature obtained , such as can never be expected between the extreme seasons .
Here , again , from the season chosen , from the pains taken to equalise the temperature , and from the concordance of the results obtained with two and six microscopes , the author believes that no errors of sensible amount have been introduced by change of temperature .
These observations indicate that the absolute parallax of a Lyrse does not exceed a small fraction of a second .
The argument that has been advanced by Dr. Brinkley in favour of parallax , and on which the greatest reliance has been placed , is next adverted to ; namely , that founded on the disengagement of the solar nutation after allowing for parallax , from the observations made with the Dublin instrument .
This reasoning is considered strictly logical , as proving the disengagement of two equations , having each a regular period ; but by no means so , as establishing that the larger equation results from parallax ; since those stars in which the Dublin instrument discovers parallax , are at some distance from the zenith ; and the more so as their parallax appears to be greater ; and moreover , since those in which the greatest parallax is found , are stars whDse maximum and mininum of parallax fall in the extreme seasons ; the author thinks it probable that the discordances observed are owing to changes of temperature , which either alter the form of the instrument , or modify the refractions of the ray introduced within the observatory ; since , on this supposition , we shall account for the want of parallax in zenith stars , and in those whose greatest and least parallax would happen at the mean seasons , and also for the regularity of the period that the discordances have been found to observe .

