A Paper was read , entitled , " Proposed Plan for supplying filtered Water to the Metropolis and its Suburbs .
" By Lemuel Wellman Wright , Esq. , Civil Engineer .
Communicated by T. J. Pettigrew , Esq. F.R.S. The author , after giving extracts from the Report of the Com ?
missioners appointed by His late Majesty to inquire into the supply of water to the metropolis , in support of the practicability of affording a supply of filtered water from the Thames , adequate to the demand , and within reasonable limits in point of expense , proposes his plan of forming a filter under the bed of the river for each Company .
He states that the deposit of mud on each side of the Thames does not reach below the low-water mark , and that the bed of the river throughout is generally a clean and strong , though porous gravel .
The mud , therefore , will puddle in , and close the pores of the bed of gravel on which it lies , above low-water mark , so that the filtration into the neighbouring wells , the waters of which are remarkably pure , must take place below low-water mark .
He therefore proposes to construct a filtering chamber below the bed of the river , from which chamber a main pipe or tunnel must be made for conducting the filtered water into a well on the river side , whence it is to be drawn up by steam power , and distributed to the houses to be supplied , by the mains and branches at present existing .
The filtering chamber and apparatus are to be prepared by erecting a coffer-dam in the river , of sufficient size to enclose the whole of the area required for that purpose .
This coffer-dam will require piles of forty-rive feet in length .
The bed of the river , thus laid dry , is to be dug out , and a bed of brick-work , set in cement , laid down : a floor must then be constructed in the form of an inverted segment of an arch .
On the top of the walls of this floor , plates are to be laid , and in the enclosed area , granite blocks placed - } upon these again , the girders are to be laid , and over these the joists , which are to support a first layer of large flints .
Upon these , successive layers of smaller flints are to be laid , each decreasing in size as they approach the bed of the river .
Upon the uppermost of these , a stratum of clean shingle is to be deposited ; then a bed of fine and very clean gravel ; and lastly a bed of filtering sand , until it arrives within a foot of the bed of the river , which last space must then be filled up with clean gravel ; thereby forming a filtering bed of eight feet in depth , the top of which will still be four feet below low-water mark .
So that , allowing seven feet for the timbers and brick-work below , and eighteen feet for the rise and fall of the tide , the total depth at high-water will be thirty-seven feet .
The paper is accompanied by a lithographic drawing , which ex ?
hibits the several parts of* the scheme .

