January 16 , 1845 .
SIR JAMES CLARK ROSS , V.P. , in the Chair .
" On the Liquefaction and Solidification of Bodies generally existing as Gases .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. , D.CL .
, &amp;c. The method employed by the author for examining the capability of gases to assume the liquid or solid form , consisted in combining the condensing powers of mechanical compression with that of very considerable depressions of temperature .
The first object was obtained by the successive action of two air-pumps ; the first having a piston of one inch in diamreter , by which the gas to be condensed was forced into the cylinder of the second pump , the diameter of whose piston was only half an inch .
The tubes into which the air , thus further condensed , was made to pass , were of green bottle glass , from one-sixth to one-quarter of an inch in external diameter , and had a curvature at one portion of their length adapted to immersion in a cooling mixture : they were provided with suitable stop-cocks , screws , connecting pieces , and terminal caps , all very carefully made , and rendered sufficiently air-tight to retain their gaseous contents under the circumstances of the experiments , and when they were sustaining a pressure of fifty atmospheres , as ascertained by mercurial gauges connected with the apparatus .
Cold was applied to the curved portions of the tube by their immersion in a bath of Thilorier 's mixture of solid carbonic acid and ether .
The degree of cold thus produced , when the mixture was surrounded by the air , estimated by an alcohol thermometer , was a temperature of 106 ?
Fahr. But on placing the mixture under an air-pump , and removing the atmospheric pressure , leaving only that of the vapour of carbonic acid , which amounted only to 1-24th of the former , ( that is to the pressure of a column of 1-2 inch of mercury , ) the thermometer indicated a temperature of 166 ?
below zero of Fahrenheit 's scale .
In this state , the ether was very fluid ; and the bath could be kept in good order for a quarter of an hour at a time .
The author found that there were many gases which , on being subjected to cold of this extreme intensity , condensed into liquids , even without a greater condensation than that arising from the ordinary atmospheric pressure , and that they could then be preserved , sealed up in glass tubes , in this liquid state .
Such was the case with chlorine , cyanogen , ammonia , sulphuretted hydrogen , arseniuretted hydrogen , hydroiodic acid , hydrobromic acid , carbonic acid , and euchlorine .
With respect to some other gases , such as nitric oxide , fluosilicon , and olefiant gas , it was difficult to retain them for any length of time in the tubes , in consequence of the chemical action they exerted on the cements used in the joinings of caps and other parts of the apparatus .
Hydroiodic and hydrobromic acids could be obtained either in the solid or liquid state .
Muriatic acid gas did not freeze at the lowest temperature to which it could be subjected .
Sulphurous acid froze into transparent and colourless crystals , of greater specific gravity than the liquid out of which they were formed .
Sulphuretted hydrogen solidified in masses of confused crystals of a white colour , at a temperature of -122 ?
Fahr. Euchlorine was easily converted from the gaseous state into a solid crystalline body , which , by a slight increase of temperature , melted into an orangerec fluid .
Nitrous oxide was obtained solid at the temperature of the carbonic acid bath in vacuo , and then appeared as a beautifully clear and colourless crystalline body .
The author conceives that in this state it might , in certain cases , be substituted with advantage for carbonic acid in frigorific processes , for arriving at degrees of cold far below those hitherto attained by the employment of the latter substance .
Ammonia was obtained in the state of solid white crystals , and retained this form at a temperature of --103 ? .
The following liquids could not be made to freeze at -166 ?
; namely , chlorine , ether , alcohol , sulphuret of carbon , caoutchoucine , camphine , and rectified oil of turpentine .
The following gases showed no signs of liquefaction when cooled by the carbonic acid bath , even when subjected to great pressure ; namnely , -Hydrogen , Oxygen , at a pressure of ... .
27 atmospheres .
Nitrogen and nitric oxide at a pressure of 50 atmospheres .
Carbonic oxide at a pressure of ... ... . .
40 atmospheres .
Coal-gas at a pressure of ... ... ... ... . .
32 atmospheres .

