An Analysis of a mineral Substance from North America , containing a Metal hitherto unknown .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 26 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 49.1 This substance , which was lately found among the minerals in the British Museum , appears by an entry in Sir Hans Sloane 's Catalogue , to have been sent to him with various specimens of iron ores , by Mr. Winthrop of Massachusetts , whence it is conjectured that it is the produce of that province .
Its resemblance to the Siberian chromate of iron first attracted Mr. Hatchett 's notice .
It is of a dark brownish gray ; its longitudinal fracture is imperfectly lamellated , and the cross fracture shows a fine grain .
Its lustre is vitreous ; it is moderately hard , and very brittle .
The analysis was conducted with all the chemical agents usually applied upon those occasions ; and the whole process is minutely described in the paper .
From these experiments we learn that this ore consists of about one quarter of iron , and three quarters of a substance hitherto unknown , but now proved to be of a metallic nature , both by the coloured precipitate which it forms with prussiate of potash and with tincture of galls , and by the colour which it communicates to phosphate of ammonia , or rather to concrete phosphoric acid when melted with it .
From the experiments made with the blowpipe , it seems to be one of those metallic substances which retain oxygen with great obstinacy , and are therefore of difficult solution .
That it is an acidifiable metal appears from the circumstance of the oxide turning litmus paper red , expelling carbonic acid , and forming combinations with the fixed alkalies ; but in many points which are enumerated , it is manifestly very different from the acidifiable metals hitherto known , such as arsenic , tungsten , molybdena , and chromium , and it appears to differ still more from the lately discovered metals known by the names of uranium , titanium , and tellurium .
The iron contained in this ore is in the same state as -it is found in Wolfram , namely , brown oxide ; and this oxide is mineralized by the new metallic acid in the same manner as the oxides of iron and manganese are mineralized by the tungstic acid , or rather oxide .
Several facts which have appeared in the course of this investigation seem to prove that this new metal differs from tungsten and the otler acidifiable metals by a more limited extent of oxidation ; for , unlike these , it seems to be incapable of retaining-oxygen sufficient to enable the total quantity to combine with fixed alkalies .
All that can be said at present as to the uses of this metal is , that an olive-green prussiate , and an orange-coloured gallate they yield , are both very fine colours , which , as they do not appear to fade when exposed to light and air , may probably be employed with advantage as pigments .
The author lastly hazards a conjecture , that several of the newly discovered metals and other substances , which are now considered as simple , primitive , and distinct bodies , will , upon further examination , turn out to be compounds .
Meanwhile as the new metal here described appears hitherto distinct from all the others , it cannot but be expedient to distinguish it by a proper appellation ; and the least objectionable that has hitherto occurred , is that of Columbium .

