]\gt ; .
W. D. Niven .
On certain tegrals .
[ May 1 , along the 40th parallel in North America between the Atlantic Ocean and Salt Lake City .
Ma .
observations have been made , with more or less assiduity , at different in the eastern States for many years past ; but of the immense bact of country lying between the Mississippi and the Paciiic Ocean } is only a cletermination of one of the three elements on Sir Edward Sabine 's maps , , a determination of Salt City .
A serics of observations was made some years since by United States ' officers the Mexican frontier , and a similar.serics was carried out the English and American officers employed on the North American Boundary sion .
The prescnt sct of obscrvations was made , therefore , district lics midway betwccn the line of obsel.lrCftdy run the northern and southern boundaries of the United States ' erritory .
The instruments employed formed part of the magnetic equipment inos ' to Owcns ] , fanchcster , and were kindly placed at the disposal of uthor by Council of .
At the commencement and end of the survcy a mpletc s tions was made at Kcw , which was adopted as a bnsc slation ; ard a similar set was at Washino ton in the etic orvatory belono.inose ' to Mr. Charles A. Sch ott , of the United Sates ' llrvey Department , a of indcpclldent c ] ] on the indications of the instruments .
The thor learned from Mr. Schott that the Coast Survey Dcpartment is gradnally accumulating datafor a discussion of the gnctic history of the Amcricnn continent .
It already published a of declination for , from which it is evident that much has been done in the tion of this particular element since the date of Sir mcmoirs , more cspccially along the cific slopc , and in to west and south-west of the Grlat Salt Lakc .
yet , owever , 110 observations have been relating to any of the districts wcst of the Missisfiippi visited by author . .
' On Definitc in Analysis , ) ) ) sion in of the of of ipse.\ldquo ; By .
D. , 1f.A .
, J. L. .
S. Rec , 1879 .
1 .
The ) of is to in method of cala cl{ of connected vs ith the expansion of functions in spherical onic serics .
Mr. W. D. Niven .
On certain Definite Integral The basis of the method is ssed by the evaluation of taken over the surface of a sphere of adius R , whose centre is the of co-ordinates .
This is easily shown to bc Hence it follows , if be any function symbolically the form lere the differential coefficients of belong to the , tind is any point lvithi]l the spherc , . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
If we next consider a circle in the planc of , , ?
/ , hose celltrc is origin , and whose radius is find , in like mttllncl taken round the pel'imetcl\ldquo ; . . . . . . .
The theorcms ( 1 ) { arc in vnricty of hich quote } resuIts : \mdash ; Let be tl , zonal harmonic of ) in axis of , and let and bc ( 1 ) , not less th .
In ) th hcrc is of odd iucluded .
Mr. W. D. Niven .
On certain Definite Integrals .
[ May 1 , In the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society vol. xxvii , pp. 63\mdash ; 71 , Professor J. C. Adams has found the value of the integral S. Mr. Ferrers had also independently succeeded in evaluation , and had published the result in his " " Treatise on Spherical Harmonics In the paper of which this is an abstract , the same integral is dis , and an attempt is made to extend the result to the cases of three tesseral harmonics , and of four zonals with coincident poles , but with only partial success .
2 .
If we seek to ] the same methods to ellipsoids and elIipses , we find that taken over the surface of the ) soid of semi-axes is the perpendicular from the centre upon , is equal to and that JVdx d As a pal.ticular case , Ict us consider as the potential duc to unit matter at the outsidc of tho .
Then , since and therefore PQ ' \amp ; c. , we may , zero before tion , tbo two results:\mdash ; the of all harmonics ; 1879 .
] .
W. D. Niven .
On certain fi nite where is the mass of the ellipsoid .
Equation ( 4 ) gives the harmonic nsion of a solid ellipsoid of unit density ; and it will be observed that , in that form , it gives a very simple proof of Maclaurin 's theorem , since the operator is unaffected by the addition of the terms .
By means of ( 4 ) it is easy to find what homson and Tait have called the exhaustion of potential energy , due to the mutual action of two solid ellipsoids , and then by spherical harmonic analysis , to determine approximately the nature of the forces acting between them .
Pursuing the same method , we next find that the potential at outside point due to an ellipse of density 1 , its axcs , in the axes of -ordinates , is . . . . . . .
( 5 ) .
irom ( 5 ) it is easy to pass to the potcntial of a magnetic polc at , due to unit currcnt ting in the boundary of the ellipse , and thence to the expansion in harmonics for the mutual potential energy of the currents in two elliptic cuibs i positions .
Results similar to ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) can also be easily found for solid parallelopipeds and for rectangular circuits .
The series here found cease to be within including the igin .
The expansion of the potential in those ions must be found by an investigation .
It may be remarked that the harmonics in the form of differential coefficients , given iu ( S ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 5 ) , may easily be expressed in terms of the corresponding surface , according to the following theorem : \mdash ; Let be the radius vector from the to any , and let / be any homogeneous operator of the degree upon the reciprocal of , then , Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the Origin [ May 1 , where is the biaxal harmonic of the degree , whose pole is in OP , itnd which may therefore be expressed in the usual way , according to 's addition formula .
The differentiations are then easily performed .
III .
the of the Parallel Roads of Lochaber , and their bearing on other Phenomena of thu Glacial Period By STWICH , , F.G.S. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Geology the University of Oxford .
eceived March 27 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) Of the various that ve been forward since the time of Macculloch and Dick-Lauder to account for the of the Parallel Roads of Glen Boy , the one so ably propounded by JamiesoIl , in 186 has been most generally received and adopted .
It is a modification of the views originally expressed by assiz , to the effect that the barriers of lakes , \mdash ; to the shore action of which both the above-named ists attributed the " " oads , \ldquo ; but were at a loss to account both for the formation and removal of barriers , \mdash ; bad formed during the glacial period by gacicrs issuing from Glen Treig and Glen Arkaig , supplemented by others from Ben Nevis .
rrhe subsequent determination , by the Scotch eologists , of an intermediate milder pel.iod succeeded by a second cold period , led .
Jamieson , with whom the preglacial and glacial deposits of Scotland had been a subject of especial investigation , to that the extension of these two glaciors took during the second cold period , which he thinks was of little less intensity than the first , and that , whilc the lacier from Glen Arkaig blocked up Gluoy , the vlacler from Glen Treig formed a bal.rier to Glen Roy .
He observes , " " rant , , these two ice-streams , one in the Great Caledonian Valley and the other at Glen , and the problem of the Parallel Roads can be solved , provided we allow that glacicrs have the power to dam such deep bodies of water must have occupied Glen Gluoy and Glen [ toy.\ldquo ; Mr. Jamieson , in support of this view , adduces the extensive tion apparent at entrance both of len Arkaig and of Glen Treig , and shows that near the cntrance of Glcn Gluoy there are ice striae , pointing W. ) N. , or in the dircction that a glacier comino from Glen Arkaig would take , that , in the Spean Valley , Glen Treig , ice striae are transvcrso to the valley , or in the direction of the axlS of Loch Treig , while on either side they point respectively np and down Glen Spean .
He infers , consequently , that the central

