304 List of Candidates .
[ Mar. 5 , i i March 5 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
t f The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered j for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Anderson , William , M.Inst .
C.E. Bateson , William , M.A. Beddard , Frank Evers , M.A. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Blake , Rev. John Frederick , F.G.S. Boulenger , George Albert .
Bower , Professor Frederick Or-pen , D.Sc .
Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Cheyne , Professor William Watson , F.R.C.S. Conroy , Sir John , Bart. , M.A. Crisp , Frank , LL. B. Cunningham , Professor Daniel John , M.D. Davis , James William , F.G.S. Dawson , George Mercer , D.Sc .
Dibdin , William J. , F.C.S. Dickinson , William Howship , M.D. Dreschfeld , Professor Julius , M.D. Eaton , Rev. Alfred Edwin , M.A. Edgeworth , Professor Francis Ysidro , M.A. Elliott , Edwin Bailey , M.A. Ellis , William , F.R.A.S. Foster , Professor Clement Le Neve , D.Sc .
Frankland , Professor Percy Faraday , B.Sc. Gadow , Hans , M.A. Gilchrist , Percy C. Gotch , Francis , M.R.C.S. Halliburton , William Dobinson , M.D. Harcourt , Professor Leveson Francis Vernon , M.Inst .
C.E. Heath , Christopher , F.R.C.S. Heaviside , Oliver .
Herdman , Professor William Abbott , D.Sc .
Hickson , Sydney John , D.Sc .
Ho worth , Henry Hoyle .
Joly , John , M.A. Jones , Professor John Viriamu , f M.A. Kidston , Robert , F.G.S. King , George .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Larmor , Joseph , D.Sc .
Lydekker , Richard , B.A. Macalister , Donald , M.D. McConnell , James Frederick Parry , Surgeon - Major , ,.v F.R.C.P. MacMunn , Charles , M.D. Marr , John Edward , M.A. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Mond , Ludwig , F.C.S. Newton , Edwin Tully , F.G.S. jj^ Nicholson , Professor Hem } | Alleyn , M.D. Ord , William Miller , M.D. 1891 .
] Peddler , Professor F.C.S. Read , Tbom\amp ; s Msllflirdj F.O.S. Roberts , Ralph A. , M.A. Rutley , Frank , F.G.S. Seebohm , Henry , F.L.S. Shaw , William Napier , M.A. Sherrington , Charles Scott , M.B. Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Stewart , John Heron Maxwell Shaw , Major-General R.E. Thompson , Professor Silvanns Phillips , D.Sc .
Thomson , Professor John Millar , F.C.S. Thornycroft , John Isaac , M. Inst. C.E. Tizard , Thomas Henry , Staff-Commander R.N. Tuke , Daniel Hack , M.D. Veley , Victor Hubert , M.A. Waller , Augustus D. , M.D. Woodward , Horace Bolingbroke , F.G.S. Young , Professor Sydney , D.Sc .
Some Suggestions regarding Solutions .
Alexander , The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Some Suggestions regarding Solutions .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , London .
Received February 16 , 1891 .
The brilliant presidential address of Professor Orme Masson at the Chemical Section of the Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science marks a distinct advance in our ideas of solution .
The analogy between the behaviour of a liquid and its vapour in presence of each other and of a pair of solvents capable of mutual solution is so striking as to carry conviction .
The resemblance of the liquid-vapour curve , with its apex at the critical point , to the solubility ourve , with its apex at the critical solution point , appears to me to prove beyond cavil that the two phenomena are essentially of the same nature .
The address will take rank along with vant Hoffs classical paper on " Osmotic Pressure .
' ' There are two other phenomena , which , it appears to me , are made clear by the ideas of Professor Masson .
The first of these has reference to supersaturated solutions , The curves ( published in 'Nature , ' vol. 43 , p. 348 , Feb. 12 , 1891 ) showing the analogy between liquid-gas and solution curves , are isobaric curves , or , more correctly , they represent the terminations of isobaric curves in the region of mixtures , where , on the one hand , a liquid exists in presence of its vapour , and , on the other , one solvent in presence of Mother ( for both solvents play the part of dissolved substances as Wel1 as of solvents ) .
M. Alexeeff 's data are not sufficient to permit construction of a curve representing a similar region mapped 'Ut by termination of isothermal lines .
But it is obvious that it 306 Prof. W. Ramsay .
[ Mar. 5t would be possible to determine osmotic pressures of various mixtures by the freezing-point method , and so to construct isothermal curves I for such mixtures of solvents .
And there can be no reasonable doubt that , as the isobaric curves of liquid-gas and of solvent-solvent \ display so close an analogy , the isothermal curves would also closely resemble each other .
Granting then that this is the case , we may construct an imaginary I isothermal curve on the model of the curve for alcohol published in 1 the ' Phil. Trans. ' by Dr. Sydney Young and myself .
Row , in one series of papers on the liquid-gas relations , we showed that with constant volume pressure is a linear function of temperature ; and we were thus able to calculate approximately the pressures and volumes for any isothermal representing the continuous transition from the gaseous to the liquid state ( see 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1887 , vol. 23 , p. 435 ) .
It would be interesting to ascertain whether , if concentration be kept constant , osmotic pressure would also show itself to be a linear function of temperature .
But , this apart , it appears in the highest degree probable that there should also exist , in theory , at least , a continuous transition from solvent to solvent , the representation of which would be a continuous curve .
In such a case , on increasing the concentration of the solution by eliminating one solvent , the other solvent should not separate visibly , but the two should remain mixed , until one solvent has been entirely removed .
The accompanying diagram will make this clear .
The sinuous curve ABODE may represent either continuous change from liquid along an isothermal on decrease of volume , or it 1891 .
] Some Suggestions regarding Solutions .
307 represent a similar continuous change from saturated solution to dissolved substance on increase of concentration .
Mr. Aitken 's experiments on the cooling of air containing water-vapour have shown us that it is possible to realise a portion of the curve AB ; the phenomenon of " boiling with bumping " constitutes a practical realisation of a portion of the curve DE ; and we may profitably inquire what conditions determine such unstable states with solvent and solvent .
Regarding the portion of the curve AB , I think that no reasonable doubt can be entertained .
It precisely corresponds to the condition of supersaturation .
In the liquid-gas curve , the volume is decreased at constant temperature without separation of liquid ; .
in the solvent-solvent curve the concentration is increased without separation of the solvents .
Dr. NIcol has shown that it is possible to dissolve dry sodium sulphate in a saturated solution of sodium sulphate to a very considerable extent without inducing crystallisation ; and here we have a realisation of the unstable portion of the curve AB .
In the gas-liquid curve pressure falls with formation of a shower of drops ; in the solvent-solvent curve crystallisation ensues , and the solvents separate .
The phenomena are , however , not completely analogous ; the complete analogy would be if the temperature were so low that the substance in the liquid-gas couple were to separate in the solid , not in the liquid , state .
This , so far as I am aware , has not been experimentally realised , but one sees no reason why it should not he possible .
I have some hesitation in offering speculations as to the state of matter at the portion of the continuous curve DE .
It may be that it corresponds to a syrupy or viscous state .
Cane-sugar at a moderate temperature dissolves water ; indeed it is possible to obtain a solution of 1 per cent , of water in molten cane-sugar .
And such a solution , if quickly cooled , remains a syrup .
But it can be induced t " crystallise by the presence of crystals .
Thus , in such a mixture of sugar and water , a few grains of crystalline sugar cause the whole mass to crystallise , and water saturated with sugar and sugar separate into two layers .
Here , again , a complete analogy fails us , for it is a solid which separates .
As we know nothing of the osmotic pi ensure of a syrup , the analogy is a defective one ; but it is probable that a dilute solution of sugar would pass continuously into a syrup \gt ; Pure sugar by evaporation of the solvent , and analogy would lead to the supposition that the syrup coincides with the unstable state of liquid .
I would , therefore , offer the analogy between the syrupy and the supercooled states as a tentative one ; it lacks foundation in with cases .
One point remains to be mentioned .
I have for the past nine Months , in conjunction with Mr. Edgar Perman , been determining 308 Mr. F. E. Beddard .
a new Form of | the adiabatic relations for liquid and gaseous ether : the rise of pressure and temperature when volume is decreased without escape of heat .
It is obvious that similar relations are determinable f0r 1 solutions , and probably with much greater facility .
M. Alexeeff has !
made some measurements which might be utilised for this purpose .
f but they are far too few in number , and , moreover , the necessary data as regards osmotic pressure are wholly wanting .
It would be possible by a series of differential experiments to ascertain the 1 evolution of heat on increasing concentration , and so to arrive at a I knowledge of the specific heats of the solution at constant osmotic pressure , corresponding to the idea of specific heat at constant pressure ; and also of specific heats at constant concentration , corresponding to specific heats at constant volume .
I do not know whether such researches would yield as accurate results as those we are at present carrying out , but they are at least well worthy of attention .
II .
" Preliminary Notice of a New Form of Excretory Organs in an Oligocheetous Annelid .
" By Frank E. Beddard , M.A. , Prosector of the Zoological Society .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1891 .
So far as our knowledge of the Oligochseta goes at present , the excretory system appears to consist either of one or more pairs of separate nephridia in each segment , or of a diffuse , irregularly arranged system of tubules with numerous external pores upon each segment , and often with numerous coelomic funnels in each segment ; there may or may not be a connexion between the tubes of successive segments .
All the aquatic Oligocheeta have nephridia of the first kind ; a large number of the terrestrial Oligocheeta have nephridia of the second kind ; there is occasionally in the latter forms a specialisation of part of the diffuse nephridial system into a pair of large nephridia ; these species connect the two extremes .
But in all these Worms the nephridia are contained in the coelom , though some of the connecting branches may be retroperitoneal ; the ducts which lead to the exterior may branch in the thickness of the body wall , but there does not seem to be any extensive ramification and anastomosis of the tubes in the muscular layers of the body wall.* I have recently found a remarkably different arrangement of the nephridia in an Annelid belonging to a new genus of Eudrilid\#169 ; * This family is chiefly noteworthy on account of the remarkable modi* ' Quart .
Journ. Mier .
Sci. , ' vol. 28 , PI .
fig. 1 , n , and fig. 2 .

