Liberation of Ions and Oxygen Tension of Tissues .
215 great a drain on the funds allotted to medical work in these colonies , etc. , where this condition is prevalent .
This preparation of antimony was tried successfully in a few cases of syphilis* by intramuscular injection , but the pain was so severe that the method was not continued .
I venture to suggest that , as intravenous injection of the metal has proved feasible , a further trial may be warranted in this other spirochsetal disease so closely allied to yaws .
The Liberation of Ions and the Oxygen Tension of Tissues during Activity .
( Preliminary Communication .
) By H. E. Roaf , M.D. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received January 10 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1913 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory , St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
) The hypothesis , that when cells become active ions are liberated , is frequently quoted in physiological writings , but measurements of the ionic changes are not given .
The present research is an attempt to measure the ionic changes during tissue activity .
A knowledge of these changes is desirable in order to compare the action of ions on colloids outside the cells with the changes that occur inside the cells. .
On turning to the physiological literature one finds that little or nothing is given in the way of measurement of the ionic concentrations with which biology has to deal .
Thus , neither the recent work on electrobiology by Bernstein , f nor that on the hydrogen ion in biological processes by Sorensen^ contains any reference to the measurements of ions in tissues during rest or activity .
G-aleotti has , however , measured the hydrogen ion in heart muscle .
S Method .
The method used in the present series of experiments was to prepare a frog 's sartorius muscle and arrange it for direct stimulation from an induction coil .
A high resistance reflecting galvanometer was used and the muscle was tetanised .
The muscle was tested with non-polarisable ( Ringer solution , \#166 ; calomel ) electrodes .
Two of these were placed to touch the muscle directly * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , p. 481 .
t J. Bernstein , ' Electrobiologie ' ( Braunschweig , Yieweg und Sohn ) , 1912 .
+ S. P. L. Sorensen , 'Ergebnisse der Physiologie , ' 1912 , vol. 12 , pp. 393-532 .
S G. Galeotti , ' Archivio di Fisiologia , ' 1904 , vol. 1 , p. 512 ; ' Zeits .
f. Allge .
Physiol. , ' 1906 , vol. 6 , p. 99 .
216 Dr. H. E. Roaf .
The Liberation of Ions arid the [ Jan. 10 , opposite each other and the muscle was stimulated .
If there was no definite deflection of the galvanometer , the cross-section of the muscle was considered to be iso-electric .
Some other form of electrode was then substituted for one of the calomel electrodes and the muscle was stimulated .
In order to avoid any influence of the stimulating current , the direction of the current in the primary coil was reversed and the stimulation was repeated .
Chlorine Ions .
The electrode used to replace one of the calomel electrodes was a silver wire coated with silver chloride .
The arrangement was Ag j AgCl | muscle | Ringer solution | HgCl | Hg .
This arrangement gave an electrical potential which was compensated in the usual way , and from the amount of compensation it was possible to calculate the concentration of chlorine ions in contact with the silver chloride-silver wire .
After the compensation was accomplished the muscle was stimulated , and the direction of the galvanometer deflection was noted .
The results showed that the silver electrode became more negative than it was with the resting muscle .
There are two contacts where the potential may be produced ; the contact Ringer solution-HgCl-Hg not being affected by the contraction of the muscle .
The first is the contact Ag-AgCl-muscle , and an increase in chlorine ions would produce the increase in negativity when the muscle contracts .
The second contact is that between muscle and Ringer solution , and the potential would depend on the relative ionic mobilities of the positive and negative ions set free .
Tor a binary electrolyte the formula would contain the ratio ( u \#151 ; v)/ ( u 4- v ) , where u = the rate of migration of the positive-ion , and v = that of the negative ion .
A positive ion diffusing away from the muscle more rapidly than the negative ion would cause the mercury electrode to become positive , that is , the silver would become negative .
The only positive ion that need be considered is the hydrogen ion , as that is the only one that would give an appreciable value for ( u \#151 ; v)/ ( u + v ) , and it will be shown in the next section that hydrogen ions are liberated when muscle contracts .
Against the possibility that when the muscle contracts the negative charge on the silver electrode is due to hydrogen ions diffusing into the Ringer solution , it may be pointed out that a saline electrode in contact with the active portion of a muscle becomes negative .
Hence there may be a. potential opposed to that due to the chlorine ions , and perhaps the action current may be added to the observed potential to give the true potential 1913 .
] Oxygen Tension of Tissues during Activity .
at the silver electrode .
If , however , the usual electrical change is due to an increased permeability of a membrane to negative ions both silver and calomel electrodes will be equally affected , and hence the Ringer solution may become positive from diffusion of hydrogen ions in my experiments , whilst with the usual arrangement of electrodes the negative charge at the membrane overbalances that due to the diffusion of the hydrogen ion .
The potential due to diffusion of the hydrogen ion should be reduced^to a minimum by excess of indifferent electrolyte in the Ringer solution and muscle lymph .
Hydrogen Ions .
Galeotti ( loc. cit.)used a hydrogen electrode to measure the hydrogen ion , but there is one objection to this electrode , namely , that if the electrode and the tissue in contact with it are saturated with hydrogen the behaviour of the tissue may be abnormal .
To avoid this difficulty I have used a different form of electrode .
Galeotti added the action potential to his observed potential , but until we know the true cause of the action current we cannot decide whether or no this addition is legitimate .
The oxygen electrode was not applicable and the reason for this will be found in the third section of this paper .
The electrode used to replace one of the calomel electrodes was a platinum wire covered with manganese dioxide.* The arrangement of the electrodes was Pt | Mn02 | muscle [ Ringer solution | HgCl | Hg .
Using this arrangement and compensating as before , on stimulating the muscle the platinum electrode showed a very strong positive potential ; so marked was the effect that a deflection was obtained by a single break shock .
This cannot be due to negative ions diffusing into the Ringer solution , because in the ratio ( u\#151 ; v)/ ( u + v ) the hydroxyl ion is the only one that would give any appreciable negative value and the liberation of hydroxyl ions would be more effective in making the manganese dioxide electrode negative .
Therefore , it is evident that hydrogen ions are liberated during muscular contraction .
Oxygen Tension .
Many text-books contain the statement that there is no oxygen tension in tissues .
The author has pointed out that there must be some oxygen tensionf and Verzar has shown , by an indirect method , the limiting values for submaxillary gland and muscle.* * O. F. Tower , ' Zeitschr .
f. physik .
Cheni .
, ' 1900 , vol. 32 , p. 566 .
t H. E. Roaf , ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' September 28 , 1912 .
X F. Verzar , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 45 , p. 39 .
-218 Liberation of Ions and Oxygen Tension of Tissues .
The electrode used to replace one of the calomel electrodes was a piece of platinum wire covered with platinum black .
The arrangement was Pt | muscle | Ringer solution | HgCl j Hg .
The platinum electrode in oxygen or air gave results which when the muscle contracted showed sometimes a positive potential , sometimes after a slight positive potential a negative potential , and sometimes only a negative potential .
The formula for the potential at a gas electrode contains the ratio ( / P Ip , where P = the partial pressure of the gas and p = the osmotic pressure of the corresponding ion .
From this ratio it can be seen that a fall in oxygen tension would produce the same effect as a rise in hydroxyl* ( fall in hydrogen ) ion concentration .
Therefore , there are two factors to consider , an increase in hydrogen ions , which tends to make the platinum positive , and a fall in oxygen tension , which tends to make it negative .
The deflections of the galvanometer would , therefore , be explained as a rise in hydrogen ion eoncentration which is frequently overbalanced by a fall in oxygen tension .
The proof of this is very easy .
When the access of air is prevented by a piece of rubber sheeting placed over the platinum wire as it lies against the muscle , the galvanometer may not show any deflection , but on stimulating the muscle the platinum becomes negative , thus indicating a fall in oxygen tension .
This experiment has been frequently repeated and it is possible to convert one form of reaction into another .
When the electrode is exposed to air the fall in oxygen tension is less , and hence , especially at the beginning of stimulation , the increase of hydrogen ions causes the platinum to become positive , but when the electrode is covered the fall in oxygen tension is greater , so that the rise of hydrogen ions is masked and the platinum always becomes negative .
It is evident that this result- may form the basis of a method for the direct measurement of oxygen tensions in tissues .
The results so far obtained are purely preliminary .
Measurements of the time relations and the actual potential produced will show whether the liberation precedes , accompanies or succeeds the muscular contraction and will give some approximation to the relative increase-in ionic concentrations .
Finally , it must be pointed out that the concentrations of ions measured are those in the lymph on the surface of the muscle .
An increase may be due to an actual increase in ionic concentration inside the muscle or to an increase in permeability of a membrane previously impermeable to the ion measured .
* Since the concentration of the doubly charged oxygen ion is proportional to the square of the hydroxyl ion concentration .

