]\gt ; 1888 .
] On the Maximum Discharge a Pipe .
145 perfectly independent , and if they were rigidly and perfectly corelated .
The observed value would be almost always somewhere intermediate between these extremcs , and would give the tiou that is wanted .
To conclude , the prominent characteristics of any two co-related variables , so far at least as I have as yet tested them , are four in number .
It is supposed that their respective measures have been first transmuted into others of which the unit is in each case equaI to the error of a sing-le measure in its own series .
Let deviation of the subject , whichever of the two variables may be taken in that capacity ; and let , \amp ; c. , be the corresponding deviations of the relative , and Jet the mean of these be X. Then we find : ( 1 ) that for all of ; ( 2 ) that is the , whichever of the two val'iabl es is taken for the subject ; ( 3 ) that is always less than 1 ; ( 4 ) that measures the closeness of -relation .
II .
" " On the Maximum Discharge rough a Pipe of Circular Section when the effective Head ; due only to the Pipe 's \ldquo ; By HENRY HENNESbY , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied llathcmatics in the Royal College of Science for Irelaud .
Received Novembcr 15 , 1888 .
In the papel on ' ' Hydrnulic Problems the -secbions of Pipes was shown that the greatest hydraulic mcftn depth was that for a channel formed by a segmen of a circle , and by an arc of .
It is easy to find by a similar process the wetted perimeter of a circular pipe to the maximm disc.harge when the velocity of the liquid is due only to the of the pipe .
Among formulae adopted by hydraulic engincers for , the velocity of liquid in a pipe whose hydraulic mean depth is , we select Darcy 's : which ves l ) where and are constauti cocfficients and I a quantity .
on the cliuation of pipe .
But as the discharge is the product of the velocity by the area of cross-secbion , have * ' Rov .
Soc. Proc is a small fraction compal'ed to and , and if this expression is developed we shall have very where is a constant .
This ves If make , we shall have therefore This equation may be satisfied by , or , a value less than .
The first gives a minimum , the second a maximum .
With With With With the first value the difference is ; with the third the difference is ; consequently the value between both may considered as the nearest to the truth , and in this value the is only , or less one-tenth of either of the others .
If or a circular pipe , nder the conditions above mentioned , carries more liquid when filled up to this arc than when quite full .
With the formulae of Chezy and Eytelwein , this would immediately follow .
1888 .
] Discharge through a Pipe of circular Section .
147 If the pipe wus quite full , and , bub for the maximum value of we have Hence The difference { hus exceeds S per cent. for the pipe which is filled up to the segment of .
The supplemental arc being it is easy to see that the maximum discharge would occur when the liquid falls below the summit of the inner surface of the pipe by about the twentieth of the diameter .
This resuIt might be called a hydraulic paradox , or the condition of a pipe oarrying liquid at a small inclination giving a greater discharge when filled up to nineteen-twentieths of its diameter than when completely full .
Note added December 19 , 1888 .
[ The hydraulic paradox here referred to as a deduction from the expression for ]lydraulic mean depth is not so ctically important as the question of veIocity of the liquid passing through the section of greatest hydraulic mean depth .
The maximum hydraulic mean depth for the pipe was found to be , while it is for a full pipe .
As the v ; locities may be taken as very approximately proportional to the square roots of the hydraulic mean depths , we shall have for the maximum velocity , Or the velocity for the maximum hydraulic depth exceeds the velocity for a full pipe under the conditions specified by per cent. This result may possibly be utilised in circular drain-pipes liable to be coated with ) sits .
]

