]\gt ; .
J. Larmor .
A Dynamical [ Dec. 7 .
[ IL ' .
A Theory of the Electric and Luminiferous dium By JOSEPH LARMOR , F.R.S. , Fellow of St. 's College , Cambridge .
Received NoYember 1 1893 .
( Abstract .
) since the causes of natural phenomena began to attract attention , the ineraction of the different classes of physical agencies has been taken suggest that they are all manifcstations in different ways of the energy of some fundamental medium ; and the efforts of the more sanguine class of naturalists have always been in some measure directed towards the discovery of the properties of this lnedium .
lt is only at the end of the last century that the somewhat ague principle of the economy of action or effort in actions \mdash ; which , like all other general principles in the scientific explanation of Nature , is ultimately traceable to a k , ind-- of metaphysical origin\mdash ; has culminated in the hands of Lagl'ange in his nificent mathem- atical generalisation of the dynamical laws of systems , Before the date of this concise and all-embracing formuIation of the laws of dynamics there was not available any engine of sufficient power and generality to allow of a thorough and exact exploration of the properties of an ultimate medium , of which the mechanism mode of action are almost wholly concealed from view .
The precise force of Lagrange 's method , in its physical application , consists in its allowing us to ignore or leave out of account altogether the details of the mechanism , whatever it is , that is in operation in the phenomena under discussion ; it makes everything depend on a single analytical function representing the distribution of energy in the medium in of suitable -ordinates of position and of their velocilies ; from the location of this energy , its subsequenli play and dynamical phenomena involved in it are all deducible by stl.aightforward mathematical analysis .
problem of the correlation of he physical forces is thus divisible into two , ( i ) the determination of the function which represents the distribution of energ.y in the primordial medium which is assumed to be the ultimate seat of all phenomena , and ( ii ) the discussion of what properties may be most conveniently and simply assigned to this medium , in order to the of enel.gy in it most vividly , in terms of the stock of notions which we have ived from the observation of that part of the interaction of natural forces which presents itself dircctly to our senses , and is formulated under the name of natural ] .
It may be held thab the first part really involves in itself the solution of the whole problem ; the second is rather of nature of and ex1893 .
] the lectric and Luminiferous Iiledium .
planation , by comparison of the intangible pl'imordial medium with other dynamical systems of which we can directly observe the phenomena .
The chief represenfative of exact physical speculation of the second of these types has been Lord Kelvin .
In the older attempts of this kind the dynamical basis of theories of the constitution of the aethel1 consisted usually in a play of forces , acting at a distance , between ultimate elements of molecuIes of the medium ; from this we must , however , except the specul tions of Greek philosophy and the continuous vorbical theories of the school of Descarbes , which were of necessity purely descriptive and imaginative , not budt in a connected manner on any rational foundation .
It has been in particular the aim of Lord Kelvin to deduce phenomena from the play of inertia involved iu the motion of a structureless pl'imordial fluid ; if this were achie it would reduce the duality , rather the manysidedness , of physical phenomena to a simple unity of scheme ; it be the uItimate conceivable simplification .
The celebrated vortex of matter makes the indestructible material atoms consist in vortex rings in a primordial fluid medium , structureless , eous , and frictionless , and makes the forces between the atoms which form the groundwork of less fundamental theories consist in the actions excited by these vortices on one another through the inertia of the fluid which is 1 , heir basis\mdash ; actions which are instantaneously transmitted if the fluid is supposed to be absolutely incompressible .
In case foundation insufficient , there is another idea of Lord Kelvin 's by which it may be supplemented .
The characteristic properties of ladiation , which forms so prominent an element in actual , can be explained by the existence of an elastic medium for its transmission at a finite , though very great , speed ; such a medium renders an excellent of all its relations , if we assume it to possess inertia and to be endowed with some elastic quality of lesistance to bance r ] analogous to what ws can obselve and stud iu ordinary elastic solids of the incompressible kind , such as india-rubber and jellies .
Lord Kclvin has been the and developer of a view by which the elastic forces between parts of such a medium may be to some extcnt got rid of as imate elements , and be explained by the inerfia of a spinning motion of a dynamically permanent kind , which is distributed oughout its volume .
If we very minute rapidly-spinning fly-wheels gyrostats spread through the medium , they will motion for ever , in the absence of friction 011 their axles , and they will thus form a concrete dynamical illustration of a type of elasticity arises solely from inertia ; and this abion will be of great use in some of the peculiarities of a elated Mr. J. Larmor .
A mamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , type , which I believe can be thoroughly established as the actual type of elasticity transmitting all radiations , whether luminous and thermal or electrical\mdash ; for they all one and the same\mdash ; through the ultimate medium of fluid character of which the vortices constitute matter .
lt has always been the puzzle of theories of radiation how the medium which conveys it by transverse vibrations , such as we know directly only in media of the elastic-solid type , could yet be so yielding as to admit of the motion of the heavenly bodies through it absolutely without resistance .
According to the view of the constitution of the aether which is developed in this paper , not only are these different properties absolutely consistent with each other , bub it is , in fact , their absolute and rigorous coexistence which endows the medium with the qualities necessary for the explanation of a turther very wide class of phenomena .
The remark which is the key to this matter has been already thrown out by Lord Kelvin , in connexion with Sir George Stokes 's suggested explanation of the astronomical aberration of light .
The motion of the ultimate homogeneous frictionless fluid medium , conditioned by the motion of the vortices existing in it , is , outside these vortices , of an absolutely irrotational character .
Now , suppose the medium is endowed with elasticity of a purely rotational type , so that its elastic quality can be called into play only by absolute rotational displacement of the elements of the medium ; just as motion of translation of a spinning gyrostat calls into play no reaction , while any alteration of the absolute position of its axis in space is resisted by an opposing couple .
As regards the motion of the medium involved in the movements of its vortices , this elasticity remains completely latent , as if it did not exist ; and we can once set down the whole theory of bhe tical hydrodynamical constitution of mat as a part of the manifestations of an ultimate medium of this kind .
We have now to indicate some of the consequences of the assumed constitution of the aether as regards the phenomena of adiation , which depend on elasticity : to do this it will be convenient to make a fresh start , dealing more particularly with the first part of the general question .
The true nature of the phenomena of had been brought to view at the begin1ling of the present century by the intuition of Thomas Young ; and the secret of the exact quanfitative mathematical laws which govern the behaviour of light in all the various circumstances attending its propagation , reflexion , and refraction had been fathomed in a marvellous manner by the genius of Fresnel .
The nature of the mathematical reasomng by which Fresnel was led to his results has for the most part never been understood ; and , as presented by him in his writings , it certainly seems devoid of 1893 .
] the Electric and Luminiferous dynamical coherence and formal logical validity .
Yet , the more the phenomena of light were afterwards experimentally examined , the stronger was the confirmation of the whole scheme of formulae at which ] he had arrived .
The explanation of the laws of physical optics advanced by Fresne ] , and verified by comparison with the phenomena , which was possible in several very exact ways , chiefly by himself and Brewster , was , about the year engaging the attention of several of the chief mathematicians of that time\mdash ; Augustin Canchy in France , Franz Neumann in Germany , George Green in England , and James MacCullagh in Ireland .
The prevalent mode of attacking the problem was through the analogy with the propagation of elastic waves in solid bodies ; and the comparison of 's laws of pro pagation in crystalline media with the results of the mabhematical theory of the elasticity of crystalline bodies gave abundance of crucial tests for the verification , modification , or disproof of the principles assumed in these investigations .
The treatment of Cauchy is earliest in date , but somewhat empirical and unsatisfactory in its logical aspects in the light of subsequent more precise knowledge of the conditiuns of the problem of the elasticity of solids .
The treatment of Neumann is also a sound and original piece of investigation , if we except the limited view of the elasticity of solids , that of Navier and Poisson , on which he based it .
The treatment by Green had the great distinction of incidentally laying , with all the generality and simplicity which we expect in an ultimate theory , the foundations on which every theory of elastic acbion in ordinary material bodies must in future be constructed ; it proceeded , in fact , on the basis of one of those great generalisations , of which the aggregate constitutes the all-embracing modern doctrine of energy .
) { hree authors all treated the question of reflexion and refraction of waves .
Cauchy could not make much of Fresnel 's formulae in any logical manner .
Neumann had the merit of clearly that the thing was impossible on his elastic solid theory ; so he dropped it altogether , assumed a sufficient number of principles might be taken , with fair probability , in accordance with general reasoning , to be satisfied in the reflexion and refraction of light rays , , complete continuity of media and continuity of energy in crossing the boundary at which the reflexion and refraction take place , and had the satisfaction of evolving a tion which agreed with Fresnel 's Iaws , and easily extended them to the much more complicated circumstances of crystalline media .
But to obtain this solution he assumed , from what he found necessary to make his very imperfect theory of propagation in crystals agree with Fresnel 's laws , that the density of the luminiferous medium is the same in all bodies , and that the displacement of plane-polarised light is in the plane of polarisation .
It may .
J. Larmor .
A Dynamical [ Dec. 7 , be shown , as is now indeed to be expected , that this is a totally wrong foundation to work upon , that Neumann 's general principles for the solution of the problem of reflexion are inconsistent with his elastic theory .
If he had adopted a converse procedure , and worked out problem of the reflexion of a ray on his general principles , and then deduced , by comparison with Fresnel 's formulae , the of density of the luminiferous medium and the direction of the )ration in planepolarised light , he would have been entitled to the credit of a joint discoverer in the domain of the dynamics of reilexion .
But , for the reasons here indicated , the credit of that discovery must , I think , be assigned to MacCullagh .
The ievements by which the memory of MacCullagh is now to a great extent preserved are his very elegant investigations in the domain of pure Euclidian geometry .
He may be claimed to be an instance of the numerous cases from Archimedes down through Descartes , Newton , and , we may add , Thomas Young , in which keen geometrical insight has formed a key for unlocking the formal lawf of physical actions .
He was first attracted to esnel 's laws 01 optics by the very simple and eIegant geometrical relations to which they lead .
At a later period he proposed to himself the problem to hit off the extension of Fresnel 's laws of reflexion which would apply to crystalline media , in the light of the crucial conditions afforded by the delicate experiments of Brewster and , at a later , Seebeck , to which such a theory must conform .
He had thus to cast about for geometrical lciples on which Fresnel 's laws might be founded , such as would admit of easy extension to the more general problem .
He early came upon the principle of continuity of the media , which he put in the geometrical form that the resultant of the displacements in the refracted waves is equal to the resultant of the displacements in the incident reflected waves .
As the other necessary condition , he was not at first successful .
The density of tlJe medium he took to be the same in all bodies , because he could not imagine it to be aeolotropic , or different in diiferent directions , in crystalline media .
He assumed the vibrations to be in the plane of polarisation , from considerations of geometrical symmetry and necessity , confirmed in the earlier by one of the of Cauchy .
The other condition above referred to took to be of certain pressures in the media , as imagined by Cauchy ; and by this he arrived at a satisfactory explanation of Brewster 's observations on the polarising angle in reflexion from crystals .
But Seebeck pointed out that this solution would not account for the values of the deviation of the plane of polarisation from the ] of reflexion , by means of which he had himself tested it .
Owing to this criticism MacCullagh was finally led to 's notion of pressure , and assume simply the continuity of energy in its place .
1893 .
] the and uminiferous 1Iedium .
This principle of , which gives a quadratic equation between the displacements at the , he succeeded to his satisfaction , as ards the conlirmation of ] views , in replacing by linear relations .
And then he gave his two magnificent geometrical theorems\mdash ; that of nsversals and that of the polar plane , which contain each in a sentence the complete specification of the of reflexion for the most general case of a transparent medium , and which form the culmination of the geometrical relations by which he was guided throughout this whole process of synthetical discovery .
His laws of reflexion are the same as Neumaun 's ; of them , as formal laws , these two authors must be regarded as the independcnt discoverers\mdash ; Neumann by a happy assumption suggested by reasoning at bottom illogical iu the light of subsequent knowledge , YacCullagh by a resolute attack on the observed facts with a view to them simple formulae .
But the greatest achievement of MacCullagh is that contained in his memoir of , two years after , entitled an " " Essay towards a Theory of Crystal ] Reflexion and Refraction He is in quest of a dynamical foundation for { he whole scheme of , which had been notably extended and confirmed by himself already .
He recognises , I think for the first time in a capital problem , that what is equired is the discovery of the potential-energy function of Lagrange on which the action of medium depends , and that the explanation of the form of that fonction is another question which can be treated sepalately .
His memoir is subsequent to , but apparently quite independent of , that of Green , in which Green restricted the medium to a constitution like an elaslic solid , laid the general laws of such constitution for the first time , and made a magnificent failure of his attempt to explain optical phenomena on that basis .
If this thing was to be done , the power , simplicity , and logical rigour of Green 's analysis might have been expected to do it ; and nothing furtI ) has come of the matter until the recent new departure of Lord Kelvin in his speculation as to a bile clasbic-solid aether .
To return to MacCullagh , he is easily able to hit off a simple form of the potential- energy function , which\mdash ; on the basis of dynamics , or more compactly on the basis of the law of Least ) sweeps the whole field of optical theory so far as all phenomena are concerned in which absorption of the does not play prominent part .
He is confident , as any one who in detail must be , that he is on { he right .
He tries to obtain a basis for his energy-function , that is , to some matel.ial medium that shall serve as a model for it and its possibility and its mode of action ; he records his failure in this respect , but at the same time he protests against the limited view which old tic .
J. Larmor .
A Dynamical of [ Dec. 7 , down the unknown and in several ways mysterious and paradoxical properties of the luminiferous medium to be the same as those of an ordinary elastic solid .
The form of MacCullagh 's energy-function was derived by him very easily from the consideration of the fact that it is required of ib that it shal ] produce , in crystalline media , plane-polarised waves propagated by displacements in the plane of the wave front .
Though he seems to put his reasoning as demonstrative on this point , it has been out by Sir George Stokes , and is indeed obvious at once from Green 's results , that other forms of the besides MacCullagh 's would satisfy this condition .
But ths important point as regards 's function is that it makes the energy in the medium depend solely on the absolute rotational displacements of its elemsnts from their equilibrium orientations , not at all on its distortion or compression , which are the quantities on which the elasticity of a solid would depend according to Green .
Starting from this conception of rotational elasticity , it can be shown that , if we neglect for the moment optical dispersion , every crystalline optical medium has three principal elastic axes , its wave-surface is precisely that of Fresnel , while the laws of reflexion and refraction agree precisely with experiment .
Further , ib follows from observed fact of transparency in combination with dispersion , that the dispersion of a wave of permanent type is properly accounted for by addition to the equations , therefore to the energy-function , of subsidiary terms involving spacial differentiations of higher order .
To preserve the medium hydrodynamically a perfect fluid , these terms also must satisfy the condition that the elasticity of the medium is thoroughly independent of compression and distortion of its elements , and wholly dependent on absolute rotation .
It can be shown , I believe , that this restriction limits the terms to two kinds , one of which retains Fresnel 's wave surface unaltered , while the other modihes it in a definite manner stated without proof by [ ; but the first terms depend on an interaction between the dispersive property and the wave motion itseIf , while the second terms involve the square of the dispersive quality .
It seems clear that the second type involves only phenomella of a higher order of small quantities than we are here considering\mdash ; December 7 , 1893 ] ; thus an of dispersion remains which retains Fresnel 's wave rface unaltered for each homogeneous constituent of the light , hile it cJudes the dispersion of the axes of optical symmetry crystals as regards both their magnitudes and directions\mdash ; resuIts quite unapproached by any other theory ever enterta no In this analysis of dispersions , all terms have been tted possess a unilateral character , such as be indicated in actuality by rotatory risation and other such phenomena .
The laws of the Elecfric Luminiferous crystalline material structures seem to probibit ttJe occurrence of such asymmetry as these terms would ) dicate , except to the very small extent evidenced by the hemihedral faces of quartz crystals .
The influence on the optical medium of this asynlmetric arrangement of the molecules must be very much smaller still , for the rotatory terms are in all media exceedingly minute compared with the ordinary dispersional terms .
The form of these rotatory terms in the energyfunction is at once definitely assigned by our condition of perfect fluidity of the medium , both for crystals and for rotational liquids such as turpentine , and this form is the one usually accepted , on lfacCuIlagh 's suggestion , as yielding a correct account of the phenomena .
When dispersional terms are included in the energy function , our continuous analysis is not any longer applicable to the probIem of reflexion ; the conditions at the interface are altog.ether too numerous to be satisfied by the available variables .
is in fact tinuity at the in the discrete structure , such as could not be representable by a continuous analysis .
But if we proceed by the method of rays , and assume that there is a play of surface forces which do not absorb any energy , while they adjust the dispersional part of the stress , it appears that reflexion is independent of dispersion .
The treatment of the problem of reflexion by Fresnel involves a different ection of vibration of the light , and different surface conditions , from .
Ib is of interest to remark that this theory may be stated in a dynamically rigorous form , provided the medium to which it refers possesses the properties of the labile clastic-solid aether of Lord Kelvin ; and ] account of his analysis of the problem becomes more intelligible from such a stalldpoint .
The mention of the phenomena of magnetic rotational quality will introduce us to the next division of the subject , that of the inclusion of electrio and netic phenomena in the domain of the activity of this primordial medium .
The problem of the aether has been first ] attacked from the side of electrical phenomena by Clerk Maxwell in quite recent times ; his great memoir on a 'Dynamical of the .
Field ' is of date 1864 .
It is in fact only tively recently that the tion of Oersbed , and the discoveries deductions of , Faraday , and Thomson accumulabed sufficicnt material to allow the question to bc attacked from this side .
as it is , our notions of what constitute electric and magnetic are of the uest as oared with ideas of what itUtCS radiation , so that Maxwell 's views involve difficulties , not to say contradictions , and in places present obstacles .
J. Larmor .
A Dynamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , which are to be surmounted , not by logical argument or any clear representation , bnt by the physical intuition of a mind saturated with this aspect of the phenomena .
Many of these obstacles may , I think , be removed by beginning at the other end , by explaining electric actions on the basis of a mechanical theory of radiation , instead of radiation on the basis of actions .
The strong point of Maxwell 's theory is the electromotive part , which givss an account of electric radiation and of the phenomena of electromagnetic induction in fixed conductors ; and this is in keeping with the remark iust made .
The nature of electric displacement , of electric and magnetic forces on matter , .
of what Maxwell calls the electrostatic and the magnetic stress in the medium , of electrochemical phenomena , are all left obscure .
We shall plunge into the subject at once from the optical side , if we assume that dielecbric polarisation consists in a strain in the aether , of the rotational character contemplated above .
The conditions of internal equilibrium of a medium so strained are easily worked out from MacCullagh 's ession for , its potential .
If the vector denote the curl or ticity of the actual linear displacement of the medium , or twice the absolute rotation of the portion of the medium at the point considered , and the medium is supposed of crystalline lity and referred to its principal axes , so thab where is an element of volume , it follows easily that for internal equilibrium we must have a complete differential , and that over any boundary enclosing a region devoid of elasticity the value of must be constant .
Such a is the surface of a conductor ; is the electiric potential in the field due to chal.ges on the conductors ; is the electric displacement in the field , circuibal by its very nature as a rotation , and is the electric force derived from the electric potential The charge on a conductor is the integral of over any surface it , and be except by opening up a channel devoid of elasticity , in the medium , between this conductor and some other one ; in other words , electric discharge can take place only by rupture of the elastic quality of the aethereal medium .
[ At the interface between two dielectric media , taken to be crystalline as above , the condition comes out to be that the tangential electric force is contintlous .
When the circumstances those of equilibrium , arul therefore an electric potential may be introduced , this condition allows discontinuity in the value of the potentlit l in crosslng the tectric and the interface , bub demands that the amount of this discontinuity shall be the same all along the interface ; these are precisely the circumtances of the observed phenomena of voltaic potential differences .
The component , normal to the interface , of the electric displacement is of course always continuous , from the nature of that vector as a flux .
It may present itself as a difficulty in this theory that , as the electric displacement is the rotational displacement of the medium , its surface integral over any sheet should be equal to the line of the linear displacement of the medium l.ound the of the sheet ; erefore that for a closed sheet surrounding a conductor this integral should be null , which would iuvolve the consequence that the electric charge on a conductor cannot be diffel.ent from null .
This line of al'gument , however , implies that the linear displacement is a fectly continuous one , which is collcomitant with and required by electric displacement .
legitimate inference is that the electric displacement in the medium which corresponds to actual canno be set up without some kind of discontinuity or slip in linear displacement of the medium ; in other words , that a conductor cannot receive an elec charge without rupture of the medium ; nor can it lose a charge once eceived wibhout a similar rupture .
The of the linear displacement that remains , after this slip or rupture has been deducted from it , is of elastic , and must satisfy the equations of equilibrium of the medium .
\mdash ; December 7 , 1893 .
] We can produce in im gination a steady electric current , introdtlcing the complication of galvanic batteries , in the following manner , and thus mine in detail all that is involved , on the present , in the notion of a current .
Suppose we have two clIarged condensers , with one pair of coatings comlected by a narrow conductchannel , and the other pair connected by such as in the annexed , where the dark regions are dielectric and the white .
conducting .
If we steadily move towards each other the two plates of the condenser , a current will flow round the circuit , in the form of a conduction current in the conductors and a displacement current across the dielectric plates of the condcnsers .
Let us suppose the thicknesses of these dielectric plates to be excessively small , so as to minimise the importance of the displa.cement part of the xrrent .
Thero is then practically no electric force , erefore no electric displacement , in the sllrrounding dielectric field , except between the plates of the condensel.s and close to the collductwires .
Consider a closed surface betweell the faccs of the condenser , and intersecting the wire at a place P. A movemenb of the faces of this condenser alters the force veen t and therefore alters the electric displacement the portion of .
J. Lal.mor .
A ical of [ Dec. 7 , cIosed surface which lies in that part of the field ; as we have seen there is practically no displacement , anywhere else in the field except at the wire ; therefore to preserve the law of the circuital character of displacement throughout the whole space , we must suppose that this aIteration is compensated by a very change of displacement at the conducting wire .
So long as the movelllent of the plates continues , as long does this flow of displacement along the wire go on ; it the electl.ic current in the wire .
Now , in calculating the magnetic force in the field , which is the velocity of the medium , the of electric displacement , we mtlst include in our integration the effect of this sheet of electric displacement flowing the surface of the fectly conwires , for exactly the same reason as in the correlative nroblem in hydrodynamics , of .
the velocity of the fluid from the distribution of vorticity in it , Helmholtz had to consider a VOl.tex sheet as existing over each surface across which ] the motion is discontinuous .
The next in his mode of elucidation of electrical phenomena is to suppose , once the is started in our non-dissipative circuit , both the condensers are instantalleously removed , and replaced by continuit of the wire .
are now left with current round a complete perfectly conducting channel , in the absence of viscous fiow round permanently .
The expression for the kinetic energy in the field is easily transformed from a volume integral of the magnetic force , which is represented by the velocity of the medinm , to an .
the , which is in the present case a line round the .
The result is 's celebrated formula the electromagnetic of a lineal ' electric current , ; the Electric and Luminiferous Medium .
or ws may take the case of several linear circuits in the field , and obtain the formula which is snfficiently general to cover the whole ground of dynamics .
Our result is in fact that a linear ourrent is a vortex ring in the fluid aether , that electric current is represented by vorticity in the medium , and magnetic force by the velocity of the medium .
The current being carried by a perfect conductor , the corresponding vortex is ( as yet ) without a core , i.e. , it circulates round a vacuous .
space .
of a vortex ring is , however , permanently constant ; therefore , owing to the mechanical connexions and continuity of the medium , a current flowing round a complete perfectly conducting circuit would be unaifected in value by electric forces induced in the circuit , and would constant bout all time .
Ordinary electric currents must therefore be held to flow in incomplete conducting circuits , and to be completed either by convection across an electrolyte or by electric displacement or dischar , across the intervals between the molecules , after the manmer of the illustration givell above.\mdash ; December 7 , 1893 .
] Now we are here driven upon Ampere 's theory of magnetism .
Each vortex-atom in the medium is a permanent eJectric current of this kind , and we are in a position to the importance which Faraday attached to his discovery that all matter is magnetic .
Indeed , on consideration , no other view than this seems tenable ; for we can hardly suppose thal so prominent a quality of iron as its completely disappears above the temperature of recalescence , to reappear again immediately the iron comes below that temperature ; much the more reasonable view is that the molecular rearrangement that takes place at that temperature simply masks the permanent magnetic quality .
In all substances other than the magnetic metals , the vortex atoms pair into molecules and molecular aggregates in such way as to a large extent cancel each ] other 's magnetic fields ; why in iron at ordinary temperatures the molecular aggregates form so striking an exception to the eneral rule is for some reason peculiar to the substance , which , considering the complex character of molecular egation in solids , need not excite surprise .
We have now to consider the cause of the pairing ether of atoms into molecules .
It cannot be on account of the netic , i.e. , hydrodynamical , forces they exert on ono another , for two electric currents would then come together so as alwnys to reinforce each other 's lletic action , and all substances would be strongly magnetic .
The ionic eIectric charge , which the phenomena of eloctrolysis show to Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , exist on the atom , supplies the attracting agency .
Furthermore , the law of attraction between these charges is that of the inverse square of the distance , and between the atomic currents is that of the inverse cube ; so that , as in the equilibrium state of the molecule these forces are of tlJe same order of intensity and counteract each other , the first force must have much the longer range , and the energy of chemical combination must therefore be very largely electrostatic , due to the attraction of the ions , as von Helmholtz has clearly made out from the of ysis and electrolytic polarisation .
But in this discussion of the phenomena of chemical combination of atoms we have been anticipating somewhat .
All our conclusions , hitherto , relate to aether , and are therefore about electromotive forces .
We have not yet made out why two sets of molecular gates , such as constitute material bodies , should attract or repel each other whem they are charged , or when electric currents circulate in them ; we have , in other words , no to explain the electrostatic and electrodynamic forces which act between material systems .
Consider two charged conductors in the field ; for simplicity , let their conducting quality be perfect regards the very slow displacements of them which are contemplated in this argument .
The charges will then always reside on their surfaces , and the state of the electric field will , at each instant , be one of equilibrium .
The magniof the charge on eithel .
conductor cannot alter by any action short of a rupture in the elastic quality in the aether ; but the result of movement of the conductors is to cause a re-arrangement of the charge on each conductor , and of the electric displacement in the field .
Nowthe electric energy of the system is altered by the movement of the conductors , and no viscous forces are in action ; therefore the energy that is lost to the electric field must have been somehow spent in doing mechanical work on the conductors ; the loss of potential energy of the electric field reappears as a gain of potential energy of the conductors .
We have to consider how this transformation is bl.ought about .
The movement of the conductors involves , while it lasts , a very intense ideal flow of electric displacement along their surfaces , and also a real change of displacement of ordinary intensity throughout the dielectric .
The intense surface { iow is in close proximity with the eIectric flows round the vorrex atoms which lie at the surface ; their interaction a very ]ntense elastic disturbance in the medium , close at the surface of the conductor , which is distributed by radiation through the dielectric as fast as it is produced ; the elastic condition of the dielectric , on accotlnt of its extreme rapidity of propagation of disturbances compared with its finite extent , being always ] yneal .
lie one of equilibrium .
It is , I believe , the reaction on the conductol of these waveIets which are continually shooting out from its surface , carry1893 .
] tlnj Eleciric and niferous Ilfedium .
ing energy into the dielectric , that constitutes the mechanical forcive cting on it .
But we can go further than this ; the locality of this transformation of energy , so far at any rate as regards the material , is the surface of the conductor ; and the gain of mechanical energy by the conductor is therefore ectly located as an absorption of at its surface ; therefore the forcive acting on the conductor is correctly determined as a surface traction , and not a bodily orcive throughout its volume .
One mode of epresenting the distribution of this sulface traction , which , as we know , gives the amount of for every possible kind of virtllal displacement of the surface , is to consider it in the ordinary electrostatic manner as a normal traction due to the action of the electric force on the electric density at the surface ; we conclude that this distribution of traction is the actual one .
To recapitnlate : if the dielecbric did not disturbance so rapidly , the result of the commotion at the SUl'face by the motion of the collductor would be to continually start wavelets which would into the dielectric , cal.rying energy with them .
But the very great velocity of propagation effectually prevents the elastic quality of the medium from getting hold ; no sensible wave is produced and no flow of occurs into the dielectric .
The of pressure in the medium which would be the accompaniment of the wave motion still persists , though it now does no work in bhe dielectric ; it is this pressure of the against the conductor that is the cause of the mechanical The matter is precisely 1-llustrated by the fundamental of Sir George Stokes with regard to the communication of vibrations to the or gas .
The rapid vibl'ations of a tuning-fork are communicated as sound waves , but much less completely to a mobile medium like hydrogen than to ai The slow vibrations of a pendulum are not communicated as sound waves at all ; the vibrating body cannot get a hold on the elasticity of the medium , which retreats before it , preserving the equilibrium condition appropriate to the configuration at the instaIlt ; there is a pressure between them , but this is equalised throughout the medium as it is produced , without leading to any flow of vibrational energy .
Now let us formally consider the dynamical system consisting of the dielectric media alone , and having a boundary just inside the surface of each conductor ; and let us contemplate motions of the conductors so slow that the medium is always indefinitely near the state of internal equilibrium or steady motion , is conditioned at each instant by the position and motion of the boundaries .
The kinetic energy of the medium is the electrodynamic energy of the currents , as given by Neumann 's formula ; and the potential energy is the energy of the electrostatic distribution corresponding to the conformation at the instant ; in addition to these we shall have Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , take into account surface tractions exerted by the enclosed conductors on the medium , at its boundaries aforesaid .
The form of the general dynamical variational equation that is suitable to this problem is ow where represents the work done by the traotions acting on the element of the boundary , in the virtual displacement contemplated .
If there are eIectromotive sources in certain circuits of the system , which are considered bo introduce energy into it from outside itself , the right-hand side of this equation must also contain an expression for the work done by them in the virtual displacement con- templated of the electric afes .
Now this variational equation can be expressed in terms of any generalised coordinates whatever , that are sufficient to determine the configuration in accordance with what we know of its properties , If we suppose such a mode of expression adopted , then , on conducting the variation in the usual manner and equating the coefficients of each arbitrary variation of a -:oordinate , we obtain the formulae In these equations is a component of the mechanical forcive exerted on our dielectric system by the conductors , as specified by the rule that the work done by it in a displacement of the system represented , a variation of a single coordinate , is : the corresponding omponent of the forcive exerted by the dielectric system on the conductor is of course .
Also is the electromotive force which acts rom outside the system in a circuit in which the electric displacement is , so that the current in it is ; the electromotive force induced in this circuit by the dielectric system is -E .
These equations involve the whole of the phenomena of ordinary electrodynamic actions , whether or electromotive , whether the conductors are fixed or in motion through ) medium : in fact , in the latter respect no distinction appears between the They will be completed presently by taking account of the dissipation which occurs in ordinary conductors .
These equations also involve the expressions for the eIectrostatic omotive forces , the genesis of we have already attempted trace in detail .
The generalised component , corresponding to the -ordinate , of the electrostatic traction of the conductors on the dielectric system , is the component of the traction , 1893 .
] the Electric Luminiferous somehow produced , of the dielectric system on the conductors is The stress in the oether between two electrified bodies consists of a tangential jtion on each ] ement of area , equal in magnitude to the tangential component of the electric force at that place , and at angles to its direction .
The stress in the material of the dielectric is such as is produced in the ordinary manner by the surface tractions exerbed on the material by the conductors that are imbedded in it .
The stress in the dielectric of Faraday and Maxwell has no real existence ; it is in fact such a stress as wouId be lt by sulface of a conductor used to explore the field , when the conductor is so formed and placed as not to disturb the electric force in iihe dielectric .
The magnetic stress of Maxwell is simply a mathematical mode of expression of the kinetic reaction of the The transfer of a charged body the field with velocity not large compared with the velocity of electric propagation carries with it the whole system of electric displacement belonging to the body , and nerefore produces while it lasts a system of displacement rents in the medium , of which the circuits are completed by the actual flow of chal.ge along the lines of motion of the different charged elements of the body .
The phenomena of the electrostatic tion of dielectrics were at one time provisionally represented by Faraday as due to the orientation of electric polar elements of the modium by the electric force , just as magnetisation is actually due to the orientation of the magnetic polar elements by the magnetic force of the field ; and this theory was developed at length by .
At a later period Naxwell himself ( ' Dynamical Theory , ' S 11 ) compared the electric displacement in a dielectric medium to an actual displacement of the electric charge on conducting molectlles imbedded in conception mathematically equivalent to the above .
In a previous paper*I have explained by simple reasoning that this view is inconsistent with the circuital character of the electric current , a conclusion in agreement with that of von Helmholtz , who adopted this idea in generalised theory of electrodynamics .
It is necessary to obtain a complete view of this matter from our present standpoint .
The polarised molecule , with its positive and ative ions , is as we have seen a reality ; but if the is to remain circuital , the action of electric force of the field must not affect the actions between the constituent vortices which are the cause of their orientation , nor the distribution the electric charges on the atoms , so mnch as to produce any sensible electric displacement of this kind .
These restrictions might be secured by taking the two poles of the molecule * " " On the Theory of Electrodynamics 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 49 , 1891 , p. 522 .
Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical theory of [ Dec. 7 , sufficiently close together , and by taking the dimensions of the conducting atom sufficiently small .
As regards the second of these hypotheses , it is to be observed that the moment of electric induction in a conducting atom depends only on its size , and not on the intensity of its free electrification ; for the case of conducting spherules the electric moment produced by the action of an electric force is multiplied by the total volume of the atoms , and this would give a dielectric inductive coefficient equal to three times the ratio of the aggregate volume of the atoms to the whole volume of the region , a result which is , in any case , far too small to represent the facts , and may easily be so small as to be quite negligible , so as to leave the current practically circuital .
But if we add on to this the first assumption , no room will be Ieft for the explanation of the pyro-electricity and piezo-electricity of crystalline media , ) changes of orientation of polar molecules due to changes of or to applied pressure .
If this very rational explanation is to be retained , we are driven to assume tlJat the electric force of the field does not sensibly alter the orientation of a molecule , which would then be wholly controlled by the internal electrical , chemical , and cohesive forces of the medium .
The state of matters thus required is , in fact , precisely realised by a symmetrical arrangement of positive and negative atoms in the molecule , such as the hexagonal molecule recently imagined by Lord Kelvin , * and earlier by J. and P. Curie , to account for the piezo.electric quality of quartz ; the symmetry of the electric charges makes null the aggregate electric moment and therefore the turning couple in an electric field , while a diiferential polarity can still be developed under strain of the crystal .
According to the present theory of electrification , a discharge of electricity from one conductor to another can only occur by the breaking down of the elasticity of the dielectric al some channel connecting them ; and a similar rupture is required to explain the transfer of an atomic charge to the electrode in the phenomenon of electrolysis .
We can conceive the polarisation increasing by the accumulation of dissociated ions at the two electrodes of a voltameter , until the stress in portion of the medium between the ions and the conducting plate breaks down , and a path of dischal.ge is opened from some ion to the plate .
While this ion retained its charge , it repelled its neighbonrs ; but now electric attraction will ensue , and the one that gets into chemical contact with it first will be palt.ed with it by the chemical ; while if the conducting path to the electrode remains open until this union is complete , the ion will receive an opposite atomic charge from the electrode , which very conceivably may have to be also of equal amount , in order to equalise *Lord Kelvin , 'Phil .
Mag October , 1893 .
the Electric and Lummife ' Medium .
the potentiaIs of the molecule and the plate .
is on the hypothesis that the distance between the two ions of a molecule is very small compared with the distance between two neighbouring molecules .
A view of this kind , if thoroughly established , would lead to the ultimate of atomic charges of all atoms that have been in tion with each other , even if those charge .es had been of diiferent magnitudes .
[ The assignment of free electric charges to vortex atoms tends markedly in the direction of instability ; though instability under certain circumstances is of ; sential to electric discharge , yet it must not be allowed to become dominant.\mdash ; December 7 , 1893 .
] The presence of vortex atoms , forming faults so to speak in the aether , will clearly diminish its eifective elasticity ; and thus it is to be expected that the speciiic capacities of material dielectrics should be greater than the inductive capacity of a vacuum .
The readiness with which electrolytic media break down under electric stress may be connected with the extremely high values of their inductive capacities , indicating very boreat yielding to even a small electric force .
The radiation of a body into the surrounding medium is wholly electrical , and is due to the electric vibrations of the atomic charges ; some of these types of vibration may correspond to the single atom by itseIf , while others will be considerably affected by the presence of the neighbouring atoms of the molecule .
The most striking fact to be explained is the total independence of temperature that exhibited by the periodic times corresponding to the various spectral lines .
The extreme smallness of an atom implies correspolldingly intense electri , and therefore independence of the external field .
If it is assumed that the dimensions and configuration of the atom are determined by the very intense between it and its partners in molecule , and are not sensibly affected by comtively feeble influence of the velocity of translation of the molecule through the medium , this fact will be accounted for ; larities can then only occur during an encounter with another molecule .
In the hydrodynamics of ordinary liquids , when the of isolated vortex ring is , the ring expands in radius , and therefore moves onward more slowly .
But in the case of an isolated charged atom , an expansion in radius diminishes the potential energy of the eIectric charge .
These two agencies each other ; if the latter one is the grcater , increase in will volve increase in velocity , as would be required the ordinary form of the kinetic theory of gases .
But the more natural supposition is , perhaps , to consider a molecule as composed of atoms paired so that the velocity of translation does not depend intrinsically on the amount Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , of energy associated with the molecule , but is determined by the circumstances of the encounters with other moleculcs .
The distribution of energy between the various vibration-types of the molecule , according to the law of Maxwell and Boltzmann , will not affect its con- figuration , while there is also perfect independence between the hydrodynamical motion of the medium due to the molecule and the radiation produced by it .
As regards the rotational elasticity of this hydrodynamical aether , on which we have made all radiative and electrical phenomena depend , it was objected , in 1862 , by Sir George Stokes*to MacCullagh 's aether , that a medium of that kind would leave unbalanced the tangential surface-tractions on an element of volume , and therefore could not be in internal equilibrium ; and this objection has usually been recognised , and has practically led to NacCullagh 's theory of light being put aside , at any rate in this coutltry .
Now , it has been already mentioned that a equivalent objection wilI apply to the elasticity actually produced by a gyrostatic distribution of momentnm in an ordinary solid medium , the only difference in the cumstances being that in the latter case the rotational elasticity is proportional to the angular velocity and not to the angulal ' displacement ; and this remark suggests that there must be some way out the difficulty .
If we consider the laws of motion , stated in Newton 's manner with reference to absolute space and absolute time , as fundamental principles , then it is also a fundamental principle that the energy of a spinning g.yrostat has reference to ] space , and is not relative to the material system which contains it .
The gyrostat may be considered as a kind of connexion binding that Qystem to absolute immovable space by means of the forcive which it opposes to rotation ; and this is the reason why the element of mass in a gyrostatic medium remains in equilibrium with ils translational kinetic reactions , although the tractions of the surroullding parts its surface are unbalanced and result in a couple .
If this mode of viewing the subject is regarded as , then must discard from dynamics the notion of absolute space , and we must set quest of some transcendental explanation of the directional in rotational systems .
In any case the g.eneral Lagrangian dynamical procedure applies precisely to the gyrostatic medium we have here taken as an illustration : nor , probably , would its application to MacCullagh 's aether be questioned , once the preliminary objection was removed .
orge kriticism h internal motions .
discussion of equilibrium and gation in such medium , see .
Lond. Math. Soc 1890 .
1893 .
] the Electric and Luminiferous Medium .
This question may also be ] illustrated from another side , by the consideration of an actual medium which possesses precisely the rotational elasticity of MacCullagh 's aether .
I allude to a solid medium with small magnets interspersed through it in any arbitrary but so that in any sirgle element of volume there is some regularity in their orientation .
If this medium when unstrained is in equilibrium in a netic field , then when an element of it is displaced rotationally it will be acted on by a bodily couple arising from this external field ; and thelfore the surface actions on the element would , in the presence of this couple , be unbalanced .
Here the .
cause is a magnetic forcive arising either from the medium as a whole or from some external system ; it has to be considered as of a statical character , that is , the velociby of propagation of magnetic action is supposed to be indefinitely great compared with the velocity of propagation of any disturbances that are under discussion ; the netic influence of the whole system is supposed to be instantaneously brought to bear on the element , and not merely the influence of the rounding parts .
On this hypothesis , the maguetic energy is here also correctly localised , dynamical purposes , in the element of volume of the medium , and Lagrangian method has perfect application to the analysis of its phenomena .
Now , in the case of the aether we have at hand a vera precisely of this kind .
The cause of the pljenomena of gravitation has ]Jitherto remained perfectly inscrutable .
Though the present order of ideas forbids us to consider it otherwise than as propagated , yet all we know of its velocity of propagation is the demonstration by Laplace that it must , at the very least , exceed the velocity of propagation of light in the me kind of proporbion as the latter velocity exceeds that of ordinary motions of matter .
It is not unphilosophical to assume that an explanation of gravitation might carry along with it the explanation of the fact that the tangential tractions on all element of the strained aether are unbalanced .
The dynamical phenomena of mass in mattel would appear to be analytically explicable by the addition of a otational part to the kinetic energy of the element of the medium ; such a term is of COUl'se practically null except in the vortex rings .
In all that has been hitherto said we have kept clear of the complication of viscous forces ; but in order to extend our account to the phenomena of opacity in the theory of radiation and of currents in ordinary conductors , it is necessary to introduce such forces and make what we can whem on general principles .
It is that the introduction of the dissipation function into dynamics by Lord Rayleigh enables us to amend the statement of the fmldamental dynamical principle , the law of Least Action , so as to clude .
J. Larmor , A Dynamical Theory of [ Dec. 7 , in it the very extensive class of viscous forces which are proportional to absolute or relative velocities of parts of the system .
This class is the more important becauss it is the only one that will allow a simple wave to be propagated through a medium with period .
pendent of its amplitude ; if the viscous forces that act in light propagation were not of this kind , then on passing a beam of homogeneous liglJt through a metallic film il should emerge as a mixture of lights of different colours .
The viscous forces being thus proved by the phenomena of radiation to be derived from a dissipation function , it is natural to extend the same conclusion to the elastic motions of slower periods than radiations , which constitute ordinary electric disturbances .
We thus arrive , by way of an optical path , at Joule 's law of dissipation of electric energy , and Ohm 's linear law of electric conduction , and the whole theory of the electrodynamics of currents flowing in ordinary conductors ; though the presumption is that the coefficients which apply to motions of long period are not the same as those which apply to rapid oscillations , the characters of the that are comparable in the two cases being quite different .
it is assumed that the form of the dissipation fnnction is the same for high frequencies as for low ones , we obtain the ordinary theory of metallic reflexion , which differs from the theory of reflexion at a transparent medium simply by taking the refractive index to be a complex quantity , as was done originally by Cauchy , and later for the most general case by MacCullagh .
And , in fact , we could not make a more supposition than this for the case of isotropic media ; while for crystalline media the utmost generality would arise merely from assuming the principal axes of the dissipation function to be diflerent from those of the rotational elasticity , a hypothesis which is not likely to be required .
It has been pointed .
out , originally by Lord Rayleigh , that to fit this theory to the facts of metallic reflexion it is necessary to take the real part of the index of refraction of the metals to be a negative quantity , which can hardly be allowed on other grounds , as it would imply instability of the medium .
We might indced , following the view of Willard Gibbs and others , imagine an interaction between the light wave and the free vibrations of the atomic electric charges , and through them the chemical vibration of the atoms , owin to proximity of their periods ; and we might possibly conceive the electric medium to be , so to speak , held together by this kind of support .
But I think there is another and simpler alternative that is interesting to notice that , already in his memoir of 1864 , Maxwell is struck by the identity of the coefficients of the free aether for all periods , which ' .
shows how perfect and the elastic properties of the medium must be when not encumbered with any matter denser than air 1893 .
] the Electric and Luminiferous Jledium .
merits examination ; we might conceive the opacity at the surface to be so great that a sensible part of the light is lost before it has penetrated more than a very small fraction of a wave-length .
In the extreme case of electric waves of length reflected from metals , the absorption is complete in a very small fraction of the wave , and the result is total reflexion , as from a vacuum ; on the other hand , if the opacity is but slight , the phenomena ought to agree approximately with those of transparent media .
It seems worth while to examine the consequences of assuming that the optical phenomena of metallic reflexion are the of these cases than the second .
It seems worth while also to compare the facts for some medium not so opaque as metals with the formulae of Cauchy and MacCullagh ; the examples of maline crystal , and some of the aniline dyes which exhibit selecbive absorption , suggest themselves as affording crucial tests .
* The considerations which have here been explained amount to an attempt to extend the regions of contact between three ultimate theories which have all been already widely developed , but in such a way as not to have much connexion with one another .
These theories are Maxwell 's theory of electric phenomena , including Ampere 's theory of magnetism and involving an electric theory of light , Lord Kelvin 's vortex-atom theory of matter , and the purely dynamical theories of light and radiation that have been by Green , lfacCullagh , and other authors .
It is hoped that a sufficient basis of connexion between them has been made out , to justify a lestatement of the whole theory of the kind here attempted , notwithstamding such rors or misoonceptions on points of detail as will unavoidably be involved in it .
[ While writing this summary it escaped my memory that Kelvin has proposed a gyrostatic adynamic medium which forms an exact representation of a rotationally elastic medium such as been here described .
If the spinning bodies are imbedded in the aether so as to partake fully in its motion , the otational forcive due to them is proportional jointly to the angular momentum of a gyrostat and the angular velocity of the element of the medium , in accordance with what is stated above .
But if we consider the rotators to free gyrostats of the Foucault type , mounted on gymbals of which the outer frame is cal.ried by the medium , there will also come into play a steady rotatory forcive , proportional jointly to the square of the analternative view , in many respects preferable , is supplied by the assumption , with Sir George Stokes , of the existence in metals of an adamantine as was discovered by Airy for the diamond .
Cf .
Sir G. G. Stokes , 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc February , 1883 .
] Lord Kelvin ( Sir W. Thomson ) , 'Comptes Rendus , ' Sept. 16 , 1889 ; 'Collccted Papers , ' vol. 3 , 1890 , p. 467 .
Electric and lniniferous Medium .
[ Dec. 7 , gular momentum of the gyrostat and to the absolute angular displacement medium .
An ideal gyrostatic cell has been imagined by Lord Kelvin in which the coexistence of pairs of gyrostats spinlling on pal.allel axles in opposite directions cancels the first of thess forcives , thus leaving only a static forcive of a purely elastic rotational type .
The conception of an aether which sketched by him on bhis basis*is essentially the same as the one we have here employed , with the exception that the elemental angular velocity of ths medium is taken to represent magnetic force , and in consequence the medium fails to give an accounb of electric force and its static and kinetic manifestations .
A gyrostatic cell of this kind has internal freedom , and erefore free vibration periods of its own ; it is necessary to imagine that these periods are very small compared with the periods of light waves transmitted through the medium , in order to avoid absorption .
The ation of waves in this aether , havin periods of the same order as the periods of these free vibrations , would of course be a phenomenon of an altogether different kind , involving diffusion through the medium of energy of disturbed motion the gyrostats within the cells .
Lord Kelvin has shown that a fluid medium , in turbulent motion owing to vorticity distributed throughout it , would also possess rotational elasticity provided we could be assured of permanence .
Professor G. F. Fitzgerald proposes to realise such a medium by means of a distribution of continuous vortex filaments , interlacing in all directions ; if the vorticities of the filamsnts in an element of volume are directed indifferently in all directions , the molional part of the kinetic forcive on the element , which depends on the first power of the vorticity , will bs null , while the positional part dependon the square of the vorticity will remain , jnst as in the gyrostatic medium above considered .
The atoms may now be to consist of vortex rings their way among these vortex filaments , and thus very graphic and suggestive scheme is obtained ; the question of stability is however here all-important .
No ultimate theory final ; and schemes of the kind discussed in this paper may not inaptly be compared to structural formulae in mo ern ; they bind together phenomena that erwise -Aave to be taken as disconnected , though they are themselves provisional and may in time be replaced by more perfect representations .
The electric interpretation of MacCullagh 's optical equations , which forms the basis of this paper , was first stated so far as know by Professor G. F. FitzGerald , 'Phil .
' 1880 .
I recently , from a eference in Mr. Glnzebrook 's Address , British Association , 1893 , that an electric development of Lord Kelvin 's *Lord Kelvin ( Sir W. Thomson ) , 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 3 , 1890 , pp. 436\mdash ; 472 .
1893 .
] Presents .
rotational aether has been essayed by Mr. Heaviside , who found it to be unworkable as regards conduction-current , and not sufficiently comprehensive ( ' Phil. Trans 1892 , S 16 ; 'Electrical ' vol. 2 , p. 543 ) .
A method of representing the phenomena of the electric field by the motion of tubes of electric displacement has been developed by Professor J. J. Thomson , who draws attention to their strong analogies to tubes of vortex motion ( ' ' Recent Researches .
1893 , p. 52 ) .
Professor Oliver has kindly looked for an effect of a netic field on the velocity of light , but has not been able to detect any , the means he employed were extremely searching ; the ference would follow , on this theory , that the motion in a magnetic field is very slow , and the density of the medium correspondingly great.\mdash ; December 18 , 1893 .
] IV .
" " On Copper Electrolysis in Vacuo By GANNON , M.A. Communicated by Professor SCHUSTER , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] .
" " Note on the Action of Copper Sulphate and Sulphuric Acid on Metallic Copper By ARTHUR SCHUSTER , F.R.S. Rcceived November 14 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred VI .
" " On a Chart of the Symmetrical Curves of the Thrce-Bal Motion By W. BRENNAND .
Communicated by .
B. CLARKE , F.li .
S. Reccived November , 1893 .
esenbs , December 7 , 1893 .
Transactions .
more : and Chirurgical Fa ulty of the State of Mal.yland .
Transactions .
94th Annual Session . .
Baltimorc 1892 .
Batavia :Koninkl .
Natuurkundige .
Natuurkundig Tijdschrift .
Deel LII . .
Batovia 1893 .
The Society .
Berlill : fur Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXVIII .
No. 3 . .
Berlin 1893 .
The Society .

