On the Nervous Circle which connects the voluntary Muscles with the Brain .
By Charles Bell , Esq. Communicated by the President , January 25 , 1826 .
Read February 16 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 163 .
] The author 's object in this communication is to show that every muscle is supplied with two nerves of different properties , and that where nerves of different functions have a separate origin , and run a different course , two nerves must unite in the muscle in order to perfect the relation betwixt the brain and those muscles .
Referring to his former observations , Mr. Bell remarks , that when he had distinguished two classes of nerves going to the face , and had deprived the muscles of motion by dividing the nerve , a question naturally suggested itself as to the use of the remaining nerves , more especially on finding that the 5th pair , or sensitive nerve , was more profusely distributed to the muscles than to the skin , although they are found in surgical operations by no means to possess that exquisite sensibility which such abundance of nerves would appear to indicate .
The lower maxillary nerve , which is a branch of the fifth pair , is composed of a nerve of sensation and a nerve of 'motion , arising in two sorts , one the sensitive , the other the muscular .
On the former division the Gasserian ganglion is formed , but the motive nerve may be traced clear of the ganglion to the muscles of the jaws .
Now if all that is necessary to the action of a muscle be a nerve to excite contraction , these branches , says the author , should have been unaccompanied ; but , on the contrary , they are joined before they enter the muscles by the sensitive nerves of the ganglion .
These and similar facts and observations lead Mr. Bell to ask why nerves of sensation are thus profusely given in addition to their motive nerves ; and in the progress of this inquiry , he shows that a consciousness of the state and degree of action of the muscles is necessary to the governance of the muscular frame ; that motive nerves are not those by which such information is conveyed to the brain , for they are concerned in carrying the influence of the will to the muscle ; and it is not likely that the same nerve should be active in two directions at the same moment ; for , without reference to the cause , a simple nerve has the influence propagated along it in one direction only , and cannot be shown to act both from and to the sensorium , as may be proved by actual experience , and in illustration of which , Mr. Bell refers to the effects of sundry nerves , and to certain cases of their morbid affections .
The author , therefore , concludes that between the brain and muscles there is a circle of nerves , that one nerve conveys the influence of the brain to the muscle , and that another gives the sense of the condition of the muscle to the brain .
If this circle be broken by the division of the motive nerve , motion ceases ; if it be broken by the division of the other nerve , there is no longer a sense of the condition of the muscle , and therefore no regulation of it actively .
Mr. Bell concludes this paper with some remarks upon the use of the plexus formed on both sets of nerves , and on their association upon the integuments .
In regard to the plexuses , he considers them as concerned in associating the functions of distinct muscles ; and in reference to the surface of the body , he remarks , that although the principal office of its nerves is to convey impressions to the sensorium , yet , on the other hand , the condition of the mind is often forcibly communicated to the skin .
Hence the striking union of the branches of the fifth pair with the portio dura of the seventh pair in the integuments of the head and face .

