III .
Letter from Dr. W. BIRD HERAPATH to Professor STOKES , " On the Detection of Strychnia by the formation of Iodostrychnia .
" Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received June 12 , 1856 .
Bristol , June 7,1856 .
MY DEAR SIR , -Will you do me the favour to announce to the Royal Society , that I have been engaged during some time past in the application of my discovery of the optical properties of iodostrychnia to the detection of this alkaloid in medico-legal inquiries ?
I find it is perfectly possible to recognize the 10,000th part of a grain of strychnia in pure solutions by this method , even when experimenting on very minute quantities .
In one experiment I took --Joth of a grain only , and having produced ten crystals of nearly equal size , of course each one , possessing distinct and decided optical properties , could not represent more than the y1---oth part of a grain ; in fact , it really represents much less , inasmuch as one portion of the strychnia is converted by substitution into a soluble hydriodate , and of course remains dissolved in the liquid .
I had hoped to have been able to complete this matter during this summer , but I now find it impossible to do so in time for this session of the Royal Society .
I trust to be able to do so before Christmas , however .
Will you oblige me by getting this notice inserted in the 'Proceedings , ' as a new test for strychnia at this juncture possesses considerable interest , the colour-tests having been so dubiously spoken of recently by toxicologists ?
In order to operate in this experiment , it is merely necessary to use diluted spirit of wine , about in the proportions of one part of spirit to three of water , as the solvent medium , and to employ the smallest possible quantity of the tincture of iodine as the reagent , and after applying heat for a short time , to set in repose .
On spontaneous evaporation or cooling , the optical crystals deposit themselves , and may be recognized by the polarizing microscope , according to the description given of this substance in a former notice to the Society in June last .
You may remember that this proposition was also contained in my paper on iodo-strychnia , which was withdrawn from the Royal Society by me in June last in consequence of a necessity for revision and the completion of experiments requisite to settle the formula of that peculiar substance , and the introduction of an abstract of the literature concerning it .
I remain , &amp;c. , W. BIRD HIERAPATHL .

