Declination and Horizontal Force .
.1879 .
] and horizontal force are subject to a periodical variation , the duration of which is equal to that of the known eleven-year sun-spot period .
2 .
That the epochs of minimum and maximum of magnetic and sun-spot effect are nearly coincident ; the magnetic epochs , on the whole , occurring somewhat later than the corresponding sun-spot epochs .
The variations of duration in different periods appear to he similar for both phenomena .
3 .
That the occasional more sudden outbursts of magnetic and sunspot energy , extending sometimes over periods of several months , appear to occur nearly simultaneously , and progress collaterally .
4 .
That it seems probable that the annual inequalities of magnetic diurnal range are subject also to periodical variation , being increased at the time of a sun-spot maximum , when the mean diurnal range is increased , and diminished at the time of a sun-spot minimum , when the mean diurnal range is diminished .
Conclusions Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 appear to .
be sufficiently certain , but the evidence in favour of Wo. .
4 is not so decisive .
May 15 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on a recent Communication by Messrs. Living and Dewar .
" By J. Norman JLockyer , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1879 .
In my paper of last December* I called attention to the importance of discussing Young 's observations of the chromospheric lines in connexion with the spectra of the metallic elements .
In subsequent .communications I have given preliminary results of this discussion so far as it has already proceeded .
Since my paper was read Messrs. Living and Dewar have , in a paper printed in the last number of the " Proceedings , " given a table which professes to state the number of times various lines in certain metals were seen by Young in connexion with certain reversal phenomena observed by themselves .
The statements , however , made in this table with regard to the * " Proceedings , " vol. xxyiii , p. 172 .
46 Note by Mr. Norman Lockyer .
[ May 15 , visibility of certain lines in the chromosphere do not appear to be in accordance with Young 's published tables , and as Messrs. Liveing and Dewar have in a still later paper drawn theoretical conclusions from these statements , I tbink it desirable to call attention to the fact , in order to prevent any confusion which might otherwise arise .
It will be sufficient to refer to two cases :\#151 ; I. Messrs. Liveing and Dewar state that two lines of aluminium , the wave-lengths of which they give as 6245 and 6237 , have each been seen by Young eight times .
According to Thalen 's measurements , which are the best that we possess , there are no lines of aluminium in these positions . .
He gives , however , lines at 6244'G and 6234'0 , Young , moreover , states that he saw reversed a strong line ( clearly shown in Angstrom 's map to be an iron line ) at 6245'4 , and a line which he does not ascribe to any element at 6237'3 , which is more than three divisions of the scale from the position of the aluminium line .
II .
In the case of potassium , Messrs. Liveing and Dewar give two lines at wave-lengths 4044 and 4042 as having been seen by Young three times .
I know of no potassium lines at the places given ; Young moreover has recorded the reversal of no potassium line in this region .
What Young distinctly states he saw , was the reversal of the iron line at 4045'0 , which is one of the most marked iron lines in the spectrum of the sun .
To this reversal I referred in my paper of December 12th.* It is perfectly true that there are two potassium lines in this region ; they were not mapped by Thalen , and they were only seen as a single line by Lecoq de Boisbaudranf and the wave-length , given as 4045 , as his dispersion was limited , did not enable us to determine its true position with reference to the Fraunhofer lines .
Last year , however , I not only stated the double nature of this line on photographic evidence , J and pointed out that both components were absent from the spectre normal , but I gave their wave-lengths as 4042'75 and 4046-28 ( positions which will only find the last place of decimals altered , even if it be altered , in the revision of the map now being proceeded with ) , and on the strength of them announced the existence of potassium in the sun .
Messrs. Liveing and Dewar do not state whence their .
wave-lengths were derived , neither do they refer to my communication .
It would appear therefore not only that the reference to Young 's work in many cases is founded upon some misunderstanding , but that a higher degree of accuracy than that employed by Messrs. Liveing and Dewar is necessary to determine such coincidences .
I may state generally that my eleven years ' work on this special branch has led * " Proceedings , " vol. xxviii , p. 172 .
+ " Spectres Lumineux , " texte , p. 48 .
X " Proceedings , " vol. xxvii , p. 280 .
I 1879 .
] Sir la Limit Ultraviolette du Spectre Solaire .
47 i me to the conclusion that all statements of coincidences between I metallic and solar lines with a lower degree of accuracy than that I employed by Thalen and Young are to be avoided when possible as I they may be worse than useless , they may mislead .
Indeed , though I the map on which I am working is on twelve times the scale of 1 Angstrom 's , it would be better if it were larger ; and when I say this I I must add my tribute of admiration of the accuracy of the work of I those who have preceded me , notably Angstrom , Thalen , Cornu , and Young , with whose work I am more familiar , as it is expressed in I wave-lengths .
II .
" Sir la Limit Ultraviolette du Spectre Solaire .
" Par Mons. A. Cornu .
Communicated by the President .
Received May 15 , 1879 .
Je me suis propose depuis plusieurs annees d'obtenir la limit extreme du spectre solaire du c6te ultraviolet , c'est-a-dire , du cdte des courts longueurs d'onde .
La connaissance exact de la limit de ce spectre ou plutot de la loi suivant laquelle decroit l'intensite du spectre continu ideal de la photosphere , apporterait sir la difficile question de la temperature du soleil des donnees au moins aussi impor-tantes que Jes mesures thermiques , correspondant a ax radiations a grande longueur d'onde .
Malheureusement , comme on va le voir , l'atmosphere terrestre exerce sir les radiations a court longueur d'onde un absorption si ener-gique que la majeure party du spectre solaire ultraviolet est inter-ceptee d'une maniere complete ; l'etude que je m'etais proposee est done actuelleme'nt impossible sous la form simple que j'avais ima-ginee ; neanmoins les resultats obtenus en vue de ces recherches pre-sentent quelque interet , meme au point de vue auquel je m'etais primitivement place ; ils jettent , erP\gt ; tous cas , un certain jour sir l'allure probable de l'absorption atmospherique a l'autre extremite du spectre moins facile a etudier , et montrentque le phenomene thermique est plus complexe que no le suppose le mode experimental generale-ment adopt pour revaluation de la temperature du soleil .
Pour rester dans le domaine des faits et de leurs consequences les plus immediates , je me bomerai ici a donner un resume succinct des experiences a l'aide des quelles j'ai cherche a obtenir photographique-ment la limit extreme ultraviolette du spectre solaire et l'analyse des conditions qui permettraient de reculer un peu cette limit .
Mode d'Observation .
Le spectroscope dont je me sers generalement est compose d'un collimateur et d'une lunette , dont les objectifs sont respectivement

