VII .
An Abstract of a Letter from Petrus Van Muschenbroek , M. D. F. R. S. Professor of Mathematicks and Astronomy in the University of Utrecht , in Holland ; to Dr. J. T. Desaguliers , F. R. S. concerning Experiments made on the Indian Magnetick-Sand .
SIR , I Do n't know whether I dare take up your Time with my Trifles ; yet I 'll venture for once to acquaint you with some things concerning the IndianSand , which is attracted by the Loadstone .
The Indian-Sand which is brought to Holland , is said to be chiefly gathered upon the Sea-shore in Persia ; then it is boiled in Water , to free it from its Saltness , and it is after this a black Powder , consisting of Grains of different Bigness ; some of which have a very rough Surface , and others have one part of their Surface something rough , and the other very shining : Their Figure is very irregular , like Grains of common Sand , only this Indian-Sand is smaller .
These little Lumps have neither Taste nor Smell , and are friable , so as to be easily reduced to a very subtle Powder .
It has some Parts , which are strongly attracted by the Loadstone ; and others so very inactive , as scarcely to seem to be magnetical : the strongest are the blackest ; but the inactive ones are more shining , and more inclining to the Colour of Lead ; these are in the greatest Quantity , and from them the others are got out by a Loadstone .
The Ingenious Moutenus has examined several ways such a kind of Sand which is brought from Virginia , and described it in the Philos. Trans. No 197 .
I have examined the Indian-Sand another way ; of which , I have given an Account in my Physical Dissertations , page .
127 ; but a great deal still remained to be considered , and as there is a great deal more of this Substance of the Lazy or Inactive , than of the Active or Magnetic sort , it was proper to try whether a Magnetic Virtue might not be excited or increased in all of it ; and after a few Trials I found the Thing to succeed .
I suspected that there might perhaps be too great a quantity of Sulphur adhering to the Sand , to suffer it to be turned into any Metalline Regulus by a long Continuance in the Fire ; therefore , I toasted it in an open Crucible for two Hours with half the quantity of Pot-ash ; afterwards I washed away the Salt with Water , and the Sand remained much blacker than before , of which I found more than a Quarter endued with a greater Magnetic Force .
I do not scruple to attribute this Virtue to the Salt ; because , tho ' the Action of the Fire alone does increase the Force of the Sand , yet it does not give it near so much attractive Force .
Because common black Soap is made of Oil boiled with a Lixivium of Pot-ash , I had a mind to try whether Soap might not do more than Salt alone in raising the Virtue in the Sand ; so I mixed the Sand with an equal quantity of Soap , which I first exposed to a gentle Fire in an open Crucible , to dry up the Soap which swells very much ; then the Fire was increased for three quarters of an Hour , all the oily Substance wholly consumed , and the Matter in the Crucible was strongly fired ; then afterwards boiling it in Water , and washing it well , I obtained a black Sand , which was all endued with a lively attracting Force .
Very well pleased with this Success , I had a Mind to try whether I might raise a greater Force in it ; wherefore I again roasted it with black Soap as before , and even a third Time ; but no Addition was thereby made to its Virtue : I find that staying too long in the Fire is as prejudicial as staying too short a Time , between half an Hour and an Hour seemed to me the most proper space of Time .
After , I added to the black Soap half of Salt of Tartar , and mixed thereto an equal quantity of Sand ; which , when it had been exposed to a reverberatory Fire ~ of an Hour in a Crucible , I washed in Water ; and then so great was the Virtue of the Sand , that if it did not exceed the former , at least it was equal to it .
Because I had observed the Oiliness of the Soap to conduce much to excite the Virtue in the Sand ; I mixed Beef-Tallow with an equal quantity of Sand , and having very well closed the Crucible , I exposed the whole Mass to a reverberatory Fire for two Hours , whereby the Sand became much blacker , and received a great deal of attractive Virtue : but that Sand became much more active which was burned two Hours with an equal quantity of Pitch , as likewise very black , subtle , and very little shining : but when it was exposed a longer Time in the same Crucible , I observed it to be weaker ; as also , when it was in the Crucible with the Pitch but ~ of an Hour , it scarce acquired any Virtue ; so that there must be a determined Action of Fire to raise the Virtue in the Sand .
Yet I cou 'd not raise a greater Virtue in the Sand than by the means following , viz. mixing the Sand in the Crucible with equal parts of Rosin , Pitch , Frankincense , and Rape Oil , and exposing it to a reverberatory Fire for an Hour , having first well closed up the Crucible .
Between the black Coals of the oily Matter , there sticks a very black Sand , which leaps up swiftly to the Loadstone , as soon as it is brought near it .
Then I considered whether the Sand did not acquire the greatest Force as it came nearer to the Nature of Steel , by burning it with the Bodies abovemention 'd ; and suspecting this , in order to try it , I put it among such Bodies as turn Iron into Steel , according to the Operations described by that great Experimenter Mons. Reaumur , in that excellent Book , entitluled , The Art of turning Iron into Steel .
I took therefore three parts of Sand , two parts of Chimney-Soot ; and of Sea-Salt , Powdered Charcoal , and Ashes , one Part each .
Having accurately curately mixed all these Bodies together , they were exposed for six Hours in a close Crucible to a strong Fire ; and then the whole Mass was boiled and washed in Water , then dried , and so received a great deal of attracting Force ; but it was not near so active as that which was prepared with Soap , or in the manner last described .
And now , what can this Sand be ?
Is it an imperfect Magnet , or subtle Powder of it , which when it is grown up into a greater Lump , makes the vulgar Loadstones ?
So I conjectured at first ; but when I found by Experience that common Loadstones exposed to the Fire , according to some of the Methods abovemention 'd , did rather lose of their Force than gain , I altered my Opinion ; and now confess that I have not yet penetrated into the Knowledge of the Nature of this Matter .
Whatever it be , it is certain that there are severa kinds of this Sand , brought from different Countries of the Earth : For it is brought from Persia ; some is brought from Virginia ; there is another sort in Italy , which is common enough at Leghorn , and this last is naturally very attractive ; there are two sorts found in the Eber , a River of Hassia ; of which , one is like the Italian , and the other consists of large Grains , almost as big as Hemp-Seed , but scarce having any Virtue .
I have besides a very strong Sort , which I am told was got near old Ragusa in Dalmatia .
No Body knows how many kinds of this Sand there are : that Time , and the diligent Observations of Philosophers must hereafter show .
I herewith send you a little Box , containing one Paper with the natural Sand ; another , the Sand after having burned it with Soap in the manner described .
It is no Treasure ; but if you have none of it , it may be worth your Acceptance .
I am , Sir , Utrecht , Jan. Your , &amp;c. &amp;c. 15th , 1733 .
O. S. Petrus Van Muschenbroek .

