XKII .
" On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetationl ; with special reference to the Question whether Plants assimilate free or uncombined Nitrogen .
" By J. B. laws , Esq. , F.R.S. ; J. H. GILBERT , Ph. D. , F.R.S. ; and EVAN PUGH , Ph. D. ) F.C.S. Received June 21 , 1-860 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the earlier historv of the suibject , and especially to the conclusion of Saussuire , that plants derive their nitrogen from the nitrogenous compounds of the soil and the small amount of ammonia which he found to exist in the atmosphere , the Authors preface the discussion of their own experiments on the sources of the nitrogen of plants , by a consideration of the most prominent facts established by their own investigations concerning the amount of nitrogen yielded by different crops over a given area of land , and of the relation of these to certain measured , or known sources of it .
On growing the same crop year after year on the same land , without any supply of nitrogen by manure , it was found that wheat , over a period of 14 years , bad given rather more than 30 lbs.-barley , over a period of 6 years , somewhat less-meadow-hay , over a period of 3 years , nearly 40 lbs. and beans , over 11 years , rather more than 50 lbs. of nitrogen , per acre , per annum .
Clover , another leguminous crop , grown in 3 out of 4 consecutive years , had given an average of 120 lbs. Turnips , over 8 consecutive years , had yielded about 45 lbs. The graminaceous crops had .
not , during the period referred to , siown signls of diminution of produce .
The yield of the legurminous crops had falleni considerably .
Turnips , again , appeared greatly to have exhausted the immediately available nitrogeni in the soil .
The amount of nitrogen harvested in the leguminous and root crops was considerably increased by the use of " mineral manures , " whilst that in the graminaceous crops was so in a very limited degree .
Direct experiments further showed that pretty nearly the same amount of nitrogen was taken from a given area of land in wheat in 8 years , whether 8 crops were grown consecutively , 4 in alternation with fallow , or 4 in alternation with beans .
Taking the results of 6 separate courses of rotation , Boussingault obtained an average of between one-third and one-half more nitrogen in the produce than had been supplied in manure .
His largest yields of nitrogen were in the leguminous crops ; and the cereal crops were larger , when they niext succeeded the removal of the highly nitrogenious leguiminous crops .
In their own experiments upon an actual course of rotation , without manure , the Authors had obtained , over 8 years , an average annual yield of 57 7 lbs. of nitrogen per acre ; about twice as much as was obtained in either wheat or barley , when they were , respectively , grown year after year on the same land .
The greatest yield of nitrogen had been in a clover crop , grown once during the 8 years ; and the wheat crops grown after this clover in the first course of 4 years , and after beans in the secolnd course , were about double those obtained when wheat succeeded wheat .
Thus , cereal crops grown year after year on the same land , gave an average of about 30 lbs. of nitrogen , per acre , per anlum ; and leguminous crops much more .
Nevertheless the cereal crop was nearly doubled when preceded by a leguminous one .
It was also about doubled when preceded by fallow .
Lastly , an entirely unmanured rotationi had yielded nearly twice as much nitrogen as the continuously grown cereals .
Leguminous crops were , however , little benefited , indeed frequently injured , by the use of the ordinary direct nitrogenouis manures .
Cereal crops , on the other hanid , though their yield of nitrogen was comparatively small , were very much increased by direct nitrogenous manures , as well as when they succeeded a highly nitrogenous leguminous crop , or fallow .
But when nitrogenous manures v had been employed for the increased growth of the cereals , the nitrogen in the immediate increase of produce had amounted to little more than 40 per cent. of that supplied , and that in the increase of the second year after the application , to little more than one-tenth of the remainder .
Estiinated in the same way , there had been in the case of the meadow grasses scarcely any larger proportion of the supplied nitrogen recovered .
In the leguminous crops the proportion so recovered appeared to be even less ; whilst in the root crops it was probably somewhat greater .
Several possible explanations of this real or apparent loss of the nitrogen supplied by manure are enumerated .
The qiiestion arises-what are the sources of all the nitrogen of our crops beyond that which is directly supplied to the soil by artificial means ?
The following actual or possible sources may be enumerated : the initrogen in certain constituent minerals of the soil ; the combinied nitrogen annually coming down in the direct aqueous depositions from the atmosphere ; the accumulationi of combined nitrogen from the atmosphere by the soil in other ways ; the formation of ammonia in the soil from free nitrogen and nascent hydrogen ; the formation of nitric acid from free nitrogen ; the direct absorption of combined nitrogen from the atmosphere by plants themselves ; the assimilation of free nitrogen by plants .
A consideration of these several sources of the nitrogen of the vegetation which covers the earth 's surface showed that those of them which have as yet been quantitatively estimated are inadequate to account for the amount of nitrogen obtained in the annual produce of a given area of land beyond that which may be attributed to supplies by previouis maanuring .
Those , on the other hand , which have not yet been even approximately estimated as to quantity -if indeed fuilly established quialitatively-offer many practical difficulties in the way of such an investigation as would afford results applicable in any such estimates as are here supposed .
It appeared important , therefore , to endeavour to settle the question whether or not that vast storehouse of nitrogen , the atmosphere , affords to growing plants any measurable amount of its free nitrogen .
Moreover , this question had of late years been submitted to very externded and laborious experimental researches by M. Boussingault , M. Ville , and also to more limited investigation by MM .
Mene , Roy , Cloez , De Luca , Harting , Petzholdt and others , from the results of which diamiietrically opposite conclusions had been arrived at .
Before entering on the discussion of their own experimental evidence , the Authors give a review of these results and inferences ; more especially those of M. Boussingault who questions , and those of M. Georges Ville who affirms the assimilation of free nitrogeni in the process of vegetation .
The general method of experiment instituted by Boussingault , which has been followed , with more or less modification , in most subsequent researches , was that adopted by the Authors in the present inquiry ; naamely , to set seeds or young plants , the amount of nitrogen in which was estimated by the analysis of carefully choseii -similar specimens ; to emnploy soils and water containing either no combinied nitrogen , or only known quantities of it ; to allow the access of free air ( the plants being protected from rain and dust)of a current of air freed by washing from all conmbinedc nitrogen-or of a limited quantity of air , too small to be of any avail so far as any compounlds of nitrogen contained in it were concerned ; and finally , to determine the amount of combined nlitrogen in the plants produced , and in the soil , pot , &amp;c. , and so to provide the means of estimating the gain or loss of nitrogen during the course of the experiment .
The plan adopted by the Authors in discussing their own experimental results , was To consider the conditions to be fulfilled in order to effect the solution of the main question , and to endeavour to eliminate all sources of error in the investigation .
To examine a number of collateral questions bearing upon the points at issue , and to endeavour so far to solve them , as to reduce the general solution to that of a single question to be answered by the results of a final set of experiments .
To give the results of the final experiments , and to discuss their bearings upon the question which it is proposed to solve by them .
Accordingly , the following points are considered : 1 .
The preparation of the soil , or matrix , for the receptioni of the plants and of the nutriment to be supplied to them .
2 .
The preparation of the nutriment , embracing that of mineral constituents , of certain solutions , and of water .
3 .
The conditions of atmosphere to be stupplied to the plants , and the means of securing them ; the apparatus to be employed , &amp;c. 4 .
The chaniges undergone by nitrogenous organic matter during decomposition , affecting the quantity of combined nitrogen present , in circumstances more or less analogous to those in which the experimenital plants are growin .
5 .
The actioni of agents , as ozonie ; and the inifluience of other circumstances which may affect the quantity of combined nitrogen present in connexion with the plants , independently of the direct action of the growing process .
In most of the experiments a rather clayey soil , ignited with free access of air , well-washed with distilled water , and re-ignited , was used as the matrix or soil .
In a few cases washed and ignited pumicestone was used .
The mineral constituents were supplied in the form of the ash of plants , of the description to be grown , if practicable , and if not , of some closely allied kind .
The distilled water used for the final rinsing of all the important parts of the apparatus and for the supply of water to the plants , was prepared by boiling off one-third from ordinary water , collecting the second third as distillate , and redistilling this , previously acidulated with phosphoric acid .
Most of the pots used were specially made , of porous ware , with a great maniy holes at the bottom and round the sides near to the bottom .
These were placed in glazed stone-ware pans with inwardturned rims to lessen evaporation .
Before use , the red-hot matrix and the freshly ignited ash were 'mixed in the red-hot pot , and the whole allowed to cool over sulphuric acid .
The soil was then moistened with distilled water , and after the lapse of a day or so the seeds or plants were put in , Yery carefuilly picked bulks of seed were chosen ; specimens of the average weight were taken for the experiment , and in similar specimens the nitrogen was determined .
The atmosphere supplied to the plants was washed free from ammonia by passing through sulphuric acid , and then over pumicestone saturated with sulphuric acid .
It then passed through a solution3 of carbonate of soda before enltering the apparatus eniclosing the plant , tand it passed ouit againthrough sulphvuric acid .
CDarboniic acid , evolved from marble by measured quantities of hydrochloric acid , was passed daily into the apparatus , after passing , with the air , through the sulphuric acid and the carbonate of soda solution .
The enclosing apparatus consisted of a largo glass shade , resting in a groove filled with mercury , in a slate or glazed earthenware stand , upon which the pan , with the pot of soil , &amp;c. , was )laced .
Tubes passed under the shade , for the ingress and the egress of air , for the sinpply of water to the plants , and , in some cases , for the withdrawal of the water which condensed within the shade .
In other cases , the condensed water was remnoved by means of a special arrangement .
One advantage of the apparatus adopted was , that the washed air was forced , instead of being aspirated , through the enclosing vessel .
The pressure upon it was thus not only very small , and the danger from breakage , therefore , also small , but it was exerted upon the inside instead of the outside of the shade ; hence , any leakage would be from the inside outwards , so that there was no danger of unwashed air gaining access to the plants .
The conditions of atmosphere were proved to be adapted for healthy growth , by growing plants under exactly the same circumstances , but in a garden soil .
The conditionls of the artificial soil were shown to be suitable for the purpose , by the fact that plants grown in such soil , and in the artificial conditions of atmosphere , developed luxuriantly , if only manured with suibstances supplying combined nitrogen .
Passing to the subjects of collateral inquiry , the first question considered was , whether plants growing under the conditions stated would be likely to acquire nitrogen from the air through the medium of ozone , either within or around the plant , or in the soil ; that body oxidating free nitrogen , and thus rendering it assimilable by the plants .
Several series of experiments were made upon the gases contained in plarnts or evolved from them , under different circumstances of light , shade , supply of carbonic acid , &amp;c. When sought for , ozone was in nio case detected .
The results of the inquiry in other respects , bearing upon the points at issue , may be briefly summed up as follows : 1 .
Carbonic acid within groWing vegetable cells and intercellular passages suffers decomposition very rapidly on the penetration of the sun 's rays , oxygen being evolved .
2 .
Living vegetable cells , in the dark , or not penetrated by the direct rays of the sun , consume oxygen very rapidly , carbonic acid being formied .
3 .
Hence , the proportion of oxygen must vary greatly according to the position of the cell , and to the external conditions of light , and it will oscillate unlder the influence of the reducing force of carbonmatter ( forming carbonic acid ) on the one hand , and of that of the sun 's rays ( liberating oxygen ) on the other .
Both actions may go on simultaneously according to the depth of the cell ; and the once outer cells may gradually pass from the state in which the sunlight is the greater reducing agent to that in which the carbonmatter becomes the greater .
4 .
The great reducing power operating in those parts of the plant where ozone is most likely , if at all , to be evolved , seems unfavourable to the oxidation of nitrogen ; that is under circumstances in which carbon-m , atter is not oxidized , but on the contrary , carbonic acid reduced .
And where beyond the influence of the direct rays of the sun , the cells seem to supply an abundance of more easily oxidized carbon-matter , available for oxidation , should free oxygen or ozone be present .
As nitrates are available as a source of nitrogen to plants , if it were admitted that nitrogen is oxidated within the plant , it must be supposed ( as in the case of carbon ) that there are conditions under which the oxygen compound of nitrogen may be reduced within the organism , and that there are others in which the reverse action , namely , the oxidation of nitrogen , can take place .
5 .
So great is the reducing power of certain carbon-compounds of 'vegetable substances , that when the growing process has ceased , and all the free oxygen in the cells has been consumed , water is for a time decomposed , carbonic acid formed , and hydrogen evolved .
The suggestion arises , whether ozone may not be formed under the influence of the powerful reducing action of the carbonl-compounds of the cell on the oxygen eliminated from carbonic acid by sunilight , rather than under the direct action of the sunlight itself in a manner analogous to that in which it is ordinarily obtained unlder the influence of the active reducing agenlcy of phosphorus But , even if it were so , it may be questioned whether the ozone would not be at once destroyed when in contact with the carboncompounds present .
It is more probable , however , that the ozone said to be observed in the vicinity of vegetation , is due to the action of the oxygen of the air upon -minute quantities of volatile carbohydrogens emitted by plaiits .
Supposing ozone to be present , it might , however , be supposed to act in a more indirect maniner as a source of combined and assimilable nitrogen in the Authors ' experiments , namely , -by oxidating the nitrogen dissolved in the condensed water of the apparatus-by forming nitrates in contact with the moist , porous , and alkaline soil-or by oxidating the free nitrogen in the cells of the older roots , or that evolved in their decomposition .
Experiments were accordingly made to ascertain the influence of ozone uponl organic matter , and on certaini porous and alkaline bodies , under various circumstances .
A current of ozonous air was passed over the substances for some time daily , for several months , including the whole of the warm weather of the summer ; but in only one case out of eleven was any trace of nitric acid detected , namely , that of garden soil ; and this was proved to contain nitrates before being submitted to the action of ozone .
It is not , indeed , hence inferred that nitric acid could under no circumstances be formed through the influence of ozone on certain nitrogenous compounds , on nascent nitrogen , on gaseous nitrogen in conitact with porous and alkaline substances , or even in the atmosphere .
But , considering the negative result with large qualntities of ozonous air , acting upon organic matter , soil , &amp;c. , in a wide range of circumstances and for so long a period , it is believed that no error will be introduced into the main investigation by the cause referred to .
Numerous experimeents were made to determine whether free nitrogen was evolved during the decomposition of nitrogenous organic compounds .
In the first series of 6 experiments , wheat , barley , and bean-meal were respectively mixed with ignited pumice and ignited soil , and submitted for some months to decomposition in a current of air , in such manner that any ammonia evolved could be collected and estimated .
The result was , that , in 5 out of the 6 cases , there was a greater or less evolution of free nitrogen--amounting , in two of the cases , to more than 12 per cent. of the originial nitrogen of the substance .
The second series consisted of 9 experiments ; wheat , barley , and beans being again employed , and , as before , either ignited soil or pumice used as the matrix .
In some cases the seeds were submitted to experiment whole , and allowed to grow , and the vegetable matter produced permitted to die down and decompose .
In other cases , the grouind seeds , or mneals , were employed .
The conditions of moisture were also varied .
The experiments were continled through several months , when from 60 to 70 per cent. of the carbon had disappeared .
In 8 out of the 9 experiments , a loss of nitrogen , evolved in the pure state , was indicated .
In most cases , the loss amounted to about one-seventh or one-eighth , but in one instance to 40 per cent. of the original nitrogen .
In all these experiments the decompositioni of the organic substance was very complete , and the amount of carbon lost was -comparatively uniform .
It thus appeared that , under rare circumstances , there might be no loss of nitrogen in the decomposition of nitrogenous organic matter ; i)ut that , unider a wide range of circumstances , the loss was very considerable-a point , it may be observed , of practical importance in the management of the manures of the farm and the stable .
Numerous direct experiments showed , that when nitrogenous organic matter was submitted to decomposition in water , over mercnry , in the absence of free oxvgeni , no free nitrogen was evolved .
In fact , the evolution in questioni appeared to be the result of an oxidating process .
Direct experiments also showed , that seeds may be submitted to germiniation and growth , and that nearly the whole of the nitrogen may be found in the vegetable matter produced .
It is observed that in the cases referred to , in which so large an evolution of free nitrogen took place , the organic substances were submlitted to decomposition for several months , during which time they lost two-thirds of their carbon .
In the experiments on the question of assimilation , however , but a very small proportion of the total organic matter is submitted to decomposing actions apart from those associated with growth , and this for a comparatively short period of time , at the terminiation of which the organic form is retainied , and therefore but very little carboni is lost .
It would a.ppear , them , that in experiments on assimilation no fear need be entertained of any serious error arising from the evolution of free nitrogen in the decomposition of the nitrogenous organiic matter necessarily involved , so long as that is subjected merely to the exhaustion required to supply materials for growth in the ordinary process of germination .
On the other hand , the facts adduced afford a probable explanation of any snmall loss of nitrogen which may occur when seeds have not grown , or whenl leaves , or other dead matters , have suffered partial decomposition .
They also point out an objection to the application of nitrogenous organic manure in such experiments .
Although there can be no doubt of the evolution of hydrogen during the decomposition of organic matter , and although it has long been ad mitted that nascent hydrogen may , under certain circumstances , combine with gaseous nitrogen and form ammonia ; nevertheless , from considerations stated at length in the paper , the Authors infer that there need be little apprehension of error in the results of their experiments , arising from an unaccounted suLpply of ammonia , formed under the influence of nascent hydrogen given off in the decomposition of the organic imatter involved .
The Authors next consider the questions , whether assimilation of free nitrogen would be most likely to take place when the plant had no other supply of comubinied nlitrogen than that contained in the seed sown , or when supplied with a limited amount of combined nitrogeni , or with an excess of combined nitrogen ?
And againwhether at an early stage of growth , at the most active stage , or when the plant was approaching maturity ?
Combinations of these several circumstances might give a number of special conditions , in perhaps only one of which assimilation of free nitrogen might take place , in case it could in any .
It is hardly to be supposed that free nitrogen would be assimilated when an excess of combined nitrogen is at the disposal of the plant .
It is obvious , however , that a wide range of conditions would be experimentally provided , if , in some instances , plants were supplied with no more combined nitrogen than that contained in the seed , in others brouLght to a giveni stage of growth by means of limited extraneous supplies of combinied rnitrogeni , and in others supplied with combined nitrogen in a more liberal measure .
It has beeni sought to provide these conditions in the experiments under consideration .
In the selection of plants , it was thought advisable to take such as would be adapted to the artificial conditions of temperature , moisture , &amp;c. involved in the experiment , also such as were of importalnce in an agricultural point of view-to have representatives , moreover , of the two great Natural Families , the Graminaceae and the Leguminosee , which seem to differ so widely in their relations to the combined nitrogen supplied within the soil-and finally , to have some of the same descriptions as those experimented upon by M. Boussingault , and M. G. Ville , with such discordant results .
Thirteen experiments were made , 4 in 1857 and 9 in 1858 , in which the plants were supplied with no other combined nitrogen than that contained in the original seed .
In 12 of the cases prepared soil was the matrix , and in the remaining one prepared pumice .
Of 9 experiments with graminaceous plants , 1 with wheat and 2 with barley were made in 1857 .
In one of the experiments with barley there was again of 00016 , and in the other of 00026 gramme of nitrogen .
In only two cases of the experiments with cereals in 1858 , was there any gain of nitrogen indicated ; and in , both it amounted to only a small fraction of a imilligramme .
Indeed , in no one of the cases , in either 1857 or 1858 , was there more nitrogen in the plants themselves , than in the seed sown .
A gain was indicated only when the nitrogen in the soil and pot-which together weighed about 1500 grammes-was brought into the calculation .
Moreover , the gain only exceeded 1 milligramme in the case of the experiments of 1857 , when slate , instead of glazed earthenware stands were used as the lute vessels ; and there was some reason to believe that the gain indicated was due to this circumstance .
In none of the other cases was the gain more than would be expected from error in analysis .
The result was then , that in no one case of these experiments was there any such gain of nitrogen as could lead to the supposition that fJee nitrogen had been assimilated .
The plants had , however , vegetated for several moniths , had in most cases more than trebled the carbon of the seed , and had obviously been limited in their growth for want of a supply of available nitrogen in some form .
During this long period they were surrounded by an atmosphere containing free nitrogen ; and their cells were penetrated by fluid saturated with that element .
It may be further mentioned , that many of the plants formed glumes and paleve for seed .
It is to be observed that the results of these experiments with cereals go to confirm those of M. Boussingault .
The leguminous plants experimented upon did not grow so healthily under the artificial conditions as did the cereals .
Still , in all three of the cases of these plants in which no combined nitrogen was provided beyond that contained in the original seed , the carbon in the vegetable matter produced was much greater than that in the seed-in one instance more than 3 times greater .
In no case , however , was there any indication of assimilation of free nitrogen , any more than there had been by the gramminaceous plants grown under similar circumstan-ces .
One experiment was made with buckwheat , supplied with no other coml)ined nitrogen than that contained in the seed .
The result gave no indication of assimilation of free nitrogen .
In regard to the whole of the experiments in which the plants were supplied with no comibined nitrogen beyond that contained in the seed , it may be observed that , from the constancy of the amount of combined nitrogenpresent in relation to that supplied , throughout the experimenits , it may be inferred , as well that there was no evolution of free nitrogen by the growing planit , as that there was no assimilation of it ; but it cannot hence be concluded that there would be no such evolution if an excess of combined nitrogen were supplied .
The results of a number of experiments , in which the plants were supplied with more or less of combined nitrogen , in the form of ammonia-salts or of nitrates , are recorded .
Ten were with cereals ; 4 in 1857 , and 6 in 1858 .
Three were with leguiminous plants ; and there were also some with plants of other descriptions-all in 1858 .
In the case of the cereals more particularly , the growth was very greatly increased by the extraneous supply of combined nitrogen ; in fact , the amouint of vegetable matter produced was 8 , 12 , and even 30 times greater than in parallel cases without suchi supply .
The amount of nitrogen appropriated was also , in all cases many times greater , and in one case more than 30 times as great , when a supply of combined nitrogen was provided .
The evidence is therefore sufficiently clear that all the conditions provided , apart from those which depended upon a supply of combined nitrogen , were adapted for vigorous growth ; and that the limitation of growth where no combined nitrogen was supplied was due to the want of such supply .
Ju 2 out of the 4 experimenits with cereals in 1857 , there was a slight gain of initrogern beyond that which should occur from error in analysis ; but in no one of the 6 in 1858 , when glazed earthenware instead of slate stands were used , was there any such gain .
It is concluded , therefore , that there was no assimilation of free nitrogen .
In some cases the supply of combined nitrogen was not given until the plants showed signs of decline ; when , on each addition , increased vigour was rapidly manifested .
In others the supply was given earlier and was more liberal .
As in the case of the leguminlous plants grown without extralleous supply of combined nitrogen , those grown with it progressed much less healthily than the graminaceous plants .
But the results unider these conditions , so far as they go , did not itndicate any assimilation of free nitrogen .
The results of experiments with plants of other descriptions , in which an extraneous supply of combined nitrogen was provided , also failed to show an assimilation of free nitrogen .
Thus , 19 experiments with cereals , 9 withouit and 10 with an extraneous supply of combined nitrogen-6 with leguminous plants , 3 without and 3 with an extraneous supply of combined nitrogen , and also some with other plants , have been made .
In none of the experiments , with platits so widely different as the graminaceous and the leguminous , and with a wide range of conditions of growth , was there evidence of an assimilation of free nitrogein .
The conclusions from the whole inquiry may be briefly summed up as follows .
The yield of nitrogen in the vegetation over a given area , within a given time , especially in the case of leguminous crops , is not satisfactorily explained by reference to the hitherto quantitatively determined supplies of combined nitrogen .
The results and conclusions hitherto recorded by different experinenters on the question whether plants assimilate free or uncombined nitrogen , are very conflicting .
The conditions provided in the experiments of the Authors on this question were found to be quite consistent with the healthy development of various Graminiaceous Plants , but not so much so for that of the Leguminous Plants experimented upon .
It is not probable that , under the circumstances of the experiments on assimilation , there would be any supply to the planits of an unaccounted quanitity of combined nitrogen , due to the influence either of ozone or of nascent hydrogen .
It is not probable that there would be a loss of any of the combined nitrogen involved in an experiment on assimilation , due to the evolution of free nitrogen irL the decomposition of organic matter , excepting in certain cases when it might be presupposed .
It is not probable that there would be any loss due to the evolution of free nitrogen from the nitrogenouis constituents of the plants duiring growth .
In numerous experiments with graminaceous plants , under a wide range of conditions of growth , in no case was there any evidence of an assimilation of free nitrogen .
In experiments with leguminous plants the growth was less satisfactory , and the range of conditions was , therefore , more limited .
But the results with these plants , so far as they go , do not indicate any assimilation of free nitrogen .
It is desirable that the evidence of further experiments with such plants , under conditions of more healthy growth , should be obtained .
]Results obtained with some other plants , are in the same senlse as those with graminaceous and leguminous ones , in regard to the question of the assimilation of free nitrogen .
Seeing the evidence afforded of the non-assimilation of free nitrogen by plants , it is very desirable that the several actual or possible sources whence they may derive combined nitrogen should be more fully investigated , both qualitatively and quantitatively .
If it be established that plants do not assimilate free or uncombined nitrogeni , the source of the large amount of combined nitrogen known to exist on the surface of the globe , and in the atmosphere , still awaits a satisfactory explanation .

