An Account of some Books .
I. Lectiones 18 , Cantabrigiae in Schelis publicis habitae , in quibus OPTICORUM Phaenomen~ Genuinae rationes investigantur &amp; exponuntur , ab Isaaco Barrow , Coll. S. Trin .
Socio , Mathes .
Profess. Lucasiano , &amp; Soc. Regiae Sodali .
Londini , 1669 .
in 4~ .
Impensis Joh. Dunsmore ad Insigne Rosae &amp; Coronae , in Caemeterio D. Pauli .
A Brief summary of these Optic Lectures the Excellent Author doth himself deliver in an Epistle to a Friend , who desired such an one from him ; when he saith , that in them he endeavours to promote that part of Opticks , which he undertakes to treat upon , first by explaining and establishing its Principles ; then by deriving from them some useful Consectaries , serving to the explication of the Phenomenon : in the mean while attempting to correct some common errors , and to supply some principal defects therein .
Towards these purposes , he first examines the received Hypotheses of this Science , showing , how they should be understood , and how far admitted ; assigning also some Physical causes of them , ( in the performance whereof he declares himself not to confide much , but only requires the Hypotheses themselves , as not disagreeable to Reason , and very congruous to Experience , to be admitted .
) Having first settled the Hypotheses , he first draws from them some general Corollaries , partly before acknowledged by others , and partly observed by himself ; all confirmed by his own demonstrations .
Then proceeding to more Special matters , he prosecutes distinctly Catoptricks and Dioptricks , both Plain and Spherical .
And slightly passing over Plain Catoptricks ( as easy and commonly treated on , truly enough , ) he more largely insists upon Spherical Catoptricks , propounding such Theorems , whereby the Intersections , and the Limits of Reflected rays are declared , and together the Appearing places , or images of points radiating both from a great ( and , as it were , immense ) distance , and from a distance sensibly near , are determined , both in respect of an eye placed in the Axis of the radiation , and in respect to one placed without that Axis any where ; the which particulars he had not observed in any Book extant to be truly and diligently handled .
Then he from the foundation raises a Theory concerning both Plain and Spherical Dioptricks , assuming for a ground that rule concerning the Measure of Refractions , which Mr. DesCartes first discovered , and which now most of the best writers do admit , and which he judges agreeable to truth ( for that all deductions from it very well suit to experience ) which yet he knows not that any writers have applied to this purpose , so as to have raised any competent superstructure thereon .
And here orderly ( first in respect to Plain , then to Spherical Surfaces , ) considering points radiating from a distance so great that their rays may be supposed to fall parallel to one another upon the refracting surface , he propounds some Theorems , from which the chief Symptoms of refracted rays do result ; their Interjections and Limits are easily discernable ; the appearing places or images of such points are defined , both in regard to an eye situated in the Axis of the radiation , and in regard to one placed elsewhere .
Then he prosecutes in like manner the same things in respect to Points , radiating from a distance sensibly finite or near .
And that the Use of these things may be more ready , and serviceable to practise , he subjoyneth distinctly and particularly the determinations of the places in the Axis of the Images of points however radiating through each kind of lentes .
Having dispatched these matters , he touches generally concerning the making a judgment about the Appearances of Magnitudes ( as to their scituation and figure , ) which follow those sorts of reflection and refraction : Afterward more specially and copiously , he shows what kind of Images plain objects do yield from such reflections , and how they may be delineated .
Among these things there are interspersed some considerations about divers incident matters , as about the nature of Light , and the causes of different Colours about the Rainbow , or colours appearing in pellucid globes ; about some appearances in the vitreous Prisme ; concerning the linea refractaria , concerning the resolution of problems by Appropriate lines ; concerning the properties of the Conical sections in the reflection of lucid rays , &amp; c. II .
Lectiones 13 .
GEOMETRICAE , in quibus ( praesertim ) Generalia LINEARUM CURVARUM Symptomata declarantur ab eodem Isaaco Barrow , &amp;c. Impensis ejusdem Bibliopolae , in 4~ .
COncerning the Geometrical Lectures , arguing great depth in the Mathematical Learning , In the first of them , in order to what follows afterward concerning the Generation of Magnitudes , the Deserving Author treats about the Nature of Time , as it may be considered in Mathematical suppositions about such Generations .
In the second are declared the Mathematical Hypotheses about simple Motions ( progressive and Circular , ) which serve to the Production of Magnitudes , together with some general remarks , about the natures , dimensions , and properties ( consequent on such productions ) of Magnitudes .
There is also a touch about the Method of Indivisibles , explicating , how in some cases it is to be understood and applied .
The third treats about the Generation of Magnitudes by composition and concourse of motions .
In the fourth and fifth , from one generation propounded of Curve lines , ( supposing them produced by two motions , one uniform , the other accelerated ) divers Theorems are inferred , implying so many general properties of Curve lines .
The next five Lectures do contain many Theorems , and Problems about readily determining the Tangents of Curve Lines , immediately by them , without other computation ; particularly , there are divers single Theorems , whereby the Tangents of all Curves commonly known or considered in Geometry ( the Conical Sections , Conchoids , Cissoids , Spirals , Quadratrices , &amp;c. ) are determined in ways so general , as to comprehend also the like determination of Tangents in regard to innumerable other Curves , generated in a common manner with them .
Of those five Lectures the two first are Lemmatical , or preparatory to the Demonstration of the propositions delivered in the other three ; wherein yet there be some Theorems not unpleasant .
In the tenth is delivered a general Analytical method of determining Tangents , extending to all sorts of Curve lines , both Geometrical and Mechanical ( as Monsieur Des-Cartes distinguishes .
) The eleventh Lecture contains several general Theorems , about the Dimension of Magnitudes , or the comparison of them with one another .
To that there is subjoyned an Appendix concerning the dimension of Circular , and Hyperbolical segments , with divers Theorems and Rules serving to that purpose .
The twelfth Lecture contains also several Theorems concerning the Dimension of Magnitudes , but chiesly respecting the dimension of Surfaces produced by the Rotation of Curve lines , and the dimension of Curve lines themselves .
To this Lecture there are also three Additaments ; the first whereof contains some Theorems about the dimensions of Spaces constituted by the Tangents and Secants of a Circle .
The second shows , how the foregoing Theorems may be demonstrated by the Apagogick way , or by reduction ad absurdum ; together with a way of finding the dimension of the surfaces of Conical bodies .
In the third divers Problems and Theorems are added , of kin to those of the eleventh and twelfth Lecture .
The thirteenth Lecture propounds an Explication of the nature , and constitution of Equations , together with the variety of Roots , their Limits , &amp;c. by construction , and consideration of certain curve lines appropriate to each Equation : with some notes respecting each particularly , and all in general .
So much of these two Excellent Treatises : Since the Publication of which , their worthy Author hath been pleased to communicate to a Friend of his some Corollaries , belonging to the second Problem of his third Appendix to the twelfth Lecture ; which because we conceive they will be very acceptable to the Mathematical Reader , we shall here , by the Author 's good leave , subjoyn them in the same Language , he hath written them in , viz. Caeterum , ~ vice , animadverto , potuisse secundo Appendiculae tertiae Lection 's XII .
Problemati Corollaria quaedam adponinon injucunda ; qualium adscribam unum &amp; alterum .
Probl .
I. Detur linea quaepiam AMB ( cujus axis AD , basis DB , ) curva AN designetur talis , ut duct a libere rect a MNG ad BD parallela , quae ipsam AN secet in N ; sit curva AN aequalis ipsi GM .
V. Tab. I. n. X. Curva AN talis sit , ut si MT curvam AMB , &amp; NS curvam AN tongant , sit SG .
GN : : TG .
~ GMq-TGq ; ipsa AN proposito faciet satis .
Probl .
2 .
Isdem quoad caetera suppositis , &amp; constitutis , curva AN jam talis esse debeat , ut curva AN semper aequetur interceptae rectae NM .
Curva AN jam talis sit , ut sit SG .
GN : : 2 TG ~ GM .
GMqGq ; erit AN curva , quae desideratur V.fig .
eandem .
Probl.3.Datur curva quaepiam DXX , cujus axis DA ; reperiatur curva AMB proprietate talis , ut silibere ducatur recta V.Tab.~.n.XI .
GX ~ adipsam AD perpendicularis , ponaturque , SMT curvam AM tangere ; sit MS aequalis ipsi GX .
Liquet rationem TG ad TM ( hoc est , rationem GD ad MS , vel GX , ) dari ; adeoque rationem TG ad GM quoque dari .
Inservit hoc superficiebus designandis , quarum in promptu sit dimen .
sio .
Etenim ( ducta ME ad AD parallela ) superficies Solidi , ex Plani BME circa axem DB rotatu progeniti , adaequat Periph./ Rad. GDX ; ut habetur in IIa Lectionis XII .
In Lect. XI .
Appendice , numero 33 , de Cycloide profertur Theorema quoddam ; id quod ex hujusmodi generaliori Theoremate deduci potuisset .
Sit AMB curva quaelibet , cujus axis AD , basis DB ; sit item curva AN talis , ut si arbitrary ducatur PMN ad DBE V.Tab.1.n.XII .
Parallela , positoque , rectam TN curvam AN tangere , sit TN parallela subtensae AM ; completo rectangulo ADEG , erit spatium trilineum AEG aequale segmento ADB .
Huic suppar theorema tale est : Iisdem positis ; si tam segmentum ADB , quam spatium AEG circa axem convertantur ; erit productum e segmento ADB solidum producti ex AEG duplum .
V. fig.eand .
E Tangentium porro contemplatione suborta est methodus , per quam expeditissime plurima circa maximas quantitates Theoremata deducuntur ; quae certe , si tempestive se objecissent , digna censuissem quae Lectionibus insererentur : ex iis indigitabo nonnulla .
Sit curva quaepiam ALB , cujus axis AD , basis DB , &amp; huic parallelae V.Tab.1.n XIII .
LG , ~ ; item LT curvam tangat : Theor .
1 .
Sit m numerus quicunque potestates exponens ; si poratur DGm-1~ ~TG=GLm~ ; erit DGm~ + GLm~ maximum , seu majus quam D~m~ + ~~m~ .
Th. 2 .
Itidem sumpto numero m , si ponatur BLm-1~ ~TL=GLm~ ; erit GLm~ + BLm~ maximum , seu majus quam ~~m~ + B~m~ .
Th. 3 .
Sint numeri quilibet m , n ; si ponatur m ~TG=n ~ DG , erit DGm~ ~GLn~ maximum , seu majus quam D~m~ ~ ~~n~ .
Th. 4 .
Quod si ponatur m~ TL =n~ arc BL , erit GLn~ ~ BLm~ maximum , seu majus quam ~~n~ ~ B~m~ .
Th. 5 .
Si fuerit TG ~ GL=DGLB , erit DGLB ~ GL maximum , seu majus quam D~~ B~ ~~ .
Th. 6 .
Sin TG ~ GL =2 DGLB , erit GL ~~ DGLB maximum , seu majus quam ~~ ~~D ~~ B. Haud difficili negotio cum haec demonstrantur , tum ejusmodi complura deprehenduntur .
III .
A Continuation of the MEMOIRES of M. Bernier concerning the Empire of the G. Mogol .
English't out of French .
London , Printed for Moses Pitt in Little Brittain , 1671 .
in 80 .
THe first Volume of these Memoires , lately also printed in English for the same Bookseller , containing almost nothing but political affairs , was left un-mention 'd in these Books ; but this second taking notice of many particulars , relating to our design , we thought good to give it some place here ; and to let the Reader know , that , besides an accurate Description of the two famous Cities of Indostan , Dehli and Agra , and many things discovering the Genius of the Mogols and Indians , as also those , which belong to their militia , &amp;c. here is an account given , First , of the Extravagant opinions of the Gentiles of Indostan ; of their odd belief concerning Eclipses ; of the Books of Sciences received amongst them ; of their Doctrine of the Transmigration of Souls , and of the Creation , Preservation and Destruction of the World ; as also a Relation of the different Sects of Philosophers amongst them ; of their Method of Physic , very different from ours , and how successful ; of their ignorance in , and aversion from Anatomy ; of their pleasant Tenets in Astronomy , Geography , and Chronology ; of their opinion concerning Plants and Animals , importing that the Seeds of both of these kinds are not formed anew , but were contrived in the First production of the World ; as also , that they are actually the very entire Plant or Animal .
Secondly , here is to be found a good description of the kingdom of Kachemire , the reputed Paradise of the East-Indies ; its ancient State ; its present condition and excellencies for Soil , Vegetables , Waters , Cattel , Wild Dear ; the wit and Industry of the Inhabitants in making fine stuffs , good Varnish , &amp;c. the condition of its Mountains , one side of them being intolerably hot , and yielding Indian Plants , the other very tolerable , and afQ qq fording fording none but European Plants ; some remarkables about the Generation and Corruption of Trees there ; strange Cascata 's of water ; a rare fountain , flowing , and stopping regularly thrice a day , at a certain time of the year , and at other times flowing irregularly ; and a great Lake , having Ice in Summer , &amp;c. The Scituation of the kingdoms of Tibet , and the Commodities they offord .
A considerable account of Voyages made by Caravans from Kachemire through the mountains of the great Tibet into Tartary and Cataja ; and another , of the kingdom of Kacheguer , with directions how to travel thither from Kachemire , as also , how to pass from Kacheguer to Cataja .
To all which is added an Answer to some Questions touching the Mounsons and Rains in India ; the wonderful regularity of the Current of the Sea , and of the Winds there ; the fertility of Bengale ; and the Causes of the Inundation of the Nile and some other Rivers .
The whole is concluded with a Letter concerning the Doctrine of Atoms and the nature of the Mind of Man .
Historia &amp; Meteorologia INCENDII AETNAEI .
Anni 1669 .
Joh. Alph .
Borelli .
Regio Julio 1670 .
in 40 .
THough we have seen several Relations communicated to us of this late fire Fire of Mount AEtna , one of which hath been inserted in Numb. 51 .
of those Tracts ; yet will it be easily allow 'd by those , that shall have read and considered this Discourse , composed and published by the famous Philosopher and Mathematician J. Alph .
Borelli , that all others , that have hitherto written any thing about it , must needs give the preemince to him in respect of method , fulness , and philosophical reflexions ; to the performance of which he averreth to have been induced by his Eminence the Cardinal de Medicis and the Engl sh R. Society .
The Author then having given a short Topography of this Mountain , delivers first a succinct Relation both of the old and later Eruptions , as also of this last Fire of AEtna , and withal assigns the perpendicular Height of the same , showing it not to exceed three Italian miles , and here taking notice of Kepler 's assigning two such miles for the height of the Atmosphere , and thence concluding the top of AEtna to be considerably raised above that region of the common Air ; confirming the same by a known Experience , whereby those that are on the said top at a clear break of day , may plainly see the whole Island of Sicily , and all the Towns thereof , as 'twere elevated and hanging in the Air , near the Eye , just as , upon the account of Refraction , stones lying at the bottom of a pond appear nigh the surface of the water .
After this , in the History it self of this Eruption he describes particularly ; First , the beginning of it , which happened on the 8th of March 1669 , accompanied with Earth-quakes , and a Rent of the ground of 12 miles long , and 5 or 6 foot broad , as also with a terrible noise , roaring and cracking , vast globes of smoke first rising into the Air , and abundance of fiery melted stones being ejected soon after , which first ran like a flood of fire , and overwhelmed in a short space of time 13 towns , besides a part of the City of Catania it self , and afterwards were by the Air hardned into vast heaps of black and pumicelike stones , there called Sciarra ; wasting and spoiling abundance of Vines , Olives , and other plants .
The casting out of the Ashes and Sand continued for three whole months without ceasing , and filled all the neighbouring country , and covered all the Trees thereof for 15 miles about ; the smallest dust flying even over Sea into Calabria by a Southwind , and into the most Southern-parts of Sicily by a Northwind .
But then on the 25th of March , by a new Earth-quake the Top or Turret of Mount AEtna it self fell in , whereby was made an Opening or Cauldron of three miles in compass , and vast quantities of new matter cast out , and amongst it , abundance of fiery sand , falling down with a yet burning heat at 8 miles distance from the Cauldron ; whereupon the same by particular view and observation was found widened to the circumference of 6 miles .
Mean while all considering men there were amazed at the force throwing out to so great a height such huge stones , whereof one was measured to be 60 palms ( or about 40 foot ) long , which was fallen down a mile from the Cauldron with that violence , that it was struck 30 palms into the ground .
When this fiery Torrent assaulted Catania it self , and had already by its impetuosity forced from its place a whole hillock , planted with vines , belonging to the Jesuits , and carried them floating , together with the soil bearing them , till it so swelled as to cover and sink them all ; there appeared some gallant persons , who by their ingenuity and extraordinrry diligence , with fit Instruments , and raising vast strong walls , diverted the course of the fiery stream from that City , but chiefly by boaring through the stony heaps , and thereby making passage for that current another way , and turning part of it into the Sea , wherein it made a promontory of a mile 's compass before the Town .
It ceased by the 11th of July of the same year it began : And in May of 1670 .
our Author himself could handle without hurt the inner parts of the Cauldron and the former Torrent , and saw not so much as any smoke remaining in the highest part of that opening : Where yet he observes , that notwithwanding this entire ceasing in the said places , there were yet found in several parts of this newly ejected Sciarra hot and strongsmelling fumes arising on high , especially near the walls of the South-side of Catania , where wells had been digged for watering their Garden fields .
This being the Breviate of the History of this Eruption , which the Author describes with many other considerable circumstances ; we proceed to acquaint the Reader , that after this Description he expatiateth into divers important speculations and remarks thereupon .
And first he comments upon the Form , Consistence , Bulk , and Motion of the ejected matter ; taking particular notice of the great abundance of Sal Armoniac , that was found in all the holes and vents of the ground , and in the clefts of stones ; and observing , that in three months time the fiery flood ran out 12 miles in length , and , taking the medium , one mile and two thirds of a mile in breadth , and stopped at last by the ceasing of new matter , and the condensation of the liquid matter by the cooling Air .
Next , he compares together the measure of the freshly ejected matter with that of the Mountain , and finds it to equal near a fourteen thousand part of the whole Mount .
Thirdly , he evinceth , that Mount AEtna hath no such vast deep cavities , as some imagine , within its bowels near the surface of the Sea , but that there it is filled up with solid and stony matter , the huge weight of the superincumbent hill rather compressing it , than suffering any considerable hollownesses to continue therein .
Fourthly , Fourthly , having exploded the imperfect Meteorology , delivered by the Ancients of this Mountain , he discourses of Subterraneous Heat , and deduceth the Cause of it from some concrete oleaginous and fatty substances , as sulphur , bitumen , and oil , easily reducible into flame ; examining withal , both what is the origin of such sulphureous and bituminous matter , and how that comes to take flame : Where he digresses to show , how Gunpowder is set on fire , after he hath described the composition , and considered the stupendious force of the same by its percussion .
Fifthly , he declares , how and why the Fire in this Mountain was kindled ; which he conceives to have been most probably done by such a way , as Quick-lime is heated by the affusion of Water ; whereupon he shows , how Earth-quakes , Flames , and Conflagrations may have ensued .
Sixthly , he examins the origin and production of the fluid matter that was vitrified upon its being thrown out of this Mountain ; and is of opinion ( which he asserts by reason and experiment ) that it was not any ignited and melted Sulphur or Brimstone , or both together , nor any metallin bodies that were converted into those vast stony and black masses , which they call Sciarra 's , but rather Earth and Sand , together with some Alcalisat Salts , burned by the fervent heat of the AEtnean furnaces , and so turned into a vitreous fluor , and afterwards , upon their being cooled by the Air , into hard substances : Explaining withal , how the Asperity and Opacity of these stones are consistent with this sentiment .
Seventhly , he discourses plausibly of the Extent , Form and Scite of the AEtnean Furnace , and having , upon the examination of divers circumstances , found it but small and narrow , he labours to show , how , this notwithstanding , so vast a quantity of matter , as amounts , according to his estimate , to about 100 , 000 , 000 cubic paces , could be therein melted and thence cast up .
Eightly , he describes the burning down and falling in of the highest top of AEtna .
Ninthly , he inquires into the Generation of those Sands abovementioned , and withal gives an account , why in the New opening of AEtna there were heard such terrible and perpetual Thundering noises , as also , by what cause and force those Sands were thrown out ; showing withal , that they were really Sands , not Ashes , and solving Objections alleged against it .
Tenthly he concludes , that since , by his calculation , the upper part of Mount AEtna hath been just so much depressed , as the mass of sand and stones ejected amounts to , this mass was furnish't by the Mountain it self , and from the Earth and Sands thereof produced and vitrified : where he takes pains to make it appear , how all that prodigious quantity of matter , thrown out both now and in former ages , and seeming far to exceed the bulk of this whole Mountain , could be furnish't by AEtna it self , and yet the same not be quite levelled with the ground : The like of which he considers of Mount Vesuvius .
Eleventhly , he takes particular notice , that , whereas the Fires were soon extinguish't in the place of the very Pit of the Sulphur and Bitumen , yet they lasted long in other places , that were waterish and destitute of combustible fatness ; endeavouring to render a reason of this phenomenon .
Twelfthly , he inserts an Observation of great plenty of Sal Armoniac , cast out in this Incendium , which , he saith , was seen adhering both to the corners and asperities of the Sciarra , and to the sides of the rents made in those huge stones , which the ejected matter was at length hardned into .
And of this Salt he affirms , that there had been sublimed , ( for he makes it factitious ) so great store , that many thousands of pounds might be gathered ; adding , that even a whole year after the extinction of the Fire in the Mouth 's of AEtna , there were found remaining divers vents about Catania , exhaling store of smoke , which had the like Sal Armoniac sticking to the sides and edges of the Stones .
Lastly , he rejecteth the opinion of those , that will maintain the AEtnean Fires to have been perpetual and never extinguished , asserting the frequent cessation of them , and withal assigning the cause of that cessation , as well as that of their renovation .
Concerning which , and many other considerable remarks and reflections , too many to be here recited , we refer the Reader to the Book it self .

