III .
An Account of an Experiment , touching the Propagation of Sound , passing from the Sonorous Body into the common Air , in one Direction only .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R.S. SINCE by the former Experiment actual sound could not be transmitted thro~ a Space void of Air ; I was inclined to try whether that Sound , which should be propagated in a Receiver , having a Communication with the open Air at one small Apperture only , but otherwise entirely surrounded by a Vacuum ; Whether I say , that Sound would be increased , or continued Sounding longer , at each Stroke that should be given the Bell , than it would do , were not its Body encompassed by such a Medium .
In order thereto , the Bell was included as in the pre-mention 'd Experiment ; only , to the upper part of its Receiver , was screwed a Box with Collars of Leather ; and on the Top of the outward Receiver , was laid a Brass-Plate with a wet Leather between : In the middle of which Plate , was likewise screwed another Brass Box with Collars , as before .
These Receivers when placed on the Pump , had their Boxes standing directly one over the other .
Thro ' both of them in that Position , I past a hollow Brass Tube , which exactly fitted their Perforations : thus the inward Receiver had a Communication with the outward Air , and the outward Receiver thereby was secured from the Ingress of the Circumambient Medium .
Now when the Air contained between the Rel ii ceivers ceivers was pretty well exhausted , and the Bell strnck , the sound was sensibly very vigorous , and ( I think ) very nearly as great as before any Air was taken away at all ; yet it ones Finger was applied to the Apperture of the hollow Brass Tube , the Sound would be so much diminished , as but just to be distinguished .
By this we see .
that since the Sound in that state cannot be transmitted thro ' the Receiver that includes it , by means of the surrounding Vacuum , yet the Receiver is certainly struck with it ; but finding no conveyance that way , reverberates and makes its Passage where it find least resistance .
Nor did I observe , that altho ' the Sound had but one passage from its Receiver , and that but a small one , that it continued any longer from the Stroke , than if it had been made in the open Air .

