1 .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " Researches in Physical Geology : " Third Series .
By William Hopkins , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
In a paper formerly read to the Society , the author had investigated an analytical expression for the precession of the pole of the earth , on the hypothesis of the earth 's being composed of a hetero ?
geneous solid shell enclosing a heterogeneous fluid ; and showed that its amount , deduced from that hypothesis , could not agree with its actual observed amount , unless the ellipticity of the interior surface of the shell were less by a certain quantity than that of the exterior surface .
As the ellipticity of the inner surface ( assuming always that the earth was originally fluid ) depends on the thickness of the shell , the author , in the present paper , determines the least thickness which can be deemed compatible with the observed amount of pre ?
cession .
In his former communication , the author had contemplated only the case in which the transition from the solidity of the shell to the fluidity of the mass contained in it was immediate ; but in the case of the earth it must be gradual and continuous .
It is remarked , however , that if in the actual case we were to consider all that portion of the mass as solid which is not perfectly fluid , we should take the thickness of the shell too great ; and , on the other hand , if we were to consider the whole of that as perfectly fluid which is not perfectly solid , we should take the thickness of the shell too small .
There must , consequently , be some surface of equal fluidity , ( or , if we please , of equal solidity , ) such that if all above it were perfectly solid , and all beneath it perfectly fluid , the precession would be the same as in the case in which the transition from the solidity of the shell to the fluidity of the interior mass is continuous .
This surface is termed by the author the effective inner surface ; and the distance between this surface and the outer one , the effective thickness of the shell .
The degree of solidity or fluidity at any point in the interior of the earth must depend partly on the temperature at that point , and may also depend partly on the pressure there .
Both causes are here assumed to be effective : if the latter be not so , it will easily be seen that the conclusion arrived at will , dfortiori , be true .
If through any point in the interior of the earth , ( as , for instance , a point in the axis of rotation , ) we take a surface of equal temperature , and through the same point , a surface of equal pressure , it is evident that the surface of equal fluidity ( or solidity ) through that point must be intermediate to these two surfaces .
Its exact posi ?
tion cannot be determined without an experimental knowledge , which we do not possess , of the relative effects of temperature in opposing , and of pressure in promoting the process of solidification .
It is sufficient , however , for the purpose now in view , to know that it must necessarily lie between the surfaces of equal temperature and of equal pressure as its extreme limits ; and of these the author pro ?
ceeds to determine the position .
The forms of the isothermal surfaces within a spheroid have never been completely determined .
The determination given by the author is an extremely approximate one when the ellipticity is small , and the time during which the process of cooling has been going on is very great , as it is presumed to be in the case of the earth .
The author then enters into the analytical investigation of this problem ; and deduces the conclusion that we must descend to a depth greater than about one-fifth of the earth 's radius before we arrive at a surface of equal fluidity ( or solidity ) having an ellipticity of the requisite value : that is , the effective thickness of the crust must be at least equal to one-fourth or one-fifth of the earth 's ra ?
dius , in order that the precession may have its observed value : a conclusion , the author observes , which entirely removes the founda ?
tion of certain vague and somewhat fanciful speculations in geology , proceeding on the hypothesis of the thickness of the earth 's crust not being greater than twenty or thirty miles .
It has been imagined that in active volcanos , the volcanic vent may communicate directly with the central fluid nucleus , whence the ejected fluid mass has been supposed to be derived .
This notion , the author conceives , is rendered totally inadmissible , when it is proved that the thickness of the solid portion of the globe cannot be less than 800 or 1000 miles .
It is also remarked , that it follows from the great thickness of the crust , that the present interior temperature of the earth cannot be due to its original heat unless pressure be effective in promoting so ?
lidification , a fact not yet established by experiment : for , if the present temperature be due to that cause , it is certain that it must be sufficient at the depth of probably less than fifty miles to reduce the matter composing the crust of the globe to a state of fusion un ?
der the atmospheric pressure ; whereas it has been proved that the earth is solid to a very much greater depth ; which can be account36i &gt; ed for , therefore , only by supposing its solidity to be preserved by the enormous pressure to which , at considerable depths , the mass is subjected .
The author then offers an explanation of the phenomena of volcanos on the supposition that a portion of matter more fusible than the general mass of the globe exists in a state of fusion in sub ?
terranean reservoirs , forming so many subterranean lakes of determinate extent ; in some cases originally distinct ; in others , commu ?
nicating with adjoining lakes , by more or less obstructed channels ; a theory which will also account for all the obscure geological elevations , except perhaps the earliest , as being produced by a simul ?
taneous action of a fluid pressure on every portion of the lower part of a solid mass of definite extent .
The author considers this harmony in his general views with the results of analytical investigation as constituting for them a strong claim to the attention of geologists .
Another important conclusion which the author deduced from his researches is , that if the interior temperature of the earth be due to its primitive heat , pressure must be effective in promoting solidification of masses at high temperatures .

