]\gt ; Photographic gement of Small Sotid Objects .
by a single electron could be examined it might be found , when ayeraged over a enough period , to be the same as that actually found , but we have no evidence as to this .
If the electron were freely moying about it would probably go all the possible states of the electrons , and so would probably the usual distribution of energy on the average over a enough period .
The theory given above is not intended to apply to this case .
The curve shown does equally well for any temperature proyided the scale of is taken to be proportional to the temperature and the scale of ?
/ inversely proportional to the temperature .
The theory given above applies of course equally well to the radiation emitted by any body or to radiation any kind of energy distribution in its spectrum .
Best Conditions for Photographic gement of Solid Objects .
A. MALLOCK , F.li .
S. ( Received January 26 , \mdash ; Read Febrnary 18 , 1909 .
) Having recently had to photograph some small solids on an enlarged scale , I was led to enquire into the conditions as to the angular aperture and focal length of the lens which would give the best definition in the picture obtained .
If the actual distance apart of the closest points in the object which must be separated in the picture is Jreater than several yths of the employed , the problem may be solved by geometrical optics .
Let principal focal length of the lens .
distance between some part of the object and the lens .
the focal length conjugate to diameter of lens .
resolving , e.g. , the distance between the closest points which it can separate .
nitude of the smallest detail the objects which to appear separated in the picture .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Best Conditions for [ Jan. 26 , Let greatest distance of any part of the object in front of or behind the focal plane through at which details of the magnitude appear separated in the picture .
quantities corresponding to : and at conjugate focal plane through To secure the best photographic result , must be a minimum .
Any point at is represented in its image at by a disc surrounded by faint rings , and any point which is out of focus is represented at by a circular patch of light whose diameter is approximately the sum of the diameters of the disc and the base of the cone , whose length is and whose angle is .
The known relation between , and the wave-length of the light employed is constant . .
There is , as pointed out by Lord , a certain personal element in the constant , different observers different ideas as to what constitutes " " separation but in any case it is not far from unity , and therefore we may , for the present purpose , put , corresponding to a disc of diameter at .
Hence the diameter of the patch of light on the focal plane at , which represents a point , out of focus is as a variable , this expression is a minimum when or ; and this minimum diameter is therefore and corresponds to gnitude 2 at the object .
In order that two such patches should not overlap in the photograph , their centres must not be within one diameter of one another , and hence cannot be less than , thus showing that the lens should have twice the power required to separate the detail which is to appear in the worst defined part of the picture .
Putting , therefore , and ( from the ordinary formulae for lenses ) , we have ' whence , and this must be equated to or From this it appears that and since .
If .
These are the relations between and which make a minimum .
If is given , a lens should be used whose angular aperture \mdash ; a condition which can be satisfied either by varying the distance of the object from the lens or by the use of stop .
Thus the greatest ' depth of 1909 .
] Enlargement of Smalt Solid Objects .
focus\ldquo ; which can possibly be attained if details of the nitude are to show in the picture is or ?
For example , suppose it is required to photograph a rough broken surface covered with markings as close as 10,000 per inch .
If these markings are to be distinct in every part of the enlargement , what is the greatest permissible depth of the roughnesses , and what lens should be used ?
Since is about inch and , and inch .
If the focal plane is adjusted to be at the half depth of the roughnesses , the total depth over which separation of 1/ 10000 inch can be secured is inch .
The choice of a lens will be settled merely by considel.ations of convenience , having regard to the magnitication required and the total area to photographed ; but whatever the actual size of the lens , the ratio of aperture to focus should be 2/ 5 .
If definition sufficient to separate thousandths of an inch were all that was wanted , we should have .
2500 ( inch about ) and should be 1/ 25 .
Although this note written with reference to the enlargement of small objects , the formulae apply to the ordinary photographs of objects at a distance .
Suppose a number of chess boards with 1 inch squares are set up at different distances from the camera , over what can the squares be distinguished in the picture ?
Here inch , so that / , therefore , inches , or 1000 feet nearly .
The ular aperture required ( using the phrase in the sense , , the angle subtended by the aperture at ths plate ) will be found to be Microscopic objectives are named from the distance of the lens to the object .
The focal lengths of photographic lenses , on the other hand , are stated as the distance of the lens from the image .

