20 Mr. J. N. Langley .
On Histology and [ Mar. 24 , indicate ) may differ in different animals according to their habits and modes of activity .
The results we have obtained are capable of numerous physiological and pathological applications , but for the present we content ourselves with the above brief statement of some of the more obvious conclusions which they seem to justify .
III .
" On the Histology and Physiology of the Pepsin-forming Glands .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. MlCHAEL Foster , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of observations upon Rana temporaria , Bufo vulgaris , Triton tmniatus , Triton and Coluber natrix .
In these animals the changes which take place in the pepsin-forming glands under various conditions , viz. , digestion of varying amounts of food , attempted digestion of indigestible substances , as sponge , and fasting , were noted .
Omitting the pyloric glands , which in these animals form only a minimal amount of pepsin , all the pepsin-forming glands present certain phenomena in common .
In all , the living gland-cells contain granules , which diminish during digestion .
In each the amount of pepsin* contained by a definite weight of the gland-bearing mucous membrane is proportionate to the amount of granules contained by the gland-cells .
An increase or diminution of the cell-granules , in whatever way it is brought about , is accompanied by a corresponding increase or diminution in the pepsin-content of the cells .
Further , in different parts of the pepsin-forming region the amount of pepsin present is proportional to the granularity of the cells .
Hence we may conclude that the granules consist wholly , or in part , of pepsin or of some substance capable of giving rise to pepsin .
In some of these animals certainly , and probably in all , the fresh glands contain only a minimal quantity of pepsin , but , on the other hand , a large quantity of a substance from which pepsin can be obtained , i.e. , zymogen .
It follows , then , that in the previously mentioned estimation of pepsin , the pepsin found resulted from the splitting up of zymogen , and consequently that the amount of zymogen contained by the gland-cells is proportional to their granularity .
# The dried mucous membrane was extracted with one hundred times its weight of hydrochloric acid , 0'2 per cent. Griitzner 's colorimetric method was used in making the estimations .
1881 .
] Physiology of the Pepsin-forming Glands .
Hence we may conclude that the granules consist not of pepsin , but wholly or in part of zymogen .
The processes in these pepsin-forming glands , then , closely resemble the processes which go on in the pancreatic gland .
The cell-protoplasm stores up zymogen .
At the moment of secretion the zymogen is converted into ferment , and probably other organic substances found in the fluid secreted .
In all the glands , with the exception perhaps of those of the snake , the cells , which diminish somewhat in size as well as in granularity in the first period of digestion , recover more or less completely their normal size and their normal granularity during the latter period of digestion .
In other words , at a time when the using up of granules is still proceeding , fresh granules are formed ; and , since the granules result from protoplasmic metabolism , we may conclude , bearing in mind the increase in size of the cells , that the protoplasm is also ' growing .
Thus in any gland-cell , during at any rate the greater part of digestion , three processes are going on at the same time , viz. , the growth of protoplasm , the formation of zymogen by the protoplasm , the conversion of zymogen into secretory products .
There are certain reasons which make it in a high degree probable that these three processes go on during the whole of the digestive period .
Under certain conditions , there is a preliminary increase in the size of the cells and the granules before the normal decrease sets in .
When the decrease in the size of the cells does set in , it is not sufficient to allow us to suppose that there is no growth of protoplasm ; the casting out of the granules which have disappeared would , if there were no protoplasmic growth , leave the cell much smaller .
The analogy of the change in the mucous salivary glands during secretion affords an instance in which the cell-protoplasm increases steadily during activity .
Lastly , as regards the granules , it is clear that there might be a fairly rapid formation of granules without any obvious change in the cell , provided the using up of granules went on at an equal rate .
On the whole , then , it may be , I think , fairly concluded , that , , from the beginning to the end of the digestive period , the three processes mentioned go on .
If this be the case , the different appearances of any cell as regards size and granularity depend upon the relative rates with which the three processes proceed at different times .
When the amount of change which takes place in the gland-cells of different animals during digestion is compared , very wide differences-are found .
The most striking comparison is perhaps afforded by the glands in Triton tceniatus and those in Triton cristatus .
At the fourth hour of digestion , when the cells have apparently secreted approximately proportional amounts of pepsin , i.e. , when they have used up an approximately proportional amount of granules , the observable 22 OntheJJistdlogy , fyc.,.of Pepsiurfor [ Mar. 24 , diminution .
6f granules , .in the .
gland-cells of Triton is enormously less than the observable diminution of'granules in the .
gland-cells of Triton This- , cm , .1 , ''think , only.result.from , the formation of granules proceeding more hand-in-handawitiwthe using np in the former .*than in the..latter ... This and other similar facts lead us to conclude.that the differences in the*amount of histological change which takes place in the pepsin-forming , glands of different animals , is the consequence of .the three ehanjges above-mentioned proceeding in each animal at different relative rates .
It is well known that in various glands , typically the pancreas , the granules are found during secretion aggregated around the lumina , the router portions of the cells being nan-granular and homogeneous .
The cause of this appearance is , no doubt , in part due to a. more rapid growth of protoplasm in the outer than the inner portions of the cells ; in part , glso , I think it -is^due .to the Igranules being , moved , by the protoplasm , towards the lumen .
It is necessary , I think , to assume tsu^h a transference , of granules , , since , neither the unequal growth of protoplasm , nor , , what might also be imagined , an unequal using n\#187 ; p of granules in Aha two .
regions of the cells , is sufficient to account-for the changes which take .place .
Since the granules before they disappear become smaller , they will be smaller in that part of the .cell in .
which they are : being used up most actively .
But , as a matter of ; fact , the grannies are equally affected throughout the cell , so that the outer clear zone cannot arise from a more rapid using up of granules in that part of the cell .
As to the more rapid growth of protoplasm , it fails to explain how the granules , which in the .first stage of .
digestion become few and scattered in the outer half of the cell , can in the latter stages of digestion be arranged in a dense mass around the lumen ; it leads , moreover , to the very improbable hypothesis that when the granules have entirely disappeared from the cells , the cell protoplasm.has completely regrown from the periphery .
The pepsin-forming glands which , we are considering in this paper , offer some other interesting forms of cell activity .
In some no distinction of zones occurs , the grannies become smaller and less frequent in all parts of the cells , without any alteration in their relative distribution ; in others there is formed a small non-granular zone in the inner part of the cells .
This inner non-granular zone , though obvious enough in certain states of Ahe glands , does not reach the proportions which the outer non-granular zone attains in the pancreas and other similarly constructed glands . .
Further , we find , in these glands , all stages of transition between the three types of cell-change iu activity which , have just been mentioned .
Thus , the oesophageal glands of the frog form a large outer 1881 .
] On the Coefficients of Expansion , $e .
28 non-granular zone , the oxyntic glands* of Triton form normally a less developed , though distinct , outer zone , this-being less in the posterior than in the anterior oxyntic glands .
In^the glands of Triton cristatus , the outer zone is reduced to a minimum , or is represented only by a greater thinning out of granules in the peripheral part of the cells ; the scanty oesophageal ' glands of the toad show a bare trace of a similar difference in the two'parts of the cell .
In the greater number of the oxyntic glands of the snake , and in the anterior oxyntic glands of the stomach of the toad , neither an outer nor an inner zone'is formed , but in passing backwards to the posterior oxyntic glands in both of these animals , an non-granular zone gradually becomes obvious .
\#166 ; The inner zone reaches its greatest development , so far as I have observed , in the posterior oxyntic glands of the frog .
In this brief account the general conclusions which can , I think , be drawn from the study of the pepsin-forming glands are only given , I have made no reference to the important papers of Heidenhain , Griitzner , Swie^cki , Nussbaum , Partsch , and others on the same subject .
I have discussed their work in the fuller paper , which contains the details on which the conclusions here given are based .
March 31 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Coefficients of Expansion of the Di-iodide of Lead , Pbl2 , and of an Alloy of Iodide of Lead with Iodide of Silver , PbI2.AgI .
" By G. F. Rodwell , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. , Science Master in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Professor A. W. Williamson , For .
Sec. R.S. Received March 10 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The author having referred to his pi-evious papers on the coefficients of the iodides of silver and mercury , and of certain chloro* I propose to use the term " oxyntic " ( o^weiv , to make sour , to acidulate ) for those glands which are called by different observers by the inappropriate names " fundus , " " peptic , " or " rennet " glands .

