56 Lord .Rayleigh .
On the Amount of Argon and 27 .
A mixture of soda-lime and .
sulphur consisting of polysulphides causes no change of volume in a current of helium passed over it at a bright red heat .
28 .
Induction sparks in an ozone apparatus passed through a mixture of helium with benzene vapour in presence of liquid benzene for many hours , gave no change of volume .
The benzene was , of course , altered , but the sum of the pressures of the helium and the benzene-vapour remained as at first .
Had helium been removed , contraction would have occurred .
This ends the catalogue of negative experiments .
Any compound of helium capable of existence will probably be endothermic , and the two methods of producing endothermic compounds , where no simultaneous exothermic reaction is possible , are exposure to a high temperature , at which endothermic compounds show greater stability , and the influence of the silent electric discharge .
These methods have been tried , so far in vain .
There is , therefore , every reason to believe that the elements , helium and argon , are non-valent , that is , are incapable of forming compounds .
" On the Amount of Argon and Helium contained in the Gas from the Bath Springs."* By Lord Rayleigh , See .
R.S. Received April 30 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1896 .
The .
presence of helium in the residue after removal of nitrogen from this gas was proved in a former paper , f but there was some doubt as to the relative proportions of argon and helium .
A fresh sample , kindly collected by Dr. Richardson , has therefore been examined .
Of this 2500 c.c. , submitted to electric sparks in presence of oxygen , gave a final residue of 37 c.c. , after removal of all gases known until recently .
The spectrum of the residue , observed at atmospheric pressure , showed argon , and the D3 line of helium very plainly .
The easy visibility of D3 suggested the presence of helium in some such proportion as 10 per cent. , and this conjecture has been confirmed by a determination of the refractivity of the mixture .
It may be remembered that while the refractivity of argon approaches closely that of air , the relative number being 0'961 , the refractivity of helium ( as supplied to me by Professor Ramsay ) is very low , being only O'146 on the same scale .
If we assume that any sample * I am reminded by Mr. Whitaker that helium is appropriately associated with the Bath waters , which , according to some antiquaries , were called by the Romans Aquce Solis .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Froc .
, ' vol. 59 , p. 206 , 1896 .
Magnetised Iron , fc .
, cooled to Temperature of liquid Air .
57 of gas is a mixture of these two , its refractivity will determine the proportions in which the components are present .
The observations were made by an apparatus similar in character to that already described , but designed to work with smaller quantities of gas .
The space to be filled is only about 12 c.c. , and if the gas be at atmospheric pressure its refractivity may be fixed to about 1/ 1000 part .
By working at pressures below atmosphere very fair results could be arrived at with quantities of gas ordinarily reckoned at only 3 or 4 c.c. The refractivity found for the Bath residue after desiccation was O'896 referred to air , so that the proportional amount of helium is 8 per cent. " Referred to the original volume , the proportion of helium is T2 parts per thousand .
" On the Changes produced in Magnetised Iron and Steels by'cooling to the Temperature of Liquid Air .
" By JAMES Dewar , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , and J. A. Fleming , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Electrical Engineering in University College , London .
Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1896 .
The action of the low temperature produced by liquid air upon the magnetic moment of steel magnets was studied by one of us in a few cases in a preliminary research made some time ago.* We have recently returned to the subject and made further investigations on the influence of the low temperatures thus obtained on magnetised iron and steels of very various compositions , with the object of determining the nature of the changes which take place in the magnetic moment of small magnets constructed of these metals , when cooled gradually or suddenly down to the lowest temperature obtainable by the use of boiling liquid air .
The arrangements adopted in this investigation were as follows :\#151 ; A reflecting magnetometer consisting of three small magnetised needles of watch-spring steel , cemented to a concave glass mirror , suspended by a single cocoon fibre , was placed in a tube so as to be free from disturbance by draughts of air .
The small magnets were 8 to 10 mm. in length .
The image of a portion of the filament of an incandescent lamp was reflected by the mirror on to a divided scale placed at a distance of 70 cm .
from the mirror .
The edge of the very sharp image of the filament , focussed upon the scale , * Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution , " On the Scientific Uses .of Liquid Air , " by Janies Denar , LL. D. , F.R.S. , January 19 , 1894 .

