Experiments to prove that Fluids pass directly from the Stomach to the Circulation of the Blood , and from thence into the Cells of the Spleen , the Gall Bladder , and Urinary Bladder , without going through the Thoracic Duct .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 31 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 163 .
] Mr. Home having formerly found that fluids pass from the stomach into the circulation of the blood without going through the thoracic duct , had maintained the spleen to be the channel by which they are .395 conveyed ; but brings forward the present set of experiments to correct that opinion , which he finds to be erroneous .
Mr. Brodie having tied the thoracic duct in some experiments of his own , it occurred to Mr. Home , that under these circumstances the existence or non-existence of any other channel from the stomach into the circulation might be fully established .
A rabbit and a dog were each subjected to this experiment .
After tying the thoracic duct , a quantity of infusion of rhubarb was injected into the stomach ; and , in an hour after , the urine was examined , and found to be tinged with the rhubarb .
In the dog , the bile was also examined , and found to be tinged with the rhubarb .
The existence of a channel distinct from the thoracic duct being thus established , the experiment was repeated on a dog whose spleen had been removed four days previously ; but still the urine became tinged with the rhubarb , so that the channel is not through the spleen .
As it was possible ( though not very probable ) that the rhubarb might , by some anastomosis , obtain a passage through the lymphatic vessel , which enters at the angle between the jugular and subclavian veins on the right side , the same experiment was repeated upon another dog , in whom this vessel was also secured by ligature , as well as the thoracic duct , previously to the injection of the rhubarb ; but in this experiment also the rhubarb found its way to the bladder , as before .
When the spleen of this dog was infused in water , the infusion was slightly tinged with the rhubarb ; but when the liver was infused , the proportion of blood present was so great as not to admit of determining whether rhubarb was present or not .
In some of these experiments the thoracic duct was wounded or ruptured , so that chyle was found to have flowed from it , and was collected for experiment : in other experiments the duct itself , the mesenteric glands , and lacteals , were found distended , and the fluid was pressed from them for the same purpose ; but it was in no instance found to be tinged with the rhubarb .
These experiments , says Mr. Home , completely establish the fact , that the rhubarb did not pass through the thoracic duct , and also completely overturn the opinion of the spleen being the medium by which it was conveyed .
He conceives , therefore , that the rhubarb found in the spleen must previously have entered the circulation , and thence have been deposited , by secretion , in the cells of the spleen .
The objection to this opinion is , that there is no excretory duct from the spleen ; but Mr. Home observes , that the lymphatic vessels probably perform the office of excretory ducts , as they are both larger and more numerous than in any other organ of the body .
In the ass , he remarks , they unite and form one common trunk ; and as they terminate in the thoracic duct , it would be a deviation from the general plan of the animal economy if their structure differed from that of other lymphatic vessels .

