]\gt ; [ 187 ] VI .
Argon , a New Constituent of the Atmosphere .
By Lord RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. , Professor WILLIAM RAMSAY , F.R. Received and Read nuary 3 , t895 .
" " Modern discoveries have not been made by large collections of facts , with subsequent discussion , ation , and resulting deduction of a truth thus rendered perceptible .
A few facts have suggested an hypothesis , which means a supposition , proper to explain tbem .
The necessary resuIts of this supposition are worked out , and then , and not till then , other facts are examined to see if their uIterior results are found in Nature .
MORGAN , " " A Budget of Paradoxes ed. 1872 , p. 55 .
1 .
Density of Nitrogen from Various Sources .
IN a former paper* it has been shown that nitrogen extracted from chemical compounds is about one-half per cent. lighter than " " atmospheric nitrogen The mean numbers for the weights of gas contained in the globe used were as follows : grams .
From nitric oxide . . . . .
From nitrous oxide . . .
From ammonium nitrite . . . .
while for " " atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen there was found\mdash ; By hot copper , 1892 . . .
) By hot iron , 1893 . . . .
By set.rous hydrate , 1894 At the suggestion of Professor THORPE , experiments were subsequently tried nitrogen liberated from urea by the action of sodium hypobromite .
The carbon and hydrogen of the urea are supposed to be oxidized by the reaction to and the former of which would be retained by the large excess of alkali employed .
It was accordingly hoped that the gas would require no furthet purification than If it proved to be light , it would at any rate be free from the suspicion of containing hydrogen .
RAYLEIGH , " " On an Anomaly encountered in Determinations of the Density of Nitrogen Gas ' Proo .
Roy .
Soc vol. 55 , p. 840 , 1894 .
NDCCCXCV.\mdash ; A. 2 27.6.9 A NEW CONSI'ITUENT OF ATMOSPHERE .
Although the results relating to urea nitrogen are interesting for comparison with that obtained from other nitrogen compounds , the original object was not attai1ted on account of the necessity of retaining the treatment with hot metals .
We have found , however , that nitrogen from ammonium nitrite may be prepared without the employment of hot tubes , whose weight agrees with that above quoted .
It is that the gas smells slightly of ammonia , easily removable by sulphuric acid , and apparently also of oxides of nitrogen .
The solution of potassium nitrite and ammonium chloride was heated in a water-bath , of which the temperature rose to the boiling-point only towards the close of operations .
In the earlier stages the temperature required careful wabching in order to prevent the decomposition taking place too rapidly .
The gas was washed with sulphuric acid , and after passing a Nessler test , was finally treated with potash and phosphoric anhydride in the usual way .
The following resuIts have been obtained:\mdash ; July 4 . . . . .
2.2983 . . . .
It will be seen bhat in spite of the slight nitrous smell there is no appreciable difference in the densities of gas prepared from ammonium nitrite with and without the treatment by hot metals .
The result is interesting , as showing that the agreement of numbers obtained for chemical nitrogen does not depend upon the use of a red heat in the process of purification .
The five results obtained in more or less distinct ways for chemical nitrogen stand thus : From nitric oxide . . . .
From nitrous oxide . . . . .
From ammonium nitrite purified at a red heat . . . .
From urea . . . . .
From ammonium nitrite purified in the cold . . . . .
Mean . . . . . . .
These numbers , as well as those above quoted for " " atmospher.ic nitrogen are subject to a correction additive ) for the shrinkage of the globe when exhausted .
If they are then multiplied in the ratio of , they will express the weights of the gas in grams .
per litre .
Thus , as regards the mean numbers , we find as the weight per litre under standard conditions of chemical nitrogen , that of atmospheric nitrogen being In the Abstract of this paper ( ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 57 , p. 265 ) the correction of 0006 was erroneously treated as a deduction.\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] RAYLEIGH , ' ' On the Densities of the Principal Gases ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 5.3 , p. 134 , 1893 .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
The mean result of the weight of 1 litre of ' ' chemical\ldquo ; nitrogen has been found to equal .
It is therefore seen that " " chemical\ldquo ; nitrogen , derived from " " atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen , without any exposure to red-hot copper , possesses the usual density .
Experiments were also made , which had for their object to prove that the ammonia , produced from the magnesium nitride , is identical with ordinary ammonia , and contains no other compound of a basic character .
For this purpose , the ammonia was converted into ammonium chloride , and the percentage of chlorine detelmined by titration with a solution of silver nitrate which had been standardized by titrating a specimen of pure sublimed ammonium chloride .
The silver solution was of such a strength that 1 cubic centim. precipitated the chlorine from gram .
of ammonium cbdoride .
1 .
Ammonium chloride from orange-coloured sample of magnesium nitride .
gram .
required cub. centims. of silver nitrate per cent. of chlorine .
2 .
Ammonium chloride from blackish magnesium nitride .
gram .
required cub. centims. of silver nitrate per cent. of chlorine .
3 .
Ammonium chloride from nitride containing a large amount of ttacked magnesium .
gram .
required cub. centims. of silver nitrate per cent. of chlorine .
Taking for the atomic weights of hydrogen , , of nitrogen , and of chlorine , Cl , the theorebical amount of chlorine in ammonium chloride is per cent. From these results\mdash ; that nitrogen prepared from magnesium nitride obtained by passing " " atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen over red-hot magnesium has the density of chemical\ldquo ; nitrogen , and that ammonium chloride prepared from magnesium nitride contains practically the same percentage of chlorine as pure ammonium chloride\mdash ; it may be concluded that red-hot magnesium withdraws from " " atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen no substance other than nitrogen capable of forming a basic compound with hydrogen .
In a subsequent part of this paper , attention will again be called to this statement .
( See addendum p. 240 .
) 2 .
Reasons for Suspecting hitherto Undiscovered Constituent in Ai , : When the discrepancy of weights was first encountered , attempts were naturally made to explain it by contamination with known impurities .
Of these the most likely appeared to be hydrogen , present in the lighter gas , in spite of the passage over red-hot cupric oxide .
But , inasmuch as the intentional introduction of hydrogen into the heavier gas , afterwards treated in the same way with cupric oxide , had no effect upon its weight , this explanation had to be abandoned ; and , finally , it became A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
obtained sufficient of themselves to prove that the atmosphere contains a previously unknown gas .
But although the method of diffusion was capable of deciding the main , or at any rate the first question , it held out no prospect of isolating the new constituent of the atmosphere , and we therefore turned our attention in the first instance to the consideration of methods more strictly chemical .
And here the question forced itself upon us as to what really was the evidence in favour of the prevalent doctrine that the inert residue from air after withdrawal of oxygen , water , and carbonic anhydride , is all of one kind .
The identification of ' ' phlogisticated air\ldquo ; with the constituent of nitric acid is due to CAVENDISH , whose method consisted in operating with electric sparks upon a short column of gas confined with potash over mercury at the upper end of an inverted -tube .
* This tube ( M ) was only about inch in diameter , and the column of gas was usually about 1 inch in length .
After describing some preliminary trials , CAVENDISH proceeds:\mdash ; " " I introduced into the tube alittle soap-lees ( potash ) , and then let up some dephlogisticated and common air , mixed in the above mentioned proportions which rising to the top of the tube , divided the soap-lees into its two legs .
As fast as the air was diminished by the electric spark , I continued adding more of the same kind , till no further diminution took pJace : after which a little pure dephlogisticated air , and after that a little common air , were added , in order to see whether the cessation of diminution was not owing to some imperfection in the proportion of the two kinds of air to each other ; but without effect .
The soap-lees being then poured out of the tube , and separated from the quicksilver , seemed to be perfectly neutralised , and they did not at all discolour paper tinged with the juice of blue flowers .
Being evaporated to dryness , they left a small quantity of salt , which was evidently nitre , as appeared by the manner in which paper , impregnated with a solution of it , burned Attempts to repeat CAVENDISH'S experiment in CAVENDISH'S manner have only increased the admiration with which we regard this wonderful investigation .
Working on almost microscopical quantities of material , and by operations extending over days and weeks , he thus established one of the most important facts in chemistry .
And what is still more to the purpose , he raises as distinctly as we * ' ' Experiments om Air ' Phil. Trans ] .
, p. 372 , 1785 .
The explanation of combustion in CAYIiNDISH'S day was still vague .
It was generally imagined that substances capable of burning contained an unknown principle , which the name 'phlogiston ' was , and which escaped during combustion .
Thus , metals and hydrogen and other gases were said to be ' phlogisticated ' if they were capabIe of burning in air .
Oxygen being non-inflammable was named ' dephlogisticated air , ' and nitrogen , because it was incapable of supporting combustion or life was named by PRIESTLET ' phlogisticated air , ' although up till CAYENDISH'S time it had not been made to unite with oxygen .
The term used for oxygen by CAVENDISH is 'dephlogisticated air , ' and for nitrogen , ' phlogisticated air.'\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
the air during the half hour which he continued working at a time varied in general from 40 to 120 measures , but was usually greatest when there was most air in the tube , provided the quantity was not so great as to prevent the spark from passing readily The " " measure\ldquo ; spoken of represents the volume of one grain of quicksilver , or 0048 cub. centim. , so that an absorption of one cub. centim. of mixed gas per hour was about the most favourable rate .
Of the mixed gas about two-fifths would be nitrogen .
3 .
Methods of Free Nitrogen to Combine .
The concord between the determinations of density of nitrogen obtained from sources other than the atmosphere , having made it at least probable that some heavier exists in the atmosphere , hitherto undetected , it became necessary to submit atmospheric nitrogen to examination , with a view of isolating , if the unknown and overlooked constituent , or it might be constituents .
Nitrogen , however , is an element which does not easily enter into direct combination with other elements ; but with certain elements , and under certain , combination ma .
be induced .
The elements which have been directly united to nitrogen are boron , ( b ) ( c ) titanium , ( d ) lithium , ( e ) strontium and barium , ( f ) magnesium , ( g ) aluminium , ( h ) mercury , ( i ) manganese , ( j ) hydrogen , and ( k ) oxygen , the last two by help of an electrical discharge .
Nitride of boron was prepared by WoHLER and DEVILLE* by heating amorphous boron to a white heat in a current of nitrogen .
Experiments were made to test whether the reaction would take place in a tube of difficultly fusible glass ; but it was found that the combination took place at a bright red heat to only a small extent , and that the boron , which had been prepared by heating powdered boron oxide with magnesium dust , was only superficially attacked .
Boron is , therefore , nob a convenient absorbent for nitrogen .
[ M. MoISSAh informs us that the reputation it possesses is due to the fact that early experiments were made with boron which had been obtained by means of sodium , and which probably contained a boride of that metal .
\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] Nitride of also requires for its formation a white heat , and complete union is difficuIt to bring about .
Moreover , it is not easy to obtain large quantities of silicon .
This method was therefore not attempted .
Nitride of titaniurn is said to have been formed by DEVILLE and CARON , heating titanium to whiteness in a current of nitrogen .
This process was not tried by us .
As titanium has an unusual tendency to unite with nitrogen , it 1night , perhaps , be worth while to set the element free in presence of atmospheric nitrogen , with a view to the absorption of the nitrogen .
This has , in effect , been ] ready done * ' Annals de Chimie , ' 3 ) , 62 , p. 82 .
SCHUTZENBERGER , Comptes Rendus , ' 89 , 644 .
'Annalen der Chemie .
Pharmacie , ' 101 , by WoHLER and DEVILLE ; they passed a mixture of the vapour of titanium chloride and nitrogen over red-hot aluminium , and obtained a large yield of nitride .
It possible that a mixture of the precipitated oxide of titanlum with magnesium dust be an effective absorbing agent at a comparatively low temperature .
[ Since writing the above we have been informed by M. MOISSAN that titanium , heated to , burns brilliantly in a current of nitrogen .
It might therefore be used with advantage to remove nitrogen from air , inasmuch as we have found that it does not combine with argon.\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] , Lithium at a dull red heat absorbs nitrogen , but the difficulty of obtaining the metal in quantity precludes its application .
On the other hand , strontium and barium , prepared by electrolysing solutions of their chlorides in contact with mercury , and subsequently removing the mercury by distillation , are said by MAQUENNE to absorb nitrogen with readiness .
Although we have not tried these metals for removing nitrogen , still our experience with their amalgams has led us to doubt their efficacy , for it is extremely difficult to free them from mercury by distillabion , and the product is a fused ingot , exposing very little surface to the action of the gas .
The process might , however , be worth a trial .
Barium is the efficient absorbent for nitrogen when a mixture of barium carbonate and carbon is ignited in a current of nitrogen , yielding cyanide .
Experiments have shown , however , that the formation of cyanides takes place much more readily and abundantly at a high temperature , a temperature not easily reached with laboratory appliances .
Should the process ever come to be worked on a large scale , the rejected by the barium will undoubtedly prove a most convenient source of argon .
( f ) Nitride of gnesium was prepared by DEVILLE and CARON loc. during the distillation of impure magnesium .
It has been more carefully investigated by BRIEGLEB and GEUTHER , S who obtained it by igniting metallic magnesium in a current of nitrogen .
It forms an friable substance , very porous , and it is easily produced at a bright red heat .
When magnesium , preferably in the form of thin turnings , is heated in a combustion tube in a current of nitrogen , the tube is attacked superficially , a coating ofmagnesium silicide being formed .
As the temperature rises to bright redness , the magnesium begins to glow brightly , and combustion takes place , beginning at that end of the tube through which the gas is introduced .
The combustion proceeds regularly , the glow extending down the t , ube , until all the metal has united with nitrogen .
The heat developed by the combination is considerable , and the glass softens ; but by careful attention and regulation of the rate of the current , the tube lasts out an operation .
A piece of combustion of the usual length for organic analysis packed tightly with magnesiu .
turnings , and containing * ' Annalen Chemie .
Pharmacie , ' 78 , 34 .
OUVRARD , 'Comptes Rendus , ' 114 , 120 .
OUVRARD , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 114 , 25 , and 220 .
S 'Annalen der Chemie .
Pharmacie , ' 123 , 228 .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
about 30 grams , absorbs between seven and eight litres of nitrogen .
It is essential that oxygen be excluded from the tube , otherwise a fusible substance is produced , possibly nitrate , which blocks the tube .
With the precaution of excluding oxygen , the nitride is loose and porous , and can easily be removed from the tube with a rod : but it is not possible to use a tube twice , for the glass is generally softened and deformed .
Nitride of luminium has been investigated by MALLET .
* He obtained it in crystals by heating the metal to whiteness in a carbon crucible .
But aluminium shows no tendency to unite with nitrogen at a red heat , and cannot be used as an absorbent .
the gas .
GERRESHEIM states that he has induced combination between nitrogen and mercury ; but the affinity between these elements is of the slightest , for the compound is explosive .
In addition to these , metallic manganese in a finely divided state has been shown to absorb nitrogen at a not very elevated temperature , forming a nitride of the formula [ A mixture of nitrogen with hydrogen , standing over acid , is absorbed at a fair rate under the influence of electric sparks .
But with an apparatus such as that shown in fig. 1 , the efficiency is but a fraction ( perhaps ) of that obtainable when oxygen is substituted for hydrogen and alkali for acid.\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] 4 .
Experiments on Nitrogen with Oxygen in presence of In our earliest attempts to isolate the suspected gas by the method of CAVENDISH , we used a RUHMKORFF coil of medium size actuated by a battery of five Grove cells .
The gases were contained in a test-tube , fig. 1 , standing over a large quantity of weak alkali , and the current was conveyed in wires insulated by -shaped glass tubes CC passing through the liquid round the mouth of the test tube .
The inner platinum ends DD of the wires were sealed into the glass insulating tubes , but reliance was not placed upon these sealings .
In order to secure tightness in spite of cracks , mercury was placed in the bends .
This disposition of the electrodes complicates the apparatus somewhat and entails the use of a large depth of liquid in order to render possible the withdrawal of the tubes , but it has the great advantage of dispensing with sealing electrodes of platinum into the principal vessel , which might give way and cause the loss of the experiment at the most inconvenient moment .
With the given battery and coil a somewhat short spark , or arc , of about 5 millims. was found to be more favourable than a longer one .
When the mixed gases were in the right the rate of absorption was about 30 cub. centims. * Journ. Chem. Soc 1876 , vol. 2 , p. 349 .
'Annalen der Chemie .
Pharmacie , ' 195 , 373 .
fflHLINGER , ' Monatsh . .
Chemie , ' 15 , 391 .
of his day .
neumatic toxygen wdded.kind s perceptible contraction an hour 's sparking : : in which the volume was found to be cub. centim. On treatment with alkaline late , the gas shrank to 32 cub. centim. That this small residue could not be nitrogen was argued from the fact that it had the prolonged action of the spark , although mixed with oxygen in nearly the most iavourable proportion .
The residue was then transferred to the test-tube with an addition of another : 50 cub. centims. of air : and the whole worked up with oxygen as before .
The residue : was now cub. centims. , and , after removal of oxygen , 76 cub. centim. A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
Although it seemed almost impossible that these residues could be either nitrogen or hydrogen , some anxiety was not unnatural , seeing that the final sparking took place under somewhat abnormal conditions .
The space was very restricted , and the temperature ( and with.it the proportion of aqueous vapour ) was unduly hi gh .
But any doubts that were felt upon this score were removed by comparison experiments in which the whole quantity of air operated on was very ] .
Thus , when a mixture of 5 cub. centims. of air with 7 cub. centims. of oxygen was sparked for one hour and a quarter , the residue was cub. centim. , and , after removal of oxygen , 06 cub. centim. Several repetitions having given similar results , it became clear that the final residue did not depend upon anything that might happen when sparks passed through a greatly reduced volume , bub was in proportion to the amount of upon .
No satisfactory examination of the residue which refused to be oxidised could be made without the accumulation of a larger quantity .
This , however , was difficult of attainment at the time in question .
The gas seemed to rebel against the law of addition .
It was thought that the cause probably lay in the solubility of the gas in water , a suspicion since confirmed .
At length , however , a sufficiency was collected to allow of sparking in a specially constructed tube , when a comparison with the air spectrum taken under similar conditions proved that , at any rate , the gas was not nitrogen .
At first scarcely a trace of the principal nitrogen lines could be seen , bub after standing over water for an hour or two these lines became apparent .
[ The apparatus shown in fi has proved to be convenient for the purification of small quantities of argon , and for determinations of the amount of argon present in various samples of gas , e.g. , in the gases expelled from solution in water .
To set it in action an alternating current is much to be preferred to a battery and break .
At the Royal Institution the primary of a small RUHMKORFF was fed from the 100-volt alternating current supply , controlled by two large incandescent lamps in series with the coil .
With this arrangement the voltage at the terminals of the secondary , available for starting the sparks , was about 2000 , and could be raised to 4000 by plugging out one of the lamps .
With both lamps in use the rate of absorption of mixed gases was 80 cub. centims. per hour , and this was about as much as could well be carried out in a test-tube .
Even with this amount of power it was found better to abandon the sealings at D. No inconvenience arises from the open ends , if the tubes are wide enough to ensure the liberation of any gas included over the mercury when they are sunk below the liquid .
The power actually expended upon the coil is very ] .
When the apparatus is at work the current taken is only amperes .
As regards the voltage , by far the greater part is consumed in the lamps .
The efficient voltage at the terminals of the primary coil is best found indirectly .
Thus , if A be the current in amperes , the total voltage , the voltage at the terminals of the coil , that at the terminals of the lamps , the watts used are *AYRTON and SUmPNER , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 49 , p. 427 , 1891 . .
In the present case a CARDEW voltmeter gave ; and in the formula may be neglected .
Thus , approximately .
The work consumed by the coil when the sparks are passing is , less than of a horse-power ; but , in designing an apparatus , it must further be remembered that in order to maintain the arc , a pretty high voltage is required at the terminals of the secondary when no current is passing in it.\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] 5 .
Experiments on of Nitrogen from Air by of Red-hot gnesium .
It having been proved that nitrogen , at a bright red heat , was easily absorbed by magnesium , best in the form of turnings , an attempt was successfully made to remove that gas from the residue left after eliminating oxygen from air by means of red-hot copper .
The preliminary experiment was made in the following manner : .
combustion tube , , was filled with magnesium turnings , packed tightly by pushing them in with a rod .
This tube was connected with a second piece of combustion tubing , , by means of thick-walled india-rubber tubing , carefully wired ; contained copper oxide , and , in its turn , was connected with the tube , one-half of which contained soda- lime , previously lgnited to expel moisture , while the other half was filled with phosphoric anhydride , is a measuring vessel , and is a gas-holder containing atmospheric nitrogen .
A NEW CONSTITUENT THE ATMOSPHERE .
In beginning an experiment , the tubes were heated with long-flame burners , and pumped empty ; a little hydrogen was formed by the action of the moisture on the metallic magnesium ; it was oxidised by the copper oxide and absorbed by the phosphoric pentoxide .
A gauge attached to the SPRENGEL'S pump , connected with the apparatus , showed when a vacuum had been reached .
A quantity of nitrogen was then measured in , and admitted into contact with the red-hot magnesium .
Absorption took place , rapidly at first and then slowly , as shown by the gauge on the SPRENGEL'S pump .
A fresh quantity was then measured and admitted , and these operations were repeated until no more could be absorbed .
The system of tubes was then pumped empty by means of the SPRENGEL'S pump , and the gas was collected .
magnesium tube was then detached and replaced by another .
The unabsorbed gas was returned to the measuring-tube by a device shown in the figure ( G ) and the absorption recommenced .
After 1094 cub. centims. of gas had been thus treated , there was left about 50 cub. centims. of gas , which resisted rapid absorption .
It still contained nitrogen , however , judging by the dirninution of volume which it experienced when allowed to stand in contact with red-hot magnesium .
Its density was , nevertheless , determined by weighing a small bulb of about 40 cub. centims. capacity , first with air , and afterwards with the gas .
The data are these:\mdash ; Weight of bulb and air \mdash ; that of glass counterpoise alone\mdash ; that of glass counterpoise , , , , air . . . . . . . .
Weight of bulb and gas \mdash ; that of glass counterpoise alone \mdash ; that of glass counterpoise , , , gas . . . . .
Taking as the weight of a litre of air , grms. , the mean of the latest results , and of oxygen ) grms. , * the density of the residual gas is * The results on which this and the subsequent calculations are based are as follows ( the weights are those of litre ) REGNAULT'S numbers have an approximate correction applied to them by CItAFTS .
The of these CCCXCV .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
ings , also heated to bright redness by means of a long-flame burner .
contained phosphoric , and I soda-lime .
All joints were sealed , excepting those connecting the hard-glass tubes and to , he tubes next them .
The gas-holder A having been filled with nitrogen , prepared by passing air over red- hot copper , and introduced at , the gas was slowly passed through the system of tubes into the gas-holder , and back again .
The magnesium in the tube having then ceased to absorb was quickly removed and replaced by a fresh tube .
This tube was of course full of air , and before the tube was heated , the air was carried back from towards A by passing a little nitrogen from right to left .
The oxygen in the air was removed by bhe metallic copper , and the nitrogen passed into the gas-holder , to be returned in the opposite direction to B. In the course of about ten days most of the nitrogen had been absorbed .
The magnesium was not always completely exhausted ; usually the nitride presented the appearance of a blackish-yellow mass , easily shaken out of the tube .
It is needless to say that the tube was always somewhat acked , becoming black with a coating of magnesium silicide .
The nitride of magnesium , whether blackish or orange , if left for a few hours exposed to moist air , was completely converted into white , dusty hydroxide , and during exposure it off a strong odour of ammonia .
If kept in a stoppered bottle , however , it was quite stable .
It was then necessary , in order to continue the absorption , to carry on operations on a smaller scale , with precautions to exclude atmospheric air as completely as possible .
There was at this stage a residue of 1500 cub. centims. The apparatus was therefore altered to that shown in fig. 4 , so as to make it possible to withdraw all the gas out of the gas-holder A. The left-hand exit led to the SPRENGEL'S pump ; the compartment ( a ) of the drying-tube was filled with soda-lime , and ( b ) with phosphoric anhydride .
is a A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
hung from the end of the beam to which it was suspended , and the final weight was adjusted by means of a rider , or by small weights on the other pan .
This process practically leads to weighing by substitution of gas for weights .
The bulb was always handled with gloves , to avoid moisture or grease from the fingers .
Three experiments , of which it is unnecessary to give details , were made to test the degree of accuracy with which a gas could be weighed , the gas being dried freed from carbon dioxide .
The mean result gave for the weight of one litre of at and 760 millims. pressure , .
REGNAULT found , a correction having been applied by CRAFTS to allow for the estimated alteration of volume caused by the contraction of his vacuous bulb .
The mean result of determinations by severa ] is ; while one of us found The globe was then filled with the carefully dried gas .
Temperature , .
Pressure , millims. Weight of cub. centims. of gas . . .
Weight of llitre gas at and 760 millims. . . .
, , Density , that of air compared with , being grms. It is evident from these numbers that the dense constituent of the air was being concentrated .
As a check , the bulb was pumped empty and again weighed ; its weight was .
This makes the density It appeared advisable to continue to absorb nitrogen from this gas .
The first tube of magnesium removed a considerable quantity of gas ; the nitride was converted into ammonium chloride , and the sample contained per cent. of chlorine , showing , as has before been remarked , that if any of the heavier constituent of the .
atmosphere had been absorbed , ib formed no basic compound with hydrogen .
The second tube of magnesium was hardly attacked ; most of the magnesium had melted , and formed a layer at the lower part of the tube .
That which was still left in the body of the tube was black on the surface , but had evidently not been much attacked .
The ammonium chloride which it yielded weighed only The density of the remaining gas was then determined .
But as its volume was only a little over 100 cub. centims. , the bulb , the capacity of which was 162 cub. centims. , had to be filled at reduced pressure .
This was easily done by replacing the level oercury iholder ahich served ashaped reservoir oercury gholder bstraight toting t reservoir against a graduated mirror-scale by help of a cathetomer at the moment of : closing the stop-cock of the density bulb .
The details of the experiment are these:\mdash ; Temperature , C. Barometric pressure , millims. ( corr .
) .
Difference read on gas-holder and tube , millims. ( corr .
) .
Actual pressure , millims. Weight of cub. centims. 01 gas Weight of 1 litre at and 760 millims. pressure Density grms. This gas is accordingly at least 19 times as heavy as hydrogen .
A portion of the gas was then mixed with oxygen , and submitted to a rapid discharge of sparks for four hours in presence of caustic potash .
It contracted , and on absorbing the excess of oxygen with pyrogallate of potassium the contraction amounted to per cent. of the original volume .
The question then arises , if the gas contain per cent. of nitrogen , of density , and per cent. of other gas , and if the density of the mixture were , what would be the density of the other gas Calculation leads to the number A vacuum-tube was filled with a specimen of the gas of density , and it could not be doubted that it contained nitrogen , the bands of which were distinctly visible .
It was probable , , that the true density of the pure gas lay not far from 20 times that of hydrogen .
At the same time many lines were seen which could not be recognized as belonging to the spectrum of any known substance .
Such were the preliminary experiments made with the aid of magnesium to separate from ) atmospheric nitrogen dense constituent .
The methods adopted in preparing large quantities will be subsequently described .
6 .
of the Presence of Argon in Air , by means of Atmolysis .
It has already ( S2 ) been suggested that if ' ' atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; contains two gases of different densities , it should be possible to obtain direct evidence of the fact by the method of atmolysis .
The present section contains an account of carefully conducted experiments directed to end .
The atmolyser was prepared ( after GRAHAM ) by combining a number of " " churchwarden\ldquo ; tobacco pipes .
At first twelve pipes were used in three groups , each group including four pipes connected in series .
The three groups then connected in parallel , and placed in a large glass tube closed in such a way that a partial vacuum could be maintained in the space outside the pipes by a water-pump .
One end of the combination of pipes was open to the atmosphere , or rather was connected with the interior of an open bottle containing sticks of caustic alkali , the object being mainly to dry the air .
The other end of the combination was connected to a bottle aspirator , initially full of water , and so arranged as to draw about two per cent. of the air which entered the other end of the pipes .
The gas collected was thus a very small proportion of that which leaked through the pores , of the pipes , and should be relatively rich in the heavier constituents of the atmosphere .
The flow of water from the aspirator could not be maintained very constant , but the rate of two per cent. was never much exceeded .
The necessary four litres took about sixteen hours to collect .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
The air thus obtained was treated exactly as ordinary air had .
been treated in determinations of the density of atmospheric nitrogen .
Oxygen was removed by red-hot copper followed by cupric oxide , ammonia by sulphuric acid , carbonic anhydride and moisture by potash and phosphoric anhydride .
The following are the results:\mdash ; Globe empty July 10 , 14 . . . .
Globe full September 15 ( twelve pipes ) 50286 Weight of gas . . . . . .
Ordinary atmospheric nitrogen . . .
Difference . . . . .
Globe empty September 17 . . . .
Globe full September 18 ( twelve pipes ) Weight of gas . . . . .
Ordinary atmospheric nitrogen . . .
Difference . . . . .
Globe empty September 21 . . . .
Globe full September 20 ( twelve pipes ) 51031 Weight of gas . . . . .
Ordinary atmospheric rogen Diflerence . . . . .
Globe empty September 21 , October 30 Globe full September 22 ( twelve pipes ) 51140 Weight of gas .
Ordinary atmospheric nitrogen . . .
Difference . . . . .
The mean excess of the four determinations is 00262 gram .
, or if we omit the first , which depended upon a vacuum of two months old , 00187 gram .
The gas from prepared air was thus in every case denser than from unprepared air , and to an extent much beyond the possible errors of experiment .
The excess was , however , less than been expected , and it was thought that the arrangement of the pipes could be improved .
The final delivery of gas from each of the groups in parallel being so small in comparison with the whole streams concerned , it seemed possible that each group was not contributing its proper share , and even that there might be a flow in the wrong direction at the delivery end of one or two of them .
To meet this objection , the arrangement in had to be abandoned , and for the remaining experiments eight pipes were connected in lmple series The porous surface in operation was thus reduced , but this was partly compensated for by an improved vacuum .
Two experiments were under the new conditions:\mdash ; Globe empty , October 30 , November 5 Globe full , November 3 ( eight pipes ) 50930 Weight of gas . . . . .
Ordinary atmospheric nitrogen Difference . .
, , . .
Globe empty , November 5 , 8 .
Globe full , November 6 ( eight pipes ) 51011 Weight of gas . . . .
Ordinary atmospheric nitrogen Difference . . . . .
The excess being larger than before is doubtless due to the greater efficiency of the atmolysing apparatus .
It should be mentioned that the above recorded experiments include all that have been tried , and the conclusion seems inevitable that " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; is a mixture and not a simple body .
It was hoped that the concentration of the heavier constituent would be sufficient to facilitate its preparation in a pure state by the use of prepared air in substitution for ordinary .
air in the oxygen apparatus .
The advance of .
on the 11 mg .
, by which atmospheric nitrogen is heavier than chemical nitrogen , is indeed not to be despised , and the use of prepared air would be convenient if the diffusion apparatus could be set up on a large scale and be 11iade thoroughly self-acting .
7 .
Experiments to Prove Argon is not derived from Nitrogen from Sources .
Although the evidence of the existence of argon in the atmosphere , derived from the comparison of densities of atmospheric and chemical nitrogen and from the diffusion experiments ( S6 ) , appeared oyerwhelming , we have thought it undesirable to shrink from any labour that would tend to complete the verification .
With this object in view , experiment was undertaken and carried to a conclusion on November 13 , in which 3 litres of chemical nitrogen , prepared from nonium nitrite , were treated with oxygen in precisely the manner in which atmospheric nitrogen had been found to yield a of argon .
In the course of operations an A NEW CONSTITUENT OF ATMOSPHERE .
accident occurred , by which no gas could have been lost , but of such a nature that from 100 to 200 cub. centims. of air must have entered the working vessel .
The gas remaining at the close of the large scale operations was worked up as usual with battery and coil until the spectrum showed only slight traces of the nitrogen lines .
When cold , the residue measured 4 cub. centims. This was transferred , and after treatment with alkaline pyrogallate to remove oxygen , measured cub. centims. If atmospheric nitrogen had been employed , the final residue should have been about 30 cub. centims. Of the cub. centims. actually left , a part is accounted for by the accident alluded to , and the result of the experiment is to show that argon is not formed by sparking a mixture of oxygen and chemical nitrogen .
In a second experiment of the same kind 5660 cub. centims. of nitrogen from ammonium nitrite were treated with oxygen in the large apparatus ( fig. 7 , S8 The final residue was cub. centims. ; and as evidenced by the spectrum , it consisted mainly of argon .
The source of the residual argon is to be found in the water used for the manipulation of the large quantities of gas ( 6 litres of nitrogen and 11 litres of oxygen ) employed .
Unfortunately the gases had been collected by allowing them to bubble up into aspirators charged with ordinary water , and they were displaced by ordinary water .
In order to obtain information with respect to the contamination that may be acquired in this way , a parallel experiment was tried with carbonic anhydride .
Eleven litres of the gas , prepared from marble and hydrochloric acid with ordinary precautions for the exclusion of air , were collected exactly as oxygen was commonly ] lected .
It was then transferred by displacement with water to a gas pipette charged with a solution containing 100 grms. of caustic soda .
The residue which refused absorption measured as much as 110 cub. centims. In another experiment where the tter employed had been partially de-aerated , the residue left amounted to 71 cub. centims. , of which 26 cub. centims. were oxygen .
The quantities of dissolved gases thus extracted from water during the collection of oxygen and nitrogen suffice to explain the residual argon of the negative experiments .
It may perhaps be objected that the impurity was contained in the carbonic anhydride itself as it issued from the generating vessel , and was not derived from the water in the gas-holder ; and indeed there seems to be a general impression that it is difficult to obtain carbonic anhydride in a state of purity .
To test this question , 18litres of the gas , made in the same generator and from the same materials , were passed directly into the absorption .
Under these conditions , the residue was only .
centims. , corresponding to 4 cub. centims. from 11 litres .
The quantity of gas employed was determined by decomposing the resulting sodiunl carbonate with acid , allowance being made for a little carbonic anhydride contained in the soda as taken from the stock bottle .
It will be seen that there is no ulty in reducing the impurity to , even when india-rubber connections are freely used , and no extraordinary precautions are taken .
The large amount of impurity A NEW fITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
8 .
Separation of on a Scale .
To separate nitrogen " " atmospheric \ldquo ; on a large scale , by help of magnesium , several devices were tried .
It is not necessary to descrlbe them all in detail .
Suffice it to say that an attempt was made to cause a store of ( atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; to circulate by means of a fan , driven by a water-motor .
The difficulty encountered here was leakage at the bearing of the fan , and the introduced air produced a cake which blocked the tube on coming into contact with the magnesium .
It might have been possible to remove oxygen by metallic copper ; but instead of thus complicating the apparatus , a water-injector was made use of to induce circulation .
Here also it is unnecessary to enter into details .
For , though the plan worked well , and although about 120 litres of " " atmospheric nitrogen " " were absorbed , the yield of argon was not large , about 600 cub. centims. having been collected .
This loss was subsequently discovered to be due , at least , to the relatively high solubility of argon in water .
In order to propel the gas over magnesium , through a long combustion-tube packed with lurnings , a considerable water-pressure , involving a large flow of water , was necessary .
The gas was brought into intimate contact with this water , and presuming that several thousand litres of water ran ough the injector , it is obvious that a not inconsiderable amount of argon must have been dissolved .
Its proportion was increasing at each circulation , and consequently its partial pressure also increased .
Hence , towards the end of the operation , at least , there is every reason to believe that a serious loss had occurred .
It was next attempted to pass " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; from a gas-holder first through a combustion tube of the usual length packed with metallic copper reduced from the oxide ; then through a small -tube containing a little water , which was intended as an index of the rate of flow ; the gas was then dried by passage through tubes filled with soda-lime and phosphoric anhydride ; and it next passed through a long iron tube ( gas-pipe ) packed with magnesium turnings , and heated to bright redness in a second combustion-furnace .
After the iron tube ]Jowed a second small -tube containing water , intended to indicate the rate at which the argon escaped into a small gas-holder placed to receive it .
The nitrogen was absorbed rapidly , and argon entered the small gas-holder .
But there was reason to suspect that the iron tube is pel.meable by argon at a red heat .
The first tube-full allowed lit , the argon to pass .
After it had been remoyed and replaced by a second , the same thing was noticed .
The first tube was difficult to clean ; the nitride of magnesium forms a cake on the interior of the tube , and it was very difficult to remove it ; moreover this rendered the f of the tube very troublesome , inasmuch as its interior was so rough that the magnesium turnings could only with difficulty be forced down .
However , the permeability to argon , if such be the case , appeared to have decreased .
The iron tube was coated internally with a skin of magnesium nitride , which appeared to diminish its permeability to argon .
RAyLEIGH AND PROFESSOR W. RAMSAy ON ARGON , After all the magnesium in the tube had been converted into nitride ( and this was easily known , because a bright glow proceeded gradually from one end of the tube to the other ) the argon remaining in the iron tube was " " washed\ldquo ; out by a current of nitrogen ; so that after a number of operations , the small gas-holder contained a mixture of argon with a consid erable quantity of nitrogen .
On the whole , the use of iron is not to be recommended , owing to the difficulty in cleaning them , and the possible loss through their permeability to argon .
There is no such risk ] with glass tubes , but each operation requires a new tube , and the cost of the glass is considerable if much nitrogen is to be absorbed .
Tubes of porcelain were tried ; but the glaze in the interior is destroyed by the action of the red-hot magnesium , and the tubes crack on cooling .
By these processes of " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; were reduced in volume to about 25litres in all of a mixture of nitrogen and argon .
This mixture was afterwards circulated over red-hot magnesium , in order to remove the last portion of ogen .
Fig. 5 .
As the apparatus emplo ed for this purpose proved very convenient , a full tion of its construction is here given .
A diagram is shown in fur .
5 , which sufficiently explains the arrangement of the apparatus .
A is the circulator .
It consists of a sort of SPRENGEL'S pump ( a ) to which a supply of mercury is admitted from a small A NEW CONSTTTUENT OF reservoir ( b ) .
This mercury is delivered .
into a gas-separator , and the mercury overflows into the reservoir ( d ) .
When its level rises , so that it blocks the tube ( f ) , it ascends in pellets or pistons into , a reservoir which is connected through ( g ) with a water-pump .
The mercury falls into ( b ) , and again passes down the SPRENGEL tube .
No attention is , therefore , required , for the apparatus works quite auto- matically .
This form of apparatus was employed several years ago by Dr. COLLIE .
The gas is drawn from the gas-holder , and passes through a tube , which is heated to redness by a long-flame burner , and which contains in one half metallic copper , and in the other half copper oxide .
This precaution is taken in order to remove any oxygen which may possibly be present , and also any hydrogen or hydrocarbon .
In practice , it was never found that the copper became oxidised , or the oxide reduced .
It is , however , useful to guard against any possible contamination .
The gas next traversed a drying-tube , the anterior portion containing ignited soda-lime , and the posterior portion phosphoric anhydride .
From this it passed a reservoir , , from which it could be transferred , when all absorption had ceased , into the small gasholder .
It then passed through , a piece of combustion-tube , drawn out at both ends , filled with magnesium turnings , and heated by a long-flame burner to redness .
Passing through a small bulb , provided with electrodes , it again entered the fall tube .
After the magnesium tube had done its work , the stop-cocks were all closed , and the gas was turned down , so that the burners might cool .
The mixture of argon and nitrogen remaining in the system of tubes was pumped out by a SPRENGEL'S pump through , collected in a large test-tube , and reintroduced into the gas-holder through the side-tube , which requires no description .
The magnesium tube was then replaced by a fresh one ; the system of tubes was exhausted of air ; argon and nitrogen were admitted from the gas-holder ; the copper-oxide tube and the magnesium tube were again heated ; and the operation was repeated until absorption ceased .
It was easy to decide when this point had been reached , by making use of the graduated cylinder , from which water entered the gas-holder B. It was found advisable to keep all the water employed in these operations , for it had become saturated with argon .
If gas was withdrawn from the -holder , its place was taken by this saturated water .
The absorption of nitrogen proceeds very slowly towards the end of the operation , and the diminution in volume of the gas is not greater than 4 or 5 cub. centims. per hour .
It is , therefore , somewhat difficult to judge of the end-point , as will be seen when experiments on the density of this gas are described .
The magnesium tube , towards the end of the operations , was made so hot that the metal was melted in the lower part of the tube , and sublimed in the upper part .
The argon and residual nitrogen had , therefore , been thoroughly mixed with gaseous magnesium during itr , passage through the tube E. To avoid possible contamination with air in the SPRENGEL'S pump , the last portion of gas collected from the system of tubes was not re-admitted to the gas-holder , but was separately stored .
The crude argon was collected in two operations .
First , the quantity made by absorption by magnesium in glass tubes with the water-pump circulator was purified .
Later , after a second supply had been prepared by absorption lron tubes , the mixture of argon and nitrogen was united with the first quantity and circulated by means of the mercury circulator , in the gas-holder B. Attention will be drawn to the particular sample of gas omployed in describing further experiments made with the argon .
By means nesiumo , about 7 litres of nitrogen can be absorbed in an hour .
The changing of the tubes of magnesium , however , takes some time ; consequently , the largest amount absorbed in one day was nearly 30litres .
At a later date a quantitative experiment was carried out on a large scale , the amount of argon from litres of " " atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen , measured at , having been absorbed by magnesium , and the resulting argon measured at the process of absorbing trogen in the combustion-furnace , however , one tube cracked , and it is estimated that about 4 litres of nitrogen escaped before the crack was noticed .
With this deduction , and assuming that the nitrogen had been measured at litres of atmospheric nitrogen were taken .
The magnesium required for absorption weighed 409 grms. The amount required by theory should have been 285 grms. ; but it must be remembered that in many cases the magnesium was by no means wholly converted into nitride .
The first operation yielded about 3 litres of a mixture of nitrogen and argon , which was purified in the circulating apparatus .
The total residue , after absorption of the nitrogen , amounted to 921 cub. centims. The yield is therefore per cent. At first doubt the nitrogen gains a little argon from the water over which stands .
But , later , when the argon forms the greater portion of the gaseous mixture , its solubility in water must materially decrease its volume .
It is difficult to estimate the loss from this cause .
The ] , from which the final circulation took place : held three litres of water .
Taking the solubility of argon as 4 per cent. , this would mean a loss of about 120 cub. centims. If this is not an over-estimate , the yield of argon would be increased to 1040 .
centims. , or 1.11 per cent. truth probably lies between these two estimates .
It may be concluded , with probability , that the argon forms approximately 1 per cent. of the " " atmospheric\ldquo ; IJitrogen .
The principal objection to the oxygen method of isolating , as hitherto described , is the extreme slowness of the operation .
An of 30 cub. centims. of mixed gas means the , removal of but 12 cub. centims. of nitrogen .
At this rate 8 hours are required for the isolation of 1 cub. centim. of argon , supposed to be present in the proportion of 1 per cent. In extending the scale of operations we had the great advantage of the advice of A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE Mr. CROOKES , who a short time ago called attention to the flame rising from platinum terminals , which convey a high tension alternating electric discharge , and pointed out its dependence upon combustion of the nitrogen and oxygen of the air .
Mr. CROOKES was kind enough to arrange an impromptu demonstration ab his own house with a small alternating current plant , in which it appeared that the absorption of mixed gas was at the rate of 500 cub. centims. per hour , or nearly 20 times as fast as with the battery .
The arrangement is similar to that first described by SPOTTISWOODE .
The primary of a RUHMKORFF coil is connected directly with the alternator , no break or condenser being required ; so that , in fact , the coil acts simply as a high potential transformer .
When the arc is established the platinum terminals may be separated much beyond the initial striking distance .
The plant with which the large scale operations have been made consists of a DE MERITENS alternator , kindly lent by Professor J. J. THOMSON , and a gas engine .
As transformer , one of SWINBURNE'S hedgehog pattern has been employed with success , but the atio of transformation ( 24 : 1 ) is scarcely sufficient .
A higher potential , although , perhaps , not more efficient , is more convenient .
The striking distance is greater , and the arc is not so liable to go out .
Accordingly of the work to be described has been performed with transformers of the RUHMKORFF type .
The apparatus has been varied greatly , and it cannot be regarded as having even yet assumed a final form .
But it will give a sufficient idea of the method if we describe an experiment in which a tolerably good account was kept of the air and oxygen employed .
The working vessel was a glass flask , ( fig. 6 ) , of about 1500 cub. centims. capacity , and stood , neck downwards , over a large jar of alkali , B. As in the small scale experiments , the leading-in wires were insulated by glass tubes , DD , suitably bent and carried the liquid up the neck .
For the greater part of the length iron wires were employed , but the internal extremibies , , were of platinum , doubled upon itself at the terminals from which the discharge escaped .
The glass protecting tubes must be carried up for some distance above the internal level of the liquid , but it is desirable that the arc itself should not be much raised above that level .
A general idea of the disposition of the electrodes will be obtained from fig. 6 .
To ensure gas tightness the bends were occupied by mercury .
A tube , , for the supply or withdrawal of gas was carried in the same way through the neck .
The RUHMKORFF employed in this operation was one of medium size .
When the mixture was hlly proportioned and the arc of full length , the rate of absorption was about 700 cub. centims. per hour .
A good deal of time is lost in starting , for , especially when there is soda on the platinums , the arc is liable to go out if lengthened prematurely .
After seven days total quantity of air let in amounted to 7925 cub. centims. , and of oxygen ( prepared from chlorate of potash ) 9137 cub. centims. On * Chemical News , ' vol. 65 , p. 301 , 1892 .
" " A Mode of Exciting an Induction-coil.\ldquo ; 'Phil .
Mag vol. 8 , p. 390 , 1879 .
LORD RAYLEIGH AND ] the eighth and ninth oxygen alone was about 700 was consumed , while there remalne bin proportion in which the air and oxygen com there about three hours ' work , and the quarter of the previous rate .
On the ninth Fig. 6 .
more , and after three hours ' work became of nitrogen was examined from time to approximated and connected with a small nitrogen line was faint , but plainly visible .
yellow line had disappeared , and for two ho It will be seen that the removal of the last on of the large excess of oxygen moment by a glance at the spectrum .
At the minimum volume the gas was certainly not hydrogen or oxygen .
Was it nitrogen ?
On this point the testimony of the spectroscope was equally decisive .
No trace of the yellow nitrogen line could be seen ours oparking wxygen wequired again tmportant troportions oitrogen cwide snder tonditions .
quently to the disappearance of nitrogen in its spectrum .
It found that about S per cent. was clearly , and about per cent. was conspicuously , visible .
About the same numbers apply to the sibility of nitrogen in oxygen when sparked under these conditions , that is , at atmospheric pressure , and with a jar in connection with the secondary terminals .
When we attempt to increase the rate of absorption by the use of a more powerful electric arc , further experimental difficulties present themselves .
In the arrangement. .
already described , giving an absorption of 700 cub. centims. per hour , the upper part of the flask becomes very hot .
With a more powerful arc the heat rises to such a point that the flask is filled with steam and the comes to a standstill .
It is necessary to keep the vessel cool by either the external or internal application of liquid to the upper surface upon which the hot gases from the arc impinge .
One way of effecting this is to cause a small fountain of alkali to impinge on the top of lask , hole opper surfacelout ibjection tdown would bisastrous , ouldThis p ' ements tvoid 1quantity oequired.nany respects tbyimmersing iarge bater , nverted flask aement ( been applied in this manner .
But , on the whole , it appears to be preferable to limit the application of the cooling water to the upper part of the external surface , building 3 up for this purpose a suitable wall of sheet lead cemented round the .
The most MDCCCXCV .
LORD ] ] AND W. RAMSAY ON ARGON , convenient apparatus for large-scale operations that has hitherto been tried is shown in the accompanying figure ( fig. 7 ) .
The vessel A is a globe of about capacity , intended for demonstrating the combustion of phosphorus in oxygen gas , and stands in an inclined position .
It is about half filled with a solution of caustic soda .
The neck is fitted with a rubber stopper , , provided with four perforations .
Two of these are fitted with tubes , , suitable for the supply or withdrawal of gas or liquid .
The other two allow the passage of the stout glass tubes , , which contain the electrodes .
For greater security against leakage , the interior of these tubes is charged with water , held in place by small corks , and the outer ends are cemented up .
The electrodes are formed Fig. 7 .
of stout iron wires terminated by thick platinums , , triply folded together , and welded at the ends .
The lead walls required to enclose the cooling water are partially shown at I. For greater security the india-rubbel .
cork is also drowned in water , held in place with the aid of sheet-lead .
The lower part of the globe is occupied by about 3 litres of a 5 per cent. solution of caustic soda , the solution rising to within about half-an-inch of the platinum .
With this a pparatus an absorption of 3litres of mixed gas per hour can be attained , \mdash ; about 3000 times the rate at which CAVENDISH could work .
When it is desired to stop operations , the feed of air ( or of chemical nitro en in blank experiments ) is cut off , oxygen alone being supplied as lon as an visible gen absorption occurs .
Thus at the close the gas space is occupied are on and ox as any vlsl such nitrogen as cannot readily be taken up in a condition of so great dilution .
argon an oxygen A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE , The oxygen , being too much for convenient treatment with hydrogen , was usually absorbed with copper and ammonia , and the residual gas was then worked over again as already described in an apparatus constructed upon a smaller scale .
It is worthy of notice that with the removal of the nitrogen , the arc-discharge from the dynamo changes greatly in appearance , bridging over more directly and in a nar- rower band from one platinum to the other , and assuming a beautiful sky-blue colour , instead of the greenish hue apparent so long as oxidation of nitrogen is in progress .
In all the large-scale experiments , an attempt was made to keep a reckoning of the air and oxygen employed , in the hope of obtaining data as to the proportional volume of argon in air , but various accidents too often interfered .
In one successful experiment ( January , 1895 ) , undertaken for the sake of measurement , the total air employed was 9250 cub. centims. , and the oxygen consumed , manipulated with the aid of partially de-aerated water , amounted to 10,820 cub. centims. The oxygen contained in the air would be 1942 cub. centims. ; so that the quantities of " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; and of total oxygen which enter into combination would be 7308 cub. centims. , and 12,762 cub. centims. respectively .
This corresponds to \mdash ; the oxygen being decidedly in excess of the proportion required to form nitrous , or .
The argon ultimately found on absorption of the excess of oxygen was cub. centims. , reduced to conditions similar to those under which the air was measured , or a little more than 1 per cent. of the " " atmospheric nitrogen\ldquo ; used .
It is probable , however , that some of the argon was lost by solution during the protracted operations in order to get quit of the last traces of nitrogen .
[ In recent operations at the Royal Institution , where a public supply of alternating current at 100 volts is available , the scale of the apparatus has been still further increased .
The capacity of the working vessel is 20 litres , of which about one half is occupied by a strong solution of caustic soda .
The platinum terminals are very massive , and the flame rising from them is prevented from impinging directly upon the glass by a plate of platinum held over it and supported by a wire which passes through the rubber cork .
In the electrical arrangements we have had the advantage of Mr. SWINBURNE'S advice .
The transformers are wo of the " " hedgehog- , , patterll , the thick wires being connected in parallel and the thin wires in series .
In order to control the current taken when the arc is short or the platinums actually in contact , a choking-coil , provided with a movable core of fine iron wires , is inserted in the th wire circuit .
In normal working the current taken the mains is about 22 amperes , so that some .
is consumed .
At the same time the actual voltage at the platinum terminals is 1500 .
When the discharge ceases , the voltage at the platinum rises to which is the force actually available for re-starting the discharge if momentarily stopped .
still higher voltage on open cuit would be With this discharge , the rate of absorption of mixed gases is about 7litres per hour .
When the argon has accumulated to a considerable extent , the rate falls off , and after several days ' work , about 6 litres per hour becomes the maximum .
In commencing operations it is advisable to introduce , first , the oxygen necessary to combine with the already included air , after which the feed of mixed gases should consist of about hold consist of ab 11 parts of oxygen to 9 parts of air .
The ed gases may be contained in a large gas-holder , and then , the feed being automat , very little is required .
When it is desired to determine the rate of absorption , ,atlxiliary gas-holders of glass , graduated into litres , are called into play .
If the rate is unsatisfactory , a determina- tion may be made of the proportion of oxygen in the working vessel , and the necessary gas , air , or oxygen , as the case may be , introduced rectly .
In re-starting the arc after a period of intermission , it is rable to cut off the connection with the principal gas-holder .
The gas ( about two litres in amount ) ejected from the working vessel by the expansion is then retained in the auxiliary holder , and no argon finds its way further back .
The connection between the working vessel and the holder should be made without india-rubber , which is liable to be attacked by the ozonized The apparatus has been kept in operation for fourteen hours continuously , and there should be no difficulty in working day and night .
An electric signal could easily be arranged to give notice of the extinction of the arc , which sometimes occurs unexpectedly ; or an automatic device for re-striking the arc could be contrived April , 1895 .
] 9 .
of Argon by of A first estimate of the density of argon prepared by the oxygen method was founded upon the a recorded already respecting the volume present in air , on the assumption that the accurately known densities of ' atmospheric\ldquo ; and of chemical nitrogen differ on account of the presence of argon in the former , and that during the treatment with oxygen nothing is oxidised except .
Thus , if density of chemical nitrogen , , atmospheric nitrogen , argon , proportional volume of argon in atmospheric nitrogen , the law of mixtures gives or A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
In this formula and are both small ] , but they are known with fair accuracy .
From the data already given for the experiment of September 8th ; whence , if on an arbitrary scale of reckoning , we find .
Thus if be 14 , or be 16 , the density of argon is , from the January experiment , ; whence , if , the density of argon is , as before .
There can be little doubt , however , that these numbers are too high , the true value of being greater than is supposed in the above calculations .
A direct determination by weighing is desirable , but hitherto it has not been feasible to collect by this means sufficient to fill tho large globe ( S 1 ) employed for other gases .
A mixture of about 400 cub. centims. of argon with pure oxygen , however , gave the weight in excess of the weight of oxygen , viz. , .
Thus , if be the ratio of the volume of argon to the whole volume , the number for argon will be The value of , being involved only in the excess of weight above that of oxygen , does not require to be known very accurately .
Sufficiently concordant analyses by two methods gave ; whence , for the weight of the gas we get ; so that if , the density of the gas would be .
An allowance for esidual nitrogen , still visible in the gas before admixture of oxygen , raises this number to , which may be taken as the density of pure argon resulting from this determination .
* 10 .
Density of Argon by means of gnesium .
It has already been stated that the density of the residual gas from the first and preliminary attempt to separate oxygen and nitrogen from air by means of magnesium was , and allowing for contraction on sparking with oxygen the density is calculable as .
The following determinations of density were also made : After absorption in glass tubes , the water circulator having been used , and subsequent circulation by means of mercury circulator until rate of contraction had proportion of nitrogen ( 4 or 5 per cent. of the volume ) was estimated from the appearanca of the nitrogen lines in the spectrum , these being somewhat more easily visible than when 3 per cent. of was introduced into pure argon ( S 8).\mdash ; April , 1895 .
] See Addendum , p. 237 .
222 LORD RAYLEIGH AND PROFHiSSOR W. RAMSAY ON ARGON , become slow , centims. , measured at millims. ( corr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of llitre at and 760 millims. grms. Density compared with hydrogen This gas was again circulated over red-hot magnesium for two days .
Before circulation it contained nitrogen as was evident from its spectrum ; after circulating , nitrogen appeal.ed to be absent , and absorption had completely stopped .
The density was again determined .
162,843 cub. centims. , measured at millims. ( corr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of llitre at and 760 millims. grms. Density compared with hydrogen , , Several portions of this gas , having been withdrawn for various purposes , were somewhat contaminated with air , owing to leakage , through the pump , \amp ; c. All these portions were united in the gas-holder with the main stock , and circulated for eight hours , during the last three of which no contraction occurred .
The gas removed from the system of tubes by the mercury-pump was not restored.to the gas-holder , but kept separate .
cub. centims. , measured at milIims .
( corr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of 1 litre at and 760 millims. grms. Density compared with hydrogen The contents of the gas-holder were subsequently increased by a mixture of nitrogen and argon from 37 litres of atmospheric nitrogen , and after circulating , density was determined .
The absorption was however not complete .
cub. centims. , measured at millims. ( corr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of 1 litre at and 760 millims. grms. Density compared with hydrogen 19.49 rrhe gas was further circulated , until all absorption had ceased .
This took about hours .
Density was again determined .
cub measured a , t millims. ( orr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed 02773 .
Hence , Weight of llitre at and 760 millims. grms. 1)ensity compared with hydrogen 19.90 A NEW CONSTTTUENT OF THE .
223 ( f ) A second determination was rried out , without further circulation .
cub. centims. measured at 769:0 millims. COlT .
pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of 1 litre at and 760 millims. . . .
grms. Density compared with hydrogen .
, , After various experiments had been made with the same sample of gas , it was again circulated until all absorption ceased .
A vacuum-tube was filled with it , and showed no trace of nitrogen .
The density was again determined:\mdash ; cub. centims. measured at 750 millims. ( corr .
) , and at C. , weighed Weight of llitre at and 760 millims. .
grms. Density compared with hydrogen .
These comprise all the determinations of density made .
It should be stated that ; there was some uncertainty discovered later about the weight of the vacuous globe in ( b ) and .
Rejecting these weighings , the mean of , ( f ) , and ( g ) is .
The density may be taken as , with approximate accuracy .
It is better to leave these results without comment at this point , and to to them later .
11 .
Spectrum of Vacuum tubes were filled with argon prepared by means of magnesium at various stages in this work , and an examination of these tubes has been undertaken by Mr. CROOKES , to whom we wish to express our cordial thanks for his kindness in affording us helpful information with regard to its spectrum .
The first tube was filled with the early preparation of density , which obviously contained some nitrogen .
A photograph of the spectrum was taken , and compared with a photograph of the spectrum of nitrogen , and it was at once evident that a spectrum different from that of nitrogen had been registered .
Since that time many other samples have been examined .
The spectrum of argon , seen in a vacuum tube of about 3 millims. pressure , consists of a great number of lines , distributed over almost the whole visible field .
Two lines are specially characteristic ; they are less refrangible than the red lines of hydrogen or lithium , and serve well to identify the gas when examined in this way .
Mr. CROOKES , .
who gives a full account of the spectrum in a separate communication , has kindly furnished us with the accurate wave-lengths of these lines as well as of some others next to be described ; they are respectively and millim. Besides these red lines , a bright yellow line , more refrangible than the sodium line , A NEW CONSTTTUENT OF THE ATMOSPHER ] ( f ) A second determination was rried out , without further circulation .
cub. centims. measured at 769:0 millims. ( corr .
) pressure , and C. , weighed .
Hence , Weight of 1 litre at and 760 millims. Density compared with hydrogen .
, , After various experiments had been made with the same sample of gas , it was again circulated until all absorption ceased .
A vacuum-tube was filled with it , and showed no trace of nitrogen .
The density was again determined:\mdash ; cub. centims. measured at 750 millims. ( corr .
) pressure , and at C. , weighed Weight of llitre at and 760 millims. .
grms. Density compared with hydrogen .
, , These comprise all the determinations of density made .
It should be stated that there was some uncertainty discovered later about the weight of the vacuous globe in ( b ) and .
Rejecting these weighings , the mean of , ( f ) , and ( g ) is .
The density may be taken as , with approximate accuracy .
It is better to leaye these results without comment at this point , and to return to them later .
11 .
Spectrum of Arqon .
Vacuum tubes were filled with argon prepared by means of magnesium at various stages in this work , and an examination of these tubes has been undertaken by Mr. CROOKES , to whom we wish to express our cordial thanks for his kindness in affording us helpful information with regard to its spectrum .
The first tube was filled with the early preparation of density , which obviously contained some nitrogen .
A photograph of the spectrum was taken , and compared with a photograph of the spectrum of nitrogen , and it was at once evident that a spectrum different from that of nitrogen had been registered .
Since that time many other samples have been examined .
The spectrum of argon , seen in a vacuum tube of about 3 millims. pressure , consists ; of a great number of lines , distributed over almost the whole visible field .
Two lines are specially characteristic ; they are less refrangible than the red lines of hydrogen or lithium , and serve well to identify the gas when examined in this way .
Mr. CROOKES , : who gives a full account of the spectrum in a separate communication , has kindly ' furnished us with the accurate wave-lengths of these lines as well as of some others next to be described ; they are respectively and millim. : Besides these red lines , a bright yellow line , more refrangible than the sodium line , remarkable manner , but to make this method effective , some means of circulating the water would have to be introduced .
The extraction of the gases by heat proved to be more geable .
Although a large quantity of water has to be to or near 10 C. , a prolonged boiling is not necessary , as it is not a question of collecting the whole of the gas contained in the water .
The apparatus employed , which worked very well after a little experience , will be understood from the accompanying figure .
The boil , A was constructed Fig. 8 .
from an old.oil-can , and was heated by an ordinary ring Bunsen burner .
For the supply and removal of water , two co-axial tubes of thin brass , and more than four feet in length , were applied upon the regenerative rinci le .
The out oin water flowed in the inner tube BC , continued from to a rolon ation of pr nc pe .
outgolng water owe tubing .
The inflowing water from a rain-water cistern was delivered into a 1 a pro tube at , and passed throug a brass connectin tube FG into the narrow annul was lvere into a gass narrow annu are space between the two principal tubes .
The neck of th india-rubber cork and delivery-tube , by means of whicho the gases were collected in can fitted with an A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
the ordinary way .
Any carbonic anhydride was removed by alkali before passage into the glass aspirating bottles used as gas-holders .
The convenient working of this apparatus depends very much upon the mainten- ance of a suitable relation between the heat and the supply of water .
It is de.sirable that the water in the can should actually boil , but without a great development of steam ; otherwise not only is there a waste of heat , and thus a smaller yield of gas , but the inverted flask used for the collection of the gas becomes inconveniently hot and charged with steam .
It was found desirable to guard this by the application of a slow stream of water to the external surface of the flask .
When the supply of water is once adjusted , nearly half a litre of gas per hour can be collected with very little attention .
The gas , of which about four litres are required for each operation , was treated with red-hot copper , cupric oxide , sulphuric acid , potash , and finally phosphoric anhydride , exactly as atmospheric nitrogen was treated in former weighings .
The weights found , corresponding to those recorded in S1 , were on two occasions , 23221 and , showing an excess of 24 milligrms .
above the weight of true nitrogen .
Since the corresponding excess for atmospheric nitrogen is 11 milligrms .
, we conclude that the water-nitrogen is relatively twice as rich in argon .
Unless some still better process can be found , it may be desirable to collect the gases ejected from boilers , or from large supply pipes which run over an elevation , with a view to the preparation of argon upon a large scale .
The aboye experiments relate to rain water .
As regards spring water , it is known that many thermal springs emit considerable quantities of gas , hitherto regarded as nitrogen .
The question early occurred to us as to what proportion , if any , of the new gas was contained therein .
A notable example of a nitrogen spring is that at Bath , examined by DAUBENy in 1833 .
With the permission of the authorities of Bath , Dr. ARTHUR RICHARDSON was kind enough to collect for us about 10litres of the gases discharged from the King 's Spring .
A rough analysis on reception showed .
that it contained scarcely any oxygen and but little carbonic anhydride .
Two determinations of density were made , the gas being treated in all respects as air .
prepared by diffusion and unprepared , were treated for the isolation of atmospheric nitrogen .
The results were : rogen October 29 .
November 7 Mean . . . . .
Ss : The weight of the " " nitrogen\ldquo ; from the Bath gas is thus about halfway between that of chemical and ' atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen , suggesting that the proportion of argon is less than in air , instead of greater as had been expected .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
where is the frequency , is the wave-length of sound , its velocity , tho isothermal elasticity , the density , the temperature-correction , the specific heat at constant pressure , and that at constant volume .
In comparing two gases at the same temperature , each of which obeys BOyLE'S law with sufficient approximation and in using the same sound , many of these factors disappear , and the ratio of specific of one gas may be deduced from that of the other , if known , by the simple proportion where for example and refer to air , of which the ratio is , according to the mean of observations by RoNTGEN , WULLNER , KAYSER , and JAMIN and RICHARD .
The apparatus employed , although in principle the same as that usually employed , differed somewhat from the ordinary pattern , inasmuch as the tube was a narrow one , of 2 millims. bore , and the vibrator consisted of a glass rod , sealed into one end of the tube , so that about 15 centims. projected outside the tube , while 15 centims. was contained in the tube .
By rubbing the projecting part longitudinally with a rag wet with alcohol , vibrations of exceedingly high pitch of the gas contained in the tube took place , causing waves which registered their nodes by the usual device of lycopodium powder .
The temperature was that of the atmosphere and varied little from ; the pressure was ] atmospheric , and varied only one millim. during the experiments .
Much of the success of these experiments depends on so adjusting the length of the tube as to secure a good echo , else the wave-heaps are indistinct .
But this is easily secured by attaching to its open end a piece of thick-walled india- rubber tubing , which can be closed by a clip at a spot which is found experimentally to produce good heaps at the nodes .
The accuracy of this instrument has frequently been tested ; but fresh experiments were made with air , carbon dioxide , and hydrogen , so as to make certain that reasonably reliable results were obtainable .
Of these an account is here given .
To compare these results with those of previous observers , the following numbers A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
correct .
In the wide tube , : : .
Hence the conclusion must be accepted that the ratio of specific heats is practically : 1 .
It will be noticed that this is the theoretical ratio for a monatomic gas , that is , gas in which all energy imparted to it at constant volume is expended in effecting translational motion .
The only other gas of which the ratio of specific heats has been found to fulfil this condition is mercury at a high temperature .
* The extreme importance of these observations will be discussed later .
15 .
Attempts to induce Chemical A great number of attempts were made to induce chemical combination with the argon obtained by use of magnesium , but without any positive result .
In such case as this , however , it is necessary to chronicle negative results , if for no other reason but that of justifying its name , " " argon These will be detailed in order .
Oxygen in Presence of Caustic Alkali .
\mdash ; This need not be further discussed here ; the method of preparing argon is based on its inactivity under such conditions .
( b ) Hydrogen.\mdash ; It has been mentioned that , in order to free argon from excess of oxygen , hydrogen was admitted , and sparks passed to cause combination of hydrogen and oxygen .
Here again caustic alkali was present , and argon appeared to be unaffected .
A sepal.ate experiment was , however , made in absence of water , though no special pains was taken to dry the mixture of gases .
The argon was admitted up to half .
an atmosphere pressure into a bulb , through whose sides passed platinum wires , ) pointed poles of gas-carbon .
Hydrogen was then admitted until atmospheric pressure : had been attained .
Sparks were then passed for four hours by means of a large induction coil , actuated by four storage cells .
The gas was confined in a bulb closed by two stop-cocks , and a small -tube with bulbs was interposed , to act as a gauge , so that if expansion or contraction had taken place , the escape or entry of gas would be observable .
The apparatus , after the passage of sparks , was allowed to cool to the temperature of the atmosphere , and , on opening the stop-cock , the level of water tube remained unaltered.herefore buded tprobability , ombination hccurred ; that ittended wochange oolumewards woist.chlorine.hlorine htored otrong sacid \mdash ; Exactly slmilar experiments were performed with dry , and afterfor the first experiment , and came in contact with dry argon .
Three hours sparking produced no change of volume .
A drop of water was admitted into the bulb .
After a#e$ four hours sparking , the volume of the gas , after cooling , was diminished by about *KlJNDT and WARBURG , ' Pogg .
Ann 157 , p. 353 , 1876 .
A NEW CONSTITUENT OF ATMOSPHERE .
2.33 concluded from this experiment that silicon , eyen while being liberated , is without action on argon .
The action of compounds was then tried ; those chosen were such as lead to oxides or sulphides .
Inasmuch as the platinum-meta]s , which are among the most inert of elements , are attacked by fused caustic soda , its action was investigated .
( h ) Fused Red-hot Caustic \mdash ; The soda was prepared from sodium , in an iron boat , by adding drops of water cautiously to a lump of the meta ] .
When action had ceased , the soda was melted , and the boat introduced into a piece of combustiontube placed in the circuit .
After three hours circulation no contraction had occurred .
Hence caustic soda has no action on argon .
-lime at a red-heat.\mdash ; Thinking that the want of porosity of fused caustic soda might have hindered absorption , a precisely similar experiment was carried out with soda-lime , a mixture which can be heated to bright redness without fusion .
Again no result took place after three hours heating .
( j ) Fused Nitrate was tried under the impression that oxygen plus a base might act where oxygen alone failed .
The nitrate was fused , and kept at a bright red heat for two hours , but again without any diminution in volume of the argon .
( k ) Sodium Peroxide.\mdash ; Yet another attempt was made to induce combination with A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE Fifth : It is in the highest degree improbable that two processes , so diffel.entfi.om each other , should each manufacture the same product .
The explanation is simple if it be granted that these processes merely liminate nitrogen from " " atmospheric nitrogen Sixth : If the newly discovered gas were not in the atmosphere , the discrepancies in the density of\ldquo ; chemical\ldquo ; and ' ' atmospheric\ldquo ; nitrogen would remain unexplained .
Seyenth : It has been shown that pure nitrogen , prepared from its compounds , leaves a negligible residue when caused to enter into combination with oxygen with magnesium .
There are other lines of argument which suggest themselves ; but we think that it will be acknowledged that those given above are sufficient to establish the existence of argon in the atmosphere .
It is practically certain that the argon prepared by means of electric sparking with oxygen is identical with argon prepared by means of magnesium .
The samples have in common :\mdash ; First : Spectra which have been found by Mr. ROOKS , Professor SCHUSTER , and ourselves to be practically identical .
Second : They have approximately the same density .
The density of argon , prepared by means of magnesium , was ; that of argon , from sparking with oxygen , about ; these numbers are practically identical .
Third : Their solubility in water is the same .
That argon is an element , or a mixture of elements , may be inferred from the observations of S 14 .
For CLAUSIUS has shown that if be the energy of translatory motion of the ] ecules of a gas , and their whole kinetic energy , then and denoting as usual the specific heat at constant pressure and at constant volume respectively .
Hence , if , as for mercury vapour and for argon ( S 14 ) , the ratio of specific heats be , it follows that , or that the whole kinetic energy of the gas is accounted by the translatory motion of its molecules .
In the case of mercury the absence of interatomic energy is regarded as proof of the monatomic character of the and the conclusion holds equally good for argon .
The only alternative is to suppose that if argon molecules are di- or polyatomic , the atoms acquire no relative motion , even of rotation , a conclusion improbable in itself and one postulating the sphericity of such complex groups of atoms .
Now a monatomic gas can be only element , or a mixture of elements ; and hence it follows that argon is not of a compound nature .
According to AVOGADRO , equal volumes of gases at the same temperature and pressure , contain equal numbers of molecules .
The molecule of hydrogen gas , the density of which taken as unity , is supposed to consist of two atoms .
Its molecular weight is therefore 2 .
Argon is approximately 20 times as heavy as hydrogen , that is , its molecular weight is 20 times as grea , as that of hydrogen , or 40 .
But its molecule is monatomic , hence its atomic weight , or , if it be a mixture , the mean of the atomic weights of the elements in that mixture , taken for the proportion in which they are present , must be 40 .
This conclusion rests on bhe assumption that all the molecules of argon are monatomic .
The result of the first experiment is , how , so nearly that required by theory , that there is room for only a small number of molecules of a different character .
A study of the expansion of argon by heat is proposed , and would doubtless throw light upon this question .
There is evidence both for and against the hypothesis that argon is a mixture : for , owin to Mr. CROOKES'S observations of the dual character of its spectrum ; against , because of Professor OLSZEWSKI'S statement that it has a definite melting-point , definite boiling-point , and a definite critical temperature and pressure ; and because on compressing the gas in presence of liquid , pressure remains sensibly constant until all gas has condensed to liquid .
The latter experiments are the well-known criteria of a pure substance ; the former is not known with certainty to be character- istic of a mixture .
The conclusions which follow are , however , so startling , that in our future experimental work we shall endeavour to decide the question by other means .
For the present , however , the balance of evidence seems to .
point to simplicity .
We have , therefore , to discuss the relations to other elements of an element of atomic weight 40 .
We inclined for long to the view that argon was possibly one , or more than one , of the elements which might be expected to follow fluorine in the periodic classification of the elements\mdash ; elements which should have an atomic weight between 19 , that of fluorine , and 23 , that of sodium .
But this vie is apparently put out of court by the discovery of the mona omic nature of its molecules .
The series of elements possessing atontic weights near 40 Chlorine 35.5 Potassium 39.1 Calcium .
40.0 Scandium 44.0 .
There can be no doubt that potassium , calcium , and scandium follow legitimately their predecessors in the vertical columl , lithium , beryllium , and boron , and that t , hey are in almost certain relation with rubidium , strontium , and ( but not so certainly ) yttrium .
If argon be a single element , then there is reason to doubt whether the periodic classification of the elements is com let .
whether in fact elements may nob exist which cannot be fitted among those of which it is composed .
On the other hand , if argon be a mixture of two elements the mi ht find lace in the eighth group , one after chlorine and one after bromine .
Assuming 37 ( the ymlg A NEW CONSTITUENT OF THE approximate mean between the atomic weights of chlorine and potassium ) to be the atomic weight of the lighter element , and 40 the mean atomic weight found , and supposing that the second element has an atomic weight between those of bromine , 80 , and rubidium , , viz. , 82 , the mixture should consist of per cent. of the lighter , and per cent. of the heavier element .
But it , appears impl.obable that such a high percentage as of a heavier element should have escaped detection during liquefaction .
If the atomic weight of the lighter element were 38 , instead of 37 , however , the proportion of heavier element would be considerably reduced .
Still , it is difficult to account for its not having been detected , if present .
If it be supposed that argon belongs to the eighth group , then its properties would fit fairly well with what might be anticipated .
For the series , which contains , and might be expected to end with an element of monatomic molecules , of no valency , i.e. , incapable of forming a compound , or if forming one , being an octad ; and it would form a possible transition to potassium , with its monovalence , on the other hand .
Such -ceptions are , however , of a ] ative nature ; yet they may be perhaps excused , if they in any wa .
lead to experiments which tend to throw more light on the anomalies of this curious element .
In conclusion , it need excite no astonishment that argon is so indifferent to reagents .
For mercury , although a monatomic element , forms compounds which are by no means stable at a high temperature in the gaseous state ; and attempts to produce compounds of argon may be likened to to cause combination between mercury gas at so and other elements .
As for the physical condition of argon : that of a gas , we possess no knowledge why carbon , with its low omic weight , should be a solid , while nitrogen is a gas , except in so far as we ascribe molecular complexity to the former and comparative molecular simplicity to the latter .
Argon , with its comparatively low density and its molecular simplicity , might well be expected to rank among the gases .
And its inertness , which has suggested its name , sufficiently explains why it has not previously been discovered as a constituent of compound bodies .
We would suggest for this element , assuming provisionally that it is not a mixture , the symbol A. We have to record our thanks to Messrs. GORDON , KELLAS , and MATTHEWS , especially to Mr. PERCy VILLIAMS , for their assistance in the prosecution of this research .
ADDENDUM ( by Professor W. RAMSAY ) .
March 20 , 1895 .
Further determinations of the density of.argon prepared by means of magnesium have been made .
In each case the argon was circulated over magnesium for at least two hours after absorption of nitrogen had topped , as well as over red-hot copper , copper oxide , soda-lime , and phosphoric anhydride .
The gas also passed out of the mercury gas-holder through phosphoric anhydride into the weighing globe .
The results are in complete accordance with previous determmations of density ; and for convexJience of reference the former numbers are included in the table which follows .
DENSITY of Argon .
The general mean is ; or if Nos. ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) be rejected as suspiciously low , the mean of the remaining four determinations is .
The molecular weight may therefore be taken as without appreciable error .
The value of in the gas-equation has also been determined between and For this purpose , a gas-thermometer was filled with argon , and direct comparison was made with a similar thermometer filled with hydrogen .
The method of using such a hydrogen-thermometer has already been described by RAMSAY and SHIELDS .
For the lowest temperature , the thermometer bulbs were immersed in boiling nitrous oxide ; for atmospheric temperature , in running water ; for temperatures near in steam , and for the remaining temperatures , in the vapours of chlorobenzene , aniline , and olene .
The results are collected in the following tables:\mdash ; Thermometer .
* Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 63 , pp. 835 , 836 .
It is to be noticed that the value of is not involved in using the dro gen-thel'mometer ; its constancy alone is posbulated .
A CONSTITUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
The value of is thus practically constant , and this affords a proof that the four last temperatures have been estimated with considerable accuracy .
A.RGON Thermometer .
Series 1 . .
R. By mischance , air leaked into the ; it was therefore refilled .
Series II . .
A bubble of argon leaked inbo the bnlb , and the value of increased .
Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
495.7 Series III .
Series III .
Series III .
Series III .
2.6717 It may be concluded from these numbers , that argon undergoes no molecular change between \mdash ; 88o and Further determinations of the wave-length of sound in argon have been made , the wider tube having been used .
In every case the argon was as carefully purified as possible .
In experiment ( 3 ) too much lycopodium dust was present in the tube ; that is perhaps the cause of the low result .
For completeness ' sake , the original result in the narrow tube has also been given .
The general mean of these numbers is ; if ( 3 ) be rejected , it is .
In the ] experiment every ution was taken .
The haIf-wave-length in air is the mean of 11 readings , the highest of which was and the lowest They A NEW CONSTTTUENT OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
flask was coupled with a tube full of red-hot copper oxide , intended to oxidise the hydrogen which would be evolved by the action of the hydrochloric acid on the metallic magnesium .
To the end of the copper-oxide tube a gas-holder was attached , so as to collect any evolved and the system was attached to a vacuum-pump , in order to exhaust the apparatus before commencing the experiment , as well as to collect all gas which should be evolved , and remain in the flask .
On admitting hydrochloric acid to the flask of magnesium nitride a violent reaction took place , and fumes of ammonium chloride passed into the tube of copper oxide .
These gave , of course , free nitrogen .
This had not been foreseen ; it would have been well to retain these fumes by plugs of glass-wooL The result of the experiment was that about 200 cub. .
of gas were collected .
After sparking with oxygen in presence of caustic soda , the volume was reduced to 3 cub. centims. of a gas which appeared to be argon .
; DCCCXCV .

