VIII .
An Experiment made at Gresham-College , showing that the seemingly Spontaneous Ascention of Water in Small Tubes open at both ends is the same in Vacuo as in the open Air .
By Mr Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. I Took three pieces of small Tubes of Different bores , and fixed them in a piece of Cork directly Perpeudicular , with their Lower Orifices as nicely even as I could .
The same Cork I likewise fastened to a Wire , which passed through some Collars of Lcather , included in a Box on the Upper Plate of the Receiver ; by which means , I could at pleasure elevate or depress the Tubes without any danger of the Air 's Insinuation .
( See Fig. 4 .
) Thus prepared , and ting 'd Water set on the Plate , the small Tubes ( which never had been wetted ) were drawn to the upper part of the Receiver by the premention 'd Moveable Wire .
Then the Air being withdrawn , the Tubes were caus 'd to descend ( by the same Wire as drew them up ) till their lower ends were plunged just under the surface of the ting 'd Liquid ; where they no sooner were , but the Water rose in each of them a considerable height above its surface in the Glass , and higher in the smaller Tubes than the larger ; and would retain such a quantity as voluntarily arose in them , ( if I may call it so , ) notwithstanding their lower Orifices were drawn out of the Water .
Upon letting in the Air again they continued just the same as in Vacuo I found by plunging Tubes of several sizes in the ting 'd Liquid , that so much of the Liquid would remain suspended in them , when taken out of it , as it would in such Tubes when plunged be Elevated above the surface of the Stagnant fluid : I have likewise since observed , upon bending some small Tubes by the flame of a Candle , in manner of Syphons , that it would require the Orisice of the longer Leg to be at least so far below the surface of the Stagnant Water , as that Water in the same Tube would spontaneously ascend in it , before it would run .
London , Printed for Sam .
Smith and Benj .
Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes 's Arms in St Paul 's

