1871 .
] On a Decennial Variation of Temperature at the Cape .
3811 45 ' and 225 ' or 135 ' and 315 ' .
When the ring is turned so as to place the plane of polarization in any intermediate position between those producing rectilinear and circular light , elliptical light is obtained , on account of the unequal resolution of the ray into its two rectangular components .
Turning the ring of the graduated diaphragm from left to right when : the crystallized film is between the silver plate and the analyzer , occasions the same succession of colours for the same angular rotation as rotating the analyzer from right to left when the instrument is in its normal posi-\#187 ; tion and the film is between the polarizer and the silver plate .
X. To arrange the apparatus for the ordinary experiments of plane-polarized light without the intervention of the silver plate , all that is necessary is to remove the silver plate from the frame F , and to substitute for it a plate of black glass , which must be fixed at the proper polarizing-angle .
To convert it into a Norrenberg 's polarizer , a silvered mirror must be laid horizontal at H , and the instrument straightened , as shown at fig. 3 , so .
that a line perpendicular to the mirror shall correspond with the line of sight .
The silver plate must be removed from the frame F , and a plate of transparent glass substituted for it , which must be so ipclined that the light falling upon it shall be reflected at the polarizing-angle perpendicu- : larly toward the horizontal mirror .
The eye will receive the polarized ray reflected from the mirror ; and the polarized ray will have passed , ' before it reaches the eye , twice through a crystallized plate placed between the mirror and the polarizer .
The result is the same as if , in the ordinary apparatus , the polarized ray had passed through a plate of double the thickness .
Fig. 2 shows the addition to the apparatus when the coloured rings of crystals are to be examined by light circularly or elliptically polarized : a is the optical tube containing the lenses ( which require no particular explanation ) , and b the condenser , over which the plate is to be placed .
II .
" On an approximately Decennial Variation of the Temperature at the Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope between the years 1841 and 1870 , viewed in connexion with the Variation of the Solar Spots .
" By E. J. Stone , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal at the Cape of Good Hope .
In a Letter to the President .
Received February 21 , 1871 .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , Jan. 17,1871 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; I enclose a curve of the variation of the annual mean temperature at the Cape deduced from observations extending from 1841 to 1870 inclusive .
I have carefully examined the zero-points of all the ther390 Mr. E. J. Stone on a Decennial [ Mar. 23 , mometers which have been employed in this series of observations .
I have then deduced the rate of change of these thermometers , from a comparison of the index-errors thus found and those given originally or obtained in 1852 by Sir Thomas Maclear , when he compared the principal thermometers at the Observatory with the readings of a standard " Reg-nault " which had been sent out to the Observatory for that purpose by you .
These indications of change have been carefully checked by all the comparisons made , at different times and for different purposes , of these thermometers inter se and with others which still remain at the Observatory .
From the agreement of the different results thus checked , I have no doubt upon my own mind of the systematic character and sensible amount of the increase of readings of thermometers with age thus indicated .
In some cases the change appears to amount to as much as 0''05 F. per annum .
From these results I have deduced the index-errors of the different thermometers for the different periods , and applied these corrections throughout .
I have also corrected the mean results of the five observations made daily since 1847 in order to deduce the true daily mean .
The results thus reduced on a general system , and extending over thirty years , appeared likely to afford information respecting any connexion which might exist between the mean temperature and the frequency of solar spots .
I have therefore constructed the curves of variation of mean annual temperature , and the inverse curve of solar-spot frequency for comparison .
The latter curve has been founded upon Wolf 's observations .
The observations of temperature from 1841 to 1851 inclusive were made in the original Meteorological Observatory , which was burnt down in 1852 , March 11 .
The observations from 1852 , April 24 , to 1858 , August 31 , were made in a wooden shed erected for the purpose on the site of the old Observatory .
The observations from 1858 , August 31st , to the present time have been made in the crib before the south-west window of the Transit-Circle Room .
These changes are so far unfortunate that there is clearly a change of mean temperature arising from the different circumstances of exposure .
I have therefore referred each set of observations to the mean temperature deduced from all the observations made under the same circumstances ot exposure .
The deviations of the mean temperature for each year from the mean of the whole period of similar exposure are then laid down as ordinates on the scale of one division of the ruled paper to 0 ' 05 F. lo smooth down the irregularities , I have joined the points thus laid down , and bisected the lines thus joining these points whenever the corresponding mean temperatures were deduced from a full year s observations .
In otlur cases the temperatures corresponding to the deficient months have been supplied from the adjoining years , and the resulting mean temperature allowed less weight .
The inverse curve of the frequency of solar spots has been formed by simply subtracting 100 from Wolfs numbers , an 1871 .
] Variation of Temperature at the Cape .
laving down points to the scale of a number 4 to 0''05 F. , or one division of the ruled paper .
The broken curve represents the variations in the mean annual temperature at the Cape ; the continuous line is the inverse curve of solar spots ' frequency .
The agreement between the curves appears to me so close that I cannot but believe that the same cause which leads to an excess of mean annual temperature leads equally to a dissipation of solar spots .
There is on the whole a curious appearance of lagging of the inverse curve of solar spots over that of temperature .
At the maximum about 1856 , however , this does not appear to be the case ; but when the uncertainties of the data , MM .
Wolf and Fritz on Sun-spots .
[ Mar. 23 , both of the solar spots near the minimum , and of the mean temperature also , are taken into account , such discrepancies might perhaps fairly be expected , even if there be a physical connexion between the two phenomena as results of some common cause .
If there be a sensible inequality in the mean temperature with a period of about ten years , then the mean temperature resulting from the observations in the temporary Observatory , which were made near a maximum , will be too high .
The corresponding ordinates , therefore , will be depressed too much relatively to those corresponding to observations made in the other two observatories .
In the curve 2,1 have imperfectly corrected the mean of the results for the temporary observatory on the supposition of such an inequality existing .
The only result of such a correction is to modify the curve at the points of junction of the observations made in different positions .
The general form is unaltered .
It should be mentioned that the point about which the curves appear to differ most is near or at the change of exposure from the original observatory to the temporary shed , about 1852 .
I may mention that I had not the slightest expectation , on first laying down the curves , of any sensible agreement resulting , but that I now consider the agreement too close to be a matter of chance .
I should , however , rather lean to the opinion that the connexion between the variation of mean temperature and the appearance of solar spots is indirect rather than direct , that each results from some general change of solar energy .
I have forwarded these curves to you , knowing the great interest you have ever taken in such inquiries , and on account of your being the chief promoter of the establishment of a Meteorological Observatory here .
The problems of meteorology appear to be presented here in a simpler form than in England ; and probably systematic photographic self-registering observations extended over a few years might lead to important results .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Yours obediently , E. J. Stone .
Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , P.R.S. , fyc .
III .
Resume of two Papers on Sun-spots :\#151 ; On the Form of the Sun-spot Curve , " by Prof. Wolf ; and " On the Connexion of Sun-spots with Planetary Configuration , " by M. Fritz .
By B. Loewy .
Communicated by Warren De La Hue , F.R.S. , and B. Stewart , F.R.S. Of these two series of investigations , one is by Professor Wolf , the other by M. Fritz , communicated to Wolf .
In the first , Prof. Wolf has proposed to himself to find the mean character of the curve of sun-spots , i.e. its real form from one minimum to another .
He investigates the form only for 2| years before , and 2i years

