2 .
That in all cases of combustion , out of the body and in the body , i ' ammonia be present , it will be converted partly into nitric acid .
3 .
That the nitrogen of the air is not indifferent in ordinary cases of combustion , but that it gives rise to minute quantities of nitric acid .
He further remarks , that the production of nitric acid from ammonia in the body adds another to th6 many instances of the action of oxygen in man ; and that the detection of nitric acid in the urine may lead to the conclusion , that the blood is being freed from ammonia , or from substances closely related to it , as urea , or possibly caffein and other alkaloids .
2 .
" Description of a Muscle of the striped variety , situated at the posterior part of the choroid coat of the Eye in Mamlmals , with an explanation of its mode of action in adapting the Eye to distinct vision at different distances .
" By George Rainey , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Joseph H. Green , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 24 , 1850 .
Respecting this muscle , the author observes that it occupies about the posterior two-thirds of the choroid coat , its fibres lying in different planes , the most superficial being immediately beneath the membrana pigmenti , the deepest extending almost as far as the vasa vorticosa ; that these fibres pass in different directions , some going from before to behind , and others intersecting these at various angles : altogether they receive the pigment membrane , the retina and the vitreous humour as into a cup .
From the connection of these fibres with the choroid coat , the author calls them the choroid muscle .
He has not been able to trace them nearer to the ciliary ligament than about two-thirds of the distance from the centre of the choroid to the border of the cornea , in which situation the fasciculi become broken up , and gradually degenerate into filamentous tissue .
No striped fibres can be detected in the so-called ciliary muscle or ligament .
These the author considers to be merely for the purpose of connecting the sclerotic and choroid anteriorly , as these tunics are also connected by cellular tissue posteriorly , but very loosely in their middle .
The author next describes the manner in which these fibres may be most easily displayed , and , as the sheep 's eye answers best for this purpose , his description is given in reference to it .
The posterior two-thirds of the eye of the sheep being turned inside out , and all the retina washed away , a very thin portion of the tapetum is raised and floated upon a glass slide , and a thin glass cover is then placed upon it , without making the least pressure , which would , by crushing the very soft primary fasciculi , render the transverse strie irregular and confused .
If in this state it be examined by the microscope , the muscular fibres , in consequence of their transparency , and being covered by the membrana pigmenti , and some of the iridescent fibres of the tapetum , will be very indistinct and scarcely distinguislable ; but if a small portion of acetic acid , or some aqueous solution of chlorine , be brought in contact with it , the membrana pigmenti , and especially the iridescent fibres , will instantly shrink , and , becoming transparent , disappear , and the faseiculi of the choroid musscle will come into view .
Slhoild the acetic acid have been too strong , the transverse marking will be very faint and scarcely discernible ; but if the acid be washed away with water , or , what is better , a weak solution of ain saline substance , such as chloride of potassium or sodium , iodide of potassium , &amp;c. , the transverse marking will become very distinct ; should the solution be strong , the colour of the iridescent fibres will be reproduced .
In the eye of those animals whose tapetlu is scaly , as in the Cat , or where the whole of the choroid is lined by black pigment , as in the human subject , the acetic acid is of no use , and the muscle is displayed with much greater difficulty ; the author , however , states that he has succeeded in displaying this muscle in the choroid of the Horse , the Cat , and in that of the human eye* .
The author next considers the action of the choroid muscle .
This , from the manner in which the muscle embraces the vitreous humnour , is , in his opinion , to compress this humour and carry the lens forwards .
But this , he observes , considering iow the capsule of the lens and the ciliary processes fill up the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour , cannot be effected without displacing some of the fluid in that chamber ; and he concludes that the aqueous humour in the posterior chalmber being pressed by the capsule of the lens ( forced forwards by the action of the choroid muscle ) against the ciliary processes , forces the blood out of tleir vessels into the choroid veins , and thus enlarges this cllamber at its circumference , whilst .
it dimiinishes it from behind forwards , or , in other words , moves the lens forwards .
The author then observes , that , as the effect of the action of the choroid muscle is to separate the choroid coat from the sclerotic , all pressure is taken off the choroid veins at the time it is made upon the ciliary processes , and therefore that 2b every facility possible is afforded for the emptying of the vessels of these processes .
He hence infers that the office of these processes is to allow of the displacement of fluid when the lens is carried forwards ; and when the choroid muscle ceases to act , by the re-distension of their capillaries , to carry the lens back into its place .
The author then enters into a mathematical examination of the data furnished by these facts , to show how exactly they fulfil the conditions necessary for adapting the eye , viewed as an optical instrument , to distinct vision at different distances .
The author considers that there is no analogy either in structure or function between those fibres in mammals occupying a situation similar to that occupied by a true muscle in Birds ( the ciliary muscle ) , but that the true analogue of the ciliary muscle in birds is the choroid muscle in mammals , the chief difference between them being in situation , In the Pigeon , he finds that the ciliary muscle is inserted into the choroid coat , along which it can be traced as far back as about 8th of an inch behind the iris , so that its action would be to draw the choroid tense upon the vitreous humour , and thus to compress it similarly to the choroid muscle in the mammal .
Besides , in the Bird he finds no muscular fibres at the posterior part of the choroid .
The ciliary muscle is more distinct , and appears to be stronger than the choroid , but this the author attributes to the fibres of the one being much more collected , and therefore limited to a much smaller space than those of the other .

