]\gt ; .
JOSEPH LISTER , , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A Lisb of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced thab he had appointed dents\mdash ; The Clifton .
Mr. ThiseJton Dr. The following Papers wers read:\mdash ; I. " " On Professor of the Electrometer By J. .
Communicated by Professor BURI ) , F.R.S. II .
" " Attempt to doturmint ' the Adiabatic tions of Oxide By .
P. , W. RAIISAI , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and J. Ro , , B. Sc. III .
" " The Chemical and 1{eactions of cerlain -nthcsised Proteid-like Snbstances.\mdash ; Preliminary tion By W. , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) .
Communicated by Professor HALLIBUP .
, F.R.S. .
" " An Experimental lation into the of the Blastoderm of the Chick By RICHAUD ASSHI .
Communicated by ) WJCK , F.R.S. " " On Professor Hermann 's Theory of tho Pillary Electrometer By GEORGE J. BURCH , M.A. Communicated by Professor BURDON SANDERSON , F.R. .
Received July 21 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , I have received , by the courtcsy of Professor Hermanu , a copy of paper*on " " Das Capillar-Electrometel .
und die Actionsstrome des * Archiv die Ges .
iologic , ' vol. 63 , p. Mr. G. J. Burch .
On lIor , kels , \ldquo ; in which discusses the analyses of certain electl.ometer curves variation described by Professor Burdon Sanderson .
* His first statement demands an explanation on my part .
He says , ' ' Bevo ich auf Sanderson 's Versuche und Schlusse eingehe , mochte ich zeigen ( iass der von Burch und von oven aufgestellte , das CapiIlar-Electrometer betreffende Satz , welcher der Construction zu Grunde liegt , auch aus meiner Theory des Instruments unmittelbar folgt , was beide Autoren , obwohl sie meine Arbeit erwahnen , nicht bemerkt haben .
Da beide ihren Satz empirisch gewonnen haben , so kann derselbe als eine schone Besffitigung meiner Theory achtet werden As a matter of fact , I did llob know of ofessor Hermann 's papel until after I had formed my own theory .
In my second paper on the subject I mentioned hat it had .
been treated by him , " " mainly from a mathematical standpoint and implied that , in my opioion , his data were insufficient .
I still think so , and cannot admit that my experimentaJ results prove the correctness of his That a mathematical for.mula , based upon a certain hypothesis , should agree with facts may be strong evidence in its your , but is not a proof of the SOtJ ndness of the hypothesis .
For instance , the equation ma represent the discharge of a Leyden jar through a cir-uib of no inductance , or the swing of a pendulum in treacle .
it happens to } ) also the expression for the time-relations of the capillary electrometel does not of itself imply that the same causes are at work in all three cases , bnt simply that the forces concel.ned are so related fhat the movement is dead-beat .
Professor Hermann , starting from Lippmann 's polarisation theory , assumes simplest conceivable ation between the rate of polarisation and the acting P.D. , Ilamely , that they are proportional to one another .
Pntting intensity of the current , and amount of polarisation at time , he in which is an instrumental constant .
Writing for an romotive Lorceg , may be consbant or variable , and for nce of the circuit , he arrives at the differcntial eqnation .
*'Jomnal of Physiology , ' vol. 18 , " " Time-Relations of the Electrometel p- Phil. Trans , vol. 183 , p. 81 , 1892 .
of the El ) .3,31 position in relation to the p dilferent .
anted to make pillary electrometer from the description glve in Lippmann 's Theses .
In ordel to get better results .
.determined by actual experiment what the conditions of eness and rapidity , and in doing this found out so much about the Instrumenb that the " " fachste denkbare Annahmc l.efel.red to Hermann , would not ve ) luended itself to My paper on the " " Time-Relatious of the Capillary cctrometer \ldquo ; was a condensed account of a small tOtl of done by me .
ious roasons I did not then entel into my as to the of the instrulllent , and will iIle myscl to a statement of them , be regarded as prcliminary .
Professol Hermatlu [ ) of my been obtained .
I demur to that as ) to misconstruction .
1Iy nlayightly be , since it torms of th coml ) ] , which I ve found to neutralise each other in a cted iustrument , but my theory of the relatiollS of the ) ometer 1 unded upon and by cxpGl.iments .
poiut fact that in the ometer { mechanic effect is luced by an electrical cause .
But are scveral betwcen tho effccb , and a stl.ong prob bility t each ] of a time-function .
The are in tl tCtlc :\mdash ; ishme.hich imicV betw.arity aanCO O And OYing a of merc against forco of gravity varving ) a mount fluid in the tube ) .
Poiseuille owed in 1846 that the flo of a liquid through capillal.y tubc varies ectly a the pressure .
Of this I was not till later , but it leads to precisely the same tion as that adopted by Hermann .
Writing .
the quantity of icity , for the constant of capillarity , for polarisation , the donc , the s.ymbolical expression of the problem is\mdash ; . .
G. J. Burch .
On Professor 's Hermann has passed over , and omitted to bake into count , contining to the theoretical relation between and But we know very little about polarisation , say in the case of solid electrodes .
The term polarisation , as frequently used , two , which ought to be kept distinct , .
:\mdash ; ( a ) condition of the interface between two co1lductors , of one at least is an electrolyte , in which the molecules are under a stress not greater than they are capable of supporting without chemical change .
( b ) A deposit upon surface of a solid , or in the contiguous liquid , of the products of actual electlolysis .
If one of the conducbors is , solid , inevitable local differences of condition or of composition enable actual electrolysis to take place , even with a P.D. smaller than that proper to the chemical change implied .
But if both conductors are and perfectly pure , the is so far equahsed that no electrolysis is possible until the E.M.F. reaches a certain value , more sharply delined in proportion as the materials are pure .
I hold that with differences of potentia ] which do not reach this limit , the electromotive force is transmuted without electrolysis into mechanical force , and manifests itself as kinetic energy , until by the motion of the meniscus it becomes ansformed into potential emergy .
The locus of transformation from electl.icalto mechanical force must clearly be the two interfaces mercury-acid and acid-merctlry , and it is upon these that the stress acts .
The resistance is distributed along the tube , and is partly electric.al , but to a far larger extent mecbanical .
Is it reasonable , therefore , to assnme that the sole cause of delay is the " " Polarisations-geschwindigkeit " " of the meniscus I believe that in the case of an interface between two liquids , the rate of polarisation is to be measured in terms the vibration-period of a molecule , rather than in decimals of a second .
Actual electrolysis is another matter , and I hold that it does not take place in a properly working electrometer .
We do not assume electrolysis when two pith balls repel each other after receiving a charge , nor when a closed c , oil is ipped over a magnet .
Bnt the coil cannot be got off again , can the balls fall together witho the generation somewhere of a current .
I cannot see why we should assume electrolysis in the case of the capillary electrometer .
The marvellous rapidity of the action to which I have not yet found a limit , is against it , as is also the fact that the substitution for the acid , or the addition to it , of any substance which oan be electrolysed by a smaller electromotive force , reduces the range of potential difference for which it can be used .
The of even a trace of impUl.ity is tifested by tbc locking of the pillary , and if this block is by electrolysls , the instrument behaves for some time an bnormal way .
It signs of a residual , like that of .
Lcyden ] , tbc rising after the short-Cll.cuiting key is opened , instead of simply to fall .
This I ascl.ibe to ] arisation of the met with ) etweell solids and electrolytes , to this the tcrm " " keit\ldquo ; would applicable .
But ometer w show it exccpt with ) reater than to be held from the hrst apillary electrometel ( rlct{ into .
any this is possible at the two liquids ' do not diffuse each othelhc stl.essl evenl.y stribul ed that no one molecule call be stl.allled to a iiciGIlt to detacl ] any of it ulltil the stl.css is to all But if by this condition maintain that it must he ement , musb be doveIn ordel to ol oduced 1 ) { he motion the mCIliSCnS 1romete is acted upon lectl.omotive f the time to , tho ent of rofessor Hernlann puts his into a sonllcwhtit ( liffercnt namely : and ] is esented as a t'unction of the time .
ut this is simply my own for the estinlation the expl'essed as a equation .
is , in polar cul.ves taken with my machine , he subnormal , is identical hence is identical .
volt , which being igi es Nlr .
G. J. .
On ofessor Hermann finds the complete itive of this differential equation , and then , introducing val.ious values of and he function , , by a which is indeed ious , the the responding excursions .
My own method gives a good deal of the information so obtained in a much simpler manner .
dopting the letlers used by him .
when es we that is to say , the E.M.F. falls to the reduced values of the subnormal and the radius vector equa ] , but of and the curve , therefore , can nevsr comc back to the zero line undcl action of a current which puIsates but does not alternate ( see figs. 2 alJd in paper ) .
When mcniscus Cl'osses the zero line , , and , , the impressed E.M.F. is thelt directly proportiollal to the subnormai .
This invves the further fact that the .
of the zsro line by the meniscns must always the of sign of the E.M.F. If vanishes , as ib does at the apex of a spikc the bottom of notch , the stantaneous value of the impressed E.M.F. is directly proportional to the distanco of the meniscus from zero .
The curves drawn ) Professol Hermann are for the most part , so far as the eye can to -hose obta , enable under like conditi with the capillary electrometer .
I have photographed and nnalysed .
rheotomes altd dynamos of kinds , both direct , as sources of E.M.F. I have proposed , in a paper which l1as been in the publisher 's hands since November , that this method old be used to detcrmine the current curves of dynamos .
* All the confnsingi inni of the lag when such analysed\mdash ; there is no need to trouble about the equation to the curve , since each several of its difforential equation any given point is found at once by my mode of analysis .
But I must point cut an error has rrept into Professor Hermann 's rendering of curve given in fig. , rather , as it only pretends to be an tfproximation , that it is not equally oughout .
The tion , which corresponds to a diminishing negative ( below zero ) potential is epresented as rising with increasing velocity insLead of falling more slowly , as it should do .
Yet , when this negative potential ceases , the curve commences to fall from to aIong the logarithmic curve of discharge .
This is impossible .
When is negative , the ebraic sllm of and ?
must be negative also if the fundamental equation holds good .
ProbabIy the line has been placed too far to the right .
* ' The Elect]ician , ' July 17 , 1896 , et seq. .
Hermann questions the ccuracy of my method of analy-sis lvhen ap to curves .
is I do not employ it in snch cnscs , .
to take photographs of sudden nges upon plates suflicient lapidity to develope the curves .
Thus in ofessor Burdon papc on Plate 1 , and , 4 , , on PIate 3 , lYerc ended to sho the ] a of certain ) enomena .
I did not analyse them , but simply sured tl times of the minima .
The curves , and 6 .
Plate 1 , on Plato 2 , and on Plate all suittible for the exception of the first , which is almost too stccp .
I ] done some fbit .
tie or forty of this kind .
As regards the furthel criticisms , so as the inltclprctation of the cves is , I only say that coses did occur in which the maximum .
of the secolld pbasc exceeded ) E.II .
F. of the ative ) phasc of tho same response , With resl'ect to CUl'ves , ] those in and 4 , Plate II , the to by ofessol .
as the " " hump is not rely the curve of .
hich I show a rise of the mellisclls after rapid downw movcment has ( ' it stfll ' line , and a similar rise is visible to the one of the " " spikcs " " , 2 , photovith the chine more It is impossible for the lnerculy , thosc conditions , after approaching the zero , to ecede f crossing it , except under the influence of egatire AP .
D. That is to , the Impressed E.II .
F. must be of ) as in the umenr , but nlost be of ence .
some 1legatives this secolld ill followed by descent more apid than that of the of charge , flIld tefore i. a small positive .
I first noticed and called attention to ib ill connection with the curves my the Tinlc llelations of the Capillary Electrometer , " " but refrnined from discusits nificance .
of iology , , n- 11 ' Phil. Trans , 1 ol .
183 , p. 104 .

