]\gt ; 1903 .
] of Iincs cfrnm of " " On a New Series of Lines in of \ldquo ; By A. , A.RC .
Sc. , , Assistant Professor of Physics , Royal College of cieuce , South .
Communicated by H. L. eceived March 9 , \mdash ; March 26 , 1903 .
Although the spectrum of ncsium has been the subject of many investigations , certain lines which occnr in the arc spectrum appear to have hitherto escaped notice .
The lines in question are comparatively feeble , but on account of their theoretical interest it seems desirable to draw attention to them .
new lines their rance in the spectrum the arc is made to pass between poles consisting of rods , but they do not always appear with intensity .
They are nebulous , especially on their less ible sides , so that their positions cannot be determined with accuracy ) but as nearly as they can be ascertained with the tlments my disposal , the -lengths are ( in air ) , , and A mere inspection of the gests that these lines coustitute a regular series , associated with the much stronger series lescribed by Rydberg* , having -Icngths , and , according to the measures of Kayser and Rung .
This Yie seems to ) lfficiently confirrned by calculation .
Rydberg found that neither general formula nor that of Kayser and unge could be sufficient to the stronger series , and employed combination of the formtllae , namely , 1 ) ' is the oscillation frequency , the values 3 , 4 , 5 , \amp ; c. , , and are constants to ) determined from elonging to the series .
For the series , the eqnation calculated by Rydberg is ' being the oscillation frequency } the values 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 for the six lines ) Using the same formula for the new series , and ting the constants from the four lines , the equencics in af .
Akn ' 1893 , blockl}ohn .
420 Scrics of Lines the .
[ Mar. 9 , Another formula which be conveniently employed is This formula ives for tlJe two magnesium sel.ics the equations : New series , ' the oscillation frequency in each case .
It will Le seen that the oo1lvergencc frequency of the new series is as equaI to that of the Rydberg ies as can expected with the rough wave-lengths employed , and it may be added that in each case the constant is of unusnal .
These , in conjunction with the characters and relative intensities of the lines , render it highly probable that the new scries associated with the series second itlld first series respectively .
Applying the formula to the of the members of the new series for hich , the corresponding wave-lengths in air are and .
The first is probably reprcsented by a an approximate , which is not so observed in the raphs as the others , because the plates employed are comparatively slow for this part of the spectrum , and if the exposure be le ngthened , the banded spectrum of nesium becomes stro1lg enough to almost mask the line .
The live is too far in the red to be convenicntl ) served , seeing that it is feeble and not well defined .
It may be reasonably concIuded the arc spectrum of magnesium includes two subordi1late series of single lines in adchtion h0 the two well-known subordinate scries of triplets .
No such combination of series appears to hnve been previously noted in the spectrum of a metal , but two sets of series , each set coYlsisting of a principal and two subordinate series , are in the spectra of helium and oxygen .
The author desires to express his ) ligations to Mr. Herbert Shaw for valuable assistance in making the computations involved in investigating the various formula } which have been suggested for selies , as applied to the serics which forms the bject of the present paper .
*After much , his fornlula was ived at .
Herbert } and the uthor as one giving the most isbent results for series in genel .
, but it was found that a similar , expressed in already been employed by Mr. Rummel .
Soc. Victoria Proc vol. 10 , Part I , 1897 , p. 75 ) .

