]\gt ; Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 5 , , 8010 ; 1230 .
" " Studies on Enzyme Action .
II.\mdash ; The Rate of the Change , conditioned by Sucroclastic Enzymes , and its Bearing on the Law of Mass Action By EDWARD FRANKLAND Ph. D. , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemical Department City and Guilds of London Institute , Central Tecbnical College .
Communicated by Professor H. .
ARMSTmONG , . .
Received April o , \mdash ; Read Apri128 , 1904 .
of enzymes .
lS20 Milk and maltose , hydrolvsis by ) zymes .
8010 Emulsin , lactase , maltase\mdash ; kinetics of their action .
Although it is now universally recognised that enzymes play a most important part in animal and plant metabolism and that they even condition synthetic changes , most of the work done has been of qualitative ; in only a few cases has the nature of the action been precisely determined\mdash ; and the arrived at in these fewcases , if not discrepant , cannot easily be harmonised at first sight .
C. O'Sullivan and Tompson were the first to study the action of enzymes quantitatively .
They came to the conclusion that the action of invertase on cane sugar takes.place in accordance with the ordinarytheory of mass action , a theory which involves the assumption that , throughout an interaction , the amount of change taking place in given interval of time is always the same proportion of the material remaining unchanged\mdash ; so that the course of change is expressible by logarithmic curve .
DuclauxS subsequently contended .
that the rate of change during the early period is directly proportionaI to the time , although afterwards , under the influence of the products of hydrolysis , it follows the logarithmic law .
If this suggestion that the action follows the law Index supplied by communicator , classified according to the schedule of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature .
] [ Attention was directed by me in 1890 to the fac that ' : the terms amylolytic , proteolytic , etc. , to the student ) has lear1lt that electrolysis signifies splitting up by means of electrioity and splitting up by means of water\mdash ; not the splitting up of electricity or of ater.\ldquo ; ( ' ' The Terminology of Hydrolysis , especially as affected b7 Ferments 'Chem .
Soo .
Trans 1890 , p. 528 .
) Unfortunately such tel.ms are still genel.ally used .
To avoid difflculty , I wouId suggest that enzymes should be spoken of as sucroclastic , .
glucosidoclastic , amyloclastic , proteoclastic , lipoclastic , etc. , according they condition the hydrolysis of disaccharides , glucosides , starch , proteids , fats , etc.\mdash ; H. E. A. ] 'Chem .
Soc. ' 1890 , vol. 57 , p. 843 .
S 'Ann .
Inst. Pasteur , ' 1898 , vol. 12 , p. 96 .
1904 .
] on only when it is modified by the prodncts of change be accepted , it follows that the interaction does not tnke at time in accordance with the law of mass action .
Somewhat later , an borate investigation of the lction of enzymes was carried out by Victor Heuri , work mlmarised in his 'Lois generals des diastases , ' Paris , Henri that the velocity coefficient , calculated 011 the that the nrithmic law was applicable , steadily increased valne as the n , ction proceeded .
He attributed the increase to the influence of the products of change and took these into acconnt by in place of in the equation of mass , which thus becomes .
This expression derived from Ostwald 's ' Lehrbuch .
It may be pointed out that it is there put forward to of change in whioh the products may be assnmed to accel inflnence , and that , as a matter of fact , it is the equatio1l to a curve showing a change in direction corresponding to risc to maximtlm velocity and a subsequent ] in the rate .
Henri deduced from his results the value for , so that tlJe equation became In 1902 , Adrian besides arl.iving at the conclusion that hydrolysis is effected at a more rate han is indicated by the law of mass action , also showed that on arying the concentration an approximately const t\mdash ; not the of mass action requires a constant tion\mdash ; of sugar is hydrolysed in a given time .
It is necessary to bettr in mind , however , that in his experiments , the proportion of the total sugar } ) ydrolysed in no case exceeded one-fifth , so that in reality the comparison was made only during the earlier stage of the hydrolysis .
To explain the remarkable result to which he was led , Browu assnmed that not only is a compound of enzyme and formed but that this persists a really appreciable interval of : consequently a molecule of enzyme can effect only limited of let m changes in unit time ; whatever the ) may be , no increase in the amount of changed is possible .
On the other hand , dilute solutions in which the proportion of sugar to enzyme below a certain maximum , the mouIlt of hydrolysed shonld bc directly proportio1lal to the amou)ltnd this AdriaIl Brown proved to be the case .
* 2nd dition , vol. 2 , p. 264 .
'Chem .
Soc. Trans vol. 81 , } ) .
1904 .
] on ; of maltose .
E. Fischer and the author had meanwhile shown that the enzymes lactase and emulsin both acted reversibly .
English workers appear to have overlooked the work done by Tamman in 1892 , who studied with great care the action of emuIsin on the two glucosides salicin and amygdalin , as well as that of invertase on cane sugar .
He came to the conclusion- that the rate of change was retarded by the products of degradation but could detect no sign of reversion ; he even went so far as to express the opinion that enzymes did not act reversibly .
He insisted , however , that their action was incomplete .
In dealing with problems of enzyme action , the probability that the extract used contains several enzymes cannot be lost sight of , since it is known that in yeast extract , for example , at least three sucroclastic enzymes are present together with a proteoclast in amounts which vary in different yeasts .
It is at least conceivable that , in those cases in which reversion has been observed , the hydrolysis is conditioned by one enzyme and the synthesis by another .
It will be obvious , therefore , that the field for investigation is a very wide one and that our knowledge of enzymes is of a most incomplete and unsatisfactory character .
The present communication deals with the problem of the rate at which change proceeds during the earlier period , when the products of hydrolysis are present in relatively small proportions .
The results obtained not only the extension to enzymes generally of the view put forward by Horace Brown and Glendinning in explanation of the action of diastase and invertase , but also make it possible to explain cases in which the departure from the law of mass action is in a direction contr that considered by these authors ; the influence exercised by the product , of change , which was 1lot taken into accou1lt by them , will be considered .
The action of acids is compared with that of enzymes in a separate com1nunication .
Preparation of .\mdash ; The enzymes considered are lactase , emulsin and maltase ; the first two of these both condition the hydrolysis of milk sugar but the only maltose .
Unfortunately no way has been devised hitherto of wor.king with a knowIl amount of enzyme ; the nearest approach a satisfactory method is to prepare a fresh extract for each series of experiments under conditions as nearly uniform as possible .
Far too little care is sometimes given to this operation , the importance of working rapidly and at a suitable temperature being commonly neglected .
The following is a description of the methods adopted in the experime1lts referred to in this communication .
Lactase.\mdash ; Ten mmes of Kephir were very vigorously .
, .
271 .
until a clear liquid was obt ined .
The extract thus prepared was a clear yellow liquid : as changes took place in it on standing , it was used without delay .
It is probable that nearly saturated solution of the en zyme is obtained by operating in the manner scribed , as the residue is still very active ; thus on ting it for a further period of 24 hours with 200 , an ract obtained of about one-fourth the activity of the first .
The unfiltered milky extract is much more active than the filtered , probably because it contains some enzyme in suspension ; it may also be mentioned that repeated filtration seems to diminish the even of the clear liquid .
laetase prepared by the ordinary methods , involving precipitation and subsequent lvith alcohol , possesses some power of inducing the hydrolysis of milk sugar , it is only feebly active in comparison extract prepared as above described .
The follo ving figures , showing the parts per hundred of sugar hydrolysed during the intervals tted in 50 .
of a 5 per cenb .
solution of milk , may be quoted in illustration:\mdash ; Solution .
filtered 16 20 .
unfiltered extract 15 38 80 , .
, , , , 29 57 86 , Kephir residues 17 45 74 As the extract affects cane sugar , it may be supposed that it contains invertase as well as lactase ; there is reason to believe that one or more proteoclasts are present .
\mdash ; The extract prepared merely grinding up with water , in presence of toluene at about , yeast which had been dried as rapidly as possible\mdash ; by spreading it in a thin layer on biscuit ware and exposing it to the atmosphere ; the clear filtrate was used .
xperience seems to show that the activity of such an extract depends on the temperature at which it is made and that different yeasts require to be extracted at diflerent temperatures .
Toluene has been used as an antiseptic hout the experiments , as it was found not to influence the activity of the , whereas chloroform had a distinctly retarding effect .
Rough experiments made to ascertain the temperature at which lactase exercises its maximum activity show this to be about : * Chem. News , ' 1902 vol. 86 , p. 280 .
1904 .
] Studies on me Aclion .
Studies on me Aclion .
although the extract is still very active at , above the activity begins to lessen .
The experiments with ctase and smulsin were made at , those with maltase at aboub .
In making the experiments , a mixture in the desired proportions of the solution of the sugar and of the enzyme , in a closed , was kept at a known temperature in an incubator ; samples were withdrawn from time to time : these vere diluted so thnt they contained per cent. of sugar and their cupric-reducing power was then determined by the modification of Pavy 's method described by Croft Hill .
A simple calculation gave the proportion in which monosaccharide and disaccharide were present .
It be claimed that the results are comparable ; probably they are affected by error amounting to at least from 1 to 2 psr cent. when the amount of hydrolysed does not exceed about 70 per cent. The proportion or weight of disaccharide hydrolysed during successive intervals been determined , the restllts .
plotted graphically ; the coefficient of velocity was also calcnlated for each result , on the assumption that the rate of change was proportional to the amount of hydrolyte which goes change .
The actions of lactase and emulsin on milk sugar of maltase on maltose have been studied in the manner described , using solutions containing 2 , 5 and 10 grammes of the disaccharide in 100 .
Typical series of results selected from a large number of a similar character are quoted in the following tables .
In these , is time from the commcncement of the experimeltt , the percentage of substance hydrolysed and the velocity coefficient calculated from the equation Lactase.\mdash ; On contrasting the results given in the two tables it will at once be obvious character of the change dependent on the proportion which the enzyme present to the sugar .
When , as in the case of Experiment I , the proportion of enzyme is relatively large , falls throughout the whole period of change ; whereas , when the proportion of colslderably reduced , equal amomlts of sugar are changed in successlve equal intervals of time until bout 1 per cent. has been hydlolysed , the value of at first but afterwards fnlling rapidly as in the previous case .
Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
' [ Apr. 2 yrarnmes Jfilk Sugar per 100 Table I. Table II .
100 .
Enzyme xtract . .
Enzyme Extract .
hr .
The same result is brought out in Tables III and IV , which apply to somewhat more ated solutions of milk sugar .
5 grammes Milk Sugar per 100 Table III .
Table IV .
100 .
Enzyme Extract .
20 .
Enzyme Extract . .
K. hr .
hr .
That similar results are obtained on working with different materials at different times is shown in Tables and VI , which refer to experiments made at times 4 months apart .
10 grammes Milk Sugar per 100 Table .
Table Enzyme Extracts . .
K. hr .
hr .
' 1904 .
] Studies on nulsin.\mdash ; Tables VII\mdash ; X refer to experiments made with emulsin the conclusions to be drawn from them are precisely similar to those deduced from the experiments with lactase .
It is to be noted that emulsin acts much less rapidly than lactase .
2 grammes Milk per 100 Table .
Table VIII .
gramme EmuIsin .
gramme EmuIsin . .
K. , , 23 , , 5 grammes Milk per 100 Table IX .
Table X. gramme Emulsin .
gramme mulsin . .
K. hr .
hr .
Maltase.\mdash ; Tables XI and XII refer to experiments with maltase and maltose and show that here again the same concIusions hold .
decreases steadily : when proportion of enzyme is small the change is at first linear .
It is of interest as confirming these results that when is calculatod from the value given in Croft Hill 's tables* a similar series of values is obtained .
' Chem. Soc. 1898 , p. 634 .
Table XI .
IsIalbose , 5 per Concenfmhon of \mdash ; AJthough the experiments recorded in I\mdash ; XII furIlish evidence that the rate of decreases as the concentration of the sugar solution is increased , while the actual of sugar olysed increases ; as the experiments were made at diffel'ent times and with different materials , it was nscessary to out a strictly comparable series in which the amount of sugar present was the only factor varied .
Table XIII shows the results ained in experiments with relatively concentrated solutions of milk sugar and lactase in which the amount of enzyme present was quite .
As the concentration of sugar was increased , the rate of change diminished so that the fraction of sugar hydrolysed in a iven time was proportional to the amount of sugar present\mdash ; so that a of was changed independently of the conresult ) is agreement with A Brown 's obser vations with Table XIII.\mdash ; Amount of Sugar Hydrolysed .
relates to a series of experiments made with emulsin and milk sugar in which , however , the proportion of emuIsin taken was not particularly small .
Although the rate of change decreased as the concentration increased , the experiments afforded no evidence that a constant weight of sugar was hydrolysed in a given time independently of the concentration .
a second series , however , in which a considerably smaller proportion of enzyme ( see Table used , 904 .
] Strtdies on } .
509 was found that an tely constanC of sugar was drolysed whatever the concentrntion of the sugar .
The conclusions perin ) ents recorded the thres preceding tables apply to the solutions which the proportion of enzynlo esent very olutlons , on the other hand , quite another effect is produced by the concentration .
Table to exlJoriments n the portion of enzyme present to of .
It will be seen that on inc easing tmonnt of prcsent ere was a proportionate increase in nnlount the proportion well as value of constant , a result in agrcement ) of mitss ou I ld be mentioned , however , the tifrtttiou iu these experiments is somewhat , owing to the Ilce of the proteids on the determination of the end Milk ) Amount 100 .
in 3 approximately proportional to the amount of enzyme , provided that the amount was not too large and also that the comparison was made during the earlier stages of hydrolysis before the products began to exert a marked influence .
Table XVII .
Proportions Hydrolysed in 100 .
of a 5 per cent. Solution .
Very small quantities of the enzymes lactase and emulsin were found to be capable of hydrolysing only a small amoum of sugar : their action then ceased .
This result affords very definite evidence in favour of the view that the products of hydrolysis\mdash ; in this case glucose and galactose\mdash ; are capable of combining with enzymes and of removing them from the sphere of action .
Table XyIII.\mdash ; Proportions Hydrolysed in 100 .
of a 5 per cent. Solution .
Summary and Discussion of Besults\mdash ; Nature of Enzyme From the resuIts recorded in the foregoing tables , it is dear that two periods may be distinguished in the course of change\mdash ; an earlier period , during which the change is a linear function of the and a later period , during which change proceeds at another rate ( Tables 1904 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
II , IV , , XI .
The duration of these periods is conditioned by the relation which the amount of enzyme present bears to the sugar , the linear period disappearing when the amount of enzyme present is relatively considerable ( Tables , III , .
It will be noted that in the cases studied in which the action proceeds comparatively slowly , e.g. , bydrolysis by lactase , emulsin or falls rapidly in value ; whereas when the action proceeds rapidly , e.g. , hydrolysis by invertase or diastase\mdash ; K increases .
To understand the origin of these differences , it is desirable to consider the subject of mass action ewhat in detail , even at the risk of repetition .
Changes such as that which cane sugar undergoes in an aqueous solution under the influence of a catalyst , in which , on account of its large relative mass , the part played by the solvent may be disregarded \mdash ; known as changes of the first order\mdash ; are assumed to follow the ithmic law of mass action : it is supposed that the one substance only undergoes change and that the same fraction of the residue is changed in successive equal intervals of time , i.e. , the factor deduced rom the equation is a constant .
But this is an ideal , as it involves the assumption that the amount of catalyst functioning is so small as to be negligible .
In actual practice , not only is the amount of enzyme used not inconsiderable but it is known that the rate of change is affected both by alteration in the ation of the hydrolyte and in the proportion which the hydrolyte bears to the catalyst ; moreover , the products of change are known to exercise an influence and in concentrated solutions reversion may take place .
In view of the proof afforded by E. Fischer 's researches that a close relationship exists in configuration between the hydrolyte and the enzyme which alone affects it , there can scarcely be any doubt that hydrolysis by enzymes , in the first stance , involves the combination of the enzyme with the hydrolyte , as Horace Brown and Glendinning have sumed to be the case .
On this assumption , the rate at which the change proceeds will depend on the extent to which the combination of cnzyme with sugar takes place as well as on the degrce of with which the compound breaks down .
The proportion of the total sugar present in combined with the enzyme and undergoing change at any one moment may be regarded as the active of the sngar .
The of an active mass has already been introduced by Arrhenius but in another connection\mdash ; to account for the very rapid rise in the value of , when cane sugar is hydrolysed by acids , occasioned by a rise in temperature , the increase * ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1889 , vol. 4 , p. 226 .
612 Dr. E. F. being far greater than can be accounted for by the increased or by the greater mobility of the molecules at the higher bemperature .
Arrhenius supposed that only a part of the total hydrolyte present really concerned in the hydrolysis : this he termed the " " active part It was arbitrarily assumed tljat this was a fixed proportion of the total mass at any temperature and that the proportion increased rapidly as temperature rose .
On the hypothesis that the enzyme combines with the sugar , the active mass of the sugar will be that portion of the whole is in combination with an amount of enzyme : it will be convenient to speak of the combination as the system .
It is to be supposed that several influences are at work in a solution containing enzyme and sugar : on the one hand , enzyme and sugar molecules seek to .
but on the other , the water moleeules also tend to unite the sugar molecules\mdash ; so that is , so to speak , competition between the enzyme and the water for the sugar molecules , which resuIts in the establishment of an equilibrium depending to some , though obably a very limited extent , on the proportion relatively to enzyme in which the water and sugar molecules are present .
possibility that the products of change also compete for the enzyme must , however , not be left out of consideration .
It is necessary to consider separately four sets of conditions , .
:\mdash ; Case I , in which , whatever the amount of sugar present , the quantity of enzyme is relatively small .
Case II , in which there is a difference from Case I inasmuch as the quantity of enzyme is relatively considerable .
Case III , in which the amount of enzyme diminishes as the action proceeds .
Case , in which the amount of sugar present is varisd .
Case I.\mdash ; As hydrolysis proceeds , assuming the enzyme itself is affected by the work it does , since the magnitude of the active system depends on the amount of enzyme presenb , it is obvious that in the initial stages , if the total amount of sugar present be large compared with , the enzyme will be in presence of enough sugar molecules to establish the maximum possible number of effective combinations : or in other words the magnitude of the active system will remain oonstant and the change will be expressible , as and Glendinning have pointed out , as a function of the time .
As ] ysis enzymes , it is bs lppossd , are colloids , i.e. , which have but little affinity for water : the stability of the combination ill be but to 1 !
slight extent dependent on the proportion in which water is present ; whereas , probably , in the case of a combination of a crystalloid , such as an acid , with sugar , the proportion in which the components of stem are in equilibrium would vary to a considerable extent with the concentration .
Ihis is known lo be the case .
The eflect of acids is dealt with in a separate note .
Sludics on Action .
proceeds , the amount of sngar present decreases mtil it is longer negligible compared with that of the active part and hence the enzyme will no longer effect the lmnm p ossible number of combinations : the proportion of sugar ergolng change will then be a metion of the total mass the formation of active systems will be governed by the law of mass action .
The rate of change be a logarithmic function of the time .
This explanation is fairly in ccordance the observed in the case of invertase and , the only enzymes hitherto experimented with , which have allvays been used in very small quantities .
Case II.\mdash ; If , on the other hand , the quantity of enzyme used be relatively large , the active mass will be a function of the total mass from the very beginning of the experiment , so that the part of the change will escape notice .
O'Sullivarl and Tompson seem to have used a relatively large proportion of enzyme , and therefore it easy to understand why they found the action of lnvertase to follow the logarithmic law , whilst snbsequent observet .
S uslng relatively small quantities of enzyme have noted deparlures from this law .
Case IlI.\mdash ; When the amount of the enzyme does not constant but for some reason decreases , the magnitude of the active system will not only be a function of the amount of sugar but also of that of the enzyme ; it will therefore be represented by an equation of the seco1t order , in which both of two interacting substances decrease\mdash ; as , for example , is the case in the interaction of an alkali and methylic acetate .
Such expression corresponds to a curve falling off from a logarithmic curve and therefore giving a series of decreasing values for when this is calculated for the simple logarithmic law .
In suc a case , the change in its early stages will still be a linear function of the time , as the diminution in bhe amolmt of enzyme will not at first materially influence the magnitude of the active system .
Stated shortly , the ordinary equation of mass act on , where is the total sugar and the amount changed in time is applicable only to the period during which a tant relatively large proportion of enzymc is present together a cont nua amount of sugar but uninfluenced by the products change .
During the final period , when the products of change excrcise an luence by wing enzyme from the sphere of action , , Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 5 , where is the total enzyme , the amount withdrawn in combination with the products in time During the period when the proportion of sugar present is very large , becomes negligible compared with , so that where is a constant .
The apparent duralion of the linear period must be affected not only by becoming no longer negligible compared with but also by the extent to which the products of change make their influence felt .
It may here be pointed out that Henri 's formula combines in a single expression the linear and logarithmic periods , but does not take into account the last period during which the products of the change exercise a retarding influence .
All these points are brought out not only in the results given in this paper but also in those tabulated by Brown and Olendinning .
Although these observers have called attention to the existence of a linear period followed by a " " logarithmic\ldquo ; period , they have failed to point out the meaning which may be attached to the decrease in the values of observed during the latter stages of hydrolysis , when the products exercise a marked influence .
Their experiments afford an example of such an influence .
Thus in Table referring to the bydrolysis of a 3 per cent. solution of starch by diastase at , the value of will be seen to increase until about half the starch was hydrolysed and then to decrease .
If the value after 60 minutes be made the new starting point and the values he recalculated in the manner adopted by Brown and Glendinning , the following figures are obtained:\mdash ; Old time units .
New time units .
60 minutes 80 , , 20 minutes 458 It is evident that whereas should be a constant if the period were " " logarithmic it begins to decrease after about 66 per cent. of the starch has been hydrolysed : showing th the influence of the products in removing enzyme has begun to make itself felt .
action of invertase appears to be much less affected by invert , .
400 .
, .
398 .
1904 .
] Studies on Action .
sugar and that of diastase by maltose than is that of lactase , emulsin or maltase by the products to which they respectively give rise .
Consequently , for these latter enzymes , the linear period is of short duration Tables and the logarithmic period is barely perceptible , owing to the rapid reduction in the rate .
Case \mdash ; When the amount of enzyme and water is kept constant whilst that of sugar is increased , i-t may be supposed that the magnitude of the active system will increase until reaches a maximum , a definite equilibrium being established between enzyme , sugar , and water , the whole of the enzyme , perhaps , becoming combined with the sugar .
It may be assumed if moulIt of sugar be further increased , the equilibrium will remain umaffected , notwithstanding that an addition of sugar is.'practically equivalent to a withdrawal of water .
But remain unaltered , whatever the proportion of sugar present beyond a certain minimum , a constant amount of hydrolyte undergo change in a given .
time , although the proportlon changed as also the value of will decrease as the concentration is increased .
This conclusion is entirely in agreement with the facts elucidated , especially by Adrian Brown , and with my own obssrvations .
Lastly , it should be pointed out bhat in discussing the action of enzymes , besides taking into account the conditions affecting the formation of an active system and the part which such a system plays in hydrolysis , it is necessary to consider the relative stability or tendency to break down under the of water of the combination of enzyme and sugar in connection with the very different rates at which different enzymes condition hydrolysis .
ally speaking , the observed differences in the rate at which hydrolysis is effected may be conditioned by\mdash ; ( Specific differences in the enzymes , , lactase as compared with emulsin , which both hydrolyse milk sugar .
( b ) Differences in the tion of the hydrolyto , e.g. , -methyl glucoside and -methyl galactoside , which are both hydrolysed by emulsin .
Differences in the stability of the hydrolytes , e.g. , cane sugar as compared with milk sugar .
But it is very difficult to institute just comparisons , whereas , in the case of acids , the effect of only a single bstance on ) variety su ars ma be sted , in studying the hydrolysis of sugars sugars may contr under the influence of cnzymes , it is necessary in most cases to different enzyme for each sugar , so that positive data are not easily obtained .
Experiments made 1lnder comparable with aci to test their action on different show these are hydrolysed at very different rates : thus , for insta11ce , whilst cane sugar hydrolysed nearly 1000 times as rapidly as , this lattcr un erlattcr und VOL. LXXIII .
to hold in the case of acid sugar systems .
It is important to keep these considerations in view in discussing the rate at which different enzymes effect hydrolysis .
It will be apparent from what has been said that there is no reason to suppose that the action of enzymes follows any other than a normal course ; the difficulties which have been met with in interpreting such changes may be ascribed to the incomplete consideration of the numerous factors involved .
1810 , 8010 ; 1230 .
" " Studies on Enzyme Action .
III.\mdash ; The Influence of the Products of Change on the Rate of Change conditioned by Sucroclastic Enzymes By EDWARD FRANKLAND ARMSTRONG , Ph. D. , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemical Department , City and Guilds of London Institute , Technical College .
Communicated by Professor H. E ARMSTRONG , F.B.S. Received Apri15 , \mdash ; Read Apri128 , 1904 .
1810 Hexoses\mdash ; power of sucroclastic enzymes to combine with .
8010 activit o correlated with configuration of hydrolyte .
inliuence of glucoses an In the previous paper , it has been shown that , in order to explain the action of sucroclastic enzymes , it is essary to assume not only that the enzyme combines with the hydrolyte but that it is also more or less afl.ected by\mdash ; and presumably combines with\mdash ; the product of change .
At present there is but little information available bearing on this latter contention .
The ments to be described have been made with the object of ascertaining by direct observation whether and to what extent the action of a givsn enzyme is affected by one or more of the products formed under its influence .
They establish very clearly the existence of a close relationship between the configuration of the hexose and the enzyme in those cases in which a retarding influence is apparent : it is cult to explain such a result except on the assumption that the enzyme and hexose combine together in some intimate manner .

