Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
137 December 5 , 1895 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
Professor Thomas Purdie and Mr. G. H. Bryan were admitted into the Society .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. W. Crookes .
Dr. Huggins .
Prof. Lankester .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
Part .
II .
Ophioglossacese .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received October 15 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' ( Series B , 1894 ) , the comparative study of the spore-bearing members of the Lycopodineae , including the Psilotaceae , has led to the conclusion that there is reasonable probability that septation of sporangia originally simple , to form synangia , has taken place ; that a septate body ( synangium ) may be homologous with a non-septate body ( simple sporangium ) ; and that there is no essential difference between tissue which will form septa or trabeculae , and that which will form spores , since the tissues can mutually undergo conversion one into the other .
But the considerations there brought forward do not amount to an actual demonstration that septation has occurred .
For the purpose of our discussion , it is important to ascertain whether such demonstration can be given in the case of parts which are undoubtedly homologous ; it is afforded by the study of septate anthers , which occur in several distinct families of Angiosperms , e.g. , Mimoseae , Onagraceae , Loranth acete , Myrsineae , Rhizophoreae , Orehidaceae , Rafflesiaceae .
Taking the case of the Onagraceae , the common type VOIi .
lix .
i* Prof. F. 0 .
Bower .
Studies in the [ Dec. 5 , of the anther is the ordinary qnadrilocular type , but in certain genera transverse septa are formed in each of the four pollen-sacs by conversion of certain cells of the potential archesporium into sterile tissue ; the unavoidable conclusion already drawn by other writers for this and other cases , is that these septate anthers are derived from those of the ordinary quadrilocular type , and the process of septation thus illustrated is essentially similar to that described for the Lycopodineas in my previous paper .
We thus see that septation of sporangia has actually occurred , and that it is a rather wide-spread phenomenon in Angiosperms .
It will therefore be merely a question of probability whether , and how far , it has also occurred in lower forms , and whether it is by septation that those syDangia were produced , which are so marked a feature in certain Pteridophyta .
The argument from developmental evidence is comparatively simple where , as in the Angiosperms , the meristems are distinctly stratified , and the archesporium is a definite layer , ultimately hypo-dermal in origin ; but in applying a similar argument to the Pteridophyta , in which the meristems are not clearly stratified , it is less easy to arrive at a conclusion .
The principle is to be laid down that the study of the sporangia or synangia of a plant is to he carried out in the light of a knowledge of the segmentation of its apical meristems .
The sporangia are parts of the plant-body , and their segmentations do not differ essentially from those of the meristems of the other parts of the plants on which they occur .
Where the meristems are stratified , as in Angiosperms , a clearly stratified structure of the sporangia is commonly found ; where , as in the Pteridophyta , the meristems are not stratified , it would be plainly unreasonable to expect a stratified structure of the sporangia , and such structure is not found .
Accordingly , in using developmental evidence in solving the question whether synangia in Pteridophytes resulted from septa-tion , the existence of a continuous hypodermal archesporium cannot reasonably be demanded as evidence of septation , though of course it may occur , as indeed it does in Isoetes ; it is , however , to be remembered that in this plant the meristems are more clearly stratified than in most Pteridophyta .
The considerations thus briefly epitomised are a necessary prelude to the comparative study of the Ophioglossacese .
In my preliminary statement ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 ) I have described , chiefly from examination of Ophioglossum , a continuous hypodermal band as the potential archesporium , which subsequently was differentiated into sporogenous groups and septa ; such a band appears with some degree of regularity in this species , but it is not constant , and is not found with any clearly defined outer limit in 0 .
vulgatum or reticulatum ; thus far I admit the validity of Rostowzew 's criticism of my preliminary statement ( " Beitr .
z. Kenntniss der Ophioglosseen .
1895.J Morphology of Spore-producing Members .
1 .
Oph .
vulgatum , L. , " Moscow , 1892 ) .
On looking more care- fully into this question , however , I have found that a band of superficial cells , differing in origin and segmentation from the surrounding cells , may be recognised as the sporangiogenic band this gives rise to the sterile septa , the sporogenous groups , and the external wall of the sporangia ; the band usually consists of two longitudinal rows of cells , possibly referable in origin to a single row , but there is some variety of detail .
The observations have been made on three species , viz. , 0.vtdgalum , L. , 0 .
reticulatum , L. , and pendulum , L. The band , at first undifferentiated , subsequently forms ( i ) arche-sporia at intervals , ( ii ) sterile septa which intervene between them , and ( iii ) the outer sporangial walls .
The cell-groups which give rise to septa and to archesporia are sister cell-groups , having a common origin , and no difference can be seen between them in early stages ; the distinction only becomes apparent as the archesporia attain their characteristic denser contents , and the difference is thus functional , not genetic .
The archesporium of the single sporangium has not been found to be referable in origin to a single cell , and it is not defined by the first periclinal wall of the cells of the sporangiogenic band .
These facts are all compatible with a theory of the origin of the spike of Ophioglossumby septation from a simple sporangium of the Lycopodinous type , and the sporangiogenic band may be compared with the band of cells , sometimes a single row , or two or three , which , after periclinal division , give rise to the archesporium of Lycopodium .
The development of the sporangia of and stachys has also been traced , but these facts do not bear so directly upon the question of the nature and origin of the Ophioglossaceous spike as those derived from the study of Ophioglossum .
Abnormalities have played a large part in former discussions upon the morphology of the spike in the Ophioglossacese .
While recognising the obvious correlation which exists between vegetative development and spore-production , it has been concluded that the abnormalities in this family do not form a sufficient basis for argument , certainly not when the conclusions drawn from them are in opposition to the results of comparison of normal specimens .
Such comparison led Mettenius , Strasburger , Celakovsky , and others to recognise a relationship of the Ophioglossaceae to the Lycopods .
This comparison has been developed at considerable length , ou grounds not only of the similarity of the development and position of their spore-bearing members , but also by comparison of the synangia of the Psilotacese ; the Gametophyte , also , and sexual organs and embryology , as far as known , have been taken into account , and a detailed comparison made of certain features in the anatomy of the Lycopods and Ophioglossaceee .
From these various l 2 Prof. F. 0 .
Bower .
[ Dec. 5 , sources a general support of the relationship has been traced , the nearest point of comparison appearing to be between 0 .
and Phylloglossum Drummondii ; it is contended that this is not a case of mere mimicry , but of real relationship , though such relationship probably dates from a remote and unknown ancestry .
Such a relationship would involve the idea of septation of the simpler type of Lycopodinous sporangium , to form the spike of Ophioglossum , but it has been shown that septation of a very similar nature has occurred in the anthers of certain Angiosperms , and that the developmental details of Ophioglossum are compatible with such a view .
The conclusion of Celakovsky is , therefore , regarded as probably true , viz. , " that both the Lycopodiacese and Ophioglossacese sprang from a common stock , which had the simple sporophylls of the Lycopodiaceae .
The Lycopods are probably , of living plants , the nearest prototypes of the Ophioglossaceaa .
' ' Thus , the view put forward is not new nor original , but , being now based on a wider area of fact , may take rank as a reasonably probable theory .
A comparison of the Ophioglossace\#174 ; among themselves shows that probably the genus Ophioglossum forms a series of increasing complexity , extending from such types as 0 .
Bergianum or lusitanicum to such forms as 0 .
pendulum and palmatum .
Comparison of a large number of specimens of the latter species shows that the many-spiked condition is led up to by specimens with one , two , or three spikes , which are matched by abnormal specimens of 0 .
vulgatum .
The view is put forward that the many-spiked condition occasionally met with in other species has become the typical state in 0 .
palmatum , and that it has been brought about by a chorisis or interpolation similar to that of the stamens of certain Angiosperms .
It is further to be added that the insertion of the spikes is commonly on the adaxial surface of the frond , rarely upon the margin ; the facts accordingly do not support the hypothesis that the many spikes are of the nature of pinnae : thus , in Ophioglossum the progression appears to be towards multiplication of sporangia and formation of a plurality of spikes .
In Botrychium the progression appears to be from types such as B. simplex , in which there is , close similarity to a simple Ophioglossum , by branching of the spike which is closely connected with enlargement and septation of the sporangia , to the condition seen in such species as B. virginianum , the branching of the spike running parallel with that of the subtending frond .
The formation of sporangia abnormally on the latter , a condition commonly seen in B. Lunaria , but rare in most other species , is believed to be an example of reversion of a part typically vegetative to the sporo-genous condition , and not indicative of a common character of the spike and the vegetative frond .
Finally , Helminthostachys occupies 1895 .
] Preliminary Statement on the Sorus of Danosa .
141 an interesting intermediate position ; the replacement of the sunken sporangia of Ophioglossum by projecting sporangiophores in thostachys suggests , as already indicated in the preliminary statement ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 ) , an interesting analogy with the hypothetical origin of the strobilus of from a body of the nature of a sporogonial head .
The chief object in view in these investigations has not been the mere tracing of homologies of parts among living forms ; but , by developmental study and comparison , the following out of the probable methods of progression in the evolution of the more complex from the simpler types .
It is believed that all the three methods of increase in number of separate sporangia , suggested in the former memoir ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , vol. B , p. 473 ) , have been employed , viz. ( i ) septation , ( ii ) branching or chorisis , ( iii ) a reversion of vegetative parts to the sporogenous condition .
In addition to these , however , there has probably occurred also an eruption of appendicular organs from a previously smooth surface .
This has already been suggested elsewhere ( ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 8 , p. 343 ) ; the sporangiophores of l\#163 ; elminthostachysmay be taken as an interesting example of such eruption .
It will be thus seen that the memoir , of which this is a very brief abstract , touches some of the most fundamental conceptions of the morphology of vascular plants , approaching them , not from the point of view derived from comparison of higher forms , but from the study and comparison of organisms which are believed to be nearer to the border line between Bryopliyta and Vascular plants , viz. , the Homosporous Pteridophyta .
II .
" Preliminary Statement on the Sorus of .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany , University of Glasgow .
Received November 29 , 1895 .
The sorus of Dancea , though its structure in the mature state has been repeatedly described , has not yet been studied as regards its development .
The oblong , cake-like sori lie parallel to one another on the lower surface of the leaf , their longer axes following the course of the vascular bundles .
Each sorus consists of two rows of loculi , of approximately equal size , completely sunk in the rather massive tissue of the wall .
Dehiscence is described as being by a pore at the apex of each loculus .
The sporogenous tissue of each loculus is usually referable to the segmentation of a single superficial cell , which gives rise to it , and to the portion of the sporangial wall above it .
There is , however , great variety of bulk , number of cells , and mode of segmentation

