]\gt ; Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher on the January 14 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following pers were read : I. " " On a Class of Identical Relations in the Theory of Elliptic Functions .
By J. W. L. M. Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by JAMES GLAIsnrn , F.R.S. Received November 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Ihe object of the memoir is to notice certain forms into which the primary elliptic functions admit of being thrown , and to discuss the identical tions to which they give rise .
These latter , it is shown , can be obtained directly by the aid of Fourier 's theorem , or in a less forward manner by ordinary algebra .
Thus , ex. , consider the cosine-amplitude : it is shown that we have the formula cosam \mdash ; \amp ; c. ( being ) , which is noticeable as being of the form and therefore an analogue of -\amp ; .
This form of the cosine-amplitude gives rise to the identical equation sech sech ( sech ( sech ( sech ( sech sech ( 1 ) ( sech being the hyperbolic secant ) .
The result ( l ) is deducible at once from the integral sech sech ; and it is remarked that evaluable integrals of the forms Theory of EUiptic Functions .
neven ) give rise to identities of the same class as ( 1 ) , and lich , it appenrs , arc elliptic-fumction relations .
It is alsop ointed how ( 1 ) he orher identities discussed in the memoir mit of bemg established by ordinary algebra and trigonometry differeut ) Other idclltities and formulae are noticed and compared ; ex. for the , writiug cosam sech z ; that if .
be four quallTities subject to the relations that , idenlities ] ' each sech ( -\amp ; : .
sech x ' \mdash ; \amp ; . . . . . .
( 2 ) \mdash ; \amp ; .
VOL. XXII 168 Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of ( see Schellbach , 'Die Lehre von den elliptischen Integralen , ' 1804 , p. 113 ) .
In ( 2 ) , must be less than The two formulae obtained in the memoir , tanh ( are considered in some detni ] , and an algebraical proof is added of AM 's identity , . . .
II .
On some remarkable Changes produced in Iron and Steel by the Action of Hydrogen and Acids .
By WILLIAM H. JoIfNSON , B. Sc. Communicated byProf .
SirILLIAMHoMsoN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Reccived December 7 , 1874 .
Some three ago my attention was called to a remarkable change in some of the physical properties of iron caused by its immer sion in hydrochloric and sulphuric acids .
This is at once made evident to one by the extraordinary decrease in toughness and break ing-strain of the iron so , and is all the more remarkable as it not permanent , but 0llly temporary in character , for with lapse of timt the metal regains its original toughness and sfrength .
With of he cnuse and degrce of this change , I have from time 10 time made nber of , some of which were carnd out on orks v here quantities of sulphuric and h.ydrochloric acids are used to remove the coating of oxide from iron wire preparatory to il .
JIIany these experiments been ] described in somev hat desultory form in the ' Proceedings of the Lite rary and of anchester ' for , RIarch 4th Dec. 30th , .
13th , fnrch ] 0th and 24th , 1874 .
lleltlit)ned before , 1 first lloticed that iron vire became more ftcr a fe ( a minute will sometimes ) in strol ) hydrochloric or dilute uric acid\mdash ; a piece brenking affi ] being bent onco oll ] hilo before immersion it would bear on itself and back or hrec -imes before breaking .
But ' haps the most remarkable if , while still hot from ) the breaking , the ctul e part was 11-etted , ppenred t frotb :

