II .
" Researches on Gaseous Spectra in relation to the Physical Constitution of the Sun , Stars , and Nebulse."-Third Note .
By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.R.S. Received July 14 , 1869 .
1 .
It has been pointed out by one of us that the vapours of magnesium , iron , &amp;c. are sometimes injected into the sun 's chromosphere and are then rendered sensible by their bright spectral lines * .
2 .
It has also been shown ( 1 ) that these vapours , for the most part , attain only a very low elevation in the chromosphere , and ( 2 ) that on rare occasions the magnesium vapour is observed like a cloud separated from the photosphere .
3 .
It was further established on the 14th of March , 1869 , and a drawing was sent to the Royal Society indicating , that when the magnesium vapour is thus injected the spectral lines do not all attain the same height .
Thus of the b lines , b1 and b2 are of nearly equal height , but b4 is much shorter .
4 .
It has since been discovered that of the 450 iron lines observed by Angstrom , only a very few are indicated in the spectrum of the chromosphere when iron vapour is injected into it .
5 .
Our experiments on hydrogen and nitrogen enabled us at once to connect these phenomena , always assuming , as required by our hypothesist , that the great bulk of the absorption to which the Fraunhofer lines are due takes place in the photosphere itself .
It was only necessary , infact , to assume that , as in the case of hydrogen and nitrogen , the spectrum became simpler where the density and temperature were less , to account at once for the reduction in the number of lines visible in those regions where , on our theory , the pressure and temperature of the absorbing vapours of the sun are at their minimum .
6 .
It became important , therefore , to test the truth of this assumption by some laboratory experiments , the preliminary results of which we beg to communicate in this Note , reserving details , and an account of the further experiments we have already commenced , for another paper under the above title .
We took the spark in air between two magnesium poles , so separated that the magnesium spectrum did not extend from pole to pole , but was visible only for a little distance , indicated by the atmosphere of magnesium vapour , round each pole .
79 We then carefully examined the disappearance of the b lines , and found that they behaved exactly as they do on the sun .
Of the three lines the most refrangible was the shortest ; and shorter than this were other lines , which one of us has not yet detected in the spectrum of the chromosphere .
This preliminary experiment , therefore , quite justified our assumption , and must be regarded as strengthening the theory on which the assumption was based-namely , that the bulk of the absorption takes place in the photosphere , and that it and the chrornosphere form the true atmosphere of the sun .
In fact had the experiment been made in hydrogen instead of in air , the phenomena indicated by the telescope would have been almost perfectly reproduced ; for each increase in the temperature of the spark caused the magnesium vapour to extend further from the pole , and where the lines disappeared a band was observed surmounting them , which is possibly connected with one which at times is observed in the spectrum of the chromosphere itself when the magnesium lines are not visible .

