IV .
An Account of the Sunk Island in Humber , some Years since recovered from the Sea .
Being an Extract of a Letter Communicated to the Royal Society by John Chamberlain , Esq ; R. S. S. THis Island goes by the name of the Sunk Island , so called I suppose from the sinking Marsh Ground about it .
As for its Original one may make pretty sure Conjectures of that I believe , because it is yet within in the memory of Man , since it began to raise its Head above the Ocean , there being several old People here alive , who can remember when there appeared nothing of it but a wast and barren Sand ; and that only at Low-Water too , when for the space of a few Hours it showed its Head , and then was buried again till the next Tides Retreat : thus successively it lived and died until the Year 1666 , when it began to maintain its ground against the insult of the Waves ; about which time it began to be rescued wholly from future danger , by the Care and Industry of Colonel Gilby , who having , as I am imform 'd , a Lease or Gift of it from the Crown , did raise Banks about the rising Grounds of it , and so defending it from the Encroachments of the Water , it became Firm and Solid ; and in a short time afforded good Pasturage for Sheep and other Cattel .
The Expenses at first to improve it to what it is , must needs have been very considerable ; it being encompassed with high Banks , and deep Canals for receiving and discharging the Liquid Element , which every now and then notwithstanding threatens to re-possess it self of its ancient Hereditament , but hitherto in vain ; for I now acquaint you of its present Safety .
This Island is now about 9 Miles in Circumference , within the Banks , which seem to render it impregnable against all future attacks of the Sea , and is of a very fat and fertile Soil , affords good Grass , Corn and Hay , and is replenished with numerous flocks of Sheep , which are of a larger Size and finer Wool than those in Holderness , from which it is divided by about two Miles in Water ; and from Lincolnshire by about four .
It is stored with vast numbers of Rabits , that seem innumerable , they appearing through all Parts in prodigious Swarms ; their Skins are counted the finest in England , of a dark Mouse Colour , Shagg 'd , and soft as Silk .
There are also Cows and Horses feeding constantly in the Place , with great plenty of Wild Foul .
The Inhabitants are not so numerous , there being only three Families that live constantly upon the Place ; however they are never too solitary , there being abundance of Workmen and Labourers that continually resort thither , sometimes I am told to the number of a Hundred and upwards , for the repairing of the Banks , &amp;c. The Yearly Income of the Proprietor Mr. Gilby , amounts to about 800l .
and pays the King 's Taxes to those who Collect for the East-Riding , and is usually uplifted by those of the Liberty and Township of Ottringham , from the Marshes of which there is a Passage over the Sands to the Sunk at Low-water .
But this Custom of paying the King 's Cess to them , proceeds only from the convenience , not Necessity ; for it never belonged to that or any other Parish , so that I cannot resolve you in what Diocese this Island lies , unless it had been united to some neighbouring Parish , or converted to one of it self ; which if effected , the Tithe of Lambs , Wool and Rabits , &amp;c. would make up a handsome Benefice .
It lies nearer indeed to the Diocese of York , by at least two Miles , than to that of Lincoln , being two Miles South of Holderness , in the River Humber , and four Miles North of Lincolnshire , &amp;c. Welwick , April 14 .
1717 .

