An Account of an Appendix to the small Intestines of Birds .
By James Macartney , Esq. F.R.S. IRead March 21 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 257 .
] Although almost every author who has written upon the incubation of the egg has observed the direct communication between the yolkbag and the small intestines of the chick , and although some of them have observed that this duct remains in the form of a small ciecum during life , it appears to have escaped the notice of any one , that in some species of birds this part is of considerable size , and possesses a structure peculiar to itself .
It was in the snipe that Mr. Macartney first observed its magnitude to exceed that of the caeca of the great intestines ; and he has since found that in the woodcock and curlew it is proportionally large .
In the black coot also , it is long , but slender , like the rest of the intestines in that bird .
In the swan and goose it does not bear the same proportion as in the preceding , though somewhat larger than in the generality of birds .
This caecum consists always of two tunics , corresponding to the peritoneal and villous coats of the intestinal canal in general , but without any appearance of intervening muscle .
Its interior surface is composed of small cells , like the assemblage of mucous follicles , found in various parts of the alimentary canal .
The matter contained in this appendix has never been found the same , as in the adjoining intestines , but it has been always filled with a mucous fluid , which it seems to secrete .
This appendix , in most birds , retains evidence of its origin ; for the remnant of the yolk-bag is commonly found adhering to its extremity , and still communicates freely with it , especially in the Accipitres , and in the passerine tribe .
In the nightingale Mr. Macartney observes , the duct is scarcely visible ; but the yolk-bag remains during life as a sac , the size of a large pea , communicating with the intestine .
The preceding facts , says the author , are curious instances of an organ of foetal life retained in the full-grown bird , for the exercise of a particular function .

