1880 .
] Dr. Gr .
Thin .
On Bacterium foetidum .
Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , bee .
K.b. Received May 12 , 1880.* [ Plate 6 .
] The feet of certain individuals are characterised by a peculiar powerful and foetid odour .
This odour , although it is usually believed to be connected with the sweat from the feet , is really connected with the moisture that soaks the soles of the stockings and the inside of the boots .
The moisture , which comes from the skin of the soles , especially from that of the heels , has no offensive smell whilst it is exuding , but it rapidly acquires the characteristic odour when taken pure sweat , but is an admixture of sweat with serous exudation from the blood .
This admixture occurs m persons whose feet sweat profusely , and who , from much standing or walking , acquire an erythematous or eczematous condition of the skin ot the soles , the local erythema or eczema being favoured by the softening and macerating effect of the sweat on the epidermis .
That the fluid is not sweat is shown by its reaction .
In the case which furnished me with an opportunity for investigation the reaction with litmus paper applied to the wet heel was very faintly alkaline , the fluid m t e stockings and on the inner surface of the sole of the boot being more decidedly , but still faintly , alkaline .
At the same time the sweat on other parts of the body was acid . .
When a small portion of the sole of the wet stocking was teased out in water , the drop of water was found to be swarming with minute spherical bodies , many of them being in pairs , fairly equal m size an refracting light uniformly .
Clusters or colonies of them were lying on hollow parts of the cotton fibres .
These bodies I shall m this paper call micrococci , implying by that term no more than that they were spherical , that they were found singly and in pairs , and that they were capable of development .
No rod-shaped bacteria were found in the drop .
Having made more than one examination , and finding the micrococci always present , I inoculated with them a drop of pure vitreous humour , and placed it over a cell prepared in the usual manner .
e cells were kept at a temperature of from 96 ' to 98 F. , am wit nn twenty-four hours appearances were observed which showed that t e micrococci ( or spores ) were developing after the fashion in wine 1 t e spores of the Bacillus anthracis are known to develop .
In 01 er o * This paper records the results of one of a series of investigations on the parasites that infest the human skin , the expenses connected with which have been defrayed by the Scientific Grants Committee of the British Medical Association .
474 Dr. G. Thin .
On Bacterium foetidum .
[ June 10 study more conveniently the different forms assumed by the organism when under cultivation , it was grown for successive generations in pure vitreous humour , contained in pure test glasses , and kent fl+ 96 ' to 98 ' F. p w The glasses , fitted with glass caps , and covered by a larger protecting glass , were placed on small glass squares and purified by being kept at a temperature over 300 ' F. for about two hours .
The flasks for the vitreous humour were protected by carbolised cotton wool and similarly heated .
The vitreous humour was obtained by collection from ox and sheep 's eyes .
It was squeezed through fine muslin , and introduced with proper precautions to a pure flask , which was then placed for half an hour in boiling water .
All the apparatus used and the method of experimenting were modelled after those described by Bister in a paper on the lactic fermentation in the twenty-ninth volume of the " Transactions of the Pathological Society of London .
" It was ascertained that milk , vitreous humour , and turnip infusion , so prepared and protected by the carbolised cotton caps , kept free from organisms and retained their natural appearance and taste for periods extending over six weeks .
A second generation of the organism , which for convenience I may call Bacterium foetidum , was obtained by placing a small piece of the wet stocking in one of the test-glasses , charged with pure vitreous humour .
This and all the succeeding generations were cultivated at a temperature which varied between 94 ' and 98 ' F. The successive generations were obtained by inoculating pure vitreous humour , with requisite precautions .
In twenty-four hours the surface of the vitreous humour was always found covered with a delicate scum , which in forty-eight hours was compact and tolerably resistant .
In the scum of one day 's growth and in the fluid below it organisms were found as cocci , single and in pairs , in transition stages towards rod formation , as single and jointed rods , and as elongated single rods .
Many of the rods were actively motile .
The compact scum of two days ' growth was sufficiently resistant to be removed in an unbroken sheet .
When disturbed by the needle it fell to the bottom of the glass .
It was found to contain all the forms found in the twenty-four hours ' growth , and in addition long unbroken rods in transition stages towards the formation of chains of spores .
Spores were also found lying beside the empty and partially empty sheaths from which they had been discharged .
Groups of single spores and pairs , identical in size and appearance with those which had come to maturity in the sheaths , were found mixed up with rods in all phases of development .
As no individual coccus or rod was kept under continuous observation , the process of growth can only be inferred by comparing the 1880 .
] Dr* G. Thin .
On Bacterium foetidum .
475 various forms with each other , and thus tracing the successive stages in the development .
Examples of these different stages were drawn ( Plate 6 ) , and with the assistance of the figures I shall endeavour to describe what I believe to be the order of succession .
The first stage is undoubtedly the production of a pair from a single coccus .
The individuals of the pair were sometimes found so closely associated that there was no independent movement in each member , in some a distinct movement of each could be observed , whilst in others the union was so loose that there was a perceptible distance between them , and they oscillated round each other , connected undoubtedly by a band of union which with the microscope I employed was not distinctly visible .
The next stage I take to be that in which the whole body is wedge-shaped , the round brightly refractive coccus being found in the thick end of the wedge .
Another phase which is probably the successor of the preceding one , is the appearance of a canoe-shaped figure with the bright coccus in the centre .
In one of these canoe-shaped bodies Mr. Knowsley Thornton and myself observed two of the bright refractive bodies in active oscillation in the centre of the canoe \ one and then two being successively visible according to their relative position .
The canoe-shaped envelope itself was motionless ( the preparation was a permanent one sealed in diluted Groadby s solution } , and Mr. Thornton was able to draw it with the camera .
( See fig. 2 , u , 6 .
) Other appearances connected with the early stage of development , and probably following the wedge and canoe-shaped figures , show the organism developed into a staff-shaped body , containing two elements of very different refractive power .
The coccus element is still distinct and is brightly refractive , the other element is very slightly refractive and is seen as a dull shade , with however perfectly distinct outlines .
The latter element it may be convenient to term protoplasm , using the word merely to express the idea of an element which is distinct from the coccus and the sheath .
The relative positions of the coccus or cocci and the protoplasm are various .
The coccus may be at one end of the rod , two cocci may be in the centre close together with a prolongation of protoplasm on either side , or a central rod of protoplasm may have a coccus at either end .
( Fig. 2 .
) In the next stage we have the formation of the rods characteristic of bacteria .
The distinction between the coccus and the protoplasm becomes lost , although transitions are found in which faint differences of refraction still betray the two elements .
At this stage , in the double flail-shaped rods , the one member sometimes refracts differently from the other , the development being evidently in a different stage .
The numerous two- , three- , and four-jointed rods attached to each 476 Dr. Gf .
Thin .
On Bacterium foetidum .
[ June 10 , other by a yielding elastic substance , which is very faintly refractive , complete the metamorphosis from the coccus to the rod .
The development of the rod appears to take place in two directions .
In the one there is a formation of small segments whose fate it seems to be to be set free from each other ( fig. 6 ) ; whilst in the other a formation of spores is introduced by a series of preliminary changes .
The latter process begins by a lengthening out of the rod , which is frequently found of great comparative length .
( These long rods are naturally liable to be broken in the preparation , but an idea of their length may be formed from fig 5 , a. ) After the rods have attained a certain length , the protoplasm divides into separate portions in the tube ( fig. 5 , , c ) .
Minute refractive spheres then appear in the separate portions , but are also found occasionally in a long rod before the protoplasm has separated into segments ( figs. 7 , a , and 8 , a ) .
The delicate wall of the tube remains in the meanwhile entire .
The next stage is represented by tabes , in which the spores are so densely packed , that they almost touch ( fig. 8 , the wall of the tube being , however , still visible .
Two appearances , which were seen during the examination of fresh specimens , but were not noticed in the permanent preparations , have not been drawn .
I several times observed tabes filled with spores , in which faint narrow lines of different refraction crossed the tube between the spores , giving the impression of the existence of a hyphen .
I also several times observed tubes partially emptied of their spores , the escaped spores lying beside the empty tube , and resembling in every respect the spores still present in the portions of the tube which had not ruptured .
Amidst the mass of rods and tubes in all the different stages which are found in the scum , were found dense masses of micrococci .
When they were set free by manipulation , and sufficiently isolated to be accurately observed , they were found singly and in pairs ( fig. 9 ) , and resembled in size and appearance , not only the spores which were observed in the ripe tubes , but those which were found in the meshes of the stocking .
Several cultivations were made in turnip infusion from the original stock and from various generations of the vitreous humour stock .
Ho regular notes were taken of these cultivations , but I can state that the bacterium whilst it grows in turnip infusion grows less actively than in vitreous humour .
It took from three to five days ( at the same temperature at which the other cultivations were made ) before a perceptible scum appeared on the surface of the fluid , and then the scum was not so thick as after a cultivation of half the time in vitreous humour .
All the lengths of rod formation were found , but in none of the preparations examined did I find spores either in the long rods C'.Hoy .
Sot- ] \ m mcm \gt ; s yym 1880.1 Dr. G. Thin .
On Bacterium foetidum .
477 or free in the fluid .
In many of the long rods segmentation of the protoplasm , by which rod-shaped masses of equal length were formed , was observed , the delicate tube wall being continued from one segment to the other unbroken .
The observations were not sufficiently extended to determine whether the bacterium forms spores when cultivated in turnip infusion , but they suffice to show that if it does occur , it occurs much less actively than when the cultivation is in vitreous humour .
That the foetid odour of the stocking is due to the development of the bacterium was shown by the characteristic fcetor being reproduced in the cultivation glasses , although the strength of the odour diminished in successive generations .
The fluid of the fourth generation still smelt powerfully , and was at once recognised by several persons who had smelt the original piece of stocking ; the fluid of the eighth generation still had the characteristic smell , but had it so feebly that although at once recognised by myself and the patient from whom the stocking had been obtained , it was not considered distinctive by a third person who had recognised the smell of the fourth generation .
Mr. Lister , to whom I mentioned this fact , informs me , and authorises me to state , that he has made an analogous experience with the Bacterium lactis .
This bacterium , after being cultivated in successive generations in urine , although it still retains its capacity to induce the lactic fermentation , possesses it in a less degree than when it has been grown in milk .
The vitreous humour in a similar way would seem to be a less favourable medium for the Bacterium fcetidum ' ( in so far as the production of the peculiar odour is concerned ) than in the mixture of sweat and serum in which it develops in the stocking .
EXPLANATION O THE PLATE .
[ Figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 are camera drawings by Mr. Knowsley Thornton , made by the use of an excellent immersion objective by R. and J Beck , and I am much indebted to Mr. Thornton , not only for these careful and accurate drawings , but for valuable suggestions bearing on the subject of the paper .
The magnifying power for these figures is 900 diameters .
In fig. 3 are forms drawn by myself without the camera .
They afford no guarantee of size .
In fig 5 , drawn by myself , are camera drawings , as regards length ( magnifying power 1,000 diameters ) , but they give no guarantee as regards breadth .
] Fig. 1 .
The micrococcus , from the sock uncultivated .
All the other figures are drawn from cultivated specimens .
Tig .
2 .
Micrococcus forms in development , a and b show two phases of the same object .
Fig. 3 .
a. Further stages in the development of the micrococcus ; 6 .
, examples of spore appearances in rods .
Fig. 4 .
Elongating rods .
Fig. 5 .
Elongated rods , three of them showing segmentation in the protoplasm .
Fig. 6 .
Segmented rods .
478 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June 10 Fig. 7 .
Spores in the elongated rods ; a is an example of a single spore formed at one end of each segment of protoplasm .
Fig. 8 .
Various phases of spore ( coccus ) formation in the tubes ; a is an example of spheres in the protoplasm of an unsegmented rod j chains of spores ( or cocci ) , in which remains of the tube , although hardly to be represented clearly in a drawing without exaggerating the appearance , are yet distinctly visible .
In estimating the size of b , it is to be borne in mind that both the spores and the sheath mate up the dimensions as they are shown .
Fig. 9 .
Micrococci or spores set free from scum , which is partly formed by rods in the various phases shown in the preceding figures .
III .
" On the State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received May 24 , 1880 .
In carrying out the investigations which I commenced some years since upon the phenomena presented by the flow of different liquids through capillary tubes , the question as to what constitutes a liquid\#151 ; that is in what way it differs from a gas , and how the great variance of the microrheometrical laws for the two fluids can be explained\#151 ; again and again presented itself to me .
Seeing that solids are soluble in gases as well as in liquids , one of the chief differences supposed to exist between the two states has disappeared ; and I have been compelled to adopt as the only definition of a liquid , that it is a fluid which has cohesion .
Professor James Thomson , F.R.S. , has suggested to me the use of the term contractility , instead of cohesion , and this term admirably defines the liquid state , but as it suggests ( in a distant way perhaps ) a voluntary power , and is used in connexion with organised structures , I shall retain the term cohesion at present .
We have then the two states of fluids , first , the gaseous , in which the vis viva or heat energy of the molecules has entirely overcome cohesion , or their mutual attraction , and they are prevented from grouping ; and second , the liquid where the attractive power is greater than the vis viva , and the molecules are enabled to group themselves , but still are in sufficient motion to prevent the grouping from being permanent , hence we have cohesion , but no rigidity .
We do not yet know that all solids are not also fluids , as many of them are known to flow , but this may be from other causes , but we know that the solid state is characterised by so much cohesion as to produce more or less rigidity .
The most interesting point in the consideration of a liquid is that at which it approaches to the gaseous state , where its cohesion disappears , and we have what Dr. Andrews has termed the critical point , which is the termination of that property which distinguishes a liquid fluid from a gaseous fluid , or in other words the liquid be-

