478 Mr. W. H. Jessop .
[ June 10 , IY .
" On the Anatomy , Histology , and Physiology of the Intraocular Muscles of Mammals .
" By Walter H. Jessop , M.A. , M.B. Cantab .
, F.R.C.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , London , \amp ; c. Communicated by Sir W. Bowman , Bart. , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This research was prompted by the variety of opinions on the subject of the histology , anatomy , and physiology of the intra-ocular muscles .
Owing to the wide range of the subject I have been obliged to restrict myself almost entirely to the action of these muscles in mammals .
Most of the experiments have been on rabbits , dogs , or cats , and numerous observations , especially on the histology and action of the ciliary muscle , have been on human eyes .
The animals experimented on have always been completely anaesthetised .
The subject.has been divided into three chief parts\#151 ; I. The anatomy and histology ; II .
The physiology ; III .
The action of cocaine , atropine and eserine , both singly and in combination .
I. The anatomy of the intra-ocular muscles has been considered as to ( 1 ) the muscular tissue , ( 2 ) the nerves , ( 3 ) the vessels .
( 1 .
) The muscular tissue .
A. The Iris consists of a sphincter muscle .
This muscle in mammals is suspended to the ciliary border by a posterior limiting membrane of elastic tissue .
I have found no developed dilator muscle extending from the pupillary to the ciliary border except in rabbits , and in these animals it is very thin .
Koganei says in the otter , however , it is well developed .
Any muscular fibres found aire in the stroma of the iris in front of the posterior limiting membrane .
B. The ciliary muscle consists of unstriped muscle in mammals attached by a tendon to the sclero-corneal junction , and its fibres interlace by bundles in every direction , the most developed being the radial and circular fibres , and the position of the ciliary body determines the preponderance of so-called radial and circular fibres .
The author is inclined to think from the great variety in length and development of the longitudinal fibres that they are chiefly attachments of the muscle to the elastic tissue of the choroid , and may thus correspond to the so-called radial fibres of the iris when they exist .
( 2 .
) The nerves proceeding to the intra-ocular muscles are branches 1886 .
] On the Intraocular Muscles of Mammals .
of ( a ) the third , ( / 3 ) the nasal branch of the ophthalmic , and ( 7 ) the sympathetic .
at .
The nerve to the inferior oblique muscle from the third nerve generally gives off the branch to the ophthalmic ganglion , and from this are given off the short ciliary nerves proceeding to a plexus in the ciliary muscle .
jS .
The nasal nerve gives off generally about four long ciliary branches , which snrround the optic nerve , piercing the sclerotic and going to the plexus before mentioned .
The nasal also gives off farther forward the long branch to the ophthalmic ganglion .
7 .
The sympathetic or so-called mydriatic nerve of the eye receives from the lower cervical and upper dorsal part of the spinal cord fibres generally by the second dorsal nerve .
From the second dorsal they pass to the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic and by the annalus Vieussenii to the inferior cervical ganglion , then along the cervical sympathetic to the superior cervical ganglion , and through the carotid canal to the Gasserian ganglion .
From here they pass by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic through the long ciliary nerves to the plexus before described .
This plexus situated in the ciliary muscle , and containing ganglion cells , receives fibres from all three nerves ; from the plexus are given off branches to the iris and ciliary muscle .
( 3 .
) A. The arteries of the iris come from the ciliary branches of the ophthalmic , and are arranged at the ciliary border as the circulus arteriosus iridis major , and from this are given off radial branches proceeding towards the sphincter , and forming the circulus arteriosus minor , which gives branches to the sphincter .
The veins accompany the arteries .
J3 .
The arteries of the ciliary body come from the long and anterior ciliary and form an anastomosis behind the circle for the iris .
II .
The physiological action of the intra-ocular muscles may also be classified under the headings of ( 1 ) the muscular tissue , ( 2 ) the nerves , and ( 3 ) the vessels .
( 1 .
) A. Pupil.\#151 ; Direct stimulation of the sphincter pupillae gives rise to myosis in the normal eye ; this also takes place in the bloodless and the exsected eye , and therefore after section of the various nerves and vessels .
On the iris cut out of the eye faradaic stimulation near the pupillary border gives rise to contraction of the pupil .
( 2 .
) A. The nerves supplying the iris are a , the third ; / 3 , the sympathetic or mydriatic ; 7 , the trigeminus .
at .
( 1 .
) Stimulation of third nerve or short ciliary nerves is followed by myosis .
( 2 .
) Section of third nerve or short ciliary nerves gives rise to 480 Mr. W. H. Jessop .
[ June 10 .
partial dilatation of the iris , and the pupil is inactive to light or accommodation .
ft. Stimulation of the path taken by the mydriatic nerve , as described in the anatomical division , gives rise to mydriasis .
Section of the nerve in any part of its course is followed by contraction of the pupil , but never excessive ; the myosis is increased a little the higher up and the nearer the eyeball the section is made , and this is due to the tonic action of the ganglia .
The mydriatic fibres accompanying the sympathetic therefore find their way by the long ciliary nerves to the eyeball ; this may , as the rest of their course , be proved by division of them all , when irritation of the cervical sympathetic gives rise to no alteration in the pupil .
I found on stimulating a single long ciliary nerve that , if the pupil was dilated to start with , general increase in the mydriasis occurred .
If , however , the pupil were partially contracted by pilocarpin only half the pupil responded , and if the pupil were more contracted only one-quarter dilated .
In birds stimulation of the cervical sympathetic has no effect on the pupil .
Dual Nature.\#151 ; The cervical sympathetic containing vaso-constrictor nerves for the head and neck , it is necessary to show that the dilatation of the pupil is not a purely vascular act .
This is shown by\#151 ; 1 .
Bleeding an animal to death , and then on exciting the cervical sympathetic several times total mydriasis still occurs .
2 .
Mydriasis on stimulation of the cervical sympathetic precedes the contraction of the carotid vessels .
3 .
The maximum dilatation is reached before the carotid vessels are completely constricted .
4 .
The carotid vessels are constricted when the pupil begins to contract again .
5 .
The pupil is dilated a short time , while the carotid vessels are constricted for a longer time .
6 .
The pupil is again constricted before completion of relaxation of the vessels .
7 .
Section of the trigeminus in front or behind the Gasserian ganglion gives rise to myosis which soon passes off .
Stimulation of the trigeminus generally gives rise to myosis , which is probably reflex , as on section of the third nerve , I obtained an increase to the mydriasis by stimulating it , as also Fr. Franck has done .
Balogh and others also attribute a mydriatic function to the trigeminus .
( 2 .
) B. The nerves supplying the ciliary muscle are the ( \#171 ; ) third and ( ft ) the long ciliary branches of the nasal .
1886.1 On the Intraocular Muscles of Mammals .
481 a. ( 1 .
) Stimulation of the third nerve or the short ciliary nerves gives rise to contraction of the ciliary muscle .
( 2 .
) Section of the third nerve gives rise to relaxation of the ciliary muscle .
/ 3 .
When the ciliary muscle is not completely relaxed stimulation of the long ciliary nerves gives rise to relaxation of the muscle , and in consequence paresis or paralysis of .
accommodation .
Stimulation of the track followed by the cervical sympathetic in the neck gives rise to no alteration in the ciliary muscle , observed by the images on the anterior surface of the lens seen through the phakoscope , therefore the fibres to the ciliary muscle along the long ciliary nerves must come from another source , and this I have little doubt is the fifth , but here as with the pupil the difficulty is to prevent the reflex along the third nerve .
( 3 .
) On section of the cervical sympathetic the arteries of the iris are dilated .
On irritation of the cervical sympathetic the arteries of the eye are contracted .
On section of the trigeminus there is also dilatation of the bloodvessels of the iris and ciliary body according to Rogow .
The separation of purely mydriatic fibres of the cervical sympathetic from the vaso-constrictor has been already proved .
The fact of tapping the anterior chamber of a normal or atro-pinised eye being followed by myosis , is probably due to relaxation of tension overfilling the arteries of the iris , as proved by an experiment cited .
In an animal bled to death the pupil contracts on faradaising the third nerve or its branches : the pupil also dilates on stimulating the cervical sympathetic .
Ciliary Muscle.\#151 ; In the bloodless eye accommodation has been seen to take place by stimulating the third nerve .
III .
The drugs selected for the following experiments were cocaine , atropine , and eserine , and the results are appended in the above order .
Cocaine .
A. On the Pupil.\#151 ; 1 .
Cocainised pupil is of large size , acting to light and accommodation .
2 .
Cut third nerve , add cocaine and get increased mydriasis .
3 .
Cocainised pupil not increased by section of third nerve , but no longer acts to light and accommodation .
4 .
Stimulation of third nerve induces myosis in the pupil under cocaine .
5 .
Stimulation of sphincter pupil]te easily overcomes the cocaine mydriasis .
6 .
On the exsected eye cocaine induces mydriasis .
7 .
On the eyes of animals bled to death , cocaine increases the mydriasis due to haemorrhage .
VOL. XL .
2 K 482 Mr. W. H. Jessop .
[ June 10 , 8 .
On cocaine mydriasis section of the cervical sympathetic had no effect .
9 .
In cases of ad maximum cocaine mydriasis , stimulation of the cervical sympathetic had no effect .
10 .
In cases of section for some time of cervical sympathetic cocaine has no effect on the pupil .
11 .
On tapping the anterior chamber of an eye under cocaine there is very little and often no constriction of the pupil .
From these data we may conclude that cocaine acts on the endings of the cervical sympathetic nerve in the eye .
B. On the Ciliary Muscle.\#151 ; Cocaine on the ciliary muscle produces relaxation and paresis , or in some cases paralysis of accommodation , and it is reasonable to suppose from analogy that it acts here on the endings of the fifth nerve to the muscle .
Atropine .
A. On the Pupil.\#151 ; 1 .
Atropine produces , in mammals , mydriasis not acting to light and accommodation .
2 .
It has no effect on the pupils of birds .
3 .
It only produces a partial mydriasis in rabbits .
4 .
It increases the mydriasis produced by section of the third nerve , or the short ciliary nerves .
5 .
Stimulation of the third nerve has no effect on an atropinised pupil .
6 .
The myosis due to section of the cervical sympathetic is overcome and mydriasis produced by atropine ; this seen even after section for three months in a rabbit .
7 .
Section of the cervical sympathetic diminishes slightly atropine mydriasis .
8 .
Stimulation of the cervical sympathetic increases atropine mydriasis .
9 .
Atropine dilates the pupil after excision of the superior cervical ganglion .
10 .
Atropine mydriasis increased by stimulating one or more of the long ciliary nerves .
11 .
Atropine mydriasis increased by faradaising the periphery of the cornea .
12 .
Atropine mydriasis diminished somewhat by cutting the trigeminus .
13 .
Section of the trigeminus and atropine subsequently put in the eye produced mydriasis .
14 .
Section of the trigeminus and the third nerve , and instillation of atropine followed by mydriasis .
15 .
In an ordinary atropine mydriasis direct electrical stimulation of the sphincter produces myosis , but if the pupil be completely under atropine stimulation of the sphincter has no effect .
16 .
Czermak cut away the cornea , letting out the contents of the anterior chamber , and on adding atropine produced mydriasis .
1886 .
] On the Intraocular Muscles of Mammals .
483 17 .
Tapping the anterior chamber of an eye under atropine produces contraction of the pupil .
18 .
On exsected eye atropine produces mydriasis .
19 .
On the eye of an animal bled to death , atropine dilates the pupil .
20 .
Atropine also dilates the pupil after death .
B. On the Ciliary Muscle.\#151 ; On the ciliary muscle atropine produces relaxation , and if used for a long time complete paralysis .
' From the above experiments on atropine , and the fact that elsewhere atropine paralyses the unstriped muscular tissue of the body , it may be assumed that it acts so on the intra-ocular muscles .
The effect of section of the cervical sympathetic and trigeminus , preventing extreme atropine mydriasis , may be explained by their effect on the blood-vessels producing turgescence of the iris , and therefore acting against the elastic recoil of the sphincter .
Eserine .
A. On the Pupil.\#151 ; 1 .
Eserine on the pupil induces myosis .
2 .
It contracts the pupil of an animal after section of the third nerve or short ciliary nerves .
3 .
In full eserine myosis faradaic excitation of the third nerve does not increase the contraction of the pupil .
4 .
Section of the fifth nerve in front of the Gasserian ganglion , and on putting eserine into the eye the pupil contracts as usual .
5 .
Faradaic stimulation of the cervical sympathetic overcomes eserine myosis if partial , but if complete it has no effect .
6 .
Cut cervical sympathetic in the neck and eserine still induces myosis , even after the section has been made three months .
7 .
For an animal bled to death I have seen eserine induce myosis .
B. On the Ciliary Muscle.\#151 ; Eserine produces contraction of the ciliary muscle , giving rise to spasm of accommodation .
In cases of palsy of the third nerve eserine induces contraction of the ciliary muscle .
The action of eserine on the intra-ocular muscles can be explained by its stimulating directly the muscular tissue .
The antagonism of atropine , eserine , and cocaine is next discussed , and found to agree with the action attributed to each alkaloid .
Conclusion.\#151 ; From consideration of the foregoing experiments and observations the writer describes the intra-ocular muscular system as consisting of two circular muscles , the pupillary and ciliary .
These are supplied , the first by three nerves , the third , the cervical sympathetic , and the fifth , and the second by the third nerve and the fifth .
The muscles are capable of extreme relaxation and contraction , owing to the elastic supports they have .
Section of a nerve producing contraction does not give rise to complete contraction of the muscle , nor does section of a nerve producing relaxation have as a sequel complete relaxation .
484 Dr. A. B. Garrod .
On the Place of [ June 10 , The state of the muscle after section of its nerves is that of " tonus .
" Atropine by acting directly on the unstriped muscular tissue , and paralysing it , can produce a greater dilatation than mere section of the third nerve , and so also on section of the third nerve eserine directly stimulating the muscular fibre gives rise to extreme contraction .
The intra-ocular muscles therefore have a similar anatomical , histological , and physiological action , and they also are associated together during the act of accommodation .
The pupil contracts on accommodating , and dilates on relaxation of the ciliary muscle ; the former action is by means of the third as motor nerve of the pupillary and ciliary muscles , and the latter is through the long ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the fifth .
The ordinary light reflex of the pupil takes place by the third , as the motor nerve , and the cervical sympathetic as the inhibitory nerve giving rise to dilatation of the pupil .
The two chief actions of the pupillary muscle are thus divided off from one another in mammals .
In birds possessing voluntary control over their irides this is not so , and the cervical sympathetic has no power over the pupil , the nerve producing dilatation of the pupil being the trigeminus .
V. " On the Place of Origin of Uric Acid in the Animal Body .
" By Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The endeavour of the author in this communication has been to show the place of origin of uric acid in the animal body , and to ascertain which of the two hypotheses on the subject is correct , viz. , whether uric acid is first present in the blood and then secreted from the blood by the kidneys , or whether it is formed by the kidneys themselves .
To enable him to satisfactorily prosecute many of his observations , the author has devised a new method for discovering the presence of uric acid in very minute quantities of blood .
The results of his investigations are embodied in the form of the nine following propositions :\#151 ; Prop. I.\#151 ; -Uric acid is secreted by the kidneys as ammonium urate , and in the case of birds and reptiles , whose urine is semi-solid , it is found in a definite physical form , more in the vitreous condition than in the truly crystalline shape .
Prop. II.\#151 ; Uric acid , when present in the blood , is found under the

