405 Note on the Colour of Zircons , and its Radioactive Origin .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) Crystals of the mineral zircon are found in a variety of different colours .
What I have to communicate refers to the brown kinds .
Of these , two may be ' distinguished : the common opaque brown variety , easily obtained in large quantity from the South of Norway and from North Carolina , and the transparent reddish brown kinds known as hyacinth , and obtained , for instance , from Expailly in Auvergne , from Unkel , on the Rhine , and from Campbell Island , New Zealand .
It is remarkable that the opaque kinds occur in plutonic rocks , such as syenites , and the transparent ( when their matrix can be traced ) only in basalts and other lavas .
Their outline is rounded , even when found , as at Unkel , embedded in perfectly fresh basalt .
For this reason it has been supposed ( and I have no doubt correctly ) that such zircons have been derived from the melting down of plutonic rocks which originally contained them .
Zircon , from its extreme resistance to chemical attack , would survive almost all other minerals .
Incipient chemical attack would account for the rounded shape , which is in extreme contrast to the sharp crystal outline of the zircons in their original home in plutopic rocks .
Hyacinths lose their reddish brown colour completely when heated to a temperature of about 300 ' C. , and this fact , considered in relation to their occurrence embedded in a solidified lava , presents at first sight no small difficulty .
How is it that they were not decolorised by the heat of the molten rock ?
Or , if they were decolorised , how has the colour been recovered ?
For it will hardly be suggested that transparent crystals of a material so resistant have been coloured by any action of percolating water Another somewhat similar difficulty is raised by the fact that these transparent zircons are thermoluminescent .
The crystals , when moderately heated , give out a phosphorescent glow , at the same time that they lose their colour .
But this glow does not recur on a second heating of the specimen , and the question presses for answer , How has the capacity to glow been recovered ?
\#151 ; for presumably it was not present in the crystals when they first cooled down in their matrix of molten lava .
It is known that the crystals decolorised by heat have their colour restored by exposure to radium .
One day 's exposure to a few milligrams of radium produces a distinct effect in restoring the colour .
Exposure to radium also restores the property of thermoluminescence .
406 Note on the Colour of Zircons , and its Radioactive Origin .
Now , as I showed some years ago , * zircon is a distinctly radioactive mineral , containing hundred of times as much radioactive matter as ordinary rock masses .
It is suggested , therefore , that the zircons found in lavas have had their colour and thermoluminescence restored by the slow action , during prolonged ages , of the radium they themselves contain .
On this view , it might appear that the depth of colour , taken with the amount of radioactive material present , and the observed rate of coloration by radium would give a means of estimating the time which had elapsed since the lava matrix became cool .
Unfortunately , however , the colour of the zircons is saturated , that is to say , further exposure to radioactive matter does not deepen it .
To test this point , two transparent brownish-red hyacinths from Expailly were ground down to slices about 075 mm. thick .
These were examined under a low microscopic power , as their area was somewhat small for naked eye comparison , and the depth of tint which they each showed by transmitted light was found to be as nearly as possible the same .
One slice was exposed on the surface of 5 mgrm .
of radium bromide with a very thin layer of mica interposed .
After the lapse of a month , the tint was scarcely , if at all , deeper than that of the other , which had been reserved for comparison .
The specimen was then decolorised by heat and again exposed to the radium .
In four days it had recovered the original tint and did not get any darker with further exposure.^ We cannot , therefore , determine from the depth of colour what time has elapsed since the specimen cooled .
It should be possible to find an inferior limit to it , and this might be of interest in connection with the general question of geological time , for the hyacinths of Expailly ( for instance ) occur in basalt which is overlain by strata containing extinct mammalian remains .
J The chief difficulty in finding such a limit is this : The a-rays are probably the chief agent concerned in the colouring process , and as these only penetrate distances of the order of mm. , it would be necessary in determining experimentally the rate of coloration by strong radioactive preparations , to use slices of decolourised zircon of some such thickness as this .
Unfortunately the colour producible in such thin layers is much too faint for measurement , and it would be necessary to superpose many of them .
This would greatly complicate the experiment .
The opaque brown zircons mentioned at the beginning of this note seem to he in a different state from the transparent hyacinths .
For , as originally * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1906 , A , vol. 78 , p. 152 .
t Decolorising by heat and recolouring by radium can be repeated indefinitely .
J See Scrope , ' Geology of Central France .
' Intermittent Vision .
found , they are not thermoluminescent , nor can they be made so by exposure to radium .
Moreover they are not decolorised by moderate heating .
As already explained , there is reason to believe that hyacinths are formed from these opaque zircons by the action of a bath of molten basalt .
It was attempted , and with partial success , to imitate this experimentally .
Basalt was kept melted in a platinum crucible over a gas furnace , and some opaque zircons immersed in it for 24 hours .
After this they were extracted , and found to be quite white , though not transparent .
On exposure to radium they now took on the redder colour of hyacinths and became , like them thermoluminescent .
The only outstanding point is the transparency of natural hyacinths .
This may result in some way from the gently increasing , very prolonged action of the molten basalt under geological conditions , which cannot be artificially imitated .
Intermittent Vision .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) It is a matter of fairly common observation that the spokes of the wheels of passing motor cars often appear momentarily stationary , and sometimes even seem to be turning in the direction opposite to their actual motion .
It was pointed out to me by the Hon. T. F. Fremantle that these appearances , which last only for a small fraction of a second , coincide with the steps of the observer , and are only noticeable when the speed of the vehicle lies between certain limits .
On the one hand the motion must be too quick for the eye to follow the individual spokes , and on the other it must not exceed a certain limit , which is apparently slightly different for different individuals .
To examine the phenomena more closely and conveniently a 4-inch disc of black paper was prepared , on which 12 equally spaced radial white lines were superposed , and the disc was mounted on a heavy top , running on ball bearings , and which when spun lost its speed slowly .
An electric contact on the top in conjunction with a recording chronograph gave the angular speed at each instant , while another pen worked by the observer allowed signals to be marked on the chronograph paper , indicating according to a code the nature of the appearance of the disc in various circumstances .
It was found that the lines on the spinning disc appeared stationary not

