Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
23 presence of intense 11'5 volt radiation , for , as lias already been pointed out in connection with the big increase of positive current shown at 18*1 volts in fig. 8 , a large increase in the radiation led to an abrupt and very large increase in the ionisation , although no alteration was made in the external conditions .
This result suggests that some ionisation may occur at electron velocities below 15T volts in the presence of sufficiently intense radiation .
That no detectable amount of ionisation is produced below 1ST volts , in the presence of such intensities of radiation as those to which the argon atoms were subjected in most of the experiments described in this paper , has been proved by special experiments to test for ionisation at the minimum radiation potential difference ; and in the case of those experiments in which the argon atoms were exposed to much more intense radiation , and in which the current showed hysteresis in regard to the accelerating potential difference ( such as the curves of fig. 8 ) , no evidence of hysteresis below 15T volts was ever obtained , a fact which makes it appear unlikely that ionisation does occur below that velocity .
Therefore it seems that , though the presence of intense radiation may affect the number of ionising collisions which occur , the minimum ionisation velocity is the same whether the radiation to which the argon atoms are exposed be weak or intense .
An Investigation of the Effects of Electron Collisio7is with Platinum and with Hydrogen , to ascertain whether the Production of Ionisation from Platinum is due Occluded Hydrogen .
By Frank Horton , Sc. D. , Professor of Physics in the University of London , and Ann Catherine Davies , M.Sc .
, Royal Holloway College , Englefield Green .
( Communicated by C. T. R. Wilson , F.R.S , Received December 10 , 1919 .
) In the course of an investigation of the effects of electron collisions with helium atoms , * it was found that positive ions were produced from a positively charged platinum gauze when this was bombarded by electrons with a minimum velocity of about 11 volts .
The production of positive ions in this way does not appear to have been observed before for such small velocities of the impacting electrons , though their detection with primary rays of 30 volts * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 95 , p. 408 ( 1919 ) .
Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
speed is recorded by Campbell in the account of his experiments on ionisation by charged particles* In this paper Campbell gives an excellent summary of the work which has been done in connection with the bombardment of metal surfaces by slow cathode rays .
The work of Lenard , Baeyer , Gehrts , Campbell , and others has established the facts that , when such rays fall on a negatively charged metal surface , electrons leave the surface , and that the number and the speed of these electrons depends on the velocity of impact of the primary stream .
When the velocity of the incident rays is less than 11 volts , the electrons leaving the plate are those of the primary stream which have been reflected at the metal surface , the characteristic of these reflected rays being that most of them have a velocity comparable with that of the incident rays .
When the velocity of impact reaches 11 volts , in addition to reflexion , an excitation of secondary rays begins and gradually increases in amount as the speed is further increased up to about 200 volts .
On this account the curve showing the relation between the velocity of impact and the number of electrons leaving the plate takes an upward turn at 11 volts , but no other bend occurs until 200 volts is reached .
It has therefore been concluded that the two processes mentioned above , viz. , reflexion , and excitation of secondary rays beginning at 11 volts , are the only causes of electrons leaving the impacted surface .
It was found by Baeyerf that with a minimum velocity of impact of about 25 volts more electrons leave the plate than fall on it , and this result , combined with the fact that Campbell detected a positive current ( presumably from a positively charged plate ) when the bombarding electrons had a minimum velocity of 30 volts , has given rise to the view that the second process\#151 ; that which is operative above 11 volts\#151 ; is an ionisation at the metal surface , the material ionised being either the metal itself or gas attached to it .
On this view it is concluded that the critical velocity of 11 volts is the " ionisation potential " of the material ionised .
This velocity was found to be the same for all the metal surfaces tested , and as it agreed with the usually accepted value of the " ionisation potential " for hydrogen , it has been suggested that the material ionised is hydrogen present in the surface of the metal .
Some confirmation of this view has been obtained by Campbell from experiments with metal surfaces subjected to treatment designed to modify the amount of hydrogen present , | but the evidence hitherto produced cannot be said to prove conclusively that the process which begins at 11 volts is a genuine ionisation by electron collisions .
That ionisation occurs ultimately can hardly be doubted , for it has been * N. It .
Campbell , \#163 ; Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 25 , p. 803 ( 1913 ) .
t O. v. Baeyer , 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' vol. 10 , p. 176 ( 1909 ) .
J N. It .
Campbell , ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 28 , p. 286 ( 1914 ) .
Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
25 observed that when the velocity of the electron stream is sufficiently increased , the number of electrons leaving a bombarded electrode is in some cases as much as twenty times as great as the number arriving at it , * but the first direct proof that ionisation occurs at the metal surface when the impacting electrons have a velocity as small as 11 volts seems to be that given by the experiments made in the course of our investigation of the ionisation of helium .
The present research is a fuller investigation of this effect , undertaken in order to ascertain whether the evidence of ionisation at 11 volts could be substantiated , and , if so , to determine whether it should be attributed to the metal itself or to hydrogen attached to the metal surface .
Description of the Apparatus .
The apparatus used in these experiments is shown diagrammatically in fig. 1 .
The source of electrons is a short piece of tungsten filament , D , which can be heated to incandescence by means of an electric current .
The apparatus was placed so that the temperature of the filament could be ascertained by means of an optical pyrometer.f C is a platinum thimble , the top of which is plane and about 2 mm. above the filament .
The electrons from D are driven towards C by a A difference of potential , Vi volts , applied between B the negative lead of the filament and C. The electrons from a small area at the middle of the C filament pass through a circular hole in the centre of the top of C , directly over the filament .
The electrode B , 4 mm. above G , consists of a plane circular piece of fine platinum gauze , about 2 cm .
in diameter , which forms the base of a hollow cylinder of platinum foil , in which a circular platinum plate , A , 1 cm .
in diameter , is fixed about 2 mm. above the gauze and parallel to it .
The metal parts of the apparatus shown in the figure are enclosed in a glass containing vessel , which is connected to a mercury vapour pump and a McLeod gauge through a U-tube , which , during the experiments , was kept cooled in either liquid air or solid carbonic * A. W. Hull , ' Proc. Inst. Rad. Eng.,5 February , 1918 .
t I am indebted to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for the means of purchasing this instrument.\#151 ; F. H. Fig. 1 .
Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
acid , so as to prevent mercury vapour from entering the essential part of the apparatus .
This was shut off by a stopcock from the mercury vapour when the apparatus was not in use .
In order to prevent the electron stream , passing through the hole in C , from spreading laterally , a magnetic field parallel to the axis of the tube was applied by passing an electric current of 2 amperes through a coil of many turns of wire wrapped round the tube .
The form of the electrodes B and C prevents any electrons from D from reaching A without traversing each of the fields between consecutive electrodes .
The potential difference applied between C and B will be referred to as V2 , that between B and A as V3 .
The currents to the collecting electrode , A , were measured by a sensitive Dolezalek electrometer in connection with it .
All the platinum used in the apparatus was boiled for many hours in strong nitric acid before being fitted into position , and the whole apparatus was finally washed out with chromic acid , followed by distilled water , in order to remove traces of grease from handling .
The long-continued boiling of the platinum with nitric acid tends to remove hydrogen from its surface .
The removal of hydrogen was rendered more complete by baking the experimental tube at a temperature of about 300 ' C. after it had been fitted into position and evacuated as completely as possible .
During the process of baking , the tungsten filament was maintained at a white heat by an electric current and the apparatus was pumped continuously , except during the intervals when the rate of evolution of gas was being tested .
The process was continued for several days until the evolution of gas had practically ceased .
Experiments in which the Collecting Electrode was Bombarded by the Electron Stream from the Filament .
In these experiments , the potential difference Vi between the filament and the electrode C was maintained constant , and the speed of the electrons was varied by gradually varying one of the fields , V2 or V3 , while the other remained constant .
The direction of the field V2 was always such as to drive electrons towards the collecting electrode .
In some experiments the final field V3 .
further accelerated the electrons , so that the velocity with which they impinged on the plate A corresponded to an applied potential difference of ( Vi + V2-fV3 ) volts .
In other cases the direction of V3 was reversed , so that the electrons made " uphill collisions , " striking the plate with a velocity corresponding to ( Vi + V2\#151 ; V3 ) volts .
In every case a correction has to be added to the total applied potential difference , in order to obtain the velocity of the swiftest electrons present under the particular conditions of experiment .
This correction varied from 09 volt to 2 9 volts .
The current measured in these experiments is the difference between that Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
27 due to the cathode rays which reach the plate A and that carried by the electrons which leave it .
It was found that when all the fields were accelerating the electron stream , the current measured by the electrometer increased at first with increasing potential difference , but ultimately reached a value which varied very little for further increases of impacting velocity up to about 60 volts .
Such change as was detectable over this range showed that the measured current increased a very little with increase of the velocity of the electrons .
The value of the impacting velocity at which this almost constant current was first obtained varied slightly according to the distribution of the total accelerating potential difference between the fields Vi , V2 , and V3 , but was never more than about 10 volts .
In cases where V3 was kept at a constant value of 2 or 3 volts , and the speed of the electrons was varied by gradually increasing the potential difference V2 , the approximation to constancy of the current was less complete than when the field V2 was kept constant and V3 varied .
This is readily explained on the view , already established by the work of other experimenters , that electrons are reflected at a metal plate with a velocity comparable with that of the impacting electrons for values of this velocity up to 11 volts , and that the amount of reflection occurring decreases as the velocity of impact increases .
In the case where Y3 is small , the reflected electrons will be able to get away from the plate even though the direction of the field opposes them , whereas in the case where the speed of the electrons is altered by gradually increasing V3 , the reflected electrons will experience more and more difficulty in getting away from the plate as V3 is increased , and will ultimately be prevented from escaping .
Thus when V3 is the varying field , a stage will be reached when no reflection can occur and the measured current corresponds to the total number of electrons from the filament which reach the plate .
When the field V3 opposed the electrons from the filament and caused them to make " uphill collisions " with the collecting electrode , it was found that the measured current increased rapidly with the accelerating potential difference , until the velocity of impact was about 3 volts , but that when this value had been reached , the current either immediately decreased with increasing velocity of the impinging cathode rays , or increased at a much less rapid rate , finally reaching a stage when it did decrease with increasing electron speed .
In every case the measured current had begun to decrease with increasing electron speed when the applied accelerating potential difference was between 10 and 11 volts .
The same result was obtained whether the velocity of impact was varied by keeping the field V3 constant and gradually increasing the accelerating potential difference V2 , or whether it was varied by keeping V2 constant and gradually altering the magnitude of Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
the potential difference V3 retarding the primary electrons .
The variations in the measured current were investigated for velocities of impact up to 70 volts , and in every case so long as V3 opposed the electrons from the filament , and was greater than about 5 volts , the decrease of measured current with increasing electron speed continued over the whole range investigated .
Fig. 2 serves to illustrate the effects produced in the two cases we have ' ?
.D .
accelerating electrons from , gauze to collecting electrode -20 " 10 0 10 20 30 40 0 0\#174 ; \#174 ; \#151 ; 1-------1---1---1----r---1---1---1---1---1---1---1----^-Velocity of impact ( uncorrected ) , volts .
Fig. 2 .
considered , namely , when the electrons make " uphill collisions , " and when they fall on a positively charged plate .
The fields Vi and V2 , accelerating the electron stream , were constant , and had a combined value of 27,0 volts .
The speed with which the electrons struck the plate A was varied by varying the potential difference V3 .
Observations of the current to the plate were taken for a range of values of V3 , extending from a negative value large enough to prevent any of the electrons from the filament reaching the Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
29 plate A , to a positive value of about 40 volts .
Thus , as the velocity of impact increases , the final field , V3 , is reversed at a certain stage .
The velocity of impact corresponding to any value of the field V3 can be seen by reference to the lower horizontal scale in the figure .
The curve shows first a stage where no electrons reach the collecting electrode , then , E , a rapidly increasing negative current due to the original electrons getting through to the plate , and , after this , a stage , F , where the current increases less rapidly , and attains an almost constant value .
This latter part of the curve can be explained by the occurrence of reflexion of the impacting electrons , which prevents the measurement by the electrometer of the total number of electrons from the filament which reach the plate .
This is followed by a fourth stage , G , where the current decreases as the velocity of impact increases , indicating that excitation of secondary rays is occurring , and becoming of gradually increasing importance .
This stage begins when the velocity of impact of the electrons , as read from the lower horizontal scale in fig. 2 , is between 10 and 11 volts , thus showing that the excitation of secondary rays requires a minimum applied potential difference between these limits .
From the curve , it may be seen that the stage G continues until the potential difference V3 , retarding the electron stream , becomes less than about 5 volts , after which it is succeeded by a stage , H , where the negative current increases rapidly as the velocity of impact is increased further .
The sharp downward bend in the curve between the parts G and H indicates that the number of electrons leaving the collecting electrode begins to decrease at this stage , thus causing the resultant negative current to the plate to increase rapidly as the direction of the field V3 changes sign .
This increase of current continues until the potential difference opposing the escape of electrons from the plate is increased to about 9 volts , after which the curve shows a stage , K , where the current remains approximately constant , increasing only a very little for a considerable increase in the velocity of impact .
This constant value of the current may be taken as a measure of the current carried by the impacting electrons , and , since it is first attained when V3 has a positive value of 9 volts , the maximum velocity of electrons leaving the plate is equivalent to that acquired by a fall through a potential difference of this amount .
This value of the maximum velocity of the secondary rays is about the same as the value found by Lenard and by other observers .
Trom the part K of the curve , it may be concluded that , if ionisation occurs at the metal surface , the number of positive ions which leave the plate A ( now positively charged with respect to the gauze B ) must be small compared with the number of electrons reaching it from the filament .
On the Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
other hand , it may be seen from the relative magnitudes of the currents in the parts G and K of the curve , that when the pTate is negatively charged with respect to the gauze B , the number of electrons which leave the plate is comparable with the number which reach it from the filament .
This difference is to be expected , since any positive ions , produced by ionisation , will escape from the surface less readily than electrons .
In seeking evidence of ionisation at the bombarded surface , such as would be afforded by the detection of positive ions leaving the surface , it is clearly desirable to arrange the experiment so that any current due to positive ions is not superposed upon the large current due to the electron emission from the filament , but is investigated independently .
Experiments for this purpose are described in the next section of this paper .
Experiments to Test for the Liberation of Positive Ions at the Minimum Electron Velocity at which the Production of Secondary Bays Begins .
In the preceding section , it has been pointed out that , in seeking evidence of the production of positive ions at the metal surface as a means of ascertaining whether ionisation by electron collisions occurs , a sensitive test can only be made if the electron stream from the filament is prevented from reaching the collecting electrode .
This condition was secured by arranging the electric fields so as to turn the stream back to bombard the upper surface of one of the electrodes B or C ( fig. 3 ) .
In the earlier experiments , the electrons from the filament were accelerated up to the electrode C by a constant potential difference , Vi , and were further accelerated by a variable potential difference , V2 , applied between the electrodes C and B. A constant difference of potential was maintained between the gauze B and the plate A. This opposed the electron stream , and was large enough to prevent any of the electrons from the filament from reaching the plate , even for the highest values of V2 employed .
The cathode rays thus bombarded the upper surface of the gauze B , which was charged positively with respect to the plate A. Since the potential difference V3 is in all cases greater than ( Vi + V2 ) , no electrons reflected from B could possibly reach A , and the electrometer B C aJ D Fig. 3 .
Path of electrons represented thus \#151 ; s- .
Path of positive ions represented thus---------- i Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and 31 should not indicate a current until some effect , other than reflexion of the cathode rays , occurs at the bombarded surface .
It was found that the electrometer measured a positive current , beginning when ( Vi + V2 ) was about 11 volts , and increasing rapidly as this potential difference was further increased .
It is possible to account for this current in two ways :\#151 ; las being due to the collection of positive ions produced by ionisation at the surface of the electrode B by the bombardment of the cathode rays .
' 2 .
As being due to the liberation of electrons from the collecting electrode by the photo-electric action of a radiation produced by the impacts of the cathode rays on the surface of B. In order to discriminate between these two possible explanations , experiments were made in which the electric fields were arranged so that the electron stream bombarded the upper surface of the electrode C , with a velocity which could be varied by varying Vi , and the field Y3 was such that positive ions liberated from the bombarded electrode C would cause the electrometer to indicate a positive current , while the photo-electric action of a radiation produced by electron impacts would tend to cause the electrometer to indicate a negative current .
This arrangement was secured by making the potential difference Y3 small ( about 3 volts ) , and opposite in direction to V2 , so that positive ions liberated from the electrode C , and driven towards the gauze B by the large field opposing the electron stream , would still be able to reach A. The small potential difference Y3 enables any photo-electrically active fadiation produced to liberate electrons from the upper surface of the gauze B , and thus cause a deflexion of the electrometer in the opposite direction to that given by positive ions .
Fig. 4 is a typical example of the curves showing the variation of the measured current with increasing accelerating potential difference obtained under these conditions .
It may be seen that a positive current is measured , beginning when the applied accelerating potential difference Vi has a value between 10 and 11 volts , and increasing rapidly with increasing values of the velocity of impact .
This experiment therefore proves that , when the electrons emitted by the glowing filament fall through a potential difference of 10 or 11 volts , some of them are able to produce ionisation at the surface of the platinum plate .
The actual velocity with which electrons bombard the plate in the experiment is greater than that corresponding to the applied potential difference , on account of the velocity with which they are emitted from the filament , but a correction to the applied potential difference to allow for this does not jeem to have been always made by other investigators .
The potential difference mentioned above is about that which has been Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
found by Frank and Hertz and by other experimenters to be the potential difference through which an electron must fall in order to produce ionisation in hydrogen .
Kecently , Davis and Goucher* have investigated the ionisation of hydrogen more fully by a method capable of discriminating between ionisation and the photo-electric effects of a radiation , and have concluded from their results that , at a minimum electron velocity of 11 volts , both / / y r / / / / J #3\#174 ; 10 15 20 Accelerating P. D. , ( Vj ) Volts .
Fig. 4 .
ionisation and radiation are produced .
They also claim to have detected the production of a second type of radiation at 136 volts and a second type of ionisation at 15-8 volts .
Their results regarding the occurrence of two types of ionisation are in agreement with the experiments of Bishop.f * B. Davis and F. S. Goucher , 'Phys .
Rev. , ' vol. 10 , p. 101 ( 1917 ) .
t F. M. Bishop , ' Phys. Rev. , ' vol. 10 , p. 244 ( 1917 ) .
E ffects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
.*33 It has been mentioned earlier that the fact that the excitation of secondary rays from an impacted metal plate begins when the electrons fall through an applied potential difference of between 10 and 11 volts , led to the suggestion that the rays were produced by ionisation of hydrogen attached to the metal surface .
The proof that a genuine ionisation by electron impacts occurs at this point is given by the experiments described at the beginning of this section .
Conclusive evidence that the material ionised is hydrogen would be available if it could be established that ionisation of hydrogen begins at precisely the same electron velocity as the ionisation at the impacted surface , and that all the other effects found to occur with hydrogen occur also at the same critical velocities when the electrodes are bombarded in the absence of gas .
On the other hand , the absence , in the case of the bombarded platinum , of some of the effects observed in hydrogen would not necessarily disprove the suggestion that it is this gas which is being ionised at the platinum surface , since hydrogen under normal conditions is in the molecular state , while such evidence as is available as to the condition of hydrogen contaminating a metal surface points to its being in the atomic state.* In attempting to establish the identity of the material ionised , the critical electron velocity at which ionisation could first be detected was carefully investigated for different temperatures of the filament .
Every determination of the minimum applied potential difference at which positive ions could be detected was followed immediately by an estimation of the correction to be applied to give the velocity of the swiftest electrons present when this potential difference was applied from the cells .
Assuming that the swiftest electrons which bombard the platinum surface are numerous enough to produce a measurable amount of ionisation , this critical value gives the minimum electron velocity at which the effect occurs .
In the accurate determinations of the critical velocity for the production of ionisation at the bombarded surface , the uncorrected values obtained directly from the current-potential difference curves were in all cases between 10 and 11 volts .
In obtaining the correction , the directions of the fields were the same as in the actual experiments for the detection of ionisation , and as in these experiments , A i was the only varying field .
The potential difference V2 opposing the electron stream was maintained at some constant value , smaller than the value of the applied potential difference at which ionisation was first detected .
The potential difference V3 , which was such as to drive electrons towards the collecting electrode , was 3 volts in most of the experiments for determining the correction .
This ensured the collection of any electrons * O. W. Richardson , J. Nicol , and T. Parnell , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' vol. 8 , p. 1 ( 1904 ) .
VOL. XCV1I.\#151 ; A. T ) 34 Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
from the filament which succeeded in reaching the gauze B against ' the opposing potential difference V2 , and which passed through this gauze .
The difference between the values of Vi and V2 when a current was first detected gave the correction to be added to the potential difference Vx to give the velocity of the swiftest electrons present .
This was found to have a positive value ranging from 2*5 volts to 2*9 volts under different conditions .
The mean of all the corrected values gave 13'0 volts as the critical electron velocity for the production of ionisation .
It appears from this result that the ionisation produced when slow cathode rays fall upon a platinum plate requires a minimum electron velocity which does not agree with the usually accepted value of the ''ionisation potential " of hydrogen ( 11 volts ) .
We next tested to see " whether a sudden increase of ionisation occurred anywhere in the neighbourhood of 15'8 volts , but no sign of a sudden bend in the current curve could be detected .
The continuous increase of current which was measured over a range extending up to 20 volts is well illustrated by the curve of fig. 4 , which is typical of the results obtained in these experiments .
In testing for the production of a radiation , the electric field V3 was increased to 35 volts so as to prevent the positive ions from reaching the collecting electrode .
Under these conditions , the electrometer should indicate no current unless the electron impacts on the metal surface give rise to a radiation capable of acting photo-electrically on the metal , or until the impacts of the positive ions , which are turned back to bombard the upper surface of the gauze B , fig. 5 , cause electrons to leave that surface.* On testing , it was found that the electrometer gave no indication of any current even when the electron velocity had been raised to 30 volts .
Thus no detectable amount of photo-electrically active radiation is produced by the impact of electrons on a platinum surface with velocities up to this value .
According to Bohr 's theory it would appear to be always possible to produce radiation from electron impacts with atoms for lower electron velocities than those necessary to produce ionisation , since the latter corresponds to the complete removal of * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 95 , A , p. 333 ( 1919 ) .
B C 01 v3 v2 V , Fig. 5 .
Path of electrons represented thus \#151 ; .
Path of positive ions represented thus--------- .
Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
35 an electron from the atom , while in the former case the electron merely suffers a displacement within the atom .
In many of the experiments that have been made with metallic vapours , and in some of the experiments with gases , radiation has been detected at lower electron velocities than ionisation .
It might , therefore , be expected that since cathode rays falling upon platinum produce ionisation at 13 volts , they would give rise to radiation at some smaller velocity of impact .
That such a radiation can be produced from metal plates when bombarded by slow cathode rays has been demonstrated by Sir J. J. Thomson , who , by the use of a photographic method , has recently detected the production of radiation by electrons with velocities as low as 10 volts* The detection , in the present experiments , of radiation from the platinum atoms would depend upon the power of this radiation to act photo-electrically on a surface of the same metal as that from which it would be produced .
It is , moreover , to be observed that the relative magnitudes of the currents due to radiation and to ionisation in a case where both are produced must depend upon the characteristics of the apparatus employed to detect them .
Before concluding from the absence of radiation that the ionisation at 13 volts is not due to hydrogen , it was therefore necessary to ascertain whether , with the form of apparatus used in these experiments , the radiation produced in hydrogen was easily measurable when the ionisation was of the magnitude of that taking place at the platinum surface .
An Investigation of the Production of Radiation and Ionisation by Electron Collisions in Hydrogen .
The hydrogen used in these experiments was allowed to diffuse into the apparatus through a palladium tube heated in a Bunsen flame .
The pressures used varied in different experiments from 0'015 mm. to 0'45 mm. The methods of experiment were those used in testing for ionisation and radiation in the experiments already described , and the range of filament temperatures was about the same as before .
On account of the limitations imposed by the form of the present apparatus ( which was not designed for the investigation of the effects of electron collisions with gases ) the critical electron velocities for hydrogen could not be detected with the same degree of certainty as would have been possible with the apparatus used in our experiments with helium and argon , but there can be no doubt that the results obtained give a general indication of the effects which occur .
The investigation of the production of radiation in hydrogen was carried out at various pressures and a radiation was first detected when the velocity .of the electron stream reached about 10'5 volts .
Many of the radiation * Sir J. J. Thomson , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' vol. 28 , p. 620 ( 1914 ) .
Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
curves obtained showed a distinct bend indicating the occurrence of a new type of radiation at an electro* velocity of about 139 volts .
Both the critical voltages mentioned are thS values obtained by adding to the potential difference applied from the battery , a correction determined experimentally in the manner described in the last section .
The magnitude of the radiation currents produced by collisions of the 10'5 volt type was small compared with the magnitude of the radiation currents resulting from the second type of radiating collision .
In some instances it escaped detection altogether , but careful investigations at pressures of about 0*02 mm. to 0'07 mm. leave no doubt as to the production of radiation at 105 volts .
Fig. 6 is a typical 6 8 10 12 14 Accelerating P. D. ; .
( V , ) volts .
Fig. 6 .
example of the radiation curves obtained at low pressures .
This shows radiation of the first type beginning when the applied potential difference is 7*8 volts and radiation of the second type beginning when the applied potential difference is 11*3 volts .
The production of ionisation in hydrogen was investigated by two methods .
In one of these the direction of the field V3 was arranged so as to cause radiation to give a current in the opposite direction to that due to ionisation .
) Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
37 In the other method the effects of radiation were eliminated as far as possible by making V3 zero .
In the experiments by the latter method , a positive current ( showing the occurrence of ionisation ) was first detected when the electron velocity was about 13 volts and distinct bends in the current-potential difference curve were obtained at values of the applied potential difference corresponding to electron velocities of about 14*4 volts and 16'9 volts respectively .
These are the mean corrected values found from several experiments .
The uncorrected values of the potential difference at which these points occurred in a typical case , may be seen by reference to fig. 7 , 5 10 15 Accelerating P. D. , ( V , ) volts .
Fig. 7 .
which gives the results of a series of observations in hydrogen at a pressure of 0'073 mm. with the filament at a temperature of 1400 ' C. In investigating the production of ionisation in hydrogen by this method it must be borne in mind that the photo-electric effect of the radiation produced in the gas may not be completely eliminated by making V3 zero , for it is probable that the radiation falls unequally on the collecting electrode , and on the surrounding cylinder and gauze B. On account of the velocity of emission of the photoelectrons , the electrode which receives more radiation will gain a positive charge , and thus , when radiation is produced from the gas , there may be a resultant photo-electric current in the same direction as a current due to ionisation , so that a bend in curves like those of fig. 7 might possibly be due to radiation , and not , as we have stated above , to ionisation of the gas .
Of the three critical velocities deduced from the curves of fig. 7 , only that at Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
14*4 volts is sufficiently near to a critical velocity for radiation for it to be reasonable to suggest that it is due to the latter cause .
That a second type of ionisation is really produced at this point was , however , shown by the tests made by the method in which a constant potential difference was maintained between the collecting electrode and the neighbouring gauze , so as to cause radiation to give an electrometer deflexion in the opposite direction to that given by the collection of positive ions .
Observations by this method confirmed the existence of three critical velocities for ionisation at about the points indicated in fig. 7 .
The first of the corrected values of the critical electron velocities found in these ionisation experiments is identical with the corrected value of the minimum electron velocity at which ionisation was detected when slow cathode rays bombarded platinum .
This suggests that ionisation of the same material is occurring in both cases , and might at first be thought to provide evidence that the material ionised at the platinum surface is hydrogen , in which case 13'0 volts would be the " ionisation potential " of the hydrogen atom , and 144 volts and 16*9 volts would be assumed to correspond to ionisation of the hydrogen molecule .
Arguments are advanced below to show that the ionisation detected at the first critical velocity , 13'0 volts , is not due to hydrogen , and it is concluded that the critical velocity 14J4 volts corresponds to the ionisation of the hydrogen atom and the critical velocity 16'9 volts corresponds to the ionisation of the hydrogen molecule .
The following consideration shows that the ionisation produced by electrons with 13'0 volts velocity cannot be due to hydrogen .
When ionisation occurs at a metal surface , it can only be produced from the layer of molecules or atoms just at the surface , but in the investigation of the ionisation of hydrogen the thickness of the layer of gas throughout which the electrons have sufficient velocity to cause ionisation increases continuously as the velocity of the electrons is increased beyond the critical value .
It therefore follows that if 13 0 volts is the " ionisation potential " for hydrogen , the ionisation which has been found to begin at this voltage ( irrespective of whether hydrogen is present or not ) should increase at a more rapid rate when hydrogen is present than it does in a high vacuum .
On the other hand , if hydrogen is not ionised until the electron velocity reaches 14'4 volts , we should expect the currents measured when the electron velocity is between 13*0 volts and 14'4 volts to be smaller when the apparatus contains hydrogen than when it is exhausted , because , in the former case , some of the electrons will lose energy by impact with hydrogen molecules , and so bombard the platinum surface with a smaller velocity than when no gas is present .
An investigation of the rates of increase of the ionisation currents in the two cases was made by Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
39 plotting together pairs of current-potential difference curves for which the filament temperatures were the same , one curve of each pair being a high vacuum curve and the other being for some definite pressure of hydrogen .
Fig. 8 is a typical example of such a pair of curves ; the dotted curve shows + k Z .
in 4 a a. o the currents obtained in the absence of gas and the continuous curve the currents obtained in hydrogen .
It may be seen that both curves show a positive current which begins at an applied potential difference of 10'5 volts , but this current increases more slowly in the presence of hydrogen than it does in a high vacuum until the potential difference reaches the value 11 " 8 volts , after which the hydrogen curve shows the more rapid rate of current increase .
From this it may be concluded that the hydrogen is not ionised until the applied potential difference Yi reaches the value 11*8 volts , and that the ionisation which begins when Yx is 10*5 volts is not due to hydrogen .
The correction to be applied to these values was found to be 2*7 volts for both the curves given in fig. 8 , so that the electron velocities corresponding to the critical potential differences are 13'2 volts and 14-5 volts respectively .
Further evidence that the ionisation which begins at 13 volts is not due to hydrogen , was obtained from experiments in which the currents due to ionisation and those due to radiation in this gas were measured independently under corresponding conditions .
Experiments of this kind were made for a considerable range of hydrogen pressures and filament temperatures , and , with the exception of a few instances at the highest pressures , a current due to radiation of the first type ( that which is produced by electrons with a velocity of 10'5 volts ) was always detected .
In every case the effects 1 1 1 \#171 ; 1 1 $ 1 1 j 4 / / !
\gt ; 1 / / ) ^9 L_ / l , i .
.1--i \#166 ; i i 8 10 12 14 .
16 Accelerating P. D. , ( V , ) volts .
Fig. 8 .
Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
of radiation of the second type ( 13*9 volts ) were observed .
On the other hand , in the high vacuum experiments , no radiation of either type was ever detected .
The radiation curve in tig .
6 and the continuous curve in tig .
8 ( ionisation ) afford an example of the relative magnitudes of the currents due to radiation and those due to ionisation in hydrogen , measured independently under corresponding conditions .
Fig. 6 shows that radiation of the first type is easily measurable when the ionisation produced between applied potential differences of 10'5 volts and 11*8 volts is of the magnitude shown in the continuous curve of fig. 8 .
From the latter figure , it is clear that the ionisation current between these voltages is greater in the high vacuum experiment than in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
We may assume that radiation of the first type is produced from atomic hydrogen , in which form the gas is known to exist when it is present in platinum .
It follows , therefore , that the radiation current corresponding to an ionisation current of the magnitude shown in the dotted curve of fig. 8 should be easily measurable if this ionisation is produced from hydrogen .
Thus , the fact that radiation is not detected in the high vacuum experiments is a proof that the effects observed are not due to hydrogen at the platinum surface .
Summary of Experimental Results .
The results of the experiments described in the foregoing pages are summarised below:\#151 ; 1 .
The reflexion of slow moving cathode rays at a negatively-charged platinum surface for small velocities of the electron stream , and the excitation of secondary rays , with a maximum velocity of emission of about 10 volts , for higher velocities of the electron stream , have been verified , though no exact quantitative observations have been made .
2 .
It has been shown that the excitation of secondary rays is a genuine ionisation effect , and that it begins at a minimum electron velocity of 13*0 volts .
No sign of the production of a radiation capable of acting photo-electrically on platinum was detected in the special experiments made to investigate this .
3 .
It has been proved by admitting hydrogen into the apparatus that the ionisation which begins at 13*0 volts is not due to hydrogen attached to the platinum surface , and is therefore probably produced from the metal itself .
4 .
The investigation of the effects of electron collisions with hydrogen has shown:\#151 ; a. That a radiation is produced at a minimum electron velocity of 10*5 volts .
I Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
41 / 3 .
That a second type of radiation is produced , beginning when the electron velocity reaches 139 volts .
y. That ionisation of the gas occurs at a minimum electron velocity of 14*4 volts .
8 .
That a second type of ionisation begins when the electron velocity reaches 16'9 volts .
A Discussion of the Results obtained with Hydrogen .
In view of the simple structure assumed for the hydrogen atom , the experimental investigation of the effects of electron collisions with this gas is of particular interest , since it provides a direct test of the validity of Bohr 's theory .
A comparison of the critical electron velocities obtained in this research with those deduced from Bohr 's theory is given in the following table:\#151 ; Critical electron velocities ( volts ) .
Radiation Ionisation Radiation Ionisation Dissociation from the of the from the of the of the atom .
atom .
molecule .
molecule .
molecule .
Calculated from Bohr 's theory ... 10 -2 13 -6 \#151 ; 16 -3 2 7 Determined experimentally 10 -5 14 -4 13 9 16 -9 2-5 The theoretical value of the " ionisation potential " for the molecule is calculated on the view that the ionisation results in the production of an electron , a positive nucleus , and a neutral atom .
The values obtained in this research for the first critical velocity at which radiation is produced , and for the two critical velocities at which ionisation is produced , are all rather higher than the calculated values .
It has , however , been pointed out that the corrected values of the critical velocities are those of the swiftest electrons present when the effect is first detected , and the assumption has been made that the number of electrons with the maximum velocity iS sufficient to give a detectable amount of radiation or ionisation .
The velocity distribution curves obtained in these experiments showed that only a small percentage of the total number of electrons in the bombarding stream has the maximum velocity .
It is therefore possible that , by deducing the correction from this maximum , the values obtained for the critical electron velocities are higher than those which actually produced the effect detected .
This is particularly the case where the current due to the effect to be observed is superposed on a Prof. F. Horton and Miss A. C. Davies .
current due to an effect produced at a lower voltage .
It therefore seems probable that the value determined for the first / critical electron velocity ( producing radiation at 10'5 volts ) is likely to be more nearly correct than the values of the other critical electron velocities found for hydrogen .
In the case of the radiation experiments , the current due to the second type of radiation has to be detected in the presence of the current due to the radiation of the first type .
In the ionisation experiments , the current due to the ionisation of hydrogen atoms is superposed on the current due to ionisation at the platinum surface , and the current produced by the second type of ionisation has to be detected in the presence of both these ionisation currents .
In this connection it is significant that all the experimental results are higher than the theoretical values , and that the agreement between the experimental and the theoretical values is closest in the case of the first critical velocity , which we have seen above probably approximates most nearly to the true value .
Since Bohr has shown that ionisation of the hydrogen molecule is most likely to involve the breaking up of the molecule into an electron , a positive ion , and a neutral atom , the difference between the " ionisation potential " of the hydrogen molecule and that of the hydrogen atom should give a measure of the energy required to dissociate the molecule into neutral atoms .
The calculated and observed values of this difference are given in the last column of the table .
It will be seen that , although the observed " ionisation potentials " are higher than those required by Bohr 's theory , there is fairly good agreement between the theoretical and experimental values of the critical velocity for dissociation .
This might perhaps be expected , since any error in the correction applied to the measured potential difference would probably be the same in the case of each " ionisation potential .
" In hydrogen , under ordinary conditions , there are very few , if any , free atoms present , and if we are to assume , as we have done , that electron collisions with free hydrogen atoms take place in these experiments , the presence of these atoms must be accounted for .
As far as the available evidence goes , it seems unlikely that much thermal dissociation of the gas takes place at the temperature of the filament , but an explanation of the presence of free hydrogen atoms is at once to hand if dissociation is produced by electron impacts at speeds of 2-5 volts or more .
On this view it might perhaps be expected that a second radiation point would be detected corresponding to the stage at which the same electron collision could dissociate the molecule into atoms , and cause one of these atoms to emit radiation .
The electron velocity at which this might be expected to occur in our experiments is 10'5 volts+ 2'5 volts = 13'0 volts .
It might perhaps be suggested that the Effects of Electron Collisions with Platinum and Hydrogen .
4 3 radiation detected at 13-9 volts is produced in this way , but we are inclined to think that the discrepancy between the value 13'0 volts , deduced from the velocity at which the first type of radiation is produced and the experi mentally determined value , 13'9 volts , at which the second type of radiation begins , is greater than could be accounted for by experimental errors .
An alternative explanation of the production of the second type of radiation , detected at 13-9 volts in these experiments , is that it is produced from the hydrogen molecule as a result of the return of the electrons to their normal orbit after being displaced by the collision of an electron with a minimum velocity of this amount .
The results of Davis and Goucher 's investigations with hydrogen have already been given .
The critical velocities obtained by these investigators are not in very good agreement with those obtained in the present research , but the most important difference between their results and ours lies in the fact that they have concluded that at the first critical velocity ( 11 volts in their experiments ) ionisation and radiation occur simultaneously .
This involves an explanation based upon the splitting up of the molecule at this point , since radiation and ionisation cannot both be produced at the same .
minimum electron velocity from hydrogen atoms if their structure is the simple one usually assumed .
Bohr 's theory of the structure of hydrogen atoms and molecules receives general support from the results of the experiments with hydrogen described in this paper , but it is desirable that the accuracy of the actual values of the critical velocities should be tested by experiments with an apparatus specially designed for this purpose .

