]\gt ; Prof. W. .
Hicks .
' peripheral end of the corvical sympatlJetic , and formed nerv } endings around the cells of the supelior cervical ganglion , or the had united directly with the sympathetic fibres .
That the form had taken place I infer from fact that the regenerated contained medullated fibres larger than those proper the thetic .
conclude from the experiments there i.s no essential diRe .
ence between efferent " " visceral\ldquo ; or " " involuntary\ldquo ; nerve fibre whether they leave the central vous system by way of tt cranial nerves , by way of the sncral nerves , or by way of tl spinal nerves to the sympathetic system .
All of these fibres I to be ionic fibres .
I think that any -ganglion fibre is , in ) conditions , of becoming connected wit any nerve cell wibh which a pre-ganglionic fibre is normally cm llccted ; altbough apparently this connexion does not take with equal iness in all cases .
On the whole it appears to that the functions exercised both by pre-ganglionic and by pos lionic fibres depend less upon physiological differences tha upon the connexions they have an of makin during the development of tlJe nervous stem and of the othc tissues of the body .
A fuller account of the observations will be published in ] ' Journal of Physiology , ' after some further experiments have bee made .
esearches in yortex Motion .
Part III .
On Spiral or stat1c Vortex Aggregates By .
HICKS , F.B. eceived January 12 , \mdash ; Read Fcbruary 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) A portion of the nication ( Sect. ) extends the theory { he simple spherical vortex discovered by Hill .
The chief ( Sects .
I and III ) refers , however , to a kind of gyrostatic a has brou , ht to an entirely system spiral ices .
To give an idea of the specics of motion considerec the case of motion of an finitely long cylindrical orbex sectional radius .
The velocity .
to the axis Jnside tb vortex will be of the form .
Outside it be given by where .
We may , howcver , have a motion in which the fluid moves rall .
to axis inside the cylindel with outsidc .
The be of tho form iuside , }here 1 zcro ou tsidc Bolh and lrbitrary functionls subject olJly to condj tionls f and Putt i asidc for Researches in Motion .
of the stability of these simple motions or of their resulttnt .
is clear that if we superpose the two we get another state of ; teady motion in which we have vortex filaments in the shape of lelices Iying on COIlcentric c surfaces .
The problem to be Jonsidered is whether it is possibls to conceive a similar superposidion of two motions in the case of any vortex whose motions are symmetric about an axis .
The genel.al conditions for the existence of such systems are determined in Sect. I , and are worked out in more detail for a particular case of sphel.ical aggregate in Sect. III .
It is found that bhe motion in meridian planes is determined from a certain nction in the usual manner .
The velocity along a parallel of ] tude is given by where is the distance of the point the straight or polar axis .
The function satisfies an equation of the ( when expressed where and are both fullclions of The cnse uniform , and is eated more fully .
If where is the radius of the aggregate , ' The most and remal.kable fact brought out is that as increases we a periodic system of of ates .
The members of differ from one another in the ntlmber of Iayerf ; and axes ) ossess .
to the number of lxes they called singlets , ooublets , triplets , \amp ; c. , in coutradistinction to or less fortuitous or arbitrary compounds of the former , which are considered later and called monads , dyads , iads , \amp ; c. Of lIlehe f two are investigated more in detail { hau the , both they specially interesting in their propertics because they berve as limiting cases between the different serics .
] one ( the family ) { ] ] { he members remain at rest in fluid .
In the other ( the family ) a aturc , common to all the members , is ) the lines the vortcx lines are coincident .
The ametor gives total angular pitch of the outer current sheet , in aggregates with more than one axis these lines are not one continuous line .
The first fatef , with the first value)beve abnormally .
Beyond these we get successive series , iu one set of which the velocity of tion is the same direcbion as tbc motion ccntral nucleus , in the alternate seb the velocify is opposite , and Prof. W. M. Hicks .
the aggregate regredes in the fluid as compared with its egate .
Snppose the attempt made to obtain sets of aggregat with greater and greater angular pitch .
It will be found that as the external pitch of stream lines increases the equatorial axis contracts and the surface velocity diminishes .
On the outer layers ( ring-shaped ) the spiral pitch is chiefly produced on the inner sids facing the polar axis until on the boundaly itself the stream lines lie along meridians and the vist is together on the polar axis .
The pitch cau be increased up to a certain limit .
As this is do1le the stream lines and the Iines fold up towards oue another , coirlcide at a certain pitch , and exchange sides .
When an extet.nal angular pitch of about 33 is attained it is impossible to go further if a simple aggregate is desired .
If a higher pitch is desiled the aggregate splits into bwo concenbric \mdash ; an ' porfion and an shell .
The central nucleus is .
to those jusb described\mdash ; it produces a parb of the required pitch .
The outer layer has spirals with the direction of twist which complete he balance of the pitch .
In these , however , the motion is in ection .
With increasing pitch this layer becomes thicker and its equatorial axis contracts relatively to the mid point the shell until another limit is re ched ; the stream and vortex rainb fold { ogether , cross , and expand as this second limit is reached .
lf a pitcl } still is desired there must be a third layer , and so on .
The coincidence of stream and vortex lines takes place for an egate whose } is a maximum pitch is attained the gregate is at resb in the fluid .
This is first attained when the pitch is this there are two equatorial axes .
For a pitch the stream and vortex lines again coin cid , the nucleus ives 2 of the pitch , and the outer bhell the emtiinder , and so on .
At end of the prper a theory of compound regates is developed .
lb is not worked oat in detail in communica tion , but the conditions are determined for dyad compounds , whilst a similar theory holds for triad and ones .
E$ach element of a poly-ad my consist of singlets , doublets , \amp ; c. The equations of condition allow three quantities \mdash ; as for ltJstance r olumes , of cyclic IIstants , and 1atio of secoudary cyclic coust } lts .
full development of this theory is , however , left for a iure communication .
If we any particular spherical aggregate ith given and constant , the ellelgy is determinate .
We may , howevel , altcr the energy .
If it be increased ) begins to open out into a ring form whose shape and propet .
bless havo Rpsearches in Vortex Motion .
.33.5 not yet been investigated .
If the be increased sufficiently the aperture becomes large compared with the tbickness of the coro and pproximate calcuIation is applicable .
The differential equation for in terms of toroidal -ordinates is given , but the full development is left for a future occasion .
In the paper itself the is treated purely as a qu stion o hydrodynamics , the results simply as the prope ttiefi of certain possible fluid .
It may not , vever , be out of place here to offer a few , of a more specuIative kind , on the of the on In the , gyrostatic motion of kind bear considered is nob to , which are ) Although the eory is complicated , it is easy to see thac they must exist .
In ress to Section , at the Ipswich of the Association , a vortex celI theory of the ether indicated .
The ether isted of closely packed clementq , each being a vortex fix ideas , ths of of the shaI ) of a this shape not essell ttical whel e considered not gyrostatic , but that a odihcation [ Jossible .
The imary 1 arranged in opposite di ions in :dtern ee !
is , , uot necessal.ily the case lVith the second Illotion .
be or not be in the same dhough coll ( tecide this tion .
tiou is not a necessity , ib } on daries immersed cther Lcllt s in oduce t same ffect as ( them .
Such a theor ) not eccssi } such as are in theory } , in electrical actions snch It is thab would oduce esses long and ro of { are in an lectric held .
lf a th oi- tho aggregates in ) , were possible , thti at the ry tions should not exis , at Ieast so far as lity of ion had to I In the new any on a tl espcct t should be it ortex the exact ve in this paper actual fact ) it is with refel.ence to a irrotational cannot be the in , matly gcrl evoul d simi l pcssibly the of the family .
The seconrl emark is , that the results of the paper to Prof. W. M. Hicks .
spherical , that is , all the various elements are compared , when heir euergies are equilibrium , in the artilicial association snch thab the of eacb particular eIement is that which is necessary to give it 1L spherical shape .
it possible to get general idcas .
The most striking one is the fact of the periodic property of the atoms .
The curve , for instance , or in the figure lvhich shows how the translation velocity inters with inc ] pitch of spiral , irresistibly curves connected with the physical propertics of the elements .
The abnormal commencement , the ] ascending and series suggest the at once , and open vista of possibilities before unsuspected .
For the reasons mentioned , ib would be waste of time to look as yet for any defini } informalion .
Before that can be done we must know more ) the conditions of stability , and the behaviour of such ) ggregates when their es .
It is bardly fitting perhaps to ] in wild specuIations in these pages .
In doing so , however , 1 hope they will be taken for what they are intended , merely as vague intimations of ties .
Let us then take the well known curve showing how the fusibili ties of { he elements aJter periodically with the atomic weights .
In solid body the atoms or molecules can have very little otion .
They will therefore take such forms , or their energy will bc such as to make { his { ranslation small .
Now take a spherical .
If it a large tion velocity its must he diminished to relldcr this will take a more ated form with a small velocity of translation .
In order , thereforo , to fuse the snbsta1lce more euergy must be pnt into it .
Its temperature of fnsion is .
In words , it is natural to suppose that those atoms , which when in the spherical form have a velocity , will possess high fusin points , and so on .
Without criticising this argument too closely , Iet us make the assumption that ib is so , and see what it leads to .
Now look .
figure which gives the relation between the velocity of ( lanslation dinates ) to } pitch .
We at once with the fact that we have gregales ximum velocity followed with sets of small maximum ( in the opposite direction ) .
fhis is one of the most remaricable features of the fusibility .
Suppose that the curves march togelhel : this supposition cnables us to locate roughly the regions which the elements ] , omitting the earIy ones as abnormal .
If this be done we find the metals lie on the lower peaked parts and the nonmetals on the.c.mall flat portions bove t , line of abscis , Qoe .
The following resolts follow:\mdash ; The mefals befong to haring an of layers or axes , i.e. , the tional pposite to that at rehes in to odd ] , the is in the directio the selis of the ' lin slrcnm } or : as eitp ; if , ont .
In the )scries lic ' , or lines th outermost .
In the ) of the lines lie lines , or } } lines out } fhcir lines lcidcnf .
heir onfer tl , in , the on .
Having hcil .
position , we comparc with the volumcs .
When this is done it is the tomic lltarches the moment of angular mentum of ntes .
The dne to the effect rises and of All is pecting the stabiliby of vortex rings the conl.iction that it is not opeJl to us to explain the ( lensities of mattcr as know it by different densities in the ( atoms themseJvcs .
We must ) the .
of adl atoms to be the same material as the ether itseIf .
maRses muht eforo be propo tional to the volumes .
It that tomic v , as rily understood , must depend on the paces ( in bodies their atoms .
Now clcarly akc ) spaco ] a sphere of the same , and ught to high atomic volumes to go with aperture sult , it would } } of riscs and the atom , is a higl 338 .
Cash and Prof. Dunstan .
Pharmacology of In the present state of the theory , no object is to be } pursuing these analogies .
They serve , however , to directions in which further investigation is to be carried out .
It is clear that if a magnebic field is capable of orieuting thel a substance composed of them will rotate the plar of polarisation of light .
" " The Pharmacology of Aconitine , Diacetylaconitine , Benza conine and Aconine considered in Relation to thei Chemical Constitution By J. CASH , M.D F.B.S. , and VYNDHAM R DUNSTAN , , F.li .
S. ceived January 13 , \mdash ; Read February 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation which is described in the present paper has beel carried out with pure specimens of the alkaloids aconitine , and benzaconine , the chemistl'y of which has been fully studied sinc !
1891 , by one of us in conjunction wibh assistants and pnpils , am forms the subject of numerous papers which have been communicateo to the Society , and printed in the ' Journal of the Chemica Society .
' * As these papers contain a full account of the chemical composition and properties of the various aconite alkaloids , it will nol necessary to do more llow than summarise ence t chiel perties of the substances employed in this enquiry .
is the poisonous alkaloid contained in Aconitum napellus .
Commercial specimens of aconitine vary considerably , many of them eing mixtures . .
Until quite recently pure alkaloid was not an article of commerce .
It is a alline base , very sparingly uble in water , but readily dissolved by alcohol .
Its alcoholic soIution is dextro-rotatory , whilst solutions of its salts very dilute solutions produce a istic t and umbness on tongue and lips .
The alkaloid suffers decomposition when heated to its poinl ; a lecular proportion of acetic acid is lost , and an alkuloid pyra onifine xemains .
hydrolysis of the alkaloid occurs in two stages .
In the first , which is best effected by heating a salt of aconitine in a closed tube with water , a molecular proportion of acetic acid is fornled , and * ' Chem. Soc. Journ 1891\mdash ; 1897 .
Dunstan and Ince , 'Chem .
Soc. Jouln .
, ' 1891 , vol. mney , , 1892 , vol. 61 , p. 381 Dunstan and .
Soc. Jonru 1893 , ] .
S Dunstan and Ince , Dunstan and Cart , ibrd .
, 1894 , vol. Dunstan and Carr , ibid. , vol. 65 , p. 290 .

