875.1 On Attraction and Repulsion from Radiation .
When a simple salt assumes one or more definite states of hydration at liferent temperatures below 100 ' C. , the hydrated compounds A and B ill be successively produced in the liquid state if a saturated solution of le oi^ginal salt be heated to 100 ' C. ; or , in other words , the chemical institution of the liquid is altered so that , as higher temperatures are ; tained , it becomes a solution of substance A or of substance B , at itermediate temperatures mixtures of these .
V. The action of heat on the violet hydrated compounds of chromium is ot simply a dissociation of water-molecules or of acid from base , but a me decomposition , resulting in the production of a different class of fits with different generic properties .
Many new salts were prepared for this work , and others were examined Ith greater care than had previously been bestowed on them ; from bese substances , indeed , the most important part of the results were erived .
I. " On Attraction and Repulsion resulting from Radiation."\#151 ; Part II .
By William Crookes , Jf .
R.S. \amp ; c. Received March 20 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) This is the second part of a paper which the author sent to the Royal ociety in August 1873 .
The author commences by describing improve-ients which he has made in the Sprengel pump , and in various accesses which are necessary when working at the highest rarefactions .
Continuing the description of apparatus , the author describes different ew forms which enable the phenomena of repulsion by radiation to be ..served and illustrated .
A bulb 3 inches in diameter is^blown at the end \#163 ; a glass tube 18 inches long .
In this bulb a fine glass stem , with a ahere or disk of pith \amp ; c. at each end , is suspended by means of a cocoon-bre .
The whole is attached to the Sprengel pump in such a way that can be perfectly exhausted and then hermetically sealed .
Besides pith , ie terminals may be made of cork , ivory , metal , or other substance , during exhaustion several precautions have to be taken , which are fully atered into in the paper .
To get the greatest delicacy in an apparatus \#163 ; this kind , there is required large surface with a minimum of weight , m apparatus constructed with the proper precautions is so sensitive to cat , that a touch with the finger on a part of the globe near one extremity of the pith will drive the index round over 90 ' , whilst it follows a 2 a 2 374 .
Mr. W. Crookes on Attraction and [ Apr. | piece of ice as a needle follows a magnet .
With a large bulb , very vl exhausted and containing a suspended bar of pith , a somewhat strike effect is produced when a lighted candle is placed about 2 inches from ie globe .
The pith bar commences to oscillate to and fro , the swing gradual increasing in amplitude until the dead centre is passed over , wli several complete revolutions are made .
The torsion of the suspend : fibre now offers resistance to the revolutions , and the bar commences -\gt ; turn in the opposite direction .
This movement is kept up with grt energy and regularity as long as the candle bums .
The author discusses the action of ice , or a cold substance , on the s -pended index .
Cold being simply negative heat , it is not at first sift obvious how it can produce the opposite effect to heat .
The auth , however , explains this by the law of exchanges , and shows that attracts by a cold body is really repulsion by radiation falling on the oppos ?
side .
According to the same law , it is not difficult to foresee wl will be the action of two bodies , each free to move , if they i ?
brought near to one another in space , and if they differ in temperate either from each other or from the limiting walls of the space .
1 * author gives four typical cases , with experiments , which prove his n-soning to be correct .
Experiments are described with the object of ascertaining whether is attraction by heat , which , commencing at the neutral point , increas with the density of the enclosed air , will be continued in the same ra if the apparatus is filled with air above the atmospheric pressure .
T is found to be the case .
Various experiments are described with bulb-apparatus , in which t bulb is surrounded with a shell containing various adiathermous liqui and also with a shell of vacuum .
In all cases radiation passed throuf producing the normal action of attraction in air and repulsion in vacuum .
The author next describes a form of apparatus by which measural results are attainable .
It consists of a long glass tube , with a wic piece at the end .
In it is suspended a lump of magnesium by a very fi platinum wire , the distance between the point of suspension and t centre of gravity of the magnesium bob being 39'14 inches .
Near tl magnesium is a platinum spiral , capable of being ignited by a volt* battery .
Observations of the movement of the pendulum are ma with a telescope with micrometer eyepiece .
With this apparatus a lar series of experiments are described , starting from air of normal densff and working at intermediate pressures up to the best attainable vacuui The results are given in two tables .
With this apparatus it wras found that a candle-flame brought with a few inches of the magnesium weight , or its image focused on the weig ) and alternately obscured and exposed by a piece of card at intervals : one second , will soon set the pendulum in vibration when the vacuum $75 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
375 ay good .
A ray of sunlight allowed to fall once on the pendulum will amediately set it swinging .
The form of apparatus is next described which the author has finally [ opted , as combining the greatest delicacy with facility of obtaining curate observations , and therefore of getting quantitative as well as lalitative results .
It consists of a glass apparatus in the shape of an verted T , and containing a horizontal glass beam suspended by a very ie glass thread .
At the extremities of the beam are attached the sub-ances to be experimented on , and at the centre of the beam is a small irror from which a ray of light is reflected on to a graduated scale .
The Ivantage which a glass thread possesses over a cocoon-fibre is that the dex always comes accurately back to zero .
In order to keep the minous index at zero , except when experiments are being tried , extreme .ecautions must be taken to keep all extraneous radiation from acting on e torsion-balance .
The whole apparatus is closely packed all round ith a layer of cotton-wool about 6 inches thick , and outside this is ranged a double row of Winchester quart bottles filled with water , iaces only being left for the radiation to fall on the balance and for the dex ray of light to get to the mirror .
However much the results may vary when the vacuum is imperfect , ith an apparatus of this kind they always agree among themselves hen the residual gas is reduced to the minimum possible ; and it is of ) consequence what this residual gas is .
Thus , starting with the appa-\#187 ; tus full of various vapours and gases , such as air , carbonic acid , water , dine , hydrogen , ammonia , \amp ; c. , at the highest rarefaction , there is not und any difference in the results which can be traced to the residual is .
A hydrogen-vacuum appears the same as a water- or an iodine-euum .
With this apparatus the effect of exposing a torsion-balance to a con-nuous radiation is described , and the results are shown graphically .
The feet of a short ( 11*3 seconds ) exposure to radiation is next described , id the results are given in the form of a Table .
In another Table is given the results of experiments in which a constant urce of radiation was allowed to act upon one end of the torsion-beam a distance of 140 or 280 millims. , various substances being interposed , be sensitiveness of this apparatus to heat-rays appears to be greater an that of an ordinary thermo-multiplier .
Thus the obscure heat-rays om copper at 100 ' , passing through glass , produce a deflection on the ale of 3*25 , whilst under the same circumstances no current is detected the thermo-pile .
The following substances are used as screens , and '\#169 ; deflections produced ( when the source of radiation is magnesium fro , a standard candle , copper at 400 ' , and copper at 100 ' ) are tabu-ted:\#151 ; Bock-salt , 20 millims. thick ; rock-crystal , 42 millims. thick ; dark aoky talc j plate glass of various thicknesses , both white and green : a Mr. W. Crookes on Attraction and [ Apr. \gt ; glass cell containing 8 millims. of water ; a plate of alum 5 millims. th : calc-spar , 27 millims. thick ; ammonio-sulphate of copper , opaque to i below E ; ditto , opaque to rays below Gr .
The author considers that these experiments show that the repuk n is not entirely due to the rays usually called heat , i. e. to the extree and ultra red of the spectrum .
Experiments have been tried with e electric and the solar spectrum formed with a quartz train , which pr r the action to be also exerted by the luminous and ultra violet rays .
Sec numerical data have been obtained but unfavourable weather has p vented many observations being made with the solar spectrum .
The barometric position of the neutral point dividing attraction fi ; repulsion is next discussed .
The position of this point varies with density of the substance on whicji radiation falls , the ratio of its masf its surface , its radiating and conducting-power for heat , the physical c dition of its surface , the kind of gas filling the apparatus , the intern* of radiation , and the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere . .
author is inclined to believe that the true action of radiation is repuls at any pressure , and that the attraction observed when the rarefactioi below the neutral point is caused by some modifying circumstan connected with the surrounding gas , but not being of the nature of i currents .
The neutral point for a thin surface of pith being low , and that a moderately thick piece of platinum being high , it follows that at a ra faction intermediate between these two points pith will be repell and that platinum will be attracted by the same beam of radiate This is proved experimentally ; and an apparatus showing simultane( attraction and repulsion by the same ray of light is described and illi trated in the paper .
The paper concludes with a discussion of the various theories wh : have been adduced in explanation of these phenomena .
The air-cum and electrical theory are considered to have been abundantly disprove The following experiment is given by the author to show that Pr Osborne Reynolds 's hypothesis of the movements due to evapo tion and condensation at the surface will not account for all the facts the case , and that therefore he has not hit upon the true explanatic A thick and strong bulb was blown at the end of a piece of very dil cultly fusible green glass , specially made for steam-boiler gauges .
In was supported a thin bar of aluminium at the end of a long platini wire .
The upper end of the wire was passed through the top of the tu and well sealed in , for electrical purposes .
The apparatus was sealed fusion to the Sprengel pump , and exhaustion was kept going on for t ' days , until an induction-spark refused to pass across the vacuum .
Duri this time the bulb and its contents were several times raised to a dull r heat .
At the end of two days ' exhaustion the tube was found to beha in the same manner as , but in a stronger degree than , it would in a k 875 .
] Repulsion resulting from .
erfectly exhausted apparatus , viz. it was repelled by heat of low inten-ty and attracted by cold .
A similar experiment was next tried , only ?
ater was placed in the bulb before exhaustion .
The water was then oiled away in vacuo , and the exhaustion continued , with frequent eating of the apparatus to dull redness , for about 48 hours .
At lie end of this time the bar of aluminium was found to behave xactly the same as the one in the former experiment , being repelled by adiation .
It is impossible to conceive that in these experiments sufficient con-ensable gas or vapour was present to produce the effects Prof. Osborne Reynolds ascribes to it .
After the repeated heating to redness at the dghest attainable exhaustion , it is impossible that sufficient vapour or ; as should condense on the movable index to be instantly driven off by he warmth of the finger with recoil enough to drive backwards a heavy )iece of metal .
While objecting to the theories already advanced as not accounting or all the facts of the case , the author confesses that he is not as yet \gt ; repared with one to put in their place .
He wishes to avoid giving any heory on the subject until a sufficient number of facts have been accunra-ated .
The facts will then tell their own tale .
The conditions under which they invariably occur will give the laws , and the theory will follow without much difficulty .
Supplement .
Received April 20 , 1875 .
Since the experiments mentioned in the foregoing Abstract were con-eluded , the author has examined more fully the action of radiation on slack and white surfaces .
At the highest exhaustion heat appears to act almost equally on white and on lampblacked pith , repelling them in about the same degree .
The action of the luminous rays , however , is different .
These repel the black surface more energetically than they do the white surface .
Taking advantage of this fact , the author has constructed an instrument which he calls a radiometer .
This consists of four arms , suspended on a steel point resting on a cup , so that it is capable of revolving horizontally .
To the extremity of each arm is fastened a thin disk of pith , lampblacked on one side , the black surfaces facing the same way .
The whole is enclosed in a glass globe , which is then exhausted to the highest attainable point and hermetically sealed .
The author finds that this instrument revolves under the influence of radiation , the rapidity of revolution being in proportion to the intensity of the incident rays .
Several radiometers , of various constructions as regards details , but all depending on the above-named discovery , were exhibited by the author at the Soiree of the Royal Society on the 7th inst .
, and numerous experiments On Attraction and Repulsion from Radiation .
[ Apr. 29 were shown with them .
The following Table , which gives the result o ; some experiments tried with one of the first-made radiometers ( and there fore not so sensitive as more recent instruments ) , is copied from a card which was distributed during the evening:\#151 ; " Time required for One E-evolution .
" Source of radiation .
" 1 candle , 20 inches off Time in seconds .
_____ .
182 it 10 , , 5 2 candles , 5 4 \gt ; \gt ; 5 " 8 , , 5 , , 1 candle , 5 " behind green glass . .
" blue " . .
" purple " . .
" orange . .
" yellow " . .
" light red " . .
Diffused daylight , dull .
" " bright Dull sunshine , 10 a.m. Y " " 2 p.m. .
45 11 5 * 1-fi 40 38 28 26 21 20 2*3 1*7 0-3 0-25 " These experiments are not mentioned in the paper of which the abov\lt ; is an abstract , as it is intended to make the radiometer the subject of i future communication to the Society .
Mr. Lockyer communicated some particulars of the Eclipse of the Sun April 6th , as observed at Bangkok , Siam .
April 29 , 1875 .
The DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE , K.G. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Eight Hon. W. E. Forster and the Eight Hon. Russell Gumej were admitted into the Society .
The Eight Hon. Sir James Colville , whose certificate had been suspended , as prescribed by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected !
Fellow of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered foi them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ;

