444 Mr. Mallet on the Mechanism of [ May 2 , had ruptured , and haemorrhage had taken place into the decidua ; in one ca\gt ; only , in which bleeding had not begun , had a Graafian follicle been ru tured .
The latter statement appears opposed to the conclusions at whi I have arrived ; but this is only apparent ; for in one case a follicle h ; ruptured , in four a Graafian follicle had matured before haemorrhage bega and in one of these rupture was on the eve of taking place ; in eightet a follicle had ruptured , and haemorrhage had taken place into the decidi menstrualis .
Put in this form , Reichert 's cases are not opposed to tl conclusions arrived at in the preceding note ; and as his cases have n been described , it is not possible to say what their actual bearing may b The conclusion arrived at by Reichert , after examination of the 23 spec mens , however , is that rupture of the Graafian follicle takes place at a early stage of the menstrual flow .
IV .
" Note on Mr. Mallet^s Paper on the Mechanism of Strom boli"* .
By Robert Mallet , F.R.S. Received May 21,1875 .
Since the appearance of my paper on Stromboli some strictures hostil to the views therein contained have been publishedf , in which it is urge that the elevation of the fundus , or bottom of the visible crater , which !
I have assumed at 300 to 400 feet above the sea , is greatly below tb truth , that being , it is affirmed , at least 2000 feet above the sea-level .
It i added that " Mr. Mallet 's whole theory hangs upon the proximity of th bottom of the crater to the sea-level , " and that " Mr. Mallet 's hypothesi of the mechanism of Stromboli is based entirely on these grossly inac curate measurements .
" It is unnecessary that I should occupy the tim of the Society by any discussion as to the correctness or incorrectness o either of the above levels , neither of which are more than loose approxi mations ; but I beg permission to point out that the theory of the rhyth mical action of Stromboli which I have proposed does not rest upon th proximity of the fundus to the sea-level , and stands equally valid whethe the height of the tube C ( see diagram no. 4 , p. 512 , Proc. Roy .
Soc 1874 ) , or , what is the same thing , the difference in level between the se\#163 ; and the bottom of the crater , be 300 to 400 feet or 2000 feet .
Thai tube , whether long or short , is never filled , according to my views , by i column of liquid lava or water , but only with steam more or less dense before being blown off to a lower pressure ; and the only change introduced by lengthening the tube C is , that a greater volume of steam is required to fill it ; so that the tube being supposed of uniform calibre , the volume of steam required to produce equal tensions in the shorter or longer tube , as above stated , would be about as one to five ; and no difficulty can suggest itself to the mind , of any physicist as to the adequacy of the mechanism that I have suggested for such supply .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1874 , vol. xxii .
p. 496 .
t Geol .
Mag. , Dec. 1874 and May 1875 .

