III .
" On Magnesium .
" By Dr. T. L. PHIPSON , F.C.S. Communicated by Prof. G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 9 , 1864 .
( Extract .
) Iodine and Sutl.phur.-1 find that iodine can be distilled off magniesium without attacking the metal in the least .
In the same manner I distilled several portions of sulphur off magnesium without the metal being at all attacked .
Decomposition of Silicic Acid.-IIeated for some time in a porcelain crucible with excess of anhydrous silica , the metal burns vividly if the air has access ; and a certain quantity of amorphous silicium is immediately formed .
Magnesium is therefore capable of reducing silicie acid at a high temperature .
The reason why potassium and sodium cannot effect this is simply because these metals are highly volatile and fly off before the crucible has attained the proper temperature .
Magnesium being much less volatile than the alkaline metals , takes oxygen from silica before volatilizing .
If the silicic acid be in excess , a silicate of magniesia is formed at the same time ; if the metal is in excess , much siliciuret of magnesium is produced .
The presence of the latter is immediately detected by throwing a little of the product into water acidulated with sulphuric acid , when the characteristic phosphoric odour of siliciuretted hydrogen is at once percei-ved .
Decomposition of Boracic Acid.-With boracic acid the phenomena are rather different ; the acid melts and covers the metal , so that it does not inflame even when the crucible is left uncovered .
A certain quantity of boron is soon liberated , and the product forms a greenish-black mass , which oxidizes and becomes white in conitact with water , and disengages no odoriferous gas in acidulated water .
Decomposition of Carbonic Acid.-I thought it would be interesting to try a similar experiment with carbonic acid .
Accordingly dry carbonate of soda was heated with a little magnesium in a glass tube over a common spirit-lamp ; and before the temperature had arrived at a red heat I observed that carbon was liberated abundantly , and magnesia formed .
Action of Alkalies.-A solution of caustic alkali or ammonia has little or no action upon magnesium in the cold .
Precipitation of Metallic Solutions.-Magnesium precipitates nearly all the metals from their neutral solutions .
When these are takeni in the form of protosalts , even manganese , iron , and zinc are precipitated as black powders .
Aluminium and uranium ( and perhaps chrome ) are only precipitated as oxides .
Alloys of Magnesium.-I have examined only a few alloys of magnesium .
Unlike zinc , magnesium will not unite with mercury at the ordinary temperature of the air .
With tin 85 parts , and magnesium 15 parts , I formed a very curious alloy of a beautiful lavender-colour , very hard and brittle , easily pulverised , and decomposing water with considerable rapidity at ordinary tenmperatures .
If the air has access during the formation of this alloy , the mixture takes fire ; and if the crucible be then suddenly withdrawn from the lamp , the flame disappears , but a vivid phosphorescence elnsues , and the unfused mass remains highly luminous for a cornsiderable time .
A white powdery mass , containing stannic acid and magnesia , is the result .
[ With platinum , according to Mr. Sonstadt , magnesium forms a fusible alloy ; so that platinum crucibles can be easily perforated by heating magnesium in them .
] Sodium and potassium unite with magnesium , and form very malleable alloys , which decompose water at the ordinary temperature .
It is probable that an alloy of copper and magnesium , which I have not yet obtained , would differ from brass , not only in lightness , but by decomposing water at the ordinary temperature with more or less rapidity .
Uses.-Magnesium will be found a useful metal whenever tenacity and lightness are required and tarnish is of no consequence .
The light furnished by combustion of the wire has already beeni utilized in photography at night .
In the laboratory it will be found useful to effect decompositions which sodium and potassium cannot effect oln accoulnt of their greater volatility .

