]\gt ; On the Effect of the Magneton in the ttering of By W. M. HICKS , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received Apri124 , \mdash ; Read May 21 , 1914 .
) The present communication is intended to illustrate a remark made in the discussion on the constitution of the atom at the meeting of the Society on March 19 .
Its object is no more than to show that the molecular magnetic fields discovered by Weiss are very efficient agents in the scattering of and -particles .
For this purpose the simple of charged particles moving in the equatorial plane of a fixed magnetic doublet is considered without taking aocount of a central nuclear charge .
The solution of this simple problem will be sufficient to enable a rough estimate of the magnitude of the effect to be formed .
Supposs the plane of the paper to be the equatorial plane of the doublet situated at ( figs. 1 , 2 ) with its north pole above the paper so that the field is down throngh the paper and is equal to Suppose the particles at a great distance are moving parallel to The paths will all be curved , with their concavities on the left of the direction of motion .
Further , let denote ths charge in netic units , the mass , and the velocity .
Then the force normal to the path where is the radius of curvature .
On the Effect of the Magneton in the Scattering of Hence ' where and is of the dimensions of a length .
Two cases arise according as the path is ( i ) convex or ( ii ) .
concave to O. If denote the perpendicular from on the tangent , in Case in Case ii .
Hence , Case In the paths of special interest for our present purpose the particles arrive from infinity .
If denote the distance of the particles from the line XO at a great distance , .
It will be convenient to vrite , so that all values of will be contained between and , also to put Then according to Case or ii .
The possible apsidal distances are found by are therefore giveu by .
Case ii .
or imaginary when Also when there are tangents to the orbits from , their lengths are found by putting , or Length of tangent in Case ii .
It is interesting to notice that there is no dynamical reversibility here .
If , say at an apse , the velocity of a particle is revelsed , the particle does not return over its former path , because the forces are also reversed .
Nevertheless the actual path is clearly symmetrical on the two sides of an apse .
* Using polar co-ordinates with XO for the initial line , * If the forces between the molecules in a gas depend on magnetic fields , the paths will not be reversible , and a difficulty felt in the kinetic theory of gases will be obviated .
Dr. W. M. Hicks .
On the Effect of the Case i.\mdash ; Particles projected on left of OX .
Before an apse is reached is negative where stands for Hence the equation to the path is To tlansform the elliptic The int .
where .
This is , therefore , suitable for or , i.e. , Hence , when S here and When and replace by with and For particles aimed to the left of , therefore\mdash ; When Apsidal angle , Apsidal distance When angle ta , Apsidal distance .
Magneton tloe Scattering For a particle shot along or a rectangular hyperbola .
The deflection is therefore For a particle shot at a distance with The deflection is with apsidal distance The particles coming in on the left of XO are therefote scattered within a angle and none are reflected .
Case ii.\mdash ; Particles shot on right of XO .
Here As in Case When or is no apse , and increases from until at , or the radius vector touches the orbit .
Beyond this the path is convex to O. Let denote the up to the tano e. The ument of the term ases from to a maximum value , and decreases to .
Hence between the limits the value is .
So the between the same limits is , with the iiame notation as before , with ; hence sitl ( or ; also corresponds to 360 Dr. W. M. Hicks .
On the Effect of the Therefore Beyond the tangent point and there is now an apse at Also is now positive and As in Case , transform the integral by , and , giving To corresponds or To the apse corresponds If then denote the angle from tangent to apse , .
The angle to the apse is When p are two possible apsidal distances since For particles coming from infinity , will increase from and will reach the smaller value first .
This is therefore the apsidal value for our immediate purpose , and Magneton in the Scattering of -Rays .
We have with where the two roots of the apsidal equation , .
Since must be positive , or Now , whereas the possible tangents are given by .
Hence is always less than a possible , or , in other words , the orbits are all concave to O. As increases from to increases from to .
Hence the 1 apsidal is Scrolls.\mdash ; Although not required for the immediate purpose of this paper , it may be interesting to complete the theory of the orbits by considering the case of those orbits which do not stretch to infinity .
It is the case where reater than the root in the immediately preceding paragraph , or , with or with S. and Since is real , .
Thus lies between and .
As increases from the smaller value it passes through the value , corresponding .
to a tangent through , and , as in the former cases , the curve changes into one convex to O. In the concave part the amplitude of the integral increases from to , and the angular distance from apse to rent is 362 Dr. W. M. Hicks .
On the Effect of the The curve now changes .
The apsidal distance is given by is As goes from to the apse goes down from to ?
It is now easy to see the general arrangement of the orbits .
The change of shape , according as the shot is aimed at different distances from , is 3 illustrated in fig. 1 .
Shots on the left of are all deflected to the left I between and .
None are reflected back .
That aimed directly at describes a rectangular hyperbola , touching the circle radius .
With increasing distances on the right of , the particles are first reflected in a backward direction in paths of the general appearance of hyperbolas .
That aimed about on the right is returned in the opposite direction .
Farther off the return path crosses the incident , and loops are produced .
The most remarkable effect is when the aim is very close to Just less than this the path is a spiral of very many turns , then a loop , and the same number of turns in getting free .
Just greater than 2 , the paths are also spirals with many turns , but in this case coming to an apse without a loop , and then gebting free .
This critical circle is the path we should obtain if we proceeded to calculate the circular orbit in the usual direct way .
It is therefore clear that this orbit is unstable .
All particles aimed within a small distance of on the right will be scattered in all directions , but the total number through is so small that this effect would have little influence on the of .
To deduce a law of it would be advantageous to calculate the deflections for equal intervals of .
There is , however , no object to be gained by doing so , as the result can scarcely correspond to reality , for two reasons : First , because the theory is not complete as dealing with particles moving in the equatorial plaue only ; and , secondly , because in the case of and -particles , the electric reactions Magneton in the Scattering of are not considered .
* A theory which ects the electrostatic forces is as .
deficient as one which neglects the oneton effecb .
In the figures , therefole , orbits only have been calculated for selected values of which occur in the tables of elliptic integrals given in Bertrand 's ' Calculus .
' It is interesting to note that a particle in an close to the circle ( radius ) behaves like a radioactive or -particle .
By taking it close enough , it may be to describe any .
of revolutions , i.e. , have any life , and then disintegrate .
Scrolls .
denote the maximum and minimum apsidal distances respectively .
Orbits from Tnfinity .
Left o illustrates a few of the scroll orbits .
The ) always lies within a circle whose radins is outer within theCl.itical circle .
The scroll is so all that an .
is iven on the This case admits of treatment similar to that here given , but the laiou of the elliptic integral involved is more complicated .
I hope to return to this on a later occasioI ] .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
figure magnified five times , , corresponding to .
It is curious to note that a particle takes much to make one revolution round than if it irculated directly with its special velocity .
When close in the loops become almost close circles .
For instance , for a distance about , each loop is displaced about 1 minute from the preceding one , and its radius is .
It would take 192 times as long .
When very close in it would appear almost , with a sort of saecular change of position .
Of the particles from outside none can penetrate nearer to than If we take the case of a single magneton .
For a -parcicle and about .
For an -particle we may take about .
Consequently for a -particle , for an -partiole .
The nearest approach is consequently of the orders and for penetrating and -rays respectively .
When the electrostatic action is taken into account the effect on the -particle will be to make this minimum distance very much larger , not only on account of the direct action , but because the diminution of velocity caused by it will also render it more sn bservient to the magnetic field .
Vapours Distilled from the Arc , with ) cations to the Study of ectrurn Series thelr By the Hon. R. J. STRUTT , Sc. D. , F.B.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received Apri128 , \mdash ; Read May 21 , 1914 .
) S1 .
In a paper entitled " " ation of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and reference was made to a known phenomenon shown by the mercury arc : when mercury is allowed to distil away from a mercury lamp a lateral tube sealed on to it , the rapidly moving vapour carries its luminosity for a long distance out of the electric field .
It was shown how effects not essentially diff'erent might be obtained with mercury , and other nletals also , using not the arc , but the leyden jar spark between poles of the metal ; but this method , owin to 'Roy .
Soc. Soc , vol. 88 , p. 110 ( 1913 ) .

