1873 .
] On the direct Synthesis of Ammonia .
281 uniformly as the pressure of air increases from two to ten per cent , that of the steam , and then less and less rapidly until thirty per cent , is reached , after which the rate of condensation remains nearly constant .
3 .
That in consequence of this effect of air the necessary size of a surface-condenser for a steam-engine increases very rapidly with the quantity of air allowed to be present within it .
4 .
That by mixing air with the steam before it is used , the condensation at the surface of a cylinder may be greatly diminished , and consequently the efficiency of the engine increased .
5 .
That the maximum effect , or nearly so , will be obtained when the pressure of the air is one tenth that of the steam , or when about two cubic feet of air at the pressure of the atmosphere and the temperature 60 ' F. are mixed with each pound of steam .
15 .
Remarks .
As this investigation was nearly completed my attention was called to a statement by Sir W. Armstrong , to the effect that Mr. Siemens had suggested as an explanation of the otherwise anomalous advantage of forcing air into the boiler of a steam-engine , that the air may prevent , in a great measure , the condensation at the surface of the cylinder .
It would thus seem that Mr. Siemens has already suggested the probability of the fact which is proved in this investigation .
I am not aware , however , that any previous experiments have been made on the subject , and therefore I offer these results as independent testimony of the correctness of Mr. Siemens 's views as well as of my own .
II .
" On the direct Synthesis of Ammonia .
" By W. F. Donkin .
Communicated by Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1873 .
The action of induced electricity on mixtures of certain gases has been lately shown by Sir Benjamin Brodie ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. April 3 , 1873 ) to yield very interesting results .
An obvious application of his method was to treat a mixture of dry hydrogen and nitrogen in a similar manner as those referred to above , with the view of effecting the synthesis of ammonia ; and Sir B. Brodie kindly allowed me the use of his apparatus for the purpose of the experiment , which was conducted as follows:\#151 ; A mixture of about three volumes of hydrogen with one of nitrogen in a bell-jar over water , was passed through two tubes containing pumice moistened with alkaline pyrogallate and sulphuric acid respectively , then through a Siemens induction-tube , and into a bulb containing dilute hydrochloric acid .
The whole apparatus being first filled with pure hydrogen , about half a litre of the mixed gases was sent through the apparatus , the induction-coil not being in action ; the bulb containing the acid was then removed and another substituted , containing an equal volume of the same acid .
282 On the Effect of Pressure on the Spectra of Gases .
[ May 1 , About half a litre of the mixed gases was now passed through the apparatus , submitting them to the action of the electricity .
The contents of the two bulbs were next transferred to two test-tubes ; and after adding excess of potash to each , Kessler 's test was applied .
The first solution gave a faint yellow coloration , the second a rather thick reddish-brown precipitate .
No attempt was made to estimate the quantity of ammonia formed , as it would vary with many of the conditions of the experiment .
Since writing the account of the above experiment , which was made in Dr. Odling 's laboratory at Oxford on March 24 , I have seen in the ' Comptes Eendus ' for April 22,1873 , a note of an experiment by Messrs. Thenard of Paris , in which they observe the formation of traces of ammonia by the action of electricity on a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen ; but no details of the mode of operating are given .
III .
" On the Effect of Pressure on the Character of the Spectra of Gases .
" By C. H. Stearn and G. H. Lee .
Communicated by W. Huggins , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1873 .
The variations in the spectra of gases which accompany changes of density have been studied by Pliicker and Hittorf , Frankland and Lockyer , Wiillner and others .
It appears to us that one cause to which these changes may be due has been overlooked , and that many of the observed variations are entirely independent of the density of the gas .
If a Leyden jar be placed in the circuit , and the current from an induction-coil be passed through a Pliicker 's tube containing nitrogen with the traces of hydrogen generally present , the following well-known phenomena are observed .
When the gas is near atmospheric pressure , the line-spectrum of nitrogen is brilliant , and the E line of hydrogen is broad and nebulous .
As the pressure is reduced , the lines of nitrogen gradually fade out , and the band-spectrum appears , while at the same time the F line of hydrogen becomes narrow and well defined .
If fresh gas be admitted , the line-spectrum reappears , accompanied by a widening of the F line .
That these changes are not dependent on the density of the gas , appears from the following experiment:\#151 ; A sealed tube containing nitrogen , with traces of hydrogen at a pressure of about 2 millims. , was placed before the spectroscope , second tube was connected with the air-pump , and the current pass through both tubes , a Leyden jar being placed in the circuit . .
1 When the pressure in the second tube was high , the line-spectrum , nitrogen appeared brilliantly in the sealed tube , and the F line was br and nebulous ; as the exhaustion proceeded these lines faded out , an 6 F line became narrow , in precisely the same manner as if the seal tu e had been in process of exhaustion .
The explanation appears to be a

