II .
The first part of a paper s " On a Class of Differential Equa .
tions , including those which occur in Dynamical Problems .
" By W. F. Donkin , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , Savilian Professor of Astronomy in the University of Oxford .
This paper is intended to contain a discussion of some properties of a class of simultaneous differential equations of the first order , including as a particular case the form ( which again includes the dynamical equations ) , die d , ( t where , ... , t yl ... y , .
are two sets of n variables each , and accents denote total differentiation with respect to the independent variable t ; Z being any function of x , &amp;c. , y , &amp;c. , which may also contain t explicitly .
The part now laid before the Society is limited to the consideration of the above form .
After deducing from known properties of functional determinants a general theorem to be used afterwards , the author establishes the following propositions .
If z ... xc be n variables connected with n other variables y,..y , by n equations of the form yi=dX ( X being a given function of ) ; th the eqatios obtained y ving these ge x ) ... .Xj ) ; then the equations obtained by solving these algebraically , so as to express x1 ... x , in terms of y , ... y , , will also be of the die form xi- ; where Y is a function of y ... y , , which may be dedy1 fitted by the equation y= ( X ) + ( xi)yI + ... + ( x3)Y .
, in which the brackets indicate that the terms within them are to be expressed as functions of y , ... y , .
Moreover , if p be any other quantity contained explicitly in X ( besides the variables x , ... x ) , the following relation will subsist ; namely , dX die dp dp the differentiation in each case being performed only so far as p appears explicitly in the function .
It is then shown that if X contain explicitly , besides x , ... x , , the n constants a1 , a2 ... a , , and the variable t , and if the 2n variables xt ... x , yl ... y , , be determined as functions of t by the system of 2n equations , dX dX -yi , -=b , ... ... ( II .
) dxi dai where b ... b , are n other constants , the elimination of the 2n constants from these equations and their differentials with respect to t , leads to the system of differential equations ( I. ) , if for Z be put the result of substituting in the values of the 2n constants in dt terms of the variables .
The equations expressing the 2n constants in terms of the variables may be considered as the 2n integrals of the system ( I. ) .
The author employs the symbol [ p , q ] in a sense similar to that in which Poisson and others have employed ( p , q ) , namely , as an abbreviation for fdp dg dp q ) ; ad he shows that if p , q xdy , dxi dxi represent any two of the 2n constants a1 &amp;c. , b , &amp;c. , then [ p , q ] is either =1 or =0 , according as p , q are a conjugate pair ai , bi , or not .
Next it is shown that if a , , , ... a represent any functions of 2nn variables x , ... x , y,. .
y. , satisfying identically the n(n ) conditions a ten if by meansof the gen eation ex ditions [ as , aj ] =0 , then if by means of the n given equations expressing a , , &amp;c. in terms of the variables , the set y , Y2 ... in be expressed as functions of xl ... x , , al ... a. , the n(n--1 ) relations 2 die =_ dyj will be identically satisfied ; in other words , the expresdxj dxi sion for y , ... y will be the partial differential coefficients of a function of x1 ... x , .
Hence it easily follows , that if any n integrals a ... a , of the system ( I. ) be given , which satisfy the conditions [ ai , aj]=0 , a " Principal Function " X can always be found , from which the remaining integrals of the system may be deduced by means of the second set of equations ( II .
) .
The relation in which these investigations stand to the discovery of Sir W. R. Hamilton ( as improved and completed by Jacobi ) is pointed out .
And it is shown that the system of n differential equations of the second order ( dW , _dW\dx ' dxi ( to which Lagrange had reduced the dynamical equations , and which Sir W. Hamilton had transformed into the system ( I. ) by a process depending upon the circumstance that , in dynamical problems , W contains x'1 , x2 , ... x ' only in the form of a homogeneous function ) may , by means of the theorems established at the beginning of the paper , be reduced to the form ( I. ) without assuming anything as to the form of W , which may be any function whatever of x1 ... x , x ' ... x ' , , and t. The 2n integrals of the system ( I. ) , obtained in the way above explained , being shown to satisfy the conditions [ ai , b ] = 1 , [ ai , aj ] = [ a1 , bj ] = [ 6b , bj ] =0 , it is proposed to call them " normal integrals , " and the constants a , &amp;c. , b &amp;c. " normal elements , " any pair ai , bi being called conjugate .
In the second section , the author gives a simplified demonstration of Poisson 's theorem ( extended to the general system ( I. ) ) , that if f , g be any two integrals , [ f g ] is constant .
The preceding principles are then exemplified by application to the problems of the motion of a material point under the action of a central force , and the rotation of a solid body about a fixed point .
In each case three integrals , cl , c2 , c3 , are taken , satisfying the three conditions [ c2 , c3 ] =0 , [ c3 , Ci ] =0 , [ c , c1 =0= ; the first being the integral of vis viva , and the other two being derived from the integrals expressing the conservation of areas .
In the former problem the " principal function " is then found with great ease , and the remaining integrals deduced .
The set of " normal elements " thus obtained coincide with those given by Jacobi ( in a memoir in Crelle 's Journal , vol. xvii .
) .
In the problem of rotation , the algebraical solution of the three assumed integrals for y , , Y2 , is depends upon that of an equation of the fourth degree .
It is therefore impracticable to exhibit the principal function in an explicit form .
In this respect the result arrived at resembles that obtained by Mr. Cayley in a totally different way ; Mr. Cayley having shown that the solution of the problem is reducible to quadratures , assuming the algebraical solution of a certain system of equations of the same form as those to which the author of the present investigation is conducted .
( Camb .
and Dub .
Math. Journ. vol. i. p. 172 .
) Methods are then indicated by which , when one system of " normal elements " is given , other systems may be found .
The practical value of " normal solutions " of the system ( I. ) depends chiefly upon the simplicity of the corresponding formulae for the variation of elements , the theory of which is intended to form part of the subject of the following sections .

