On the Physiology of the Embryonic Heart .
January 26 , 1893 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , H.C.L. , LL. I ) .
, Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Physiology of the Embryonic Heart ( Preliminary Communication ) .
" By J. W. Pickering , B.Sc. , Assistant Demonstrator in Biology at St. Bartholomew 's Medical School .
Communicated by Professor Halliburton , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1892 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of King 's College , London .
) The object of the following experiments has been to study the effect of varying conditions on the heart previous to the development of a nervous mechanism , and thus to throw some light on the discussion as to the relative importance of the two factors in the heart 's action , viz. , the contractile tissue and the nervous elements .
The heart I have used is that of the chick* at a period of incubation of seventy-two hours at a temperature of 38 ' C. In some cases the embryos have been a few hours older or younger .
The embryo is not removed from the egg , but a window is cut 3 cm .
square through the shell and shell membrane , exposing the albumen and blastoderm , which remain undisturbed ; the egg and embryo is fixed in a small chamber surrounded on five sides by a water-jacket .
The uppermost side is covered with glass , while the air of the chamber is kept moist by the evaporation of water from a small bowl placed inside it .
The temperature of this chamber can be kept constant or varied at pleasure .
My experiments have fallen under three main heads : 1 .
The results of varying the temperature .
2 .
The introduction of drugs .
3 .
Electrical stimulation .
In my full paper the results will be shown in tables giving the number of heart beats per minute , the peculiarities in the beat , when such exist , being duly noted .
At present , however , I am only prepared to give an abstract of the results obtained , in so far as temperature and drugs are concerned .
The electrical experiments are not yet completed .
* Observations are being carried on upon the mammalian embryo .
[ Jan. 26 , 462 Mr. J. W. Pickering .
1 .
Temperature .
Each embryo has an individual rhythm of its own , which , if the conditions are constant , remains unaltered , but different embryos , even of the same age , may have different rhythms , so that it is necessary to determine for each embryo its normal rhythm before variations can be studied .
An embryo 's heart , aged seventy-two hours , at a temperature of 31 ' 0 .
, was beating with a regular rhythm of 84 per minute .
The temperature of the air of the chamber was rapidly raised to 42 ' C. , when the l'hythm rose to 91 per minute .
A further rise to 50 ' C. increased the rhythm to 128 , it still remaining regular .
The temperature was then rapidly lowered to 26 ' C. , when the rhythm fell to 114 per minute .
A further fall to 16 ' C. reduced the rhythm to 34 per minute .
The temperature was then raised to 46 ' C. , when the rhythm rose to 117 ' per minute .
On again letting the temperature fall to 25 ' 0 .
, the rhythm fell to 36 ' per minute .
The above experiment , taken as an instance from several , shows that , other factors being constant , the rhythm of the embryonic heart varies directly with the temperature of the surrounding medium .
Extremes of temperature stop the heart ; thus exposure to a temperature of 10 ' C. causes the beats to become weaker and slower , and finally to stop in diastole .
If the air of the incubator be raised above 50 ' C. , the beats become so rapid as to be uncountable .
They are feeble , and the heart is pale , due to the passage of less blood through it than in the normal state .
Violent systolic spasms alternate with periods of quiescence .
It stops in an expanded condition when the surrounding temperature is about 55 ' 0 .
Lowering the temperature restores the beating , but the heart is enfeebled .
If the temperature is raised much above this limit the heart is killed .
Mechanical stimulation of the heart in standstill , due to either extreme of temperature , if applied at the ventricular end , gives rise to one or more waves of contraction , commencing from the auricular end , and showing the direct conduction through the fibres of the heart .
The heart will respond to auricular stimulation when irresponsive to ventricular stimulation .
Small variations of temperature , such as one or two degrees , occurring over a long period of time , as in an hour , do not affect the rhythm .
2 .
The Introduction of Drugs .
The drugs employed were applied directly to the heart substance at the temperature of the embryo , and dissolved in normal saline ( 0'65 per cent , sodium chloride ) solution .
a. Caffeine.\#151 ; An embryo , aged sixty-eight hours , at 33 ' C. had a rhythm of 88 per minute .
To its heart 0'00015 gram* of caffeine was * All weights of drugs used are expressed in grams .
1893 .
] On the Physiology of the Embryonic Heart 463 administered , and in two minutes the rhythm rose to 100 per minute , and remained constant for two and a half minutes , when it fell to 96 per minute .
A second dose of 0-00015 gram raised the rate to 102 per minute .
The heats were also of greater force , since more blood was seen passing through the heart .
A dose of 0'0025 gram was fatal .
When given to an embryo , aged seventy-five hours , at 37 ' 0 .
, beating with a rhythm of 116 per minute , it reduced the rhythm , after one minute 's action , to 100 per minute .
The beats , however , remained very strong .
After one minute forty-five seconds ' action the heart stopped in strong systole , but started again and gave a few powerful beats .
After the drug had acted nine minutes thirty seconds the heart stopped permanently in powerful contraction .
Caffeine , therefore , acts directly on the cells of the embryonic heart .
b. Strychnine was given to a seventy hours ' embryo in a dose of 0-000017 gram , and depressed the rhythm of the heart from 112 per minute to 52 per minute .
There was no spasm .
In an eighty hour embryo , at 39 ' C. , a dose of 0'00002 gram temporarily increased the rhythm , both in force and number of beats ; then the systole rapidly became weakened and the rhythm irregular .
A further dose of 0-00002 gram still more rapidly reduced both force and frequency of beating , till death in diastole occurred .
c. Morphine acetate , if given in doses of 0-0001 gram , is a powerful depressant .
With a dose of 0'0002 gram , after one minute 's action on an eighty-five hours ' embryo at 40 ' 0 .
, irregularities and slowing were obtained ; after two minutes ' action the beating stopped , but went on again , the waves of contraction sometimes passing from ventricle to auricle , and at others in the normal direction .
Periods of rest alternated with violent bouts of rapid beating .
d. Veratrine.\#151 ; Doses of 0-0001 gram increase the number of beats per minute .
Larger doses may cause , temporarily , an increase of rhythm , but soon depress the heart by greatly lengthening the systole , which becomes very weak while the diastole is complete .
The heart stops in an expanded condition .
The heart of a seventy-two hours ' embryo that had stopped in diastole , after a dose of 0*0005 gram , was restored by the application of 0"01 gram of potassium chloride almost to its normal rhythm .
This agrees with Ringer 's observation on the frog 's heart .
e. Potassium chloride , when applied in a dose of 0'005 gram to an embryo aged seventy-two hours , reduced the normal rhythm of 76 per minute to 60 per minute .
A further dose of 0"01 gram reduced the rhythm to 64 per minute .
After the administration of a total amount of 0-07 gram of the substance , the heart stopped in diastole .
f. Nicotine , in very minute doses , stimulated the embryonic heart 5 e.c. of a solution containing \ c.c. of nicotine to 100 c.c. of normal 464 Mr. J. W. Pickering .
[ Jan. 26 , saline was a stimulant ; with 1 c.c. the frequency and force of the heart diminished , systole becoming almost absent , while the heart was finally paralysed in diastole .
The addition of 003 gram of potassium chloride restored the heart to almost its normal rhythm , the beats at the same time becoming strong , both as regards systole and diastole .
A further dose of nicotine depressed the heart , and again brought it into diastolic stoppage , the systoles having become weaker and weaker .
There was no spasm .
g. Atropine.\#151 ; Doses of 0*001 gram had , in a sixty hours ' embryo , a slightly depressant effect , and even after 0-006 gram had been administered , the rhythm of the heart had only fallen from 96 to 72 per minute .
In a seventy-two hours ' embryo , with a heart beating at 116 per minute , O012 gram , after three minutes ' action , had depressed the rhythm to 80 per minute , while even after the administration of 0-275 gram the rhythm was strongly maintained at 64 per minute .
h. Muscarine Nitrate.\#151 ; To the heart of a seventy-two hours ' embryo at 35 ' C. , which was beating with a rhythm of 90 per minute , 3 drops of half saturated solution of muscarine nitrate were applied : the rhythm remained constant for two minutes , after which period 2 more drops were added , and the rhythm kept constant at 94 per minute during the next three minutes , after which period 4 more drops were added , and the ensuing rhythm was 93 per minute ; 2 drops of saturated solution were then added , which was so concentrated as to stain the embryo brown .
During the following five minutes the rhythm was constant at 84 per minute , each beat remaining normal in direction and force .
Two more drops of saturated solution caused slight irregularities , but the rhythm during the next seven minutes averaged 72 beats per minute .
Finally 2 more drops of saturated solution were added , and during the following seven minutes the heart 's rhythm was 75 per minute .
The whole experiment lasted thirty minutes , and 10 drops of half saturated plus 9 drops of saturated solution of muscarine nitrate were administered .
A control experiment with the hearts of two frogs showed that the muscarine used stopped their beats , which were typically restored by atropine .
In a similar experiment , witnessed by Professor Halliburton , with both embryonic and frogs ' hearts , the rhythm of the former was maintained at 136 per minute , while the latter was stopped and subsequently restored by atropine .
Identical results were obtained with a ninety-six hours ' embryo .
In an embryo aged seventy hours at a temperature of 30 ' C. , which is subnormal in the chick , a rhythm of 92 beats was obtained after the application of 1 c.c. of half saturated solution for the following nine minutes , after which 1 c.c. of saturated solution was applied .
This was fatal to the heart , almost instantly coagulating the tissues .
There were no typical phenomena 1893 .
] On the Physiology of the Embryonic Heart .
of muscarine poisoning , and the application of atropine failed to restore the rhythm .
Probably any strongly alkaloidal body in such a concentrated solution would produce a similar effect .
i. Schmiedeberg 's Digitalin.\#151 ; An embryo aged seventy-two hours at 30 ' C. had a heart rhythm of 132 per minute .
To it 1 c.c. of normal saline containing 0'000022 gram of digitalin was applied .
During the next eleven minutes the rhythm remained constant , after which time 1 c.c. containing 0'00005 gram was added , which produced no change in the rhythm ; then O'OOOl gram was put in , and after one minute 's action the frequency of the rhythm had fallen to 92 per minute , but both the systole and diastole were strong .
The rhythm after six minutes ' action rose to 104 per minute .
After this another O'OOOl gram was added , and the rhythm fell after two minutes ' action to 50 per minute .
The systole was typically perfect , but the diastole was incomplete .
The whole heart after two minutes ' more action of the drug became very pale and in a state of tonic contraction with very feeble fluttering diastoles , which faded away , leaving the heart stopped* in a contracted condition .
j. Stroyhanthin ( of Merck 's manufacture).\#151 ; A seventy-two hours ' embryo at a temperature of 32 ' C. had a heart rhythm of 132 per minute .
A dose of 0'00006 gram did not alter the rhythm .
A second dose of the same amount after twenty minutes ' action reduced the rhythm to 54 per minute ; both systole and diastole were regular and complete .
Five minutes after this the diastole became irregular , and the systole was more marked than in the normal condition .
After another minute had elapsed the ventricle passed into a state of tonic contraction with a few feeble beats , in which the diastole was very weak .
The auricles had a marked diastole and a weak systole , and were engorgedjwith blood .
During the next five minutes the auricle had a rhythm averaging 24 beats per minute , while the ventricle remained in tonic contraction .
Finally , forty-one minutes after the administration of the dose the auricle stopped in diastole , the ventricle remaining in tonic contraction .
The auricles responded by 10 beats to a mechanical stimulus ; the beats did not extend to the ventricle .
Six minutes after this the auricle responded to mechanical stimuli , the wave of contraction passing either from the ventricular end to the auricle or vice versa , according to which end of the auricle the stimulus was applied .
In larger doses of 0'0002 gram the rhythm in a seventy hour embryo at 33 ' C. was depressed from 120 to 102 per minute , the systole becoming very strong and the diastole imperfect .
After four minutes ' action the rhythm returned to the normal both in frequency and force .
To the same embryo 0'00025 gram was then added , when after one minute 's action the auricle dilated , giving small twitch-like contractions , while the ventricle passed into tonic contraction .
The 466 On the Physiology of the Embryonic Heart .
[ Jan. 26 , auricle remained for six minutes feebly responsive to mechanical stimuli .
k. Nitrite of Amyl.\#151 ; A ninety-six hours ' embryo kept at 35 ' C. was subjected to the influence of the vapour of 5 minims of nitrite of amyl .
After one minute 's action the rhythm rose from 96 to 124 , and after another minute fell to 112 .
After another minute it had fallen to 104 , and six minutes afterwards was at the normal .
In a seventy-two hour embryo at a temperature of 47 ' the rhythm was 124 per minute .
A dose of 1 c.c. of solution of amyl nitrite dissolved in olive oil ( strength being 1*5 c.c. of the drug to 10 c.c. of olive oil ) was given , and the frequency of the rhythm fell in one minute to 112 , but the beats were strong .
Six minutes afterwards another c.c. of the solution was introduced , and the rhythm fell to 104 , but was strong .
Three minutes later another c.c. was put in , and the rhythm rose to 112 , but was very weak and irregular , and finally before death the rhythm was reversed .
Concluding Remarks .
\gt ; The observations here recorded show that the embryonic heart when kept under favourable conditions reacts in a very delicate manner to all those classes of stimuli which influence the adult heart .
The experiments on temperature show that its variations act directly on the cardiac muscle , and thus confirm the opinion of Newell Martin* and others who have arrived at the same conclusion from experiments on the adult heart .
The action of caffeine , morphine acetate , potassium chloride , vera/ -trine , nicotine , digitalin , strophanthin , and amyl nitrite is direct on the contractile tissue of the embryonic heart .
This greatly favours the view that they act direct on the adult cardiac muscle .
It will be noted that many of the actions here described on the embryonic heart are almost identical to those observed by others on the adult heart .
Notoriously so is the antagonism between veratrine and potassium chloride , where my observations are identical with those of Kingerf on the frog 's heart .
A similar antagonism exists between nicotine and potassium chloride .
The remarkable correspondence of my results with strophanthin on the embryonic heart with those of Professor Fraser* on the frog 's heart greatly supports the view of that observer as to the direct action of strophanthin on cardiac muscle without the intervention of any nervous mechanism , and , further , the absence of diastolic stoppages in my experiments also supports Fraser 's view that that condition in the frog 's heart is due to the * Newell Martin , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1883 , p. 663 .
+ Ringer , ' Practitioner , ' vol. 30 ( 1883 ) , p. 17 .
X Fraser , 'Edinburgh Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 36 ( 1890-91 ) , Part II , p. 388 , et seq. 1.893 .
] On the Metallurgy of Bismuth , action of small doses of stropliantliin on the cardiac nervous mechanism of that animal .
The lengthening out of the systole in veratrine poisoning corresponds to the same well-known lengthening of the systole in the frog 's heart under veratrine .
The reversing of rhythm observed in morphine poisoning is similar to that mentioned by Ludwig* as occurring in the mammalian ventricle when under the influence of opium , for then the auricular beats follow instead of precede the ventricular beats , the rhythm being reversed .
The same occurs in amyl nitrite poisoning .
Krukenbergt has stated that neither atropine nor muscarine affects the heart of Ascidians .
My observations on the action of atropine and muscarine , which have been made ' on a large number of embryos , show that in the absence of a nervous mechanism they do not influence the heart .
This will probably modify the current views on the action of these drugs , and my results show that the method I have adopted is a valuable one for differentiating the functions of cardiac muscle from those of the nerves which supply it .
II .
" Further Researches in Connexion with the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
" By Edward Matthey , F.S.A. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , Bart. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1892 .
In 1886-87 and in 1890 I submitted papers to the Royal Society bringing under notice facts which had come to my knowledge whilst engaged upon the practical extraction of this beautiful metal from its ores , and in its separation from impurities which are always associated with it when in a crude or unrefined state .
IV .
Bismuth , its Separation from Arsenic .
In a paper dated February 10 , 1887 , ] : allusion is made to the fact that arsenic is often one of these impurities , and at the same time a method is given by which the separation of this metal from bismuth was then successfully effected .
The process adopted when that paper was read , and for a considerable period subsequently , when working upon bismuth containing arsenic , consisted in removing the arsenic by fusing the arsenical * Ludwig , ' Lehrbuch der Physiol , des Menschen , ' Bd .
2 ( 1881 ) , p. 38 .
.f- Krukenberg , quoted in Brunton 's ' Text-Book of Pharmacology , \amp ; c. ( 3rd edition , p. 114 ) .
X ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 49 .
VI1T .
T.TT

