373 IX .
On the Skeleton of the Marsipobrancli Fishes.\#151 ; Part I. The ( Myxine , and Bdellostoma ) .
By William Kitchen Parker , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1882\#151 ; Read January 11 , 1883 .
[ Plates 8-17 .
] Introduction .
At present , almost nothing is known of the development of these remarkable Fishes , but their structure in thn adult state is of great interest ; and as the other related type\#151 ; the Lamprey\#151 ; has received great attention lately in most of its stages , I have thought that it would be profitable to anatomists to have a detailed account of the structure of the skeleton in these lower , and less known types .
The late Professor Johann Muller left us his inestimable account of the anatomy of Bdellostoma , with excellent figures of the skeletal parts ; but of Myxine he gave very few illustrations .
Moreover , the absolutely accurate figures of the skull of Bdellostoma are small and uncoloured ; they fail to show the various kinds of cartilage of which it is composed , and as this skull is so extremely unlike that of any other known vertebrate , except that of the Hag { Myxine ) , I venture to give my own ( new ) illustrations on a larger scale and coloured .
My figures of the skeletal parts of Myxine will be , I believe , almost entirely new to science ; and , moreover , the time seems to have arrived in which some interpretation of these low generalised skulls may be attempted .
This will be done by the help of what we have lately been learning of the development of the skeleton of the nearest relative of the Myxinoid\#151 ; the Lamprey , \#151 ; the subject of Part II .
This attempt to explain the Myxinoid type of skull and skeleton generally\#151 ; nearly all the cartilage in these fishes is cephalic\#151 ; has been done by the help of our growing knowledge of the Lamprey , and also by comparison with what the writer has traced out in the early conditions of the skull in various types of Ichthyopsida , especially in the larva of Lepidosteus , and of a large number of Tadpoles of the Amphibia Anura .
The light thrown upon the Myxinoid cranio-facial apparatus by the early chondro-cranium of other and much higher kinds of Ichthyopsida , is much greater than might have been expected , for these show , now here , now there , very remarkable mdccclxxxiii .
3 c archaic characters ; and one kind , the Tadpole of the Nailed Toad of the Cape ( Dactylethrd ) , has these parts but little more specialised than in the Myxinoids ; and , moreover , this type has all its cartilage ( which is very copious and wild-growing ) , even in Tadpoles an inch long , of a peculiarly light and cellular kind\#151 ; like many parts of the Myxinoid 's skeleton .
It is evidently t historic representative of an exceedingly ancient and generalised sort of Fish .
Most important help to me in this attempted interpretation has been repeated discussion of the subject with one of the very highest intellects ever devoted to Biological research\#151 ; I allude to the late Professor Balfour , ; that source of light and strength is now , unhappily , lost to me .
Bibliography .
Balfour , F. M. , F.B.S. 'Comparative Embryology , ' vol. ii .
, 1881 , pp. 68-83 .
Bert .
" Note sir quelques points de la Physiologie de la Lamproie .
" Annals des Sc. Naturelles .
5th serie , tome vii .
Zoologie , 1867 , s. 391 .
Calberla .
' Tageblatt der Muenchener Naturforsclier Yersammlung .
' 1877 .
Furbringer .
" Untersuchungen sir vergleichenden Anatomy der Muskulatur des Kopfskeletes der Cyclostomen .
" Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaften , Bd .
ix .
, 1875 .
Gegenbaur , C. 1 .
" Ueber die Entwickelung der Wirbelsaule von Lepidosteus " Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Medicin und Naturwissenschaft , Bd .
iii .
( 1867 ) , S. 376 .
2 .
" Ueber das Skelettgewebe der Cyclostomen .
" Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Medicin und gesammte Naturwissenschaft , Bd .
v. ( 1870 ) , S. 43 .
3 .
' Untersuchungen sir vergleichenden Anatomy der Wirbelthiere .
' ( Drittes Heft : Das Kopfskelet der Selachier , ein Beitrag sir Erkentniss der Genese Kopfskeletes der Wirbelthiere ) .
Leipzig : 1872 .
4 .
' Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomy .
' Leipzig : 1878 .
( Also English Translation by Jeffrey Bell , Esq. , ' Elements of Comparative Anatomy/ London : 1878 ) .
Got , Alex .
* Entwickelungsgeschichte d. Unke/ Leipzig : 1875 .
Huxley , T. H. , F.B.S. 1 .
' Elements of Comparative Anatomy .
' 1864 , pp. 189\#151 ; 194 .
2 .
' The Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals .
' 1871 , pp. 115-126 .
3 .
" Preliminary Note on the Brain and Skull of Amphioxus and Am.moccetes .
" Proc. Boy .
Soc. , 1874 , pp. 127-132 .
4 .
" On the Nature of the Cranio-facial Apparatus of Petromyzon .
" Journ. ol Anat .
and Phys. , vol. x. , pp. 412-429 ; plates 17 , 18 .
Kolliker , A. 1 .
" Entwicklung der Wirbel der Selachier .
" Verhandiungen der physikalisch-medicinischen Gesellschaft in Wurzburg .
Bd .
x. , 1860 ; Taf .
3 , fig. 8 .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
2 .
" Kritische Bemerkungen sir Geschichte der Untersuchungen liber Scheiden der Chorda dorsalis .
" Wtirzburger naturwissenschaftliche Zeitschrift , 1873 , S. 7 .
Mayer , Aug. Fr. J. C. * Analecten fur vergleichende Anatomy / Theil I. , 1835 , S. 60 .
Muller , Aug. " Ueber die Entwicklung der Neunaugen [ Petromyzon ' ] : ein vor-laufiger Bericht .
, , Muller 's Archiv , 1856 , S. 323 .
Muller , J. 1 .
'Vergleichende Anatomy der Myxinoiden , der Cyclostomen , mit durchbohrtem Gaumen.* Berlin : 1835 .
2 .
' Ueber den eigenthtimlichen Bau des Gehororgans bei den Cyclostomen/ Berlin : 1838 .
3 .
' Vergleichende Neurologie der Myxinoiden/ Berlin : 1840 .
4 .
' Vergleichende Anatomy der Myxinoiden/ Berlin : 1841 .
Rathke , H. 1 .
* Bemerkungen liber den Bau der Prick \Petromyzon~\ ' Danzig : 1826 .
2 .
" Bemerkungen liber den innern Bau des Querders [ Ammoccetes ] : Beitrage sir Geschichte der Thierwelt .
" Abtheilung IV .
Der Schriften der natur-forschendenden Gesellschaft zu Danzig , Bd .
xxi .
, Heft 2 .
Halle : 1827 , S. 66 .
Retzius , Gustay .
'Das Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere/ vol. .
i. Stockholm : 1881 .
Schneider , Anton .
' Beitrage sir vergleicbenden Anatomy und Entwickelungs-geschichte der Wirbelthiere/ Berlin : 1879 .
Schultze , M. S. ' Die Entwickelungsgeschichte von Petromyzon Haarlem : 1856 .
Scott , W. B. ( Princeton , New Jersey , U.S. ) 'Preliminary Account of Development of Lampreys/ \amp ; c. Princeton : Nov. 29th , 1880 .
Wiedersheim , It .
' Morphologische Studien/ Heftl .
: " Das Gehirn von Ammoccetes und Petromyzon Planeri , mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der Spinalartigen Hirnnerven .
" Jena : 1880 .
On the Varieties of the Connective-tissue Series found in the Skeleton of the Myxinoids .
There are four kinds of supporting-tissue in these types , namely :\#151 ; a. A very solid greenish kind of cartilage , seen in these Fishes and the Lamprey , only , as far as my experience goes ; it is formed by special deposits in the softer kind .
h. Soft cartilage ; colourless , and with but little inter-cellular deposit ; passes insensibly in some places , suddenly in others , into hard cartilage .
c. An elastic , spongy tissue , full of large vacuoli , a degree denser than the tissue of the notochord .
d. White fibrous tissue , often exceedingly compact and strong ; it may , for the present , be called fhro-cartilage .
3 c 2 On the relation of the Myxinoids to other types : their Zoological position the " Branchiata , " or " Koughly , this may be expressed as follows : The Hag and Bdellostoma are a sort of greatly modified Ammoccete ; they bear a relation to the Lamprey similar to that which it bears to the Anurous Amphibia .
The secular losses among these types must have been very great indeed , for although the Marsipobranchs and the Anura\#151 ; which are Marsipobranchs in their larval state\#151 ; are akin to each other to a degree in which they are not akin to any other Branchiata , yet they are very far apart from each other , after all .
The metamorphosis of the Tadpole lifts it far above the highest of the Marsipobranchii proper , but I feel satisfied that the Anura have only gradually become metamorphosed ; and I doubt whether all the larvae of Pseudis undergo that change , even now .
Yet when once this change is set up , we see a very generalised and archaic Fish become almost a true Hep the .
More than this , one kind\#151 ; Pipa\#151 ; scarcely shows a trace of gills , and all the Anura , during their metamorphosis , develop a " bladder " which is , apparently , the rudiment of an " Allantois ; " if further research makes this supposition a settled fact , the stride made by these forms , during individual life , will be seen to be very great indeed .
It is better to call the Hag and Lamprey " Marsipobranchs " than suctorial fshes ; the adult Lamprey , like the Tadpole , is truly suctorial , but the mouth of the Ammoccete or larval Lamprey , and the mouth of the Hag and Bdellostoma , are not modified into a circular sucking ring , but it remains as a small hooded opening , fringed with short barbels , or oral palpi .
There is no cartilage whatever in the mouth of the Ammoccete ( Plate 19 , figs. 4 , 5 ) , and in the Myxinoids the only cartilage developed is as a pith to the barbels ( Plate 17 , figs. 1-3 ) .
All this will be explained in the sequel , but we may as well start fairly , looking upon the subjects of the present paper as greatly specialised , but not metamorphised , " Marsipobranchs , " a curious variety of arrested " Sand Pride , " or Ammoccete .
In my Second Part I shall show how such a simple type is transformed into a true Sucking Fish , or Lamprey , which may be , in turn , looked upon as a sort of highly specialised , but arrested , Anurous Amphibian .
On the craniofacial apparatus of the adult Hag-Fish ( Myxine glutinosa ) .
All the cartilage to be found in this Fish is cephalic , for even the furthest rudiment of the dorsal part of the branchial basket is , like the rest of that system , supplied by a cranial nerve\#151 ; the vagus ; the spinal region is only supported by membrane , or strong , fibrous tissue .
Properly speaking , these Fishes , although Craniata , are not Vertebrata ; they are chordato-craniata like the Lamprey before its metamorphosis , for neither in this , or in the large Cape species ( Bdellostoma ) , can I find any cartilaginous rudiments of OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
vertebral arches .
Moreover , the theca vertebralis is but little enlarged where it passes , insensibly , into the dura matter .
The huge notochord ( Plates 9 and 10 , figs. 1 , 2 , nc .
) , with its merely membranous sheath , suddenly ends in a conical form between the ear capsules , its thick sheath becoming still thicker at the end , and the vacuoles and membranous bands ceasing very close to the hind part of the head , which is not definitely separate from the spinal region .
Hence the parachordal region , or investing mass is very short , only one-fifth the length of the entire skull ; its moieties become the trabeculae ( tr .
) at the front third of the auditory capsules ( au .
) The right and left bands unite below ( Plate 10 , fig. 3 ) but not above ( figs , 1 , 2 ) ; there they do project a little behind the capsules , but , below , this is hardly perceptible .
Thus , the basi-occipital cartilage is incomplete .
Moreover , it is arrested behind , for there are not only no condyles , but the cartilage stops in front of the place where they would be found .
The sides , or ex-occipital region , and the roof or super-occipital , are arrested , entirely ; thus there is no occipital ring .
At this hind part the theca cranialis , or " dura matter " lies on an imperfect floor of cartilage , but for the rest of its extent the trabeculae lie rather outside than under it , and only meet and unite under the nasal capsule Thus the huge oval " fontanelle " reaches from end to end , and is only separated from the inferior or pituitary fontanelle by the thick lateral ( trabecular ) bands ; yet a secondary cartilaginous part forms a partial floor to the pro-chordal part of the skull .
The fore part of the skull has a peculiar oxfaced form , ending in two crescentic " horns ; " behind these horns it narrows gently , and then widens out in an even , rounded manner , the widening being due to the facial basket-work .
The whole structure is , indeed , a generalised cranio-facial basket-work .
There is no proper segmentation , but here and there the cartilage remains soft , and thus certain of the territories are marked out .
That which is so puzzling in this little unossified skull is its primitiveness and simplicity ; for we are accustomed to cranial and facial structures that are differentiated from each other , and in which the facial arches are segmented into a number of parts ; these can be classified and named , a typical arch being made the measure of the rest .
Here we have unenclosed land , and in such a generalised , common field , any balk , mound , stone , or bush may be useful as a landmark.* The " horns " are not the cornua trabeculae ; these are suppressed in Myxine , but they belong to the palatine region , and so does at least half of the fore part of the cartilage bounding the narrow cranial cavity .
The two trabeculae are confluent in front , between * If the reader would follow the description and interpretation here attempted , it would bo well for him to have the other papers of the writer before him , especially the following , namely " Skull of Batrachia , " Part II .
, Phil. Trans. , 1876 , Plates 54\#151 ; 62 ; " Skull of Batrachia , " Part III .
, Phil. Trans. , 1881 , Parti .
, Plates 1\#151 ; 44 ; and " Skull of Lepidostens , " Phil. Trans. , 1882 , Plates 30\#151 ; 38 .
The nomenclature shall be as uniform as I can make it .
the " prepalatine " horns ( pr.pa.)K and where they unite in front there is a wedge of soft cartilage ; also the inner edge of the basal cartilage behind , under the hindbrain , is soft .
As to the lateral bars , the eye seizes upon a landmark ; this is the " subocular fenestra " ( s.o.f. ) , very familiar to us in the skulls of Tadpoles .
Inside this very limited reniform membranous space the bar is purely trabecular .
In front of it it is palato-trabecular ( pa. , tr .
) .
Another familiar part can now be seen ; it is behind the fenestra , and is composed of soft cartilage ; this short tract is the pedicle ( pd .
) , for it answers to the dorsal end of the great " suspensorium " or palato-quadrate of the Tadpole , a part always developed continuously with the basis cranii in the Anura .
( See " Batrachian Skull , " Part II .
, Phil. Trans. , 1876 , Plate 35 , figs. 1-5 , pd .
) .
An oblique soft tract may be seen in front of the subocular fenestra in Myxine ; this marks the junction of the pterygo-quadrate region with the palatine .
The prepalatine horns ( pr.pa .
) remain soft ; they are large , rounded , and suddenly apiculated near their end .
Now , for a while , the Tadpole 's skull will fail us in our interpretation ; as long as I kept , slavishly , to that chondrocranium , as my key to the skull of the Marsipobranchs , I was always falling into confusion .
The Tadpole 's skull , however , just when transformation is taking place , and the skull of the suctorial larva of Lepidosteus , greatly enlighten us at this point .
( See " Skull of Batrachia , " Part III .
, Plate 4 , figs. 5\#151 ; 9 , and " Skull of Lepidosteus , " Phil. Trans. , 1882 , Plate 30 , figs. 3 , 7 , 8 .
) Here we have to be cautious ; for Myxine has its quadrate region suppressed at the part where the condyle is formed in the higher kinds , and there are no Meckelian or mandibular rods .
Hence that huge , broad , condyle-bearing part of the enormous suspensorium of the Tadpole shown in so many of my figures , and often running up to the front of the face , is not present in Myxine .
Moreover , I am quite persuaded that the rudiment of the quadrate region ( q. ) which does exist , is not in front , but directly below the pedicle ( pd .
) , a position which is only slowly gained in the Tadpole ; in Lepidosteus it is not far in front of the pedicle , being opposite the pituitary body ( " Skull of Lepidosteus , " Plate 30 , fig. 3 , pie .
, q.c. ) .
The remarkable position of the distal part of the " pier " ( or suspensorium ) of the mandible in the Tadpole is quite unique ; it exists nowhere else but in the Anura , and depends upon the compromise , so to speak , which in them is made between a jaw-less and a jaw-bearing type .
I must return to the arrested jaw-pier and its connexions with the rest of the facial basket-work , when the rest of the cranium has been described .
In the Tadpole the trabeculae , after a time , become united together beneath the fore brain by a thin lamina of cartilage , the soft tissue gradually becoming cartilaginous ; but this posterior intertrabecular tract is not found as a distinct sheet of cartilage .
Afterwards , when the trabeculae of the Tadpole have united in the ethmoidal region , a crest of cartilage appears upon it , which becomes the vertical ethmoid and septum nasi in one high tract ( " Batrachia , " Part III .
, Plate 2 , fig. 1 ) .
In the Green Turtle , I have shown that the intertrabecular cartilage is found as a rounded rod between OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHEF .
the rounded paired trabeculae , and that afterwards they flatten out , and it rises upwards to form the ethmo-septal partition of the nasal region ( ' Challenger Memoirs , ' vol. i. , part 5 , plate 2 , figs. 3-7 ) .
This is the manner of growth seen in all Reptiles above Serpents , in Birds , and in Mammals .
Here , in the lowest kind of skull we know of , the median prochordal cartilage appears as two tracts , one before the other , the two quite independent of each other , and very much unlike in form and consistency ; so that the skull itself in the^Myxinoid is formed of separate segments , although the facial arches are not differentiated ( or segmented ) from the edges of the paired cranial bars .
The long oval space in front of the short parachordal tracts , reaching from there to the ethmoidal commissure ( Plate 10 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) , is imperfectly closed below by a remarkable spoon-shaped cartilage of the soft kind ; this is the hinder intertrabecula ( ; p.i.tr .
) .
Under the proper pituitary region , we see the bowl of the " spoon , " which is rostrate and perforate behind ; the straight , narrow " handle " runs forwards , touching the ethmoidal commissure : it gently lessens from behind , forwards .
The handle leaves a large unfloored space right and left ; it is gently scooped above , and the " bowl " considerably ; this lamina is of even thickness , and is quite convex below .
At some height above the end of the handle , a new cartilage begins , very different from the last ; this is the front intertrabecula ( a.i.tr .
) .
This bar is composed of hard cartilage ; it is compressed vertically , is as wide as the handle of the " spoon , " but higher than wide ; it is thickest behind , where it is emarginate and acutely bilobed ; and it narrows gently forwards , and is then thickened again .
This " front intertrabecula " is one-sixth longer than the other , and more than its hinder fourth lies on the ethmoidal commissure , and under the long nasal labyrinth ( n.a. , e.n.t. ) .
These structures are quite unlike what is seen in the Lamprey , where the cornua trabeculae are connate , and abort the front intertrabecula , and where the hind intertrabecula is composed of hard cartilage , and is only distinct for a very short time after metamorphosis ( Plate 10 , figs. 4 , 5 , p.i.tr .
) .
The state of things seen in Myxine is evidently due to the intense specialisation of a type , which , on the whole , does not rise above the level { or platform ) of an Ammoccete .
Some other 44 novelties , " quite equal to this , will be seen as we proceed .
Below the middle of the auditory capsule ( Plate 9 , fig. 2 , there is a round fenestra ( mJi.f ) , half as large as the reniform subocular space ( s.o.f. ) ; and below this , separated by a thick bar , is another oval space ( 3 .
) , twice as large as the subocular .
These , also , are nascent segmentation lines , arrested and widened out .
The bar bounding the little upper space , behind ( h.m. ) , is quite similar to , but wider than , the one in front\#151 ; the pedicle ( pd .
) ; it is also composed of soft cartilage , whilst the thick bar running backwards from the pterygoid region under the reniform , and round and over the oval , fenestra , is hard cartilage .
The narrow end of the oval fenestra looks upwards and forwards , and the hard bar below and in front of it , which lessens , and then widens out again , is the pterygo-quadrate bar , ending below , not in a quadrate condyle , but in a thin , inturned edge , somewhat rounded in outline .
The hard cartilage ends , above and below , a little behind the large oval fenestra , and at its hind margin , and in the rest of the basket-work , the cartilage is soft .
Like the pedicle , the short har { h.m. ) behind the small , round fenestra is continuous with the parachordal ( i it is the " serial homologue " of the pedicle of the suspensorium , and therefore is the head of the hyoid arch ( = head of the hyomandibular ) .
Now we begin to feel our way in this unenclosed field ; we have lit upon some landmarks .
One continuous growth of cartilage is seen running sinuously , sub-parallel with the axis , from near the foreend of the nasal tube ( e.n.t.)to a point beneath the 3rd spinal nerve The fore part is what I have called the prepalatine " horn , " or spike ( ; it is soft ; then the hard tract behind it is first palatine ( pa. ) , and then becomes the top of the pterygo-quadrate region ( pg .
, q. ) , passing into the " shoulder " of the hyomandibular ( h.m. ) , the fore part of which answers to the wide snaggy part of that bone in an Osseous Fish , whilst the hind part corresponds to its " opercular process " for the os operculare .
The hard cartilage of the pterygoid region is separated from that of the palatine in front , and the quadrate behind and below , by a narrow soft tract .
The soft cartilage behind is first inter-hyal ( i.hy .
) then epi-hyal ( e.hy .
) , and then forms the top of the 1st epibranchial ( e.hr1 .
) The margining cartilage behind the large oval fenestra , sends back a rounded lobe into the hinder fenestra ( l.f s.)\#151 ; a two-horned space ; that lobateband is the " symplectic " region ( sy .
) ; it is soft ; but the back of the quadrate region , into which it passes , is hard .
The largest or hindmost two-horned fenestra although single below , is broken into two , above , by the main part of the hyoid arch\#151 ; the inter- , epi- , cerato- , and hypo-hyal regions ( i.hy .
, e.liy .
, c.hy .
, h.hy .
) .
This arched band , bending backwards , and growing downwards and forwards , to pass into the huge basal bar , is both wider and thicker than that of an adult Frog , but unlike its counterpart in that type it is continuous with the upper or hyomandibular part of the arch .
Nevertheless , its small width here suggests comparison with the hyoid of the adult , and not of the larval Frog , whose broad , short lower hyoid is suspended from the suspensorium , beneath the eye-ball , indeed under the front of the subocular space .
Here the hyoid arch is curved backwards so as to lie , in the middle , below the 1st spinal nerve ( sp.n .
) whilst the arrested quadrate tract ( q. ) is directly below the middle of the auditory capsule , a position attained by the quadrate condyle of the Frog soon after metamorphosis .
Where the soft cartilage of the hypo-hyal region ( h.hy .
) ends below , there the hard cartilage of the basi-hyal ( .
) begins , but there is no joint .
This continuous hyoid bar , as we have seen , passes over the last , or two-horned fenestra dividing it , above , and then riding over it .
Above , this hyoid bar passes directly into the arched cartilage bounding the hind fenestra ; below , that boundary ol cartilage passes inside the long hyoid bar , and becomes the symplectic region .
From its convex margin , behind , this hinder arch gives off two styliform outgrowths .
This semicircle of soft cartilage , which forms the hinder half of the boundary of the hinder OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
fenestra , is the 1st epi-branchial ; the 1st cerato-branchial is suppressed in but well-developed and distinct in Bdellostoma ( Plate 16 , figs. 1 , 2 , But the 1st pharyngo-branchial , or pier of the 3rd visceral arch , is well developed in both kinds ; here ( Plate 10 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ; and Plate 17 , figs. 1-3 , it is free from its own proper descending bar , lies obliquely inside it , and is joined to the general thickening of cartilage in the hind part of the fenestra .
Thence it is very thick , and clavato-lobate , filling up nearly half of the fenestra at its inner face ; it is there composed of hard cartilage .
The rest is a soft , long , sinuous , inbent rod , which ends in a point some distance behind the epi-branchial rays Of the 2nd branchial arch only the upper or pharyngeal part is developed ; but the relations of this and of the 1st pharyngo-branchial , enable us to determine the nature of these cartilages as to whether they are extra-branchials or intra-branchials .
When the lower part of the throat of Myxine is removed , and the pharynx slit open for some distance ( Plate 13 , fig. 7 ) , then we see that behind the pharyngeal opening of the posterior nasal canal ( p.n.c.)there is a peculiar hood of membrane , the " pharyngeal velum " ( vl .
) ; it is pyriform , its narrow end is crenate , and a septum divides it behind , between the terminal folds .
When this is dissected out and examined from below ( Plate 15 , fig. 6 ) , then we find that the 1st pharyngo-branchials are the supports of its outer margin , and that its swelling part has a skeleton derived from the 2nd pharyngo-branchials .
The branchial pouches and clefts , during growth , retired far away from the skeletal framework ( Plate 9 , fig. 1 ) , so that the cleft or opening of the first or hyo-branchial pouch lies below the twentieth spinal nerve ( sp.n .
) ; and the middle of the pericardium is below the fortieth ( sp.n .
) .
All these retired parts , pushed back , so to speak , by the huge lingual apparatus , are supplied by a cranial nerve , the vagus\#151 ; a remarkable " prophecy " of what will take place in the retirement of the respiratory organs in the higher Yertebrata .
The framework of the branchial region is left in its place , and is largely suppressed , and the parts that are developed are free to form new specialisations .
The lower part of the pharyngeal velum , covered by hypoblastic cells , is supported by the 2nd pharyngo-branchials ( Plate 15 , fig. 6 , 2 .
) , which are a pair of nbent , obliquely placed rods , thickish in front and very slender behind .
At their middle they are united by a transverse bar , and this bar sends forwards two slender rods , which grow in front into large , pedate lobes .
Where the slender hind part turns outwards , in the crenations of the velum , there another transverse rod is formed , thus uniting the right and left bars together ; this also sends off , backwards , a small median outgrowth , and two large , lateral , multilobate outgrowths\#151 ; a curious moss-like structure .
On the right side the rays of the 1st epi-branchial ( Plate 10 , figs. 1 , 2 , are united at their base , and form another fenestra , so that there are four visceral fenestrae on the left side , and five on the right .
And yet this remarkable basket-work is not homologous with the curiously similar MR. W. K. PARKER ON THE SKELETON growth in the Lamprey ; in that Fish the reticulation is formed outside the head-cavities ; in the Hag-Fish they must have been formed within them , as they lie close to the hypo blastic lining of the throat .
With regard to the great inferior median bar ( .
, there can be but little difficulty ; for not only the Lamprey , but the Bony Gar-pike ( ) also , shows us a similar huge glosso-hyal in front of the common basi-branchial bar .
In the latter Fish ( Phil. Trans. , 1882 , Plates 30-38 ) the basi-hyal is double , composed of two equal rounded rods , which are united along the middle .
Moreover ( most instructive of all the characters of that remarkable lingual skeleton ) , the cartilage is cut up into a number of transverse blocks by fibrous septa .
This takes place in a Ganoid Fish , whose larva has a suctorial snout .
In the Myxinoids the tongue dominates the whole body ; everything else yields to it , and is modified intensely by it .
In the Lamprey , as well as in Lepidosteus , the basi-hyal becomes double in front , here it is a four-fold bar or plate ; the solid cartilage being divided as it goes on expanding from behind forwards , first into two and then into four pieces ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) ; these are at once united and separated by tracts of soft cartilage or fibro-cartilage , and even by mere fibrous tissue in some places ; and the two inner pieces of the terminal front part have a fenestra between them , behind .
Then the bar becomes sub-carinate , but this angular projection is gradually lost , and the cartilage suddenly becomes soft , and a mere thick , almost fibrous web , is continued backwards behind the hypo-hyal junctions as an anterior basi-branchial ( b.br1 .
) , which is one-third longer than the basi-hyal region .
Near the middle , this soft fibro-cartilaginous bar becomes keeled and alate ; it then lessens gradually to a sharp point , which is gently upturned ; this hinder part of the huge median bar is scooped on its upper surface ; but the scooping becomes deeper and deeper , as we pass forwards to where the great fourfold basi-hyal is carinate below .
The two middle pieces , in front , together form an emargination , and the outer pieces are rounded off externally .
In front , the great lingual bar is twice as wide as the alate part of the basi-branchial behind .
This huge beam is swung from the head , in front of its middle , by those small , soft ropes , the descending hyoid bands ( .
) , which broaden and harden into the hyomandibular region ( above .
The broad , emarginate fore-end of the huge lingual cartilage nearly readies to the tips of the lower barbels , two pairs of which are seen protecting the slit-like mouth ; whilst seven more protect the opening of the nasal proboscis ( Plate 13 , fig. 7 ) .
The supra-lingual apparatus of Myxine .
The great basal bar ( Plate 9 , figs. 1-3 , b.hy , ) is only the coarser part , so to speak , ol the lingual dentary apparatus ; the two rows of teeth , right and left , themselves are set in a cushion of fibrous tissue , which is supported by a supra-lingual cartilage ( Plate 12 , figs. 7 , 8 ) , a superoddedstructure , the rudiment of which only re-appears OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
in the Lamprey with one row of teeth right and left ( Plate 14 , fig. 9 ) ; in both , cases these are peculiar to the Marsipobranchs .
When the great lingual cartilage , with the parts carried by it , is dissected out we have the structure shown in Plate 1 2 , fig. 7 ; and when the teeth are removed , then the " supra-lingual " framework is seen ( fig. 8 ) , a curious apron with slits in it , and short strings projecting from it ; it is composed of hard and soft cartilage , and of fibrous tissue ending , in front , in a horny comb ; the figure shows it as considerably outspread , for display ; \#151 ; the sections correct this .
In this hollow space lie the lingual teeth ( fig. 7 , s.l.t. ) ; the cartilage had better be described first .
This additional skeletal structure is formed in the floor and sides of the oral mucous membrane , and , with the structures it carries , reduces the cavity to a number of narrow chinks .
The general outline of the supra-lingual frame-work is heart-shaped , but widely open , with projecting spurs , behind , whilst in front it is transverse , slightly emarginate , and developed into a fine comb of horny spikes .
The fore part is membranous , but the cartilage creeps into this membrane , right , left , and in the middle\#151 ; most there ; there the fore margin of the cartilage has a small , toothed emargination in the middle and a large transverse notch , right and left .
The whole cartilage tends to break up into a series of three pairs of short arches ; within the hinder half there is a median bar between ; these , together , form a sort of intra-visceral series , mimetic of the proper visceral arches , just as the extra-visceral framework of the Lamprey 's pharynx is mimetic of such a series .
The first pair of these semi-segmented arches is wing-like , and is half separated by the next pair , which are narrow and feeble ; one snag ends both of these behind ; a crescentic cleft divides these for three-fourths of their extent ; these two first pairs are composed of soft cartilage .
The hinder pair ends in a snag , which is soft , and which is continuous in front with the root of the first snag .
The side bars are twice as large as those in front of them , and are composed of hard cartilage ; the median bar is soft , projects a little into the notch in front of it , and much more behind , where it reaches nearly as far backwards as the second pair of lateral processes .
As it lies on the large basal beam , this hinder median part reaches as far back as the hard cartilage , and further than the setting on of the hypo-hyal ends of the hyoid arches ( h.hy .
) .
In front , the horny comb helps to fill in the emargination of the basal beam .
* The arrangement of the golden-coloured horny supra-lingual teeth is in a double , arched series , with a large notch behind .
There are seven large teeth and nine small ones on each side ; the large teeth are in front of , and outside , the others ; their points look * There may seem to be some discrepancy between the figures of the huge basal beam\#151 ; upper , lower , and lateral , and of the sections that illustrate its structure still further .
The explanation is this : the dissections show the bars as invested with a strong perichondrium , and thus they loole nearer together than they really are .
The colouring of the dissections takes no account of this : the numerous sections , drawn with a camera , show the width of the intercartilaginous spaces .
backwards , and inwards , and they are shaped like a lancet blade , but with a slight curve , the convexity being antero-internal .
A cavity can be seen in them , and also that they are made of fibres arranged featherwise .
The thick horny layer is continuous at the base of the teeth ; their form is due to the folding of the lining membrane of the mouth , which undergoes corneous hypertrophy of the cells .
These structures will be described again , when we come to the sections .
The only antagonist tooth is very large and canine-shaped , attached to the ethmoid below , and pointing backwards ( Plate 10 , fig. 3 , et.t .
) ; an arrangement similar to that in " Cyprynoids , " where the basi-occipital , horny tooth antagonises the lower pharyngeal , true teeth .
On the branchial pouches of Myxine .
The extraordinary displacement of the branchial pouches in the Myxinoids is correlated with , or even caused by the enormous size of the lingual apparatus , the fore part of the great common basi-branchial bar being retained with the basi-hyal at the hind part of the lingual skeleton ( Plate 9 , figs. 1-3 ) .
But even this only reaches half way along the base of the oblique muscles that work the tongue .
There is , however , a second basi-branchial bar ( fig. 4 , b.br2 .
) , slenderer and flatter by far , and only half the length of the main part ; this is composed of hard cartilage , and after a space equal to its own length finishes the skeleton of the apparatus along the basal line .
In Myxine there is no skeleton to the six pairs* of cake-shaped branchial pouches , but the whole structure is membranous ( see J. Muller , I. , plate 7 , figs. 10-12 ; and my figure Plate 9 , fig. 1 ) .
Each pouch opens inwards into the narrow pharynx by a wide passage , and outwards by a largish tube which communicates with the opening of each succeeding tube , until they all have a common escape opening , behind .
Into this space , on the left side , there is a sort offstulous passage\#151 ; the " ductus oesophago-cutaneus " ( d. o .c .
) behind the last pouch\#151 ; a sort of abortive gill-cleft , with no gill structure , the use of which I cannot see , but the morphology of which is self-evident .
Behind these is the large heart ( A ) , giving off the arterial arches to the gill pouches .
+ On the sense-capsules of Myxine .
For a detailed account of these organs , the reader is referred to Muller 's Memoirs ; and for the auditory organs , especially , to Professor Betzius 's magnificent volume , just published.j ; * Mr. Weldon informs me that he has found some specimens of Myxine glutinosa with seven pairs of pouches .
f For details see J. Muller , I. , plate 7 .
J ' Das Gehororgan der Wirbelthiere , ' vol. i. , plates 1 , 2 , pp. 3-12 .
Stockholm : 1881 .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
To me they are part of the skeleton , and therefore come into iny description .
The eye-balls are extremely small , and inconspicuous ( Plate 13 , fig. 1 , e. , II .
) .
The auditory capsules are very small , but not so small by far as the eye-balls ; they are kidneyshaped , and look much larger below than above ( Plate 10 , figs. 1-3 , au .
) .
Indeed , below they are oval in form , with the narrow end in front , and , above , the concavity of the inner face , which is largely membranous , gives them their reniform appearance ; they are composed of hard cartilage , and look like little light green seeds .
They are confluent with the basis cranii and head of the hyomandibular cartilage ; I shall show this in my account of the sections .
The nasal capsule of the Myxinoids is a unique structure ; it is composed of the true olfactory organ and the vestibular region , which is proboscidiform ( Plates 9 , 10 ) .
The proper olfactory organ is covered with a grating of cartilage ( .
) , whose bars run in a longitudinal direction .
The whole capsule is wider than long\#151 ; wider than the brain cavity\#151 ; is gently emarginate behind , and apiculate in front .
The floor is membranous , and lies over the brain cavity behind , and the " front intertrabecula " in front .
The roof and sides are enclosed by the cartilaginous grating , in which there are nine sub-equal bars , united fore and aft by a continuous belt of cartilage ; the bars and these interspaces are nearly equal .
The olfactory nerves enter the membranous cribriform plate by five distinct bundles ( see in Bdellostoma , Plate 17 , fig. 4\#151 ; an anticipation of the Mammalian ethmoid ) .
The proboscidiform nasal tube is very exactly like a Mammalian trachea , being composed of a series of imperfect cartilaginous rings , of which I find eleven in Myxine , the last being apiculated ; it projects forwards above the single narial opening ; these parts will be better understood when we come to the sections .
The upper seven barbels or " nasal palpi " protect this opening , and the other four the oral opening ; they each have a delicate cartilaginous axis .
This type of skull remained an utter enigma to me until lately , even with the great work of Muller before me ; and I am not aware that any one , except Professor Huxley , has , of late years , attempted to interpret it ; nor should I have attempted now , if the task had not been lightened by my fellow workers , and if the early stages of the nearest relatives\#151 ; the Lamprey , and the " Anura " in their larval stages\#151 ; had not been mastered .
Of course , every determination of the nature of parts made now will be subjected to a severe and crucial test when the early stages of a true Myxinoid have been worked out .
For those stages I am anxiously looking ; but , meantime , this initial work will be something done ; a little change of nomenclature , if needed afterwards , will be no great matter ; and it is very important that this scarcely vertebrate type\#151 ; it has no vertebra\#151 ; should be understood .
The number of sections drawn is great , but they were all needed to make even the worker himself understand what lay before his eyes .
The reader will need to keep the figures of the dissections ( Plate 9 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , and Plate 10 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ; Plate 12 , figs. 7 , 8 ; and Plate 15 , fig. 6 ) before him whilst reading the following description of the sections ; the figures of the undissected Fish ( Plate 8 , figs. 7-9 ) will also be found useful .
Vertically transverse sections of the adult Myxine glutinosa .
Before describing these sections , I may remark that the nasal passage carries the upper lip far in front of the lower ; but the lower lip , even in the is far back ; whereas , in the adult Lamprey , the lower lip , when the sucking disc is in projects beyond the " anterior dorsal cartilage , " and its enclosing skin , the upper lip .
The end of the external nasal passage is protected by nasal barbels , and the mouth opens further back ; there are two pairs of oral barbels , the outer unciform and the inner mammillate .
There are three nasal barbels on one side and four on the other ; six thin sections of this part , one of which was drawn , show this ; and , corroborative of this fact , Dr. Gunther , in his * Study of Fishes ' ( p. 695 , fig. 320 , A ) gives , in a woodcut , the same number in Myxine Section 1 ( Plate 11 , fig. 1).\#151 ; Here the interior valvular opening of the external nasal duct ( e.n. ) shows four points of cartilage ( .
) cut through on one side , and three on the other ; the lesser barbels are close to the passage , and the larger further out ; the fore end of the prepalatine reaches to this point , * Section 2 ( fig. 2).\#151 ; The nasal canal or passage ( , ) is now complete , and the first ring is cut through in three places , above , and on each side ( see also Plate 10 , fig. 1 ) ; for this imperfect annulus has a rostrum .
Bight and left of the vertically elliptical passage , the largest nasal palpi ( n.hb .
) and the prepalatines are cut across .
The median line , below , is concave ; this hollow leads to the oral passage further back .
The upper outline of this section shows two sub-marginal shallow grooves Section 3 ( fig. 3).\#151 ; In this the sub-marginal grooves above are nearly obsolete , and the middle part of the top is slightly crested ; it is slightly grooved in its broad , lower part .
The prepalatine cartilages ( pr.pa .
) are now flatter and wider apart ; the section is through their arch in the middle .
This shows a wider but lower passage ( n.p. ) , widest below , and it is also seen that the annulus just reaches the bottom , and is thickened there , Under the nasal passage , the dilated fore end of the front intertrabecula ( a.i.tr .
) is cut across ; the bend downwards of its edges makes it like a Chinese bridge .
Section 4 ( fig. 4).-\#151 ; Here , in this larger section , both the upper and lower surfaces are hollow in the middle ; the nasal canal is becoming pyriform , with the narrow end below .
The annulus is like that of the last section , but larger ; but the prepalatine and front intertrabecula ( pr.pa .
, a.i.tr .
) are both flat in section ; here the prepalatine has evidently been cut through very obliquely .
The hard front intertrabecular bar is club-shaped in section in this and the next , the thick part being above .
* The lower , larger sections of cartilage are , by mistake in this and the next figure , lettered , with the rest , as nasal barbels ( n.lb .
) ; they are the free ends of the prepalatine spurs .
OF THE MARS1P0BRANCH FISHES .
Section 5 ( fig. 5).\#151 ; Here the pre-oral groove is deeper , and the front intertrabecula is here at its largest part .
The true form of the prepalatine section ( is seen here .
In this section , and in the 7th and 8 th , we get a view of an important character in the nasal passage ( n.p. ) , namely , that it has a valvular fold in it , growing down from above , and making it heart-shaped in section .
Section 6 ( fig. 6).\#151 ; This section is much larger than the last , and here we have the upper lip breaking into two large , sharp folds , and the palatal part of the oral vestibule wrought into two rounded folds .
The valvular process of the nasal passage was not clear in this section , but we see that here the annulus is not thickened below , and that it turns inwards right and left .
The front intertrabecula ( .
) is now long-oval in section , and the prepalatine { pr.pa .
) oval .
In the two folds of the upper lip ( 'u.l .
) we have the oral palpi ( o.bb .
) cut through , the outer longitudinally , and the inner across .
Section 7 ( fig. 7).\#151 ; In this section the two lobes of the upper lip { u.l. ) are confluent , but the palpi { o.bb .
) still come into section in a similar manner to the last ; there are now five folds of the prepalatal region above , and two below ; these latter look upwards , the meaning of which will soon be seen ( see figs. 8\#151 ; 11 ) .
The valvular fold in the roof of the nasal passage is here clearl } ' shown , and also the lessened depth of the front intertrabecula { a.i.tr.).The true thickness of the prepalatines { pr.pa .
) is here shown , just at their base ; and here also ( see Plate 10 , figs. 1-3 ) the ethmoidal region of the skull { eth .
) , with its attached conical yellow tooth ( .
) , is cut across.* The closed-in , or ethmoidal part of the skull is formed , as we saw , by the coalescence ( or continuity ) of the palatine bars outside , and the trabeculae within ; here , at the junction of these parts , the cartilage is high above , and gently convex below , where it carries the tooth .
Section 8 ( fig. 8).\#151 ; The section through the dilated hind part of the front intertrabecula ( see Plate 10 , fig. 2 , a.i.tr .
) was not figured ; here , in front of that part , it is nearly circular in section ; and because of the sinuous form of the hinder annuli , this section shows one cut into three pieces ( .
) ; the nasal tube still shows its valvular character up to the proper capsule .
The ethmoidal region { eth .
) is arched ; the outer part is palatine , and the middle trabecular .
A cushion of fibrous tissue fills the concavity , and to it is attached the great tooth { et.t .
) , which is here cut across obliquely near its apex , showing its internal cavity .
The lining of the mouth is sinuous , and the floor of it is now complete ; this is the first section through the lower lip { l.l. ) , the ascending fold of which is the fore part of the apparatus .
Eight and left of these folds , not far from the mucous membrane of the mouth , two large hard cartilages have been caught by the razor ; these are the outer front basi-hyals { b.hya .
) ( see also Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) .
These bars turn upwards and out* The specimen sectioned was older than the one which was dissected , and so the hard cartilage had extended further in the former ; this will explain some slight discrepancies between the two sets of figures as to colour , and also as to the fineness or coarseness of the dotting .
wards , and are sub-pyriform in section , the thick end being uppermost .
This 8th section is the first that takes in the lower lip , and we see how truly Ammoccetine these Myxinoids are .
Section 9 ( fig. 9).\#151 ; If this section be compared with the dissections we shall see what an elegant structure the nasal capsule { pi .
) of Myxine is ; in my Second Part I shall show that in the Lamprey this organ is a complete tvheel of plates in section ; here it is only half a wheel , and the folds only gently converge ; this is the most simple structure of the two .
Yet on this simpler platform there is a most curious specialisation of the cartilaginous capsule itself , and also of its vestibule .
The accuracy of the grating is well shown in the sections .
The two lowermost of the parallel bars are the widest ; each bar has its own fold of mucous membrane , and these nearly reach to the common cavity below , which is here very large .
Supporting this curious framework , we see the palato-trabecular bands ( p.tr .
, see also Plates 9 and 10 ) ; these are hard , oval , and tilted outwards , above .
Then , for a short distance in front of the cranial cavity , the floor of the cranio-facial framework is open , being only floored by membrane .
A large tract of palatal tissue intervenes between this weak floor and the roof of the mouth ( m. ) , the cavity of which is formed of three fissures , the outer and upper pair being semicircular , and the median , or lower , sub-oblong , but widest above , and having its sides running between deep folds .
Above , the median line of the mouth is grooved ; below , it is gently ridged ; the lateral folds are the fore part of the -lingual framework .
The proper lingual cartilages ( .
) are now seen to be , instead of two , for the median pair have come into view ( see also Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) ; the apparent distance between the bars , here , is due to the fact that only the projecting tore end of each was cut through .
Section 10 ( fig. 10).\#151 ; This section is very similar to the last , but is important as showing the fusion of the two median bars ( ) ; in this old specimen the fusion is perfect , but in the one dissected there was some appearance of distinctness along the midline , below ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) ; here the edges are thicker than the middle , which is gently scooped .
Section 11 ( fig. 11).\#151 ; Several new things come into this section ; and here in the middle of the nasal capsule the lower cartilaginous bars are seen to have their own fold , but it is not free , so that there are only seven distinct folds in the sac .
The great inferior fontanelle of the cranium bulges gently here , and the tip of the hinder intertrabecula ( p.i.tr .
) is cut across , where it supports the middle of the membranous floor .
The bulging of the floor makes a great space for the nasal cavity ( .
) .
The palato-trabecular bands { p.tr .
) are smaller at this part , and evenly oval in section ; between the skull and the roof of the mouth there is a considerable web of fibrous tissue .
The form of the mouth cavity here is greatly modified by the horny cheek-teeth-supra-linguals { s.l.t.)\#151 ; which are imbedded in a mass of fibrous stroma , and thus the wide mouth becomes a space of three fissures .
OF THE MARS1POBRANCH FISHES .
The two upper fissures are crescentic , and the form of the median space is a blunted wedge ; the floor has two ridges .
These sections show that the horny teeth are folds of a continuous epithelium ; they are huge papillce with a common horny base , and , distally , have their own cavity .
Under the folds of the mid-line the median part of the supra-lingual skeleton ( is cut through ; this lies on the fused middle pair of front basi-hyals , which plate is concave under the lesser upper cartilage .
The lateral pairs of the front basi-hyals are solid , oval in section , and are further apart from the middle pair than they seem to be in the bird's-eye view .
( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ; and Plate 12 , fig. 7 .
) Section 12 ( Plate 12 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This section is through the hind bar of the nasal capsule ( ol .
) , and the longitudinal rods of the grating are seen cut across close to the transverse bar .
This section is close in front of the membranous cribriform plate , which will be described in my account of Bdellostoma , in which ( and in the olfactory nerves , as shown by Muller , ( II .
, plate 2 , figs. 8-12 ) , pass into the capsule by jive roots on each side , each root breaking into a pencil of fibres as it enters the capsule ; a Mammalian anticipation .
The palato-trabecular bands ( .
) , and the handle of the hinder intertrabecular spoon ( p.i.tr .
) , are cut through , and are similar to what we saw in the last section .
So also are the basi-hyal bars ; but , here , the median supra-lingual plate is wider , and the side wings now come into view , to support the cheekteeth , now showing their distinctness in section .
Section 13 ( Plate 12 , fig. 2).\#151 ; This section is very similar to the last , but it is behind the nasal capsule , and through the fore brain ( C1 .
) ; a large space is seen between the fore brain and the feeble floor of the skull ; this is the posterior nasal ( or nasopalatine ) canal .
Section 14 ( Plate 12 , fig. 3).\#151 ; Here the cranial cavity is at its widest part ; the palato-trabecular bands are wider and less tilted at this part , which is in front of the small optic nerves ( see Plate 13 , fig. 1 , e. , II .
) .
The hinder intertrabecula [ p.i.tr .
) is cut across in three places , the edges of the spoon being caught , laterally .
The supra-lingual cartilage ( see fig. 8 ) is here continuous from side to side , being cut through in front of the foremost fissures ; it forms a deep trough for the bed of the paired rows of cheek-teeth .
Here ( see Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) the four front bars of the basi-hyal [ b.hya .
) are all distinct again , the section being made through the basi-hyal fontanelle .
In the last four sections , the two median bars have been confluent .
Section 15 ( Plate 12 , fig. 4).\#151 ; This section is through the fore margin of the subocular fenestra ( Plate 10 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , s.o.f. ) , where some soft cartilage divides the palatine from the pterygoid regions ( Plate 9 , figs. 1 , 2 ; and Plate 10 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ) , so that the hard cartilage [ pa. ) here is near the pterygoid ; the inner is trabecular ( Here the spoon of the hind intertrabecula [ p.i.tr .
) is cut across in front of its lateral attachment to the trabeculae [ tr .
) .
The area on each side of the naso-palatine canal [ p.n.c. ) is the tissue through which the small optic nerves pass , but they were not caught in this MDCCCLXXXIII .
3 E section .
The cheek-teeth are cut through nearer their point , and their enclosing cartilage is cut across through the first pair of fissures ( fig. 8 ) , so that it is not in piece , as in the last section , but in three .
The basi-hyal ( .
) shows some soft cartilage where the two pairs of front bars unite again , behind the median fenestra ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) , in front of the merely double part .
Section 16 ( Plate 12 , fig. 5).\#151 ; Here we have a section of the hinder intertrabecula ( p.i.tr .
) where it is confluent with the hind part of the trabeculae ; this is for a very short extent ( Plate 10 , fig. 3 ) , but the actual union is very instructive , for in these Myxinoids this median bar retains that distinctness from the paired bars , which , in other types , is a very temporary condition .
( See in the young Lamprey , Plate 10 , fig. 5 , tr .
, p.i.tr .
) At this point the basis-cranii is perfect , and being across the subocular fenestra ( Plates 9 , 10 , s.o.f. ) the cranium and pterygo-palatine region of the face are distinct for a short distance .
The supra-lingual skeleton ( see also fig. 8 ) shows the depth of the middle part , and the steepness of the two sides further back across the two first fissures .
The basi-hyal is now single ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 , b.hyP .
) , but this is down-bent in the middle , where two pieces have coalesced .
Section 17 ( Plate 5 , fig. 6).\#151 ; This is also through the suborbital fenestrse ( between tr .
and pa. ) behind the junction of the hinder intertrabecula with the trabeculae { p.i.tr .
, tr .
) .
The pterygo-palatine bar { pa. ) is dipping more and more towards the quadrate region ; the lateral supra-lingual plates are narrower , and the basal part broader and deeper than in the last ; the double basi-hyal ( is narrower and deeper .
Section 18 ( Plate 13 , fig. 1).\#151 ; In this section , behind the middle of the subocular fenestra { s.o.f. ) , a bundle of fibres is seen emerging from the brain ; this is the optic nerve II .
, with the aborted eye-ball at its extremity .
Here the trabecula { tr .
) is a narrow rod , and the pterygo-palatine { pa. ) is becoming flat and descending .
The naso-palatine canal { p.n.c. ) is still very wide , but the intertrabecula { p.i.tr .
) below it is narrowing .
This and the two next sections are through the hard cartilage of the hinder bars of the supra-lingual framework ; the lateral plates are narrower , and the basi-hyal { b.hyP .
) similar to what was seen in the last section .
Section 19 ( Plate 13 , fig. 2).\#151 ; This is the last section through the subocular fenestra { s.o.f. ) ; it is very similar to the last , but the intertrabecula { p.i.tr .
) is much narrower , and the pterygoid { pg .
) is very solid ; the basi-hyal ( is becoming narrower , and the supra-lingual { s.l.c. ) shows soft cartilage below , between the two hard bars ( see Plate 12 , fig 8 ) .
Section 20 ( Plate 13 , fig. 3).\#151 ; This and the next are between the first and second fenestrse , and therefore through the " pedicle " { pci .
) of the pterygo-quadrate region ( Plates 9 , 10 , pg .
, q. ) ; there is soft cartilage here , but with some hardened cells inside it ; the trabeculae { tr.)are widening towards the parachordals , and the intertrabeculae { p.i.tr .
) under the narrowing naso-palatine canal are becoming small .
OF THE MARSIPOKRAHCH FISHES .
The supra-lingual ( s.l.c. ) is cut through where the hard hinder bars run into soft cartilage above ; the upper plate is narrow ; the basi-hyal like the last .
Section 21 ( Plate 13 , fig. 4).\#151 ; This section was made through the second fenestra , the trabeculae [ tr .
) are cut across , and the pedicle in its hind part ; the descending pterygo-quadrate bar ( pg .
) is cut through much further down .
The naso-palatine canal ( p.n.c. ) is squarish , and the folds of its lining membrane are shown ; under it is the fast narrowing intertrabecula ( p.i.tr .
) .
Here the elbow of each hard hind bar of the supra-lingual ( Plate 12 , fig. 8 ) is cut across outside one of the hinder teeth .
The basi-hyal ( b.hyp .
) is now in two pieces , below .
Section 22 ( Plate 13 , fig. 5).\#151 ; This section is between the pedicle and the head of the hyomandibular , across the mandibulo-hyoid band and the mandibulo- hyoid fenestra [ m.h.f.)above , and through the quadrate ( q. ) below ; the space between these bars is the second lateral fenestra ( Plates 9 , 10 , l.f'2 .
) .
Inside the upper bar the front face of the auditory ca.psule [ au .
) is shaved off ; these organs are confluent with the narrow fore part of the parachordals ( Plate 10 , figs. 1-3 , au .
, where the trabeculae begin in front of the notochord ; the intertrabecula , [ p.i.tr .
) is very narrow here over the square naso-palatine canaP [ p.n.c. ) .
One of the hinder cheek-teeth is cut through on each side , and part of the cartilaginous wall and the two hind snags .
The narrowing hinder basi-hyals [ b.hyp .
) are distinct .
Section 23 ( Plate 13 , fig. 6).\#151 ; If this section be compared with the dissections ( Plates 9 and 10 ) the great conformity of the two kinds of preparations will be seen .
This and the next are the last sections in front of the notochord ; the moieties of the investing mass , or parachordals , form here a mere lip to the lower edge of the auditory shell [ au .
) , which is seen to be reniform in section , and membranous within , the walls being thickish , and composed of hard cartilage .
Here the tip of the howl of the intertrabecula [ p.i.tr .
) is perforated , and thus it is seen in section as two points of soft cartilage over the square naso-palatine canal [ p.n.c. ) .
The mandibulo-hyoid bar [ m.hy .
) is a small oval section , a considerable distance from the capsule ; much further down there is a curious hook of hard cartilage , and below it , but nearer to it , on the outside , another oval section .
The hook is the first pharyngo-branchial [ p.br1 .
) , at its enlarged end , where it partly occludes the second fenestra ( Plates 9 and 10 ) , and the bar below is the narrow neck where the pterygoid passes into the quadrate [ q. ) , under the second fenestra .
The basi-hyal is like that of the last section .
Section 24 ( Plate 14 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This section sheds light upon the dissections , and is also in turn explained by them.* Here , as in the last , the parachordals are very * I must here repeat the fact that these sections show the cartilage to be hard , in places where in the dissections it was soft , on account of the greater age of the specimen made into sections ; where any other apparent want of conformity exists between the two sets of observations , it is due to compression of the specimen in cutting , for my best specimens were not well preserved , and at the best the pharynx and its velum are very elastic and mobile .
narrow , turned upwards , and confluent with the auditory capsules ( cm .
) .
Under the square naso-palatine canal ( p.n.c. ) the tip of the bowl of the intertrabecula ( .
) is cut across , and near the capsule the mandibulo-hyoid bar At a considerable distance down the side of the throat the hooked cartilage or 1st pharyngo-branchial ( yp.br1 .
) is cut across , and below it the quadrate region ( q. ) .
The basi-hyal ( b.hy6 .
) is still double , and deep .
Section 25 ( Plate 14 , fig. 2).\#151 ; We have now reached the notochord ( we .
) , a mere point here , and not invested by the investing mass , which is still a mere selvedge to the inner and lower edge of the auditory capsule ( au .
) .
This section is behind the intertrabecula , and it shows the naso-palatine canal ( p.n.c. ) still closed below .
The lateral cartilages cut across are the mandibulo-hyoid band ( m.hy .
) , the first pharyngo-branchial ( p.br1 .
) , and the quadrate ( q. ) ; below , the basi-hyal is still double , and composed of hard cartilage .
The bracket-shaped fold of membrane ( above vl .
, the pharynx is below phx .
, the dotted lines are wrong ) across the roof of the-pharynx is the beginning of the " upper velum .
" Section 26 ( Plate 14 , fig. 3).\#151 ; This section shows the notochord ( nc .
) and the investing mass increasing , and the cavity of the auditory capsule ( au .
) laid open , and in this part the " anterior canal " is enclosed specially by cartilage .
The neck and shoulder of the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is first soft , and then hard cartilage .
The investing mass has grown beneath the capsule , as well as along its inner edge , below , and thus the hyomandibular which grows from it seems to be a mere outgrowth of the capsule .
Section 27 ( Plate 14 , fig. 4).\#151 ; The notochord ( nc .
) is now invested by the para-chordals ; the hyomandibular ( hm .
) is thinner in the middle , here , than at its fore edge , as seen in the last section .
Section 28 ( Plate 14 , fig. 5).\#151 ; This is a very instructive section , for here the nasopalatine canal ( p.n.c. ) is opening below , revealing the diagnostic character of the Myxi-noids\#151 ; ( " Hyperotreta " ) .
The investing mass now forms a neat trough for the notochord , and is , in reality , continued as a thin but confluent lamina under the auditory capsule ( au .
) where the cartilage is continuous with the soft head of the hyomandibular ( hm .
) By comparing this section with the side view ( Plate 9 , fig. 2 , hm .
) it will be seen that in this region the bar is soft in three places and hard in two .
Inside the lower or symplectic region of the bar ( sy .
) , where it runs into the quadrate region , the neck of the large 1st pharyngo-branchial ( p.br1 .
) is seen as hard cartilage .
The basi-hyal ( b.hyb .
) still retains the same character as in the sections immediately in front of it .
Section 29 ( Plate 14 , fig. 6).\#151 ; In this section the notochord ( nc .
, iv .
) is , for once , enclosed in cartilage .
In the younger dissected specimen ( Plate 10 , figs. 1 , 2 , ) the investing mass was not perfect anywhere above the notochord\#151 ; only below ( fig. 3 ) .
The auditory capsules ( au .
) are perfectly confluent with the basal plate , and here we are behind the head of hyomandibular , so that there is a space before cartilage is OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
shown .
The bar cut through is hyomandibular above ( just where the opercular process is given off in Teleosteans ) , and symplectic ( below .
Inside the bar the 1st pharyngo-branchial ( p.-br1 .
) is still hard .
The opening of the naso-palatine canal into the pharynx ( phx .
) is very wide here , and the round folds right and left are the sides of the " velum " ( vl.).The basi-hyal ( .
) is beginning now to lose its hard cartilage ; the soft cartilage at its edges is the distal part of the descending hyoid bar , the hypo-hyal region .
Section 30 ( Plate 14 , fig. 7).\#151 ; The ends of the auditory capsules are here cut through , and the investing mass ( iv.)is now a thick trough , in which the enlarging notochord lies .
The lateral cartilages ( sy .
, p.br1.)are the same as the last , but cut through a little further backwards .
The double basi-hyal now passes into the large soft elastic 1st basi-branchial above the hard paired cartilages The soft end of each descending hyoid bar ( h.hy .
) is seen cut across .
Section 31 ( Plate 15 , fig. 1).\#151 ; This section is very similar to the last , but is behind the auditory capsules , and the investing mass ( iv .
) is lesser , whilst the notochord ( nc .
) is larger .
Below , the hard cartilage of the basi-hyals grows for some extent into the 1st basi-branchial ( b.h.br .
) , the hypo-hyal end of the cerato-hyal bar ( h.hy .
) is still seen ; it is slightly confluent with the basal bar .
Section 32 ( Plate 15 , fig. 2).\#151 ; The notochord is now two-thirds of its average spinal thickness ; it is almost enclosed by cartilage ; this and the last are in the occipital region in front of the 1st spinal nerve ( Plate 9 , figs. 1 , 2 , sp.n .
) ; here the hind brain ( C3 .
) begins to be myelon .
The large flat symplectic region ( sy .
) still comes into section : above it is the inter-hyal bar ( i.hy .
) , and , within it , the 1st pharyngo-branchial ( p.br1 .
) .
Below , the hypo-hyal is seen to be distinct from the soft elastic 1st basi-branchial ( b.br1 .
) , the section of which is U-shaped and thick .
The form of the two-lobed velum ( vl .
) is well shown here , with the open channel in which the naso-palatine canal ends .
Section 33 ( Plate 15 , fig. 3).\#151 ; The notochord ( nc .
) has now acquired nearly its full size , and still it has two points of cartilage upon it , the extreme ends of the parachordals ( see figs. 1 , 2 , iv .
) .
A good distance down we get the upper band of the branchial basket-work cut through where the outer descending hyoid passes free from the hyomandibular region ; this is the inter-hyal region ( i.hy .
) .
This bar re-appears again below at the bottom of the cerato-hyal as the hypo-hyal region ( h.hy .
) ; in some of the sections not drawn these two points passed into each other , the compression of the head curved the bar so as to make the razor pass through it in two points ; and the same cause has forced the " velum " down , so that both in this and the next , the cartilages in it ( p.br1 .
, p.br2 ' .
) are lower down than in an undisturbed state .
Between these small points we see the leafy part of the symplectic ( see Plate 9 , figs. 1 , 2 , sy .
) , still coming into view in section .
The 1st basi-branchial ( b.br1 .
) is now a deep trough of vacuolar tissue , with the hypo-hyals ( h.hy .
) at its edge .
Section 34 ( Plate 15 , fig. 4).\#151 ; This is from a considerable distance back , so that all the cartilage seen in it is mainly that of sections of the terminal rays of the basket-work ( e.brk , p-.br1'2 .
) , with the very last part of the hyoid bar ( h.hy .
) , and , above , the upper part of the 1st branchial ( e.br1 .
) is cut through twice .
The 1st basi-branchial almost closes upon the median bands ( belonging to the huge lingual muscles ) that lie inside it .
This section was made between the 1st and 2nd spinal nerves ( Plate 9 , figs. 1 , 2 ) ( \lt ; sp.n .
) , and here the notochord ( nc .
) is of full size , and has no cartilage around it , whatever ; the parachordals are the only paraxial cartilages developed ; and , as in the larval Lamprey , there are no rudiments , even , of vertebrae ; here , for 03 .
, read my .
Beneath the huge lingual muscles , the intra-branchial skeleton breaks out again ; there ( Plate 9 , fig. 4 ) the 2nd basi-branchial ( b.br2 .
) reappears as a band of hard cartilage , broadish in front , and narrower behind , it is ventrally placed in relation to the first two branchial pouches ; it does not support them , but lies under the " raphe " of the hinder part of the massive muscular apparatus of the tongue ( l.m.m. ) .
The foregoing are all the skeletal parts I can find in this Fish , which in some respects is developed more in conformity with the higher Fishes\#151 ; Cartilaginous or Bony\#151 ; than the Lamprey , and in others is so very rudimentary ; altogether , it evidently belongs to the Ammoccetine type , although greatly specialised in its own way , to its own ends .
The sections just described will be equally useful for both Myxine and Bdellostoma , for this latter larger Fish differs only in non-essentials from Myxine ; my description of the former will merely relate to dissections , and to a general longitudinally-vertical section of the Fish .
On the skeleton of Bdellostoma Forsteri.* On the craniofacial apparatus of the adult Bdellostoma Forsteri .
The theca cranialis , or dura matter , in the hinder half , and the nasal capsule in the front half of the cranium ( Plates 16 , 17 ) , have to be removed before the proper framework can be seen from above ; the lingual apparatus has to be dissected from the lower part of the head before the basal part can be seen .
Neither in the adult of these two types , nor in the embryo of the somewhat higher Lamprey , do we see any other explanation of the pre-pituitary part of the cranium than that of an outgrowth or foregrowth of the axial part of the skull .
And yet the y\gt ; ro-chordal part begins * Dr. Gunther informs me that there is but one species of this Eish , and that the kinds called B. Forsteri and B. heterotrema , by Muller , are merely varieties of the same species .
Dr. Gunther 's description of the two Myxinoid Genera is as follows :\#151 ; " Myxine.\#151 ; One external branchial aperture opening only on each side of the abdomen , leading by six ducts to six branchial sacs .
" Bdellostoma.\#151 ; Six or more external branchial apertures on each side , each leading by a separate duct to a branchial sac .
" ( ' Study of Fishes , ' p..695 .
) Muller , I. , plate 7 , fig. 3 , gives a figure of Bdellostoma with seven pouches on the left side , besides the " ductus cesophago-cutaneous , " and .
only six pouches on the right side .
I found only six pouches on each side in my two specimens ; for plans of these remarkable branchial organs see the same plate in Muller s Memoir .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
first , and is larger , often much , larger , than the yxxra-chordal ; moreover , in most low forms the prochordal part is developed first .
The notochord is very uniform in bulk along the spinal region in these large long Fishes , only gradually lessening in the caudal region .
In the head , this rod ( Plates 16 , 17 , suddenly becomes conical , and ends between the middle of the auditory capsules ( au .
) so that this part of it is only one-tenth the length of the entire skull .
Of course in the embryo the relative length was much greater .
In the embryo of the Lamprey , as I shall show in my Second Part , it is half as long as the entire skull , and in the youngest chondrocranium figured by me in Lepidosteus ( Phil. Trans. , 1882 , Plate 30 , fig. 3 ) it is three-fifths the length of the skull .
So that we see that in these low Myxinoids\#151 ; the lowest known Yertebrata\#151 ; the chondrocranium , during development , must have undergone a large amount of change , and we seem to be almost as far off as ever , in these types , in their adult state , from finding an archaic skull .
Embryonic chondrocrania , in various , are our best guides .
The investing mass ( Plate 17 , figs. 2 , 3 , iv .
) is complete for a short distance , both above and below , and it projects , as hard cartilage , a little distance behind the auditory capsules , thus forming a rudimentary basi-occipital ; but there is no occipital arch or ring .
This short parachordal tract is round behind , and deeply notched in front , for the trabeculae begin opposite the middle of the small auditory capsules .
Those bands are only free from surrounding parts for a very short distance , being first ( at their parachordal roots ) continuous with the infero-internal edge of the auditory capsules , then on the outside with the pedicle , and in front of the short oval subocular fenestra ( s.of .
) , for the remaining two-thirds of their length , they are continuous with the palatines { pa.tr .
) .
This latter essentially compound part is very solid , and for the last sixth of the skull-length the two sides are completely united , so as to form a very solid ethmoidal region { eth .
) .
The whole roof is unfinished , being only closed by the dura matter , but the depth of the auditory capsules , and the thickness of the palato-trabecular bars , give a trough-like character to this flat , unfinished skull .
Below ( Plate 17 , fig. 3 ) , the main bulging is formed by the hinder intertrabecula { p.i.tr .
) and the auditory capsules , which project almost as much below as above ; the skull proper is gently convex in the fore part , and in front bends downwards a little .
The so-called " pituitary space , " or lower cranial fontanelle , reaches from the middle of the auditory capsules to the ethmoid , and is lanceolate , but its narrow fore end is rounded .
About half this membranous space is floored by the soft convex hinder intertrabecula { p.i.tr .
) , an additional cartilage , two-thirds the length of the skull , and which reaches from the trabecular roots to the ethmoidal commissure .
It is a with its handle dilated in front , and its bowl produced behind , into a short second process or beak ; the bowl occupies about a fourth of its length , and is near the hind part .
The whole upper part is hollow ( Plate 17 , fig. 2 , p.i.tr .
) , and at the middle of the bowl a short side band runs into the trabecula right and left , these bars being soft for a short space , where the junction takes place , and at this part the trabeculae bend inwards .
Exactly right and left of the we see the regularly oval suborbital fenestrse ( s.o.f. ) , each about half as large as the bowl , and having its long axis parallel with that of the skull .
The front part of the skull is elegantly ox-faced , ; the bovicorn outgrowths are the soft prepalatine bars ; .
) ; they are almost as long as the common palato-trabecular bar next behind them , and their length and distance apart are about equal .
They have , hung about them , four pairs of lesser horns , three pairs acute , and the fourth double and cervicorn ; these are the cartilages of the barbels ( n.bb .
, o.bb .
) .
The rest of the face is a kind of lattice work , ending behind in free cervicorn processes .
The second median element of the skull\#151 ; the front " intertrabecula " ( a.i.tr.)\#151 ; is spindle-shaped and compressed ; it is composed of hard cartilage , as in Myxine ; it overlies the ethmoid in its hind half , and the nasal sac lies over it .
The lower margin of the palato-facial growth is convex where the great prepalatine " horn " grows out , then concave , but is obliquely descending in the orbital region ; the deepest part of the palato-quadrate tract is directly below the middle of the auditory capsule , and here the quadrate condyle should be found ; there is none , and no mandibular rod .
The lower edge of the cartilage remains soft ( Plate 16 , fig. 1 , q. ) , and so also does the pedicle of the suspensorium ( pd .
) ; but there is no soft cartilage under the fore part of the subocular fenestra ( ) such as we saw in Myxine ( Plates 9 and 10 ) .
The second lateral fenestra ( If2 .
) is nearly twice the size of the one in front of it ; it is heart-shaped , having a round process of cartilage growing into its hind margin .
A second soft " pedicle/ ' the head of the hyomandibular ( hm .
) , is seen under the hind part of the auditory capsules ; between these there is a small upper fenestra ( Plate 17 , fig. 1 , m.hy.f ) , whose lower boundary is a thick bar of hard cartilage ( m.hy .
) , the shoulder of the hyomandibular ( Jim .
) .
The fore part of this bar is continuous with the suspensorium ( its metapterygoid region ) , whilst , behind , it ends in soft cartilage , the inter-hyal region ( , ) .
The upper part of the hyomandibular in osseous Fishes is mostly very broad , projecting over the short free metapterygoid in front , and growing backwards as the opercular process .
" This upper hyoid region finishes the second fenestra , behind , sending inwards a round lobe , and being also sublobate behind in three places .
Below and above , the small lobes of hard cartilage pass into the soft kind , above in the inter-hyal region , and below , in the symplectic ( sy .
) .
From the inter-hyal region the descending epi-cerato hyal band , two-thirds the width of the hard band in front , descends over the hinder or third or largest fenestra ( l.J 3 .
) , the hinder half of which is enclosed by the arcuate and spiked 1st epi-branchial ( e.br1 .
) " There is a notch , below , between the arrested quadrate and the lower part of the symplectic region ( sy .
) The cartilage is all soft here , and above the junction ol the two kinds the symplectic region sends a spur backwards partly filling in the lower part ol the space .
The long hyoid bar ( e.hy .
, c.hy .
) is sigmoid above , and then slants forwards and downwards to its hypo-hyal region where it is continuous with the basal bar ( b.hyb .
) .
The lower boundary of the large posterior membranous space 3- ) is * See Plate 17 , fig. 1 ; in fig. 2 , and in Plate 16 , fig. 1 , tliis part is lettered c.br .
by mistake .
OF THE MARSIPOBRAHCH FISHES .
formed by the passing of the symplectic into the 1st epi-branchial ; this bar becomes dilated behind , has a sinuous margin in front , and sends backwards two sharp spikes or rays ( non-segmented branchial rays ) .
But this enclosing arcuate spiked bar is only the middle of the large 1st branchial arch ; it has a very long pharyngo-branchial piece above ( p.br1 .
) and a long slender cerato-branchial ( below , both these rods are directed backwards and end in long , sharp styles , and both are jf-shaped ; the lower is a part nearly segmented off from the rest of the basket-work , still it is attached , below , to the basal bar , behind the descending hyoid .
The 1st pharyngo-branchial ( r1 .
) can be seen from the side filling in the hind and lower part of the middle fenestra , and serving to give " origin " to a fan-shaped series of muscular fasciculi ( Plate 16 , fig. 1 ) .
That part is confluent with the hyomandibular , and is hard ; the rest is soft cartilage and passes upwards a little , and then directly backwards , being enclosed in the edge of the " velum " ( Plate 16 , fig. 6 ; and Plate 17 , fig. 1 , These sigmoid rods are continuous on their inside , a little in front of their middle , with the fore end of another pair of rods , similar but smaller , and their serial homologues ; these are the 2nd pharyngo-branchials ( Plate 17 , figs. 2 , 3 , p.br3 .
) ; they have no descending part .
Each bar , towards the middle , is bent towards its fellow , like the larger first pair , and the two are twice united by a cross band .
The front commissural band sends forwards a pair of three-rayed rods spreading out over the others and looking forwards ; and from its hind margin it gives off a single median rod , which passes directly backwards over the hinder commissure , and then breaks up into two larger sub-terminal and two smaller terminal rays .
These four rays , and the points of both pairs of main pharyngo-branchials ( p.br1 .
, p.br2 .
) end in the transverse crenate hind margin of the great upper pharyngeal " velum " ( Plate 17 , fig. 1 , vl .
) .
This structure is much like that seen in Myxine(Plate 15 , fig. 6 ) , but in that Eisli the 2nd is free from the 1st pharyngo- branchial , and the median bar of the former is absent .
The complexity of this reticulation of cartilage suggests the presence of a 3rd pharyngo-branchial rudiment , but I am not certain of its existence .
The huge basal bar is quite like that of Myxine ( Plate 16 , figs. 1 , 2 , 6 , b hy .
, \ ) , the front part , for more than a third of the whole length , being composed of hard cartilage , and the rest of vacuolar tissue ; this part is the 1st basi-branchial ( b.br1 .
) , and the other basi-hyal ( b.hy .
) .
This is a curious piece of special " hypertrophy , " for the normally single basal bar is composed of two bars behind , and four in front , all large , solid bars , oval in section .
The outer of the front pieces are the largest ; a small fontanelle is seen where the six pieces meet , and they are all connected together by tracts of soft cartilage .
Looking at the structure as a whole , \#151 ; first , quadruple , then double , and then single , and composed of four varieties of connective tissue , \#151 ; we see , at once , that it is merely an enormous development of the common " basi-visceral " element .
It is hollow above , all along , as in Myxine ; in front , to hold the secondary trough-shaped cartilage ( supra-lingual ) , and behind , to receive the tendons of some of the muscles that work the whole lingual machinery .
Close behind the hard cartilage of the basi-hyal , the hypo-hyal end ( h.hy .
) of the descending hyoid bar is there continuous both with the hard and the soft cartilage .
and behind it , in its axil , the lesser bar , or 1st cerato-branchial ( is attached , \#151 ; semi-confluent .
The 2nd basi-branchial ( Plate 16 , fig. 3 , is a thickish rod of hard cartilage serving for the attachment of the oblique muscular mass of the lingual apparatus ; it is broad in front and narrow behind , and moderately thick .
Muller , who let nothing escape him , figures a triradiate tract of soft cartilage on the " oesophago-cutaneous duct " ( I. , plate 7 , fig. 5 ) .
I find a similar piece ( Plate 16 , fig. 7 , d.ce.c .
) .
This is extremely interesting and instructive , for it is all we have in this type\#151 ; ( I do not find it in Myxine)\#151 ; of the huge " extra-branchial " basket-work of the Lamprey , which can already be seen in embryos one-fifth of an inch in length .
Thus , if the Myxinoid is a sort of Ammoccete , it is an Ammocoete with a difference .
On the supra-lingual apparatus of Bdellostoma .
In these structures , again , we have a curious generic difference between Bdellostoma and Myxine ; this series of intra-visceral arches is , however , only gently modified in the former from that of the latter ( see Plate 12 , fig. 8 ; and Plate 16 , fig. 5 ) .
Here , there is no differentiation of the median bar ; the middle , in front , projects forwards as a triangular tongue of cartilage , but not behind the last lateral bars ; the middle , there , is merely a soft narrow tract .
The first pair of partly-segmented arches is the largest in this type , only the margin , all round , is soft ; it ends in two soft incurved horns .
The second pair of bars is soon lost in the third , which are almost as large as the first , and are quite hard , except the middle , or connective tract .
I see no horny points in the front part of the common ligamentous tract in front , such as we saw in Myxine ( Plate 12 , fig. 8 ) .
A deep fissure divides the first pair of arches from the other two ; they are only separated across the middle for one-third of their extent .
The richly golden , lanceolate teeth ( Plate 16 , figs. 4 and 6 ) , show two rows , right and left , of more equal teeth than in Myxine ( Plate 12 , fig. 7 ) ; there are eleven in each of the four rows ; I counted seven on the outer , and nine on the inner rows in Myxine .
The single upper tooth attached to the ethmoidal region of the skull is a very large " canine , " hooked backwards ( Plate 16 , fig. 6 ; and Plate 17 , fig. 3 , et.t .
) .
On the sense-capsules and barbels of Bdellostoma .
The auditory capsules ( Plate 16 , figs. 1 , 6 ; and Plate 17 , figs. 1-3 , in this type also are very small , and composed of hard cartilage ; they are quite confluent with the contiguous parts of the skuli ; seen from below ( Plate 17 , fig* 3 , au .
) , they are of a full oval form , and their long axis is almost parallel with that of the skull , but looking a little inwards in front .
Above ( figs. I and 2 , au .
) they are renifonn , on account of the deficiency of cartilage in the great " meatus internus ; " these OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
figures fail to show the involution of cartilage round the anterior canal as seen in the sections of these parts in Myxine ( Plate 14 , fig. 3 , au .
) .
The " meatus " are seen almost directly from above ( fig. 2 ) , and they are margined on their inner edge by the parachordals as they pass into the trabeculae ( iv .
, tr .
) .
The proper olfactory capsule ( Plate 16 , figs. 1 , 6 , na .
; and Plate 17 , fig. 1 , na .
) is only gently modified from that of Myxine ; its fore margin is partly united with the last ring of the outer nasal tube ( e.n.t. ) .
There are only eleven imperfect annuli in Myxine ( Plate 10 , fig. 1 e.n.t. ) , in this type there are twelve , but these are not Quite distinct , as in the Hag Fish ; here , the first three are united , and have one small and two large fenestrse ; the seventh and eighth are joined in the middle , and the twelfth , partially , with the proper capsule ( na .
) .
So unlike is the structure of the lips in these , to what is seen in any other types , that nothing but re-dissection enabled me to understand Muller 's perfectly accurate figures ; especially was this the case in the " barbels .
" Here ( Plate 16 , fig. 1 ; and Plate 17 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , n.bb .
, o.bb .
) they are much more modified than in Myxine ( Plates 9 and 10 ) .
The upper pair ( 1st nasals ) are united across the mid-line by a strong commissure which passes under the top of the front intertrabecula ( a.i.tr .
) , and the second pair ( 2nd nasals ) are attached to the first where they pass into the cross band .
The upper orals ( o.bb .
) are triradiate , they send an upper curved ray to join the two nasal palpi , and from their proper palpal part which grows forwards they send backwards a lobe over the 4th ( or 2nd oral ) .
This latter cartilage is bent forwards , and then sends out three short snags ; its upper horn fits into the angle of the 1st oral , and its hinder horn turns backwards and downwards , nearly reaching the front of the " supra-lingual " apparatus .
If we turn to the figures of the barbels in their undissected state , we shall see reason to believe that they all belong to the upper lip ( Plate 8 , figs. 7-9 ; Plate 13 , fig. 7\#151 ; Myxine ; and Plate 15 , fig. 5\#151 ; ; in the large kind the 2nd orals are but little produced as barbels , but form an evident fold in front of the lower lip .
Thus , in the fullest development of a Myxinoid 's mouth there is no more promise of what the transformed Lamprey shows in the lower lip than in its own larva\#151 ; the Ammoccete .
As Marsipobranchii , the " Myxinoids " are more specialised , in some important respects , than the " Petromyzoidsbut as suctorial Fishes they are altogether below them , bearing to them a sort of quasi-larval relation .
Description of a longitudinally vertical section of the head of Bdellostoma .
In this section ( Plate 16 , fig. 6 ) we see many things brought into view which may help in the comprehension of this remarkable type of cranio-facial skeleton .
Muscular segments and their interseptal fibrous tracts are found running over the brain up to the nasal sac ( na .
, ol .
) ; the brain mass ( C. ) insensibly passes into the my cion ( my .
) , which latter is supported by the large notochord ( nc .
) .
This figure shows the vacuoles 3 f 2 ending some distance behind the thick sheath ; this appearance is due to the fact that the section was not quite in the middle : the proper structure of the notochord ends opposite the middle of the ear capsules .
The capsule ( .
) is shown in section near the meatus , so that its thickness appears greater than it is in reality , as the parachordal cartilage thickens it on the inside .
The folds of the nasal capsules ( na .
, are brought into view , and the cartilages ( na .
) , both of the capsule itself ( ol .
) and of the external nasal tube ( e.n.t.)are cut through , very near the mid-line .
A continuous passage is seen from the external opening ( e.n. ) of the nasal passage to the fringed lips of the naso-palatine canal ( p.n.c.)which opens at the mid-line at the fore part of the velum ( vl .
) , here shown in section , with a point of cartilage in it , here and there , caught by the razor .
The size of the cavity and the character of the folds inside it , of the fore part of the naso-palatine canal ( p.n.c. ) are seen in this section , and also that these lie on the floor of the skull , between the hind intertrabecula and the brain ( C. ) The opening out of the skull is behind that median cartilage , between the produced " bowl " of the " spoon " ( Plate 17 , fig. 3 , p.i.tr .
) and the beginning of the trabeculae ( tr .
, iv , ).Another cavity\#151 ; a space between the hinder intertrabecula and the roof of the mouth\#151 ; is also seen .
This is evidently artificial , and caused by the tearing away of the mucous membrane of the palate from the hinder intertrabecula .
A curious coiled valve is seen behind these two openings , under the fore part of the velum , at the beginning of the pharynx ; a little in front of this fold , the proper oral cavity ( lined with epiblast , the pharynx being lined with hypoblast ) ends .
At this part , the entrance of the proper pharynx , the passage is a series of slits or fissures ( see the sectio ?
is of the skull of Myxine , in Plate 13 ) .
Somewhat left of the mid-line , this section shows only part of the front intertrabecula ( a.i.tr .
) , and thus the whole of the great median tooth ( et.t .
) , and the ethmoid ( eth .
) , a little to the left , is seen under it .
Both the ethmoid and the base of the tooth are enclosed in a special fold of membrane over the oral entrance ( m).That space would be large , but two additional lingual masses , the paired rows of teeth ( s.l.t. ) said their membranous and cartilaginous settings fill the greater part of the space between the basi-hyal and the palatal membrane .
This section being a little to left of the mid-line , shows the inner edge of the left bars of the basi-hval ( b.hy .
) , and as the middle bars of the front or quadruple part are shorter than those outside , the cartilage is seen to stop short of the fore end of the under face ( lower lip ) .
These cartilages are enveloped in the muscular masses that move the tongue .
The upper or ethmoidal tooth is seen to turn its point backwards ; in the figure it is in front of the paired rows of supra-lingual teeth but the powerful muscular apparatus works so as to make it antagonistic to the lower teeth , generally , which can be made to move backwards and forwards , and from side to side .
This whole muscular mass , in my larger specimen , is sub-cylindrical , six inches long , and one inch in thickness .
The reader is referred to Muller 's works for a description of the whole apparatus .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
On the cranial nerves of Bdellostoma .
For a detailed account of these , and also of the whole nervous system , the same excellent author is referred to ; but I have given an outline figure of the skull with the cranial nerves shaded , to help in the determination of the skeletal parts .
My own dissection of these nerves was made with the help of Muller 's work ( ' Neuro-logie , ' III .
) .
I made no attempt to find any filaments of the 3rd , 4th , and 6th .
The vagus nerve ( Plate 10 , fig. 4 , X. ) probably contains the fibres that in higher forms are given off as the separate glosso-pharyngeal .
Muller does not figure that nerve as distinct , nor can I find it .
But the vagus is very large , and as its proper related structures are removed far backwards , passes directly backwards at right angles to the spinal nerves ( sp.nU3 .
) .
The vagus emerges behind the auditory sac ( an .
) , over the short parachordal .
The 8 th or auditory nerve is not figured ; it passes into the auditory capsule through the great meatus internus .
The 7th nerve ( VII .
) is shown ; it finds its way out of the skull in front of the auditory capsule , between the " pedicle " and the head of the hyomandibular ( fig. 2 , pel .
, hm .
) , and turning backwards , burrows , under the " shoulder " of the hyomandibular , escaping again behind the symplectic region\#151 ; the hind boundary of the second fenestra \#151 ; and passes down with , and in front of , the descending epi-cerato-hyal bar ( eJiy .
, The 5th or trigeminal nerve ( V. ) is immense , and at first sight rather difficult of interpretation .
I follow Muller 's notation , finding nothing in it to criticise .
It is seen emerging in front of the auditory capsule over the pedicle ( .
) .
It then breaks up into three branches , two of which pass over the subocular fenestra ( s.of ) , whilst one pierces that membrane behind , and passes under the palato-quadrate cartilage .
The 1st branch , the orbito-nasal ( or ophthalmic , V1 .
) , is very large , and soon breaks up into a lesser outer and a larger inner branch .
The inner branch then becomes trifid .
The " upper maxillary , " or second branch of the trigeminal ( V2 .
) is considerably less than either of the three branches of the ophthalmic ; it runs over the subocular fenestra , and the palato-quadrate cartilage .
The " inferior maxillary , " or third branch ( V3 .
) , is a3 large as the ophthalmic , and as soon as it has passed through the suborbital fenestra it breaks up into four branches , which pass to the lower parts of the head in front .
The optic nerves ( II .
) are about a fourth the size of the small maxillary nerve ; they pass under the ophthalmic ( orbito-nasal ) , and are distributed to the arrested eye-ball ( e. ) , enclosed in the much larger fat body ( c.a. ) .
The olfactory nerves ( I. ) pass through the membranous " cribriform plate , " which is in two divisions and oblique .
The huge olfactory lobes give off each fve * and these , beginning to bifurcate , pass in a sub-horizontal row , right and left , to the olfactory folds ( ol .
) ; here there is a most remarkable anticipation of the Mammalian * The outer or fifth bundle of the olfactory nerve lies somewhat under the fourth , and is not shown in the figure .
olfactory nerves and cribriform plate .
If we now compare the diagram ( Plate 17 , fig. 4 ) , and the meagre description just given of the cranial nerves of this great Myxinoid , we shall find many things become clear that have been for a long time confusing to the students of these types ; for there has , apparently , been much concrescence and much suppression in the development of the cranial nerves in these remarkable Fishes .
In the Lamprey , also , there are some very abnormal characters .
The right determination of the skeletal parts is largely dependent upon a true knowledge of the cranial nerves , and , vice-versd , they have to be considered in their relation to the supporting skeleton .
Muller II .
( " Gehdrorgans , " plate 3 , figs. 3 , 4 , 5 ) gives upper , lower , and side figures of the brain of Petromyzon fluviatilis , and he enumerates the following nerves going off from it right and left , viz. : I. Olfactory ( large and single ) ; II .
Optic ( moderate size ) ; III .
Oculo-motor ( very small ) ; IV .
Trochlearis ( still smaller ) ; V. Trigeminus ; VI .
Facialis ; VII .
Acusticus ; VIII .
Vagus ; IX .
Hypoglossus .
In the second plate figures are given of the brain of Bdellostoma ( figs. 8 , 9 ) and Myxine ( figs. 11 , 12 ) .
In these closely related types we have the following cranial nerves given by , Muller , viz.:\#151 ; I. Olfactory ( in five main nerves on each side , and these also each breaking into a small pencil of branches ) ; II .
Optic ( very small in , but paired ; much smaller and only drawn on the right side in ) ; III .
Trigeminus ( very large ) ; IV .
Facialis ; V. Acusticus ; and VI .
Vagus ( very large ) .
In his paper ( III .
) on the \#166 ; Neurologic ' of the Myxinoids , Muller ( plate 2 , figs. 4 , 5 ) gives the cranium and its nerves in Bdellostoma from above and below .
In the upper view the optic nerve is shown passing under the ophthalmic nerve , which is drawn with its first bifurcation .
The larger part of the nerve is seen penetrating the suborbital fenestra , and in the lower view this lower part ( 3rd branch ) is seen broken up into four branches , the second of which is re-split .
But in the upper view there is also , behind the ophthalmic ( 1st branch ) , a small nerve passing over the palato-quadrate cartilage ; this he does not name .
But in the next plate ( III .
, figs. 2 and 3 ) we have this 2nd branch of the trigeminal figured on both sides .
In the upper view ( fig. 3 ) it is seen as passing over the cartilage bounding the suborbital fenestra , and in the side view ( fig. 2 ) it is shown as running forwards along the upper surface of the palato-quadrate nearly up to the beginning of the soft " pre-palatine horn .
" Here it is called " Vorderen ober Ast des Trigeminus , " whilst the large branches that grow from the stalk that pierced the fenestra are called " Unter Aeste desselben , " \#151 ; the lower branchesof the same nerve .
In the upper view ( fig. 3 ) , where the 1st and 2nd branches ( only ) are drawn , he calls this small nerve " Hinterer oberer Hautast des Trigeminus ; " whilst the branches of the great 1st division ( Ophthalmic ) , " Vorderer ober Ast des Trigeminus , " he calls " 1 , Hautast ; 2 , Nasenast ; 3 , Oberer Endast ; and 4 , Unterer Endast .
" OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
That there is no mistake here I feel certain ; my own dissection shows the same pair of nerves , namely , the small , proper , 2nd branch of each trigeminal.* Now in these Myxinoids we miss the 3rd , 4th , and 6th cranial nerves ; also the glosso-pharyngeal or 9th nerve as a separate nerve .
In Petromyzon , also , Muller misses the 6th or " abducens " ( II .
, plate 3 , figs. 3-5 ) ; the " upper maxillary branch " of the trigeminal is small and inconspicuous but quite as large as in Bdellostoma .
This being the case we have an explanation of what has been a difficulty with us for years ; Professor Huxley !
speaks of " a singular anomaly " in both Petromyzon and the Myxinoids , in that " Both the second and third divisions of the trigeminal nerve pass through the subocular membrane , and therefore on the ventral side of the ( subocular ) arch ; " but this error was corrected by him soon afterwards .
That the arch and the membrane ( fenestra ) are both the exact counterparts of what we find in the various Batrachian larvae I cannot doubt ; and there is no doubt now , of the existence of a 2nd branch to the trigeminal in Petromyzon ; and , as we have just seen , such an upper branch does exist in Bdellostoma , between the huge 1st and 2nd branches .
Summary and conclusion of Part I. ( Myxinoids ) .
In seeking for light upon the primordial condition of the Yertebrata one naturally looks to such forms as the Myxinoids , for in these types , even in the adult state , there are neither limbs nor vertebrae , and no distinction between head and body , except the rudiments in the head , of a cartilaginous skull , a continuous structure , not showing the least sign of secondary segmentation , and by far the greater part of which is in front of the notochord , or axis of the organism .
But here our gradational work agrees with the developmental , for the continuous skull bars constantly arise before the secondary cartilaginous segments that are formed between the " Myomeres " behind the head .
Evidently , therefore , the early " Craniata " grew supports to the enlarged and sub-divided front end of the neural axis long before anything beyond strong fibrous septa were developed between the muscular segments of the body .
As for the linear growth , and the less or greater extension backwards of the main organs , \#151 ; circulatory , respiratory , digestive , and uro-genital\#151 ; that in the variation of the primordial form was a thing to be determined by the life and surroundings of the type .
" Thereafter as they may be , " was the tentative idea in this case .
Certainly in the Marsipobranchs and in their relations the larval " Anura , " we have the most archaic " Craniata " now existing ; in these the organs may be extended far backwards in a vermiform creature , as in these low Fishes , or kept well swung * See also Retzius , plates 1 and 2 , and note to p. 42 , in Part II .
t See " On the Nature of the Cranio-facial Apparatus of Petromyzon " ( Jour , of Anat .
and Phys. yol .
10 , p. 423 , a paper to which I am exceedingly indebted in working out these types ) .
beneath the head ; the body and tail , together , forming merely a propelling organ , as is seen in Tadpoles , especially the gigantic Tadpole of Pseudis .
Thus we see that in low , limbless tj^pes there is no necessity for the development of more than fibrous metameres , but the vesicular brain , the suctorial lips , the purseshaped gills , and the special organs of sense , these all call for support from some tissue more dense than a mere fibrous mat or web .
In the Myxinoids we see that four special modifications of the connecti ve tissue series are developed for the support of the properly cephalic organs , and two of these for them , only , so that these Fishes are chordate and craniate , but are not vertebrate , if we stick to the letter .
At first some disappointment is felt , after careful study of these types , for notwithstanding the low level in which they remain , they are mere specialised Ammocoetes , keeping on the same " platform " as the larval Lamprey ; yet some parts of their organisation do undergo a marvellous amount of transformation , and are , indeed , as much specialised in conformity with their peculiar habits of life as any Vertebrates , the highest not excepted .
Yet , on the whole , the Myxinoids are a sort of Ammoccetine type , whilst the transformed Ammocaete , the Lamprey , comes nearest to the untransformed Frog or Toad , \#151 ; the Tadpole .
But the mere putting of this shows ( at any rate ) what losses the fauna of the world has sustained during the evolution of the " Craniata .
" For us , now , the Myxinoids , Petromyzoids and Anurous Amphibia must all be kept " within call " of each other ; but the types that have been culled out , between them , cannot be numbered .
Some other types of Fish are evidently the descendants of primordial " Marsipo-branchs , " notably Lepidosteus , the development of which has lately been made out and the results published in the Philosophical Transactions ( 1882 , Part II .
) .
But the C'himceroidsand Dipnoi , and , what is still more important , the Myxinoids themselves , have still to be followed through their early stages ; if the present paper is of any value to the Morphologist , one on the embryology of these low forms would be worth many such papers .
The Myxinoids keep on the low platform of the larval Lamprey ( or Ammoccete ) in the following particulars , namely :\#151 ; a. The notochord has no paired cartilaginous vertebral rudiments in the spinal region .
b. The trabeculae end in the ethmoidal region without growing forwards into a cornu ( or two cortinuous cornua ) .
c. There are merely " barbels " round the mouth ; no perfect labial cartilages .
d. The last character involves another , namely , that the special armature of horny teeth attached to the labials in the adult Petromyzon is absent .
e. The organs of vision are very feeble , and probably almost useless ; in the Ammoccete they are arrested for a time .
f. The cranium is a mere floor , without side-walls or roof .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
The Myxinoids come near to the adult Lamprey in the following particulars , namely:\#151 ; a.There are developed outside the skull proper , but not segmented from it , palato-quadrate and hyoidean cartilages .
b. There is a very large median cartilage belonging to both the hyoid and branchial regions .
c.The cranium acquires a floor by the development of a special hinder intertrabecula .
d. There is a large median cartilaginous olfactory capsule .
The Myxinoids go beyond even the adult Lamprey in the following characters , namely:\#151 ; a. The facial basket-work is much more perfect , and as this is a generalised condition of the true intra-visceral system of cartilages , it is a very important character .
There is not only an equal development of the " but the suspensorial part of the hyoid is developed also ( it is suppressed in the Lamprey ) ; and there is ( in Bdellostoma ) a large complete 1 st branchial arch , and in both kinds pharyngo-branchial rudiments of the 2nd branchial arch .
b. The respiratory pouches are much more specialised , being carried far back under the spine .
c. There is not only a very distinct sub-cranial intertrabecula , but also a large pre-cranial or nasal median cartilage of the same nature .
d. The opening to the median olfactory sac is not a mere short membranous passage , but a long tube , encased in a series of cartilaginous ( imperfect ) rings .
e. Correlated with the non-development of the suctorial labial apparatus , there is an enormous development of the lingual , this basal bar becoming not only double , but in front quadruple ; and the " supra-lingual cartilages , " which are very small in the adult Lamprey , and carry only one pair of rows of small recurved teeth , in the Myxinoids are very laige , and carry two pairs of rows of large teeth , with the addition of a median ethmoidal antagonist tooth .
Lastly , the greater development of the intra-visceral cartilages is correlated with the suppression of the extra-visceral basket-work , seen both in the larval and adult Lamprey , and also in the larvae of the " Anura , " generally .
Explanation of the Abbreviations .
The Homan numerals indicate nerves or their foramina .
a. i.tr .
Front intertrabecula .
cm .
Auditory capsule .
bb .
Barbels .
b.br1'2 .
Basi-branchials .
b. c.f. Basi-cranial fontanelle .
b.h.br .
Basi-hyobranchial .
b.hya .
Front basi-hyal .
b. hyh'P .
Hind basi-hyal .
b.p. Buccal pouch .
hr.a .
Branchial artery .
br.c .
Branchial canal .
br.d .
Branchial duct .
br.p .
Branchial pouch .
C1,2\gt ; 3 .
Cerebrum .
c. a. Corpus adiposum .
c.br .
Cerato-branchial .
c. h y. Cerato-hyal .
c. tr .
Cornu trabeculae .
cll'2'\ Clefts .
d. m. Dura matter .
d. ce.c .
Ductus oesophago-cutaneus .
e. Eye e.br .
Epi-branchial .
e./ ^'3 .
Externa ] ( lateral ) fenestrae .
e.hy .
Epi-hyal .
e.n.t. External nasal tube .
e.pa .
Ethmo-palatine .
eth .
Ethmoid .
et.t .
Ethmoidal tooth .
/ .
Fenestra .
h. Heart .
h. hy .
Hypo-hyal .
hm .
( and h.m. ) Hyomandibular region .
i. vl .
Inferior velum .
l.p\ Lateral fenestrae .
u. Lower lip .
l.mm .
Lingual muscles .
m. Mouth .
m.h.c Mandibulo-hyoid-cartilage .
m.h.f. ( m.hy.f.and h.m.f. ) Mandibulo-hyoid-fenestra .
m.hy .
Mandibulo-hyoid .
my .
Myelon .
na .
Nasal capsule .
n.bb .
Nasal barbels .
nc .
Notochord .
n.c. Nasal cavity .
o.bb .
Oral barbels .
ol .
Olfactory folds .
pa. Palatine cartilage .
pal .
Palatine mucous membrane .
p.br1'2 .
Pharyngo-branchials .
pg .
Pterygoid .
phx .
Pharynx .
'p.i.tr .
Hinder intertrabecula .
p.n.c. Posterior nasal canal .
pr.pa .
Pre-palatine cartilage .
p.tr .
Palato-trabecular .
d- Quadrate region .
S.l.G. Supra-lingual cartilage .
s.l.f Supra-lingual folds .
S.l.t. Supra-lingual teeth .
sp.n .
Spinal nerve .
s.o.f. Suborbital fenestra .
sy .
Symplectic region .
th.v .
Theca vertebralis .
Upper lip .
vl .
Velum .
OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
Description op the Plates .
Plate .
Fig. Number of times magnified .
8 1 Embryo of Petromyzon planeri,7*8 millims. long ; side view 33 3* 2 The same ; part of upper view 33 33 3 The same ; part of lower view 33 33 4 Larva of Petromyzon jluviatilis , 2 inches long ( nearly ) ; side view 5 3 3 5 The same ; part of upper view 5 33 6 The same ; part of lower view . . .
5 3 3 7 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; side view ... ... .
Natural size 33 8 The same ; part of upper view Natural size 33 9 The same ; part of lower view . . .
... Natural size 33 10 Adult Petromyzon marinus ; lower view of head .
Natural size 33 11 Adult Petromyzon Jluviatilis ; lower view of head .
2 3 3 12 The same ; side view of head 2 33 13 The same ; upper view of head . .
2 33 14 Adult Petromyzon planeri ; side view of head 2 33 15 The same ; lower view of head 2 33 16 The same ; upper view of head 2 9 1 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; dissection of fore part ; side view 24 33 2 The same dissection ( part ) 5 33 3 The same ; lower view 5 33 4 The same ; further back ; lower view 5 10 1 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; skull , upper view ... .
5 33 2 The same , with base exposed 5 3 3 3 The same ; lower view 5 33 4 Newly transformed Petromyzon marinus ( 4 inches long ) ; skull , upper view ... ... ... .
124 33 5 The same ; lower view 124 33 6 The same ; inferior labials ; lower view 124 33 7 The same ; framework of " inferior velum ' .
15 j ?
Plate .
Fig. Number of times magnified .
11 1-11 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; first eleven of a series of transversely-verfcical sections through cephalic region 10 99 12 The same ; fore part of supra-lingual cartilage ; upper view 18 12 1-6 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; twelfth to seventeenth of the series of vertically-transverse sections 10 99 7 The same ; lingual and supra-lingual skeleton , with the teeth in situ ; upper view 5 99 8 The same ; supra-lingual framework ; upper view .
5 13 1-6 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; eighteenth to twenty-third of the vertically-transverse sections 10 99 7 The same ; cephalic region , with lower part of face and throat removed ; lower view 2i 99 8 Adult Bdellostoma Forsteri ( 2 feet long ) ; branchial region ; lower view f natural size 14 1-7 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; twenty-fourth to thirtieth of the vertically-transverse sections 10 99 8 Adult Petromyzon Jluviatilis ; lower velum , and fore part of branchial region ; upper view n 99 9 Adult Petromyzon jluviatilis ; tongue , with anterior and supra-lingual teeth 99 10 The same ; vertical section showing supra-lingual and fore part of basi-hyal cartilages H 15 1-4 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; thirty-first to thirty-fourth of the vertically-transverse sections 10 99 5 Bdellostoma Forsteri ( 1^ foot long ) ; from snout to cardiac region ; lower view | natural size 99 6 Adult Myxine glutinosa ; hind part of visceral arches forming framework of " velum ; " lower view . . .
9 9 9 7 The same ; fore part of 1st pharyngo-branchial .
9 99 8 Adult Petromyzon jluviatilis ; vertical section of fore part of branchial region to the left of mid line .
4 99 9 The same ; another similar section at mid line 4 OF THE MARSIPOBRANCH FISHES .
Plate .
Fig. Number of times magnified .
16 1 AdultBdellostoma Forsteri , large specimen ( 2| feet long ) ; skull , side view of skull 2 3 3 2 The same ( large specimen ) ; basi-hyobranchial and supra-lingual cartilages ; lower view 33 3 The same ( large specimen ) ; hinder part of lingual muscular mass with 2nd basi-branchial li 33 4 The same ( large specimen ) ; supra-lingual apparatus , with teeth 2 33 5 The same ( large specimen ) , with teeth removed .
2 33 6 Bdellostoma Forsteri , small specimen ( 1| foot long ) ; vertical section of head and throat 3 33 7 The same ( large specimen ) ; last branchial canal of left side , with " ductus oesophago-cutaneus , " and its cartilage 3 17 1 Adult Bdellostoma Forsteri ( 2 feet long ) ; skull , upper view 2 33 2 The same , with base of skull exposed 2 3 3 3 The same ; lower view 2 33 4 The same ; outline , with cranial nerves ; upper view .
2 Thil .
Trans. 18 8 .
MARSIP OBIUOTCH : FISHES .
" West N\#171 ; www\#187 ; i ' \#163 ; 0 ?
iwja .
Phil. Trams .
18 83 .
Plate 9 .
])Y , y2.1-3- To ab-r K.-hj i.hy s.L.c. West-tTe-wryuccn , \amp ; C ?
i#np .
MYXI1STE GLUTINO SA .
JPhzl .
Trains .
188'6 .
Plate 1U .
yi'.'b.b \#163 ; \\gt ; -i9'r , 'pa\lt ; MYXINE -A.1STD PETR .
OMYZ OH .
West 2J\#171 ; wwxx\#187 ; t\gt ; at Cf - Phil. Trans.1883 .
Plate 11 .
---7hP 'X1 A / " V\gt ; \#151 ; " 8 x 10 lO x 10 fKj ? .
J\amp ; gl VVWt yTe-wvtouk \amp ; C u nw t. 1VT"Y"JCIKS GLUTTJI O S.A. .
Phil. Trcuns.18 83 .
Plate , 12 .
b.'hy f \#166 ; olcL itout , vr hubU. .
et tUU .
C ?
u*Lp MYXINE GLUTINO S^V .
Phil. Trans.\S 83 .Plate 13 .
%-'G- , -N\lt ; V- s o f |i .
auL *uxt .
UjtK.cbcUl ' .
MYXI^E fi-UXJT.llSrO S.A .
WftS'fc ]Slewrrux.n- \amp ; C ' Trans .1883 .
14 ?
, jgp Y"'V \#166 ; 'ruMM-~ " -O.W MYXINE JVND EETROMYZON .
~Wksi\gt ; 9c CffTjnft5 .
n.s. Phil. Tra/ ns.18 8 3 .
Plate 15 . ?
dtf ; -yvodt .
' Tzths .
\#169 ; 6- oLels , BDELLOSTOMA .
MYXINE .
ABD I5 IE TRO IvIY EON TV\#171 ; tNewHv*\#187 ; \amp ; Cmp jPhil .
Trans. 1883 .jPlate 16* Phil. Trans. IB B 3 .
Plate 17 .
rue jO .
br * " sp. n , .
7-3 .
BB~t ... Jml ..\lt ; %rl~J'CK^ 'mmmir \gt ; .
mt\ / * ... ... ... ... .
; v"\ ; v l/ Ve-sCNewwwcH ' ^ C ? .
BDELLOSTOMA FORSTEHI .

