]\gt ; Studies .
201 The ion brought about by the addition of sugars may ) attribtlted to a lvithdr of water by the sugar and the consequent increase in the amount of the " " active system as pointed ont onr previous paper .
" " Studies on Enzyme Action : The Effect of ' Poisons ' on the of Decomposition of Peroxide by Haemsse , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Communicated by rofessor F. H. STARLING , F.R.S. eceived June 2 , 190-1 .
was the first to observe that most animal and juices have the property of decomposing peroxidc ) and oxygen , as well as the power of developing a blue colonr in tincture of guaiacum containing a little hydrogen peroxide .
ince these properties belonged to all the enzymes then emnlsin and diastase , Schonbein regarded them as characteristic of enzynles in , and used them in his numerous investigations as tests for the resence of these bodies .
A good many years afterwards Jacobson , working emulsin and eatin , showed the power of these GnZynlcs to talyse hydrogen peroxide could be destroyedwithout ecting slsly the specific ferment action .
A or two ago , Loew lggested that the power of plant and animal juices to decompose hydrogen peroxide is dne to an enzyme of very wide distributior ] , which he has nled catalase .
According to this view , Jacobson 's impure emulsin contained some catalase , which is less resistant against heab than the llsin , and can be rendered inactive without affecting serionsly the other ferment .
Since Schonbein 's time , the properties which blood possesses of decomposing hydrogen peroxide and of giving the guaiactlm have formed the subject of numerous investigations by Schnlidt , S Bergengr Spitzer Cotton , Ville and Moitessier , others , and this is not surprising when we consider the importan of the guaiacum test for the detection of small amounts of blood .
SpitzerSS concluded that the guaiacum reaction and the catalysis * Journ. .
prakt .
Cbemie , ' vol. 89 , p. 334 ( 1863 ) .
' Zeit . .
})hysiol .
Cbemie , ' vol. 16 , p. 340 ( 1892 ) .
, " " Catalase ' U.S. Dept. of Agriculture Repol .
, 1901 .
S Pfluger 's ' chiv , ' vol. 6 , p. 413 ( 1872 ) . .
Dissertation , ' Dorpat , 1888 .
Pfluger 's ' vol. 67 , 1 ) .
616 ( 1897 ) .
' Zeit .
Biologic , ' vol. 6 , p. 467 ( 1870 ) .
Cotton , ' Bull .
Soc. Chim vol. 25 , p. 2 .
' Bull .
Soc. Chim : [ 3 ] , vol. 27 , p. 1003 ( 1902 ) .
SS Dr. G. Senter .
[ Jnne 2 of hydrogen peroxide are due to the same substance , and this has been the generally accepted opinion until very recently .
Schmidti long ago suggested that the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide by is due to the haemoglobin , and though this view had been combated .
by Kobert , Schar , { others , no very definite evidence had been rollght forward on either side .
Last year the authorS succeeded in preparing from defibrinated ! .
ox blood a body which ically decomposes hydrogen peroxid and does not give the guaiacum reaction .
This body , which has so been obtained only in solution , has been named haemase .
In the former it has been shown that haemase rapidly loses its activity when heated in dilute aqueous solution to ; that in moderately dilute hydrogen peroxide solutions haemase undergoes slow oxidation by the peroxide nultaneously with the catalysis of the latter , but that in dilute peroxide solutions the lacter is split up without the catalysor being affected .
It has also been shown that in dilute solution the velocity of the decomposition of the peroxide is , within fairly wide limits , proportional to the haemaso concentration and to the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide .
Preliminary investigation of the effect of other substances on the reaction showed that it is greatly retarded by very small amounts of acids and alkalis and to a much smaller extent by sodium chloride .
As regards the nature of the catalysor in question there seems good reason to regard it as belonging to that rather indefinite class of substances known as enzymes .
In the present state of our no good definition of an enzyme can be given .
We may regard them as substances formed by living cells whioh can be separated from the latter ithout losing their activity , and under whose influenco certain chemical changes are ought about in a cabalytic manner .
They are soluble in water , precipilated by alcohol , destroyed by heating in aqueous solution to or , and their activity is often greatly influenced by small traces of foreign bodies .
In all respecte haemase conforms to tlIe above definition .
haemase ( in aqueous solution at ) is exceedingly stable and the velocity measurements are so accurately reproducible on different .
occasions ( remarkably so for an enzyme action ) , the investigation has been continued with the } ) ) of throwing some light on the of the enzyme , and the present communication contains an account oi the influence of various substances on the rate of reaction .
*Vide Oppenheimer , ' Fonments , ' p. 45 .
mung Aachen , ' 1900 , quoted by Bredig , Fermente , ' Leipzig , 1901 , p. 88 .
' Zeit .
fur Biologie , ' vol. 19 , p. 330 ( lS99 ) .
S 'Zcit .
fur physik .
emie , ' vol. 44 , p. 257 ( 1903 ) .
Sentcr , St .
203 -lIethod the elocit All the experiments mentioned in the present communication were ' carried out in a thermostat at a temperature of ( constant to ) .
Ninety cubic centinletres of the very enzyme solution was placed in each bottle , 10 c.c. of a solution of the substance whose action was : .
to be investigated ( respectively 10 .
of water in the control experiments ) added ; after the lapse of a certain time ( period of incubation ) 100 .
of approximately hydrogen peroxide ( also at ) added , and the mixture shaken .
From time to time .
of the mixture were pipetted out , ruu into sulphuric acid , which stops the action , and titrated with } permanganate .
It may be mentioned that the enzyme solution was so active , pared with the of organic matter present , that no appreciable error ( less than was citused through the reduction of by organic matter .
The hydrogen peroxide used obtained from Merck and was quite pure .
The enzyme solution prepared according to the method give1l in my former paper , and being kept in an ice-box retttined its activity without appreciable change for several days .
Nearly all the nces used in the experiments were obtained from ahlbaum , the others were the purest obtainable London .
The water used for dilution was distilled water freed from carbon dioxide by the of a current of pure air through it for some time .
of cion the order to show clearly the nature of the results obtttined , I give here full details of measurements on the effect of HC1 , and on the reaction-velocity .
Inl order to ecollomise space , only the ' constants\ldquo ; of subsequent experiments will be given .
The value of the constant in the control experiment The numbers mder C give the concentration of the ) at the time dicated , expressed in cubic centimetres of molar The constants in the third column are culated on the assnmptio1l that the reaction-velocity is proportional to the concentration , is , that - where is the concentration at the time .
Integrating , we obtain ) ' where and , are two successive measurements , the interval of time between them .
The effect of hydrochloric acid , sulphuric acid , nitric acid , benzoic acid , succinic acid , and acetic acid , on the rate of reaction has beeIl Dr. G. Senter .
[ June in the Reaction Mixture .
HC1 \mdash ; .
il tvcstigated .
Results for the three acids have been given above ; the following are the resuIts for the other three , with the numbers for HC1 , obtained at the same time , for the sake of ' parison : \mdash ; Table II .
Concentration of acid .
ation of -ions .
Constants .
Acid , hydrochloric , , , benzoic , succinic , / // 10,000 , , acetic , , Control experiment From the tables , it will be that , lvhile HC1 and , which completely dissociated under the conditions of experiment , givo on Action .
200the same retardation , benzoic , succinic , and acetic acids , which ':are only partly dissociated , have less .
effect in equivalent concentration ; when , however , the concentration hydrogen lons is calculated ( see second ) , HC1 , , benzoic acid and succinic ttcid have exactly the same retarding effect , that , the retardation : : to ths hydrogen coltcentration .
Nilric acid is more , and acetic acid less , old ) expected from the hydrogen ions present , and it is , in thess two cases , to suggest that the negative ions exert an infiucnce .
This has been shown to be the case , as will be mentioned more fully later .
hile the Cl and ions exert little ence , potassinm nitrate slows down the action to the same extenl as nitric acid itself .
On the other 1 hand , sodium acetate more influence on the reaction than any other substance that has been tried .
I may here mention that , although from of space only one selies of results has been given , three series of measurements have been carried out at different times with different enzyme preparations , and exactly corresponding results obtained , so that the figures quoted may accepted as Another interesting point about the viour of acids is that the time during the acid remains in contact with the enzyme before the is added no influence on the result ; the equilibrium is ttttained within 5 minutes , and remains unaltered at the end of 2 or 3 hours .
The changc is not a permanent one , since if the acid , aftec an incubation period of 2 hours , be neutralised before the addition of the the action proceeds with its original velocity .
Kahlenberg his assistants have made a systematic investigation of the toxic action of acids on small plan ts and on fishes , with the object of nding whether the electrolytic dissociation theory is capable of ining the results .
They find that the toxic effect is in the first instance proportional to the hydrogcn ion concentration , though there are often secondary effects due to the other ions , and in all probability to undissociated molerules .
Similar results have beeIl obtained with seedlings by Cameron Breazeale .
Fernbaeh and others have made systematic investigations of the effect of acids on enzyme actions .
Fernbach a table containing the amounts of different acids just sufficient bo inhibit the action of invertase on sugar , And from his numl ) , and the dissociation constants of the respective acids given by OstwaId , I have calculated the hydrogen iou of the solutions in question ; the results are given below :\mdash ; $ Kahlenbcrg and , 'Journ .
phys .
, p. ( 1900 ) ; Kablenberg and Mehl , , vol. 5 , p. 113 ) .
' Journ. .
chem vol. , p. 1 .
se , , 1890 , q1loted by Effronl , 'En zymcs , ' nglish ] , 1902 , p. 69 , et seq. The influence of sodium hydroxide upon the reaction has been determined .
It has been found that the velocity is not very appreciably influenced by solutions weaker than normal , but that in stronger solutions a retardation of the velocity is brought about .
The retardation , unlike that used by acids , depends upon the period of incubation , but the change is nob a permanent one , since on neutralisation the original velocity is regained .
Details are given in my former paper .
* Efled Veutral Salts .
Numerous investigations of the influence of neutral salts on enzyme action have been carried out , but little of a general character can be deduced from the results .
solutions have often a slightly accelerating action , which passes into a retardation in more concentrated solutions .
I have investigated the influence of halogens of the alkalis and alkaline earths , of the alkali sulphates , and of sodium acetate and carbonate .
Only the halogen oompounds exert a considerable retardation ; the effects due to the others seem to be more of a secondary nature .
Some typical results are given below:\mdash ; Table chloride , Ammonium bromide , m12000 . .
Sodium c Barium cStrontium chloride , Amnloniumchloride , Calcium oride , Potassium bromide , Sodium Buoride , bromide , . .
Control experiment . . . . . . . .
*Senter , , p. 301 .
Stndies on Action .
207 Owing to the direct oxidising action of upon the iodides , it has been found impossible to complete the series by making measurements with corresponding solutions of these compounds .
This point be again referred to under the experiments dealing with iodine .
From the results given above it is evident that the effect due to the halogen compounds is due to the halogen ion alone , since is quite dependent of the other ion present .
It may be mentioned in this connection that according to Bredig the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide by colloidal platinum is retarded by KC1 , though not appreciably so by other lleutral salts .
The results with sodium fluoride are particularly interesting , it has long been regarded as a poison for micro-organisms , but without effect on enzvmes .
According to Pavy , , it has a htly deleterious action on enzymes , and this is quite borne out by the results given above .
Alkali \mdash ; Experiments were carried out with potassium , sodium , and ammonium sulphates , in concentrations varying from to .
The results are as follows:\mdash ; Table Salt used .
Constant Salt usecl .
tants .
0360 trol salt From the results given it is evident that , while and exert a slight retarding action , in solution has considerable accelerating effect , which practically disappears in solution .
As having a possible connection with this result it may be recalled that , of the three sulphates , only the sodium salt crystallises with water ( 10 molecules ) .
lium an\mdash ; The results are as follows:\mdash ; Table Salt used .
cotlstants .
Salt used .
Constants .
8odium acetate , . .
0 .
Control experiment . . . . . . .
Salt used .
Sodium carbonate , 0 .
\ldquo ; O. 0194 !
riment .
Bredig , ' Anorg .
Fermente , ' p. 84 .
Oppc ) hcimer , , p. 41 .
I Journ. Pbysiology , .
208 Dr. G. Senter .
[ June Quite an appreoiable acceleration is caused by sodium acetate , and amount seems , ouriously enough , to be almost independent of the centration .
It has been found that neither sodium acetate nor sodium sulphate appreciably catalyse hydrogen peroxide in the concentrations employed .
Effect of Alkali Salts- with Oxidising In my former paper , experiments with and are described , nnd it shown that these salts at , even in 1/ 80,000 molar solution , exert a powerful depressing effect on the action , the constants the same time decreasing as if the enzyme were being gradually oxidised .
There seems , however , to be a depressing effect independent of the oxidation since , with the weaker solutions , there is a considerable decrease in the velocity , though the constallts do not appreciably decrease during the action .
This is also evident from the experiment with nitric acid quoted on p. 204 .
xperiments have now been carried out with polassium perchlorate potassium persulphate , an experiment with being made at the time for the of comparison .
Table Salt used .
Constants .
Salt used .
Constants .
Conlrol experiment . . . . . . . . . .
It is interesting to note that the constants do not decrease during the action with potassimn perchlorate and potassium persulphate , so that the enzyme is not being appreciably oxidised ; there is , on the hand , a marked decrease with potassium chlorate , from in the course of 3 hollrs .
The results with potassium chlorate are intsresting since this salt is blood-poison , owing to its power of converting haemoglobin into methaemoglobin .
According to preliminary experiments by Professors Kobert and Schar , potassium chlorate does not greatly rstard the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide by blood ; ihat this view is erroneous is evident from the results here given .
Potassium chlorate is not very poisonon towards the lower organisms .
*Sentel , loc. , p. 304 .
Quoted by Bredig , loc. , pp. Loew , ' Die irkungen , ' p. 17 .
or ? .
209 Eflect of } on the ements have been made with phenylhydrazine aoetate , hydroxylamine hydrochloride , sulphuretted bydrogen , and formaldehyde , the with the two former interesting from their known of combining aldehyde and ketone : drogen.\mdash ; This body proYed to be quite remarkably :poisonous to the action , a solution containing 1/ 2,500,000 gramme-mol .
; reducing the rate to a half .
The poisonous also depends ' upon the period of incubation , the longer the incubation the grcater the retardation .
The constants also inorease considerably during the ction ; .
this phenomenon is very likely due to the gradual oxidation of by the ) The ical resuIts are appended:\mdash ; Table VIII .
Time used and concentration .
of incubation .
Sulphuretted hydrogen , 10 mins .
\ldquo ; , \ldquo ; Without sulphuretted hydrogen \mdash ; It was served by Faraday that plalinum no longer brought about combination in ting gas containing a little Bredig has shown that this gas is remarkably poisonous to the catalysis of by colloidal platinum .
Sulphuretted hydrogen has a slightly poisonous action on the lower organisms , but is a very energetic blood-poison , probably acting on the haemoglobin , which it ohanges into a compound containing sulphur .
\mdash ; This body has a considerably retarding effect , the constants decreasing slightly during the action .
IX .
Salt used .
Constants .
oxylamine hydrochloride , , Without hydroxylaminc Part of the ) ydrochloric acid remains uncoml ) ined and exerts ding action , but this is very small in so solutio1l , nearly the whole retardation is due to the hydroxylaminc .
* Bredig , , p. 6 , p. 56 .
210 Dr. G. Senter .
[ June a ylhydrazinc does not retard the action quite strongly as hydroxylamine ; the constants decrease considerably during the action:\mdash ; Table X. Substance used .
Constants .
Phenylhydrazine acetate , , , As in the former case , the free acid present retards the action , but on ly to a small extent .
Both hydroxylamine and phenylhydrazine are exceedingly poisonoum to the lower organisms , much less so to the higher animals .
They both retard the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide by platinum to a considerabl ' extent .
Very few observations of their effect on enzymes have been made .
\mdash ; As is well known , this substance is very poisonout for the lower organisms , and is now largely used as an antiseptic .
According to Effront , very nlinute amounts slow down hydrolysis of starch by diastase , on the other hand , it has little influence on the activity of rennet .
S From the results gi it it clear that formaldehyde only slightly affects the activity of haemase : Table XI .
Constants .
Formaldehyde , YVithout formaldehyde It may be mentioned that hydrogen peroxide does not appreciably oxidise formaldehyde in the dilution used in these experiments .
Effect of on the Reaction .
xperiments have been carried out with mercuric chloride , ) cyanide .
The two former have an exceedingly toxic effect , while the latter has very little action:\mdash ; able X Salt used . .
Salt used .
Constants .
Control experiment curic salt * Loew , , pp. 39 , et seq. Bredig , , p. 76 .
Effront , ' Enzymce , ' S Oppenheimer , , p. 114 .
Studies on .
211 Mercuric salts are energetic poisons for both higher and rganisms.* Paul and Kronig have shown that the poisonons pction on bacteria diminishes from the chloride through the the cyanide , and it is known that the electrolytic dissocintion decreases in the same order .
Iercuric chloride in the amount of one-millionth ralyses the action of on starch and , according to Brcdig , is ctive poison for the platinum catalysis of drogen peroxide .
From the quantitative measurements given above it is cleitl mercuric chloride is about five times as toxic as ) romide towards the haemase catalysis and at least 20,000 times as toxic as mercnric yanide .
of some other Poisom the Carbon .\mdash ; As is well known , c.arbon monoxide is very poisonous towards the higher animals on account of its propel t of forming a stable compound with the haemoglobin of the ) It was therefore a matter of interest to investigate its effect on the { enzyme-catalysis of hydrogen peroxide , since the enzyme used is got from blood .
In order to get as much of the gas as possible dissolved , measnrcments were carried out at ; the gits was passed throngh dil tion of the enzyme in a bottle for 4 minutes , then , without stopping the current , the hydrogen peroxide was added and the stopper inserted , the bottle being thus filled with an atmosphere of the gas .
It WttS found that the gas exerted no ) poisoning effect ; the constant in the presence of CO was , and in its absencc , an agreement with the limit of experimental error .
Carbon monoxide is not poisonous towards the germination of seeds lnor towards bacteria ; fT according to Buchner , it does not affect the fermentation of sugar by zymase .
It retards the catalysis of ' peroxide by colloidal platinum .
Iodine , as well as ) rominc and chlorinc , are poisonotls } all living matter , his experiments the *Loe ' Dio ' Zeit . .
physik .
Chemic , ' vol. 21 , p. 414 ( 1896 ) .
Effront , loc. , p. 116 .
S Bredig , .
cit. , p. 81 .
UP to the present 1tent to solutions of renric b hydrolysed is not , so the relnve ion }tions of ltnnot be cllculnted , vide Lutllcr , ' Zeit . .
Chcm .
, 'vol .
47 , p. .
, p. 103 .
ikBrcdig , Chemie , ' vol. 37 , p. Locv , p. 16 .
SS Brcdig , , p. 74 : 212 Dr. G. Senter .
[ June platinnm catalysis of hydrogen peroxide , found that the fiti substance , even 1n a tion of 1 gramme-mol .
in 7,000,000 litru , reduces the rate of reaction to half its original value .
( of potassium iodide .
The results Table XIII .
I hSubstance , used .
Iodine dissolved in Iodine , , potassium iodide , Control experiment withont iodine The interesting resuIt is tihns obtained that an aqueous solution of iodine exerts only a very poisonous on the , while a solution in potassium iodide , which contains the iodins in the form oi , ions , is distinctly poiso1lols , though very far behind what folmd for the platinum catalysis .
Experiments carried out with potassium iodide in 1/ 10,000 solution show that the poisonouu effect does not depend npon its presence , since the action was , it nything , accelerated under these conditions .
It was observed , however , thnt the colonr of the iodine solution partly disappeared on treatment with , so that some chemical change had evidently taken place .
Arsenious .\mdash ; This body is deadly poison higher and organisms , but has been found by various investigators to have only a slightly poisonous effect upon enzymes .
This is fully confirmed by the results here given : \mdash ; Table Substance usecl .
Constants .
Without From the total lmber of ) timetres of permanganate used , the amount used up } ) the subtracted .
The oxidation of the hydrogen peroxide is very slow in the dilution here employed , and it that this oxidationl is not in the least accelerated by the simuItancous decomposition of hydrogen peroxide .
of the The mism of the \mdash ; Before discussing geIlerally the resuIts obtained with poisons , the mechanism of * Loew , .
cit. , p. 19 .
Kobert , , Buchncr , ' ' vol. 31 , on Action .
213 jatalysis of hydrogen peroxide by haemase may be briefly considered .
this connection it must , in the first place , be taken into consideration we are dealing with a heterogeneous reaction , slnce the haemase is , all probability , present in the solution in a coJloidalstate .
According our present views , such solutions form a two-phase system , the olloid being in the liquid in a very fine of division .
It has recently been insisted upon , more ularly by Nernst , that we are not entitled to apply the equations governing reaction velocity in homogeneous systems to heterogeneous systems .
According to Nernst there is always equilibrium at the boundary surface between two phases , and the changes which take time are ( 1 ) hemical actions in the two phases , and ( 2 ) lsion of substances to from the boundal'y .
Examples of the first type , which the reaction velocity in one of the is slow compared with the rate of diffusion , are given in the paper quoted ; reactions of the seoond type , in which the velocity of diffusion determines the rate of action , have been experimentally investigated by Brunner .
It may taken as proved that the rate of solution of marble in acids is conditioned by a diffusion process , and the same .
is true of the rate of combination of hydrogen and oxygen in contact platinum surface .
One criterion for the dependence of a reaction velocity upon diffusion is the effect produced by stirring the this shortens diffusion path , and thus increases the speed of reaction .
Nernst also of opinion that the same explanation holds for the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide by colloidal \mdash ; that the actual decomposition is very rapid compared with the diffusion of the peroxide to the surface of the catalysor .
We will now inquire whether the catalysis of peroxide haemase can be represented in a similar way .
Since the of a colloidal solution are in a continual state of motion , we may assnme that would not appreciably affect the reaction velocity .
may imagine that each of colloid has adhering to it a layer of liquid ; that the rate of decomposition of the peroxide by the enzymc is very great , and that the concentratio1l outside the adhering layer is kept constant by the motion of ths colloidal particles .
The rate of decomposition of the peroxide would then be by the of its diffusion through the adhering film , and , since the rate of ditiusion is proportional to the diflerence of concentration on the two sides of the film , a simple explanation would be given of the observed fact that the reaction velocity is proportional to the concentration of the peroxide .
Some support is given to this view by the fact that the * Nernst , ' Zeit .
physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 47 , p. 52(1904 ) .
Brunner , ' .
physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 47 , p. 56 ( 1904 ) .
214 Dr. G. Senter .
[ June temperature coefficient of the haemase catalysis for is , which agrees with that found by Brunner for the velocity of solution benzoic acid in vater , is much smaller than the average for reactions in a homogeneous system .
I have previously shown that while the reaction velocity in dilute solutions is proportional to the hydrogen-peroxide concentration , in stronger solutions deviations occur , which can be summed up saying that the reaction proceeds more rapidly in the relatively more dilute peroxide solutions .
On the diffusion hypothesis this can be simply explained on the assumption that the diffusion process is more disturbed in strong solutions by the oxygen given off from the surface of the particles .
While the above hypothesis affords a simple explanation of all the facts in the haemase catalysis , it by no means follows that it can be extended to enzyme actions in general .
The assumption made is that the reaction at the surface is much quicker than the diffusion concerned , and , while this is so in the dissolving of magnesia by acids , and , in all probability , in the catalysis of hydrogen peroxide byhaemase and by platinum , it may not be so in reactions between enzymes more complicated substances .
As regards the catalysis itself , it may be said with certaiuty that it is not due to the large surface area of the colloid particles acting mechanically on the peroxide , sinco many colloidal solutions have no catalytic whatever .
It my ) due to the formation of chemical compound between the peroxide and the enzyme , which , being unstable , breaks down into water , oxygen , and the enzyme , or the compound may enter into double decomposition with another molecule of the peroxide .
S Two observations which I have made ) contribute something to the ehlcidation of these changes .
As mentioned on p. 212 oxidations are not accelerated during the catalysis , so that * va n't Hoff , ' Vorlesungcn , ' vol. 1 , p. 225 .
Senter , , p. 286 .
erzog ( Zcit .
Chemie , is made to apply Nernst 's diffusion to all enzyme actions .
Without further investigation it is impossible to pronounce deiinite opinion on the matter , Herzog 's -calculations of Hcnri 's scarcely serve to the truth of prcmises .
ing to the of Henri ( ' Lois Generales de l'Action des Diastases , ' Paris , 1903 ) , A. J. ( ' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 81 , p. 39,3 , 1902 ) , others , { to the temperature cocfficienl of enzyme ctions 1 determined by O'Sullivan and ompson Journ. Part ) , and bIuller-Thurgan hiels Wftliche Jahrbuch , , it seems not nnlikely that the relative parts played by diffusion by the actual chemical change in determining the reaction depend upon the conditions of experiment .
S Compare astle and Loevenhart , A .
Ch. vol. 29 , pp. ( 1903 ) .
Studies on Action .
Ilor ictive \ldquo ; oxygen e intermediate peroxides aound t ( has exactly the same initial velocity whether the solutions be carefully { reed from dissolved oxygen by a current of hydrogen , or whether , as usual , a little of the former gas be present .
The A ction of Poisons.\mdash ; The question as to the mechanism of the action of ' ' poisons\ldquo ; on the haemase catalysis of hydrogen peroxide may now be considered .
If the enzyme exists as a colloid in solution several explanations seem possible:\mdash ; ( a ) Part of the enzyme may be rendered inactive by forming a chemical compound with the poison .
( b ) Part of the surface of the particles may become covered thin layer of the poison or one of its decomposition products , thus preventing further action on the peroxide .
( c ) The relation of the particles to the surrounding medium may be altered in various ways ( change of surface tension , alteration of relative difference of potential , \amp ; c. ) through addition of a poison .
Doubtless other explanations may ) gested .
It is also exceedingly probable that all poisons do not act in the same way .
In this connection it may be noted that , according to Kastle and Loevenhart , the retarding effect of poisons on the catalysis of by metals and other inorganic catalysors is due in most cases to formation of an insoluble film ( compound between poiso , and catalysor on the surface of the catalysor .
The action of acids and alkalies on the haemase catalysis is of parti(jular interest , since it has been , mors especially by Hardy , that minute traces of these bodies affect profoundly the relation between the colloidal particles and the surrounding medium .
According to Linder and Picton , S Hardy and others , the effect of aoids in precipitating colloids is proportional to their electrical conductivity , i.e. , to the hydrogen ion concentration , but this is probably not connected with the similar effect on the haemase catalysis because the former action is irreversible , whereas I have shown that the latter is reversible .
It cannot be said that any very satisfactory explanation of the effect of acids , alkalies , and other electrolytes on colloids has yet been given With regard to the reaction under consideration I am inclinsd , in most cases , to favour a chemical explanation of the toxic effect .
Acids , * Or , if formed , their velocity of decomposition , either of themselves or in oontact with hydrogen peroxide , is much greater than the reaction velocity between them and a reducing substance as arsenious oxide .
ompare Bredig , , p. 86 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 66 , p. 110 ( 1899\mdash ; 1900 ) .
S Linder and Picton , ' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 67 , Chemie , citVOL .
' cdig , , pp. 9\mdash ; 22 ; FrcundlichR ' ' Zcit .
216 .
G. Senter .
[ June for example , may form with the enzyme compounds which are towards hydrogen peroxide .
If the affinity between haemase and th acid is small , in other words , if enzyme acts as a veak base , amount combined , and consequently the retardation will be propor .
tional to the strength of the .
We have already seen haemase and most other enzymes arc rendered inactive by small tities of alkali , and that gii their aotivity on the solution being neutralised .
These facts seem to lend some support to suggestion I have already on former occasion , that at leart some enzymes belong to the class of amphoteric substances which under ordinary circumstances , , but in the presence of bases develop acid properties and can combine with acids to form salts .
YVithin the last few years it has been shown that many albuminom substances are amphotcric .
The slight retardation caused by most neutral alkali salts is due , in all probability , to- increased viscosity of the solution .
This cannot apply , however , to the considerable toxic effect of the chlorine and bromine and , since a similar tion of the platinum catalysis has been observed , it may be due to some action between the hydrogen peroxide and halogen salts .
Kastle and Loevenhart regard the retardation of the platinum ysis as to the formation of surface films of the insoluble platinous halides .
The retarding influence exerted on the action by oxidising agente is very remarkable .
It is not due to oxidation of the enzyme in most cases , as is clear from the fact the constants do not decrease during the action in presence of potassinm perchlorate and acid .
On the olher hand , potassium chlorate in exceedingly dilute solution seems to oxidise the enzyme , and since the neutral salt itself has very weak oxidising properties , its activity in this case must be due to the of the peroxide .
That it ; is due to chloric acid set free by the hydrogen peroxide , acting as , is scarcely likely , since the acidic properties of the latter are very weak .
In this connection it is interesting to note that potassium very little effect on ths action , whereas acid a high oxidation potential .
The great retardatio1l caused by some reducing agents , such as Iphuretted hydrogen and hydroxylamine , is also rather difficult to account for .
Bredig suggests that tho poisonous effect of the former on the platinum catalysis is due to the deposition of sulphur on the surface of the platinum , Kastle and Loevenhart regard it as being due to formatio1l of a surface film of platinum sulphide .
Neither of these explanations seems to ) to the effect on the haemase catalysis , since I have observed that the constants increase considerably during , .
, .
87 .
on .
217 action .
It seems much more probable that the renders [ 16 enzyme inactive , perhaps by forming a loose compound with it , hd that the gradual increase of the is to recovery of the hzyme owing to oxidation of the poison .
The toxic action of aercuric salts , and of hydrocyanic acid , seems most simply explicable the theory of of loose between them and the Summary of 1 .
Quantitative measuremenls have been made of the effect of various lbstances on the rate of decomposition of hydrogen ) eroxide by aemase , an enzyme obtained irom blood .
2 .
The probable meohanism of the catalysis in question has been disnssed , and reasons have been given for supposing that what is actnally qeasured is the rate of diffnsion of hydrogen peroxide to the enzyme .
3 .
The ways in which ] " " poisons\ldquo ; may exert their eti.ect on the tion have been disctlssed , easons ve been given for preferring , 1 some cases , a chemical explanation of the observed facts .
4 .
From the results obtained with aclds and alkalis , as well as the 'tlsults of other observels , it has been concluded that at least sonls 'lzymes are amphote ] ic substances , , substances which are aqueous solution but ean combine both with acids and with bases to saIts .
I have much pleasure in thanking Dr. Charles A. Kohn for the cilities he has me for cal.rying on my work .

