XIII .
" On the Identity of the Body in the Atmosphere which decomposes Iodide of Potassium with Ozone .
" By THOMAS ANDREws , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1867 .
It was assumed for many years , chiefly on the authority of Schonbein , that the body in the atmosphere which colours iodide-of-potassium paper is identical with ozone ; but this identity has of late been called in question , and as the subject is one of considerable importance , I submitted it lately to a careful investigation , the results of which I beg to lay briefly before the Society .
The only property of ozone , hitherto recognized as belonging to the body in the atmosphere , is that of setting free the iodine in iodide of potassium ; but as other sulbstances , such as nitric acid and chlorine , which may possibly exist in the atmosphere , have the same property , no certain conclusion could be drawn from this fact alone .
One of the most striking properties of ozone is its power of oxidizing mercury , and few experiments are more striking than that of allowing some bubbles of electrolytic oxygen to play over the surface of one or two pounds of mercury .
The metal instantly loses its lustre , its mobility , and its convexity of surface , and when moved about it adheres in thin mirror-like films to the sides of the containing glass vessel .
The body in the atmosphere acts in the same way upon pure mercury ; but , from the very minute quantity of it which is at any time present , the experiment requires some care in order that the effect may be observed .
On passing a stream of atmospheric air , which gave the usual reactions with test-paper , for some hours over the surface of mercury in a U-tube , the metal was distinctly oxidized at the end at which the air first came into contact with it .
This experiment , however , cannot be considered conclusive , as mercury will tarnish and lose its mobility under the influence of many bodies besides ozone .
It is well known that all ozone reactions disappear when ozone is passed through a tube containing pellets of dry peroxide of manganese , or other body of the same class .
The same thing occurs with the substance supposed to be ozone in the atmosphere .
About 80 litres of atmospheric air were drawn , at a uniform rate , through a tube containing peroxide of manganese , and afterwards , made to play upon very delicate test-paper .
Not the slightest coloration occurred , although the same paper was distinctly affected when 10 litres of the same air , without the interposition of the manganese tube , were passed over it .
But the action of heat furnishes the most uiequivocal proof of the identity of the body in the atmosphere with ozone .
In a former communication ( Phil. Trans. for 1856 , p. 12 ) I showed that ozone , whether obtained by electrolysis or by the action of the electrical brush upon oxygen , is quickly destroyed at the temperature of 237 ?
C. An apparatus s was fitted up , by means of which a stream of atmospheric air could be heated to 260 ?
C. in a globular glass vessel of the capacity of 5 litres .
On leaving this vessel , the air was passed through a U-tube , one metre in length , whose sides were moistened internally with water , while the tube itself was cooled by being immersed in a vessel of cold water .
On passing atmospheric air in a favourable state through this apparatus , at the rate of three litres per minute , the test-paper was distinctly tinged in two or three minutes , provided no heat was applied to the glass globe .
But when the temperature of the air , as it passed through the globe , was maintained at 260 ?
C. , not the slightest action occurred upon the test-paper , however long the current continued to pass .
Similar experiments with an artificial atmosphere of ozone , that is , with the air of a large chamber containing a small quantity of electrolytic ozone , gave precisely the same results .
On the other hand , when small quantities of chlorine or nitric acid vapour , largely diluted with air , were drawn through the same apparatus , the test-paper was equally affected , whether the glass globe was heated or not .
IFrom these experiments I consider myself justified in concluding that the body in the atmosphere , which decomposes iodide of potassium , is identical with ozone .

