\amp ; Scoti\gt ; - Phil. Trans. 1894.B .
Hate , 72 .
Fi.gs.l~~6 , Calamites .
Phil. Trans.1894.B .
73 .
%\#171 ; \#187 ; **** Figs. 7\#151 ; 9 .
Catamites .
Bis .
10\#151 ; 13 , Calamostacliys .
Biimeyana Fig. 15 .
Fig. 18 .
Fig. IF , C alamo staclrys .
Binneyana .
Figs. 15-16 , C.Casheana .
Figs. 17-18 , CalamostacFjs sp. Fig. 19 .
Figs. 19.-22 .
SpiienopTiyllinriplunfoliatum IJhil , Trans.1894 .
B. Fig1 .
23 , SpFenopFyllum insigne .
Fig ' 24 , SpFenopliylkim sp. Figs.25-26 SpFenopFyllum Dawsom Fig. 3 .
fix sc 'M i. cm*---- _ VO fix Fig. 5.P =s#P4 so ?
;\amp ; e'bnl er del .
Figs."H3 , Calamites .
' iScott .
Fhil .
TransXm^ .
7fefe78 .
WHr Fig. 13 .
^*W del .
Fids .
7""14 , Calamites .
Phil. Treats .
1894 .
B. PIm\#163 ; \amp ; 79 .
ftBrebner del .
Figs. 15\#151 ; 20 , Galamites del .
Figs. 21,22 , Calami tea .
Figs. 2 3\#151 ; 26 , .C alamos tacky 's .
Binneyana .
Fig. 32 .
Fig. 33 .
I jBt*W del .
1 .
Rrfs.27\#151 ; 33 , CalamostacFjs Bxnneyana .
Phil. Irons.1894.B .
Plate 'll , sp VW $ W\ i Oft ; \#171 ; S ' til gg jS \#166 ; .w/ a syti : IF Fig. 34 .
Fig , 38 .
p y~ : , ' xi I A mSk % w M a ' MF g# Fig. 35 .
'Sl^ ' k / met .
1**0 tiffin f Fig " .
36 .
m c\#169 ; ' co ~'\amp ; c w NfeJ \#166 ; I \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; b'^ \amp ; jjffrj# ' ^"o\lt ; '*\gt ; 3:b(# ?
: - 0%F ,.f l%)ytf IPliPtQj^ fRW BST ; o fe op a ' rgj H - 'S ?
v.# A ^pi^sgp Fig. 37 .
Fig. 39 .
del .
Figs. ||f3 5 , C alamo stachys Birmeyana .
Fig S. ' 3 6-39 , C. C aslie an a. 18c Scoffs .
Phil. Trans.1894.B .
Plated .
" Yfinur ^ Figs. 40- 44A , Sptenopliylto plunfoliatum Figs. 45,46 , S.insigne .
jH|| son 8c Scott/ .
1894 .
B. 84 .
A \#163 ; sb"w 1,1 .
Figs. 47-52 , Splienopiylliim insigne .
raigftf Ml * .
|p : j MyJfc ' i K fellI g fool JglBpaM |I||1|P Wl1* !
*'jiM pfiiSW^ Mafw ' iflP Fig. 56 .
G.BX .
W a.1 .
Eg.53 , SphenopVlEffil insigns .
Fig 's .
54-58 , S. D aws oxl i. ______ Are \#151 ; Cr , Calainites .
CO CM [ 863 ] further Observations on the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.\#151 ; Part I. Calamites , Calamostachysf and Sphenophyllum .
C. Williamson , LL. DF.R.S .
, Emeritus Professor of Botany in the Owens liege , Manchester , and D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , Honorary Keeper of the drell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received December 30 , 1893 , \#151 ; Read February 8 , 1894 .
[ Plates 72-86 .
] PRELIMINARY NOTE BY W. C. WILLIAMSON .
words in explanation of the origin of this new enquiry may be desirable .
During 3stigations into the organization of the fossil carboniferous plants upon which I sen engaged for more than forty years , I have brought to light a number of ral features different from any discoverable amongst allied plants living at the ; day .
Though morphological truth was the main object of my researches , it possible wholly to exclude thoughts respecting the modes of growth by which structural combinations have been produced .
Many such suggestions are ed through my numerous memoirs ; some of them I believe to be true ; others .
lie open to such doubts as have been expressed by my friend , Graf zu Solms , hers .
morphological enquiries seem to have reached a stage that makes a more die careful examination of these questions of development and growth desirable ; fore specially undertaking this , I saw clearly the extreme importance of doing ombination with some younger colleague whose familiarity with the details of ysiology of living plants was greater than my own .
Under these circumstances !
secured the co-operation of Dr. D. H. Scott , and the present paper embodies suits of our united investigations .
The work has been carried out in the Jodrell atory of the Koyal Gardens , Kew .
W. C. W. I. CALAMITES.* Introduction .
s fossil stems which we are about to consider , and which we include , in conformity inferences to the extensive previous literature of our subject will be found scattered through the memoirs , by W. C. WIlliamson , in the * Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A full summary of our knowledge , up to 1887 , is given by Count Solms-Laubach in his XX3CXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 S 7.2.95 864 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. EL .
SCOTT ON THE with the usage of most English and German palseobotanists , under the generic t of Catamites , are characterized anatomically by the following features : 1 .
The axis is traversed by a well defined central cylinder , consisting of a pith ( which became fistular in all but the smallest specimens ) , and of a ri\gt ; \ distinct , collateral vascular bundles , separated from one another by broad bands of interfascicular tissue , or primary medullary rays ( see Plate 72 , photograig } 2 , and 3 ; Plate 77 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
Each vascular bundle has an intercellular elcc or canal , on its inner side , and from the outer margin of this canal the radial seri8 0 xylem-elements extend .
The bundles run parallel to one another , without anastomosis , through the itei node .
At each node they turn outward , taking an almost horizontal course .
Tli out-going bundles are all situated at the same level , forming a whorl .
There cn 1 no doubt from their position and course that they were leaf-trace bundles , supjvir a whorl of leaves ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and 6 ; Plates 77 and 78 , figs. 6 , 7 , ill As all the bundles of a whorl are alike , and they are equidistant one from anhe there is a strong presumption that each leaf received a single bundle only .
Tis presumption is fully confirmed by all that we know , from other sources , of the ilia of Catamites * The course of the vascular bundles in some cases follows the well-known anj type characteristic of Equisetum , those of successive internodes alternating reglar with each other .
Considerable deviations , however , from this type are met wit , a : will be considered below .
2 .
The central cylinder is surrounded by a cortex , only preserved in comparsivi few specimens ( see Plate 72 , photographs 1 , 2 , 3 ; Plate 77 , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ; Pke \ fig. 12 ; Plate 79 , fig. 18 ) .
In some cases the cortex is but little differentiated , slwi only a few thick-walled elements among the parenchyma , while in others it cisi of two distinct zones , of which the outer is more sclerotic than the inner .
3 .
The branches are placed immediately above the node , each branch Ifeigs situated , in almost all cases , that its centre-line lies midway between two N leaf-traces which pass out at that node ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and , a Plate 80 , fig. 21 ) .
The number of branches developed is very variable , but fceoii be always much less than that of the leaf-traces .
Although placed above the lithe wood of the branch is directly continuous with that of the bundles below it 4 Neither leaves nor roots have been found , so far , in connection wp specimens investigated by us , in which the internal structure is preserved regards the roots , however , we have now some important information rota sources , which we shall consider at a later stage .
" Introduction to Fossil Botany " ( English Translation , 1891 , chapters lo and 14 ) , where the -is very completely cited .
Orly the most necessary references are given m the present pape .
I Se for exainple , Wk.ss , " Steinkohlen-Calamarien , " vol. 2 , p. 26 , plate 1 , EnnantT , Botanique fossile , " vol. 2 , plate 17 .
( itn ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
865 _ above general characters are common to all the stems observed .
The ns however , present great differences among themselves , which are due ( 1 ) to r ' of the branch in question , or to the 'part of the branch from which the in is derived ; ( 2 ) to age ; and .
( 3 ) to specific distinctions .
The differences he first two heads can be readily distinguished from one another with proper It is however , we believe , as a rule , impossible to distinguish between 5S of different orders belonging to the same species and those of different though in special cases , as in the form originally described as , scific distinction is evident.* The same difficulty would exist in the case of urn if we had to depend on isolated fragments of branches for our anatomical dge . . .
ariations in structure , due to the part of the branch from which the section is s as follows :\#151 ; i the size of the pith and consequently of the primary central cylinder ( see Plate 73 , photographs 7 , 8 , and 9 ) ; i the number of the vascular bundles ; i the presence or absence of the canals accompanying the bundles , he size of the pith , in most if not in all cases , is at a minimum at the base of anch , and increases rapidly upwards , until its approximate maximum is d , after which it remains nearly constant .
i like manner the number of vascular bundles is at a minimum at the base of inch , and increases in the ascending direction in successive internodes , until a um is reached , when it remains approximately constant .
he canals accompanying the bundles are absent from the base of the branch , 3 otherwise almost always present in the internodes .
evidence on which these conclusions are founded will be fully given below .
Variations known to be due to the order of the branch are .
( a ) in the size of ht and primary cylinder , and ( 6 ) in the number ol the vascular bundles .
It is \gt ; le that the solid or fistular character of the pith may also vary with the order branch , as well as with age , as is the case in many species of Equisetum .
Differences in the relative width of the bundles and primary medullary rays , in jructure of the rays , in the size of the canals , and in many other points , may ' be of specific value , or be due to the order of the branch , or to mere individual dons .
Differences due to age consist { a ) in the degree of preservation of the pith .
The n.ce of a broad zone of persistent pith within the ring of bundles ( see Plate 72 , Williamson , " Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , Part I. , F " ' P- 488 ; 'Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , ser. 3 , vo , _ _ \#166 ; hese variations are enormous in degree .
The diameter of the pith in the specimen gur 77 , fig. 1 , is at most 0-3 millim. Brongniart describes his Catamites , a medullary cast , as Metro pedem subcequante .
" The ratio is about as 1 : 1000 .
photograph 2 ; Plate 77 , fig. 3 , \amp ; c. ) may , however , characterize certain branch even , perhaps , certain species .
fifll ( b ) In the secondary growth of the vascular cylinder .
In every stein of the t rckYY\i non mr no cjnnnnriQvw f rnnlramrirtf rklonn .
4-1\a __j i .
examined by us secondary thickening took place ; only the very smallest twigs , destitute of it .
So far as the evidence before us shows , there is not the sligb ATT !
A + A A A A4- A / S\S vit U ^ U J \#171 ; J ^ i. _ re fest reason to believe in the existence of any Calamite which did not form a second zone of wood .
Its formation has been observed at every stage .
The radial arram meant of the elements is exceptionally clear as compared with most recent p^ .
x. o \#177 ; - \#151 ; which have secondary growth .
The phloem and cambium are rarely preserved , \gt ; ut as we shall see , they can be demonstrated in favourable cases .
( c ) In the secondary growth of the cortex .
It attained , in some old steig j thickness even greater than that of the wood , and its increase was accompanied V ai extensive development of periderm .
To this subject we'shall return .
There can be no doubt as to the specimens in question forming a perfectly nsan group .
With the exception of the Catamo type , and of , nic latter we have not dealt with in this paper , all the forms examined might evenia\ belonged to a single species , though it is much more probable that several lie species are included .
There is , further , no doubt that the specimens showing structure , with whk v are more particularly concerned at present , belong to the same plants as the ncr scopic specimens long known under the name of Catamites .
The proof tha tl common form of preservation of these fossils represents merely the cast of the the pith , has been sufficiently enforced in previous memoirs.* Specimens , such as \amp ; e the Williamson collection , in which a cast of the pith is still partly enclosed V t well-preserved cylinder of wood , show quite clearly that the furrows on the surfbe the cast correspond to the inner edges of the vascular bundles , while the ridges ct cast fit into the spaces left by the softer tissue of the broad medullary rays .
Medlla casts from the base of branches , of which several are figured , agree perfectly 1J\amp ; 1 form of the pith , as shown in specimens of the same parts , with structure pei-ci preserved ( see Plate 79 , fig. 20 ; Plate 80 , fig. 22 ; Plate 73 , photographs 7,8 , and Incases of doubt the medullary casts can be identified by their having a constricts each node , while the opposite condition is conspicuous where the wood and cortc \#163 ; present .
( Compare the figures of casts in Plate 86 with the photograph 4 , Phjtf f and with " Organization/ ' Part XIV .
, figs. 5 and 6 , 'Phil .
Trans. , 1888 , vol. !
7\gt ; f The cortex presents no superficial ridges and furrows .
We may assume , then , that we are dealing with the histological structure c i same plants which have so long been known under the name of Catamites , of 'hi the medullary casts are the most familiar form of preservation .
The commones t^ * See " Organization , " Part I. , ' Phil. Trans : , ' 1871 , and Part IX .
, * Phil. Trans. , ' 1878 , Plate : \#166 ; also Stub , * " Sir Morphologie der Calamarien , " ' Sitzber .
d. k. Akad .
der Wiss .
z. Wien .
, Math.-n*** Class , ' Bd .
83 , Abth .
1 , Heft .
V. , 1881 .
Solms , ' Fossil Botany , ' p. 301 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
867 se fossils in the English Coal-Measures is that of the so-called Arthropitys , As this genus was only separated from Catamites on account of its secondary wood , which we now knowr to have been common to the whole group , * we shall bhe older generic name .
The question , so keenly discussed since the time of UIART , as to the Cryptogamic or Phanerogamic nature of these remains , seems be definitely decided in favour of the former alternative^ As regards the iv organs , the presumption , derived from the occurrence and character of the , ry formations , seemed at first entirely in favour of Phanerogamic affinities , and lot wonder at the view so long held by Brongniakt and many botanists of his Only a consideration of the whole body of evidence , both from recent and ants , has decisively turned the scale the other way .
ig the Cryptogams the affinities of Calamites have always been sought in the .urhood of the Equisetacese .
In considering the vegetative organs , then , the Lteresting question is whether the primary structure shows a sufficiently close ent with that of Equisetum to establish any presumption of relationship , st obvious resemblances , which attracted the attention of the earlier palseo-bs , have turned out to be fallacious. .
Thus we now know that the supposed twi-like ribbed stem is no ribbed stem at all , but merely a cast of the pith-The external surface of the larger specimens could not possibly have shown :e those of Equisetum , for in the latter genus these ribs represent the course vascular bundles , and these are overlaid in the older Calamites by an immense ' secondary wood and cortex .
J points of vegetative structure on which stress may fairly be laid , for purposes parison with Equisetum , are the following :\#151 ; he arrangement , and relative position of leaves , branches , and adventitious 'he course of the vascular bundles .
'heir orientation , and the order of development of their elements .
.he details of histological structure .
points under the first category are of manifest morphological importance ; the are each , by themselves , of secondary value , and only a strong resemblance in m of such characters could weigh for much in estimating affinities .
Grand'Eury , " Calamariees\#151 ; Arthropitus et Calamodexidron , " ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1889 , vol. 108 , '5 also 'Flore Carbonifere dti Guard , ' 1890 .
e believe that M. Renault is now the only author who still attributes Phanerogamic fructifi-i to some of the Calamariese .
See his " iStude sir le Terrain Houillier de Commentry , ' ' livre 2 , Fossile , ' Part II .
shorter-lived branches no doubt had a comparatively thin secondary zone , and these , in the state , may appear to show superficial markings .
It has already been shown that these markings QP]y due to the ribs of the medullary cast , which have become impressed on the thin carbonaceous to which the external tissues are reduced ( see Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , ' Phil. Trans. , ' P- 495 ) .
Now as regards the general morphology , the simple leaves , arranged in whorl f many members , form an obvious point of resemblance to specimens of Calamites showing structure , we can , indeed , only infer the position the leaves from that of the outgoing vascular bundles ; the macroscopic specif however , leave no doubt as to the facts.* On the other hand , it is quite certain that the leaves were separate , not eoW to form a sheath , as in Equisetum .
Further , the alternation of the leave 5 successive whorls was less constant in Calamites than in the recent genus .
The branches of the stem in Equisetum are alternate with the leaves of the vU in the axil of which they arise .
This agrees substantially with the position dth branches in Calamites ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and 6 , Plate 80 , fig. 21 ) .
l\if relation of the vascular bundles to those of the main stem seems also to agree itb two genera , but this will be considered below .
The insertion of the branches the node in Equisetum is , of course , only apparent .
The branches arise in thtaxi of the whorl , and therefore above it .
Subsequently they become overgrown hth leaf-sheath , and ultimately break through it at its base .
If the leaves of were distinct like those of Calamites , the insertion of the branches above theiod would be equally evident in both genera.t As regards the insertion of the adventitious , we know that in Equtiw they arise from the base of the lateral branches , one to six on each branch , roi the specimens of Calamites showing structure , we have at present no evidences I the insertion of the roots .
There is , however , no doubt , from the evideie i impressions and casts , that the roots arose at the node or immediately above itfro the base of the internode .
Sometimes they were placed in a regular circle , Dm times they are grouped in tufts , and these tufts may arise at the base of a brad It does not seem probable , however , that they had any constant relation t tl branches , such as we find in Equisetum .
So far as our knowledge of the external morphology of the vegetative orgns Calamites extends , we thus find a general agreement with , sufficiento quite consistent with a relationship between the genera , but not by itself concisn ( 1 .
) It has already been mentioned that in the course of the vascular bundb t resemblance to Equisetum , though evident , is incomplete ; the differences const the facts that a bundle may traverse more than one internode , and that the bnd of successive internodes do not constantly alternate with one another ( see Pbe i photograph 5 , and Plate 78 , fig. 11 ) .
* See especially Weiss , " Steinkohlen-Calamarien , " II .
, 1884 , cap. 3 , " Beblatterung der Calai-^ t Cf .
Janczewski , " Recherehes sir le Developpement des Bourgeons dans les Pr\amp ; es .
" Soc. des Sci. Not .
de Cherbourg .
' XX .
, 1876 .
His principal figures are reproduced in the mode* \lt ; books , such as those of Gobel or van Tieghem .
_ }\gt ; _ .
+ Weiss , " Steinkohlen-Calamarien , " II .
, 1884 , cap. 4 , " Wurzeln der Calamiten ; Ln*P Hutton , ' Fossil Flora of Great Britain , ' vol. I , plates 78 and 79 .
INANIMATION OF TlfE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
869 'he arrangement of the vascular bundles in a single regular ring , enclosing a ith-area , agrees well with Equisetum , but equally well with any normal nerm in Dicotyledon .
We shall show in detail below that the canal at the Ige of each bundle represents the disorganized protoxylem , so that in this the agreement with JEquisetum is exact .
We shall further show that in \gt ; le cases there are distinct remains of the phloem to the outside of the wood , there is no doubt as to the bundles being normally collateral , with centrifugal ust as in the recent genus .
i'or the comparison of the minute histological structure , we are practically to the wood , and as only the primary region can be compared , the material is at meagre .
The primary xylem-elements of , the spiral , reticulated ariform tracheae , are on the whole such as we find in and certainly sss closely with those which we find in the corresponding position in other \gt ; f vascular plants .
The distinctive structure of the nodal , as compared with modal xylem , also shows a close agreement in the two genera .
Pew cases the structure of the cortex shows the distinct peripheral strands of hyma , which are frequent in the sub-aerial stems ot .# m up our preliminary anatomical comparison .
Although there is no secondary ing , so far as we know , in any recent Equisetum ( if we except the slight tpa investigated by Mr. Oormack ) !
* , yet the primary structure , on which in amites the secondary zone is superposed , is almost identical in the two genera .
Primary Structure of the Stem .
a. The Internodes .
first subject to be considered in detail is .the primary structure of the stem , .mparatively rare to find specimens in which this primary structure is unaltered .
this is the case the specimens in question are usually , though not always , small with few vascular bundles .
It must not be supposed that these twigs repre-ie earliest stages of the principal branches .
They are probably ramuli of a rder , which in many cases seem never to have undergone any great degree of tarry thickening .
In such small branches the pith is often solid , J just as is the i the ultimate ramuli of some Equiseta , as , for example , E. In other e Williamson , " Organization , " Part XII .
, 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1883 , II .
, Plate 33 , fig. 19 ( C.N. 62 ) .
\#151 ; Reference numbers preceded by the letters C.N. ( \#151 ; Cabinet ) always indicate t e r of the slide or specimen in the ^Tilltamson collection .
On a Cambial Development in Equisetum4 Annals of Botany , vol. 7 , 1893 .
ee Williamson , " Organization , " Part .
IX .
, Plate 19 , figs. 8 and 9 ( C.N. 1 and 2 ) .
See also our S4 I ?
in Plate 77 , though here the pith is not quite complete .
870 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE cases , however , the pith of these minute twigs is hollow.* It is impossible to \lt ; j that in most cases , and apparently in all the larger branches , it soon became in the living plant .
This is shown both by the frequency and regularity of the q* of the medullary cavity , and by the very sharp limit of the outer persistent zor^ the pith ( see Plate 72 , photographs 2 and 3 , and Plate 77 , fig. 3 ) .
In a few cases specimens are preserved which evidently represent the condition of branches of considerable size .
The most striking of these isV Calamopitus described and figured in 1871.+ Here there were about eighty vastly bundles , and though there had been some secondary formation of wood , its amou-^ about a dozen layers\#151 ; is little in comparison with the dimensions of the \#163 ; \#187 ; nj Other sections show from , fifteen to twenty-one vascular bundles , with little \#171 ; a# secondary tissue .
Early stages of development of the more considerable brands are , however , much rarer than mere twigs , as we should expect .
In the arrangement of the vascular bundles , as seen in transverse section , weim the same variations as among species of at the present day .
Whilett most common type is one with the bundles rather near together , the priar medullary ray having a width scarcely greater than that of the bundle itsel wi sometimes find the bundles much more scattered , and separated from one anotb* b rays more than twice their own width 4 Similar differences are found , if , for example , we compare Equisetum E. limosum .
In the earliest stages observed , the vascular bundles , so far as their praai structure is concerned , appear to be already fully formed .
In all cases the fascul : canal is open and well defined , S and in all cases , too , there is a strand of thick-mlb elements bordering on the outer side of the canal ( see Plate 72 , photograph 1 , Pla31 figs. 1 and 2 ) .
It is not always easy , in a strictly transverse section of a very pui stem , to see which elements represent the xylem .
When , however , the section is th oblique , so that the markings on the lateral walls of the elements can be distingu he it becomes evident that the thick-walled cells on the outer side of each carl a tracheae , and constitute the xylem-groups ( see Plate 77 , fig. 4 ) .
The most important question relating to the vascular bundle in its primary coniti\lt ; concerns the nature of the canal which is always present on its inner margin .
1 presence of these canals , the internodal canals of previous memoirs , gives to the Mj verse sections an extraordinary resemblance in habit to corresponding sectional i * * * S * Plate 72 , photograph 1 , and Plate 77 , fig. 2 ; also Williamson , loc cit. , fig. 10 .
f Williamson , " Organization , ' ' Part I. , p. 488 , Plate 25 , figs. 19 , 20 , \amp ; c. J See Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , figs. 9 , 14 , 15 , 20 , 26 .
Oar own figures are aL former type .
/ ^lj .
J S We leave out of consideration some exceptional cases in which the canal is filled a parenchymatous tissue .
These will be discussed subsequently ; here it need only be said that instances the filling of the canal seems to have taken place long after its formation .
Si ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
871 um Is this resemblance accidental , or are the two structures really homo-If the latter alternative be true , then the canal , in Calamites as in Equisetum , ^present a disorganized strand of protoxylem\#151 ; the first-formed part of the p collateral bundle .
It is impossible to follow the development in the as already stated , the youngest stages preserved have their canals fully ed All that we can expect is to find recognizable remains of the elements )riginally filled the cavity ; if these elements have the character of primitive * then the homology with the carinal canals of Equisetum may be taken as bed .
, ily , there is a long series of sections in the Williamson collection which serve his question completely at rest .
very well-preserved transverse section it is common , or in fact the rule , to find rings of about the diameter of a small trachea , within the canal .
The resem-these annular fragments to the remains of tracheae always seen in the carinal of Equisetum has long attracted our attention .
The same point has been d and figured by Mr. Cormack , # who , we believe , was the first to publish the terpretation .
Occasionally , where the canal is small , these rings may collec-\gt ; ccupy the greater part of its area.t In some cases , also , we can trace a transi-)m the isolated rings in the canal itself , to the loosely arranged and partly nized tracheae which abut on its outer margin.^ Even in transverse sections iments in the canal sometimes lie obliquely ; in these cases we can see that the ire placed one above another , as in an annular trachea , while sometimes we rtions of a spiral or a reticulated cell-wall .
That we have really to do with the s of tracheae is evident .
The tracheal remnants are most frequent towards the dge , or at the sides of the canal .
For reasons which will appear immediately , re less commonly met with at its inner edge .
Transverse sections , however , rely afford by themselves conclusive evidence as to the nature of the elements aed in the canal .
It is only when we examine a decidedly oblique section of a reserved specimen that all doubt is removed .
Such a preparation is represented te 77 , fig. 4 .
The specimen is a corticated one , but the cortex has not been in the figure .
Here the section is sufficiently transverse to show clearly the \gt ; n of the canals , and at the same time sufficiently oblique to leave no doubt as i character of the elements within them .
Annular , spiral , or laxly reticulated -8e are evident in every canal , and sometimes extend to its inner margin .
The lal transition from these primitive tracheae to the more scalariform elements fis the exterior can be clearly traced .
Such a section is convincing by itself but Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , loc. cit. , 1893 .
8 m C.N. 19 .
We Lave thought it convenient , for the benefit of future investigators , occa-ly to refer to the cabinet number of specimens in the Williamson collection other than those d. U in C.N. 10 , 1007 , \amp ; c. beccxciv.\#151 ; B. 5 T 872 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THl the study of accurately longitudinal sections is necessary in order to comply argument .
Tangential sections passing through the primary wood of the bundles are of value , as in them the position of the canals is clearly shown , and there can doubt that we are really examining the fascicular passages , and not any lacunae .
Such a section is represented in Plate 80 , fig. 21 .
The part figured ton ' , on two canals , and shows the partly disorganized protoxylem and primary xylem of bundles.# In all such preparations , when sufficiently well preserved , remains of K primitive-tracheae are found in the canals and can be recognized at once , though v\gt ; r ' or less broken up , by their annular , spiral , or reticulated thickenings .
By cafy comparison of sections in somewhat different planes it is easy to prove that the her most tracheae of the solid xylem-strand are themselves somewhat disorganized^ disruption becoming much greater towards the interior , where the canal itsr'i , reached .
Having become familiar with the appearances presented in oblique and tangetia sections , the canals can easily be recognized with certainty in radial view.t g\#174 ; Plate 77 , fig. 5 ; Plate 78 , fig. 10 .
) Where remains of tracheae are found quite ath inner margin of the canal , they are usually of the annular type , with remote ngi Many of the elements are broken up in such a way that a series of several consectiv lings is left in position ; then there is a gap , then another short series of ringsan so on .
The nearer the tracheae are to the inner side of the canal , the longer are t !
gaps , and the shorter the series of persistent rings .
( See Plate 77 , fig. 5 .
) Evicotl here , as in JEquisetum , the development of the primary xylem is centrifugal ti innermost elements have been differentiated earliest , and have consequently ride gone the greatest amount of disruption during the extension of the internode ] many of the tracheae the rings are connected here and there to form short spills \lt ; reticulations .
In some cases , a radial section passes through a canal so as to show its termiiti at a node .
Here it is clear that the protoxylem in the internodal canal is contiuo with the innermost elements of the nodal xylem .
This point is illustrated in Pla11 fig. 10 .
In no case , except where the preservation is bad , has a canal been examiwl longitudinal section , without traces , at least , of the protoxylem being discovered From these observations we conclude : that the internodal canals of Colter represent the earliest-formed xylem of the primary vascular bundles ; that tt primitive wood became disorganized and ruptured , owing to the longitudins at transverse extension of the growing internode ; and that the formation of the-ai was due to a tearing of the tissue caused by the presence of a strand of mextesu lignified elements among the actively-growing parenchymatous cells .
* Other tangential sections showing the same facts are C.N. 24 , 37 , 38 , 49 , 91,130* , and 1987 .
t Especially good radial sections for this purpose will he found in C.N. 20 , 20a , 21 , 22 , 48 .
an 1 organization of the fossil plants of THE COAL-MEASURES .
873 3t all the evidence goes to show that the inter nodal canals of Catamites are 1 in nature and origin* as well as in position , with the carinal passages of um .
The demonstration of this homology is a considerable step towards tiing1 the essential agreement between the stem of a Calamite and that of an / ill now go on to consider the structure of the remainder of the primary wood , hose xylem-elements which lie on the outer side of the canal .
Here we often ifficulty in distinguishing between primary and secondary xylem .
In trans-ctions the regular radial series can often be traced inwards , as far as the canal , l other cases , the elements nearest to the latter are irregularly placed .
Where issue in question is radially arranged , such sections do not enable us to draw !
between primary and secondary wood .
The same difficulty exists in many \gt ; lants with an early development of secondary tissue .
itudinal sections , however , especially those in the radial plane , show us the s which are characteristic of the primary xylem .
The tracheae just outside il are either densely spiral , or reticulated .
Spirals* capable of unrolling seem occur in the protoxylem of the canal itself .
Scalariform tracheae come next , or emselves adjoin the canal .
( See Plate 77 , fig. 5 ; Plate 78 , figs. 7 and 10 .
) its are bordered , as in similar elements of recent plants .
This is shown in on Plate 78 , which is taken from a tangential section passing so near the pith i regard it as showing the structure of the primary wood .
Where one of the !
is in contact with a parenchymatous cell , the pits are only bordered towards chese , just as in so many recent plants .
Short parenchymatous cells are ed here and there among the tracheae .
The latter seem to be tracheides , but histological details will be more conveniently considered when we come to the \#187 ; ry wood .
sections of the very young stems afford little information as to the phloem , s in no case preserved in such specimens .
There is , however , no doubt that idles were collateral .
In all the corticated specimens there is a gap between and cortex , which is only obliterated where the latter has evidently been 1 in upon the former .
( See the various transverse sections shown on Plates 72 , 1 78 .
) In this gap , disorganized carbonaceous matter , sometimes showing signs ular structure , is present .
In very early stages ( see Plate 77 , fig* 2 ) the scicular tissue is sometimes continuous from pith to cortex , but more usually terrupted by a disorganized layer , which presumably represents the delicate die tissue from which the interfascicular cambium would have arisen , preparation which shows the most satisfactory remains of the phloem , is one diieh photograph 3 , on Plate 72 , and figs. 12 , 13 , and 14 , on Plate 78 are taken . !
group shown in fig. 13 the whole tissue , though much crushed , is preserved ter the above was written , Count Solms-Laubach very kindly lent us some beautiful sections of a te from Halifax , which afforded additional evidence of the facts just stated .
from cambium to cortex .
Similar groups can be seen at several points of the sect and the preservation is sufficiently good to show that the phloem was forme ' greater abundance opposite the primary bundles than in the interfascicular regft8 The regular brick-sliaped cells seen in fig. 14 , are either cambium , or at least i/ vatives of the cambium , which have retained their original form .
This specimj i one which already has a broad zone of secondary wood , about twenty-five ce j radial thickness .
The external limit of the vascular cylinder is always quite sharp .
This is[Uf however , to the almost constant presence of disorganized tissue on the boundary^ not to the differentiation of any evident limiting pericycle .
As to the preset \lt ; such a layer we have very little direct evidence .
In the rare cases where the pioe is preserved , we sometimes find one or more layers of larger , thin-walled cells 5 j periphery ( see fig. 13 ) ; these may have belonged to the pericycle .
As regards the structure of the primary \#166 ; we find considerable vaiiioi among the comparatively few corticated specimens which are preserved .
11 ] smaller twigs there is but little differentiation .
The whole thickness of the corx made up of parenchyma , in which a few elements with thicker walls are scaen ( See Plate 72 , photograph 1 ; Plate 77 , figs. 1 and 2 ) .
Some of the cells have espeia abundant carbonaceous contents , and may possibly represent secretory sacs .
In other branches , of somewhat greater diameter , a more differentiated com present , consisting of an inner and an outer zone , of distinct structure .
( See Pise photographs 2 and 3 ; Plate 77 , fig. 3 ; Plate 78 , fig. 12 .
) In all these cases thorn zone is characterized by larger cells , with thinner walls , than those ot theou region .
In the specimen illustrated in photograph 3 , and fig. 12 , in whh cortex is remarkably well preserved , the outer zone is itself differentiated , ii \#174 ; becoming smaller and more sclerotic towards the periphery .
The supposed seiet sacs may occur in any parenchymatous part of the cortex .
We find , howevi , indication of intercellular secretory canals .
In a third type , already referred to , the outer cortex has sharply defined , ed shaped bands of sclerenchyma , alternating with thin-walled tissue .
( See Willdk " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 33 , fig. 19 , from C.N. 62 .
) The more complex cortex seems to be characteristic of the somewhat If branches ; the number of corticated specimens is , however , too small to adnAij safe generalization .
fly| A definite endodermis at the inner margin of the cortex has not been y ' with certaintv .
In several preparations however , the innermost cortical layer w preserved , consists of regular , thin-walled cells , fairly distinct from the restoi tissue .
The ab\lt ; in tern ode .
e description sums up what we know of the primary structure : We have next to consider the modifications of structure present## ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
875 and in connection with this subject to examine , more fully than we have yet he longitudinal course of the vascular bundles .
b The Course of the Vascular Bundles and the Structure of the Nodes .
\gt ; nsidering the question'of the longitudinal course of the vascular bundles , it is jly necessary to start from specimens in which we know for certain which is 3er and which the lower end .
A specimen for which the cabinet is indebted to ILD affords this evidence in a very convincing manner .
The branch in ques-s a pith which tapers rapdily at one end ; a series of eight transverse sections it from this part , three of which are shown in the photographs 7 , 8 , and 9 , on ^3 .
We shall return to these sections later ; here we need only point out that se of the branch is the end at which the pith has its minimum diameter , bis is so has long been proved : it is sufficient to refer to our figures , Plate 79 , and Plate 80 , fig. 22 ; to the figures 27 and 30 in Part IX .
of Williamson 's \gt ; f Memoirs in the * Philosophical Transactions , ' 1878 , Part II .
; and to Plates 2 , fcc .
, in Weiss 's ' Steinkohlen-Calamarien , ' Part II .
From the upper part of ild 's specimen a longitudinal section has been cut ( C.N. 1937 ) , on which the ind lower ends are marked .
A part of the section is approximately tangential , tows the course of the bundles with perfect clearness , so that here we have the l evidence in an unmistakeable form .
The same section shows further that the branches were inserted immediately above the node .
W e can , therefore , use ct as a means of orientation in other cases ; in all sections which show branches ow that the adjoining node is below the branch , and thus the top and bottom of tecimen are determined .
Another useful clue is afforded by the fact that the ng foliar bundle is generally situated in the median line of the bundle running it from beloWywhile this is seldom the case with the bundles above the node , ter indication which can sometimes be made use of is the fact that the xylem e stem-bundles is directly continuous with that of the outgoing leaf-ti ace , ^ below only .
On the upper side the tracheae overarch the leaf-trace bundle , re generally separated from its xylem-elements by some parenchymatous tissue .
Plate 78 , fig. 8 .
) These latter indications ( to which others might be added ) are [ \#166 ; vice where there are no branches to afford a more certain guide .
WFen we once become familiar with the structure of specimens in which the direction js n , there is seldom any difficulty in determining the position of apex and base in 5ase where we have a tangential section through the wood .
Mr. Wild 's specimen , and in some others , the course of the bundles is essentially of Equisetum .
If we trace any bundle from below upwards , we find that at the Phis indication , however , can only be trusted where the tangential section passes very near to the The width of each woody wedge increases towards the exterior , and this increase is not always metrical with , reference to the leaf-trace bundles .
node it bends out in a horizontal direction , forming the foliar bundle , which is theref cut transversely in a tangential section .
At this point branch-bundles are givenf to the right and left , which unite with the corresponding branches of the neighb ot ing strands , and thus constitute the bundles of the next internode above He therefore , we have a regular alternation in successive internodes , and each leaf-tr !
extends through one internode only .
This simple arrangement is , however , by r means constant .
Thus , we often find the bundles of adjacent internodes lying nee in the same straight line ; the forks of a bundle at the node curve round the outgo leaf-trace , and unite on its opposite side ( see one of the bundles in photograph 5 Plate 72 ) .
This may occur in the same specimen which in other parts shows regay alternation.# In other cases , the bundles at the node are about twice as numerous as the ti going foliar bundles\#151 ; or , in other words , only about every alternate bundle passesut at a given node .
( See Plate 78 , fig. 11 , ) Here each bundle must pass through internodes , instead of one , before joining on to the trace of another leaf .
In allib tangential sections , including those of Ca , similar variations occur.t We may sum up the facts considered as follows:\#151 ; The bundle-system of Calmte , bears a general resemblance to that of A single leaf-trace entersbi stem from each leaf , and passes vertically downwards to the next node .
Inh simplest cases the bundle here forks , its two branches attaching themselves to the aser nating bundles which enter the stem at this node . .
In other cases both the irk attach themselves to the same bundle , so that , in this case , there is no regia alternation .
In other cases , again , the bundle runs past one node without forkip and ultimately forms a junction with the traces of the second node below its staring point .
These variations may all occur in the same specimen .
The xylem at the od usually forms a continuous ring , for , where the regular dichotomous forks okb bundles are absent , their place is usually taken by anastomoses .
Occasionally , m ever , the ring is interrupted .
( See photograph 5 , on Plate 72 .
) The nodal xylem , the commissural ring of primary wood , composed oft !
forks and amastomosing branches of the bundles , differs considerably from the pri ai xylem of the internode .
In the first place , the former is much greater in anui than the latter .
The nodal wood projects conspicuously into the pith , formin ' tl well-known constriction , so familiar in the medullary casts .
It is also somel1 prominent on the outer side , so that the secondary tracheae deposited upon i\#171 ; arched outward at the node , as has often been described in former memoirs.^ Plate 72 , photograph 4 ; Plate 78 , figs. 7 and 10 .
) It may , indeed , be quest whether this mass of wood at the node is properly to be regarded as altog b * As in C.N. 20 , A and B , 24 , \amp ; c. t See Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 26 , fig. 25 , \amp ; c. In these figures m indiijp foliar bundle .
+ See Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , p. 483 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
877 7 or as mainly secondary .
No sharp line can be drawn between the short and lat irregularly arranged tracheae of the nodal wood , and the longer elements ^finite radial seriation , which the cambium has added on their outer side .
We however , to regard the short-celled wood of the node as primary , and that for tsons : ( 1 ) in very favourable preparations ( see , for example , Plate 78 , fig. 10 ) that the nodal wood is continuous with the primary wood of the adjoining ie ; ( 2 ) in recent Equisetaan exactly similar mass of wood is developed at the m we have seen especially well in preparations of E. Additional ; e in favour of the primary nature of the nodal xylem is afforded by the y of the axis of the strobilus in the Calamitean fructification described in the s memoir.+ Here the tissue in question is fully formed in an organ which is - secondary thickening .
At the node the tracheae are relatively short , and more or less oblique position with reference to both the radial and tangential They may even be nearly horizontal , especially in the neighbourhood of the g foliar bundle .
jell-walls of the nodal tracheae are often reticulated or pitted , while those of the t elongated tracheae of the internode are scalariform .
Sometimes this difference conspicuous .
Some of the pith-cells bordering on the wood of the node are tspicuously pitted .
jgards the mode of exit of the foliar bundles we already know that they bend ostataright angle with the axis ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and 6 ; Plate 77 , Plate 78 , figs. 7 and 8 ) .
Our knowledge of their structure is limited to their for we have no specimens to show the leaf-trace bundles passing through the where alone their phloem could be shown .
Their tracheae often have a typical :hickening ; sometimes their walls are reticulated or scalariform ( figs. 6 and 7 ) .
i-re accompanied on their outward course by some parenchymatous elements , jady mentioned , the xylem of the foliar-bundle is continuous with the proto-of the stem-bundle which forms its downward prolongation .
evident that during the formation of secondary wood the elements of the foliar-must have been subject to tension and consequent rupture .
In spite of this in be traced for a long distance through the wood of old stems , especially in itial sections , though they become very hard to find in the outer layers .
It is Le that elements may have been added to them for some time , by the cambium .
J trt from the irregularities of distribution already sufficiently dwelt upon , we may at the structure and arrangement of the primary vascular bundles in .Catamites it an agreement with those of Equisetum , which could scarcely be closer than it is .
1 have for the present left the lateral branches out of account , although they ' .
Oormack regards the nodal wood of Equisetum as being itself partly secondary .
See his paper cited .
We do not think this view will hold good for the whole genus .
ILliamson5 " Organization , " Part XIV .
, 6 Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 179 , B. , 1888 , Plate 10 , fig. 5 .
f- Strasburger , c Histologische Beitrage , ' vol. 3 , p. 121 .
878 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE obviously formed part of the primary structure .
All the preparations which we hash owing the insertion of branches , are sections of comparatively advanced stems , which the secondary growth in thickness has already made considerable progre Hence the structure of the branch-bases is much complicated , owing to chan^ connected with the formation of secondary wood , and until the latter has hr , studied in detail , the phenomena presented by the branches cannot be understood .
The Secondary Tissues .
So far as the first origin of the secondary tissues is concerned , the type of deveip-ment in Catamites always corresponds to the simplest of the various modificatns with which we are acquainted in recent Dicotyledons and Gymnosperms.* We be on 1 y to distinguish between and vTite'efaseiciitcLi tissue , the former induing all the tissue developed within the limits of each primary bundle , while the lfe arises by the division of cells belonging to the primary medullary rays .
In no cjs i there any preliminary formation of intermediate cauline strands , as so frequrtl happens among Dicotyledons .
The secondary thickening of , in fac g far as concerns its earlier stages , is of diagrammatic simplicity ( see Plate 72 , pbtc graphs 1 , 2 , and 3 ; Plate 77 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
As soon , however , as the zone of secondary tissue begins to attain any considob thickness , variations make their appearance , depending chiefly on the degree m the fascicular and interfascicular strands remain distinct in the secondary regiomr other words , on the part played by the principal medullary rayst during secoia growth . . .
Among the specimens examined by us we find four distinct types as regard ti point .
These distinctions are , of course , purely anatomical , and may have httlor systematic value .
We may group the various forms as follows A. Principal rays remain parenchymatous throughout the whole thickness !
1 secondary wood .
As sub-divisions of this type we have : A 1 .
The ray maintains about the same thickness throughou . .
A 2 .
It becomes narrowed towards the exterior by the gr^B gential growth of the fascicular wood .
B. The principal rays disappear , as such , towards the exterior , owing ' formation of interfascicular wood .
* See Ds ' Comparative ^ W + We propose to limit the term primary ray to the trnly prim y .
j , is prolonged into the secondary tissues by the cambium , we spea o * a , orfg secondary ray is applied , as usual , to those intermediate rays , wluch are entire y 55* fe I ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
879 As sub-types we have : B I. The change takes place suddenly , the interfascicular wood at once extending across the whole width of the ray .
B 2 .
It takes place gradually , the ray becoming narrowed and subdivided by the formation of new strands of tracheae , both at the sides , and in the middle of the ray .
mb-type A 1 is exceptional among our specimens .
We have examined stems# x\gt ; d about eighteen elements in radial section , in which the rays are certainly ymatous throughout and do not diminish in thickness .
Tangential sections type of stemt leave no doubt of the purely parenchymatous structure of the d rays .
In no case , however , is the stem of any considerable age , so we be certain that the condition is anything more than a transitory one , and it is ossible that at a later stage interfascicular wood might have been formed , peculiar form described in former memoirs under the name of Calamopitus , \ her come under this head or under B 1 .
Here the interfascicular tissue does ?
ear to contain true tracheides , but the elements are very prosenchymatous , so Le character of the tissue is totally different from that of ordinary parenchy-rays .
The prosenchymatous ray-cells of have no visible pits on alls , and cannot well be classed as tracheides ; they differ from the tracheides yood of the same plant in shape and size , for the ray-cells are somewhat shorter jidedly broader .
In tangential sections , small parenchymatous secondary rays , nes only two cells in height , are seen between the prosenchymatous elements nterfascicular tissue , like those between the tracheides of the fascicular wood .
S lole structure shows a decided approach to that of Brongr .
, of we have examined some beautiful sections cut from a specimen found in the n of Chemnitz , and kindly presented to the collection by Count Solms-ch .
Calamodendron , however , is not known to occur in the English coal-*es , and we have not included it in the present paper .
think the genus Calamopitus should be retained .
Besides the peculiar ire of its principal medullary rays it is characterized by the predominance of ated elements in its wood , by the characteristic arch-like form of the cornmis-lundles at the node ( as seen in tangential section ) , and by the very large and ie " infranodal canals .
" Further information from additional specimens is er much needed .
\gt ; sub-type A 2 is a very unimportant one , and has only been observed in two imall Calamitean stems , with wood not exceeding seventeen elements in radial 9-\gt ; C.N. 13 and C.N. 18 .
9- , C.N. 33 .
U.LUMBON , ' Mem Lit. ' and ' Phil. Soc. , ' Manchester , ser. 3 , vol. 4 , 1869 .
" Organization , " Part L , 8 in C.N. 54 , ccoxciv.\#151 ; B. 5 u thickness.* Here the principal rays narrow out rapidly towards the exterior marginal series of the ray dying out altogether , while the more median rows bee attenuated .
These changes appear to be due to the vigorous tangential growtU* the elements of secondary fascicular xylem ; there is no formation of interfaacic- .
tracheides , the ray being wholly parenchymatous throughout .
The great majority of .
the specimens investigated belong to the type B , with i^r .
fascicular wood .
In some cases ( sub-type B 1 ) the principal rays come almost once to a sudden end ; little or no secondary interfascicular parenchyma is fored .
and the interfascicular wood immediately assumes , so far as the transverse se|or shows , the same structure as the fascicular wood , appearing to consist of idia strands of tracheides , with narrow secondary rays , usually only one cell in breiti between them.t This case , however , though frequent , is exceptional .
In the great inajori- \lt ; our English specimens the principal rays narrow gradually towards the exterio th interpolation of interfascicular series of tracheides taking place step by step . ?
hii the prevalent case ( sub-type B 2 , in the arrangement adopted ) , is the one whit * have been able to study most in detail .
It will therefore be best to base our derij tion on stems of this variety ( see Plate 72 , photographs 2 and 3 , Plate 77 , fig. jj .
With the exception of Calamopitus , all our English specimens would proab fall under Goppert 's genus Arthropitys , which is simply a synonym of as we propose to limit that genus .
The forms which we are about to consider ay ] taken as the type of Catamites in the above sense .
Count Solms-Laubac h pointed out the urgent need for further investigation of the structure of the wod Calamariese .
S So far as the typically Calamitean structure is concerned we are m in a position to supply fairly complete information , the preservation of many l t specimens from the English ..coal-fields being so perfect that the structure .n studied nearly as well as in a recent wood .
The earliest stages of secondary growth scarcely need any further desert In fig. 1 , on Plate 77 , we have a transverse section of a stem , in which the ver tangential divisions have taken place in the interfascicular tissue , while tb vi definite radial seriation of the xylem of the bundles indicates that here also \#174 ; \gt ; activity has begun .
This is in a twig about 7 millim. in diameter the .
vet observed .
Another specimen , two sections of which are shown in p otqgipi on Plate 72 , and in fig. 2 , on Plate 77 , though of larger size , shows scarcely a any addition to the primary structure .
In the bundles themselves there wi f * * * S * SW " in S'me * Steinkohlen-Cfttnar vl\l BtrnTS .
15 ^6,17 on ?
secti'on ?
n 118* , ** \#171 ; ood \gt ; ong\#151 ; this form are still required .
lurju .
mo own ---\#151 ; \#171 ; na See also Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , figs. 9 , 14 , 16 , , S ' Fossil Botany , ' English translation , p. 298 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
881 o definite interval between the primary and secondary tissue-formation , hence ivenient to take the interfascicular divisions as marking the commencement of ry Growth .
In fig. 2 then , we have a stage immediately before , and in fig. 1 , immediately after the beginning of cambial increase .
We can scarcely expect he starting-point more exactly than this .
ascribing the secondary tissues we will begin with the fascicular wood .
The bs are arranged with remarkable regularity in radial series .
Passing from within Is , the number of the series gradually increases , by the occasional duplication tv , but the regularity of the tissue is always maintained .
\gt ; od transverse sections we can easily see that the wood consists of two kinds ents ; the majority of the radial series are composed of relatively large elements , ither thick walls , while other rows , between the former , consist of narrower rith thinner walls ( see Plate 72 .
photograph 3 ; Plate 77 , fig. 3 ; Plate 78 , \amp ; c. ) .
The comparison of tangential and radial sections show that the former bs are tracheae , the latter constitute small secondary medullary rays ( see 2 , photograph 6 , also Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 23 , fig. 5 ; L , Plate 20 , fig. 16 ) .
As we advance , from within , outwards , we find that the ' of these secondary rays increases , new ones making their appearance sue-ly , just as happens in the secondary wood of a Gymnosperm or a Dicotyledon , ften the secondary rays are one cell only in breadth , frequently they are two oad , sometimes more .
The radial diameter of their cells is equal to , or some-greater than that of the tracheae ; their tangential diameter is much less , ight of the ray-cells is generally their greatest dimension , so that they belong " upright " type of de Bary.^ In other cases , however , the ray-cells are imately square , as seen in radial section , and the two kinds of elements may n the same ray .
Uniseriate rays ( only one cell in height ) are very common ; )rm , as appearing in a tangential section , is lenticular .
proportion of tracheae to secondary rays varies in different specimens ; the il series , however , are always the more numerous .
.egards the nature of the tracheae , the most important question which we have id , is whether they are true vessels or tracheides .
These elements are of very erable length , and have very oblique terminal walls , inclined to the radial plane acute angle ( see figs. 16 and 17 , on Plate 79 ) .
It is not an easy matter to ire their length , as the whole trachea is not often included in the plane of section , ' is only in the best-preserved specimens that it is even possible to determine " ier this is the case or not .
We have , however , succeeded in making some irements .
In a tangential preparation ( C.N. 20 B , from part of which fig. 8 on 78 was drawn ) , five tracheae were measured ; their length varied from 1*7 to lillims .
, the average being about 2 millims. This , however , is much exceeded in fcases .
In another tangential section , perhaps the most perfect in the collection * hoc .
cit. , p. 486 .
( C.N. 1554 , from which photograph 6 , on Plate 72 was taken ) , we measured t tracheae , the lengths of which were almost the same , namely 4'1 and 4'2 milling y* is just equal to the maximum length of the tracheides in Finns* In the fascicr wood the tracheae run approximately vertically , with only trifling curvatures .
We have found it a very general rule that the pits in the secondary trachea--limited to their radial walls .
This statement is based on the evidence of.allr tangential sections which are sufficiently well-preserved to show the structure in defl The absence of pits on the tangential walls cannot be merely apparent , or duto imperfect preservation , for the same tangential sections , which show no pits in suite* view , present quite obvious pits , seen in section , on the radial walls of the trace* ( see Plate 78 , figs. 8 and 9 ) , while radial sections of the same specimens , show the\#187 ; iy in surface view with perfect clearness ( see Plate 78 , figs. 7 and 10).t We regard .establishment of this fact as of considerable interest , for it indicates that !
* mechanism for the passage of sap through the wood of Catamites was of the same aid as that existing in recent Coniferse .
Such a character is , of course , of no systentk value , as is shown by the well-known case of Drimys among the Dicotyledons .
] It is only in the most internal part of the fascicular wood , immediately outsidthi canal , that we find tangential pits on the .tracheae .
They were either limited th primary xylern , or at most extended to a few of the first-formed secondary layers se Plate 80 , fig. 21 ) .
As already mentioned , the peculiar short-celled wood at the wie has pits on all surfaces of its elements , but .
we have already given reason fo regarding this wood as primary .
The pits on the radial walls are sometimes of the scalariform type , that is , the at transversely elongated , so as to extend across the whole width of the wall ; in Ju cases they are shorter , having an elliptical outline .
More than one row of pits ny 1 present on the same radial wall .
In some radial sections it appears that the scalaiori pitting is limited to the more internal tracheae , sometimes even to those which n/ \ regarded as primary , while all the pits seen on the more external tracheae are c tl shorter form .
This , however , is not a constant rule .
For example , in the Lgt specimen of which we have examined sections , S the scalariform type of thickin prevails in all parts of the wood , which is 2 inches thick , though tracheae with sort pits are seen here and there .
As the nature of the pitting may vary in different)^ of the same trachea , we attach little importance to these differences .
They depend in part on the relative positions of the tracheae .
Where the elements u h adjacent radial rows correspond , so as to be in contact with each other by thij| radial surfaces , we generally find scalariform pitting .
Where , however , the ele * * * S Hi lei * See de Baby , loc. cit. , p. 506 .
f The preparations on which these statements are chiefly based are , C.N. 20 , A an ^ 65-68 , 83-87 , 88-91 , 130* and 131* , and 137* , 138* , 1554 , and 1937 .
t See Strasburger , ' Histologische Beitrage , ' vol. 3 , p. 161 .
S The radial section is C.N , 80 .
See Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 20 .
ORGANIZATION of the fossil plants of THE COAL-MEASURES .
883 so that each trachea abuts on portions of two others in the next row , we 3 shorter pits .
re tangential pits are present , i.e. , on the walls of the more internal tracheae , 9 usually scalariform .
Sometimes a few oval pits are seen on the tangential L the transitional region , before they disappear altogether .
irery oblique terminal walls of the tracheae have similar pits to those of the rails , from which indeed they are in no way marked off .
no-ential sections we frequently find the pits well shown in sectional view.# ages they are evidently bordered , the thickened ridges distinctly over-arching icate closing membrane , which is , of course , only preserved in the most big cases .
Between two tracheae the pits are bordered on both sides ; between m , and a cell belonging to a medullary ray , whether principal or secondary , we }-sided bordered pits , the border being on the side towards the trachea .
( See 8 , fig. 9 , A and B. ) L the general form of the tracheal elements , and especially from their tapering le impression is strongly conveyed that they are tracheides and not vessels , blique terminal walls have the same pitted structure as the lateral walls , and i no evidence that the pits were perforated in either case , though , of course , it ssible to prove that this never happened .
Direct evidence of the development be expected from a fossil , but when we come to consider the interfascicular e shall find some facts which speak strongly for the origin of each trachea from , cell .
There is no reason to doubt that the same mode of origin held good fascicular tracheae .
iceptional cases , however , we have found occasional traces of transverse walls tracheae .
Though such traces are sometimes doubtful , they are not always so .
irv few instances ' !
the transverse wall is unmistakeable , and indeed seems to ormed a permanent septum .
It must be understood , however , that such ions of septa are extremely rare , only occurring in certain preparations , and in tracheae in each case .
In those tracheae which show the transverse walls , their n is quite irregular .
We by no means believe that this casual appearance of isional septum points to the origin of the tracheae by cell-fusion .
It is doubtful er the septa , when present , were ever absorbed at all .
Two explanations are le ; either the young tracheide , while still a living cell , occasionally underwent ion , as is sometimes the case with sclerenchymatous fibres , J oi else these rerse walls are not normal , but mark the limit between the cells of a thylosis .
ire is no evidence for the existence of any xylem-parenchyma , apart from the llary rays , in the secondary wood .
Itadial sections are decisive on this point , U the parenchymatous cells manifestly form part of radial plates of muriform * They are shown in great perfection in C.N. 20a and b , 137s* and 138* , lo54 and 1937 .
' Such an instance occurs in C.1ST .
138* .
X See db Baky , loc. cit. , p. 134 .
tissue , or at least ( i.e. , in the case of uniseriate rays ) form continuous radial The fascicular wood consists of tracheae and medullary rays only .
Seh .
The great , differences in shape between the cells of the medullary rays suggest , possibility of a physiological differentiation , such as has been found by Strasbijr.^ in certain Dicotyledons , in which the upright and horizontal elements of the L differ considerably in structure , and presumably in function also.* But we have evidence of this in the fossil .
Neither have we any reason to suppose that trachea were present in the secondary rays , as is the case in the Abietinese , although y general absence of tangential pits in the secondary wood might have led us to esgl such an arrangement .
+ Only the nature of the pitting can guide us in such a quegon and the evidence available is not conclusive , for such details can only be adequseh studied in the best preserved specimens .
Pits on the walls separating the cells of the medullary rays from one anothean seldom shown at all clearly .
These cells usually have rather thin walls , andsucbit as they may have had could have been of no great depth .
It now remains for us to consider the structure of the principal medullary ray Ban more especially to investigate the process by which , in most of our specimens , ( he become bridged over by interfascicular wood .
The principal rays in the type ( B 2 ) which we are now considering are of maxim breadth next the pith , and taper off rapidly ( as seen in transverse section ) toward tt exterior ( see Plate 72 , photographs 2 and 3 ; Plate 77 , fig. 3 ) .
The width of the am end of the principal ray is much increased , in the older specimens , by the taogiti dilatation of the more internal cells of the ray.| We find this phenomenon in iai of the older stems , S but its occurrence is inconstant ; the dilatation may take plee some rays and not in others , within the same transverse section .
The tangiti width of a dilated ray-cell may amount to *25 millim. or more , which is from to three times that of the neighbouring unaltered cells .
It is the middle cells of ti n which become dilated ; those adjoining the wood on either side remain unaffte It is evident that so considerable an extension of the width of the medullaryra allowed of a perceptible enlargement , of the pith-area during the earlier sta^s secondary growth .
It is probable that the circumference of the pith mayaa increased in this manner to lj times its original extent , or even more .
It can be proved that the tangential extension of the inner ray-cells was an sti process , and not simply due to the tensions set up by the growth of other tisu\lt ; This is shown by the fact that the dilatation of the rays sometimes led to the criM of the wedges of fascicular wood between them , and thus to the obliteration t * * * S * Strasburger , ' Histologische Beitrage , ' vol. 3 , p. 209 .
t See Strasburger , loc. cit. , p. 9 .
y ' $ See the figure in Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 27 , fig. 26 , which , however , a small degree of dilatation compared with many larger stems .
S As in C.N. 133 , * \amp ; c. dBOANlZATlON OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
885 rlem canals.# This is a familiar process in recent plants , where parenchymatous show active dilatation ; we may specially cite the case of the tuberous roots of mtha , formerly described by one of us.+ structure of a principal medullary ray , as seen in a tangential section cut near a is fairly constant in ' the various specimens examined .
The middle rows of L* the ray , varying in number in different cases from 2 to 8 or more , are fften isodiametric , and sometimes tangentially dilated .
The cells at the s of the ray , adjoining the fascicular wood , are much elongated , but generally uare ends , like the rest ( see Plate 79 , fig , 15 ) .
If another tangential section , a rther to the exterior , be examined , we find that the principal rays are narrower ; ngated marginal cells have pointed ends , or are replaced by tracheides .
The short-celled part of the ray shows little change ( see Plate 79 , fig. 16 ) .
A third taken still further towards the outside of the wood , shows a more profound of structure .
The principal rays are here no longer continuous throughout the de , but are partitioned up into a number of short , lenticular rays by tracheae , nds of tracheae , which cut obliquely through the original ray ( see Plate 79 , The same process is carried still further as we advance yet more towards the r , until , in some cases , the principal rays can scarcely be recognized any more , } completely broken up into short rays , one or two cells in thickness , which iut little from the secondary rays of the fascicular wood .
J comparison of transverse sections confirms the above observations .
Tracing Lial cell-series of the principal ray outwards , we find , not only that the marginal P parenchymatous elements are succeeded by rows of trachese , but also that new p tracheae make their appearance at various places in the interior of the ray .
tter sometimes appear to form the direct outward continuation of paienchy-3 series , while sometimes they are interpolated between them ; in the second ?
me of the parenchymatous radial series die out altogether .
S ourable radial sections , which exactly follow the course of a principal ray , may low how the more elongated parenchymatous cells are succeeded , towaids the or , by tracheae .
|| ?
re are many variations in detail ; sometimes , for example , all the cells of the ecome more elongated towards the exterior of the wood .
A more important b.is is very conspicuous in O.N. 123* , where the inner part of each strand of wood is quite crushed , evidently took place during life , for the rest of the tissue , including the dilated ray-cells , is per-preserved .
] cot and Brebner , " Internal Phloem in Dicotyledons , " ' Annals of Botany , vol. 5 , 1891 .
lie above outline description is founded primarily on the series O.N. 65\#151 ; 68 , from which the figures ken , and has been confirmed by the study of several other series , as O.N. 20a and B , O.N. 83-87 , 38-91 , O.N. 130* and 131* , and O.N. 137* and 138* , as well as by that of single tangential sections , are scarcely less instructive , when , as often happens , they are very slightly oblique , so as to pass tally from an inner to a more external region of the wood , as in O.N. 1937 , \amp ; c. see especially Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 25 , figs. 17 and 18 .
As in C.N. 132*** .
886 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE fact is , that as we trace the ray outwards we often meet with elongated cel prosenchymatous form , but apparently without pits ( see fig. 16 ) .
Such cells are often found at the margins of the ray , but also occur in its interior .
We miistn these prosenchymatous elements as intermediate , forms between ray-cells* tracheides.* The study of transverse sections shows us that the intruding tracheides , wl k appearing at the sides or in the middle of the ray , are not isolated , but form , 4 , from their first origin , continuous radial series.t The question now arises how this interfascicular wood which we have descried developed .
The principal medullary rays consist of relatively short cells , judging from the analogy of recent plants , must have arisen from cambial eellscli form .
Now the difficulty is^ that wherever interfascicular tracheae appear , w fj these short elements replaced by extremely long ones .
A numerical estimate \#187 ; t difference has little value , in view of the great variations in length of both ra-c\lt ; and tracheides , but in many cases we may safely assume that the interfascn tracheides are twenty times as long as the parenchymatous cells of which the ti the place .
Yet the radial seriation of the elements is scarcely disturbed I t enormous change in their dimensions .
" Sliding growth " to such an extentvo inevitably bring with it a complete obliteration of the original radial arranges the secondary tissues.^ The hypothesis that the interfascicular tracheae arose by cell-fusion is a 1 tempting , but there is no sufficient evidence to support it .
We have alreair \lt ; cussed the rare cases in which there are traces of transverse walls ; in th v majority of tracheae nothing of the kind is visible .
There is no analogy amongec plants for the existence of xylem-vessels without any trace of the limits of th c from which they are formed .
S The sculpturing of the cell-wall is so often perfectly preserved in the fossiNt mites , that remains of transverse walls can scarcely have escaped obsertt considering how obvious they are wherever they exist in recent plants .
Besides this negative evidence , the existence of elements intermediate in fom length between the parenchymatous cells of the ray and the tracheae is ash argument for the origin of the latter by growth rather than by cell-fusion , espci as these transitional elements appear just where they are wanted , namely , whfl\#174 ; interfascicular wood is beginning to form .
1 The solution which we suggest is that the interfascicular tracheae arose* y * * * S * They are well shown in C.N. 20b , 83 , 90 , and 130* .
f See Williamson 's fignre above cited , Part I. , Plate 25 , fig. 17 .
I Cf .
De Baby , loc. cit. , p. 470 ; Krabbe , 'Das Gleitende Wachsthum , ' 1886 .
S Cf .
De Baby , loc. cit. , p. 165 .
The case of Draocena and its allies which might once hit-supposed to afford such an analogy , is now known to be one of sliding growth ( see Scon and " Secondary Tissues in Monocotyledons , " ' Annals of Botany , vol. 7 , 1893 ) .
)BGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
887 on of single cells , but that this elongation took place in the cambium-cells before hese were cut off from them .
We may suppose that an ordinary short cambial-mging to a principal ray , before beginning to produce trachese instead of ray-elf became elongated by sliding growth .
The existence of intermediate forms it probable that this elongation did not take place all at once .
It is probable 3ambial-cell , after growing to some extent in length , divided , and cut off a acheide or transitional element ; before the next division the cambial-cell e grown to a greater length , and then have cut off a longer tracheide , and suppose this process [ continued until the interfascicular cambial-cells attained constant length , after which the development would go on uniformly , as in cular wood .
ccount of the process is , of course , only a hypothesis , for the direct observation iccessive stages of histological development is impossible , even in the best-d fossil .
We think , however , that our hypothesis is one which explains the d we do not see how the great elongation of the tracheides can be reconciled preservation of radial seriation in any other way .
; ain small additional amount of sliding growth may also have taken place in ig tracheides themselves , after their separation from the cambium , just as is 0 happen in Pinus.* The existence of occasional intruding ends of elements , bly tracheides , seen in transverse section among the cells of the ray , renders bable .
ave not had an opportunity of making a similar study of the type ( our sub- ) in which the interfascicular wood at once bridges over the entire width of cipal rays .
Probably a like explanation would apply here also ; we need only that a larger proportion of the cambial cells forming the ray undergo ieous elongation .
It is evident that in both cases the process must involve srruption of a considerable number of the parenchymatous cell-series of the 1 we have already seen that this actually occurs .
'e leaving the subject of the principal medullary rays , something must be said v modified structure in the infranodal region .
Such a ray almost always ls out just below the node , forming , as seen in tangential section , the " lenti-rgan " of previous memoirs . !
In this region the cells of the ray are very us , and generally isodiametric throughout , often contrasting sharply with the longated elements in the rest of the ray ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and 6 ) .
ls toward the middle of the infranodal tissue of the ray are generally smaller , quently have thicker walls than their neighbours .
The most careful investi-however , has failed to reveal any traces of vascular tissue in this position , eservation of the specimens is often so perfect , that such tissue , if it had been See Kny , " Zur Kenntniss der Tracheiden , " ' Ber .
d. Deutseh .
Bot. Gesellschaft , ' vol. 4 , 1886 .
Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, p. 326 .
'Coxcrry , \#151 ; b , 5 x 888 PRO FES SOU W. C ; WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE present , could not have been overlooked.* The infranodal portion of the ray sistently parenchymatous throughout the whole thickness of the secondary wooc scarcely ever contains any interpolated tracheides .
Hence , in tangential ge^0 through the outer wood , where the principal rays generally are obliterated by^ fascicular wood , the lenticular masses of parenchyma below each node form ^ conspicuous feature ( see photograph 6 , also Williamson , " Organization , " pavp Plate 20 , fig. 24 ) .
Somewhat similar persistent tracts of parenchyma are soml1T found immediately above the node , but they are on a much smaller scale .
It very frequently happens that the infranodal tissue of the principal rays td goes disorganization of its inner cells , leading to the formation of the radial infr^ canals , so fully discussed in previous memoirs . !
It is well known that theses nodal canals afford the explanation of those protrusions on the medullary casts di are placed immediately below the nodes , and between the furrows correspid to the bundles ( see the photographs in Plate 86 ) .
This explanation hab accepted by Count Solms-Laubach , J and indeed admits of no doubt , if , for eun we compare the wonderfully preserved cast figured in a former paper , S with ue tangential section as that shown in our photograph 6 .
The agreement bet wen radiating , spoke-like rods of the cast , and the infranodal rays , as shown in the srti is exact , not only as regards position , but also in size and sectional form .
The extent to which the disorganization #of the infranodal parenchyma toe p during life may well have varied in different specimens .
In any case it wou .
i perished during fossilization much sooner than the woody tissue surroundingt .
this is quite enough to account for the marks on the casts .
The Secondary Cortical Tissues .
It is extremely rare to find the cortex of the older specimens in anyle preserved .
Except in the comparatively young stems already discussed , alllifci from the cambium outwards has usually disappeared .
The only instance d|\#187 ; p large corticated stem , with which yve are acquainted , is that described memoir , 11 and already referred to above .
Here the zone of cortex preserved is even broader than the wood , andjfM ) 2i inches in thickness .
The preservation is very imperfect , but in the radiase ( C.N. 80 ) it is possible to distinguish at least two zones of elongated , sqijM cells , with a regular radial arrangement .
We cannot doubt that this tissti * * as in c.N. 20b , 138* , and others , besides those photographed .
' *+* + S II Loc .
cit. , p. 312 .
Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 31 .
Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX , Plate 20 , figs. 14-21 .
The sections are C.N. 79-8 rganization of the fossil plants of THE COAL-MEASURES .
889 re of internal periderm .
In other parts the cortex consists of prosenchy-iells .
cimen of a comparatively small stem , which we have recently examined , rreat light on the origin of the periderm from the primary cortical tissues e 79 , fig- 18 ) .
The transverse section shows that the cortex is well-preserved \gt ; ut , though in most places somewhat separated from the wood by the of rootlets of Stigmaria .
Many of the large parenchymatous cells of the \#166 ; e divided up by tangential septa into short radial series .
The divisions are ed strictly to any one zone of the cortical tissue , but occur chiefly in its inner through which a fairly regular band of dividing cells can be traced .
We at there can be no doubt that we have here to do with an early stage of the a of periderm .
It is certain that a secondary tissue of some kind is being \gt ; y the division of cortical cells .
We know , from the older specimen , that periderm was formed abundantly in the cortex ; we can scarcely be wrong in ag the two facts .
y be worth while to state expressly that the specimen from which fig. 18 is as the whole thickness of the wood , perfectly preserved , and is a typical m , such as that shown in Plate 72 , photograph 3 .
The Diaphragms .
) leaving the subject of secondary changes in the stem of we wish bfcention to the formation of periderm on the diaphragms .
These persistent t parenchyma , which separate the internodal cavities of Catamites from one have often been described .
^ M^hen well preserved it is always evident that 3 several cells in thickness .
The inner layers of cells of the diaphragm often cker walls than those towards the upper and lower surfaces .
We have often 1 that the thin-walled superficial cells are divided up by cell walls parallel to Pace .
In some specimens these divisions have taken place so freely that a f regular periderm-like tissue coats the diaphragm on either side ( see E ) , fig. 19 ) .
It is most probable that this secondary tissue really represents a E* internal cork , which isolated the persistent diaphragm from the disorganizing by the destruction of which the medulla became fistular .
ogies are not wanting , among recent plants , for the formation of periderm in h. It occurs , for example , in certain anomalous Campanulacese and Gentianese , Aconitum.t In Catamites , however , so far as we have observed , the medullary m seems to be limited to the surface of the diaphragms , and not to extend to -ipheral layer of persistent pith which surrounds the medullary cavity .
1 Williamson , " Organization , " Parts I. and IX .
s JosT , ' Bot. Zeitung , ' 1890 , pp. 443 and 491 ; HjSrail , " Reclierches snr l'Anatomie compart de les Dicotyledones , " ' Ann. Sci. Nat. , Bot. , ' series 7 , vol. 2 , 1885 .
5x2 890 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE The Branching of Calamites .
Many of the specimens investigated show the insertion of lateral branches up relatively main axis.* In the great majority of these instances the branches a small diameter compared with the stem which bears them .
In judging 0fil relative dimensions , however , caution is necessary , for we know that in many ^ the pith of the branch tapered almost to a point towards its insertion , giving n t( the well-known conical terminations of many of the medullary casts ( see the in Plate 86 ) .
But , making due allowance for this fact , there can still 1 doubt of the relatively small size of the lateral branches in very many kge( especially in those where several were given off at the same node .
As already site the branches are always inserted immediately above a node , and are nearly avai placed between two of the outgoing foliar bundles ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 \amp ; df Plate 80 , fig. 21 ; also Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 28 , he m indicates the foliar bundles ) . !
An exception is presented in a sectii Oalamopitus , in which a branch appears to be inserted immediately above ue , :he bundles , ; } ; and in one case , so far as we have observed , in the typical Ccdammx The branches often have a verticillate arrangement , but do not seem to , haw be disposed in the whorl with any great regularity .
Thus the transverse sections c o ; of the largest stems showing structure , || pass through four lateral branches r , t same node , which are placed at irregular intervals .
Sometimes a single brand on was developed at a node , as is very clearly shown in the specimenT from di fig. 20 , on Plate 79 , is drawn .
On the other hand a tangential section of a largish shows four branches , regularly arranged at the same node , and suggests that hes t whorl ( of which such a section can only show a small part ) may have been corole Two of the four branches are shown in photograph 5 , on Plate 72 .
The structure of the branch at or near its insertion is very clearly show ; in number of preparations ( see Plate 72 , photographs 5 and 6 ; Plate 79 , fig. 20 ; Pie !
figs. 21 and 22 ) .
Tangential sections through the inner part of the wood f t main stem show the basal portion of the branch in transverse section .
Ii si preparations** we see that the branch has a parenchymatous pith , often comiet preserved , sometimes partly fistular .
Surrounding the pith we find a ring of yl\lt ; arranged in more or less distinct bundles , which , though less obvious than thos of ordinary free stem , are still quite indubitable in good sections .
That in these hn * See the descriptions and figures in former Memoirs ; Williamson , " Organization , " Parts I.nd f Also well shown in O.N. 20b , 90 , 138* , \amp ; c. + See Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 28 , fig. 38 .
S C.N. 1937 .
|| C.N. 133* , 134* , \amp ; c. From 134* the fig. 22 on Plate 80 is taken .
C N. 132** .
** As in C.N. 20b , 90 , 138* , besides those figured ; see also Williamson , " Organization , Rt J Plate 21 , fig. 28 , ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
891 iHy have the primary wood of the branch , is conclusively proved by sections are transverse to the main stem , and pass tangentially through the base of the i ( see Plate 79 , fig* 20).* Here we see the bundles of the branch in longitudinal with their annular and spiral tracheae , and the bands of interfascicular hyma between them .
In the tangential sections of the main stem ( transverse branch ) it is also easy to demonstrate the elements of the primary xylem branch , when they are cut at all obliquely .
Our best example of this is ction shown in Plate 80 , fig. 21 , which passes close to the pith of the parent md therefore shows the branch at its actual base .
Here the groups of primary around the pith of the branch are perfectly obvious , and we can distinguish spiral tracheae .
On the lower side of the branch we can directly trace the uity of its primary xylem with the nodal wood of the main axis , characteristic internodal canals of the Oalamitean stem are not present at the base of the branch ( see photograph 9 on Plate 73 , and fig. 21 on Plate 80 ) .
jr are they found , in their typical form , in any part of the branch , so far as it is ded in the wood of the main axis .
In sections which pass transversely through anch , at any point beyond its actual inner extremity , we frequently find a ring s in its tissue ( not to be confused with accidental lesions ) , situated immediately l the xylem-bundles ( see Plate 72 , photograph 5 , and more especially photo-6 ) .
These gaps are less regular in form than the normal canals , and also differ }hem in a more important point , for , as a rule , they are not empty , but are ed by a lax tissue , consisting of rather large and thin-walled cells .
Within the mong the thin-walled cells , we can often detect the protoxylem elements of the ry bundle.t Hence We regard these gaps as corresponding to the typical canals ordinary stem , in so far as they mark the position of the disorganized proto-t-groups .
As to the lax tissue which usually fills these spaces , two views are \gt ; le .
It may have been primary , consisting of parenchymatous cells which weie it among the primitive tracheae from their first origin ; or it may have been a ormation , analogous to a thylosis , such as has been observed in the carinal canals 'uisetum .
% We regard the latter view as the more probable .
All our specimens ing branching are comparatively advanced stems , with a considerable thickness sondary wood .
Hence it is almost certain that the primary tissue at the base of iranch would have already become functionless , especially since many of these dies were evidently abortive , as will be shown below .
The formation of thyloses r such conditions is quite probable .
e are the more inclined to this hypothesis the fact that the tissue filling the gaps is conspicuously different from the sur- Uie same point is shown in a similar section of another specimen , C.N. 132* .
In one of the rations kindly lent to us by Count Solms-Laubach , this structure is , if possible , even more if ally preserved than in the section figured , in C.N. 20b , and 1554 .
See Strasburger , ' Histologische Beitrage , ' 3 , p. 437 , rounding parenchyma .
A similar filling of the canals with parenchyma has once o twice been observed in the ordinary free stems .
The primary xylem-bundles of the branch are usually surrounded on the outside b a zone of radially-arranged secondary wood , no doubt the product of the cambium the branch .
In fig. 21 we see that secondary wood has only been formed towards tl upper side of the branch .
On the lower side the primary wood was continuous wit that of the stem , and so no cambium could be formed .
Further towards the exteri this hindrance no longer exists , and the zone of secondary wood becomes comply ( see photographs 5 and 6 , Plate 72 ) .
The secondary wood of the branch is connected in the most complete manner wb that of the main stem on which it is inserted .
The direct connection is mainly frq below .
Here the secondary tracheides of the parent axis abut immediately on th\lt ; g of the branch .
Other tracheides pass up from below , at the sides of the branch , a ] bend over to join its lateral strands of xylem , while others again curve round over % top , and bend down to form a union with the wood on the upper side of the bram .
The whole structure bears a most striking resemblance to the insertion of a lated shoot of Pinus , as figured , in tangential section , by Professor Strasburger.* Oo-sionally , a few tracheides appear to be continuous in the upward direction , from :e branch into the wood .
A radial section through the insertion of a branch , figured in a previous memoi , + shows with great clearness how the pith of the branch terminates inwards in a nariw neck , by which it is continuous with the pith of the parent stem .
The same fadis shown in various transverse sections ( see Plate 79 , fig. 20 , which , however , is ot median through the branch ; and Plate 80 , fig. 22 ) .
The series of transverse seethi cut from the base of the specimen discovered by Mr. Wild , and already referred o , also illustrates the point ( see Plate 73 , photographs 7 , 8 , and 9 ) .
At a distace from its base the branch has a large fistular pith , surrounded by a ring of ab.it 24 bundles , of the normal structure ( photograph 7 ) .
Lower down the pith is m b smaller ; the bundles are still normal , but are much reduced in number ( photograph which shows 14 bundles ) .
At the base ' itself the pith is reduced to a minute bay and is no longer fistular .
The vascular bundles are not more than 10 in numsr are crowded closely together , and their canals can no longer be recognized ( pko gragh 9 ) .
In fact , we have here almost reached the inner termination of the brarh such as is shown , in connection with the main axis , in Plate 80 , fig. 21 .
All tM facts agree exactly with the appearances presented by the medullary casts \#171 ; e Plate 86 ) .
So far as we have gone , the structure of the branches in their basal regions ia been sufficiently intelligible .
Certain difficulties , however , remain .
If we exam tangential sections through the outer layers of the secondary wood , and pasn * ' Histologische Beitrage , ' vol. 3 , plate 2 , fig. 40 .
f Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 27 ( C.N. 97 ) .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
893 tersely across a branch at some little distance from its actual base , we often find ily peculiar structure , already described and figured in former memoirs.* The rerse section of the branch shows no well-defined pith and no clear traces of \gt ; rimary groups of xylem .
It consists of a parenchymatous mass , into which eides penetrate in all directions from the surrounding secondary wood .
These ling tracheides describe strange curves , and extend as far as the middle of the b cutting up the parenchyma into isolated groups . !
In fact , in these cases , as ace the branch outwards , its structure , instead of approaching more nearly to 3f the normal Calamitean stem , becomes more and more anomalous .
Such a , ur is in fact totally different from that of a Catamites or any other known From the sections of Mr. Wild 's specimen we know that no such peculiarities und in a normal branch , at any point , from its base upwards .
We believe that cue explanation- is to be sought in the fact that the remarkable structure in ion is not a normal one , but is due to the abortion of the branch , and the pent enclosure of its base by the secondary wood of the parent stem .
, have direct evidence proving that branches became abortive and were enclosed e wood .
A good illustration of this is afforded by the radial section already ioned .
J Here the normal pith of the branch can be traced outwards , up to a n point , at which it is suddenly cut off by a layer of secondary wood seen in [ section .
The section is obviously median , so there can be no doubt that the really shuts off the end of the truncated branch .
Precisely the same pheno-a is shown in some of the transverse sections ( see Plate 80 , fig. 22 ) , which pass gh the median plane of a branch .
Here also the parenchymatous pith of the h extends for a certain distance from the base , and is then suddenly cut off mass of secondary wood , which , in this case , is seen in transverse section .
The between the pith of the branch and this callus-wood , if we may call it so , is y straight , or if anything convex towards the interior , so the appearances cannot bly be explained by obliquity of section .
We have , in fact , two other sections e same branch , passing one above , the other below , its median plane , and the together prove conclusively that the truncated end is completely shut in by idary wood .
S l these , and other similar cases , it is evident that a meristem was formed across pith of the branch , at a certain stage , by which secondary wood was formed , pletely cutting off the basal portion of the branch from all direct communication i the exterior .
We can hardly doubt that the free end of the branch was riously or simultaneously cast off .
It is impossible to say at what stage of See Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 26 .
As shown in C.N. 88 , 131* , and other preparations .
C.N. 97 , Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 27 . .
The sections in question are C.N. 133* , 134* , and 135* .
From the middle one our figure is drawn .
er branches in the same preparations show the same structure .
894 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE development of the branch abortion took place .
Possibly it never advanced m\i beyond the condition of a bud , more probably it formed a shoot of limited duratir comparable to the short leaf-bearing shoots of Pinus .
This then we believe to be the explanation of the apparent intrusion of trachea ; into the middle of the branch .
The tracheides which appear to penetrate into L branch , represent , in our opinion , the commencement of that formation of callns-1^ wood , by which the base of the lateral shoot soon became completely enclosed .
We have gained , then , this additional fact respecting the branches of Calamik-in many cases they were abortive , or of short duration , and their bases then becaie shut in , like " knots , " by the wood of the parent stem .
One specimen , previously figured , * shows a branch somewhat different from the already described .
The stem and branch are enclosed within a common zoneof secondary wood , and the sections show that the dimensions of the two re approximately equal , as is also the number of their vascular bundles .
Evidently have here to do with a different order of branching from that which we have 1st considered .
In this specimen the branch repeats the characters of the main stem , ad was presumably of equal morphological importance ; in the previous cases the bran.es were relatively small lateral appendages , and probably of limited duration .
As regards the mode of origin of the branches , we are necessarily without any disci evidence .
Now , however , that the continuity between the primary tissues of , he branch and those of the main stem has been demonstrated , there can be no doubt lat the ramification took place while the axis was still young .
In fact we have esry reason to suppose that the branching was normal , not adventitious , and that the lak-a ] shoots arose , like the normal branches of Equisetum or any other vascular plan in the immediate neighbourhood of the growing point .
The secondary wood in wicii the base of the branch is imbedded , was evidently deposited after the branch had formed ; the stem and branch together became invested simultaneously by a conaoi woody zone .
In fact the conditions in Calamites are the same as in the branch : ; o any stem with secondary growth in thickness , and present no special difficulties , iov that the facts are known .
The successive changes in structure which we find in a branch , as we trace 00 its base upwards , have already been described .
The changes consist essentia^a * rapid increase in the diameter of the pith , and in the number of vascular buiih surrounding it . .
These facts , which have been already demonstrated by the study of spifue showing structure , are exactly reproduced in those medullary casts which repnen the pith-cavity of lateral branches .
After the fundamental truth had been establi^ that the sandstone and other allied specimens , which were long believed to actual stems of Calamites , were merely inorganic casts of a central cavity from * Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 31 , A and B ( C.N. 1 ' ) ?
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
895 =dullary tissue had disappeared , * the study of these plants underwent a radical ?
The idea that the base of a large lateral branch adhered to the stem solely ijnute constricted neck , having been shown to be an impossible thing , t search be made for the true sustaining structures , and these were found in the strong f secondary xylem .
following series of photographs , taken from seven specimens of medullary casts , ved in the Natural History Department of the British Museum , illustrate the are of the branch , from its base upwards .
Such casts , when perfect , invariably tate at their lower extremity in a very narrow conical point , on which no traces vertical grooves and ribs , indicating the number and position of the vascular Jg and the primary rays , are present .
This point corresponds to what , in the ing tables , is designated the proto-medulla of the branch , i.e. , the basal portion pith by which it was connected with that of the parent stem , ise tables give the length and circumference of each internode , as well as the jr of its woody wedges ( vascular bundles ) ; in all these respects an increase place in each successively higher internode , for a limited distance , as we ascend , id the point where this increase is checked , which is usually within a few ; from the conical base of the pith of the branch , the latter is prolonged to a or less considerable height , with very little further change in the features ed to .
This fact was remarkably illustrated by the medullary cast of a stem , feared by Mr. George Wild in the roof of a colliery under his superintendence Ashton-under-Lyne .
This specimen , which was a portion of the middle part of amite , was 30 feet in length , but while the diameter of the pith at its lower vas 11*5 centims. , at its upper extremity it had only increased to 15 2 centims. , y small increase in a stem of such a length , e photographs represent ( with the exception of F ) the basal portions of the mens , and the accompanying tables give the measurements and number of liar bundles in each internode , as above explained .
* Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , 1871 .
i " Williamson , '.'Organization , " Part IX .
; see Plate 21 , fig. 30 .
'1DCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. Tables and Photographs from Medullary Casts .
Specimen A. Column I. Number of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of internode .
Column IV .
Number of vascular bundles in circumfereri .
of inter node .
7 Imperfect 43 6 41 centims. 39 5 IB " 31 4 1-3 " 22 3 10 centim. 16 2 0-4 " 11 1 0-35 " Not distinct 1 Proto-medulla almost destroyed .
See Photograph A , Plate 86 .
Specimen B. Column I. Number of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of internode .
Column IV .
Number of vascul bundles in circumfence of internode .
7 3*0 centims. 8*0 centims. 61 6 2-0 " 8-0 " 55 5 P5 " 8*5 " 49 4 1*1 " 8-6 " 45 3 14 " 10 centim. 8-1 46 2 6-2 " 35 1 Basal portion* 0-65 " 070 " 5-0 " 27 See Photograph B , Plate 86 .
* Upper half with ill-defined traces of bundles ; lower half proto-me.dulla of branch , ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
897 Specimen C. Column I. ber of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of internode .
Column IV .
Number of vascular bundles in circumference pf internode .
10 6 0 centims. 8*5 centims. 36 9 4-5 " Imperfect Imperfect 8 4-5 " 8*5 centims. 31 7 25 " 8*3 " 29 6 1-5 " 8*0 " 24 5 1*0 centim. 7*6 " 20 4 1*0 " 6-5 " 15 3 0*4 " 5*5 " 12 2 0*3 " 4*8 " 6 or 7 1 0*3 " 3*2 " 5 or 6 p-raedulla . .
.1*1 " at its upper portion See Photograph C , Plate 86 .
Specimen D. Column I. nber of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of inter-node .
Column IV .
Number of vascular bundles in circumference of inter node .
9 3*8 centims. 9*0 centims. 50 8 3*1 " 8*3 " 49 7 2*5 7*7 " 40 6 2*2 7*7 " 41 5 1*5 7*5 " 35 4 11 5*1 " 32 3 0*7 centim. 3*7 \#166 ; " 23 2 0*5 3*1 " 14 1 v v 99 Imperfect Imperfect Imperfect 1 .
1 See Photograph D , Plate 86 .
5 y 2 Specimen E. Column I. Number of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of internode .
Column IV .
Number of vascular bundles in circumferer .
of internode .
11 1'9 centim. 23"5 centims. 38 10 P4 " All lower intemodes 32 9 1-3 more or less com- 30 8 1-3 " pressed 26 or 27 7 11 25 6 1*0 centim. 23 5 0-8 " 19 4 10 " 20 3 0-8 " About 18 2 0-8 " 13 1 Partly disorganized Some well-formed , It partly disorganize and broken away See Photograph E , Plate 86 .
Specimen F. Column I. Number of internode .
Column II .
Maximum " vertical length of internode .
G O eentims .
5*5 5*5 5*5 4-0 Column III .
Semi-circumference of internode .
15'2 centims. 15-3 " 15*5 15*5 15*5 Column IY .
Number of vascul* bundles in semi-circm-ference of interao \#166 ; about 50 53 This specimen is from a part of a branch some distance above its base , and cm quently the dimensions are fairly uniform throughout .
See Photograph F , Plate 86 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
899 Specimen CJolumn I. er of internode .
Column II .
Vertical length of internode .
Column III .
Circumference of internode .
Column IV .
Number of vascular bundles in circumference of internode .
10 4 0 centims. 9'2 centims. 33 Iv 9 3*4 9-5 34 g 3*0 9-0 28 7 21 9*0 23 6 1*6 8-6 19 5 13 8*1 18 4 0*85 centim. 8*0 18 3 065 73 about 14 2 0-60 " 6*5 \#187 ; 12 1 portion without net bundles , but \gt ; ably too large )rotomedulla 0*50 " 4-8 f " -1 ?
' but indistinct See Photograph G , Plate 86 .
The Roots of Calamites .
311 we began writing the present paper we did .
not expect to be able to thiow rht on the structure of the root of Calcimttes .
Specimens showing the roots nection with the stems , and having at the same time the internal structure ved , were not yet known to us .
Consequently it was impossible to determine if any .
of the petrified remains were to be assigned , as roots , to the Calamitean s of us , however ( D. H. Scott ) has recently had the opportunity , through the bss of M. Renault , of examining certain specimens in his collection , which the question in quite a different light .
Two of these specimens show an axis , with xucture of Astromyelon , in actual continuity with the stem of an Arthropitoid fit , identical with such as we have described in this paper .
Hence the opinion i M. Renault first expressed in 1885 , # is confirmed in a most striking manner .
5 can be no doubt , from the evidence of these specimens , that the Astromyelon in ion is an appendage of the stem of Calamites ( Artbropitys of the French authors ) , there this appendage is to be regarded as morphologically a root , is anothei don , but the anatomy renders it highly probable that this is its true nature , it another question remained ; are the English specimens on which the genus .
Nouvelles Recherches sir le genre Astromyelon , " 'Mem .
de la Soc. des'Sci .
Not .
de Saone et Loire , Astromyelon was founded identical with the Calamitean appendages of M. Ken collection ?
aw8 We propose to reserve the detailed consideration of Astromyelon for ano%r occasion , but a preliminary examination of the slides in the Williamson Oollec shows that the larger specimens , at any rate , namely those with a distinct pith * L the same structure as M. Renault 's specimens , which are directly borne c Calamitean stem .
The question as to the identity of all the forms grouped Astromyelon in a former memoir , t will have to be reconsidered in the new light \*y has now been thrown on these fossils .
It is , however , highly probable that# possess , in the various forms of Astromyelon , not merely the principal roots , butL , the finer rootlets of Catamites .
It is interesting to recall the fact that the first specimens of r originally described under the name of Cbut subsequently separated , o th ground of certain structural differences which find a sufficient explanation , iith organs in question are to be regarded as roots and not stems .
S We still require much further information respecting the earliest stages c tl development of Catamites , in order to fill up the gap between two states , as to hit we already possess considerable knowledge .
We now know the spores of Calm pedunculatus|| which we may regard as a typical fructification of the Arthroto Calamites , and which appears to have been homosporous .
We also know the at later stage the true Calamites sprang from rhizomes , with normal nodes audits nodes , which were very slender , as compared with the typical stems .
W i indebted especially to M. Grand'Eury for this information . !
He figures , no many other specimens , one of these rhizomes , which gives off from several oil stems of the normal Calamitean type .
These stems , though merely presem sandstone medullary casts , devoid of all traces of xylem or cortex , are manyii ) larger than the rhizome from which they spring .
We unfortunately know noting the organization of these rhizomes .
If their structure should turn out to be snj than that of the normal stem of Calamites , we may find in them an early sigt development of the plant .
We cannot doubt that Calamites , like the Equiseta , and all recent Vascular Cvf gams , possessed a sexual prothallus , though its discovery is doubtless We may conjecture that the first product of the prothallus after fertilization m * Such as that figured in Williamson , " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 3 .
t Loc .
cit. , Part XII .
\#163 ; Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 25 , fig. 16 .
8 Williamson , loc. cit. , Part IX .
, p. 319 . .
_ J The name which we propose to give to the strobiles described by Williaksok , m Organ* Part XIV .
See below , p. 916 .
.H ' Flore Carbonifere du Departement de la Loire , \amp ; c. , ' 1877 .
the nature of a rhizome .
If so , the latter forms an important link in the ory leading from the spore to the typical plant .
II .
CALAMOSTACHYS .
olio wing observations relate to three forms belonging to this genus : xlamostachys Binneyana , Schpr .
( homosporous ) .
Casheana , Williamson ( heterosporous ) .
doubtful form , which may , however , possibly be referable to .
nostachys Binneyana , which we will first consider , is one of the best-known of ctifications found in the Coal-Measures , * and we are now in a position to \#187 ; almost every detail of its structure .
Unfortunately , however , the specimens is afford no direct evidence whatever as to the nature of the stem on which jtification was borne .
In no case has C. Binneyana been found in connection getative organs of any kind .
In endeavouring to determine to what kind of le strobilus belonged , we can , therefore , only be guided ( 1 ) by the morphology itomy of the strobilus itself , and ( 2 ) by the specimens in which similar , though atical fructifications have'been found in actual connection with the stems which em. Many such specimens have been described and figured by " Weiss and uthorSjt and they leave no doubt that fructifications of the type id to plants of the family Calamariese .
The whole question , however , can i profitably discussed after the structure of Calamostachys has been described SL Calamostachys Binneyana .
1 .
General Morphology .
specimens available for examination consist solely of strobili or portions of i ; not even a peduncle is found in connection with the fructifications , and its at absence leads us to suppose that the fruit was a sessile one .
largest strobilus known to us measures ljf- inches ( 3*4 centims. ) m length , and is \gt ; lie not an absolutely complete specimen .
The photographs 10 and 11 on Plate 73 , e , for example , Binney , " Observations on the structure of Fossil Plants foundin the Cai'boniferons ( 0alamodendron commune ' ) , " 1 Palseontographical Society/ 1867 Carruthers , " On the structure fruit of Catamites , " * Seemann 's Journal of Botany , ' vol. 5 , 1867 ; Williamson , " Organization , 1873 ; Part X. , 1880 ; Part XV .
, 1889 ; Weiss , " Steinkoblen-Calamarien , " I. , 1876 , and IT .
, Stur , ' Calamarien der Schatzlarer Schichten .
' ^eiss , loc. cit. , Parts I. and II .
See especially the closely allied C. Ludwigi , Part II .
, Atlas , 18 , fig.2 .
Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 32 .
Renault , ' Course de Botanique U vol. 2 , \amp ; e , 902 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE represent portions of this strobilus .
The maximum diameter is about 7-5 m-|| .
Most of the specimens are considerably smaller .
The fructification consists of a rather slender axis , bearing numerous whorl appendages , which are of two kinds , fertile and sterile .
The former will be spoke f as sporangiophores , the latter as bracts .
The sterile and fertile verticils succeed another in regular alternation .
Above each whorl of bracts is one of sporangioph then another of bracts , and so on ( see Plate 73 , photographs 10 and 11 ) .
The whorls are equidistant from one another , each fertile whorl being placed ex t ] in the middle of the internode between two verticils of sterile bracts .
This charts at once sharply distinguishes the Calamosta type of fruit from the Calam\#169 ; \#187 ; i strobilus described in previous papers , * and from the forms described by Weiss , 'tide the name of Palceostachya , in both of which the sporangiophores arise from the ig ] between the sterile whorl and the internode above .
In the large cone ahad mentioned ( see photographs 10 and 11 ) eighteen whorls of bracts were present , vit the corresponding whorls of sporangiophores between them .
The total number i tli strobilus , when complete , was probably somewhat greater .
Each sterile whorl consisted of about twelve^ coherent bracts , forming a hornnt disc , at the margin of which the bracts became separate from one another , anchei sharply upwards , extending at least as far as the second sterile whorl abov ( , photograph 10 ) .
Consequently any transverse section of the strobilus passes thus at least two alternating series of these overlapping extremities of the brad follows that each fertile verticil is enclosed by a ring of free bracts belonging ! .
t two sterile whorls below ( see Plate 73 , photographs 12 and 13 ; Plate 74 , nm graph 14 ) .
The bracts of successive sterile whorls , as already indicated , alternate wit 0 another , so that the free extremities of the bracts of any verticil pass betweeifcbi of the verticil next above .
This is easily seen in tranverse sections of the stibil such as those shown in the photographs just referred to .
The fact is also ddt from the tangential sections , in which the distribution of the vascular bundlesn coherent disc affords a useful clue , if the free tips of the bracts cannot bereft ( Plate 73 , photograph 11 ) .
The cohesion of the bracts serves to distinguish C. Binneyana from the veryim C. Ludwigi , Carr .
, in which they are free throughout almost their whole extei | The fertile whorls consist of the sporangiophores , a name which we|p ^ 'Mem .
Lit. and Phil.* ' 1884 , Plate 16 , fig. 2 ; ; iat\lt ; * Williamson , On a new form of Calamitean strobilns , \amp ; c. , Manchester , ' Series 3 , vol. 4 , 1870 ; " Organization , " Part XIV .
f 'Steinkohlen-Calamarien , ' Part I. , 1876 , Plate 15 , and Part II .
, .
gj fig. 4 ; Plate 22 , fig. 15 .
See also Renault 's Volhmannia , 'Ann .
des .
Sci. Na .
, vol. 3 , Plate 2 , 1876 .
A A " 0 , oWm + There were thirteen in C. N. 997 , from which the Photograph 12 , on Plate 73 , was S See Weiss , loc. cit. , Part 2 , 'Atlas , ' Plate 22 , fig. 8 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
903 bylls , as the morphological nature of these organs is somewhat doubtful , in f their remarkable variations in position , in various Calamarian fructifications , sporangiophores in each verticil are usually about half as numerous as the of a sterile whorl ( see Plate 73 , photograph 1 3 ) .
We have found 6 , 7 , and 8 in it whorls , and the number seems to have varied even in the same specimen , sms to be the most frequent number .
It is evident that the sporangiophores always have been exactly half as numerous as the bracts , for the number of ter may be uneven ( see photograph 12 on Plate 73 ) , nor have we seen any whorl with as many as 16 bracts .
sporangiophores , unlike the bracts , do not alternate with one another in suc-whorls , but are placed one above the other , in vertical rows ( see Plate 73 , raph 11 ) .
Hence , it is evident that their position can bear no constant i to that of the bracts .
i sporangiophore consists of a stalk or pedicel , having a peltate expansion at its d. The pedicel is broadest at its base ( see Plate 73 , photograph 13 , and Plate 29 ) .
peltate expansion of the sporangiophore bears four sporangia , which are 3d to its underside , at the extreme edge .
A tangential section of the strobilus any shows the four diagonally placed sporangia grouped around the pedicel of jorangiophore ( see Plate 73 , photograph II , Plate 81 , fig. 30 ) .
whorl of sporangiophores , with their sporangia , appears to have almost filled space between two successive verticils of bracts .
short sketch which we have given of the general morphology of the strobilus is snt to show that , so far as the sporangiophores are concerned , a general resemblance to Equisetum , as has often been pointed out before , nailer number of sporangia on each " peltate scale " is not a difference of much ; anee .
alternating verticils of sterile bracts are , however , without an analogue in ztum , unless indeed we regard the " annulus " in the latter genus as repre-g a single whorl of bracts at the base of the strobilus .
It is evident that iostachys , and indeed all the allied fructifications , were more highly differen-than those of existing Equiseta .
* will now proceed to consider the structure of in detail , beginning that of the axis .
2.\#151 ; Structure of the Axis .
c axis of the strobilus is in all cases traversed by a central cylinder , or steal , n i consists of a pith , surrounded by a ring of vascular bundles .
Two distinct adopt the convenient term , introduced by M. van Tieghem , for the whole central cylinder , er of a root or stem , including pith ( if present ) , vascular bundles , interfascicular tissue , and \gt ; OCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. ' 5 z 904 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE types of steal are present in different specimens .
The one , as seen in transve-section , has a bluntly triangular form , with the vascular bundles situated at L prominent corners ( see Plate 80 , figs. 23 and 24 ) .
In the other type , the steal approximately quadrangular , with a bundle at each angle ( see Plate 74 , photograph and Plate 80 , fig. 25 ) .
In the specimen photographed the angles are espeehy prominent , and the sides concave , so that the whole section of the steal is somewi cruciform .
The triangular and quadrangular types are quite distinct .
The differ^ between them does not depend on the level at which the transverse section is takr for we find the two structures indiscriminately in sections passing through he sterile node , the fertile node , or an intermediate internode .
On the whole he triangular form is the more frequent of the two .
We found the quadrangular :rm of steal only in cases where the number of sporangiophores in a verticil is 8 ; die converse , however , does not hold good , for in one preparation showing qhl sporangiophores , the steal is distinctly of the bluntly triangular type* We will describe this type first .
The whole middle portion of the cyliter forming much the greater part of its mass , so far as primary structure is conceded consists of the pith .
The whole of the pith appears to have been persistent ; sue times a few cells near the centre have disappeared ( Plate 80 , fig. 23 ) , but tb i obviously due to imperfect preservation .
In many cases the outer zone of medtar cells has thickened walls , while those nearer the middle are more delicate ( Plat 8( figs. 23 and 24 ) .
In other specimens the entire pith is thick-walled throughoutJ It is often difficult or even impossible to distinguish the thick-walled medi cells from tracheides , in a transverse section .
From this difficulty the mistalfe rot of regarding the steal of Calamostachys as a solid vascular axis , a mistake ni\lt ; was corrected in a previous memoir published in 1889.J jg Longitudinal sections show that the cells of the pith are elongated and ftc prosenchymatous , especially those towards the periphery ( see Plate 81 , fig. 27 ) .
The vascular bundles are placed at the projecting angles of the triquetrous tel It is often difficult to say whether one bundle or two are present at each cornei some of the clearest sections it is evident that there are two , so that the^oi number of bundles in the cylinder is , in these cases , six ( see Plate 80 , figs. 23 and24 At the inner margin of each bundle is an empty space , less definite and rful than an internodal canal in Calamites , but constantly present , except at the nodes .
These spaces or canals always contain the disorganized remains of annular tracheides , and evidently mark the position of the protoxylem-group \lt ; perieycle ( see van Tieghem , " Sir la Polystelie , " 'Ann .
des Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ser. 7 , vol. 3 , $8 ' Traite de Botanique , ' 2nd edition , p. 765 .
) * 01ST .
1898 .
t See Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 6 , fig. 38 .
( O.N. 989 .
) + .
Williamson , " Organization , " Part XV .
, p. 160 ; Plate 2 , fig. 7 .
S See also the figure in WILLIAMSON , " Organization , " Part X. , Plate lo , fig. .
ORGANIZATION 0F THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
905 are bundle ( see Plate 80 , figs. 23 and 24 ; Plate 81 , figs. 27 and 28 ) .
Where stinct spaces are present at each corner of the steal , we are therefore justified iming that two distinct vascular bundles existed , as is especially clear in fig. 23 .
however these spaces are not distinct from one another , and it may be impos- 0 say , in such cases , whether one or two protoxylem-groups were present .
We Loticed that the bundles at each corner are most evidently separate at the level sporangiophores , as for example in fig. 23 .
They seem to have diverged a from one another at the points where the traces of the sporangiophores were off .
find then that each prominent angle of the triquetrous steal contains either iscular bundle , or a pair of bundles in close proximity , the total number of ; s thus being either three or six.* amount of primary xylem must have been very small .
Some of the prepara-ihow only a single layer of tracheides , to the outside of the protoxylem-gap .
1 less perfectly preserved specimens the wood has often broken away altogether , lly the pith is left in position .
later-formed tracheides were reticulated or scalariform .
)re going further , it will be well to describe shortly the quadrangular type of for much of what remains to be said applies equally to both forms , the four-cornered steal the pith shows precisely the same structure as in the tlready described ( see Plate 80 , fig. 25 , and Plate 74 , photograph 14 ) .
At each there is a vascular bundle , with a well-marked intercellular , space at its inner n. In this space the remains of the protoxylem-elements can be detected , 3 in the previous type .
There is no reason to suppose , in this case , that more one bundle was present at each corner .
The somewhat peculiar form of the in the beautiful specimen from which Photograph 14 was taken has already been id. e structure of the xylem is identical with that in the triquetrous form.t In the i referred to in the footnote it will be noticed that the two bundles on the left no spaces at their internal edge , but are solid strands of tracheides .
In the text 3 memoir cited , | it is pointed out that this part of the section approached a node , matter of fact , we have always found , in both types of cylinder , that the inter-ar spaces come to an end at the stevile nodes , but are continued without ruption through the nodes at which the sporangiophores are borne .
This is one 16 points in which the sterile , or bract-nodes , of Calamostachys resemble the lary nodes of Calamites ( see Plate 81 , fig. 28 , which shows the structure at a le node ) .
he structure and arrangement of the vascular bundles are well described , from independent meBS\gt ; hy Mr , T. Hick , ' Proceedings of the Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society , vol. 12 , See Williamson , " Organization , " Part XV .
, Plate 2 , fig. 7 .
P-160 .
5 z 2 906 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE At the bractigerous nodes we also find a girdle of short reticulated trachei reproducing , on a small scale , the structure of a typical Calamitean node ( see Hat fig. 28 , also photograph 10 , on Plate 73 ) .
The bundles which pass out to the whorl of bracts leave the cylinder with obliquely upward course , but soon become perfectly horizontal .
These bundles^ very seldom be traced through the cortex , for they are usually broken away , in^e region where the inner cortical tissue has perished .
In one or two cases , howeE the continuity is perfect .
The fertile nodes , at which the sporangiophores were inserted , show scarcely^ modification of structure , as compared with the intemodes .
Here the bundles out at a right angle , but are very seldom preserved throughout their whole corse The node through which the section shown in Plate 80 , fig. 23 , was taken , bore svei sporangiophores .
It will be noticed that while the steal , as .
a whole , has an obtsel triangular section , the xylem shows seven small projecting points in the figre To these were attached the bundles of the seven sporangiophores ; the bundle asp is partly preserved .
It is not possible to give any regular scheme for the longitudinal course of theea trace bundles in Calamostachys , for , as we have seen , the number of bundles ii tl axis bears no constant relation to the number of lateral appendages in a whorl .
\\ may , however , point out that the bundles appear to have passed up the axisin straight line , and not to have alternated in successive internodes ( see Plai 8 fig. 28 ) .
From what has been already said there can be little doubt that the structure \gt ; ti bundles was collateral .
For a long time , however , direct evidence of thii w wanting , for in nearly all cases the whole tissue between the wrood and the sciroi outer cortex has perished .
In one instance , however , we have found these tsu completely preserved at one side of the axis ( see Plate 80 , fig. 26 ) .
It is igh probable that here the group of small delicate cells , represents the phloem , m* the larger thin-walled cells further to the exterior belong to the inner cofix , rather perhaps to the pericycle .
In some specimens the primary tissues already described are alone present .
however , a well-marked zone of secondary wood is added , as has been fully explaiea previous memoirs* ( see Plate 80 , fig. 24 ) .
The secondary xylem is both fasciculi ' a interfascicular ; it consists mainly of scalariform tracheae , with a few parenchyiatf rays between them .
The radial arrangement of the elements is sufficiently r^giar leave no doubt of their origin from a cambium ; the secondary wood may atau thickness of eight or more cells .
In some specimens the growth in thickness had evidently stopped short at t early stage , when only a few tangential divisions had taken place in the interfas cu * Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 10 , \amp ; c. ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
907 ' ee Plate 74 , photograph 14 , Plate 80 , figs. 23 and 25 ) .
Manifestly , the amount \gt ; ndary growth in thickness in the axis of the strobilus was relatively small constant , just as we know to be the case in the peduncles of Dicotyledons at .esent day .
The formation of secondary wood in many cases , however , is sufficient to prove that the mode of growth was essentially similar to that amites .
cortex of the axis of the strobilus needs no detailed description .
Its outer which in most cases are alone preserved , consist of thick-walled elongated cften prosenchymatous in form .
When portions of the inner cortex are ^d , its cells are similar to those of the more external layers in form , but have rails .
It is possible that this inner layer should be referred to the pericycle .
, cannot undertake to determine the limits of these tissues with accuracy ( see 73 , photographs 10-13 , Plate 74 , photograph 14 ; Plate 81 , fig. 27 , where only ier layers are shown ) .
epidermis consists of small cells , often with rather thick walls ; we were not a prove the presence of stomata , but it is quite possible that they existed , pecimens rarely have their epidermis so well preserved as the more internal 5 .
, e Bracts .
3 .
Appendages of the Axis .
general arrangement of the whorled bracts has been already described .
Ihe int part of the whorl , or disc , is traversed by vascular bundles equal in cr to the free limbs of the bracts , into each of which one of the bundles runs see Plate 73 , photographs 11 and 12 ; also Plate 81 , figs. 30 and 32 ) .
As a my the small xylem-strand of the foliar bundle is preserved this lies within Lpty space , from which the soft tissue has perished .
Sometimes a part of this issue is preserved , and then we find it on the lower side of the xylem .
It thus rs that the bundles were normally collateral , as we should expect , e mesophyll of the coherent disc usually shows a marked differentiation , rds the upper surface it consists chiefly of thick-w'alled sclerenchymatous i. Its lower portion is composed of more parenchymatous cells , with widei ia , and usually thinner walls .
Next the lower epidermis we find a small-celled dermal layer .
The epidermis on both surfaces has small cells , and is seldom well preserved , so that here also the question of stomata must be left open .
iere are many variations in detail in different specimens ; sometimes the whole e of the coherent region is comparatively thin-walled ( see Plate 81 , fig. 30 ) , " times , on the other hand , the parenchyma , as well as the fibrous tissue , is iderablv thickened ( see Plate 73 , photographs 10 and 11 ) .
In some cases a strand , peeially thick-walled sclerenchyma follows the course of each vascular bundle on upper side ( photograph 11 ) .
Certain large parenchymatous cells towards the lower surface often contain dense masses of carbonaceous matter , which may rea some secretion formed during life .
As the outer edge of the coherent disc is approached , we find that its upper surv becomes undulated , as seen in tangential section .
Each elevation of fig ^ \#151 ; surW corresponds to the position of one of the free bracts , which here begin to sepa [ from each other .
The free portions of the bracts , as already stated , are of ga| length .
They gradually taper off towards their tips , and their structure undergo , a corresponding simplification .
In its lower region the free part of a bract is composed of the same tissues asu found in the coherent disc , arranged in the same manner .
The secretory sao ( if that is their real nature ) are especially conspicuous in this part .
The uoer extremity of the bract consists of sclerenchyma only , through which the fine vasdai bundle can be traced for some distance .
The free bracts are shown in longitudinal section in Plate 73 , photograph 10 me in transverse section in photographs 12 and 13 .
In Plate 74 , photograph 14 , m , of them are also shown in oblique superficial view .
It need scarcely be pointed out again that the whole of the highly differentte\lt ; bract-system , so characteristic of fossil Calamarian fructifications , has nothing clirl corresponding to it among existing Eq In this fact we have a strum illustration of the general rule , that the Palaeozoic Cryptogams known to us , wei fa more highly organized plants than their allies which are living in the present ag B. The Sporangi The general form of the peltate sporangiophores , and their relation to theixi have been described above .
The pedicel consists of a zone of somewhat sclrot cortical tissue , enclosing a single vascular bundle ( see Plate 73 , photograpl 1 and 13 ; Plate 81 , figs. 29 and 30 ) .
Immediately below the peltate expansiu , head , which terminates the sporangiophore , the pedicel becomes broader , anche the vascular bundle forks into two branches , which lie in the same horizontal ; au Each of the branch-bundles forks again , and the four ultimate ramifications rt o to the bases of the four sporangia , which are placed diagonally at the margin ( tl peltate head ( see Plate 81 , figs. 29 and 32 ) .
The parenchyma of the peltate p*ti\gt ; is thin-walled ; the free external surface and edges are covered by a very ckra teristic layer of elongated , palisade-like , epidermal cells .
This palisade-layer isve delicate , and is rarely perfectly preserved ; it is best shown in a specimen figuxl a former memoir % ( see also Plate 73 , photograph 13 ; in Plate 81 , fig. 29 , *\gt ; n fragments of this layer are shown ; in the tangential section , Plate 81 , fig. 3 .
| layer is evident ) .
The general outline of the peltate expansion of the sporangiophore , as sen * Williamson , " Organization , " Part XV .
, Plate 2 , fig. 8 ( C.N. 1000 ) .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
909 *ntial section of the strobilus , was square , probably somewhat lobed , with ions between the insertions of the sporangia ( Plate 81 , fig. 32 ) .
sporangia were attached to the edge of the peltate head , at its four corners , its lower side .
Each sporangium is connected with the sporangiophore by a neck of tissue only , through which the vascular bundle passes , to end at the the sporangium itself ( see Plate 81 , fig. 29).* The palisade-layer extends e short stalk of the sporangium on its outer side , its cells becoming shorter id appears to have been continuous with the sporangium-wall .
Sporangia .
sporangium has the form of a somewhat elongated sac ; its long axis is to the pedicel of the sporangiophore , and is therefore radial to the axis ' of ibilus .
As seen in tangential section the sporangia are approximately square , ost instances , the sporangium , as preserved in our specimens , has a wall which sell only in thickness .
Remains of tissue lining the inside of this persistent .re frequent , but only show structure in exceptional cases , to be considered ly .
cells of the sporangial wall are lozenge-shaped , as seen in surface view , their ses being parallel to the major axis of the sporangium ( Plate 81 , fig* 31 , A ) , ateral walls are thin , but are stiffened by vertical plates , which pioject , like ses , from the cell-wall , and correspond to one another in adjacent cells .
These sses are broadest at the base , i.e. , where they abut on the-inner cell-wall , next rity of the sporangium ( fig- 31 , A and B ) .
In a tangential section of the whole as , which gives a transverse section of the sporangium , the cells of the wall are 'oss , so that we see the buttresses on either side of each vertical septum ( fig* 31 , n transverse or radial sections of the strobilus , however , which give longitudinal is of the sporangia , the cells of the wall are cut lengthwise .
In this case the r edges of the buttresses are seen , so that the vertical septa appear to be much mmerous than they really are ( fig- 31 , C ) .
The actual cell-walls are seidorn fell in this view , no doubt because they are usually cut obliquely .
The mode of suing of the cell-membranes of the sporangial wall bears a considerable resemblance t of the " fibrous layer " of some anthers , and may very probably have discharged ime function , that of effecting dehiscence .
certain cases a layer of thin-walled tissue , two or three cells in thickness , is found l the whole or part of the sporangial wall ( Plate 82 , fig. 35 ) .
One is tempted at to regard this layer as a persistent tapetum , but the inconstancy of its occurrence , in the most perfectly preserved specimens , and its very variable thickness when nt , are scarcely consistent with such a view .
In other instances the entire * See also Williamson , " Organization , " Part XI .
, Plate 54 , fig. 23 ( C.N. 1017 ) .
PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON TH\#174 ; sporangium appears to be filled with parenchymatous tissue.* These apparetw parenchymatous sporangia are sometimes associated in the same strobilus with oti which show the lining tissue only.t It is a question whether such sporangia are ever really filled with tissue , or when the sections may nob in these cases be tangential to the sporangium , so as to through the lining layer , without reaching the spores within .
This is a possible w but we do not think that all these instances can be thus explained .
The spora , i with parenchymatous contents cannot represent a normal early stage of develops for they occur side by side with others in which the spores are fully formed , an which there is often no trace even of the lining tissue .
On the whole we are disp^c to regard all the structures in question as representing more or less comply abortive sporangia in which either the whole , or the outer portion only , ofth spotogenous tissue has remained sterile .
This view is supported by the relate !
small size of those sporangia which appear to be completely filled with parenchyma tissue .
D. The Spores .
It has long been known that the spores of are often found assoc te together in tetrads , each tetrad being enclosed within a common membrane , whia doubtless the wall of the mother-cell .
Cases of this kind have been figured in pre ot memoirs , J and have also been observed and figured by M. Renault in lie fructifications .
S The latter author lays great stress on the arrangement of theseel in tetrads , regarding this fact as an argument for the bodies in question being o ti nature of pollen-grains , rather than spores .
|J In Calamostachys Binneyana , at any rate , there is no ground for such a view , fc ti spores certainly did not remain associated in tetrads when mature .
Isolated stop are just as common as tetrads , and sometimes occur together with them ii tl same sporangium ( see Plate 81 , fig. 33 ) , while in other cases the whole sporarriu is occupied by isolated spores .
H The separation of the sister-spores from one arth must have taken place relatively late , but it certainly happened before maturity We have paid special attention to the spore-tetrads , which are shown on vio scales , in Plate 81 , fig. 33 , and Plate 82 , fig. 34 .
In some cases the group oifo spores is perfectly normal , all four being of approximately equal size ( fig. 3 i Very often , however , the spores of the same tetrad are of extremely unequal due * * * S * An example of this has been previously figured ; see Williamson , " Organization , " Part X. , P|te fig. 18 .
f As is the case , for example , in C.N. 1008 , and 1898 A. + Williamson , Organization , " Part V. , Plate 7 , fig. 43 , Part X. , Plate 15 , fig. 17 .
S E.g. in his BrucJcmannia Grand'Euryi , 'Ann .
Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ' Ser. 6 , vol. 3 , Plate 3 , tig- 7 .
|| ' Oomptes Rendus , ' vol. 102 , March 15 , 1886 .
.([ See Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 6 , fig. 7 ( C.N. 989 ) .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
911 the diameter of the smallest sister-cell being often scarcely a quarter that of igest Sometimes three out of the four remain quite small , and occasionally an tetrad seems to have been abortive ( see the figures cited ; in fig. 34 , B and C , )0re in each tetrad is of relatively minute size ) .
, h very minute spores are also frequently found , among the normal ones , in igia in which the spores are already isolated from one another .
If these latter stood alone , we might have doubted whether the small spores were not foreign i .
their presence , however , as members of the tetrads , within the mother-cell-proves conclusively that they are really sister-cells which have remained behind thers in their development .
The phenomenon is extremely frequent , as is 3ntly indicated by the figures .
do not think there is any reason to doubt that four spores were regularly 1 within each mother-cell , as is constantly the case in all recent vascular ogams .
It seems , however , to have been the exception for all four to be y developed .
3 frequent abortion of many of the spores in a sporangium , so frequent that we b but regard it as a normal process , seems to us to be a fact of extreme interest , cannot doubt that Calamostachys Binneyana was a homosporous form .
The number of specimens available for investigation , many of them including all of the strobilus , establishes the strongest presumption that macrospores must been found , if they existed .
\lt ; know , however , that the closely similar species , C. Gasheana , was hetero-js , its microspores not being very different in size from the normal spores of nneyana .
When we come to describe the heterosporous species , we shall find reason to believe that in its macrosporangia a constant abortion of some of the i went on .
3 would suggest the hypothesis that the abortion of certain of the spores , and ionsequent increased nutrition of their surviving fellows , may have been the ological condition which ultimately rendered possible the development of alized macrospores .
e know that among existing heterosporous vascular Cryptogams the abortion , r of the majority of the mother-cells ( Ligulatse ) , or , in addition , that of the '-cells of the macrospore ( Bhizocarpese ) , is a constant accompaniment of the ired development of the surviving spore or spores .
e know also that in Bquisetum , which is homosporous , but in which the prothalli 'egularly dioecious , it depends upon the nutrition whether a spore develops into le or female prothallus .
The better fed prothalli become female , the worse fed , i Hi 1 Calamostachys we have the intermediate conditions .
In C. Binneyana we find * beginning of spore-abortion , involving improved nutrition of the surviving spores .
Buchtien , " Entwickelung des Prothalliums von Equisetum , 'n ' Bibliotheca Botanica , 1887 , bCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 6 A In C. Casheana , the same process , carried further in certain sporangia , has led the formation of specially favoured macrospores , to which , as we may presum production of a female prothallus was entrusted .
Even in C. Casheana , howe* the heterospory is not so extreme as in some other Cryptogams , for numerous ma spores are still developed in each sporangium , and their diameter is only about th times that of the microspores .
We suggest then , that in Calamostachys we have a genus in which the first rieof the phenomenon of heterospory can be traced .
That the same phenomenon w independently in various groups of vascular Cryptogams , has long been recognizee We have found no evidence in C. Binneyana for the existence of a cellular kli within the spore , such as M. Renault believes to be present in the spores of this nc other species .
One of us ( D. H. Scott ) has had the advantage , through the kinoes of M. Renault , of seeing some of the preparations in question , but was not convfeet that the structure within the spore was really cellular .
Compared , for example , with the cellular mass in the pollen-grain of Cordaitt , a shown in M. Renault 's classical preparations , the appearances in the spores appeared very doubtful .
In our own specimens , the endosporium has usall contracted away from the exosporium .
When the endosporium and its content ai much shrivelled , an appearance resembling a cellular structure is sometimes proebe* but such appearances are quite inconstant , and are , we believe , illusory .
In the mature spores of Calamostachys Binneyana we often observe three radiiii cracks at one pole , such as are so frequently seen in the spore-membranes of ieei Cryptogams .
Between these cracks three well-defined brown masses can usua^ 1 detected .
In sectional views of the spore we find that these bodies are attack !
the inner surface of the spore-membrane ( see Plate 81 , fig. 33 ; Plate 82 , fig. 3,1 Other specimens proved that the attachment is to the exosporium .
We regard lie masses as local thickenings of the cell-wall , not by any means as distinct cells .
Before discussing further the affinities of Calamostachys Binneyana , it wl necessary to take into consideration the structure of the other forms which wena examined .
Calamostachys Casheana .
Will .
The heterosporous form of Calamostachys was originally described in 1880* bn specimen found at Halifax .
In this specimen three whorls of sporangia are no in the obliquely tangential section .
The uppermost whorl shows microspcan ; only ; in the lowest , only macrosporangia are found , while the intermediated contains both kinds intermixed .
The general habit of the specimen is very similar to that of C. Binneyana * Williamson , " Organization , " Part II .
, p. 298 ; Plate 54 , fig. 24 ( C.N. 1024 and 1025 ) .
^ has also established the existence of heterospory in Annularia longifolia , Bbongn .
nn .
^ Bot. , ' ser. 5 , vol. 18 , 1873 .
( Also in * Course de Botanique Fossile , ' vol. 2 , 1882 , p. 12b .
) iiGANlZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
913 it , was at first regarded as identical- Subsequently the species Casheana tablished for the heterosporous form.* rt from the heterospory , there are some slight differences between the species , in C Binneyana both bracts and sporangiophores .
stand out exactly at a right with the axis , in C. Casheana they seem to have been placed rather obliquely , r slightly upwards .
Further , in a tangential section of C. Casheana , passing .h the sporangia , the bracts are beginning to separate from one another ; is in similar sections of C. Binneyana , they form a perfectly coherent disc .
It \#166 ; s then , that the coherent portion of the bracts did not extend so far in the sporous as in homosporous species ( see Plate 74 , photograph 15 ) .
These nces , however , are very slight , and it is certainly a most striking fact that 5 so nearly alike in general characters should exhibit so important a physiological stion as that between homospory and heterospory .
3cond specimen of C. Casheana , obtained from the Strinesdale Pit , Saddle worth , ^re recently been discovered .
Two sections have been cut of the strobilus , the ngential ( Plate 74 , photograph 15 ) , the other transverse ( photograph 16 ) .
The .
shows parts of three verticils of sporangiophores ; the highest and lowe t Is show macrosporangia only ; the intermediate whorl , also contains a single iporangium , which is borne on the same sporangiophore with three macro-Lgia ( photograph 15 , also Plate 82 , fig. 38 ) .
The relative size of the microspores acrospores agrees exactly with that in the former specimen , i.e. , the diameter of acrospores is , on the average , just three times that of the microspores .
The ite dimensions of both are perhaps a trifle smaller than in the original specimen , le difference is insignificant .
) transverse section of this strobilus ( C.N. 1588 , Plate 74 , photograph 16 ; Plate 82 , 6 ) is very interesting .
The section passes through macrosporangia only ; \gt ; edicels of the sporangiophores are cut obliquely , which agrees with their ling direction , as shown in the other specimen.t 3 structure of the axis is extremely well shown , and agrees exactly with that of nneyana .
The axial cylinder , or steal , is of the obtusely triquetrous form , and somewhat sclerotic pith .
The arrangement of the vascular bundles agrees that of the homosporous species .
Traces of the protoxylem-groups are found e usual position , namely within irregular gaps on the inner side of the vasculai les , of which there seem to have been six altogether .
te most interesting point , however , is that the axis has a well-marked zone of idary wood ( see fig. 36 ) ; the radial arrangement of its elements is such as to * no doubt as to their origin .
We thus find in this specimen the direct proof secondary growth in thickness co-existed with heterospory : in other words the * Williamson , in 4 Report of the British Association for 1886 .
' t C.N. 1024 .
See Williamson , loc. oit .
, Part XL , Plate 54 , fig. 24 .
specimen is , by itself , sufficient to prove the occurrence of seco in an undoubted Cryptogam .
It is probable that no botanists any longer dispute the conclusion that seconc-growth by means of cambium may take place in Cryptogams as well as in flowed plants , or that in the Carboniferous epoch , most families of vascular Cryptog^ exhibited this phenomenon .
The " petitio of Brongniart 's school , " * w.cu for so long a time was accepted by many leaders of botanical opinion , is no lo#er maintained .
Evidence so direct and convincing as that afforded by this specitm 0f the hetorosporous Calamostachys is , however , sufficiently rare to be of quite spial interest .
Some remains of the thin-walled tissue which surrounded the wood are preseied .
but , as is usually the case , very imperfectly .
The outer cortex , on the other bid , is perfect , and has the same structure as in C. , the cells becoming smiler and more sclerotic towards the periphery .
The details of structure of the bracts , the sporangiophores , and the sporangmi-wall agree so closely with the corresponding features in the homosporous species hat no special description is called for .
The Spores .
ndary formation of We have already ( p. 911 ) referred to the small , presumably abortive spores , fond in the macrosporangia , among the macrospores .
Their dimensions are very variable but they are always much smaller even than the microspores of the same strobilujjj^ Sw figs. 37 and 39 , which are from different specimens .
) They are very similar t thi abortive spores described above , in the case of A never found the tetrad stage in C.Casheana there was no possibility of tramps origin of these minute spores .
They occur , without exception , in every sporangium of both specimens , and are often found in large numbers , ( bee fi !
B and C ; fig. 39 .
) We have never found them in the microsporangia .
For lies-reasons we think it out of the question that the minute spores can be foreign Mi\#174 ; We regard them as being , in all probability , undeveloped sister-cells of the macrospres the latter having attained their large dimensions at the expense of their ill-noush\#174 ; companions , \#163 ; .
We desire especially to call attention to the fact that we find no signs of oorc abortion in the microsporangia .
Here all the spores appear to develop equa\#174 ; l a uniform small size is attained ( about *075 millim. in diameter ) .
In the homospM species , C. Binneyana , where some of the spores are abortive , the survivors somewhat greater dimensions , about *09 millim. in diameter .
As regards the structure of the spores , we have little to add to t e pr^ description above cited .
Apart from the difference m size , there is a c ose si * Solms , ' Fossil Botany , ' p. 330 and 341 .
ORGANIZATION O THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
915 \#166 ; Eterospores and microspores .
In both we find a thick exosporium , within nd somewhat separated from it , is a much more delicate membrane , which we the endosporium .
In the case of the macrospores , the exosporium is often .
t flattened at the surfaces of contact of the rather closely packed spores , i the endosporium , in both microspores and macrospores , is usually a relatively dark-coloured mass , probably representing the carbonized remains of the itents .
more recently discovered specimen is , in one respect , better preserved than the finally described .
In the latter , the endosporium is almost always somewhat led in the case of both micro- and macrospores .
In the former , the endo-n has usually retained a perfectly spherical form ; the exosporium , however , en , to some extent , split away from the inner layer .
aay be mentioned that in one or two cases the exosporium appeared to be so that , very probably , an episporial membrane was present , but .
cannot r be distinguished .
the case of the small abortive spores , associated with the macrospores , it was not e to distinguish the separate layers of the cell-wall .
Calamostachys , ?
\gt ; eeimen of Calamostachys from the Oldham Coal-Measures , shows a somewhat at habit from C. Binneyana ( see Plate 74 , photographs 17 and 18 ) .
Both and sporangiosphores have the same obliquely upward diiection which we ed in C. Casheana .
Five whorls of sporangiophores , with their sporangia , are t in the specimen .
The latter are filled with small spores ( not associated m s ) , which agree precisely in dimensions with the microspores of C. Casheana .
lossible that the specimen may belong to that species , the macrosporangia not preserved .
No certain conclusion , however , can be drawn , except that the len is at any rate not identical with C. Binneyana .
Affinities of Calamostachys .
e description given of the structure of the strobilus in the homosporous and the osporous species , leaves no doubt that both must have been the fructifications of narieae .
In view of the close agreement in structure which we have been able to .nstrate , the suggestion of M. Renault that while the heterosporous forms are msly cryptogamic , the others may represent the male flowers of seed-bearing ts , appears to us to be quite untenable .
le whorled appendages , the constant presence of a medulla , and of primary allary rays , and the collateral bundles with centrifugal xylem , form a combination haracters peculiar to the Calamariese among the known Cryptogams of the 916 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE Carboniferous epoch .
The arrangement and structure of the peltate sporai phores , so closely resembling those of Equisetum , are typical of Calamarkce indeed constitute the most essential characters on which that family has founded .
The question remains , however , to which , if any , of the known Calamarian st , did the Calamostachys fructifications belong ?
At present the question must rea ' open , for the only way of answering it with certainty , would be to find stenm strobilus in connection , and this has not yet been done in the case of the spy in question .
So far as the anatomical evidence is concerned , there is no reason why astrobis the Calamostachys type should not have been borne on the stem of a Calamite , u. as we have described in the first part of this paper .
The differences in structur a no greater than we should be prepared to find between the axis of a fructificatiua : a vegetative stem , and no greater than we actually do find between brands different order in one and the same species of Equisetum .
In some points , such as the presence of an intercellular space at the protoxylem of each bundl a the structure of the nodal wood , the agreement is even surprisingly close .
We have , however , to take account of the fact that a fructification of a dh .
type has been proved , in previous memoirs , to have been that of a 1 first specimen of this fructification was described in 1869.* Long subsequently !
) and more complete specimens were discovered , and a full account of the whole str-t was laid before the Royal Society in 1887.1 We have re-examined the specimen the purposes of the present paper , but , except in one point , have nothing to d\lt ; the previous descriptions .
A summary , however , of the facts relating to this fructification must be give ; !
] for the sake of comparison with the structure of Calamostachys .
The strobilus of the " Calamitean " fructification was pedunculate , and consist\#171 ; an axis bearing numerous whorls of bracts , which were coherent for some difca from their insertion , the coherent part forming the " disk " of previous descrin The bracts after leaving the axis at a right angle , or with a slightly dovut curvature , turned sharply upwards , their superior portions becoming approxua parallel to the axis .
The sporangiophores were borne at the base* of the coherent bracts , on thenu ] surface , and were thus very nearly axillary .
They numbered sixteen , twenty in a whorl ; their direction was obliquely upward .
The number of theot seems to have been double that of the sporangiophores .
^ Each sporangiophore bore four sporangia , though it is not quite certain thk number was absolutely constant .
They surround the pedicel of the sporangiopW * Williamson , 'Mem .
Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Manchester , Series 3 , vol. 4 .
t t Williamson , " Trne Fructification of Catami " ( " Organization , " Part XIV .
) ; flnl .
vol. 179 , B. ORGANIZATION OP THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
917 imostaphys .
As no peltate expansion is preserved in the specimens , there is lence as to the mode of attachment of the sporangia .
angential sections the sporangia have an elongate , oblong form , thus differing lose of Calamostachys , which appear square in the corresponding view .
This ice , however , seems to depend only on the oblique position of the sporangia in Mamitean " fructification .
sporangial wall resembled that of Calamostachys in structure .
The spores are ipproximately equal size , and average *075 millim. in diameter .
As sections Lit from all parts of several strobili , including their bases , it is not probable that porangia , if they had existed , could have been missed .
anatomy of the peduncle is exactly that of a young stem of as above ed. The pith is fistular , only the peripheral zone being persistent .
The wedge-bundles , sixteen to twenty in number , form a ring .
Each bundle has a canal nner margin .
We have been able to prove that here , as in the vegetative if Calamites , the canal contains the remnants of the protoxylem of the bundle , ptudinal sections the spiral thickenings of the primitive tracheides in the canal easily seen.* ndary wood , distinguished by the radial seriation of its elements , was formed peduncle just as in the vegetative stem .
In fact the peduncle agrees in every t with the typical vegetative axis of a young specimen of Calamites .
axis of the strobilus has essentially the same structure as that of the peduncle , ch it is the prolongation .
The number of the bundles , which is equal to that of orangiophores , remains constant .
Their structure is unaltered , except that , as eend the axis , we leave the secondary wood behind .
At the nodes the ; ement of the tracheides is .
identical with that in Calamites .
The bundles er show a slight difference in their arrangement .
In the peduncle they are stant from one another ; in the axis of the strobilus they become approximated rs .
The cortex contains a ring of large cavities , half as numerous as the bundles , Iternating in position with the bundle-pairs .
These cavities , which recall the ecular canals " of Equisetum , are best seen at the nodes , where the cortical sare best preserved .
w there can be no doubt that this remarkable fructification , specimens of which ^fortunately extremely rare , is that of a Calamites .
If the peduncle were found it could not be distinguished from the stem , of corresponding a^e , a typical ropitoid Calamite . . .
" e wish to call attention to the very close resemblance between this strobrlus o mites , and that described by M. Renault under the name of , placed by Count Solms-Laubach in Weiss 's genus t In the N. 1569 and 1573 .
Renault , ' Ann. Sci. Not , , Bot. , ' Ser. 6 , vol. 3 , Plate 2 ; also ' Course de Bot. Fossile , ' vol. 2 ; Solms , sil Botany , ' p. 332 .
latter specimen the relative position of the bracts and sporangiophores is all t identical with that in the English fossil .
The chief differences are that the bracts Palceostachya gracilis are less extensively coherent , and that the insertion of \#166 ; sporangiophores is more exactly axillary , and less adherent to the bracts themsel In both plants the number of the bracts is double that of the sporangiophores .
The anatomy of the stem in Palceostachya , as shown in M. Hena^ ' figures , has quite a Calamitean character .
The medulla is fistular , and the vasca bundles are accompanied by their usual canals .
The number of the bundles here m is equal to that of the sporangiophores .
In M. Renault 's plant the peltate scales are perfectly preserved ; their strucire and the mode of attachment of the sporangia are manifestly the same a \v Calamostachys .
The character of the genus Palceostachya , as defined by Weiss , is as follows : " Sporangiophores arising from the axil of the bract , or its immediate neighbour \#187 ; od ascending obliquely .
As this definition applies both to the Calamitean fructification of WiLLiAMSONam to the Volkmannia gracilis of Renault , we may speak of this type as the form of fructification .
As however the English specimens are so obviously stroM c Calamites , we do not propose to give them a distinct generic name , but to distirpis them as Calamites pedunculates , which is thus the equivalent of the " true fructifietio of Calamites , " described in previous memoirs .
We have now to discuss this question : Are the differences betweei ti Calamostachys and the Palceostachya types of strobilus so great that they canno:ia ' belonged to closely allied plants ?
The essential differences are two : ( 1 ) in the position of the sporangiophores , bii are approximately axillary in the Palceostachya type , but are inserted midway bewei the whorls of bracts in Calamostachys ; ( 2 ) in the anatomy of the axis , wh .
completely Calamitean in the Palceostachya strobilus , while CoJamosiachys difii the small number of vascular bundles , and in its relatively small persistent pitb A form described by M. Renault under the name of iui ( the Calamostachys Grand'Euryi of Weiss 's nomenclature ) seems to bridge ow t gap in a very satisfactory manner .
+ In this species the arrangement of the son giophores is exactly that of a typical Calamostachys they form independent m inserted midway between the verticils of bracts .
Their structure , also , is pit* with that of the sporangiophores of C. Binneyana .
The anatomy of \#166 ; \#166 ; 1 however , is that of a Calamite .
The medulla is large and fistular ; the bundles surrounding it have well-defined canals .
It appears , then , that in thip ; )\#171 ; the external morphology of Calamostachys co-existed with an anatomical stict identical with that of Calamites or Palceostachya .
* *Steinkolilen-Calamarien , ' vol. 2 , 1884 , p. 161 .
t Renault , * Ann. Soi .
Not .
, Bot. , ' S6r .
6 , vol. 3 .
Plates 3 and 4 .
iew then of the fact that a renewed examination of Calamostachys Binneyana ided to show that its anatomy is much more similar to that of Catamites than rmerly supposed , while another species of the genus has an exactly Calamitean ire we think that the relation of our British species of Calamostachys to nay well have been a close one .
It is even possible that some of the stems which \gt ; even described under the general name of , may have been those on Calamostachys fructifications were borne.# Beyond this we cannot go , until ce of continuity has been produced .
We know for certain that the Palceo-a type of strobilus was that of a Calamite , as is proved by the case of Catamites nilatus ; it is possible that fructifications of the Catamostachys type may have ed to other Calamitean stems .
solution of the problem must await further evidence .
III .
SPHENOPHYLLUM .
genus Sphenophyttum , Brongniart , is characterized externally by its comparaslender , articulated stems , bearing verticillate leaves , the number of which in dion is always some multiple of 3 , as 6 , 9 , 12 , 18 , or even more .
The leaves of sive verticils are superposed , not alternate .
In the species on which the genus mnded ( such as Sphenophytlum Schlotheimii , Brongn .
, and S. emarginatum , in .
) , the sessile leaves are cuneate , widening rapidly from a narrow base , and ^ an entire or toothed anterior margin .
From the form of such leaves as these ; nus derived its name .
In other species , however , the leaf is repeatedly divided ichotomous manner , into narrow segments , as in S. , Stur .
In s , again , as in S. ptuvifoliatum , Wii/ l. , one of the species which we are about to be , the leaves are linear .
3 forms with deeply divided , or with linear leaves , cannot always be distinguished , eir external characters alone , from Asterophyttites , to which genus the species \gt ; to be described were originally referred , t Happily the anatomy Of several nbted species of Sphenophyllum is now well known , J and agrees in all essentials that of our own specimens , which have already been transferred to that gen us .
S is said that the finely divided foliage may occur on the lower portions of the stems which bear cuneate leaves above .
|| This has been compared with the h* .
T. Hick , in His paper above cited ( see p. 905 ) arrives at substantially the same conclusion ; loo . .
291 .
Williamson , " Organization , " Parts " V " .
and IX .
Chiefly through the researches of M. Renault , ' Ann. Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ' Ser. 5 , vol. 18 , 1873 , and Ser. 6 , 51877 ; also ' Course de Bot. Fossile , ' vols .
2 and 4 .
Williamson , ' General , Morphological , and Histological Index , ' Part 2 , p. 3 , 1893 .
^ ^ jOemans et Kickx , " Monographic des Sphenophyllum d'Europe , " 4 Bull , de 1 Acad. Roy .
de Belgique , 2 , vol. 18 , 1864 .
DCCCXCIV.----B .
920 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE arrangement of the leaves in the heterophyllous species of Ranunculus , of the sn genus Batrachium .
Several authors have inferred that Sphenophyllum was of or at least semi-aquatic habit .
The anatomy , however , as other authors have alrea\gt ; pointed out , # lends no support to such a view , for in all cases the xylem is extreme well developed , whereas its reduction is one the most constant characteristics S aquatic plants .
The species which we are about to consider are three in number : ( 1 .
) Sphenophyllum plurifoliatum , identical with the Asterophyllites spheh phylloides of Williamson ( Parts 5 and 9 ) .
This includes the Oldham specimens .
( 2 .
) Sphenophyllum insigne , the Asterophyllites insignis of the memoirs ah ?
e cited .
To this the Burntisland specimens belong .
In these two we know only vegetative organs .
( 3 .
) Sphenophyllum Dawsoni .
This is the Bowmanites Dawsoni of prevug memoirs , t and the Volhmannia Dawsoni of Binney .
The specimens of this form re , with one exception , limited to the fructifications .
We will begin with the Oldham species , S. , which , in its intern ] structure , agrees most nearly with the species described by other authors .
1 .
Sphenophyllum plurieoliatum , nobis .
Although this form has not been identified with any of the species know as impressions , yet the fragments showing structure are sufficient to give also a geaiai idea of the external morphology .
^ The stems are conspicuously jointed with somewhat tumid nodes .
J The internes are of considerable , length , amounting to about 1 centim. m one of our specimns , ; which shows two nodes , but no doubt much more in others .
In no case is a complete whorl of leaves preserved ; judging , however , rou specimens such as C.N. 874 , || in which the bases of 6 leaves are shown , the ota number in the verticil could not have been less than 18 , and may reached 24 .
The leaves are sometimes preserved for a considerable part ot i length , exceeding that of the internode .
They remain linear in form through\#174 ; , .
far as can be seen , and there is no distinct evidence for their dichotomizing , tlug they may have done so at some considerable distance from the base.f The cortex of the young stems , as shown in transverse sections , has a very c * See Solms , ' Fossil Botany , ' p. 344 .
f Williamson , " Organization , " Parts XVII .
and XVIII .
+ See Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 3 , fig. 15 , and Plate 1 , fig. \lt ; .
S C.N. 904 .
II Figured in Williamson , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 3 , fig. .
q See lais f\#187 ; er t JLZeiller has shown that truly linear leaves also occur aft ^foUwn , Sterne .
'Mem .
de la Soc. G6ol .
de France ; Pal\amp ; mtologie , ' Mem. 11 , p. 13 , 18 . .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
921 outline.* There are three sharp depressions , or furrows , which bear a B relation to the internal structure , each depression lying midway between two prominent angles of the triquetrous strand of primary wood .
The cortical is between the furrows are nearly flat .
This is the form in the internode ; close nodes , however , a secondary elevation is found in the middle of each furrow , t characteristic outline of the cortex agrees with that in several other species of yphyllum.\ It is only to be observed in the younger stems , for , as we shall see , Lole primary cortex soon becomes replaced by periderm , and cast off .
will now describe the anatomical structure .
Many points can be passed over r ag they have already been sufficiently dealt with in the previous memoirs cited .
Primary Structure , stem is traversed by a vascular cylinder or steal , the primary structure of is simple , though , for a stem , highly peculiar .
wood , as seen in transverse section , is triangular ; the sides of the triangle are hat concave , the angles are slightly truncated .
The xylem is a solid mass of ides ; there is no trace either of a medulla or of xylem-parenchyma .
The ides near the middle of the steal are pitted , and of large size , as we approach ree prominent angles we find that the size of the tracheides rapidly diminishes , heir walls have here scalariform thickening .
At the actual angles we find lated and spiral elements of very small diameter ( see Plate 83 , figs. 40 and 41)# can be no doubt that the tracheides at the angles are the primitive elements , oi cylem , and that the primary wood , constitutes a centripetal triarch strand a ur which is very unusual in stems , though so familiar in the case of roots .
5 angles of the triquetrous xylem are often blunt , though this is not always the We could not convince ourselves that more than a single group of protoxylem sent at each angle , though , in other species , there are undoubtedly tv o such \gt ; s , and the steal is then hexarch ( see Plate 76 , photograph 24 , from the Autun lophyllum ; also many figures in M. Renault 's works above cited ) , e wood is surrounded by a thin-walled tissue of considerable width , but in the S^est specimens , such as we are now describing , this zone is seldom well pre-d .
The cells near the wood are smaller than those more towards the exterior , san hardly be wrong in regarding the tissue immediately surrounding the wood , lloem ; the outer thin-walled region is , perhaps , best interpreted as a pericycle , tiich case we should take the commencement of the more peripheral thick-walled as the inner limit of the cortex .
It must , however , be remembered that , in the * See Williamson , loc. tit .
, Part V. , Plate 1 , fig. 1 , \amp ; ' .
t Williamson , loc. tit .
, Part V. , Plate 1 , fig. 4 .
J See Renault , loc. tit .
absence of developmental data , such delimitation of the tissues iV r , G uecessari1 arbitrary .
The thin-walled zone is very sharply marked off from the rather sclerotic cort The latter consists of somewhat elongated cells , which become narrower and me sclerenchymatous as the exterior is approached .
The structure of the epidermic not clear in any of our specimens.* The vascular system is strictly cauline ; it passes through the nodes without appreciable change of structure .
A single bundle entered each leaf ; from the anaky of other species of Sphenophyllum , it may be presumed that the foliar bundles w ?
e given off from the angles of the central strand .
The number of foliar bundles gin off ' at each node cannot have been less than eighteen.t It is possible that these have arisen from the subdivision , within the cortex , of a smaller number , hubs regards this species , such a conclusion is merely conjectural .
For the mode of branching of the stem , we have only the evidence of one je-paration .
J In this case a single branch evidently arose at the node ; its vascar cylinder was to all appearance given off from one of the angles of the steal of no main stem .
Secondary Changes .
In S. plurifoliatum , as in other species of the genus , a large amount of seconm ?
tissue , both wood and bast , was formed in the stem as growth proceeded .
We specimens with the secondary wood of every thickness , from a single layer of elennti up to thirty-seven such layers .
Some of the stages have already been figusdJ Others are illustrated in the photographs and figures accompanying the pren paper .
There is no break in the series , and , except for the changes involved in In secondary growth itself , the structure is the same in all .
Hence there is no dab that we are dealing with successive stages in the development of one and the \#174 ; plant .
The great extent of the secondary cortical tissues is a characteristic fesur of the genus .
We will begin our description with the secondary wood .
The radial seriation of the elements is in most cases remarkably regular ( sedb photographs on Plate 75 ; also Plate 83 , figs. 40-43 ) .
In one large specimei f( example , the rows are quite continuous throughout the secondary wood , which*ei attains a thickness of twenty-four elements ( photograph 21 ) .
The same is the^ in the specimen , a portion of which is shown , in transverse section , in photogip ?
f Here the maximum thickness of the wood is thirty-seven elements .
* For the details of primary structure , fust described , reference must be made to the Williamson above cited .
f See Williamson , loc. cit. , Part IX .
, Plate 21 , fig. 28 ( C.N. 908 ) .
+ O.N. 908 , see figure just cited .
S See Willtamson , loc. cit.s especially Part Y , ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
923 e other cases the regular seriation is disturbed by the presence of a more complete zone of smaller xylem-elements , at first suggesting the idea of an ring No such explanation however is admissible , for these small-celled are of very inconstant occurrence , and , when present , they by no means extend round the entire circumference .
Evidently the young wood-cells ent some additional subdivisions in these zones .
Beyond them , the regular series of large elements are resumed .
sionally these slight irregularities co-existed with a very unequal growth of the e sides of the stem .
Extreme cases of this kind have been previously figured.* axeessive irregularities are quite exceptional , and were no doubt due to some , tal interference with the normal growth .
structure of the secondary wood is highly characteristic .
The large elements , In transverse section appear nearly square , often with truncated corners , are e. Their radial walls are marked by numerous small pits ( see Plate 83 , 42 , 44 , and 44a ) of somewhat oval outline .
WRenthe wall is seen in section ars that these pits were bordered .
are also sometimes found on the tangential walls , but less constantly .
As 3 the structure of their walls , the secondary trachese are quite similar to those middle portion of the primary xylem , except that the latter are pitted equally surfaces ( see Plate 83 , figs. 40 and 41 ) .
ore important difference is the fact that the primary elements have pointed md are no doubt to be regarded as tracheides , while the secondary tracheae to form continuous tubes .
It is possible that the latter were really vessels , e evidence is insufficient to prove this .
e shall see that the supposed remains isverse walls are really of quite a different nature .
ween the corners of the tracheae we find parenchymatous cells , occupying ace left free by their truncated angles .
( See Plate 75 , photographs 20 and 22 ; late 83 , figs. 43 and 44a .
) Occasionally one such cell appears in the transverse n , in each space ; more often there is a little group of them , sometimes six or in number .
ery here and there the transverse section shows a radially placed cell , or a strand o or three such cells , side by side , passing between the tracheae , and uniting arenchymatous groups with one another .
a radial section we see that the thin-walled parenchymatous cells at the corners e tracheae , form longitudinal strands of considerable length , which are connected tervals by the radially elongated cells .
( See Plate 83 , figs. 44 and 44a .
) a tangential section of the wood , only the lenticular cross-sections of the ontal parenchymatous cells are seen , for none of them lie in a tangential plane . !
was these radial parenchymatous cells which M. Renault at one time regarded * Williamson , loc. dt .
, Part V. , Plate 2 , figs. II and 12 .
t See Williamson , loc. dt .
, Part V. , Plate 2 , fig. 13 .
924 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE as the remains of transverse walls in the tracheae , * a view which he has W abandoned in favour of the true explanation . !
The arrangement of the cells , two or three of which are often placed immed ' above one another ( see fig. 44 ) is quite inconsistent with the former view , which is ^ negatived by the fact that no such transverse markings are seen in a tangential sect^ It is important to notice that the radial cells in question do not , as a rule j , ' continuous radial series , and thus differ from the true medullary rays , such asir present in Sphenophyllum insigne .
( Compare Plate 83 , fig. 44 , with Plate 84 , fig ^ It must , however , be pointed out that the absence of continuous medullary ra^ not constant even in S. plurifoliatum .
In the outer layers of the secondary wd continuous radial tracts of parenchyma , sometimes several cells in breadth , make eir appearance .
( See Plate 75 , photograph 22 .
) The description given so far applies more especially to that part of the seconarv wood which is formed between the angles of the primary xylem ; we may term this.arl of the wood interfascicular , using this term for the tissue formed betweentb protoxylem-groups , in contradistinction to that which is formed opposite them fei the latter the term fascicular wood will be used .
The fascicular wood is sharply distinguished from the interfascicular , as set h transverse sections .
( See Plate 75 , photographs 19 , 20 , and 21 ; Plate 83 , fig|:3 This is due in the first place to the much smaller dimensions of the fascicular traaea The secondary wood is necessarily thinnest opposite the prominent angles of th primary xylem , for the general outline of the wood becomes circular as soa a secondary growth is established .
The number , both of tangential and radial sers i however , usually greater in the fascicular region , so the reduced size of the eleienl here is easily explained .
There is a general continuity of the concentric sers \lt ; xylem-elements all round the stem ; the fascicular cells have simply undergoneioa additional subdivisions .
The structure of the tracheae is the same in both re.on The most important distinction consists in the presence of continuous medullary ay from the first in the fascicular wood , while in the interfascicular region , theyonl appear , if at all , in the outer layers.^ The boundary between fascicular and ate fascicular wood is fairly sharp in the inner secondary zones ; the distiitio however tends to disappear in the outer part of the wood of very old stem : ( s\lt ; photograph 21 ) ; That the whole zone of wood , outside the triquetrous strand , is really secoilar has been sufficiently shown by M. Van Tieghem .
J In Sphenophyllum plurifohtw we are able to give the final proof , for in several of our specimens the cambiumtse * * Course de Botanique Fossile , ' vol. 2 , p. 99 , 1882 .
f 'Ann .
des .
Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ' S6rie 6 , vol. 4 , p. 297 , Plate 8 , figs. 2 and 4 , 1877 ( sic ) .
Botanique Fossile , ' vol. 4 , p. 8 , Plate C , fig. 4 , 1885 .
+ " Sir quelques points de l'Anatomie des Cryptogames Vasculaires .
Bull , de la Soo .
France , ' vol. 80 ( 1883 ) , p. 169 .
BGANIZATION of the fossil plants of THE COAL-MEASURES .
925 k t^e secondary tissues were formed , is well preserved .
It is especially in the section from which fig. 42 on Plate 83 was drawn , in which the ndence of the thin-walled tabular cambial-cells , with the radial series of fcry tracheae , is perfectly clear .
Other specimens in which the cambium is ed are illustrated in the photographs 19 and 20 on Plate 76 .
latively enormous amount of secondary cortical tissue was developed on the fide of the cambium ( Plate 75 ; Plate 83 , figs. 40 and 43 ) .
It is often b to distinguish , in transverse sections , between the true phloem , formed t from the cambium , and the internal periderms , which arose in abundance from .seated layers of phellogen .
The transverse section , shown in photograph 19 fig. 43 , is especially instructive .
Here the actual cambium is only partially ed ; immediately outside it the wide secondary cortex* begins .
At the place in fig. 43 , its maximum thickness was about 16 cells.t The radial series are ious throughout , and a general continuity with those of the wood can also be The inner zones of the secondary cortex consist of thin-walled cells ; each occupied by a carbonaceous mass ( omitted in the figure for the sake of clearness , sognizable in the photograph ) .
This carbonaceous matter may perhaps indicate iginal presence of abundant cell-contents .
The outer cortical layers are 1 of cells with much thicker walls , and without any considerable carbonaceous ts .
Between the two zones is a layer of somewhat flattened cells , with lie thin walls , which have sometimes broken down .
explanation which we propose for this structure is , that the inner zone is true a , formed directly by the cambium on its exterior surface , while the outer layers , hicker cell-walls , constitute an internal periderm .
The intermediate flattened would , in this case , be the phellogen , which must have arisen by the division of hemselves belonging to the secondary phloem-parenchyma .
This explanation also s well to the other preparations in which the secondary cortical tissues tiown , though the carbonaceous contents of the inner layers are not always it .
igitudinal sections show that the periderm consisted of short cells , in very ir series , while the inner tissue , presumably phloem , was composed of much r elements , possibly the sieve-tubes.^ In some specimens ( see photograph 22 ) the m-elements are less regularly arranged than those of the periderm , e development of periderm seems never to have been external , but to have ed , from the first , in deeply-seated tissues .
A good example of its first forma j is convenient to nse the general term " secondary cortex " for all secondary tissues externa t ( July 15 , 1894 .
) -Jj- ' ' ' .he thickness of the secondary cortical tissues is very unequal at different par so inference of the stem .
It often , but not always , shows a maximum opposite each of the t ree xylem groups .
5ee Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 1 , fig. 7 .
C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE tion is shown in a specimen previously figured , * in which a zone of radially a tissue , thin-walled at its inner edge , intervenes between the wood and the prj^ cortex* It is probable that this peridermal tissue arose from the divisic Of ftL belonging to the pericycle .
At any rate , the whole of the primary cortex outside this first-formed periderm , soon perished .
Its to remains , in various stage * disorganization , are found surrounding many of the more advanced stems ( 8ee| ' example , Plate 83 , fig. 40 , where only a part of the primary cortex is represent , '* Soon , however , the original periderm was itself replaced by more internal 1^ arising , as we have seen , from the secondary phloem-parenchyma .
The cW specimens had a regular scale-bark , formed by successive incomplete lay 0 periderm , cutting more and more deeply into the secondary cortical tissue^ photographs 22 , and more especially 23 , on Plate 75 ) .
At some places as may a five distinct peridermal masses can be traced , one outside the other .
Each of no \#171 ; masses consists of thick-walled cells towards its external side , and of very regarj arranged thin-walled tissue , towards its inner margin .
Before leaving Sphenophyllum plurifoliatum we will return for a moment i tb subject of the cambium , in order to consider the question of its first origin .
Wver constantly find an irregular layer of comparatively thin-walled tissue , bet wee th concave sides of the primary xylem-strand , and the first layer of interfascuk secondary wood ( see especially Plate 75 , photograph 20 , and Plate 83 , fig. 40 ) 1 the angles of the primary xylem on the other hand , the first secondary tehe appear to abut directly on those of the protoxylem ( see also photograph 1 are fig. 43 ) .
We may infer then that the fascicular cambium ( in the sense .bo1 explained ) arose from the first parenchymatous layer immediately adjoimn tl protoxylem , while the interfascicular cambium at its first origin was separatee fro \#163 ; he central wood by at least one layer of permanently parenchymatous cells .
It is probable that the formation of secondary wood always began in the nte fascicular region . !
Sometimes it extended at once round the protoxylem-angh ; other cases the completion of the ring was delayed , so that we may even findthr layers of interfascicular wood , while no trace of secondary tissue has as yet apsar opposite the groups of protoxylem .
2 .
Sphenophyllum insigne , nobis .
This is the species originally described under the name of Asterophyllites and includes all the specimens of Sphenophshowing structure , receive !
it\#171 ; Burntisland .
At the time when the fossil was first described , nothing was kn\#187 ; vft * C.N. 874 , Williamson , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 3 , fig. 16 .
f See Williamson , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 1 , fig. 2 .
( C.N. 872 .
) J Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , 1873 .
3R0ANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
927 Now we are in a somewhat better position , though our information on ge .
\#166 ; 3ject is still imperfect .
of the most important of the additional specimens is that of which a part is ated in longitudinal section , in Plate 84 , fig. 47 .
This section passes through which is very clearly shown , and corresponds well with the nodes of other of Sphenophyllum .
On both sides the bases of the leaves are evident .
Below be cortex is dilated for some distance .
The vascular bundles appear to have out obliquely ; on one side the outgoing tracheae could be seen .
The identity specimen with the other Burntisland examples of Sphenophyllum is sufficiently by the structure of the secondary wood .
If fig. 47b , which is taken from the m with the node , be compared with fig. 50 , which is taken from one of the specimens , the agreement in structure is manifest , the peculiar medullary rays specially characteristic .
have another preparation which shows something of the leaves .
This is an imately transverse section of a very young stem ( see Plate 83 , fig. 46 ) .
A the whorl of leaves is shown , with two vascular bundles passing out through dging from this specimen , the leaves in each verticil could not have been very \gt ; us ; probably not more than six .
They were evidently coherent for some :e from their base .
Primary Structure .
primary structure of the stem of S. insigne is on the whole similar to that of nfoliatum .
The cortex of the young stem has the same characteristic form as n transverse section .
There is a marked depression opposite each of the e sides of the triarch strand of wood ( see Plate 76 , photograph 23 ; Plate 83 , \gt ; ) .
s primary xylem agrees in general anatomical features with that of the former s. Here also the triquetrous strand of tracheae is quite solid , and destitute of diymatous elements of any kind .
The tracheae are of smaller size than those plurifoliatum .
Towards the middle of the strand they are pitted ; their pits ery variable in form ; sometimes they are oval , and not unlike those of the r species ; often , however , they are more transversely elongated , and approach 3alariform type .
Towards the angles of the strand the elements become rapidly sr ; at each corner there is constantly an intercellular space or canal , which Is a good distinctive character from S. pl in which such canals aie * found ( Plate 76 , photograph 23 ; Plate 83 , fig. 45 ) .
Surrounding the canal are i tracheae , which are much more frequent here than in the last species , ments of spirals are also often found in the canal itself ( see Plate 85 , fig. 53 ) .
would be rash to assume that the canals existed , as such , during life .
It is hie that they may represent the position of thin-walled tissue which accmopanied spiral elements .
It is , however , equally likely that they were actual lacunae , deccxciv.\#151 ; b. 6 0 928 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE formed by the rupture of the tissues , as so often happens in similar position i numerous , often uncoiled spiral tracheae , at the angles of the primary xylem 6 indication that growth was still in active progress when the differentiation of i tissues began .
Spirals are comparatively rare in S. a fact A harmonizes well with the absence of canals in that species .
There can be no doubt that in S. insign as in other species , the primary xa , was triarch and centripetal , the three peripheral groups of spiral tracheae marking three points at which differentiation started .
We cannot see any proof that were two groups of protoxylem at each angle .
It might indeed be possibly consider the canal as separating the two arms of a crescentic group of primitive tracer* , as is so conspicuously the case in the Autun species ( see Plate 76 , photography ) But the fact that we have repeatedly found spiral tracheae immediately to the ouick of the canal ( see Plate 85 , fig. 53 ) appears to us to negative such a view , are to prove that the protoxylem at each angle was a single group .
As regards the other primary tissues there is little to detain us .
The iner cortical layers , which cannot be distinguished from the pericycle and phloem , thin-walled , and are very imperfectly preserved in the less advanced specimens .
Wt can therefore give no information as to the primary phloem , though we shalfim that the secondary phloem was well preserved in some of the older stems .
The outer cortex consisted of somewhat thick-walled tissue , but less sclerotichai that of S. plurifoliatum .
The cells which , in the internodes , are of consideabli length , were generally parenchymatous in form ( Plate 84 , fig. 47 ) .
As regards the course of the leaf-trace bundles , it appears probable from , ill preparation shown in Plate 83 , fig. 46 , that- two foliar bundles were given off ror each angle of the triarch steal .
For the mode of branching , we have only the evidence of one specimen , th interpretation of which is doubtful .
We shall return to the consideration c thispecimen , after describing the secondary tissues .
Secondary Changes .
The development of secondary wood and phloem and of periderm proceed Sphenophyllum insigne in the same general manner as in S. plurifoliatum ancbti species of the genus .
The structure of the secondary tissues , especially of the- w differs in some respects from that in any other species at present investigated .
As regards the largest specimens of S. insigne , certain authors have expsw doubt or disbelief as to their belonging to Sphenophyllum at all , and have supos* them to be roots , either of a Cycad , or of some unknown plant.t * C.N. 926 ; see Williamson , " Organization , " Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 27 .
; |Sy | f Kg .
, Renault , ' Course de Botanique Fossile , ' vol. 4 .
, p. 12 ( 1885 ) ; Schenk , " DieFossilen rest , " in ' Handbuch der Botanik , ' Bd .
4 , p. 103 ; Solms , 'Fossil Botany , ' p. 349 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
929 se doubts , as we shall proceed to show , are groundless .
We have a series of ens with secondary wood of all thicknesses up to 36 elements in each radial The smaller of these specimens ( such as that shown in the photograph 23 , on 6 ) still retain the characteristic primary cortex , and no doubts have been , or can ertained as to their nature .
Their structure , however* already presents the \gt ; eculiarities which have given rise to suspicions in the case of the larger speci-The latter only differ from the former in the greater bulk of their secondary and in the loss of their primary cortex , which is cast off in S. insigne exactly there species of the genus .
e first consider one of the moderately thickened specimens ( such as that shown ; 'graph 23 ) , we find that the primary triarch wood has the structure already ed ( cf.fig .
45 on Plate 83 ) .
Upon this primary strand several layers ( 7\#151 ; 10 in ?
cimen photographed ) of secondary xylem have been deposited .
This tissue is it opposite the middle of each of the three concave sides of the primary wood , ins out considerably towards its angles .
The xylem elements are arranged with eristic regularity in radial series .
The distinction between fascicular and iscicular wood is already well marked .
e are , however , two distinctive characters presented by this wood as compared lat of the other species .
The tracheae have scalariform markings , at least on their radial walls .
This is very plainly , both in oblique sections'* and in the longitudinal section already i to ( C.N. 1420 , see Plate 84 , fig. 47 ) .
The tangential walls do not generally ny pits ; when present on these walls the pits are small and rounded .
The more striking difference consists in the presence , in all parts of the wood , liar medullary rays , one or two cells in breadth , extending through the whole sss of the secondary zone .
Occasionally isolated cells occur at the corners of tchese , but , as a rule , the parenchyma of the wood takes the form of continuous Comparison with a longitudinal section ( see Plate 83 , fig. 47b ) shows that 'ays may be one cell in height or more .
Their elements have a lenticular form , i in tangential sections of the stem .
primary cortex is well preserved in these younger specimens ( see photograph 23 ) .
s of secondary tissue , no doubt including both phloem and periderm , surrounds 3od ; its structure is more evident in the more advanced specimens , ter examples , with secondary wood from 11 to 22 elements in radial thickness , precisely the same structure . !
'e , however , the secondary cortical tissues have reached a considerable thickness , heir cells are in regular radial series .
Outside this zone the remains of the ry cortex can still be traced.^ 1 in C.N. 910 .
r the details of the wood , see Plate 84 , figs. 49-52 , and compare with the structure of the 3r stem shown in fig. 47 .
N. 922 and 926 .
930 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE Lastly , we have the largest specimen , figured in transverse section by " Williamsc * the identity of which has been disputed .
The primary xylem in this specimen has exactly the same structure as in smaller stems ; the canals at the angles , containing fragments of spiral tracheidesirt perfectly evident .
The secondary wood , which reaches a maximum thickness f 36 elements , agrees in every respect with that of the less advanced specimens -L medullary rays are alike , and so are the tracheae , with their scalariform radial wlgf In fact , if the more central portion of the largest specimen were seen alone , it cu}(i not be distinguished from the corresponding region of one of the younger smg which still retain the typical cortex of a In the most advanced specimens the primary cortex has , as we should eject entirely disappeared ; it is replaced by an enormously thick bark , formed by slices sive layers of internal periderm ( see Plate 84 , figs. 48 , 51 , and 52 ) .
We maintain , then , that there is no longer the slightest reason to doubt tbs fchi largest , as well as the smallest , specimens under consideration belong to one an tt same species , namely , to that species of the genus to which wgiv the name of S. insigne .
The sections in which no primary cortex is shown would , by themselves , suggst t any botanist the idea of a root .
The root-like anatomy , however , is common o a specimens of the genus Sphenophyllum , and is no more remarkable in a largestei than in a small one .
The comparison of specimens of various dimensions show thi the only change consists in the formation of additional secondary layers , and a tl casting off of the primary cortex , owing to the development of internal perid^jro The presence of true medullary rays in all parts of the wood is certainly excebon in Sphenophyllum , so far as our present knowledge extends .
This peculiaiit } ha ever , is not confined to the larger specimens of insigne , hut is already premt stems which still retain the unmistakeable cortex and node of a Sphenophylhm Of the details of structure of the secondary wood little remains to be sa|jt medullary rays vary much in height .
Many consist of a single series of cells , \#187 ; tht of two series ; in extreme cases events many as 15 rows may be superposed t li a single ray .
The larger rays are usually two or more cells in breadth in somtpai The uniseriate rays , as seen in radial section , are perfectly similar to the elongated cells of S. plurifoliatum , except that in S. insigne these cells lie^** the same straight line ( compare Plate 83 , fig. 44 , and Plate 84 , fig. 49 ) .
^fl tance of this difference is not to be underrated .
It probably indicates a Pi mode of development from the cambium .
We must , however , remember that Williamson , loc. cit , Part V. , Plate i , should also be compared .
Our figures 47 , 5 , I are from smaller stems .
MjAmZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
931 rifoliatum continuous rays do occur , more especially in the fascicular part of the t go the distinction is by no means an absolute one .
ittinff of the tracheae is often beautifully preserved ; in tangential sections it ent that the scalariform pits were bordered ( Plate 84 , fig. 50 ) .
On the surface ; tion of tracheae and ray-cells the border is unilateral .
ether the tracheae were true vessels or tracheides can hardly be determined .
were tracheides they must have been of great length , for they can often be all through a section without finding any terminal wall .
In some cases , how-ve have observed , in tangential sections , what appear to be the very tapering f tracheae .
We do not regard this observation as decisive , for such appearances possibly be due to slight obliquity of the section .
The question must therefore .
open .
Now that the transverse lines seen in radial sections have been proved resent the walls of cells external to the tracheae , there is no longer any evidence 3 existence of transverse septa in the latter .
i cambium appears to have originated in exactly the same position in this species S. plurifoliatwm .
pearances suggestive of annual rings are sometimes met with in S. insigne , but , me remarks apply here as in the case of the former species .
a longitudinal section of the largest stemt a protoxylem-canal is shown , which .tly blocked up by polygonal cells .
As the canals are empty in the youngei aens , it is probable that these cells were of the nature of thyloses .
remains to consider the secondary tissues external to the wood .
In the more iced specimens ( see Plate 84 , fig. 48 ) the thick cortical zone } is composed of lie arranged cells .
Their radial series correspond with , but are usually more rous than , those of the wood .
The walls of the cortical cells become thicker .ds the exterior .
The limit between phloem and internal periderm is not always us .
In favourable cases , however , where the delicate phloem happens to be cularly well preserved , or where , perhaps , it was developed in unusual amount , 'hole structure is clear .
This is the case , for example , in the largest specimen , bich corresponding transverse and radial sections are shown in Plate 84 , figs. 51 52 .
Adjoining the wood we see evident remains of the tabular cambial cells , side these we find a group of thin-walled tissue , in which the arrangement of the , though somewhat irregular , shows traces of a radial seriation .
Some of the cells bis group are of large size , in fact not much smaller than the tracheae o t e I Beyond these , again , are flat , thin-walled cells , passing over on the outside thicker-walled periderm , only a small part of which is represented in fig. 51 .
If compare the radial section with this the corresponding parts are evident .
The This seems to be also the case in the Autun SphenopJiyHum .
See Renault , Course de Bot. Foss* , ^ plate A , fig. 4 , r. O N. 924 .
Of .
loot-note above , on p. 925 .
932 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE outer limit of the wood is sharply defined ; next comes a layer of excessively deli elongated cells , doubtless the cambium .
Further to the exterior we find 4%^ long , thin-walled elements , some of which are of considerable diameter , and are\amp ; T what dilated at the transverse septa .
These evidently correspond to the large walled cells of the transverse section .
The resemblance of these elements sieve-tubes of the higher plants is very striking , nor are sieve-tubes of similar Dr !
unknown among the vascular Cryptogams .
In , for example , they are times quite of this type .
We think it quite possible that these elements in Spno phyllum insigne may really have been of the nature of sieve-tubes .
Still further towards the outside we find the very regular , short-celled peridm its inner cells have thin walls , and no doubt represent the phellogen .
The gap tl figure , separating the periderm from the phloem , is merely a local lesion , for , in tb parts of the same section , all the tissues are continuous .
From the study of the transverse section , as a whole , it appears that the p(1j .
was not equally developed all round the stem , but was specially localized at crtai points .
The periderm attained a great thickness ; in the largest specimen four ditin zones can be recognized , so that here , as in S. , there was evidetly repeated formation of phellogen in successively deeper-seated layers .
This *re development of internal periderm , and consequent throwing-off of the whole pmai cortex , seems to have been a striking characteristic of the genus .
Before concluding our account of this species we will return to a specimen , abac referred to , which shows the base of a lateral appendage .
The section in questin* an incomplete transverse one , showing only one angle of the primary wood .
..bo ten layers of secondary wood are present , and both primary and secondary corte a fairly preserved .
Opposite the protoxylem-group a large bundle of sealarifcm reticulated tracheae , accompanied by parenchyma , runs out in an horizontal diretio The outgoing strand is too large for a leaf-^trace ; it must have belonged eithf to branch or an adventitious root .
The cortex appears to be ruptured at the exit 11 strand .
On the whole , we are inclined to regard the appendage as a root , \#187 ; r j origin seems to have been endogenous .
No certain conclusions , however , on drawn from this isolated specimen .
To sum up , we find that the chief anatomical characteristics of insigne , are the following : 1 .
The presence of a canal at each angle of the primary triarch xylem .
2 .
The scalariform thickening of the secondary tracheae , at least as regard^ ' radial walls .
3 .
The presence , throughout the secondary wood , of continuous medullary ras .
* C.N. 926 ( see Williamson , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 27 ) .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
933 he occurrence of very large elements , resembling sieve-tubes , in the phloemie characters are sufficient to differentiate the species .
In the arrangement of ves , the outline and structure of the primary cortex , the centripetal triarch and the mode of growth in thickness , the plant is a typical in renus it finds its natural resting-place .
THE FRUCTIFICATION OF SPHENOPHYLLUM .
Sphenophyllum Dawsoni , nobis .
fructification which we are about to consider was first described in 1871 , under no of Volkmannia Dawsoni , unless , indeed , as M. Zeiller suspects , the plant ed by Binney , in the previous year , as be the same # her accounts of the same fossil were published in 1873 and 1890 , and , in 1891 , complete description was given of its structure , on the basis of a number of discovered specimens . !
884 the species was placed by Weiss in Binney 's genus Bowmanites , \ a view was accepted in the later memoirs of Williamson .
892 , M. ZeillerS communicated to the French Academy the results of his lation of some extremely fine fructifying specimens of Sphenophyllum cunei-Sternb .
, from the French and Belgian Coal-Measures .
He expressed himself winced of the complete identity of Williamson 's specimens of Bowmanites ni , with the fructifications of his Sphenophyllum.|| year ( 1893 ) M. Zeiller has published his work in full .
IF His detailed ?
tions , and especially his beautiful photographic illustrations , leave no doubt as essential agreement between the undoubted strobili of Sphenophyllum , which estigated , and the English specimens described as Bowmanites Dawsoni .
The 3n of specific identity of the latter with Sphenophyllum cuneifolium , is one we prefer to leave open for the present .
One of us ( D. H. Scott ) has had the [ LLIamson , " On the Organization of Volkmannia Tiawsoni , " 'Mem .
Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Man-* Ser. 3 , yoI .
5 ; Binney , " Observations on the Structure of Fossil Plants , " Part 2 , ' Palseonto-sal Society , ' volume for 1870 .
illiamson , " Organization of Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , " Part V. ( 1873 ) ; Part 17 ( 1890 ) ; rt 18 ( 1891 ) ; ' Phil. Trans. ' Biss , 1 Steinkohlen-Calamarien , ' vol. 2 , p. 200 .
" omptes Rendus , ' vol. 115 , July 11 , 1892 .
his conclusion has already been provisionally accepted by WIlliamson , 'Nature , vol. 47 , Nov. 3 , Etude sur la constitution de l'appareil fructificateur des Sphenophyllum , " 'Mem .
de la Soc. 3e France ; Paleontologie , ' Mem. 11 , 1893 .
934 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE opportunity , through the kindness original specimens , and was able com We propose first to give a general account of the organization of the strobilus shown in the English specimens , in which alone the internal structure is preserve The facts already known will be briefly recapitulated , while some additional pointsi interest , which have been revealed by our renewed examination of the specimens 4 be described more fully .
Finally , we shall state the reasons which have induced , to accept M. Zeiller 's conclusion that this strobilus is the fructification o Sphenophyllum .
For the present we propose to retain the specific name originally given to English specimens , which we shall therefore describe as Sphenophyllum Dawsoni .
General Morphology .
The strobilus consists of a somewhat slender axis ( attaining 2'5 millims. in diamer bearing a number of successive verticils of coherent bracts .
The largest numbeo whorls preserved in any of our specimens is 8 ( in Q.N. 1898 k , part of which represented in Plate 85 , fig. 54 ) ; the total number was no doubt much greater .
The coherent portion of the bracts , forming the disc of previous memoirs , extern for a distance about equal to the diameter of the axis .
It then divided up intofe free bracts , or \lt ; f disc-rays .
" The latter had a somewhat lanceolate form , broadei out for some distance from the base , and then tapering again towards the apex , j leaving the axis the bracts take an obliquely upward course , curving rapidly tow the apex of the strobilus , until their direction is nearly vertical ( Plate 85 , fig. The free limbs of the bracts were of great length , as is shown by the fact the transverse sections we may find as many as six overlapping whorls , proving thatH extreme vertical length of the bracts must sometimes have been equal to abouts internodes , giving an extreme absolute length of perhaps 12 millims. * The number of bracts in a verticil could not be determined with certainty ; ap rently it was about fourteen in some of the smaller specimens , and not less N twenty in the larger .
From the position of the overlapping tips it appears that the bracts of succe-i ' whorls alternated with one another .
This is somewhat surprising , for the leav the vegetative verticils of Sphenophyllum were superposed .
This is , howeveji argument against the identification of our specimens with Sphenophyllum , fi M. Zeiller 's strobili , borne on the stems of typical Sphenophyllum crucifolti\amp ; tf alternation of the bracts is still more evident .
The sporangia are not borne directly on the bracts , but each is seated on the e a long pedicel or sporangiophore .
The pedicels are twice as numerous as the br\gt ; * M. Zeiller 's estimate , based on the figures of Memoir XVIII .
, is 8 millims. Some of his spec*1 of 8 .
cuneifoliumhave bracts 10-13 millims. in length .
See his Memoir above cited , p. 21 .
of M. Zeiller , of thoroughly examining \ pletely to confirm his conclusions .
ORGANIZATION " OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
935 ise from the upper surface of the coherent disc near the axil .
The extent to they adhere to the surface of the disc varies greatly ; in some cases they free at once ; in others they do not become wholly free until the point is where the bracts themselves begin to separate from one another.* It does \gt ; ear , however , that there was ever more than a single verticil of sporangio-belonging to each verticil of bracts ; appearances to the contrary seem to he }he varying degree of adhesion between the two organs ( Plate 85 , fig. 54 ) .
nsverse section of the strobilus may show one or two circles of sporangia i two whorls of bracts ; sometimes even a part of a third circle is present .
:ie variations are observable in tangential sections .
These differences can only ained by the fact that the sporangiophores overlap each other , so as to bring \#187 ; orangia to different levels .
Where additional sporangia appear within the ternode , their position is both exterior and superior to those of the first circle Lte 76 , photographs 25 and 26 , and compare with the figures in Williamson , V1IL ) .
Hence the longer pedicels must have passed to the outside of the ia borne on the shorter ones , as is often well shown both in transverse and ial sections , t onger sporangiophores considerably exceed an internode in length , for we find ia belonging to two successive verticils of bracts appearing in the same transition .
; ) ; sporangiophores follow the upward curvation of the bracts , keeping at a little 3 from their superior surface .
Each bears at its end a single sporangium , 3 attached in a very characteristic manner .
The pedicel bends inwards at its 3 end , and the sporangium is suspended from it , so as to hang almost parallel jedieel , occupying a position rather like that of an anatropous ovule in relation micle ( Plate 76 , photograph 25 ; Plate 85 , figs. 57 and 58 ) .
short account of the general morphology of the strobilus may suffice as an ction , considering the full descriptions which have already been published .
We sv proceed to consider its internal structure .
The Axis .
axis of the strobilus is traversed by a solid vascular cylinder , of which only \gt ; od retains its structure .
In the larger specimens the wood forms a very i triquetrous strand .
S i of the obtuse comers is prolonged into two projecting points , with a marked etween them .
The smallest tracheae are at the points , so that we may * Williamson , ** Organization , " Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 28 ; Part XVIII .
, Plate 26 , fig. 7 .
lliamson , loc. cit. , Part XVIII .
, Plate 26 , fig. 2 ; and Plate 25 , fig. 8 .
fiiLiAM80N , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 28 .
e Williamson , loc. cit. , Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 29 ; and Part XVIII .
, Plate 25 , fig. I. 'CCXCIV.\#151 ; -b , 6 D PROFESSOR W. 0/ WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THU reasonably assume that in this ease there were six distinct groups of protoxylej in some of the species of Sphenophyllum investigated by M. Renault ( see Plat 7 photograph 24 , from the Autun form ) .
It is noticeable that the whole peripL the woody mass is occupied by elements decidedly smaller than those of the inV There is not the slightest indication of a pith , or of any parenchymatous cells an the thick-walled tracheae .
Longitudinal sections show tracheae only , the lar , r which appear to have pitted walls .
One section ( see Plate 85 , fig. 54 ) ^ , probably passed through the xylem near one of its angles , also shows scalarifort spiral tracheae ; the latter are small and no doubt represent the protoxylem .
The soft tissues surrounding the wood have entirely perished , except for ^ structureless film , which , in one specimen , extends between the angles of the %d In one of the smaller specimens ( see Plate 86 , photograph 26 ) the xylem-stind excessively slender , and its angles acute , though here also there are some indi tin ; of a double group of protoxylem at each .
It is doubtful whether thesesm , specimens are identical with the larger ones , which have a massive strand of ylei It is possible that they may belong to a second species , but we have not suicie evidence to justify their separation .
The spores of the larger and smaller rub show no constant difference in size .
The specimen from which fig. 54 is drawn , evidently belongs to the smalleifori the diameter of the whole strobilus is only about 6 millims. , while those of thdarj type are on the average at least 12 millims. in diameter .
The outer cortex of the axis is well preserved .
Its inner cells are thin-wald a parenchymatous , but towards the exterior they have thicker walls and ai m prosenchymatous in form .
As regards the course of the leaf-trace bundles running out into the brats , data are incomplete .
None of our sections show the out-going bundles at tfe pc where they diverge from the central cylinder .
On the other hand we ha ' sc excellent preparations showing the bundles in the outer part of their couie .
several sections we see .
them just at the inner edge of the cortex , or rather f t outer zone of cortex which is alone preserved* The bundles in this positioi arc considerable size , and may contain as many as twenty tracheae .
Their m elements are towards the exterior , and are spirally thickened , while the mer larger tracheae are scalariform , or at least their spiral band is more closeljew These facts can be made out where the section is oblique .
We may infer thn , t the xylem of the leaf-trace bundle was cGntvipctojl .
The bundles which we meet with in the cortex are often larger than those wl pass out into the whorl of bracts , and no doubt sometimes subdivided on tMr through the outer cortical layers .
* See Willumson , be .
tit .
, Part XVIII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 3 .
They are also well shown , o .
scale , in our photograph 25 , on Plate 76 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
937 The Bracts .
.ansverse sections passing through the base of the disc , or coherent whorl of we find the out-going bundles again , just where they leave the cortex , and it obliquely into the verticil ( see Plate 85 , fig. 55 , which is from the same as the more general figure in Williamson , Part XVIII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 9 ) .
this point each bundle undergoes a division into three .
One branch , the most il of the trio , continues its course through the disc ; the two others are given the inner side , towards the axis , and supply two sporangiophores ( compare and 56 , on Plate 85 ) .
The external branch in each case runs straight out ti the disc into one of the free bracts , each of which always contains a slender , r bundle , a fact which has been previously overlooked .
bundle-system of the appendages then , is clear ; each bract receives a single from the axis ; immediately on entering the verticil the bundle gives off two es in an upward and inward direction .
These branches constitute the bundles two sporangiophores corresponding to the bract in question .
The determination fact supplies the answer to a question raised by M. Zeiller in his memoir 3ited , # 'as to the relation between bracts and sporangiophores .
The anatomy , as the external morphology , indicates plainly that the sporangiophores are [ ages of the bracts , and not independent outgrowths of the axis , egards the structure of the bracts , a few words will suffice .
In the coherent l of the whorl the parenchyma is , on the whole , very uniform , except that we palisade-like layer near the insertion of the whorl and towards the lower i ( Plate 85 , fig. 54 ) .
The xylem of each vascular bundle is surrounded by an space , which no doubt marks the position of the phloem and thin-walled tissue , ot possible to determine whether the bundle was collateral or concentric , free bracts have a well preserved epidermis , in which smaller cells are seen nd there , but no definite stomata can be detected .
Usually only the middle f the mesophyll is preserved ; towards the edges of the bract the space within .idermis is empty .
Through the middle of the persistent central tissue runs ender vascular bundle , which can only be well seen in the most favourable as .
In other respects , a previous figure gives a sufficient idea of the structure , t The Sporangiophores and Sporangia .
b insertion of the sporangiophores , as determined by the point at which their lar bundles are given off from those of the bracts , appears to be constant , while mount of adhesion , beyond this point , between the sporangiophores and the ent disc , is very variable , as has already been explained .
* Loc.cit .
p. 21 .
t Williamson , loc. cit. , Part XVIII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 12 .
The sporangiophore , in its lower part , is a small cylindrical pedicel , of structure .
Its diameter near the base is only about T5 millim. It has a qi marked epidermis , beneath which there is sometimes a rather sclerotic hypode layer.* The delicate inner tissue is more or less disorganized .
The xylem oti vascular bundle , which here consists of two or three tracheae only , is placed to % ] the adaxial surface .
As we follow the sporangiophore upwards , we find a gradual change in its struts Certain of the epidermal cells become enlarged .
Sometimes one cell on eactsid projects beyond its neighbours , giving a winged appearance to the transverse seior As we approach the sporangium , the sporangiophore grows thicker , attaints diameter of about *4 millim. In this part all the epidermal cells of its out dorsal surface are enlarged .
The transverse section is here approximately circular ( see Plate 85 , fig. 57 ) .
The vascular bundle contains many more tirfie than in its lower part ; we can now see clearly that while the xylem , as a wile , situated towards the inner surface ( an indication that the bundle was collates ) , j smallest tracheae are directed outwards .
This is constantly the case wherew t preservation permits the structure to be clearly seen .
It appears then that i t sporangiophore , as in the leaf , the xylem was C67itviip6tccl .
All the trache s spiral .
The sporangiophore bends over at its extremity , towards the axis of the 4\amp ; bili Here the sporangium is attached to it with a fairly broad base .
The xylem pneis its full thickness to the last , and comes to a sudden end , being obliquely tfucat where the cavity of the sporangium begins .
The thin-walled tissue surroundig xylem extends further into the sporangium , and gradually thins out along it w ; ( see Plate 85 , fig. 58 ; Plate 76 , photograph 25 , and more especially Willimb Part XVIII , Plate 27 , fig. 16 ) .
j j The sporangium , as already mentioned , lies back nearly parallel with the pdn with the flat side of which it is in contact ( figs. 57 and 58 ) .
In our specimens the wall of the sporangium is but one cell in thickness , ^ near the base .
The wall is similar in structure to the epidermis of the adjoining on of the sporangiophore .
M. Zeiller has suggested several questions as to the wall which we have endeavoured to solve .
+ He enquires whether there is aeg diminution in the size of the cells of the wall , as the distance from the )ed increases .
There is certainly a diminution , but it is not quite regular .
We obn a constriction near the base of the sporangium , which we may take , as marklg limit between the sporangial wall and the epidermis of the pedicel seep graph 25 , and figures above cited ) .
Beyond this constriction large ce s , j* those of the epidermis , recommence .
They gradually diminish m size , as w the sporangial wall towards the free end .
but soon their diameter becomes mi * Williamson , loc. cit. , Part XVIII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 15 .
.f Jjoc .
cit. p. 22 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
939 at the end of the sporangium , however , we often find a group of specially narrow uggesting that here dehiscence took place .
Measurements give the following .e results \#151 ; Large epidermal cells of pedicel . . .
Largest cells of sporangial wall . . .
Ordinary cells of wall ... ... ... ... . .
Narrowest cells of wall . . . . .
.12 millim. radial diameter .
*073 , , " , , *036 " , , " at has just been said answers another of M. Zeiller 's enquires ( .
p. 23 ) , y , whether the largest cells belong exclusively to the pedicel , or whether some along to the sporangium itself .
Undoubtedly the latter is the case , hird point suggested by M. Zeiller for investigation relates to the thickening \#166 ; membranes of the large cells in question .
He compares them to the annulus .ns , and enquires whether , like the cells of that organ , they are more thickened sir inner than on their outer surface .
We have carefully examined the cells 0f the pedicel , and of the sporangial wall , from this point of view .
They are similar to each other , and their membranes show a distinct thickening in the )f bars , running along their lateral walls in the radial direction .
In some cases lickened ridges extend also over the inner and outer cell-walls , but we could ; no difference between them as to thickness .
The Spores .
s spores of Sphenophyllwwi Dawsoni are already well known ; their cell-wall 3ses a highly characteristic ornamentation , consisting of prominent spines , which mnected together on the external surface of the exosporium , by a reticulum of bed ridges.* This structure is quite constant ; in one strobilus only did we find leviation from it .
In this specimen only two of the sporangia shown in the \gt ; n + contain typical spores , which are here about *1 millim. in diameter .
The \#166 ; sporangia contain thin-walled spores , without spines , and of somewhat smaller though not smaller than the typical spores of some other specimens .
It is able that the thin-walled spores in this strobilus were immature , lere is nothing whatever , in any of our specimens , to suggest that the fructifica-was heterosporous .
As about a dozen distinct specimens have now been examined , highly probable that if two kinds of spores were present , both must have been rved .
The variations in the size of the spores are inconsiderable , 076 millim. 1.04 millim. being the extreme range ; these extremes are connected by spores of rmediate dimensions .
See Williamson , loc. cit. , Part .
XVIII .
, Plate 25 , figs. 17 and 18 .
See also our own figures 57 and 58 , * 'late 85 .
C.N. 1049 C , figured by Williamson , loc. cit. , Part XVIII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 6940 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE The Vegetative Stem .
A specimen which appears to throw light on the structure of the stem of this in its vegetative region , has been described and figured in a previous memoir* 1 specimen is a mere fragment , of which we know only the transverse section .
It obtained from the same source , the Foot-mine at Oldham , which has yielded son 0f the specimens of the strobilus itself .
The primary wood is bluntly triquetrous , and appears to consist of a perfectly ^ mass of tracheae .
The details of its structure , so far as the transverse section^ show , are absolutely identical with those of the xylem-strand in the axis okhe strobilus.t In the vegetative specimen , however , the primary xylem is surrounded by a see of secondary wood , 12-15 elements in thickness .
The structure of this secondary ood agrees exactly with that of Sphenophyllum , except that the distinaon between fascicular and interfascicular wood is somewhat less marked than in ; hat species .
Portions of the secondary cortex are also preserved ; the cortical cells are arraged in radial series , which generally correspond to those of the wood .
At one plac could distinguish three zones of cortical tissue .
| It is probable that we have i:thi\gt ; stem , as in the species of Sphenophyllum above described , a succession of deep-satec peridermal layers .
So far as the evidence extends , there is every reason to suppose that this spemei is a stem of the same plant as that to which the strobilus belonged .
It differs fra the axis of the latter just in those points ( secondary thickening , and loss of pruar cortex ) in which we should expect a persistent vegetative stem to differ froi tb short-lived axis of a fructification .
The primary structure of the two , so far as : ca be compared , is identical .
Now the anatomy of the vegetative specimen is that of a Sphenophyllum .
tbug somewhat different from that of any of the species of which the structure ha/ bee previously described .
This specimen thus established a presumption that " Bowmnik Dawsoni " was the fructification of a Sph , or of some closely allied lan This presumption has now been raised to a certainty by M. Zeiller 's observatias .
Affinities .
M. Zeiller 's investigation of his fine specimens of the fructification of phyllum cuneifolium has established the following facts : the bracts of each tHi * Williamson , " Organization , " Part XVII .
, Plate 15 , fig. 19 .
f Compare Williamson , loc. tit .
, Part XVII .
, Plate 15 , fig. 19 , with Part V. , Plate 5 , fig. 29 , rw Part XVIII .
, Plate 25 , fig. 1 .
+ Not clearly shown in the figure cited .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
941 herent at the base , forming a funnel-shaped disc ; they then become free from nother and their free portions extend to a height equal to two or three udes .
the outline of each bract is linear-lanceolate .
The sporangia are iriate in each internode , being ranged in two , three , or perhaps , sometimes four of increasing radius , and placed one above another .
The sporangia are not ed directly to the bracts , but are borne singly at the end of filiform pedicels of g length , which are thickened at their summit ; these pedicels start from the nt portion of the bracts , and run parallel to the latter , keeping a little above superior surface ; the pedicels become erect near their summit , and curve back is the axis , following the external outline of the sporangium , which is attached superior extremity .
Near the point of attachment , large cells , with more or less ned lateral walls , can be distinguished on the dorsal surface of the pedicel , and , as us , on the sporangium itself.# In all these points the fructification of m cuneifoliumagrees exactly with the English specimens of S. Dawsoni .
The exception is that , in the latter , the bracts are sometimes of greater length ely to the internodes .
Zeiller adds a detailed comparison of the actual dimensions of his own lens ( derived from three distinct sources ) with those of the English fossil , in rts there is a most striking agreement . !
\gt ; appearance and form of the sporangium and pedicel in S. correexactly with our observations on the English specimens , and the same remark s equally to the whorl of bracts.^ \gt ; agreement in all respects is so close as to leave no doubt that the strobilus bed by us is that of a Sphenophyllum , nearly related to , and perhaps identical the species S. cuneifolium .
e prefer , however , not to assume the identity of lecies until we have some further information as to the vegetative organs of the sh specimens .
are other species of Sphenophyllum were examined by M. Zeiller : S. n , Brongn .
; S. gracile , Crepin .
; S. oblo , Germ , et Kaulf ; and an med species from M. Renault 's collection .
They all show an essential agreement S. cuneifolium , especially as regards the main point , that the sporangia are borne y on pedicels which arise from the upper surface of the bracts .
In S. oblongi-m , M. Zeiller was able to isolate some of the spores .
Though much smaller those of S. Dawsoni , they are similar in form ( .
cit. , p. 28 ) .
nally , M. Zeiller reviews all the previous cases in which the fructification of 'nophyllum has been described , and shows , that all the previous observations are istent with the presence of pedicellate sporangia rather than of sporangia borne Jtly on the bracts .
We need not follow the details of this critical survey , but ttxe above account is taken from M. Zeiller 's summary on p. 20 of his Memoir above cited .
See his comparative table , loc. citp .
21 .
See M. Zeiller 's figures , loc. cit. , Plate 1 , figs. 1b and 4a ; Plate 2 , figs. 1a , 1b , 3a , \amp ; c. 942 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SOOTT ON THB will only call attention to one case , that of the fructification of Sphmmh trichomatosumi , Stur , recently described by Mr. Kidston.* The author states ( p. 60 ) that " the oval sporangia ( which have thick as indicated by the amount of carbon they possess ) stand upright on the b a short distance from their point of attachment to the cone .
" This statement is * exact as regards the two sporangia to which Mr. Kidston is specially referring !
^ his fig. 1a ) , but from his other figures it appears that the relation of the sporang^ the bracts , and to the axis , was very inconstant .
Sometimes they appear exact ' the axil , sometimes at a distance from it ; in certain cases they are shown in os contact with the upper surface of the bracts , while in others they are quite sepat from them .
These variations would find an adequate explanation if the sporWi ?
were borne on .pedicels , which would allow of a considerable degree of displaces It must be remembered that the specimens of Sphenophyllum Dawsoni are , vitl two exceptions to be mentioned immediately , the only ones known in which th internal structure of the strobilus is preserved , while among the specimens in theory of impressions , those described by M. Zeiller would appear to be by far thenos perfect .
The morphology of the strobilus must necessarily be interpreted in theigh of those specimens in which alone it is clearly exhibited .
Two silicified fragments of fructifications , referred to , haveiee discovered by M. Renault .
One of them has been mentioned above , and is desdbe in M. Zeiller 's Memoir ( loc. cit. , p. 28 ) .
Its organization agrees well with tat \lt ; S. euneifolium and S. Dawsoni .
The other fragment has been interprets b M. Renault as demonstrating the heterospory of M. Zeillji hi pointed out that in this specimen the sporangia were certainly borne on pence ( loc. cit. , p. 34 ) .
His interpretation of the supposed macrosporangium is ditrei from that of M. Renault .
M. Zeiller regards the " macrospore " as being in ialii a part of the sporangial wall , while the supposed wall of the macrosporangium bong in his opinion , to the pedicel .
One of us ( D. H. Scott ) was enabled tk\gt ; ig M. Renault 's kindness , to examine the specimen in question , and was dispose !
i accept M. Zeiller 's interpretation .
Although we cannot regard the evidence derived from this specimen ( wh imperfectly preserved ) as by any means sufficient to establish the fact of heterooor yet we fully allow the possibility that heterosporous species of ms have existed .
That both heterosporous and homosporous species may occur , itfa the limits of a single genus , is sufficiently proved by the case of Calamostachys .
The morphology of the strobilus of Sphenophyllum cannot be fully internet until the true homologies of the sporangiophores are established .
Four views ope possible:\#151 ; * * Proc. Royal Phys. Soc. of Edinburgh , ' vol. 11 , 1891 , p. 56 .
t 'Ann .
des Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ' Ser. 6 , vol. 4 , 1877 , p. 303 , Plate 9 , figs. 9-11 ; ' Course de Bot. vol. 2 , p. 102 , Plate 15 , figs. 7 and 8 , Plate 16 , fig. 3 .
The sporangiophore may be a branch borne in the axil of the bracts .
It may be a leaf , which has become adherent to the whorl below .
It may be a ventral lobe of a leaf , of which the bract is the dorsal lobe .
It may simply be a sporangium-pedicel , which , unlike those of any other ?
gam , possesses a vascular bundle of its own . .
bhe last case we might compare the sporangiophore with the funiculus of an but such a comparison would not advance the question much , for the true \gt ; of the funiculus itself is still disputed .
t the sporangiophore is an axial structure , i.e. , a branch , does not seem to us \gt ; le .
We have seen that the vascular tissue of each pair of sporangiophores is off from the bundle of a bract , and has no direct relation to the vascular I of the axis .
Further , the bundle of the sporangiophore is to all appearance a collateral one , a fact which would ill accord with a stem-structure .
t each sporangiophore represents an independent leaf , is a forced , though not 3S an impossible view .
We should , on this hypothesis , have to imagine a sion of alternating sterile and fertile whorls , the latter having twice as many ers as the former ; and we must further suppose every alternate internode re been shortened until each fertile verticil came to be adherent to the sterile II next below .
In the absence of any developmental data such speculations useless , though analogies might no doubt be found in the floral structures of n Angiosperms .
Another analogy might be traced with the Calamarian li .
If the sporangiophores in Equisetum and Calamostachys are really leaves , st botanists assume , then in the PalcBostachya type , there must have been just a shortening of the alternate internodes as is required by the hypothesis , in xophyllum .
The morphology of the Calamariese is , however , itself too doubtful i to employ it in order to explain that of a remote genus .
b view that each sporangiophore is a ventral lobe of the corresponding bract is held by M. Zeiller , * and is perhaps the most natural of the hypotheses so far iered .
In this case we must suppose each leaf to have had one dorsal lobe bract ) and two ventral lobes ( the sporangiophores ) .
M. Zeiller lays great 5 on the analogy with Marsilia , and also with Ophioglossum .
Even if we ?
ted these comparisons the question would be far from settled , for the mor- ?
gy of Ophioglossum , at any rate , is itself a subject of controversy .
Professor ER+ maintains that the whole fertile spike of Ophioglossum is homologous with gle sporangium of Lycopodium .
If we were to apply this view to the case of !
nophyllum , we should be led back to the idea that here the sporangiophore is mg but the stalk of a sporangium .
^iVe do not ourselves think , however , that comparison with the complex conditions in Ophioglossum throws any light on the h simpler case of Sphenophyllum .
* Loc .
cit. , p. 37 .
t ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 , 1891 .
hcccxcrv.\#151 ; b. The chief objection to the simple view that the whole sporangiophore is noq else than the pedicel of a sporangium , is the absence of any 1 * analogy anw Cryptogams for such a great elongation and high differentiation of that organ 7 have thought it best to state briefly the views which appear to us to be possle We make no attempt to decide between them , and indeed regard the questio as insoluble , in the absence alike of developmental facts and of satisfactory mat ?
i ] for comparative study .
We prefer to leave the whole question open , and , provikv ally , to speak of the sporangiophore as a pedicel simply , without prejudging possible homologies .
Our knowledge of the organization of Sphenopliyllum is now fairly complete .
vVe have not , it is true , been able ourselves to say anything as to the structure otht roots , nor to give any detailed account of the leaves .
Considerable informatic or these points , as regards other species of the genus , will however be found uth\lt ; works of M. Renault , cited above .
But though is now , for a m plant , very thoroughly known , it still seems to us impossible to determir it affinities .
That it is a vascular Cryptogam there can be no doubt , nor has thisoee questioned by any modern writer .
Among the vascular Cryptogams , must rank as one of the most highly organized genera , on account both of the res histological complexity of its vegetative organs , and of the peculiar morphology fii fructification .
However we may interpret the latter , it ) certainly has a Igli specialized character .
In fact Sphenophyllw affords yet another exampleof Carboniferous Cryptogam , which , so far from representing a primitive type , is innai ways more elaborately modified than any recent forms .
It is not surprising that the most various systematic positions have been asgm to the genus by different authors .
For example , Schenk , Van Tieghe* ai others , have placed it near Lycopodiacese ; Stur refers it to Calamariese , Beau to Salviniacese , while Zeiller has recently traced a relationship , on the one had , Marsiliacese , and on the other to Ophioglosseae .
Mr. Kidston thinks that* 1 Sphenophylla form a peculiar group of plants , which , though standing closed at Lycopods , cannot be included with them , but must be placed in a class bjf hfi selves\#151 ; the Sphenophylleae."* Count Solms-Laubach also places these plamii class of their own , thinking it best " to renounce for the present all forced abm at classification , and to regard the group as , as standing by itsd,0 independent."t To this cautious view of the matter we give our adhesion uj additional forms shall be discovered , which may link on the genus to other The chief characters which have to be taken into account , seem to us to jH ( 1 ) the jointed axis , with superposed verticils of leaves ; ( 2 ) the centripetal trirct hexarch xylem , without a pith ; ( 3 ) the structure of the sfcrobilus , especially th\#174 ; in which the sporangia are borne , and the relation of their pedicels to the brae* * Loc .
cit. , p. 61 .
f ' Fossil Botany , ' p. 354 .
b\amp ; GANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
945 phenomena of secondary growth , remarkable as they are , have appeared in so diverse groups of Cryptogams and Phanerogams , that we cannot attach much latic importance to them .
special peculiarities of the secondary tissues in appear to us to \gt ; even somewhat exaggerated by previous authors .
For example the absence of lary rays , on which so much stress has been laid , does not seem to have been nt in any species , while in S. insigne , which we have proved to be a true ophyllum , such rays are present in all parts of the wood .
The structure of scondary tracheae does not seem to us to differ essentially from that in other ogams with indefinite growth in thickness .
Their structure has been misunder-in the past , and represented as much more peculiar than it really is .
The on whether these elements are vessels or tracheides must , indeed , be left open , if they are true vessels they are not without analogy among recent Cryptogams .
Harvey Gibson * has been good enough to inform us that in Selaginella ris and or eg ana , he finds perfectly typical vessels , with transverse septa which e completely perforated , only leaving an annulus to mark their position.* i cambium of Sphenophyllum is perfectly normal , we might almost say typical , lost remarkable point is the repeated formation of internal layers of periderm , las no exact parallel in other Cryptogams , though familiar enough among higher \gt ; root-like anatomy of the stem is highly characteristic , and indeed peculiar to the .
The nearest approach to it is to be found in the centripetal xylem-strands of Lycopods as Psilotum or Tmesipteris , with which , however , our plant has vise nothing in common.t conclusion , we must return for a moment to the fructification , in order to in more clearly M. Zeiller 's views of its relation to that of Marsilia and of iglossum .
This author { loc. cit. , p. 37 ) points out the similarity between the il of the sporangium in Sphenophyllum , and the stalk of the sporocarp in ilia .
In both , the position is that of a ventral lobe of the leaf , while the mode achment of the sporangium in the former is similar to that of the sporocarp in inter .
We cannot , for our part , see more than a superficial resemblance here , seems to us impossible to compare morphologically the single sporangium of a rof .
Gibson will give details in his forthcoming paper on the " Comparative Anatomy of Selaginella .
has since appeared in the ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 8 , number for June , 1894 .
Jnly 15 , 1894 .
] cannot follow Count Solms-Laubach in his remarks on this subject .
He says ( loc. cit. , p. 354 ) : iming that the primary central bundle [ in Sphenophyllum ] belongs to the concentric type , then it to doubt be compared with the axile strand of Lycopodiese .
But this is as yet only an assumption ; indie might just as well be a triarch radial strand , and then there would be no resemblance to the jure of the stalk in any known living plant .
" ^vVe havo* little doubt that the central strand in l(yphyllum is radial , in de Bart 's sense , and that it is either triarch or hexarch .
But surely the \#174 ; strands of existing Lycopods are radial also , as be Bart long ago showed , and as the development [ y proves .
6 e 2 Sphenophyllum with the elaborate sporocarp of a which is obvious highly specialized foliar structure , containing two series of sori , with numt 4 sporangia in each sorus .
Whatever view be taken of the , we see no reas doubt that the sporangium of Sphenophyllum is simply a single sporangium , nothing more .
The comparison suggested with the Ophioglossese is based partly on the v%* position of the pedicel , partly on the apparently eusporangiate character o p sporangium , which could scarcely have arisen from a single cell .
In order to ftrr out the comparison we should have to imagine the fertile spike of an Ophiogli$u1 bearing a single sporangium .
Here again the resemblance seems to us too rem e f be suggestive of affinity .
We must be content for the present to leave this remarkable genus in its isah position , in the hope that the extensive knowledge of its organization , which wno possess , may in the future afford an adequate basis for comparison , when add ion forms of palaeozoic Cryptogams shall have been brought to light .
In concluding this paper , we desire to acknowledge the essential help of:hc gentlemen who have contributed the illustrations .
All the drawings reproduced in Plates 77 to 85 are the work of Mr. George Br ?
, m formerly Marshall Scholar in Biology at the Royal College of Science , London .
Of the micro-photographs , occupying Plates 72 to 76 , the first two were tabu Professor J. B. Farmer , of the Royal College of Science , while all the restiu number , are the work of Mr. A. E. Tutton , Demonstrator in Chemistry at thsa College .
The seven photographs in Plate 86 , representing medullary casts of were kindly taken for us by Mr. A. Gepp , of the British Museum , Natural list Department .
For the loan of these specimens for photographic purposes , w li been indebted partly to Dr. Woodward and partly to Mr. Carruthers .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES 72-86 .
PLATES 72-76.\#151 ; Photographs from the actual sections .
Many of the photora ] need to be examined with a lens .
PLATE 72 .
Catamites .
Photograph 1 .
Transverse section of a very young twig , corticated .
Seven|P bundles are shown , each with a large canal on its inner side , bin structure still unchanged .
C.N. 1020 .
X about 60 .
See also Plate 77 Photograph 2 , Transverse section of a larger branch , with 19 vascular ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
947 ortex well preserved .
Several layers of secondary wood have already been formed .
Outer part of the pith persistent .
C.N. 1553 .
X about 15 .
See also Plate 77 , fig* 3 .
ra h 3 Part of a transverse section of a larger branch , at a more advanced ^stage ; seven of the vascular bundles ( 21 in all ) are shown .
Numerous layers of secondary wood have been formed .
The cortex is differentiated into two layers .
C.N. 118# .
X about 25 .
See also Plate 78 , figs. 12 , -13 , and 14 .
graph 4 .
Radial section of part of a decorticated branch , showing two nodes , with their diaphragms .
There is a considerable zone of secondary wood .
Above the upper node , on the right hand , part of the base of a branch is shown .
C.N. 1937 .
X about 9 .
From Mr. Wild 's specimen , oraph 5 .
Tangential section through the wood of an advanced stem .
The 'section passed through the inner part of the secondary wood .
Five outgoing foliar bundles are seen in transverse section , as well as two branches out of the four which the complete section shows at this node .
Observe that there is no regular alternation of the vascular bundles above and below the node .
Observe the small-celled tissue of the medullary rays below the node .
C.N. 130* .
X about 12 .
graph 6 .
Similar section of another specimen .
This section has passed somewhat further towards the exterior .
Several foliar bundles are shown , and one branch .
Observe that its connection with the trachese of the main stem is chiefly from below .
C.N. 1554 .
X about 12 .
PLATE 73 .
Photographs 7 , 8 , and 9 .
Calamites .
ograph 7 .
Transverse section of Mr. Weld 's specimen , at some distance from the base of the branch , showing typical Calamitean structure , with a laige pith-cavity , and 24 bundles , each with its canal .
C.N. 1941 .
X about 10 .
jograph 8 .
Another section of the same , nearer the base .
Pith-cavity much smaller , bundles normal , but only 14 in number .
C.N. 1934 .
X about 10 .
tograph 9 .
Third section of the same , taken close to the base .
Pith of minute size , with small irregular cavity , probably of post-mortem origin .
Only 10 bundles , very crowded together , and with no distinct canals .
C.N. 1933a .
X about 10 .
Photographs 10\#151 ; 13 .
Calamostachys \gt ; tograph 10 .
Part of a radial section through a large strobilus .
There are 18 whorls of bracts in the specimen , of which 4 are shown .
Between them are 948 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE the whorls of sporangiophores , of which 5 are shown , with their spor .
Note the well-preserved central cylinder of the axis .
C.N. 1022 .
xir* Photograph 11 .
Part of a tangential section of the same specimen , showin g alternate whorls of coherent bracts , and of sporangiophores .
In the f note the vascular bundles .
The sporangiophores are seen in transverse Sej0 .
each surrounded by its 4 sporangia .
C.N. 1022a .
X about 8 su\ Plate 81 , figs. 27 and 28 .
Photograph 12 .
Transverse section passing through a whorl of coherent brat ; which there are 13 .
Their vascular bundles can be seen .
The small ?
are verse sections , seen immediately outside the whorl , are those of bra-ti rising up from below .
They alternate with the bracts of the next whorl T still smaller transverse sections , seen in some places between the large ; those of extreme tips of bracts from the second whorl below .
C.N9t X about 20 .
Photograph 13 .
Transverse section passing through a whorl of 6 peltate spotng phores , some of which are shown completely , with the sporangium attacad the lower surface of the peltate expansion , at its edge .
Here , again , tis t of the two whorls of bracts below are shown in transverse section surroiidi the strobilus .
C.N. 1020 .
X about 16 .
PLATE 74 .
Photograph 14 .
C. Binneyana .
Transverse section of strobilus , passing throgh internode .
In the axis the steal has four prominent corners , with aha and its canal at each corner .
A ring of sporangia surrounds the axi i beyond these again are seen the extremities of bracts , some in section , th in surface-view .
C.N. 1037a .
' X about 16 .
Photograph 15 .
Calamostachys Casheana .
Tangential section .
Parts ofth whorls are shown .
All the sporangia are macrosporangia except one , 1 single microsporangium belongs to the middle whorl , and to a sporangipb which also bears three macrosporangia .
C.N. 1587 .
X about 18 .
Sei Plate 82 , fig. 38 .
Photograph 16 .
Transverse section of the same specimen .
Only macrosporanfa shown .
The central cylinder has formed some secondary wood .
C.NJ.5 X about 25 .
See also Plate 82 , figs. 36 and 37 .
Photograph 17 .
Calamostachys sp. Part of a radial section of the strobilus , bracts and sporangiophores are obliquely ascending , not horizontal ash Binneyana .
C.N. 1896 .
X about 8 .
Photograph 18 .
Tangential section of the same specimen .
C.N. 1897 .
X abut ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLxlNTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
949 PLATE 75 .
Sphenophyllum plurifo \gt ; raph 19- Transverse section of a stem of moderate age , which has already cast off its primary cortex .
The triarch primary xylem is shown ; also the radially arranged fascicular and interfascicular secondary wood and , beyond that , the layers of phloem and periderm .
C.N. 894 .
X about 18 .
See also Plate 83 , fig. 43 .
Taph 20 .
Transverse section of another stem at a similar stage .
The details of the wood and of the periderm are especially clear .
C.N. 899 .
X about 18 .
rraph 21 .
Transverse section of a very advanced stem .
Structure of wood identical with that of previous specimens .
To the exterior , successive scales of bark are shown .
C.N. 1893 .
X about 8 .
yraph 22 .
Part of a transverse section of a still older stem , with secondary wood reaching 37 elements in thickness .
Details of wood , especially xylem-parenchyma , very clear .
Phloem only partially preserved , but 4 successive layers of periderm are present .
C.N. 901 .
X about 30 .
PLATE 76 .
graph 23 .
Sphenophyllum insigne .
Transverse section ol a stem , which still retains its primary cortex .
Triarch primary wood has a canal at each angle .
5\#151 ; 8 layers of secondary wood , with narrow medullary rays , have been formed .
There are traces of periderm within the primary cortex .
C.N. 919 .
X about 30 .
)graph 24 .
Sphenophyllum from Autun .
Transverse section of a specimen presented by M. Renault .
Observe the hexarch primary xylem , which is imperfectly differentiated towards the centre .
Secondary wood as in S. pluri-foliatum .
C.N. 929 .
X about 12 .
^graph 25 .
Part of an approximately transverse section through the strobilus of S.Dawsoni .
The central cylinder is absent , but leaf-trace bundles , within the cortex , are well shown .
Several sporangia show attachment to sporangio-phore , with its vascular bundle .
C.N. 1898 , H. X about 14 .
ograph 26 .
Approximately transverse section of a small strobilus of the same .
The triangular xylem is shown in the axis .
Part of the whorl of bracts seen is surface view , and sections of other bracts more to the exterior .
One sporangium is shown attached to sporangiophore .
C.N. 1898 , I. X about 12 .
950 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE PLATES 77-85.\#151 ; Figures from camera-lucida drawings executed by Mr. George Brebner .
PLATE 77 .
Catamites .
Fig. 1 .
Transverse section of a very young twig .
The pith is nearly solid , but slby disorganized near the centre .
There are seven vascular bundles , each ji canal .
In most of the canals rings can be seen ( as at which are t !
remains of the primitive tracheae .
Secondary wood , both fascicular and ite fascicular , has just begun to be formed .
The simple cortex is well pres ve C.N. 116* .
X 100 .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse section of a larger twig , but at a still earlier stage of develop The pith is hollow .
There are twelve bundles , each with a canal , on thesml edge of which is the primary xylem .
No secondary tissue has yet apjari The cortex shows little differentiation .
This is another section of thesa : specimen which is shown in Plate 72 , photograph 1 .
C.N. 1561 .
X 5( Fig. 3 .
Part of a transverse section of a larger and more advanced stem , the s\#187 ; e that of which another section is shown in Plate 72 , photograph 2 .
Aon outer zone of pith is preserved .
Two vascular bundles are shown .
Yb twelve layers of secondary wood have been formed .
The narrower elm belong to the secondary medullary rays .
Interfascicular wood is ire formed across the principal rays .
The phloem and cambium are disorgni but their position is evident ( ph ) .
The well-preserved cortex is differed* into two distinct layers .
C.N. 14 .
X 50 .
Fig. 4 .
Oblique section of a young branch ; its cortex was preserved , butb shown .
The pith is hollow .
There are twelve vascular bundles , n canal of each bundle the fragmentary rings and spirals of the pmi tracheae , or protoxylem , are seen , as at px .
They sometimes extendto inner margin of the canal ( see especially the bundle marked a ) .
Oly primary xylem of the bundles exists at this stage .
C.N. 1002 .
X 10 .
Fig. 5 Part of a radial section passing through the primary wood of a bunds , the left are pith-cells .
In the middle is the canal , which is still P9^1 by .the disorganized remains of the protoxylem ( px ) .
The tracheae annular , partly spiral .
Towards the right they become moie Still further to the right we see the persistent scalanform tracheae ( scp primary wood external to the canal .
C.N. 20a .
X 200 .
Fig. 6 .
Part of a transverse section , showing a leaf-trace bundle passing o zontally through the secondary wood .
On the left are pith-ce s , xylem of a bundle parsing into the next internode .
The reticulatedp ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
951 belong to the nodal wood .
The tracheae of the foliar bundle , ft are spiral and scalari form .
C.N. 118# .
X 150 .
PLATE 78 .
Catamites .
' Part of a radial section , showing a leaf-trace bundle passing out through the nodal and secondary wood ; disorganized pith is on the left .
The nodal wood can be distinguished by its short tracheae .
The leaf-trace consists of tracheae ( on some of which the spiral thickening is seen ) and surrounding parenchyma .
The section not being quite in the plane of the outgoing bundle , the latter appears to die out towards the right .
, protoxylem of bundle below the node .
C.N. 22 X 100 .
8 .
Part of a tangential section , showing a leaf-trace bundle cut transversely .
The section passes through the inner part of the secondary wood .
The pitting is almost entirely confined to the radial walls of the tracheae .
The shaded parts of the latter represent the unpitted tangential walls ; the parts left white are in section ; several secondary rays are shown ( as at r ) .
Some of the tracheae show traces of transverse septa , but most of these appearances are due to oblique section of their tangential walls .
The leaf-trace has a gap , where some of its primitive tracheae are disorganized .
It is surrounded by parenchyma .
C.N. 20B .
X 100 .
9 .
A. Short tracheide and neighbouring cells , in tangential section , to show bordered pits .
Towards the parenchyma the border is unilateral ( as at a ) .
C.N. 20a .
( same specimen as 20b , but from a section nearer the pith ) .
X 200 .
B. all between two tracheae , to show bordered pits , in tangential .section .
C.N. 1554 ( shown in Plate 72 , photograph 6 ) .
X 500 .
10 .
Part of radial section , passing through a node .
The pith is to the left .
Above the node part of a primary ray ( r ) is shown .
The canal of a bundle , containing remains of the protoxylem ( ) passes up to the node from below .
The protoxylem is continuous with the innermost elements of the nodal wood .
The rest of the nodal wood is continuous with the persistent primary xylem ( x ) immediately outside the canal .
C.N. 21 .
X 50 . .
11 .
Tangential section , to show course of vascular bundles .
Three outgoing leaf-trace bundles are shown , in transverse section , at the node .
Only the alternate bundles pass out at this node ; the intermediate bundles do not pass out , but fork and attach themselves to the neighbouring strands .
The relatively broad , small-celled rays ( as at v ) show that the section passes near the pith .
C.N. 26 .
x 13 . .
\gt ; .12 .
Part of transverse section , showing cortex and outer layers of wood ) .
KDceexciv.\#151 ; b. 6 f ' 952 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE Remains of the phloem ( ph .
) are seen .
The cortex consists of two disti layers ( c and c ) ; the outer layer becomes more sclerenchymatous towards t periphery .
C.N. 118* .
X 50 .
Fig. 13 .
Another part of the same section showing a phloem-group cambium ( cb ) between wood and phloem is also preserved , and the phlo itself is complete , though crushed .
The large cells above belong to the cor\gt ; ( c ) C.N. 118* .
X 150 .
Fig. 14 .
From the same section , showing a small portion of wood cam'bial efe ( cb)and their derivatives , and cortex ( c ) .
C.N. 118* .
X 150 .
The figs. 12 , 13 , and 14 are from the section , a part of which is shown in Plate 2 Photograph 3 .
PLATE 79 .
Catamites .
Fig. 15 .
Tangential section passing through a principal medullary ray near the ph , On either side are seen tracheides and one or two secondary rays ( as ah ) The principal ray is entirely parenchymatous ; the elements towards ht middle are quite short ; those near the edges are narrower and \#187 ; ri elongated ( m ) .
C.N. 65 .
X 50 .
Fig. 16 .
From another section of the same stem , showing a principal ray fuitie towards the exterior .
The whole ray is narrower ; the marginal cells ( war more elongated , and are already partly replaced by tracheides .
The ray t.th left ( r ) may probably have been cut off from the principal ray by interpose tracheides .
C.N. 66 .
X 50 .
Fig. 17 .
A third section of the same stem , still further towards the exterior .
11 principal ray is no longer continuous , but is completely broken up by ite pointed tracheides .
Some of its isolated parts ( r ) are quite similar to sew ary rays .
C.N. 67 .
X 50 .
Fig. 18 .
Part of a transverse section showing cortex , and a small part of the secoi ai wood ( x ) ; the gap between them was caused by the growth of a Stigmn rootlet , which is not figured .
Remains of the phloem ( ph , are shown .
1* of the cortical cells , especially those at a short distance from the interior , he recent tangential divisions , indicating the formation of periderm ( pd ) .
a slide ( No. 6 ) prepared by Mr. Lomax , in the possession of D. H. ^ X 70 .
Fig. 19 .
Part of a median section , passing through a diaphragm .
The cells tear both surfaces of the diaphragm have undergone regular tangential iv\lt ; \#187 ; ( best shown on the upper surface ) , forming a layer of periderm .
C.N. x 30 .
-a Fig. 20 .
Part of a transverse section passing tangentially through the base of a ' ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
953 which is inserted between two bundles ( v.b. ) of the main stem .
The primary-vascular bundles ( v.b'.)y and interfascicular tissue of the branch are shown , and the connections with the wood of the main stem .
C.N. 132## ( from same stem as the last ) .
X 30* PLATE 80 .
Figs. 21 and 22 .
Catamites .
1 .
Part of a tangential section , passing through the primary wood , and showing the base of a branch .
Near the bottom of the figure the section has touched on the canals of two bundles , and shows their disorganized protoxylem ( .
) .
All the tracheae have tangential pits\#151 ; characteristic of the inner wood .
In the direction of the arrow ( f ) , a foliar bundle is shown .
In the same straight line , further to the right , is another group of cells , which represents a similar bundle at the point when it begins to curve outwards .
The branch has a minute pith , surrounded by groups of primary xylem .
The connection of the latter with the nodal wood of the stem can be clearly seen at the lower side of the branch Secondary wood has only been formed towards the upper side of the branch .
The connection with the wood of the stem is entirely from below .
From a slide ( No. 53 ) prepared by Mr. Lomax , in the possession of D. H. Scott .
X 30 .
22 .
A.Part of a transverse section of a very large stem , showing in median section , the base of an occluded branch .
The pith of the main stem is below the figure .
In the branch the pith tapers towards the base .
The connection of the wood of branch and stem is shown .
Midway between the inner and outer limits of the wood of the stem , at the level indicated by the arrows , the pith of the branch comes to a sudden end , and is replaced by secondary wood seen in transverse section .
X 6 .
B. Portion of same enlarged , showing transition from pith of branch ( p ) to anomalous wood ( x ) in region indicated by the arrows in X 70 .
C.N. 134* .
Figs. 23\#151 ; 26 .
Calamostachys 23 .
From a transverse section of a strobilus , showing the central cylinder or steal of the axis .
The section passed through a fertile node , bearing 7 sporangiophores .
The steal is obtusely triquetrous , with the vascular bundles at its prominent corners .
There appear to have been 7 bundles in all , the projecting points of the xylem ( sp ) mark the places where the bundles passing out to the sporangiophores were given off .
One such bundle is partly preserved ( sp+ ) .
On the inner side of the bundles in the cylinder are Fig. irregular canals , in which remains of the protoxylem ( px ) can be tr All the tissue within the ring of bundles is pith .
A few tangential in fascicular cell-divisions have taken place .
C.N. 991 .
X 70 .
24 .
From a transverse section of another strobilus , showing the steal and of the cortex .
Here there are probably 6 bundles , in groups of 2 ( as at where their protoxylem is shown ) .
Secondary thickening has made consider ) ] progress .
In other respects the structure is similar to that in the last fie C.N. 1016 .
X 70 .
Fig. 25 .
From a transverse section of a strobilus , showing the quadrangular y and part of the cortex .
There are 4 vascular bundles , one at each coiier Tangential divisions have begun in the cells of the interfascicular tiuf px , the 4 groups of protoxylem .
C.N. 1013a .
X 70 .
Compare Plat74 photograph 14 .
Fig. 26 .
Part of a somewhat oblique transverse section , showing a vascular bunts i connection with the cortical tissues .
pith ; x , x , xylem ; px , pt , xylem ; ph , phloem-group ; pc , pc , probable pericycle ; c , c , cortex .
C.N. \gt ; 1 X 200 .
PLATE 81 .
Calamostachys Binneyana .
Fig. 27 .
Part of an approximately median longitudinal section of the axis of aav strobilus .
p , p , the wide pith of the cylinder ; on either side is the xyhn a vascular bundle .
Two canals are shown with remains of ' the protovit ( px ) , ( px ) .
c , c , the cortex , of which only the inner layers are shown .
T section passes through a whorl of sporangiophores .
C.N. 1022a .
X 7\lt ; Fig. 28 .
Tangential section through a vascular bundle of the same strobilus .
1 section passes through a node bearing a whorl of bracts ( the second tei node from below , shown in photograph 10 , on Plate 73 ) .
The canal f !
bundle , with the protoxylem ( px ) , is shown both above and below the 10 The nodal wood has short reticulated tracheides .
In the internod i tracheae are generally scalariform .
The parenchyma on either side Hoi to the steal .
C.N. 1022 .
X 70 .
|| Figs. 27 and 28 are from the same preparations as photographs 10 and l , Plate 73 .
Fig. 27 is from a part not shown in the photographs .
Fig. 29 .
Peltate sporangiophore , with a sporangium attached , from an approxuat transverse section of a strobilus .
The vascular bundle is shown in the xi the sporangiophore , and a branch-bundle is seen passing through the elt expansion , to the base of the sporangium .
The sporangium is attached^ edge of the peltate scale , at a. Within the sporangium are numerous ip tetrads , enclosed in their mother-cell membranes .
C.N. 996 .
X 70 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
955 0 Part of a tangential section of a strobilus , showing a sporangiophore-pedicel .
\ in transverse section , surrounded by its 4 sporangia .
The vascular bundle of the sporangiophore is seen .
Parts of the adjacent whorls of coherent bracts , br , hr , are shown .
Three vascular bundles are shown in the lower , and two in the upper whorl .
C.N. 1023 .
X 50 .
1 .
Details of sporangium-wall , A. In surface view ; " buttresses " seen ( as at bu ) projecting from cell-walls into interior of cells ; B. In transverse section of sporangium ( tangential of strobilus ) .
Here the " buttresses " ( bu ) are seen from the side , with the thin cell-wall between them .
Such a section cuts across the cells shown in A. C. In longitudinal section of sporangium ( transverse or radial of strobilus ) .
Here the narrow edges of the " buttresses " ( bu ) are shown .
Such a section cuts the cells shown in A lengthwise .
The difference in the thickness of the wall in B and C is accidental .
C.N. 1003 .
X 200 .
52 .
Part of a tangential section , passing through the peltate expansions of the sporangiophores ( sp ) , 4 of which are shown , and also part of the whorl of bracts ( br ) between them .
In sp. 1 the right-hand dichotomy of the vascular bundle ( vb ) is well shown .
In sp. 2 the section shows one bundle in transverse section , and a branch-bundle cut longitudinally .
In sp. 3 parts of the vascular bundles are shown .
At two points the section passes through the concavities of the under surface of the scale , and shows part of the wall of 2 sporangia , w. , w. ; br .
, br .
, outline of adjacent bracts .
C.N. 1898a .
X 30 .
33 .
Part of a sporangium containing spore-tetrads .
The extremely unequal size of the different spores of the same tetrad is the point specially illustrated .
In many cases ( as at b ) certain spores appear to be quite abortive .
At a , a matuie spore is shown , with the 3 radiating fissures in its membrane .
C.N. 1007 .
X 100 .
PLATE 82 .
Figs. 34 and 35 .
Calamostachys Binneyana .
34 .
Part of a sporangium containing spore-tetrads , to show abortive spores with normal sister-cells .
In a tetrad towards the left-hand , 3 out of the 4 spores are abortive ( b ) .
C.N. 1011 .
X 100 .
A , B , C , and D. Tetrads and spores more highly magnified .
A. A normal tetrad .
All 4 spores are about equally developed .
C.N. 1005 .
X 200 .
B. A. tetrad in which one spore is abortive .
C.N. 1013a .
X 200 .
C. A tetrad with one abortive spore , and one of intermediate size .
C.N. 1011 .
x 200 .
956 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE D. Two mature spores to show fissures and thickening of the membrane .
C.N. 1007 .
X 200 .
Fig. 35 .
Part of a sporangium , to show layer of parenchyma lining the sporar i wall .
Within this are mature spores .
C.N. 1008 .
X 150 .
Figs. 36-39 .
Calamostachys Casheana .
Fig. 36 .
Transverse section of the axis of the strobilus .
In the middle is the ce : ; ra cylinder , with a large pith , surrounded by 6 vascular bundles .
The struts is the same as in fig. 24 ( Plate 80 ) , from C. Binneyana ( px .
, two of the pin xylem-groups ) .
There is a well-marked zone of radially arranged secorar xylern .
Outside this are remains of thin-walled cells , and surroundingth whole is the well-preserved outer cortex .
The outlines to the exterior are the position of the sporangia .
This is from the same preparation as pbt\lt ; graph 16 , on Plate 74 .
C.N. 1588 .
X 70 .
Fig. 37 .
Section of a macrosporangium ( that marked X in fig. 36 ) , containing seer macrospores ( as at ma ) , and a large number of abortive spores ( as i l There are slight remains of tissue lining the sporangial wall .
C.N. 1588 .
A. Microspores from the tangential section of the same specimen .
1587 .
B. Macrospores and abortive spores .
C.N. 1587 .
C. " " " C.N. 1588 .
All the above X 100 .
Fig. 38 .
Group of four sporangia from a tangential section , with the pedicel of h sporangiophore ( sp. ) between them .
One is a microsporangium ; thetl three are macrosporangia .
Among the macrospores abortive spores arese* Also shown in Plate 74 , photograph 15 .
C.N. 1587 .
X 30 .
Fig : 39 .
Parts of two adjacent sporangia from a tangential section of the *tl specimen of this species .
To the right is a microsporangium , contmi microspores ( mi ) only .
To the left is a macrosporangium , in which one f t macrospores ( ma ) and several abortive spores ( b ) are shown .
C.N. 0 : X 100 .
PLATE 83 .
Figs. 40\#151 ; 44a .
Sphenophyllum plurifoliatum .
Fig. 40 .
Obliquely transverse section of a moderately young stem .
In the midk the triarch primary xylem .
The three protoxylem groups at the angles p-with their small , spiral or reticulated tracheae , are clearly seen .
Them central primary tracheae are pitted .
About four layers of secondary ^ organization of the fossil plants of THE COAL-MEASURES .
957 have been formed .
The parenchymatous cells at the corners of the tracheae are shown .
The wood is surrounded by secondary cortical tissues , probably including both phloem and periderm .
At c , , remains of the primary cortex are present , but only a part of this has been drawn .
C.N. 897 .
X 30 .
L Part of an oblique section , showing a portion of the primary xylem .
In the direction of the arrow ( px ) is a group of protoxylem , with spiral tracheae , partly uncoiled .
Adjoining these below are scalariform tracheae , and below these again are pitted elements .
Above the protoxylem a small portion of the secondary wood is indicated .
C.N. 893 .
X 200 .
2 .
Part of an approximately transverse section , to show secondary wood , 2 ; cambium , cb ; and phloem , ph .
C.N. 882 .
X 70 .
] .
Part of a transverse section ( the same as that shown in photograph 19 on Plate *75 ) ; x , part of primary xylem ; 2 , secondary xylem ; cb , cambium ; ph , phloem ; pd , internal periderm .
C.N. 894 .
X 50 .
L. Part of a radial section through the secondary wood , showing the elongated parenchymatous cells ( as at r ) , passing between the tracheae .
C.N. 884 .
X 50 .
4a .
Part of another , approximately radial section , showing the longitudinal strands of xylem-parenchyma , x.p. , x.p. , and portions of the radial cells connecting them .
C.N. 903 .
X 50 .
Figs. 45 and 46 .
Sphenophyllum 5 .
Approximately transverse section of a young stem , without any secondary thickening .
In the middle is the triarch primary xylem , with protoxylem at the three angles .
Surrounding this are the primary cortical tissues .
C.N. 911 .
X 50 .
16 .
Transverse section of a very young stem , showing part of a whorl of coherent leaves , in which two foliar vascular bundles are seen ( .
) .
The fragments of tissue seen to the exterior are probably portions of leaves .
st = steal of stem .
C.N. 917 .
X 50 .
PLATE 84 .
Sphenophyllum insigne .
47 .
A. Longitudinal median section , passing through a node .
1 , bases of leaves .
X 13 .
H Portion of wood from the same preparation , seen in tangential , but .
somewhat oblique section .
The scalariform markings of the tracheae , and the medullary rays ( r ) are seen .
Of .
fig. 50 .
C.N. 1420 .
X 100 .
958 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE Fig. 48 .
Part of the transverse section of the largest stem , showing secondary^ x2 ; cambium , cb ; phloem , ph ; and internal periderm , pd .
C.N. 914 ^ Fig. 49 .
Part of the secondary wood of the same specimen , in radial section-medullary rays .
C.N. 924 .
X 100 .
Fig. 50 .
Part of the secondary wood of a large stem , in tangential section , show the medullary rays ( r ) , of various heights , and the scalariform pits of tracheae ; compare with fig. 47b .
C.N. 921 .
X 100 .
Fig. 51 .
Part of a transverse section of the largest stem .
3 , secondary wood-cambium ; ph , phloem ; pd , inner layers of periderm .
C.N. 913 .
x 100 Fig. 52 .
Corresponding radial section from the same specimen ; lettering as be Note the elements in the phloem resembling si eve-tubes .
The separation between periderm and phloem is accidental ; in other j ; of the section they are continuous .
The delicate layer which is severe probably phellogen .
C.N. 924 .
X 100 .
PLATE 85 .
Fig. 53 .
Sphenophyllum insigne .
Part of a longitudinal section of the wood , pai through the canal , and showing the spiral tracheae of the protoxylem To the left of the canal is primary xylem , x ; to the right the secor wood , x2 , begins .
The section is somewhat oblique .
From a stem of moderate size , with secondary wood 7-9 cells thick .
922 .
X 100 . .
Figs. 54-58 .
Sphenophyllum Dawsoni .
Fig. 54 .
Part of a longitudinal section of a small strobilus , showing 4 who bracts .
The section is partly radial , partly tangential , x , part of xyl\lt ; axis ; sp , various sporangiophores , showing attachment to bracts .
Fragi of sporangia , and numerous spores , are shown .
C.N. 1898k .
X 15 .
Fig. 55 .
Part of a transverse section , through the whorl of bracts close 1 insertion on the axis .
From the section figured by Williamson , " Org* tion , " Part XVIII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 9 .
Three bundles are shown just separ from one another , b. , bundle going to a bract ; sp , sp , bundles going t\lt ; sporangiophores .
C.N. 1049a .
X 200 .
Fig. 56 .
Corresponding section from the same specimen , taken through the wh bracts , a little higher up than the last .
From the section figure Williamson , loc. cit. , Part XVIII .
, Plate 26 , fig. 2 .
The three bundles now quite separated , and the projecting bases of the sporangiophores are b , bundle going to bract ; sp , sp , bases of sporangiophores .
C.N. 1 X 100 .
f. Transverse section through a sporangium , sm , and its sporangiophore , sp. In the former , delicate tissue lining the wall is shown , and within this the spores .
In the sporangiophore , the xylem of the vascular bundle is evident .
C.N. 1898h .
X 60 .
3 .
Corresponding longitudinal section of a sporangium and part of its sporangiophore , showing the attachment .
The vascular bundle of the sporangiophore is shown .
The section is somewhat oblique .
C.N. 1898e .
X 60 .
PLATE 86 .
contains figures , from photographs , of medullary casts of For description , see text , pp. 896-899 .
e figures are much reduced .
F is rather more than a quarter of natural size ; all the rest are rather more than half natural size .
^cccxciv.\#151 ; b. 6 u

