Prof. 0 .
Heer .
On [ June 17 , tion in other media ; and , lastly , whether by any means the Bacillus might again acquire the power of producing the disease\#151 ; these are questions which can only be determined by further experiment .
X. " On the Miocene Plants discovered on the Mackenzie River .
" By Professor Oswald Heer , of Zurich .
Communicated by Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1880 .
On his return from his " searching expedition " to Arctic America of the year 1848 , Sir John Richardson brought to London a box of fossil plant-remains , which he had collected on the Mackenzie River , between Fort Norman and the Great Bear Lake River , in latitude 65 ' N. The deposits from whence the specimens were obtained had been discovered by Sir Alexander Mackenzie , in 1785 , and visited by Sir J. Franklin and Sir John ( then Dr. ) Richardson in 1825 ; but it was not until his second visit that Richardson was able to bring away specimens ( Journal , vol. i , p. 186 ) .
This first collection contained seventeen specimens , of which only fourteen allowed of exact determination , but it presented features of great interest , as it gave us the first indications of the character of the Miocene Flora of these inaccessible regions of North America .
The importance of procuring more copious materials for the study of these deposits hardly requires to be stated , and , accordingly , in the year 1871 , Mr. Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. , and Dr. John Rae , F.R.S. ( who had himself accompanied Sir John Richardson on his expedition in 1848 , when the first specimens were collected ) , obtained from the Government Grant Committee the sum of \#163 ; 50 to defray the cost of procuring and forwarding to London a collection of these plant-remains .
The actual expenses incurred have , however , fallen far short of the amount received .
The kind offices of Mr. W. Hardisty , Chief Factor of the Hudson 's Bay Company 's Service , were enlisted for the task , which was not an easy one to carry out .
The locality is distant from any inhabited port , and is merely passed by the boats on their annual trading journeys up and down the river , when the men are fully employed in making the best use they can of the short period available for navigation , and have but little time to look for fossils .
More than one attempt was made to send boxes to London ; but as this involved a long journey by boat before they reached the port of shipment , it is not to be wondered at that two or three cases failed to reach their destination .
At last , in the summer of 1879 , Dr. Rae learnt that a box of fossils , addressed to him , was lying at Manitoba 1880 .
] Miocene Plants discovered the Mackenzie River .
561 which eventually was sent by rail to New York , and thence by steamer to London , its contents reaching me in the course of the present spring ( 1880 ) .
The specimens consisted of silicified wood with a number of leaves , partly in soft , but partly also in baked clay .
The nature of the stone corresponds exactly with that in which Richardson 's specimens are embedded ; and as , of the fourteen species represented in the new collection , seven are found in Richardson 's , it is evident that all the specimens come from the same locality .
The same is also true of a few plant fossils recently submitted to me , which have been received by Mr. Scott from the Bishop of Athabasca , who , before leaving England , had readily consented to do what he could to forward the study of the geology of this part of his immense diocese .
If we summarise all the known facts of the Fossil Flora known to occur on the Mackenzie River , we find that there are twenty-three species , of which six are widely disseminated in the Miocene deposits of Europe :\#151 ; Taxodium distichum TJngen , Sequoia Langsdorfii , Corylus M'Quarriiaceroides , and Juglans acuminata .
Not a single one of the species is found in the Eocene of Europe .
The Mackenzie Flora contains six species present also in the Brown-coal Flora of Alaska , viz. , Tax .
distichum , Glypt .
TJngeri , Seq .
Langsd .
, Coryl .
WQuar .
, Jugl .
acuminata , and Viburnum NordensJcioldi .
Eight appear also in the Flora of Saghalien:\#151 ; Tax .
Glypt .
Sequ .
Langsd .
, Corylus M'Quar .
, Jugl .
acum .
, Eedera Quercus Olafseni , and Magndlia No The Flora exhibits just as close a connexion with that of the Arctic Miocene beds .
Thirteen species from Greenland , fourteen from Spitsbergen , five from Grinnell Land , and four from Iceland make their In Canada , to the south of the Mackenzie River , in lat. 49 N. , Tertiary plants have been found in some localities , e.g. , at Porcupine Creek , at Great Valley , and on the Milk River .
The last-mentioned localities have yielded only a few species , and Professor Dawson has determined fifteen from Porcupine Creek.* Of these six are still existing , and one of these species ( sensibilis , L. ) has also been found in the Miocene Tuffs of Mull , in Scotland , and at Fort Union .
To these should be added three species known as Miocene , Glyptostrobus Europceus , Sequoia Langsdorfii , and Populus Not one of the plants described by Dawson occurs in the Eocene of Europe , and in the United States themselves four of the species have been found in the Miocene , while only one ( the ) is possibly admissible as Eocene .
* Vide " Report on the Geology and Resources of the Region in the vicinitj of the 49th Parallel .
" By Gf .
M. Dawson .
Page 328 .
562 Miocene Plants discovered in the Mackenzie River .
[ June 17 , When we , moreover , consider that , according to Dawson 's determinations , one-half the species agree with living forms , while not an individual existing plant is known to occur in the Eocene of Europe , we must certainly range these Porcupine Creek beds with the Miocene and not with the Eocene , where Professor Dawson places them .
Professor Dawson was led to this incorrect conclusion by some remains of Yertebrata found at Milk River .
These , however , occur on a lower horizon than the plant beds on the Porcupine River , as the author himself points out ( \lt ; loc.cit .
, p. 152 ) , and these Milk River beds may be Eocene .
Two species are common to the Mackenzie River and Porcupine Creek , and when Professor Dawson , from this circumstance , concludes that the plants from the former locality are Eocene , he has reasoned on entirely mistaken grounds .
The same remark may be made when he assigns the Tertiary Flora of the Arctic regions to the Lower Eocene .
The plant-remains found at Porcupine Creek , on the Mackenzie River , and in Alaska belong to the northern Miocene Flora of North America , which has a considerable number of species in common with the Miocene Flora of the Frigid Zone , and belongs to a period at which in the Rocky Mountains , in Greenland , and Iceland , as well as in Scotland , Ireland , and on the continent of Europe extensive volcanic eruptions occurred , in which these plant-remains are occasionally found embedded .
If we compare the plants from the Mackenzie River with the Tertiary Flora of the United States , which has been very thoroughly worked up by Professor L. Lesquereux , * we find eight species in common , viz. , Tax .
dist. , Sequ .
Langsd .
, Ung .
, Gor . .
, Pop .
Richards .
, Populus Arctica , Betula and Platanus aceroides ( ?
) .
All these species appear in the Miocene beds of America , but one of them ( Pop .
Arctica ) reaches down into the Oligocene and a second ( the Sequoia ) possibly even down to the Eocene .
The comparison with the Tertiary Flora of the United States , therefore , tends to place the white clay beds of the Mackenzie River among the Miocene , and accordingly corroborates the result based on the proved agreement of the fossils therein contained with the Miocene Flora of Europe and of the Arctic regions .
The specimens of silicified wood have been submitted for micro-scopic examination to M. C. Schroter , Assistant at the Botanical Laboratory of the Polytechnicum of Zurich , and I shall hope to communicate a notice of any results he may attain to the Society .
* L. Lesquereux , " Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western Territories .
II .
The Tertiary Flora .
" Washington , 1878 .

