VIII " On the alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver .
" By FREDERICK W. PAVY , M.D. Communicated by )Dr .
SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 21 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) This communication is an abridgement of a paper bearing the same title presented by the author to the Royal Society in 1858 , with some additional matter , since disclosed by his experimental investigations .
lIe first shows , by analyses , that although the blood collected from the right side of the heart after death , as was formerly done , affords an abundant indication of the presence of sugar , yet that when it is removed from the same part by eatheterism during life , it is found to con-taini but a trace of the saccharine principle .
Inferences , therefore , that have beeni drawn of the ante-mortem state from postmor tem examinations must be abandonied as erroneous .
The heart excised inistantaneously after sudden killing , contains blood as free from sugar as it is during life .
Very slight causes are sufficient to deternmine the presence of a considerable amnount of sugar in the circulation during life .
By simply interfering with the breathing , a strongly diabetic state of the urine may be induced in an hour .
To obtain a fair speciment of blood in its natural condition from the right side of the heart during life , the animal must remain in a perfectly tranquil state during the performance of catheterism .
From some recent experiments , it would appear that the blood il the right side of the heart is not appreciably more saccharine than the blood in the portal vein .
As iii the case of the blood , the hitherto adopted mode of examination of the liver has , in the author 's opinioni , led to a fallacious inference of its physiological state .
It contains a material which is exceedingly susceptible of undergoing transformation into sugar by a process of the character of fermentation .
Acids , alkalies , extreme cold , and a heat sufficient to coaguilate and destroy the ferment , check this transformation .
And by these agencies it may be shown , that if the liver contain any sugar at the moment of death , it is only to the extent of the merest trace .
The saccharine state of the liver , which has been hitherto looked upon as beloliging to life , is the result of a povt-mortem change which takes place with an astonishing rapidity .
The particular part played by the liver in reference to the point under consideration , is to form a material which was originally called the glucogeinic substance .
As it is not considered by the author that this material is really a sugar-forming substance under physiological conditions , he has styled it hepatine , as belonging to the liver .
This substance is doubtless intended for a special and important purpose in the economy , but what this purpose precisely is , must be left for the present as an open question .
As one of its properties , it is most susceptible of undergoing transformation into sugar .
Although in contact with a ferment , yet it resists , unider natural circumstances during life , this kind of transformiation .
Immediately , however , that life is destroyed , the ordinary laws of chemnistry come into operation , and a change into sugar is effected .
Abnormal states of the circulation , and probably of the blood , also lead to a similar production .
Certain altered states of the nervous system likewise occasion am extensive formation of sugar in the system .
2 After division of the spinal cord just below the phreni s , the temperature fills , and the transformation of hepatine inlto sugar after death is so slow , that the process is easily recognized under its true light .
In the livers of animals naturally of low temperature , such as the frog , the oyster , and the mussel , it is a matter of the greatest facility to show that the organ is free from sugar during life , or at the period of death .
The ingestion of starchy and saccharine substances leads to a great accumulation of hepatine in the liver .
The liver itself becomes also greatly increased in size .
The average weight of the liver fin eleven dogs fed upon an aninal diet was.th that of the animal .
An analysis of seven of the livers gave an average per-centage of hepatine amounting to 7-19 .
Five dogs upon a vegetable diet gave an average weight of liver equal to TL-rth that of the animal .
An analysis of three of the livers gave an average per-centage of hepatine amounting to 17 23 .
Four dogs upon a diet of auiimal food with a large admixture of sugar , gave an average weight of liver equal to j2th of that of the anlimal .
An analysis of the four livers gave a per-centage of hepatine precipitate amounting to 14-5 .
Experiments made upon the rabbit confirm these results obtained upon the dog , showing that saccharine and amylaceous materials received as food are converted by the liver into hepatine .
The author looks upon this as a strong fact in opposition to the glueogenie theory .
He conceives it to be int the highest degree improbable that sugar should be transformed inlto hepatine by the liver for the pulrpose of coming back againi into sugar in the same organ .
In the transformation of hepatine into sugar in the liver after death , the average of four analyses gives a loss of one part and a half of hepatine for the production of one part of sugar .
I1epatine stands in direct opposition to sugar in regard to its property of diffusibility .
Its power of diffusion the author has found to be so low , that it does not pass at an ordinary pressure through animlal membrarnes .
Sugar and hepatine being mixed together and placed on one side of a piece of bladder in an endosmotic apparatus , the sugar diffuses itself and leaves the hepatine behind .
This physical property of hepatine harmonizes with its retention in , the hepatic cel1s umidor a natural state of the circulation .
Ligature of the portal vein causes the liver to become strongly saccharine .
The blood also in the system gives a stronig reaction of sugar ; and in one experiment the urine yielded just a traceable indication with the copper solution .
The fact that the blood thus becomes saccharine on interrupting the flow of blood through the portal vein , stands directly in opposition to the result that might have been expected under the glucogenic theory .
In a communication presented to the Royal Society in 1859 , it was shown that injury to certain parts of the sympathetic system produces most rapidly a strongly diabetic state .
It has since been found that the introduction of carbonate of soda largely into the circulation altogether prevents this effect .

