262 The Totation of the Electric Arc. [ June 21 , VII .
" The Rotation of the Electric Arc. " By Alexander Pelham Trotter , B.A. Communicated by Silvanus P. Thompson , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1894 .
In the course of experiments made with the view of realising as a practical standard of light , the method of using one square millimetre or other definite area of the crater of the positive carbon of an electric arc , * the author has found that the effective luminosity is not as theory would predict , f either constant or uniform .
By the use of a double Rumford photometer , giving alternating fields , as in a Vernon Harcourt photometer , his attention was called to a bright spot at or near the middle of the crater .
The use of rotating sectors accidentally revealed that a periodic phenomenon accompanied the appearance of this bright spot , and although it is more marked with a short humming arc , the author believes that it is always present .
An image of the crater was thrown on a screen by a photographic lens ; and a disc having 60 arms and 60 openings of 3 ' , and rotating at from 100 to 400 revolutions per minute , was placed near the screen .
Curious stroboscopic images were observed , indicating a continually varying periodicity seldom higher than 450 per second , most frequently about 100 , difficult to distinguish below 50 per second , and becoming with a long arc a mere flicker .
The period seemed to correspond with the musical hum of the arc , which generally breaks into a hiss at a note a little beyond 450 per second .
The hum is audible in a telephone in the circuit , or in shunt to it .
The current was taken from the mains of the Kensington and Knights-bridge Electric Light Company , often late at night , after all the dynamos had been shut down .
The carbons were , of course , not cored ; six kinds were used .
A rotating disc was arranged near the lens , to allow the beam to pass for about 1/ 1000th of a second , and to be cut off for about l/ 100th of a second .
It was then found that a bright patch , occupying about one quarter of the crater , appeared to be rapidly revolving .
Examination of the shape of this patch showed that it consisted of the bright spot already mentioned , and of a curved appendage which swept round , sometimes changing the direction of its rotation .
This appendage seemed to be approximately equivalent to a quadrant sheared concentrically through 90 ' .
Distinct variations in the luminosity of the crater are probably due to the fact that this is only an approximation .
* J. Swinburne and S. P. Thompson , discussion on paper by the author , * Inst. Electrical Eng./ vol. 21 , pp. 384 and 403 .
t Abney and Festing , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1881 , p. 890 ; S. P. Thompson , 'Soc .
Arts .
Journ./ vol. 37 , p. 332 1894 .
] Electric Strength of Mixtures of Nitrogen , fyc .
263 The a priori theory of the constant temperature of the crater is so attractive , that the author is inclined to attribute this phenomenon , not to any actual change of the luminosity of the crater , or to any wandering of the luminous area , as is seen with a long , unsteady arc , but to the refraction of the light by heated vapour .
All experiments , such as enclosing the arc in a small chamber of transparent mica , or the use of magnets , or an air blast , have failed to produce any effect .
A distortion of the image of the crater while the patch revolves , has been looked for , but nothing distinguishable from changes of luminosity has been seen .
An unexpected difficulty is thus introduced in the use of the arc as a standard of light , and one which may interfere with its use under some circumstances as a steady and continuous source of light .
The author is further examining this phenomenon , with the view of ascertaining its nature , and of finding practical conditions under which it is absent or negligible .
VIII .
" The Electric Strength of Mixtures of Nitrogen and Hydrogen .
" By Miss P. G. Fawcett .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
The experiments described in this paper were undertaken at Professor Thomson 's suggestion , and have been carried out with the advantage of his advice and help .
The immediate object of the experiments was to determine the electromotive force required to produce a spark between two flat parallel metal plates in a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen in different proportions and at different pressures .
The hydrogen used was obtained by electrolysis of water , as it was found that that obtained in the ordinary way from zinc and hydrochloric acid was liable to contain impurities which seriously affected its electric strength .
The two gases were collected over water in a graduated cylindrical gas-holder , and were allowed to stand for some hours to give them time to mix before being put into the apparatus .
The mixture was passed through sulphuric acid , and also through cotton wool to remove dust .
The electromotive force was supplied by a battery of storage cells , each of about 2 volts , and was measured simply by counting the number of cells .
The strength of the cells was measured by a quadrant electrometer .
At very low pressures it was found that , unless special precautions were taken to prevent the discharge passing anywhere except between

