II .
" Proceedings of the Council of the Royal Society with reference to the undertaking of certain Physical Observations in India .
" Communicated to the Society by direction of the President .
On the 13th of February 1866 , J. S. N. Ilennessey , Esq. , First Assistant on the Trigonometrical Survey of India , addressed a letter to the President , in which , after explaining the nature of the calls upon his time occasioned by his professional duties , he offered to devote any portion of his leisure to such scientific experiments as the President might direct .
He stated that he was resident at Mussoorie from May to October , residing at Dehra during the remainder of the year , from which place , however , he would be able to visit Mussoorie occasionally .
, such as once a week .
Mussoorie is a hill-station or town , at an altitude above the sea-level of about 6700 feet , in lat. 30§ 28'N .
, and long .
78§ 10 ' E. With reference to the climate of this place he observes , " In September the skies begin to clear , and from September 15 to about December 15 there prevails at Mussoorie a clearness of atmosphere such as I have never known in my wanderings .
I mention this period in particular ; but at all times , when the sky is clear of clouds , the intensity of the heavenly bodies is something exquisite .
I have seen Venus distinctly at midday with my unaided eye .
It is this wonderful transparency of atmosphere to which I would draw particular attention .
" This letter was read to the Council on the 28th of June , and was ordered to be printed , and the President was requested to communicate it to such men of science as he might see fit , with the view of obtaining suggestions with reference thereto .
The President accordirngly communicated the letter to several scientific men , accompanied by a request that they would favour him with suggestions as to observations which it might seem to them desirable that Mr. Hennessey should be requested to take up .
Answers were received during the recess ; and on the 11th of October a Committee was appointed to draw up a report upon Mr. Ilennessey 's letter , giving specific indications as to the observations in meteorology and with the spectroscope which it might be desirable to make .
Before the Committee presented their report another subject of great scientific interest presented itself in connexion with India .
On the 17th of August in the present year will occur a total solar eclipse of nearly the greatest possible duration .
This eclipse will be visible in India , but elsewhere only in parts of the earth which are comparatively unicivilized or difficult of access .
The subject was accordingly taken into consideration by the Committee ; and both objects are embraced in their report , which is here appended .
" Report of the Conmmittee on Mr. Hennessey 's Letter concernng Astronomical Observations in India .
cIn making a selection of subjects to which they suggest that Mr. Ilennessey 's attention might advantageously be directed , the Committee have bornie in mind that that gentleman 's professional duties necessarily occupy the greater part of his time and attention .
They have therefore abstained from recommending researches which , though desirable in themselves , would require for their successful prosecution that the observer should devote his maini attention to them , or which , though less laborious , are of such a nature as to admit of being equally well carried on elsewhere .
" § 1 .
The determination of the order of brightness of the fixed stars by the mnethod of sequences , as described by Sir John Herschel in his Cape Observations , is one for which the extraordinary clearnless of atmosphere described by Mr. Helnnessey offers peculiar advantages , and which , losing absolutely nothing in value by being taken up in a disconnected mianniier , is eminently suitable for leisure hours .
It requires the use of a good star map , but no apparatus .
The peculiar clearness of atmosphere at Mussooric does not , it is true , extend over a very large part of the year ; but by making observations sometimes in the early part of the night , sometimes towards morning , a large part of the heavens might be brought under scrutiny without inicluding stars too near the horizon to give trustworthy results more especially as favourable nights might occasionally occur at other times of the year .
The time at which the comparison of two stars was made should always be noted , in order to render it possible subsequently to make a correction for zenith-distance .
" When numerous observations takeen on different occasions have been compared , should any particular star be found to exhibit unusual discrepancies , giving rise to the suspicioIn that it might be a periodic star , such star would nlaturally claim special attentioni , and should be frequently observed in comparison with a few selected stars near it in brightness , with a view to test its periodicity-and in case of colnfirmation to determine the period , and maximum and minimum brightness .
" ' § 2 .
It would be well if Mr. HIennessey would also watch the zodiacal light , after suniset about the months of April and May , and before sunrise at the opposite time of year , with a view to defining its form and extent , and also noticing anything which may be held to indicate whether it be lenticular or annular .
cc A rough spectroscopic observation of the object , if the light be not too feeble to allow of it , might be valuiable , and an examinationi of the light for polarization with a double-image prism .
" § 3 .
The climate of Mussoorie would make actinometric observations at that place especially interesting .
( On account of the fragility of the well-known instrument invented by Sir John Eerschel , it is proposed to employ the actilnometer of Mr. Hodgkinison .
At least two instruments should be provided , which would allow of simultaneous observations at different altitudes being taken when the services of a second observer could be obtained .
It seems desirable , as suggested by Mr. iHodgkinison , that an actinometer should be preserved at Kew , to furnish a fixed though arbitrary scale for reference , and that the instruments sent out should be compared before departure with the Kew standard , and their coefficients of reduction to the Kew scale determined .
" § 4 .
Much attention has recently been bestowed on the atmospheric lines of the solar spectrum ; and it appears to be pretty well established that they are , partly at least , due to absorption by watery vapour .
The extreme clearness of atmosphere at M1ussoorie would seem to render this a desirable subject of investigationi at that place , provided a clear view of the sun can be obtained , either at rising or at setting , down to the horizon , or at least to a very low altitude ; and such the Committee are informed is the case .
" For this purpose the observer should be provided with a spectroscope of similar power to that with which Fraunhofer 's or Kirchhoff 's excellent map of the spectrum was constructed .
It is proposed to take the latter as a basis on which to work , but that the observer should confine his attention , at least in the first instanlce , to the region extending from the extreme red to the line E. The spectrum should first be observed when the sun is high , and compared with Kirchhoff 's map .
Should any lines represented in the map not be found , and slhould the want not be due to inferior spectroscopic power , ( which may be judged of by comparing neig , hbouring linies of similar strength with their represenitation in the map , ) such missing lines should be lnoted as linies probably atmospheric included in the map .
Then the spectrum should be observed at low altitudes of the sun , and the lines seen in addition to those in the inap measured and drawn .
Differential measures referring the additional lines to those represented in the map would be sufficient .
Anv remarkable inicrease of breadth of a linle , too great to be accounted for merely as a result of decreasinr illumination , and proved by direct observation , by weakening the light when the sun is high , not to be referable to that cause , should also be noted .
The lines in the map which were missed when the sun was high should n1ow he sought for ; for if really atmospheric they would be sure now to come out strotngly , unless indeed they were produced by exceptionlal atmosplheric conditions .
The time at which the drawings were madle sliould also be noted , from which the slun 's altitudle could afterwards be calculated if desired ; and the hygrometric condition of the air tat the time , the direction of the wind , the character of the clouds , and any electr ic discharges which might occur should be mentioned .
" In this way we should gradually obtain from independent observation a map of the purely terrestrial lines .
In the construction of the map much must be left to the discretion of the observer , as the appearance changes rapidly with the varying altitude of the sun .
When constructed , the map ought to be repeatedly compared with the object , with a view to determine whether the system of atmospheric lines be single , or consist of two or more systems superposed .
Should two gases possessing the power of definite absorption be present , as it is not likely that they would occur in the same proportion on different occasions , and under different conditions of weather , the complex character of the atmospheric system , if it be complex , would thus probably be in time revealed .
The map should also be compared with the mtiap drawrn by Sir David Brewster and Dr. Gladstone , from observations made in Englanid and Scotland ( Philosophical Transactions for 1860 ) .
5 .
In connexion with the offer made by Mr. HIennessey , the Committee have had under their consideration the subject of the total solar eclipse of riext year , which will be visible in India .
As it will be long before equal facilities for observing the phenomnena of the totality recur , it seems desirable not to lose this opportunity of making some physical observations on the phenomenon , which at the present time are of great interest .
Above all , the character of the spectrum of the red protuberances may be expected to throw great light on their nature ; and it is therefore important to be prepared with an instrument for observing their spectrum , and that of the corona .
It is also important that fresh observations should be made on the polarization of the light of these objects .
" In order that a sufficient apparent breadth may be given to the red protuberances to permit of the convenient observation of any lines by which their spectrum may be crossed , it is necessary to use a tolerably high magnifying-power ; and in order that this may be done with the least possible loss of light , a corresponding aperture is required in the telescope to be employed .
M'iessrs .
Cooke and Sons have on hand a fne telescope of 5 inches aperture , mounted as a portable equatorial , furnihsled with clock movement , which iucy be obtained for a moderate sum ; and the Committee recommend that this instrument be puirchased , with such part of the inounting as is required for the observations contemplated , and be provided with a star-spectroecope .
They understand that Lieutenant Herschel , who is now in this country , and is going out to India in the course of a few moniths , would be willing to undertake the observations , subject to the approval of Colonel Walker , the Director of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
But as clouds might interfere with the observations by the large instrtumenit at the critical moment , the Comumittee think it desirable that three or four direct spectroscopes , by which the general character of the spectrum might be observed , should be entrusted to ColoInel Walker to be placed in the hands of observers at different stations .
" The observation of the polarization would also require the use of a telescope , which , however , may be of much smaller size , such as 2 inlches aperture , and will therefore be comparatively inexpensive .
" The Committee estimate that the whole cost of the inistruments they have recommended , for the use both of AMr .
I-lennessey and of those gentlemen who mayuidertake the observations of the eclipse , will be under ?
300 .
" This Report was presented to the Council on the 20th of June , 1867 .
The Council aclopted the report and requested the Committee to take the requisite steps for carrying , oult their recommendations .
They further resolved that application be made to the Government-grant Committee for a sum of not exceeding ?
300 to defray the expenses , and that the Treasurer be authorized to make such advances within that sum as might in the meantime be required to enable the Committee to proceed with the work .
Mr. Huggins kindly undertook to superinitelnd the colnstruction of the instriuments , and to give instruction in the use of the star-spectroscope to the observer who might be selected to observe the spectrum of the red protuber'ances ; and it is mainly owing to Mr. I-lugginis 's zeal in the cause that the instruments have all been got ready within the limited time allowed .
The following instructions were drawn up for the guidance of the observers who might be en-trusted with the observations which it was intended to make on the occasion of the total solar eclipse:_ Instrutctions respecting certain observations to be nacle in India on the occasion of the Total Solar Eclipse of 1868 , by mneains of Instrutments sent out by the Royal Society .
" ?
I. Special Olbects of the Observations proposed to be made .
According to modern opinion , the photospbere of the sun consists of a shell of liquid or solid particles , conistantly forming by condensation in the outer layers of the intensely heated gaseous matter of the sun .
When nearly the whole of the light from the solar photosphere is screened off by the moon during a total solar eclipse , two other , feebler sources of light without the sun1R 's photosphere usually show themselves .
Olle of these is in the form of an irregularly bright halo suirrouinding the sun , and is known as the Corona .
The other source of light usually presents itself as small tonguie-slhaped flamiies more or less coloured , wihich apparently issue forth from the solalr photosphere .
" C The special object of the observationis suggested is to determine , as far as may be possible , the physical niature of the ' Corona ' and of the 'Reclames .
' " To obtain this informationi it is proposed to analyze the light from .
these sources for polarizationi , and especially to observe its prismatic spectrutm in both cases .
2D " If these objects are visible by reflecting to us the light of the photosphere , their spectra would be idenitical , or nearly so , with the normal solar spectrum .
If , however , either the 'corona ' or the ' red flames ' are selfluminous .
a supposition which appears not improbable in the case of the red flames , some informationi as to their co01stitution may be expected to be given to us by the prism .
" ?
II .
Descrziption oJfInstruments sent out by the Royal Society .
" The telescope provided for the spectrum-observations has any objectglass of five inches aperture .
The telescope is mounted on a portable equatorial stand , with circles for declinationi and R. A. , divided on silver .
The stand can be adjusted to any latitude ; and the whole instrumenit packs inlto three boxes for convenience in travelling .
" The telescope has a very perfect driving-clock , the rate of which is maintained uniform by means of a form of p)endulum governor recenltly invented by Mr. Cooke , by whom the whole instrument has been specially constructed for these observationis .
A Barlow lens is fitted to the telescope for the purpose of increasing the size of the image formed by the object-glass .
The finder is wired in a special manner , and has a diagonal eyepiece for convenience in looking from it to the small telescope of the spectrum-apparatus attached to the equatorial telescope .
" The spectroscope , constructed by Messrs. Simms , has one prism of dense flint glass , with a reflecting angle of 60 ? .
The instruimenit is furnished with a micrometer-screw for measuring the position in the spectrum of any lines observed .
There is also provided a photographed scale illuminated by a small lamp , which can be seen .
by reflectioni from the second surface of the prism .
The positionis of lines in the spectra observed can be read by ineans of the reflected image of the divisions of this scale .
" The slit of the instrument is so constructed that both jaws open equally .
A cylindrical lens is provided for the observationl of stellar spectra .
The instrument is furniished with a prism and mirror , by means of which the spectra of terrestrial flames can be compared directly with the spectra of the objects to which the telescope is directed .
" Four portable hand spectrurm-telescopes are provided , by means of which it will be possible to determinie the general character of the spectra of the lights seen about the stuni at the time of the eclipse .
" For the purpose of anialyzing the light of the 'corona ' and 'red flames ' for polarization , a seconid telescope has been procured , of three incehes aperture .
This instrument has altitude and azimuth motions on a portable tripod stand .
It is furnishied with three eyepieces , magnifying 27 , 41 , and 98 diameters .
By a suitable arrangement of adapters , either of the following analyzers can instantly be used either in connexion with eyepiece 27 diameters or eyepiece 41 diameters .
" The first analyzer consists of a double-image prism , and a plate of quiartz cut perpendicularly to the axis .
When polarized light is pieseiut in the object viewed , both images become strongly coloured with complementary tints .
" The second analyzer is formed of a Nicol 's prism and as stem of quartz cut obliquely , known as Savart 's polariscope .
" It is almost certain that the light from the objects will be polarized in a plane passing through the radius of the sun , if at till ; and arranigements may be made accordingly .
Nevertheless , if time permits , are ough determination of the plane of polarization , in case the light should prove to be more or less polarized , would be desirable .
The plane may be determined roughly by the first analyzer by noticing the azimuth of the analyzer when either image ( specifyig which ) assumes the 'tint of passage ' ( a purple in which blue and red are equally balanced ) , more accurately by the second , by observing the azimuth at which the bands disappear , and stating whether on turning in a given direction from this Fosition the bands seen are black-centred or white-cenitred , or , which is better , wheln the polarization is but slight , by observing the azimuth at which the bands are most vivid , and stating the character ( black or white ) of the cenitral band .
" ?
III .
Instructions as to the general mnethod of the observations to be made .
" i. In order that the observer may acquire the niecessary familiarity with the use of the spectroscope , it is recomnm-iended that he apply himself as far as his other engagements may permit , during the time after his arrival in India until the period of the eclipse , to a prismatic examination of the brightest of the Southerni Nebule .
" The instruments sent out by the Royal Society are in every respect suitable and convenient for these observations .
The determination of the character of the spectra of the more brilliant of the Southern Nebulme would be a service for science of very great value .
" It is recommenlded that the observer provide himself with a list of , say , from fifty to a hundred of the brightest of the Nebulae the distanice of which from the north pole prevents an advantageous study of them in the latitude of En , gland .
From this list the observer would select each night the Nebulae which , at the time of observation , were situated near the rmeridian .
The equatorial mouniting , with its finely divided circles , would make the finding of the Nebulme a task of no difficuLlty .
" The observer should first make a diagram and general description of the nebula as it appears in the telescope .
The object should next be examined with the spectroscope added to the telescope .
The telescope should then be moved so as to bring in succession upon the slit the different parts of the nebula .
The wire arranged for that purpose in the finder would enable the observer to determine with accuracy the part of the nebula under examiniation .
" At the commencement of the observation the slit shotuld be widely open , and the observer should then make it as narrow as the light of the object would permit .
In this way the character of the spectrum of each portion of the nebula could be recorded in connexion with the description of its appearanice which had been already made .
If the spectrum should be discontinuous , the positions of the bright lines should be measured by the micrometer-screw , or by the reflected scale .
It is recommended that the screw should be used in preference to the scale whenever it is found practicable to do so .
" For the purpose of obtaining the value of the micrometer-screw and of the scale , measures should be frequently taken of the principal lines of Fraunhofer .
These measures should be taken as near the time when the observations are to be made as possible .
As a precaution against any accidental displacemeent of any part of the instrument , at the timie of observing the nebulae , a reading should be takeni of the sodium line ( D of Fraunhofer ) by means of a small alcohol lamp placed before the objectglass of the telescope .
" A series of observations of the prinicipal Southern Nebulm would be of very great value in the present state of our knowledge , and would certainly repay the entire cost of the instru-ment , should bad weather , or some unforeseen accident render the primary object , the investigation of the sun , inmpossible .
" The observer should also practise himself with observing the spectrum of the moon , and of a cloud brightly illuminated by the moon , in order to become familiar with the appearance of spectra which are continuous , except so far as they may be interrupted by dark lines , and which come from objects rather deficient in illumination .
" i. InstrLuctions for the spectrum-observations of the eclipse .
" The equatorial telescope should be previously put up accurately in position , within a suitable temporary hut or observatory .
The clockworkl is to be adjusted to sun 's apparent motion .
The Barlow lens is to be employed , and placed within the focus at a distanee sufficient to double , or nearly so , the diameter of the sun 's image .
" C Great care must be taken that the finder is in perfect adjustment , so that the spectrum of any object brouight upon the point of the indicating wire may with certainty be visible when the eye is placed to the little telescope of the spectrum-apparatus .
" It will be well for the observer to decide previously whether he intends to make use of the mnicrometer &gt; screw , or of the illulminated scale .
Still he is requested to have the small lamp lighted , and both methods of measuiring in proper order , so that either couLld be available instantly during the duration of the totality .
" During the progress of the eclipse , both.a before and after the totality , the observer is to take measures of the lines of Fratunhofer , with the micrometer , and also with the scale .
" The measures obtained of the eclipse , and which heave been made in the interval betweein the two sets of observationis of the solar linies , can thus be referred to them , and the positionis on the spectrum of the lines accurately determined relatively to the lines of Fraunhofer .
" The finder is provided with a diagonial eyepiece , over which a wedge of dark glass is made to slide .
" The observer is expected to watch the progress of the eclipse in the finder , moving the wedge of glass as the light of the suni dlimiinislhes .
" As soon as he perceives a 'red prominence , ' by meanis of the very efficient arrangements provided in the instrument , he is to bring the red prominence upon the point of the indicating wire .
The observer will then see the spectrum of the ' red flame ' .
in the little telescope of the spectroscope .
" At the commencement of the observations the lowest eyepiece should be used , and the slit should not be too narrow .
The observer is first to record the general character of the spectrum , whether conitinuous or discontinuous .
" Then the principal lines , whether dark or bright , are to be measured with as much care as the very limited time will permit .
" As the spectrum of the red prominenice is compound , and contains the spectrum of the light of the portioni of corona before it ( possibly also to some extent of the coronia behinid it ) , suifficient time must be left to move the instrument so as to bring upon the slit a part of the corona where it is brightest .
" The character of the spectrumn must be in .
a similar manner exam.ined , and any linies present measured .
" Of course , if there should be found time to do so , it would be desirable that several red prominences should be examined , and also light from different parts of the corona .
The observer , however , is stron , gly recommended to make as complete an anialysis as possible of the 'red flame ' first selected .
" The observer is requested to selnd in full all the details of the observations as they were taken down at the time .
A Clerk will be required to write downl the results at the moment from the dictation of the observel .
" iii .
The use of the portable hand spectrum-telescopes will be obvious .
The observer h-ias only to direct the instrument to the sun at the moment of totality .
The instrum'ient should be previously focused to suit the observer , upon the inoon or some distalnt object .
The light of the corona and red flames will be dispersed inito its component colours .
It will be easily detected whether the spectra of the corona and of the red flames are continuous , or consist of bright lines .
The four instruments should be placed in the hands of observers stationled at different places along , or nearly alon- , the central line of the eclipse .
" iv .
Observations for polarized li ght in the corona and 'red flarmes .
' " A distinct ob)server is required for these observations .
I'le shotuld be familiar with the telescope and its motions .
" A small observing-hut , or temporary place of shelter , would be probably necessary .
It is recommenided that the eyepiece magnifying twenty-seven diameters be used .
" The observer should fix upon the eye-end of the telescope a disk of cardboard some 12 or 15 inches diameter , which , near the edge , may be roughly divided by a few large figures , which cani be easily read in the feeble light which prevails dtiring the totality .
To the small tubes carrying the analyzing prisms a lonu index of card should be attached .
In this way the plane of polarization may be read off notwithstanding the feebleness of the light .
" With a dark glass the observer is to watch the progress of the eclipse until the whole of the sun is obscured .
The dark glass is then to be removed , and the corona and red flames observed for traces of polarized light .
" There are two analyzers provided .
" The observer is to use first the double-image prism and plate of quartz .
A slight degree of polarization will show itself by a differenice of colour in the two images .
" An attempt slhould then be made to determine approximately the plane in which the light is polarized .
" If polarization is detected in the 'corona , ' or in any prominence of large extent , the second analyzer may probably be employed with advantage .
This consists of a Nicol 's prism and a compound plate of quartz , showing Savart 's bands .
By means of these bainds , the plane of polarization of the light analyzed may be easily obtained .
" The observation of the spectra of the coronia and red protuberances being one of considerable delicacy , it was highly desirable that the observer should have some previous trairling in this country , while , on the other hand , to send such an observer on purpose would involve considerable expenise .
It fortunately happened that Lieut. J. I-Ierschel was at the time in this counitry , and was about to return to India in November 1867 , to resume his duties in colnnexion with the great Trigonometrical Survey of that counitry .
Mr. LHerscliel took a livelv initerest in the subject , and at once , on being applied to , undertook the observations which were to be made with the large telescope fturnished with the spectroscope , subject to the approval of Colonel 'Walker , Director of the Survey .
This approval was readily given , as will appear from the following letter : Colonel Walker to General Sabine , August 17th .
" IDebra Done , vi.a Bombay , :17th Angust , 1867 .
" MY DEAR SIR , -I have to acknlowledge your letter of the 30th June , forwaarding a copy of the Report of the Comm-ittee appointed by the Presidenit and Counicil of the Royal Society , to take into consideration Mr. HTennessey 's letter of the 13th February , 1866 .
" learn with satisfaction that the President and Council have deecded on purehasing a telescope equatorially mounted , and furnished with clockmovement and a star spectroscope , to be employed in a close examination of the physical phenomena which may be observable during the solar eclipse of next year also that other instruments are to be provided , to enable Mr. Helnnessey to undertake the researches which he is willing to devote himself to in hiis brief intervals of leisure from the professional duties which necessarily occupy the greater part of his time and attention .
" I am glad to find that my assistant , Lieuternant I-erschel , has placed him.self in communication with the Committee , and will receive the fullest instruction as to the employment of the itnstruments .
" It will be a pleasure to me to do all in my power to carry out your wishes .
I expect little or no difficulty in the practical arrangements regardiD g the eclipse ; for it will fortunatelv happen during the recess season , when our officers can be more easily spared from their professional duties than at any other time of the year .
" I remaini , with sincere regard , faitlifully yours , ( Sigtned ) " J. C. WALKER .
" The instruments , both those for Mr. I-Iennessey and those inteinded to be used on the occasion of the total solar eclipse , were ready in time to be senit out under the care of AMr .
Herschel ; and the following letter to the Secretary , recently received from him , announces their safe arrival : " K Bangalore , Jan. 23rd , 1868 .
" DEAR SIR , -I fear I have hardly donie right in delaying so long to inform you of the safe arrival of the instruime nts entrusted to me by the Rloyal Society .
" My present occupations absolutely forbid my elndeavouring to enter into details ; and it is only from a strong feeling that at least so much shotuld be said that I sit down to write at all , at a time when scarcely a moment is my own .
" I have made myself tolerably familiar with the equatorial and spectroscope , and with the appearance of solar , lunar , and stellar spectra , and on one or two occasionis have attempted to obtain a view of a niebular spectr-um-with tolerable success I believe ; but hitherto , whatever time and opportunity , and , I may add , energy , have been available , have been devoted to preliminary examinationi and manipulation rather than actual ernployment of the instrumental means .
In some respects this has beenl very necessary , as the parts , never having been employed together , were not at first capable of being connected , &amp;c. The next two months will be fully occupied by the work in which I am now taking a part the measurement of a Base-linie ; and I cannot devote more than an occasionial half hour to the employment of the Society 's instri ments .
" After that , however , I shall have more leisure ; and havingo full permission to regard the eclipse-observations as a principal subject of attention , I shall have nlo excuse for not prosecutino preliminary arrangeinents , and for not forwarding fuller information of my success or otherwise .
11 I am , Sir , yours very truly , " 1 J. IIERSCIHEL .
"

