540 Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the [ Feb. 8 , half of Rajputana .
In the fourth part are discussed the general distribution ( as regards both space and season ) of temperature and rainfall , and the variations of the wind ; first with respect simply to the physical geography of the country , and then in combination with certain theoretical views , the elucidation of which , by means of the dynamical theory of heat and the kinetic theory of gases , occupies much space .
Nearly half the memoir is devoted to the work of the Col aba Observatory , of the history of which a short sketch is given .
The design of this part is to give a compendious account of the results of a long and continuous maintenance of the Observatory , both in the shape of numerical determinations of meteorological elements and of their periodical and other variations , and in throwing light by means of these upon the physical conditions and actions which give rise to the observed relations between different phenomena , and to the variation of these relations with time .
In the course of the work the author introduces several new modes of picturing clearly to the mind , and of representing graphically , the general results of the various phenomena observed : he also develops a theory of aerial circulation , including a dynamical theory of convection-currents , which is original , and , so far as he knows , put forth now for the first time .
February 8 , 1877 .
Dr. GUY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Hindoo Division of the Octave , with some additions to the Theory of the Higher Orders .
" By R. H. M. Bosanquet , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by Prof. Henry J. S. Smith , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
Received January 5 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) Attention has been recently directed to the remarkable division of the octave into 22 intervals , employed by the Hindoos .
The paper commences with a slight account of the Hindoo scales as thus derived .
It is 1877 .
] Hindoo Division of the Octave .
then remarked that our best way to a real analysis of this music would be to study the system of 22 and compare the results with those actually obtained by Hindoo musicians .
The methods which have been employed in the writer 's former paper on the subject* are then extended to the higher orders , which have not been before thoroughly discussed .
The system of 22 is a system of the second order ; and the nature and peculiarities of such systems , and of the system of 22 in particular , are discussed .
A classification of systems of the higher orders according to their mode of forming thirds is advanced .
If the system be arranged in successive series of fifths , differing by one unit in pitch , then the system is said to be of class x , if the third of any note is in the series units below that which contains the note itself .
The system of 22 is shown to be of the second order and first class .
A system of 34 , also of the second order and first class , is pointed out as being of considerable excellence , even from a modern practical point of view .
It is shown that in systems of the second order and first class , modulation through a third cannot be regarded as equivalent to modulation through any number of fifths .
The notation is extended to systems of the rth order .
The subject of the transformations of the generalized key-board is then entered upon .
It is remarked in the first instance that any form of arrangement whatever can be constructed by rearranging a supply of keys of the ordinary patterns .
The problem of inversion is then solved , and it is shown under what circumstances , by simply inverting the succession from end to end , a keyboard can be obtained in which rise corresponds to fall of pitch , and vice versa .
The general transformation of the rth order is then investigated , and a rule is given by which the key-board of the rth order can be arranged with the ordinary keys .
This rule is then applied to the construction of the key-board of the second order , and a diagram is given of a portion of a key-board so arranged .
Systems of the second order and first class , such as the systems of 22 and 34 above mentioned , can be controlled with facility by means of this arrangement .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1875 , vol. xxiii .
p. 390 , and 'An Elementary Treatise on Musical Intervals and Temperament ' ( Macmillan , 1876 ) .

