[ 37 ] II .
The Convolutional Pattern of the Brains of Identical Twins : a Study on Hereditary Resemblance in the Furrows of the Cerebral Hemispheres .
By F. Sano , M.D. ( Brussels ) , Physician in Chief of the Asylum for Acute Mental Cases at Antwerp ( Belgium ) .
Communicated by Prof. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. ( From the Pathological Laboratory , London County Asylums , Maudsley Hospital , Denmark Hill , S.E. ) ( Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1916 .
) Contents .
1 .
Introduction .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2 .
Description of the Leading Characteristics of the Two Bodies 3 .
Hereditary Circumstances ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 .
Previous Work ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5 .
Technique and Abbreviations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 6-61 .
Description of the Hemispheres ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7 .
Comparative Tables .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
8 .
General Considerations and Conclusions ... ... ... ... . .
1 .
Introduction .
The study of the similarity of the convolutional pattern of the brains of relatives has been the subject of considerable attention in the Pathological Laboratory at Claybury , under the direction of Dr. F. W\#187 ; Mott .
At his request Dr , Fisher has been forwarding to the Laboratory a number of foetuses and children born dead that have occurred in his practice at Shoreditch Infirmary .
It has thus happened that full term identical twins came into Dr. Mott 's possession .
Realising the scientific value of a correct description of the similarity of the convolutional pattern in the brains of these twins , he has handed them to me and I have carefully studied the same on the lines previously adopted by Schuster in his description of the brains of relatives dying in the London Asylums .
I have also made a study of the nervous plexuses and other morphological points of interest .
I have been able to give my whole attention to laboratory research owing to the liberal grant made by the Medical Research Committee , and this study is a small part of the work which I have accomplished during the last year .
But it was thought by the Director to be of sufficient scientific interest to present to the Royal Society , especially having regard to its being a morphological contribution to the important observations of the late Sir Francis Galton on the history of twins .
VOL. CCVIII.\#151 ; B. 349 .
G [ Published , August 5,1916 .
PAGE 37 ' 38 2 .
Description op the Leading Characteristics of the Two Bodies .
The male twins were stillborn at full term , unlucky war babies of healthy parents .
Upon first examination hardly any differences could be observed between the two well developed , well nourished , quite healthy bodies , although A seemed a little smaller than B. As stated below the measurements confirmed this opinion , and a closer investigation gave the following details :\#151 ; \#151 ; Weight of the brain .
Weight of the body without brain and calvaria .
Length from seventh cervical vertebra to the anus .
Chest circumference .
Whole length of the body ( approximately ) .
grm. grm. cm .
cm .
cm .
A . . .
420 2375 23 28 50 B . . .
460 2545 24 30 51 The boy called A has a more receding forehead ; the nose is more turned up ; the distance between the root of the nose ; and the superior border of the upper lip smaller ( 6 '5mm .
v. 8 mm. ) , hence the mouth remains more open .
The chin is more receding .
The ear of A is closer to the head , has very little enrolment of the border , and its lobule is adherent , while the second boy 's ear is more unfolded and graceful ( vide fig. l ) .
There is no noticeable difference between the hands of both twins , but B has larger feet .
than A , and his toes are more spread out , while those of A are overlying irregularly .
The whole of the foot in A is 3 mm. less than the foot in B. The whirl-point of the hair is on the right occipital region in A and on the left in B. There is very little difference in pigmentation .
A is a little darker and has more hair than B , but there is no difference in the iris pigmentation , which is rich and equal in the four eyes .
The pattern of the furrows on the finger tips cannot be determined .
The lines on both palms of hands and soles of feet are similar , although the secondary lines are more marked in B. The heart of A is a little smaller than that of B. The arch of the aorta and the main vessels did not show any abnormality nor any differences .
No differences were found in the main visceral organs , in the lobes of the thymus , lungs , liver , spleen , kidneys .
The length of the appendix was exactly the same in both cases .
As I have previously called attention to the variations of the phrenic nerve , # I examined its apparent origin on both sides in both boys ; evidently in A the origin * 'Journal Medical de Bruxelles , ' October , 1898 , and " Localisation des Fonctions Motrices dans la Moelle Epini\amp ; re , " 'Rapport Congr\amp ; s des Ali4nistes et Neurologistes Fran^ais , ' Pau , 1904 .
THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
was symmetrical in the third , fourth and fifth nerve roots ; in B symmetrical in the fourth and fifth ; no origin in the third was found for B. Fig. 1.\#151 ; Profile , mouth type , ear and whirl-point of the hair in the twins examined .
The brachial plexus was symmetrical and on the common pattern in both boys on both sides .
To the above-mentioned difference in the origin of the phrenic nerve only one difference is to be added ; on both sides in A the first dorsal nerve joins the eighth nerve just where the posterior branch separates to contribute for the constitution of the radial nerve .
In boy B the first dorsal joins the eighth nerve immediately outside the spine , just above the first rib , and remains enclosed with it in the same sheath for 1 cm .
before the posterior branch separates .
Thus the brachial plexus of boy B shows on its apical and caudal ends an indication of greater condensation , which is a higher evolutional type of nervous arrangement , but not a fundamental difference in this arrangement .
The axillary artery is in its normal place , in front of the radial and between the seventh and the eighth nerve branches .
The lumbar plexus is similar in all its origins and branches in both boys ; it belongs to the high form , the crural nerve coming from 3 , 2 , 4 , lL , the obturator from the 3 , 2 , 4 , lL ( see ' Quain 's Anatomy ' ) .
The only difference is that in boy A the two branches from 2 and 3 remain separated by a. muscle bundle of the psoas and join only on the lower third of this muscle .
No differences are to be observed in the sacral plexus .
3 .
Hereditary Circumstances .
Dr. Fisher , who delivered the infants , and tlm maternity nurse give the following account of the conditions of the confinement .
The woman had had slight antepartum haemorrhage ; the labour was easy ; the first baby came by the feet and was peeling ; there was a moment of rest before the head passed the cervix .
The second .baby came immediately afterwards , without difficulty , by the head ; he was also macerated .
It was then 10.45 A.M. , August 31 , 1915 .
The placenta came at 11.10 easily .
There was no further complication .
Temperature 98 ' ( 37 ' C. ) , pulse 112 .
We examined the woman M. October 6 , 1915 .
She is well developed , of normal physique .
There were never as far as she knows any twins in her family .
Her father was bom in London and died comparatively young .
Her mother was born in the country and was a healthy individual who died at a good age .
The families on both sides were numerous ; no indication of any case of consumption , insanity or epilepsy could be given .
M. had three brothers and one sister ; three children died in early life .
She is the fifth living child and the one most resembling her mother , and is now 34 years old .
She has always enjoyed good health .
The superior incisor teeth are destroyed down to the root , the other teeth are in good condition .
In August , 1914 , she suffered from pneumonia and remained for seven weeks in St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
During the last weeks before the confinement she fainted several times .
Her legs were swollen , although there are no varicose veins at all .
She complained of pain in the hypochondriac regions .
She is now still anaemic and there is a murmur in the heart as a result of the poor condition of her blood .
She married and had six children and two miscarriages .
The series begins with a girl and alternates regularly , boy , girl , boy , girl , boy , the eldest being 16 years , the youngest 5 .
Her husband suffered of late years from kidney disease and died three years ago of tubercular nephritis ( ?
) .
She is unable to give any description of any value for our study of the eyes or morphological details of her first husband .
She had lived with the father of the twins six months when conception took place .
He is a tall and strong individual 39 years of age , who had bad alcoholic tendencies , and for this reason she left him , and he has gone to the Dardanelles .
As to the principal object of this examination , I noticed that the profile of baby B most resembles the mother , whose chin is also more prominent .
Her nose has an intermediate form to those of the babies .
The eyes of the mother are in form and THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
pigmentation absolutely uniform and similar to the four baby-eyes , dark brown .
There is no facial asymmetry .
The shape of the ears is the same as in .baby B but the lobules are adherent as in baby A. Owing to the whirl-point of the hair being different-sided in the babies , the mother astonished us by the fact that in her case it was quite in the middle of the scalp .
The use of combing did not leave a nice whirl as it was found in the twins , a main line , quite on the sagittal suture , going straight on backwards , dividing into two secondary lines ; the left of these takes a direction to the lateral side lower down than the other going on the right .
The lines and furrows in the hands are like those of the children .
The feet are normally formed , without any pathological condition .
The conclusion is that the male twins under examination are very similar to each other and also to their mother .
No essential differences were to be found .
4 .
Previous Work .
The previous work on the question has been reviewed by Edgar Schuster , and in the following description of the hemispheres we will adopt his method in describing the similarities and the differences in the furrows of the hemispheres .
Edgar Schuster has called attention to the papers of Karplus and Spitzka .
He considers that the contribution of Waldeyer does not deal with hereditary resemblances , but we shall have to analyse Waldeyer a little more than Schuster did .
For the two former authors we refer to Schuster 's review.* The description of Waldeyer concerns three pairs of twins and three groups of triplets , the majority being of different sexes .
Waldeyer recalls the researches about the sexual differences of the brain published by Rudinger , Passet , and Mingazzint , but he cannot agree with them that constant differences are demonstrated , and thinks with Karplus and Retzius that more careful observations are needed .
According to Rudinger the Sylvian fissure should close earlier in males , and the insula should be sooner concealed .
The type of the sulci should be sooner fixed in males .
Mingazzini thinks that the central fissure is longer in males ; it should be more oblique on the left than on the right in females ; the frontal lobe should be more complex in males , and the calcarine fissure should be deeper and more irregular ; the insula should be longer ( antero-posterior measurement of Cunningham ) in males ; the * Edgar Schuster , " Hereditary Resemblance in the Fissures of the Cprebral Hemispheres , " 'Archives of Neurology , ' vol. 6 ( 1914 ) .
Karplus , Y. P. , " Ueber Familienahnlichkeiten an den Grosshirn Furchen des Menschen , " 'Arbeiten Neurologischen Institute Wiener Univ. , ' vol. 12 ( 1905 ) ; " Sir Kenntniss der Variability und Vererbung am Zentralnerven System des Menschen und einiger Saugethiere , " Leipzig-Wien , 1907 .
Spitzka , " Hereditary Resemblance in the Brains of Three Brothers , " ' American Anthropologist , " vol. 6 ( 1904 ) .
Waldeyer , " Gehirne von Zwillingsf riiehten Verschiedenen Geschlechtes , " ' Sitzungsberichte der Koniglich Preussichen Akademie der Wissenschaften , ' No. IV , February 7 , 1907 ; 'Zeitschrift fur Ethnologie , ' vol. 40 ( 1908 ) .
relative greater height of the arch of the sulcus parieto-occipitalis and the greater length of the interparietal sulcus should be characteristic of the brain of females .
Retzius concludes that a typical difference resulting from a characteristic peculiarity in one of the sexes is not to be found in the fissures nor in the convolutions .
Cunningham could not find any difference for the sulcus centralis .
Karplus got negative results from the examination of triplets , although a male out of triplets , and having a weight between that of the two other female siblings , * could be considered as more advanced in his brain pattern .
The greater number of the brains of twins and triplets examined by Waldeyer belong to individuals too young to give any satisfactory comparison .
In two pairs of twins of seven months the boys had a longer fissure of Sylvius and a less exposed insula .
Waldeyer concludes " that the brains of males have\#151 ; at the same age\#151 ; a little more advanced sub-division of the sulci and convolutions ; " but he adds that in some cases this was not confirmed , and therefore we are not yet able to speak of a " constant relation " ( Gesetzmassig Yerhalten ) as Rudinger does .
It is a fact that Waldeyer , looking for sexual differences , did not call enough attention to the great importance of the similarity existing in the brains examined , although he signalises the problem of hereditary resemblances .
The work of Waldeyer gives only negative results in the research of sexual differences ; but it seems to be very important to note that his work also suggests two facts , the importance of which he does not lay enough stress upon , viz. :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The great similarity of the brains of twins and triplets .
( 2 ) The greater complexity in .
the pattern of the heaviest brains .
Waldeyer calls attention to the larger development of some lobes in the larger brains , particularly in the case of the temporal lobe .
There are no figures illustrating the papers of Waldeyer on this subject ; but the brains examined have been preserved at Berlin for those who would like to see them .
The notes of Waldeyer are mere general impressions ; they are not systematic .
The work of Waldeyer is an interesting guide to more extensive work .
5 .
Technique and Abbreviations .
The figures of Schuster consist in drawings and photographs .
The author remarks that " his figures are tracings from photographs , modified so as to accentuate the more important and deeper fissures .
In the best of the original photographs of a brain shallow grooves appear as conspicuous as the deepest fissures , while the arrangement of the lights and shades in some parts is such that important sulci are rendered practically invisible .
Hence tracings such as here included , being fairly diagrammatic , give in many ways a truer representation of the essential features .
" * Siblings\#151 ; Offspring of a single pair of parents , translation of the German " Geschwister " ( Karl Pears6n ) .
THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
I think that a serious modification has to be introduced in the technique of reproducing the examined brains .
First of all , it seems absolutely indispensable and elementary to harden the specimens , suspended in good conditions in the necessary quantity of liquid , to avoid any deformations .
The figures must b without perspective , just as , e.g. , anthropologists obtain them with the apparatus of Broca for the examination of the skull .
The outer line may be the reproduction of the brain mass .
All the lines inside this line must be as much as possible only the lines of the furrows , otherwise some contours would appear as sulci .
The figures must be such as are used by architects , and the compass must be able to control most of the measurements , which is not the case in a photograph , nor in an artistic drawing " in relief .
" For the position of the brain the norma verticalis ( Blumenbach ) and the alveolo-condylar line should be used .
If the alveolocondylar line cannot be determined , the brain may be put on a horizontal plan , the occipital pole being on the same level in all the figures .
Attention should be given to the eccentric development of the brain ( Ecker ) .
Although I would have preferred to follow the abbreviations and denominations of Dejerine , whose book is better known , I have taken nearly the same abbreviations as Schuster for the purpose of an easier comparison .
Our mind becomes sooner accustomed to the use of abbreviations than to that of long Latin words .
It is therefore very important to take the most accurate abbreviations , and those which are the nearest to the original terms .
Some of the abbreviations of Schuster are not the best he could have chosen ; but I quite agree that it is very difficult to abandon all old errors and to establish a logical general rule .
If the Rolandic sulcus is called sulcus centralis , why not admit Jissura lateralis for the jissura Sylviif Why does Schuster speak of a " collaterals and " sulcus " calcarinus % Fissura ought to be reserved for the deeper grooves holding the main vessels .
In the comparative tables superior should always come before inferior , and anterior before posterior ; a single difference should not be expressed in three manners in the same table .
For example :\#151 ; sulcus fronto-marginalis continuous divided into two pieces , , " three pieces should better be concentrated in the single sentence : number of pieces .
As far as possible I followed the tables of Schuster , although each series of brains could have its own tables when a great number of details are reviewed .
I tried to make a table of comparison which would be useful for the summary of the special tables obtained in each study ( p. 56 ) .
List of Abbreviations used in Figures .
Arranged in Alphabetical Order .
arc c .
cal .
col .
fi .
ft \#166 ; fm .
fma fms fpo fi ' h .
im .
ima iml imp imv ip .
ipo Ipr .
Isi .
Iss .
lun marg oa .
oi .
ol .
olf .
om .
oprm orbs orbt pc .
p col po .
poi pol i pol s pos Arcus intercuneatus .
S. centralis .
F. calcarina .
S. collateralis .
S. frontalis inferior .
Fissura lateralis .
S. frontalis medius .
S. fronto-marginalis .
S. frontalis mesialis .
Fossa parieto-occipitalis .
S. frontalis superior .
It .
horizontalis cutting the g. cent. ant .
S. retrocalcarinus .
S. intermedius primus ( anterior ) , sulcus calcarinus lateralis .
S. intermedius secundus ( posterior ) .
It .
verticalis of S. retrocalcarinus .
S. interparietalis proprius .
Incisura parieto-occipitalis .
S. limitans praecunei .
S. lingualis .
S. cunei .
S. lunatus .
S. prsecentralis marginalis .
S. occipitalis anterior .
S. occipitalis inferior .
S. occipitalis lateralis .
S. olfactorius .
S. occipitalis medius .
S. occipitalis paramesialis .
S. orbitalis sagittalis .
S. orbitalis transversus .
S. praecunei .
S. paracollateralis .
F. occipito-parietalis .
S. pos teen tralis inferior .
S. polaris inferior .
S. polaris superior .
S. postcentralis superior .
THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
pri . . .
S. praecentralis inferior .
prm .
S. prsecentralis intermedius .
pv med , . . .
S. praecentralis medialis .
prs .
S. prsecentralis superior .
ps . . . . .
S. parietalis superior .
r , . . .
S. radiatus .
ra . . . .
K. anterior ascendens of fissura lateralis .
rh .
B. anterior horizontalis of fissura lateralis .
rhi . .
Sulcus rhinicus .
rpa . . .
B. posterior ascendens of fissura lateralis .
rpd B. posterior descendens of fissura lateralis .
rti .
S. rostralis inferior .
rts .
S. rostralis superior .
rtt . .
S. rostralis transversus .
sc . . . . . .
S. cinguli .
sea . . . . .
S. subcentralis anterior .
sep .
S. subcentralis posterior .
sp . . . . . .
S. subparietalis .
sri . . . .
S. rhinencephali inferior .
ti . . .
S. temporalis inferior .
tm .
, . .
S. temporalis medius .
tr . . . .
S. occipitalis transversus .
ts . .
S. temporalis superior .
ttr . . . .
S. temporalis transversus .
A ... ... ... ... ... ..the smaller baby .
B . . . . . .
the bigger baby .
L . . . . . .
left side .
B ... ... ... ... ... ..right side .
When speaking about left B , e.g. , it means left hemisphere of baby B. In the next paragraphs , 6 and 61 , the description of the left hemispheres is given on the pages to the left , viz. , 46 , 48 , 50 , 52 ; the description of the right hemispheres on the pages to the right , viz. , 47 , 49 , 51 , 53 ; thus enabling at once a comparison of the left conditions with those of the right .
Attention therefore is particularly drawn to the fact that the text of page 46 continues on page 48 , and so on .
VOL. covin.\#151 ; b. H THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
pri . . .
S. praecentralis inferior .
prm .
S. prsecentralis intermedius .
pv med , . . .
S. praecentralis medialis .
prs .
S. prsecentralis superior .
ps . . . . .
S. parietalis superior .
r , . . .
S. radiatus .
ra . . . .
K. anterior ascendens of fissura lateralis .
rh .
B. anterior horizontalis of fissura lateralis .
rhi . .
Sulcus rhinicus .
rpa . . .
B. posterior ascendens of fissura lateralis .
rpd B. posterior descendens of fissura lateralis .
rti .
S. rostralis inferior .
rts .
S. rostralis superior .
rtt . .
S. rostralis transversus .
sc . . . . . .
S. cinguli .
sea . . . . .
S. subcentralis anterior .
sep .
S. subcentralis posterior .
sp . . . . . .
S. subparietalis .
sri . . . .
S. rhinencephali inferior .
ti . . .
S. temporalis inferior .
tm .
, . .
S. temporalis medius .
tr . . . .
S. occipitalis transversus .
ts . .
S. temporalis superior .
ttr . . . .
S. temporalis transversus .
A ... ... ... ... ... ..the smaller baby .
B . . . . . .
the bigger baby .
L . . . . . .
left side .
B ... ... ... ... ... ..right side .
When speaking about left B , e.g. , it means left hemisphere of baby B. In the next paragraphs , 6 and 61 , the description of the left hemispheres is given on the pages to the left , viz. , 46 , 48 , 50 , 52 ; the description of the right hemispheres on the pages to the right , viz. , 47 , 49 , 51 , 53 ; thus enabling at once a comparison of the left conditions with those of the right .
Attention therefore is particularly drawn to the fact that the text of page 46 continues on page 48 , and so on .
VOL. covin.\#151 ; b. H 6 .
Comparison of Hemispheres .
Left Hemispheres , The Fissura lateralis { Sylvii)(ft ) has in A one anterior ascendent ( ra ) and one horizontal ramus { rh ) ; in B , two anterior ascendent { ra ) and one horizontal ramus { rh ) .
The insula is partially exposed ; the second and third gyri breves may be seen , also part of the first .
The anterior rami open separately in the except the two ascendent of B. The two posterior rami , rpa and rpd of jl , are similar and small in A and B , but the inferior of A goes farther , and is superficially connected with the first temporal { ts ) .
The sulcus centralis ( c ) in both cases cuts the superomesial border ; it does not join the jl ; in A the end of c turns forwards in the direction of the sulcus subcentralis anterior { sea ) , in B that end turns backwards and remains at a good distance of sea .
Both sea extend 12 mm. on the surface of the operculum .
Frontal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus prcecentralis inferior ( pri ) in both cases , at its lower end , remains at a good distance from the fl ; its lower end turns backwards in A and is vertical in B ; its superior end is very close to the sulcus prcecentralis superior in both cases .
There is no sulcus prcecentralis intermedins { prm ) .
The sulcus prcecentralis superior { prs ) is longer in A than in B. In both it falls short of the mesial border , and in B it has two -secondary rami into the gyrus centralis anterior .
A secondary fissure , ramus horizontalis { h ) , cuts the gyrus centralis anterior on an ascending line for A , arriving on the inferior end of prs , and on a horizontal line for B , arriving at 12 mm. from the end of but in both cases at a distance of 28 mm. from the inferior beginning of pri .
pri measures in A 28 mm. ; in B 38 mm. taken in straight lines .
Prs \#187 ; 26 " " 16 " 54 54 The sulcus frontalis mesialis { fms ) is badly developed in A , and joins the prs in its middle .
It is markedly regular in B , except at the end that does not join prs , but it comes far down on the anterior face of the lobe .
The sulcus frontalis superior { fs ) is continuous in A , but divided in B. In both cases it joins the prs , at a distance from the mesial line measuring in A 20 mm. and in B 19 mm. The lower end in B joins the fma .
The sulcus frontalis medius { fm ) practically does not exist .
The gyrus frontalis medius is cut by three transverse sulci in A and by four in B. In A a short sulcus fm joins prs .
The sulcus frontalis inferior { f ) is short in A , joins , but not the sulcus radiatus ( r ) ; it is well developed in B , joins pri and the r , without any deep gyrus .
( p. 48 .
) THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
61 .
Comparison op Hemispheres .
Right Hemi The Fissura lateralis ( jl ) has in A one ra and one rh anterior , in B two ra and one rh .
The difference on both sides is due to the concealment in A of a gyrus exposed in B between the two ra .
The insula is partially exposed as on the left .
In right A same details as in left A , but the rpa is longer on the right .
In right B same details as in left B. These differences are secondary and without importance .
The sulcus centralis ( c ) in both cases cuts the superomesial border , it does not join the Jl ; in A the end of c goes straight on and approaches Jl on the place where sea is indicated ; in B that end turns backwards and runs parallel to sea , at a good distance ; sea in B is very small , and extends but 3 mm. Thus the type of cin B is highly developed , due to the greater development of the inferior frontal convolution .
But the difference exists only in the direction of c , not in peculiarities of superior or inferior endings , nor in connection with the other sulci .
Frontal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus prcecentralis inferior ( ) is very different .
In A it is separated from the sulcus diagonalis ( d ) and from prm , it joins Ji , but does not join the sulcus frontalis medius ( fm ) ; in B it does not join d , but joins fi .
There is an independent prm in A. The sulcus prceeentralis superior ( prs ) is the same in A as in B , but in B it has two sections and reaches with its end the mesial border .
The gyrus centralis anterior is not cut as in the left hemisphere .
pri measures in A 29 mm. ; in B 26 mm. taken in straight lines .
prm " 23 ,7 " 0 " prs " 26 " " 32 " " " 78 58 These differences are due to the fact that in A the prm is parallel with pri on its lower , and with prs on its higher part .
Without prm the measurement would be 55 , nearly the same as on the left hemispheres .
The main resemblance is the cutting of the gyrus centralis anterior by a ramus horizontalis , which exists in both left and not in both right hemispheres .
The left B has more resemblance to the left A. than to its own homologue right hemisphere .
The sulcus frontalis mesialis ( fms)is badly developed in A , and exists only on the superior part .
In B fms is divided into three pieces ; the superior does not join prs , the inferior does not join fma .
' The sulcus frontalis superior ( fs ) is in A extended from prs to fma , with a small gyrus near its end ; it is continuous in B from prs to fma .
fs is easily determined and is regularly less distant from the mesial border in A than in B on both sides .
jj 2 ( p. 49 .
) There is a good sulcus radiatus ( r)in both A and B. The sulcus diagonalis ( d ) in A joins Jl and fi , in B it is half size , but what has been considered as a second ra is similar in form and condition to d of A. The reason why we consider this fissure as a r is because of its situation and its next combination with the real ra .
The sulcus fronto-marginalis ( fma ) is divided into two segments , similar in A and B ; its internal part receives the lower end of fs in B. The accessory branches of the sulcus orbitalis ( orb ) extend less to the external border in A than in B ; accessory branches coming from fma replace this lack of extension .
In A there is one sulcus rostralis ( rt)in B there are two down to the first branch joining the superomesial border with the sulcus cinguli ( sc ) .
In the pars orbitalis of the lower frontal convolution there is an antero-posterior secondary sulcus , not existing in both right hemispheres .
Parietal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus postcentralis inferior in A joins superficially^ , but not ip .
There is a marked and deep sulcus subcentralis posterior ( ) , joining ft , ip , and pos , but a deep gyrus connects the gyrus supramarginalis with the gyrus centralis posterior .
In B poi joins superficially jl and ip ; in B there is also a marked scp , joining jl , but not ip , and a horizontal branch cutting the gyrus centralis posterior .
The sulcus postcentralis superior ( pos ) in A joins scp and ip , but , as has been said before , a deep gyrus connects the gyrus posterior and the gyrus supramarginalis ; above this connection the ip continues in the gyrus centralis posterior , which is cut by a horizontal branch , but a gyrus joins both parts of the gyrus centralis posterior on the border of c. In B the pos takes an oblique direction forwards and reaches nearly c ; it joins ip , but not scp .
The sulcus parietalis superior ( ps ) is simple and straight in A ; in B it divides at its end , and the two rami include a small gyrus not to be found in A. The sulcus interparietalis ( ip ) is a sinuous line in A , coming from scp and ending in the sulcus occipitalis transvcrsus ( tr ) .
In B is more straight , and ends also in tr .
There are no deep gyri .
In A the sulcus is large , and contains parts of gyri not reaching the surface , but not really concealed .
This is especially the case with a small tip of the supramarginalis just above the first lower intermediate sulcus ( ima ) ; a similar part in B is connected with the upper parietal gyrus , but it remains on the surface .
In A the sulcus intermedius primus ( ima ) is very anterior ; it is behind , and not so deep in B. The sulcus intermedius secundus ( imp ) is well developed in A , and is just indicated in B. There is an ascendent intermediate sulcus going upwards in A and backwards in B. The sulcus cinguli ( sc ) is quite similar in A and B , except at its end , the paracentral convolution being larger in A. In A two sulci of little depth divide the surface of the paracentral lobe .
In B the sulcus paracentralis is very marked , and its three ( p. 50 .
) THE BEAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS , The sulcus frontalis medius ( fm ) practically does not exist .
The gyrus frontalis medius is cut by three transverse sulci in A and by three in B. In A a short branch has an anteroposterior direction .
The sulcus frontalis inferior ( fi ) is short in A , joins d and r ; it is well developed in B , joins pri and r , not ra ; near to the junction with r there is a small deep gyrus .
As a result of the short fi in A there are two sulci radiati one of which is very high up .
The sulcus diagonalis ( d ) in A joins fi and fi .
In B it joins fi .
The two in A are different from the two d in B. This is a result of the greater development of the inferior frontal gyrus in the brain of B. The sulcus fronto-marginalis ( fma ) is similar in both cases .
On both sides this sulcus is a little* more complicated in B than in A. The accessory branches of the sulcus orbitalis ( orb ) show the same differences as in the two left hemispheres .
In A there is one sulcus rostralis ( rt ) ; in B there are three rt .
The frontal lobes are developed more on their mesial part and on the third frontal in B. As a result of this the mesial frontal sulcus is better developed in B , and there is a greater complexity in the secondary branches of the different sulci .
But these differences are not essential , and , as a rule , the arrangement is the same in the two brains .
Parietal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus postcentralis inferior poi ) is continuous in A with the sulcus postcentralis superior ( pos ) and with fl , where a deep gyrus closes its valley ; there is another deep gyrus at 15 mm. from the first , connecting the gyrus centralis posterior with the g. supramarginalis .
poi joins also ip .
In B is very long and limited by a small gyrus , nearly concealed , joining the g. supramarginalis and the gyrus centralis posterior ; it joins ip and fi superficially .
For B there is a small distinct pos joining ps .
In B the condition is similar to that of its left homologue , and there is a well-developed sep , which is but indicated in A. As in the left hemisphere of B , the gyrus centralis posterior is cut in its middle by a horizontal branch , but here it is coming from c and does not reach the poi on the right side , as it does on the left .
Thus the main characteristic in both brains consists in the presence of a large but which does not exist in the right A. The distance of poi to c is :\#151 ; In A . . . .
17 mm. on the left and 10 on the right .
In B . . . .
16 " " 18 The sulcus parietalis superior ( ps ) is transverse in A and isolated as in left A. In B it joins pos and ip , as in the left hemisphere of B. The sulcus interparietalis ( ip ) is sinuous and continuous , joining and in A ; ( Continued , p. 51 .
) branches are well developed , one nearly reaching the superior border .
The central sulcus extends more on the mesial face in A than in B. There is no sulcus intralimbicus ( Dejerine ) The prcBcuneusof both hemispheres is completely isolated from the paracentral gyrus , but the lower limit of the prsecuneus is not similar .
In A two sulci interrupted by a connecting gyri separate the praccuneus from the gyrus cinguli .
A part of the cerebral cortex belonging to the latter in B is connected to the former in A. The sulcus prcecunei ( pc ) is represented in A by three lines\#151 ; one isolated , one joining superficially fpo , one joining sp ( subparietalis ) ; in B by four lines\#151 ; one joining ps , one sp , one fpo , one small sp. The sulcus subparietalis ( sp ) is continuous with sc .
Temporal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus temporalis superior ( ts ) is one continuous sulcus in A , with a connection to Jl just down to poi , and behind the first transverse temporal .
In B ts is divided into three segments ; from the first a connection goes in the direction of c into Jl , where it continues backwards and turns then also behind the first transverse temporal gyrus .
The second segment is connected with the second temporal sulcus ; the third section also with the tm .
The end of ts in A has three rami , disposed " en eventail " ; the end in B is single and straight , nearly reaching ip .
In both cases there is a sulcus temporalis transversus ( ttr ) joining ts .
The posterior Heschl convolution , gyrus temporalis transversus , lies deep , and is badly developed in B. The sulcus temporalis medius ( tm)is represented by at least four sections in A , and three in B. In the third section of B a small isolated gyrus is in the depth , slightly exposed .
In A the tm joins ts once ; in B it joins twice .
In B , tm is connected with the sulcus occipitalis lateralis ( ol ) ( oa ) .
The sulcus temporalis inferior ( ti ) is divided into two sections in A , the second joining at its end the col , the anterior joining the tm .
In B , lies on the inferior surface , and joins the sulcus occipitalis inferior ( oi ) .
Occipital Lobe.\#151 ; It is in the occipital lobe in which perhaps the most marked differences may be observed .
In A the fossa parieto-occipitalis is markedly indicated , and the surrounding gyrus entirely unsectioned , whilst in B the main part of that convolution is rejected to the mesial surface by the development of two secondary convolutions , which , however , lie deeper ; thus on the mesial side the space of the fossa is occupied in B by a large convolution existing in A on the lateral surface .
The sulcus lunatus ( lun ) has no connections with other sulci ; in A it is at 18 mm. from the mesial line ; in B at 21 mm. The fissura calcarina ( cal ) approaches to it in A by a straight line ( iml ) ; in B the cal ends in a transverse line ( iml ) , the lateral end of which goes towards the lun .
The sulcus occipitalis transversus ( tr ) is not to be seen on a lateral projection , as the prominence of the gyrus angularis covers if ; it extends only 14 mm. from the mesial ( , p. 52 .
) THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
the same deep gyri exist in this hemisphere as on the left , but they are more concealed .
In B the ip is interrupted by a gyrus ( concealed in A ) .
The ima is short and deep in A , and does not exist in B. The imp exists in A and also in B ; well developed in the latter .
In both cases there is an ascending intermediate sulcus .
The left hemispheres and the right A have a continuous sulcus cinguli ( sc ) , in the right B it is interrupted by a large gyrus , 4 mm. broad .
In A the sulcus paracentralis is double and independent , in B it is unique and joins cs .
The c extends more on the mesial face in A than in B. There is no sulcus intralimbicus ( intrafornicatus ) ( ) .
The prcecuneus is isolated from the paracentral gyrus , its lower limit is more similar in the right hemispheres than in the left .
In the right hemispheres there is a central multibranched pc , not connected with the c nor with the parieto-occipitalis .
In B its superior part is less developed , but a branch of the ps comes down in the praecuneus until 10 mm. from the supramesial border .
In both cases a descending branch of sp comes into the praecuneus .
Temporal Lobe.\#151 ; The sulcus temporalis superior ( is continuous in both A and B , without connection with fi ; it ends in three ascending branches in A , the second of which has a double length compared with that of the opposite side .
In B ts ends in two branches , the lower being also divided in two secondary branches , one of which represents the third of B. The left hemisphere of B is thus the most dissimilar from the others .
In both cases there is only an indication of sulcus temporalis transversus ) .
The two Heschl convolutions are well developed in the right hemispheres as in the left A. The sulcus temporalis medius ( tm ) is in three pieces in A and a vertical sulcus coming from ti sections the cortex between the two first tm .
The latter condition does not exist in B , where the posterior tm ends in a vertical sulcus joining ts ; in B tm is in four pieces .
The sulcus temporalis inferior ( ti ) is divided in two sections in A , the first ending in the mentioned vertical sulcus and the posterior being nearly parallel to that vertical sulcus .
In B an anterior ti comes on the lateral surface and joins tm ; the posterior ti is very low , contouring the vertical sulcus in which tm posterior ends .
Occipital Lobe.\#151 ; In A the fossa parieto-occipitalis is not so deep as it is in the left homologue hemisphere ; the ipo takes a descending direction and measures 14 mm. In B it is quite transverse and measures 13 mm. Both conditions are more similar to left B than to left A. In A the fssura calcarina ( cal ) ends in two branches , together 9 mm. high ; in B 22 mm. ; near to this a small depression is indicated in A , but in B there is a three-branched sulcus .
The two left hemispheres are similar to each other and this is also the case in the right hemispheres .
( Continued , p. 53 .
) line ; in B 26 mm. But in A there is a second sulcus which joins om , and which in B is practically confounded with tr The sulcus occipitalis inferior ( oi ) is in two sections in A , the lower ending in ti ; in one section in B , connected on its middle with col and ti .
On the mesial surface the sulcus retrocalcarinus ( im ) makes with the fissura calcarina ( cal ) an angle of 90 ' in A , one of 115 ' in B. In A there are two vertical sulci cunei ( Iss ) , the anterior branching on its upper end and reaching by one ramus the fossa parieto-occipitalis , the posterior coming on the lateral surface .
In B , as a result of the rejected gyrus parieto-occipitalis , there is a first incisure of tr , separated from the sulcus prcecunei by that gyrus .
From the two vertical sulci the anterior gives one branch coming in the sulcus parieto-occipitalis mesialis ( po ) , and one coming on the lateral surface ; a transverse branch joins the two sulci cunei .
The posterior Iss does not join a lateral sulcus .
A small supplementary sulcus cunei exists in the anterior angle of the cuneus in B. The sulcus collaterals ( col ) is very similar in both cases ; it joins oi and ti .
In both cases the sulcus lingualis ( Isi ) commences in col , and ends independently .
7 .
Comparison with the Work of Karplus .
Comparative Tables of Schuster 1-8 .
Left .
Right .
A. B. A. B. 1 Whether the sulcus centralis does or does not form an anastomosis + with the sulcus prsecentralis superior 2 Whether the sulcus centralis does or does not cut the superomesial + + + + border 3 Number of segments of sulcus prsecentralis ( continuous or not ) 2 2 3 2 4 Number of segments of sulcus postcentralis ( continuous or not ) .
2 2 1 2 5 Whether the sulcus centralis does or does not cut the operculum \#151 ; \#151 ; - \#151 ; centrale + means " yes " ; - means " no. " These main indications , the first four of which were considered by Karplus as valuable points of comparison , show the great similarity of the examined brains .
( Continued , pages 54 , 55 , 56 .
) THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
The sulcus occipitalis transversus ( tr ) is very similar in both cases , but the gyrus postparietalis is more developed in B. In A a deep gyrus is partially exposed , just as in the left hemisphere. .
The sulcus occipitalis inferior ( pi)is large in A , but small in B. In both cases it is joined by col .
The sulcus retrocalcarinus ( in)makes with the cal an angle of 125 ' in A and is sinuous , where it was nicely curved in the left A ; in B it is more open than it is in the left B , and reaches 110 ' .
The sulcus cunei ( Iss ) in A is more complicated than it is in the left A , but still less than in B ; in none does it join the tr , and the occipital lateral sulcus does not come on the mesial surface , as it does in left B. The sulcus collaterals ( col ) is nearer to the mesial surface than to the lateral in A , where transversal branches of ti come on to the inferior surface .
In B the col is more similar to the condition of the left hemispheres , and a transverse sulcus unites col with the sulcus lingualis ( Isi ) , which is independent in A. 8 .
General Considerations and Conclusions .
The following general remarks might be made in support of the value of examinations of the brain furrows .
The significance of the furrows has been abundantly discussed , and Brodmann holds that they are very secondary productions .
But a number of anatomists from Baillarger to Ariens Kappers have fully demonstrated the importance of their study .
Fissurae and sulci indicate the regions where the cortex has been first developed , both phylogenetically and ontogenetically , and where the projection fibres are first organised , and thereby the fissures and sulci retain their depth .
The progressive concealment of gyri within the sulci and fissures thus formed constitutes a most interesting problem .
The study of hereditary resemblances in the brain should not be limited to the sulci only , but with every work a beginning is needed , and the future may augment the material , as well as the opportunity of further detailed anatomical investigation .
Thus a parallel examination of the architectonic fields might be undertaken ; in fact Edgar Schuster has already examined the extension of the striation of the occipital pole .
The measurements of the gyri are also indispensable for the determination of the furrows .
As a rule the supplementary sulci or differences in their direction appear as a result of a greater development of the neighbouring convolutions .
The brain A was smaller than the brain B. The larger size of B exists in every lobe of the brain .
It is clearly apparent in the frontal , the parietal and the occipital lobes , less in the central convolutions .
This gives the different lobes of B a fuller ' VOL. CCVIII.--B .
I Comparative Table ( No. " VT , First of Schuster ) .
A = the smaller brain .
B = the larger brain .
+ means " yes " ; - means " no. " Left .
A. B. Fissura lateralis . .
Number of anterior rami 2 3 Sulcus centralis . .
Number of posterior rami Anastomoses with:\#151 ; 2 2 Sulcus prsecentralis superior + Sulcus prsecentralis inferior - + Sulcus postcentralis superior - + Sulcus postcentralis inferior - + Sulcus subcentralis anterior and - Sulcus prsecentralis Sulcus subcentralis posterior and ... .
Anastomoses with:\#151 ; superior Sulcus prsecentralis inferior ... ... . .
m Sulcus frontalis superior + + Divided into two pieces \#151 ; \#151 ; prm Sulcus prsecentralis Sulcus prseeentralis intermedius present . . .
1 Anastomoses with :\#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; inferior .
Sulcus diagonalis and jl Sulcus subcentralis anterior and jl - Fissura lateralis direct \#151 ; Sulcus frontalis superior Ramus horizontalis separate - - Sulcus frontalis su- Ramus horizontalis anastomoses with sulcus frontalis medius Anastomoses with :\#151 ; + perior Sulcus frontalis medius + - Continuous ' . .
+ fm Sulcus frontalis medius slightly indicated ( + ) or absent ( - ) + Sulcus frontalis in- Superficial posterior annectent gyrus . . . .
\#151 ; ferior Superficial middle annectent gyrus - Superficial anterior annectent gyrus . . . .
A Anastomoses with :\#151 ; 2 1 Sulcus diagonalis + jma Sulcus frontomarginalis : number of pieces . . .
2 2 Right .
A. B. + + + + + + + + THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
Comparative Table ( No. VI , Second of Schuster ) .
A = the smaller brain .
Left .
Right .
B = the larger brain .
+ means " yes " ; - means " no. " A. B. A. B. Sulcus postcentralis superior Continuous with sulcus postcentralis inferior . .
Anastomoses with : - - + - Sulcus centralis \#151 ; + _ \#151 ; Sulcus interparietalis +* ' \#151 ; + \#151 ; Sulcus subcentralis posterior + - Sulcus parietalis superior .
\#151 ; + \#151 ; + Sulcus postcentralis Anastomoses with:\#151 ; inferior Fissura lateralis + * + * + + * Sulcus centralis \#151 ; + _ \#151 ; Sulcus interparietalis - + + + Sulcus subcentralis posterior \#151 ; ' \#151 ; \#151 ; Sulcus interparietalis proprius Continuous Anastomoses with:\#151 ; + + + Ramus ascendens sulci temp , sup - - Ramus ascendens sulci temp. med . . . . . .
- - - Sulcus intermedius primus + + + Sulcus occipitalis transversus + + + + Sulcus parietalis superior \#151 ; \#151 ; + Sulcus parietalis Independent + \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; superior Number of segments 1 2 1 2 Anastomoses with sulcus prsecunei + + \#151 ; + Arcus ... ... Intercuneatus superficial - + + + oa Sulcus occipitalis anterior ( lateralis ) present . .
+ + + + Sulcus temporalis Number of segments . .
1 3 \#166 ; 1 1 superior Anterior interruption present - - - \#151 ; Middle \#151 ; + - \#151 ; Posterior + - \#151 ; ttr Sulcus temporalis transversus joining ts . . .
+ + .
- - rhi Sulcus rhinicus present + + + + Sulcus cinguli . . .
Number of segments 1 1 1 2 Anastomoses with sulcus subparietalis ... .
+ + + + sp Sulcus subparietalis interrupted - - + + Angle . . . . .
Of calcarine fissure , the right A different from 90 ' 115 ' 125 ' 110 ' the three others .
* Superficially .
Comparative Table for Hereditary Resemblances in the Furrows of the Hemispheres .
( By the Author .
) No. A = the smaller brain ; B = the larger brain .
Number of quotations .
Per cent. 56 \#151 ; Similarities .
1 Number of cases where the four hemispheres have the same condition 21 37*5 2 Number of cases where three hemispheres have the same condition .
24 42*7 3 Number of cases where the two left hemispheres are similar 29 51*8 4 Number of cases where the two right hemispheres are similar . . .
40 71*5 Similarities of Differentiation between the Left and the Right Hemispheres .
Cases in which occurs the formula ( + +------ ) or ( ------1- + ) , the two ] 2 left similar , and the two right similar , hut the right condition being different from the left condition Peculiarities in one Hemisphere .
) Number of peculiarities special to left A(- + + +)or(H\#151 ; Number of peculiarities special to left B(h--------b + ) or ( \#151 ; I\#151 ; \#151 ; ) Number of peculiarities special to right A ( -b H-------b ) or ( ------ \#151 ; V. Number of peculiarities special to right B ( + + H\#151 ; ) or ( ---------\#151 ; b ) .
Confirmed Dissimilarities .
Number of cases where left A is similar to right A , and left B to right B(h---------b - ) or ( - H-----b ) % Whether there is Inversion of Similarity .
Number of cases where left A is similar to right B ( the cases where the four hemispheres are similar excepted ) ( + H--------b)or(---------1\#151 ; ) Number of cases where right A is similar to left B ( id. excepted ) ( - + + +)or(+ - - - ) Number of cases where the two former similarities ( 8 and 9 ) co-exist for the same quotation ( +-----------b)or( \#151 ; b + \#151 ; ) 0 1 and 2 show that , in 56 cases , 45 times three hemispheres at least showed the same condition , or 156 times on 224 chances ; 5 shows a condition of the same value as 1 , thus 8 more similarities 3-5 12-5 16-1 8-9 7-1 8*9 73-2 0*732 is the apparent index , of similarity .
0*089 732 -4- 89 = +8*23 is the absolute index of comparison , peculiarities and incomplete resemblances .
The two brains examined are at least eight times more similar than dissimilar .
is the apparent index of dissimilarity .
There is a remnant of 0*179 , resulting from THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
rounder aspect .
A result of the larger size of the convolutions is a greater multiplicity of secondary and transversal sulci in the larger brain .
The larger size of B exists with a greater concealment of deep sulci in the parietal and occipital lobes , especially in the interparietal sulcus and in the fossa parieto-occipitalis .
But the fossa lateralis was similar in both brains .
There is no indication of any true inversion of similarity ; in other words , when a condition of the left A is similar to that of the right B , the right A will never be similar to the left B , except , of course , when the four conditions are the same ; thus the formulae ( -j----------J- ) or ( ---1\#151 ; |---- ) never happen .
( In the Tables of Schuster this happens five times , but for very secondary peculiarities .
) All the differences are of secondary importance if we try to summarise the general impression which the comparison gives .
There is a very remarkable similarity in the disposition of the furrows .
The bigger brain is the more highly developed ; the left hemisphere of this brain is the most advanced and the most dissimilar from the three others .
In his ' Inquiries into Human Faculty and its Development , ' Sir Francis Galton calls attention to the great importance of the history of identical twins ; this study being most valuable in affording some insight into the relative powers of nature and nurture .
The evidence in his inquiries proved decisively that the power of nature was far stronger than that of nurture , when the nurtures of the persons compared were not exceedingly different .
The brain being the organ of mind , this study of the morphological similarities in the convolutional pattern supports the investigations of Galton regarding the functional similarities in every kind of mental temper and activity .
A B Fig. 2.\#151 ; Frontal and inferior surfaces of the two brains .
Projection figures reduced 0'82 to the originals ; abbreviations explained in the Table of Abbreviations , p. 44 THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL TWINS .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Superior and occipital surfaces of the two brains .
Figs. 2 and 3 were made after the surface had been stripped , but before the hemispheres were divided from each other .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Left am A B THE BRAINS OF IDENTICAL

