2 .
" On the Valves of the Heart .
" By W. Savory , Esq. Communicated by Edward Stanley , -Esq .
, F.R.S. .
Received September 30 , 1852 .
The paper contains observations upon the structure and connections of the auriculo-ventricular and arterial valves of thehuman heart , which the author thinks will assist in explaining their nature and functions .
The relation of the " four orifices " in the base of the heart is examined , and it is shown that the aortic and left auriculo-ventricular apertures are not separated as the others are ; that no muscular tissue of the ventricle intervenes between them , but that when the auricles and great vessels are separated from the ventricles ( which may be accomplished with facility after prolonged boiling ) , the aortic aperture is separated from the left auriculo-ventricular only by the anterior mitral valve ; and when this is removed .
( or even while it remains ) , it is plainly seen that only one aperture exists whose borders are formed by the muscular tissue of the ventricle , and in shape somewhat resembling the .
figure 8 .
This is divided into two portions , an anterior ( aortic ) and posterior ( auriculo-ventricular ) by the anterior mitral valve , and above it , by the posterior wall of the aorta , into which is inserted a large portion of the anterior wall of the left auricle , but no muscular tissue of the ventricle intervenes .
When the auricles and vessels are removed , it is seen that the three orifices are bounded by thick andconvex borders formed by the bases of the .
ventricles .
Those on the left side are broadest ; the difference between the two : sides corresponding with the difference in thickness between the walls of the ventricles .
The formation of these muscular borders , and the general arrangement and direction 'of the muscular fibres at these parts , is examined .
; The fibres forming the walls of the ventricles converge around these apertures .
: The most superficial fibres may be traced.up from the walls of the ventricles , curving obliquely over the convex border , and having their extremities , for the most part , fixed around the orifices .
Wemay remove these fibres layer after layer , and still find the same arrangement to : obtain , the deeper fibres lying more transversely and obliquely intersecting those above and below .
If now the auricles and great vessels which have been detached are replaced in their natural situation , it is observed that the auricles are connected with the inner surface of these convex borders , while the walls of the vessels pass down on to the outer surface .
This fact is an important one when viewed in connection with the valves , and will be presently considered .
In the mean time it may be remarked , that the formation of the auriculo-ventricular grooves in which the coronary vessels lie , is explained .
These vessels are PaOCEEXDIxGS OF THE ROYAL SocIrTY , VOL. VI .
No. 85 .
1 found in the angle between the border of the ventricles and the wall of the auricles .
The nature of the fibrous zones or tendinous cireles surroiunding the orifices is examined .
These ringsare in especial relationiwith the valves , being closely connected with their attached bases , uand are not , sUh distinct and independent structures as they have Wen hitherto considered .
After referring to some previous descriptions of the arterial tendinous rings , the author attempts to show that what has been described as the upper and thickened festooned border , is the result of the attachment of the bases of the valves to the larterial coat , and is formed by an intimate union of the fibrous tissue composing the valves with the elastic coat of the artery.o ( 1 ) These festooned : borders correspond exactly with the attached bases of the valves , and hence their shape , ( 2 ) They are thickest and moststrongly marked at , the angle formed by the junction of two valves , to which point the bands of fibrous tissue in the valves converge .
( 3 ) The microscope shows these -festooned rings to be::com-i posed of a mixture of the white fibrous with the yellow elastic tissue , an arrangement naturally to be expected from an intimate union of the tendinous : tissue of the valve with the arterial coat .
The stru cture , connections and relatins of the valves is examined ?
chiefly by means of vertical sections .
carried through their centres and adjacent parts.:Such sections of the arterial valves diselo'e an important relation which they have with the upper border of the ventricles .
he .
aorta and pulmonary artery : expanding : towards their termination , are situated upon the outer edge of the ventricular border before described ; the consequence : of which arrangement is that the portion of valve adjacent to the vessel passes over and rests upon the muscular substance , and is supported upon the inner border of the-free edge of the ventricles surrounding the arterial orifices .
This arrangement , in consequence of the small size of the parts , is not so obvious at the first glance in the human heart , but is more stikingly shown in an examination of the heart of anyy one of the larger animals .
This appears of importance when viewed in connection with the functions of the valves .
The reflux of the blood ia said to be sustained by the festooned rings at the base : of the valves , but in faet they are thinnest at this very part , corresponding to the central portion of the convexity of the valves ; and if the desciiption , previously given of the formation of the tendinous festooned -rings be a correct one , it is obvious why it is so , the thicker portiots being the projecting angle at the junction of two valves , to which points the tendinous fibres of the valves converge : Now:inasnuch as he poSterior portion of the aortic orifice -is , contiauous : with the leftauriculob-ventricular aperture , ; no muscular tissue of the.entricle existing at-this part , the posterior aortic valve , and a portion of the adjacent one , have no support of this kind ; z but the muscular floor of the anterior aortic valve is especially broad , and it is the corresponding portion of the aorta which is particularly dilated , the posterior wall descending nearly vertically .
The arrangement above described obtains in all three pulmonary valives ; but as the border as well as the walls of the right ventricle are considerably thinner than those of the left , the muscular floor of these valves is much narrower than in the anterior aortic valve .
All this is of course seen on a much larger scale in the hearts of the larger -animals , as the Horse and Ox ; and here , where the muscular floor of the valves ( more especially the anterior aortic ) is of very considerable breadth , the ten- .
dinous tissue of the valve may be traced over the muscular surface to form the wall of the vessel .
In the larger Ruminants there are found two considerable portions of bone , partly surrounding the orifice of the aorta , and smaller irregular fragments are occasionally observed between the principal pieces , The larger portions vary much in size and shape in different hearts even of the same species .
They are usually elongated and curved .
The chief bone , which exceeds the other considerably in size , embraces the whole of the right side , and the right half of the back part of the orifice of the aorta ; while the little bone , not generally found in the smaller Ruminants , as the Sheep , its place being occupied by a portion of dense fibrous tissue , extends from the middle of the left side round to the posterior part , where it more or less nearly joins the extremity of the larger bone .
Thus the lateral and posterior portions of the aortic orifice are surrounded by firm bony arches meeting posteriorly in the centre .
From the large bone , a small process usually passes backwards for some distance into the muscular substance of the septum between the ventricles , and is gradually lost in the dense fibrous tissue found in this part , surrounding the right border of the left auriculo-ventricular aperture ; and from the convex surface of the smaller portion , a thin process of dense fibrous tissue is continued round the left margins of the auriculo-ventricular orifice .
These heart-bones are intimately connected above with the middle coat of the aorta , on the inner surface with the base of the adjacent arterial valves , and posteriorly with the an- ; terior mitral valve ; while at the sides , to their external and inferior surfaces , the muscular fibres of the ventricle are attached .
They may be seen and felt in the base of the pouches formed by the two posterior aortic valves , and no doubt greatly assist in sustaining the " force[of the reflux .
" They occupy the position of the two posterior festoons of the aortic valves .
In the human heart , in the situation corresponding to the position of these heart-bones , the tissue composing the festooned rings is thicker and denser than elsewhere , offering to the knife , in some cases , almost the resistance of bone .
The processes of dense fibrous tissue found in the anterior portion of the border of the ventricular septum , &amp;c. , and extending round the-right and left margins of the auriculo-ventricular orifice , are intimately connected with the thickened portions of the adjacent festoons .
Among the tissues entering into the structure of the arterial valves , elastic fibres are described .
They exist not only in the corpus arantii , but delicate fibres of elastic tissue are found throughout the valve ; most abundantly in the thicker portions , but even in the thinner portions ( lunule ) a few delicate but well-marked elastic I0 fibres may be seen , particularly after the addition of acetic acid , which of course assists greatly in bringing them into view .
Muscular fibres have not been found : in the arterial valves .
The structure and connections of the auriculo-ventricular valves are next examined by means of vertical sections .
In tracing down the muscular wall of the auricle , it is observed to pass on to the inner surface of the ventricular border , and if minutely examined is seen to terminate by two attachments .
The external portion , which is considerably the larger , is closely connected with the : fibrous structure forming the " auriculo-ventricular ring , " while the thinner ' internal portion is continued forwards for a very short distance between the surfaces of the valve , and terminates more or less abruptly by an attachment to its tendinous tissue .
This is generally best seen in one of the tricuspid valves , where , in a vertical section , the muscular fibres may be observed terminating beneath its upper surface immediately beyond its attachment to the ring .
In the posterior mitral valve the muscular fibres seldom penetrate so far forwards , and this appears to result , when a section of the parts is examined , from the much greater thickness and density of the lining membrane of the left auricle .
The connections of the anterior mitral valve , being peculiar , re- ' .
quire a separate consideration .
In dissecting down between the anterior wall of the left auricle and the posterior surface of the aorta , it is seen that the central fibres of the auricular wall are closely attached to the adjacent wall of the vessel .
A little further dissection on either side will show that the muscular substance of the left ventricle is deficient between these parts .
At the sides indeed it is found , but is gradually lost at sonime distance from the mesial line .
Hence these two orifices ( the aortic and left auriculo-ventricular ) are not separated as the others are by the intervention of the muscular fibres of the ventricle .
The structure and connections of the anterior mitral valve are examined by means of a vertical section , including the posterior wall of the aorta and the anterior wall of the left auricle .
If the lining membrane of the auricle be traced down ' wards , it is found to be directly continued on to the posterior surface of the valve , and the membrane on the anterior surface of the valve is continued upwards over the tendinous festooned .
ring of the aorta~ on to the under surface of its semilunar valves .
The anterior mitral valve lies beneath a portion of the two posterior arteria .
valves .
, The muscular wall of the auricle is observed to terminate by two distinct insertions .
The anterior ( the larger ) division of fibres is attached to the posterior surface of the aorta , opposite to- , and below the festooned ring , while the posterior portion is continued directly downwards for a short distance into the valve , and terminates by an attachment to its fibrous tissue .
The posterior wall of the aorta descends nearly vertically .
Suddenly becoming much thinner opposite the upper border of the semilunar valve , it is continued down to the festooned ring , or in other words , it here becomes blended with the base of the semilunar valves .
Below this a dense layer of fibrous tissue ( which exists below , and fills up the spaces between the attached bases of the semilunar valves ) descends for some distance into the anterior mitral valve , immediately behind its anterior surface .
It is by a close attachment to the posterior surface of this layer that the muscular fibres of the auricular wall which descend into the valve , terminate .
This layer of fibrous tissue , however , may be generally traced downwards into the valve farther than the muscular fibres .
The boundary , then , between the aortic and auricular apertures is formed above the mitral valve by the posterior wall of the aorta , 'terminating at its junction with the bases of the semilunar valves , *and immediately below the posterior surface of which is attached the greater portion of the muscular fibres forming the anterior wall *of the left auricle .
The extremities of the two bones which in ru'minants replace a portion of the lateral and posterior divisions of the " festooned ring , " nearly meeting in the centre , behind , give additional support to the structures entering into the formation of the mitral valve .
In examining the structure and connections of the auriculo-ventricular valves , it is noticed that a considerable portion of tendinous fibres pass from the insertions of thecords , through the valves , to the zones , and many of the smaller cords pass up directly into the amgle formed between the under surface of the valve and the inner surface of the ventricle , and at once enter into the formations of the:fibrous zones .
These cords are short , and many of them spring from the wall of the ventricle , behind the valve .
Therefore it results , that these zones are densest and most strongly marked in those -portions corresponding to the attached borders of the valves , and gradually become less distinct towards the intervals between them .
Hence the greater portion of the auriculo-ventricular zones is more properly to be considered in connection with the valves .
The fibres of elastic tissue exist in the auriculo-ventricular valves , hut more sparingly than in the arterial valves .
The many contradictory statements which have been advanced concerning the existence of muscular fibres in the auriculo-ventricular valves , may perhaps be explained by a consideration of the mode in which the muscular fibres of the auricles terminate , which has been already described .
The internal fibres which have been mentioned , descending from the auricular walls into the valves just beyond their attached margins , may be traced to a greater distance in some cases than in others .
They generally ternminate by a tolerably well-defined margin , but this varies .
They usually descend for a greater distance between the layers of the anterior mitral valve , immediately beneath its auricular surface ; but even here they are seldom found stretching far into the valve , not terminating , however , so abruptly .
Therefore , if a portion of the attached border of a valve immediately below its upper surface be examined , muscular fibres in abundance will generally be detected ; whereas if sought for in any other portion of the valve far from its attached border , according tq the foregoing observations , they will not be found .

