u B A2 C d ~ D2 Fig. 5 .
V 0369 12 II .
A Description of an Engine to raise Water by the Help of Quicksilver , invented by the late Mr. Joshua Haskins , and improved by J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. R. S S. M R. Haskins finding that all Hydraulic Engines , working with Pumps , lose a great deal of Water , ( always giving less than the Number of Strokes ought to give according to the Contents of the Barrels : ) and that when the Pistons are new leather 'd to prevent that Loss , the Friction is much increased and the Engines are subject to Jerks , which in great Works do often disorder an Engine for a great while , by breaking some of the Parts ; contrived a new way of raising Water without any Friction of Solids ; making use of Quicksilver instead of Leather , to keep the Air or Water from slipping by the sides of the Pistons in the Barrels where they work ; hoping thereby to prevent all the abovesaid Inconveniences , and also to have Water Engines less liable to be out of Order than any yet made .
The first Experiment he made with an Engine that he set up at my House about two Years ago , which I repeated before the Royal Society in a Model ; and tho ' , by the ill Contrivance of the Parts , it did not raise near the Quantity of Water that the Invention is capable of ; yet I shall describe the Machine here , because it will serve for the better Understanding of our present Engine .
FI G. I. dddd represents a Lignum Vitae Plug or Piston ( which Mr. Haskins called a Plunger ) about 6 Foot long made heavy enough with Lead at top to sink into Mercury , which is beforehand poured into the Barrel D1 D2 up to m m. The Chain E1E 2 , joined to the Piston and the Power that moves it , being let down till the Piston comes to D 2 , the Mercury rises to the same Height in the Barrel , and in the Receiver R , ( which it fills ) namely to n n , as appears in the Figure .
Then drawing up the Piston till its Bottom is come to m m , the Mercury coming out of the Receiver down to oo makes a Vacuum , and the Weight of the Atmosphere causes the Water to rise up thro ' the Sucking Pipe A1A 2 , and Valve V into the Receiver where the Mercury was before .
Upon letting down the Piston again , the Mercury rises into the Receiver , and drives up the Water thro ' the Elbow B , the forcing Valve u , and so up the forcing Pipe a2a ~ : But when once the forcing Pipe ( which here was 46 Foot high ) is full , before any Mercury can enter into the Receiver , and force any Water out at the top of the Pipe a 1 , the Mercury between the Piston and Barrel must rise up to qq near 3~ Feet above the Bottom of the Receiver , and as it continues to rise up to p p , the Water is thrown out with a Velocity proportionable to the Height that the Mercury is raised above the 14th part of the Height of the Water .
Now tho ' the Friction of Solids is here avoided , it is plain that the Mercury must move from mm to qq without raising any Water , and that it can only force in going from qq to p p , and only suck in falling from oo to m m : And unless the Piston is stopped a little while when at lowest , the Water wo n't have time to run out : So likewise the Piston must be stopped when at highest , that the Receiver may have time to fill .
Mr. Haskins likewise proposed another Way , represented in Fig. 2 ; where the same Letters represent the same Parts , only here the Barrel is moveable by the two Chains E1E 2 , and instead of a solid Piston , the hollow Cylinder C1cc is fixed , and the Mercury moving up and down in the lower Part of it , sucks and forces the Water thro ' the Elbow .
The Figure represents the Engine sucking , by means of the Mercury hanging from oo to m m. In order to force , before any Water can be driven out , the Mercury~ in the inner Cylinder must descend from oo to m m , and rise up to pp between that Cylinder and the Barrel ; so that here also a great deal of time is lost ; besides the great Quantity of Mercury used , which is very expensive ; because as much Mercury is moved every Stroke as the Water raised .
These Difficulties very much puzzled Mr. Haskins , and quite discouraged some other Persons that had got the Secret of the Invention , and were setting up against him .
But when I had considered the Matter a little , tho ' I had not time to contrive a Machine for it , I told him , That a little Mercury might be made to raise a great Quantity of Water , and there should not be such a loss of time as in his Engines ; but that I would have him find it out before I assisted him farther .
In a little time he found out the Contrivance represented in Fig. 4 ; and afterwards that of Fig. 3 ; which last was what I had thought of : And both these were also found out by the late Mr. William Ureem , who was an excellent Mechanic .
FI G. III .
Here the Barrel is moved as in Fig. 2 , but the Plug ddd taking up a great deal of Space , there is Occasion for no more Mercury than what will make a concave Cylinder or Shell up to pp between the Barrel D1D 2 , and the hanging Cylinder C1C2c c , when the Stroke is made for forcing ; and a concave Cylinder between the Plug and C1C2c c , when the Suction is made .
I gave Mr. Haskins the Proportions for an Engine this way , of which he made a Draught , and showed it to the Right Honourable the Lord Chancellor about six Months ago .
This I mention here , that no body may endeavour to get a Patent for this Invention , to the Prejudice of Mr. Haskins 's Assigness ; who , since his Death , have desired me to assist them in perfecting the Engine .
FI G. IV .
Here the Barrel with a third Cylinder dddd instead of the Plug of Fig. 3 , is lifted up and down every Stroke , and the Water passes thro ' dddd , the Mercury making a Shell sometimes between the middle and inner Cylinder , as in the Suction ; and sometimes between the Barrel and the middle Cylinder , as in the forcing Stroke .
Mr. Ha kins had contrived such a Machine as is represented by this 4th Figure , and bespoke the several Parts before he died ; and therefore when I was desired by his Assignees to direct the setting up the Machine , I was obliged to make use of the Pieces already made , in order to save the Expense of a new Engine : And now the whole put together with some Alterations , make the Engine represented by Fig. 5~ as it is set up at my House in Westminster , and by the Force of one Man , raises a Hogshead of Water in little more than a Minute and a half to the Height of 27 Feet .
All the Fault of the Machine of Fig. 5 is , that the Pendulum Handle Ff is too long , and the Bottom of the middle Cylinder C ought to be just in the middle of the Height to which the Water is to be raised , supposing three Copper Cylinders to be as they are here : If likewise the Barrel D1D2 worked under the forcing Pipe , the Lift would be easier .
Therefore I describe the Machine with the small Alteration represented in Fig. 6 .
The sucking and forcing Pipe and Valves are marked with the same Letters as in the other Figures ; and the Chains E1E2 must be supposed to hang from such Pullies , and to be moved by such a Pendulum as is in Fig. 5 .
The Barrel D1D2 ( called otherwise the outer Cylinder , and represented by the same Letters in Fig. 7~ ) has within it another Cylinder ( called the inner Cylinder or Plug , as dddd Fig. 7 , ) between which two Cylinders a certain Quantity of Mercury is poured in , and the hanging Cylinder C coming down into the Mercury , a Stroke of 13 Inches may be made by the Motion of the Barrel , which in going down sucks by making a Vacuum in C , and in going up forces the Water out of the top of the forcing Pipe , performing the Office of a common Piston ; only that instead of Leather to make it tight to the Cylinder C , there is always a thin Shell of Quicksilver either between the middle Cylinder C and the inner one , ( dddd Fig. 7 .
) as happens when the Suction is made , or between the middle and outer Cylinder , as happens in lifting up the Barrel to Force .
In the Suction , the Mercury is higher in the inner Shell than in the outer Shell , by an Height equal to a little more than 1/ 14 Part of the Height of the Barrel above the Water to be raised : And in forcing , it is higher in the outer Shell than in the inner by a little more than 1/ 14 of the Height of the Pillar of Water to be forced .
And therefore if the Water is not required to be raised above 64 Feet , the Barrel should move so as to make the Middle of its Stroke at the Height of 30 Feet , or at the middle of the way from the Water to be raised , to the Delivery at top .
The 7th Figure drawn by a larger Scale , represents the three Cylinders , which are here made of Copper in their just Proportions : And for the sake of those that would consider this matter fully , I have here given their Lengths , Diameters within and without , and Thickness .
Outer Cylinder Middle or hangInner Cylinder or or Barrel , D1 D2 .
ing Cylinder , in plug closed at top which the Stroke by a Cap , and mois made C1 C2 cc .
ving up and down with the Barrel to which it is joined at bottom .
dddd .
Inches Inches Inches Length -30 -29,0 -31,2 Diameter 6,74 6,35 6,03 within .
Thickness 0,10 0,08 0,13 Diameter 6,94 6,51 6,29 without Here BB represents part of the Elbow of Fig. 5 .
or of the forcing Pipe of Fig. 6 .
But as the Spaces between the Cylinders are so small , as not to be visible even in a large Draught made by a Scale ; I have here given three more Draughts of the three Cylinders , where the Height is agreeable to the Scale of the 7th Figure , but the Diameters of the middle and inner Cylinders are made less than they are in the Engine , to make the Space between ( where the Mercury rises and falls ) visible ; and the Cylinders themselves are represented by single Lines .
The Quantity of Mercury used in this Engine is 36 1/ 2 Pounds , which being poured in between the outer and inner Cylinder , rises up to the Height of 16 .
Inches .
When the Barrel is pulled up ( as in Fig. 9 , ) so as to have the middle Cylinder within an Inch of the Bottom of the Barrel ; the Mercury on both sides the middle Cylinder will rise up to the Height of 23,1 Inches , that is about two Inches below the Cup D1 , to the Line q q. When the Barrel is going down to fill the sucking Pipe and middle Cylinder C , the Mercury in the inner Shell will be 25 Inches high , and only 13 in the outer Shell , Fig. 9 , where the shaded part represents the ~ .
At the End of the sucking Stroke the Mercury is up to the top of the inner Cylinder , and scarce an Inch in the outer Shell .
Fig. 8 .
In raising the Piston from forcing to Sucking , the first 1 1/ 4 Inch drives the Mercury out of the inner Shell , and raises it in the outer Shell 13,28 Inches .
The Depth of an Inch of Water in the middle Cylinder above the inner one or Plug is equal to a Space in the outer Shell of 13,28 Inches , and 1/ 4 of an Inch is equal to the same Height in the inner Shell .
Therefore when the Mercury is equally high in both Shells , a Motion of 1/ 4 of an Inch of the Barrel will charge for Suction .
That is , upon letting down the Barrel only 1/ 4 of an Inch , the Pressure of the Atmosphere in the outer Shell will raise the Mercury in the inner one 13,28 Inches , at the same time , that it pushes up the Water from the Well 13 Foot and a half high into the sucking Pipe .
And when all the Pipes are full , if the Mercury be equally high in both Shells , upon raising the Barrel one Inch , the Mercury will rise 13,28 Inches in the outer Shell ; which I call charging for forcing ; because in continuing to raise the Barrel , the forcing Valve immediately rises , and the Water comes out at top during the rest of the Stroke , which is 12 Inches , and delivers 1,6 Gallon of Water , Wine Measure .
Fig. 10 .
represents the forcing Stroke half way up ; with the ~ 17 Inches in the outer Shell 4 Inches in the inner , and the whole space at bottom under the middle Cylinder 7 Inches .
From this it appears , that in the whole Stroke of 13 Inches in Length , there is only 1/ 4 of an Inch lost to charge for Suction , and in the next stroke , which is likewise of 13 Inches there is only one Inch lost to charge for forcing ; so that in a Motion of 26 Inches , there is but 1 1/ 4 Inch , or about 1/ 20 part ineffectual .
But this is owing to the too large space of the outer shell , which contains 4 times more than the inner one , because the Cylinders were only hammered , and not turned ; for if the outer space had been no bigger than the inner , then 1/ 4 of an Inch of the stroke would have charged for forcing ; so that only 1/ 3 an Inch in 26 , or 1/ 52 part of the whole stroke would have been ineffectual ; and in that Case , 2/ 5 of the Quantity of Mercury , or a little more than 12 Pounds , would have been sufficient .
There may still less Mercury be used , if the middle Cylinder be made of Plate Iron turned on the outside , and bored within , the outer Cylinder bored , and the inner one turned ; so that if the Work be well performed , eight or ten Pounds of Mercury will be sufficient in this Engine , tho ' the Bore of the middle Cylinder , or Diameter of the Pillar of Water which is raised , be of 6.35 Inches .
If the Bore of the said Cylinder was but 3 Inches , less than 3 Pounds of Mercury would suffice , and less than six if there were two Barrels , in order to keep a constant stream thro ' a Pipe of almost the same Diameter .
This will very much lessen the Expense of Mercury , which would otherwise be an Objection against this Engine ; and by making the inner and outer Cylinder of hard Wood , as Box , or Lignum Vitae , the Cost of the Engine may still be reduced .
But if the Engine be very large , Cast Iron bored will be proper for the outer Cylinder , and Cast Iron turned on the outside for the inner Cylinder or Plug , and hammered Iron bored and turned for the middle Cylinder .
There is an Objection , which seems at first to take off the intended Advantage of this Engine , which is this , viz. That instead of the Friction of the Leather of a Piston , when we lift up our Barrel to force , the Resistance , that the Mercury finds to rise in the outer Shell , is at least as great as the Friction that we avoid .
Now that Resistance is never greater than the Weight of a concave Cylinder of Mercury , whose Height is the greatest to which the Mercury rises in the said Shell , and the Base is the Area of the Shell it self .
This Weight in our Engine is equal to 57,5 Pounds , and therefore one would think it greater than the Resistance made by the Friction of a Piston .
But if it be considered , that in the Descent of the Barrel for sucking , the Mercury shifts immediately into the inner Shell , rising to the same Height , and still keeping the same Base ; the aforesaid Weight of 57,5 Pounds helps down the Barrel , and facilitates the overcoming of the Force of the Atmosphere , consequently the Weight of the Mercury being balanced , is no Hindrance , whether you work with a single or a double Barrel .
There remains only then the Hindrance by loss of time in the Beginning of any Stroke : But I have showed that to be but 1/ 52 part of the stroke .
I have found that the best Engines now in use generally lose near 1/ 5 of the Water that they ought to give , according to their Number of Strokes .
And Mr. Henry Beighton , an ingenious Member of this Socicty , having a great many times measured the Water that is raised by Engines in Mines , found that some Engines lost 1/ 4 , and none ever lost less than 1/ 5 of what they ought to give according to the Number of the Strokes in their Pumps , whatever auxiliary Powers they were moved with .
There is indeed another Objection , but scarce worth notice ; which is , that some Particles of Mercury will mix with the Water that is raised , and make it unwholesome ; but no body that considers Specific Gravity , will imagine any such thing .
However , to satisfy those that might still apprehend it , it is to be observed , that none of the Water that is raised comes near the Mercury : For in the Cylinder C , and part of the Elbow B , ( Fig. 5 .
) there is always above the Mercury a certain Quantity of Water that rises and falls with the Barrel , and never goes into the forcing Pipe .
The same happens also in the Machine of Fig. 6 .
for the Water having once run into the Cylinder C , all that is raised afterwards , comes thro ' the forcing Valve without coming down to the Mercury .
Provided Care be taken to make the Barrel with its Plug tight , I do n't see that this Machine will want Repair in a long time , except some of the auxiliary Powers be out of order , which do not relate to this Invention .
The Numbers given will serve to examine the Truth of what I have asserted concerning the Motion of the Mercury : And from them one may make Tables to serve to proportion these Engines for raising any Quantity of Water to any Height , according to the Power one has to apply .
a1 Philosoph : Transact : No. 370 a1 Plate I. a1 E1 E1 E1 E2 E2 a1 a2 u E2 u C E2 E1 ddBdd C2 B D1 D1 PPV C1 C2 C1 d qq A2 D1 a2 D1 dd D2 uV BPPP nn A2 R Fig. IV Voo mm A2 oo dd D2 Fig. I. mcmcc c D2 D2 dd Fig. II Fig. III A1 Philoso Inner Cylinder .
2d.or Mid .
Cylinder .
Out~ Cylinder ~ Inch3 .
tenths f. i. t. f. i. Length 2 .
7 .
22 5 .
0 2 .
6 Diameter within 0 .
6 .
03 6 .
35 Depth of ~ Thickness 0 .
13 0.08 Diamete Length ~ Distance between Outer &amp; Iner Cylinder 0.225 Stroke in ye BB BBBB C1 C2 C1 C2 dd C1 dd C2 D1 D1 20 qq Fig. 7 dd 15 D1 Fig. 9 10 Inches Fig. 8 .
5 0cc cc D2 .
D2 cc dddd a2 .
C1 C2 E1 E2 F dd D2 E1 Philoso : Trans : No. 370 .
Plate II .
Depth of the Cup 5.Inches ' Diameter 10.5 Length of Pendulum 9 foot Stroke in ye Cylinder 13 Inches a.2 .
a1 ~ E2 u D1 dd D2 E1 a2 .
u B E2 A2 C D1 C D2 Fig. 6 D1 Fig. 10 .
~ Fig. 5 .
f V A1 cc 10 54321036 Feet D2 .

