j On the Modulus of Torsional Rigidity of Quartz Fibres , etc. 401 f On the Modulus of Torsional Bigidity of Quartz Fibres and its Temperature Coefficient .
" By Frank Horton , D.Sc .
, B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , late Mackinnon Student .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.B.S. Beceived December 15 , 1904 , \#151 ; Bead January 26 , 1905 .
[ Abstract .
] The author recently had the honour of reading to the Society the ( results of some experiments in which a new method of timing by 'means of " coincidences a method devised by Professor Pointing \#151 ; was applied to an investigation of the effects of changes of temperature on the modulus of torsional rigidity of metal wires .
It seemed desirable to repeat similar experiments with quartz fibres , seeing that now they are almost universally employed as suspensions in torsion : instruments where accuracy is required .
The fibres experimented on were prepared from different crystals of quartz , and ' care was taken in their manufacture so as as to obtain them free from air bubbles and of circular cross-section .
The investigation was divided into three parts : I ( 1 ) The determination of the absolute value of the torsion modulus .
I ( 2 ) The variation of the modulus over a range of temperature from 15 ' C. to 100 ' C. [ ( 3 ) The variation of the modulus between 20 ' C. and 1000 ' C. s In the determination of the absolute value of the modulus , it is necessary to find the radius of the fibres used .
The method adopted for this purpose consists of measuring the circumference of the fibre by rolling a small length of it between two fine glass capillary tubes and counting the number of revolutions it makes in travelling a distance of 5 mm. With practice , this method was made to give very good results ; a fibre of diameter 0*001 cm .
being measured to 0*01 per cent. The results of experiments on six fibres gave numbers for the modulus of rigidity in very good agreement , showing that the rigidity of quartz is practically constant , and does not vary in different speci1 mens as in the case of metal wires .
The mean value obtained for the modulus of rigidity at 15 ' C. was 3*001 x 1011 dynes per sq .
cm .
The results showed that this value is independent of the longitudinal stress to which the fibres are subjected , so long as this is not greater than that which they are usually required to bear when used as suspensions in measuring instruments .
In the second part of the research , observations were made on several fibres at temperatures approximately 15 ' C. , 35 ' C. , 55 ' 0 .
, 75 ' C. , 402 On the Modulus of Torsional of Quartz Fibres , etc and 100 ' C. In every case the modulus of rigidity was found to increase as a linear function of the temperature , hut the values obtained for the temperature coefficient of the modulus were considerably different The mean value was + 0-0001235 , but the experiments show that this is far from constant in different specimens of quartz , its variations being much greater than those of the modulus of rigidity itself .
It was found that the fibres became slightly more rigid as time went on , the rate of increase of rigidity being greater at the higher temperatures .
This is probably due to a gradual annealing of the fibre , the annealing consisting in an easing of the structure from contraction strains .
In addition to the determination of the periods of torsional vibration , observations of the logarithmic decrements of the amplitudes of the oscillations were taken at each temperature .
Fibres were also made to vibrate in an atmosphere of hydrogen , and the logarithmic decrements were again observed .
From the values thus found , and the known ratio of the viscosities of air and hydrogen , a measure of the internal friction of the fibre was obtained .
It was found that the internal friction of the fibres was very small , only about 2*5 per cent , of the observed logarithmic decrement at 15 ' C. being due to that cause , and that it remained roughly constant when the temperature of the fibre was raised from 15 ' C. to 100 ' C. A series of observations was taken to ascertain the manner in which the logarithmic decrement , and the torsional period varied with tho amplitude of vibration , amplitudes between 14 ' and 10 ' being used .
It was found that both the logarithmic decrement and the torsional period remained constant within these limits .
In this respect quartz differs from metal wires , in which it was found that both the internal friction and the period of torsional vibration increased with the amplitude of oscillation .
In the experiments between 20 ' C. and 1000 ' C. the fibres used were rather thick and were suspended inside a platinum tube which was heated electrically , and which could be maintained at any desired temperature .
Observations were taken at intervals of about 50 ' C. .
and the temperature of the tube was obtained by means of a thermojunction of wires of platinum and rhodo-platinum .
It was found that the modulus of rigidity of the fibre increased with the temperature , at first as a linear function of it , but as the temperature rose the rate of increase gradually diminished , and a maximum rigidity was attained at about 880 ' C. After passing this point the rigidity decreased very rapidly with increase of temperature .
The internal viscosity of the fibres increased with the temperature at a rate which was at first small and constant , but after about 650 ' C. it became much more rapid .
At 1060 ' C. the internal friction of the fibres was so great that the torsional vibrations were nearly dead-beat .

