43 31 37 28 14 29 41 39 33 13 34 40 13 32 12 14 13 13 12 II .
An Account of the external Maxillar , and other Salivary Glands : Also of the Insertions of all the Lymphaticks ( as well above as below the Subclavians ) into the Veins ; which Glands and Insertions have not hitherto been mentioned , or not truly described by any Authors .
By Richard Hale , M. D. Reg. Soc. &amp; Coll. Med. Lond. Soc. THE external Maxillar Glands in Brutes are of the Conglomerate kind .
They lie externally , laterally ( lengthways ) on the lower Jaw , partly under the Depressor Labiorum , and partly under the Buccinator .
A strong Membrane intervenes between these Glands and the Jaw on one side , and between them and the Buccal Glands on the other side .
They are more or less red ( like the Pancreas ) according to the quantity of Blood that remains in them , otherwise their Substance is white .
These Glands receive Arteries from the external Carotids , Veins from the external Jugulars , and Nerves from the third Branch of the Par Quintum .
The Number of excretory Ducts from these Glands , is not always the same , in the same species of Animals .
In Cows generally fourteen are discovered by the Probe .
Their Orifices are valvular , about four times less than their Ducts .
Every Duct is about half an Inch from the next .
Those in the middle of the Glands are largest , because the Glands are there broadest and thickest .
The Ducts do n't communicate with one another , nor with the Buccal .
Every Duct is made of lesser Ducts united , which rise from the Lobules ( thro ' the whole substance of the Glands ) which constitute each distinct Lobe , and has the same structure as the Pancreatic Duct .
Each Lobe is depressed on its sides , where it is joined to other Lobes ; and between the Lobes many Buccal Glands are interspersed .
In Calves seldom more than six or seven Ducts admit any Probe ; when the Animal grows older , the Ducts appear more plain and open .
In Sheep six excretory Ducts are always found in each external Maxillar Gland .
In Dogs and Cats , &amp;c. these Ducts are fewer , in proportion to the smallness of the Glands .
It is observable that these Ducts in Dogs open obliquely towards the Mouth , whereby the Saliva may be better mixed with the Food in Mastication ; which might be swallowed unmixt from another structure of Ducts , in these Animals that swallow greedily .
Dr. Wharton * first mentions the external Maxillar Glands .
What he says of them , is applicable only to their appearance in Men , in which Subjects they are of the Conglobate kind , and very small , unless in Scrophulous and Venereal Cases .
It is plain that he had not seen them in Brutes ; for in his Figures ( which were drawn from Brutes ) no notice is taken of these Glands .
He describes them as very small , and calls them Emunctories of the Nerves , which was the Notion ( in his time ) concerning the use of the Conglobate Glands ; and the Saliva was said ~e Nervoso Genere profundi .
* Steno justly blames Blasius for ascribing to the external Maxillars an Excretory Duct opening into the Mouth , like the common one from the Parotid Gland .
Yet Steno ( otherwise very accurate ) does not truly describe these Glands , nor distinguish them from the Buccal , tho ' they * Cap. 21 .
~ Cap. 21 .
page .
134 .
* Obs. Anat .
p. 14 .
are as distinct from the Buccal , as the Sublinguals are from the internal Maxillars .
Steno divides his Buccal into 3 Parts .
The large Ducts in a Line rise from the external Maxillars ; and how distinct these Glands are from the Buccal appears plainly in Fig. 17th , &amp;c. Steno 's 2d part of the Buccal , * intra ~ , &amp; in media part , are marked e e , in Fig. 14 .
quae alias , &amp;c. higher are the same e e , among the Papillae .
The third Part quae a superiore descendunt , are abc d. The external Maxillars differ from the Buccal , in bigness , figure , structure , particular number of Ducts , colour , &amp;c. The Buccal , Labial , internal Maxillar , and sublingual Glands , are of a yellow Colour ; besides the Buccal are separated from the external Maxillars by a strong Membrane .
Indeed many of the Excretory Ducts of the Buccal Glands open near the Ducts of the Maxillars ( from whence Steno confounded these Glands ) but they do so likewise round his own Ducts from the Parotids ; and some Ducts from like Glands open near the Sublinguals , as also about Nuck 's Ducts , in which places the Buccal Ducts are most numerous .
In short , there is a very great Number of Excretory Ducts dispersed all over the Membrane , that invests the Mouth , Fauces , &amp;c. which rise from Glands that lie under this internal Membrane .
These Glands are more numerous in some Parts than others , and receive different Names , according to the Part they belong to ; as Labial , Buccal , Palatine , &amp; c But these are small Glandules with one Excretory Duct , and tho ' they separate Saliva like the large Conglomerate Glands , Parotids , Maxillars , &amp;c. yet they differ from these in Constructure , one common Excretory Duct , &amp;c. Whereas the external Maxillars differ from all the other Glands of the Mouth , viz. * Page .
18 .
by many ways from the Buccal , besides their Colour ; in which particular , they are also distinguished from the internal Maxillar and Sublingual Glands ; they differ also from these as well as from the Parotids , in having a great number of common Excretory Ducts .
This number of Excretory Ducts was not observed by Steno , nor did he know that these Ducts in the same Line , were the Excretory Ducts of large Conglomerate Glands ( like the Parotids ) distinct from the Buccal .
Bartholine * mentions the external Maxillar Glands , but does not describe them .
Nuck ~ only gives them a Place in his Catalogue of Glands , but takes no farther Notice of them , tho ' he writes a* Book chiefly about a new Salival Duct rising from a Gland , that is found in no Animal besides a Dog .
Mr. Cowper had never seen these external Maxillar Glands , as appears by a Letter of his ( now by me ) written above Twenty Years ago , in answer to one I sent him upon the first discovery of these Glands .
The external Maxillars in Men ( of the Conglobate kind ) are marked g , in the first Figure of his Myotomia Reformata , The Ducts of the external Maxillar Glands are opposite to the Orifices of Steno 's Ducts ; from which Glands and Ducts , as also from the Buccal , Labial , and Gringival Glands , the Saliva flows from all parts of the Mouth without the Teeth .
From Wharton 's and the Sublingual Ducts , from the ~ , Fauces , Fretum Stenonis , Gingival , Lingual and Palatine Glands , the Saliva is derived , from the upper and lower , former and hinder parts of the Mouth within the Teeth .
What has been said of these Salivary Glands , &amp;c. will be best understood by the following Figures , which were * Page .
542 .
~Adenol .
p. 5 .
n. 11 .
*Sialog .
p. 15 .
158 .
drawn for me in October , 1697 .
at Trin .
Coll. Oxon .
by Mr. Burghers , and have been lately compared with the Parts themselves in Cows , Calves , &amp;c. These Figures are part of many more taken from Preparations at the same time , which were figured in the same Order as drawn .
This is the Reason that the Cuts are marked in this manner , and it ca n't be of use to alter these Marks and Numbers .
The Insertions of all the Lymphatick Vessels into the Veins can be discovered but in few Subjects , and no Figure has yet been given of them .
These Figures show the Course of the Lympha both below and above the Subclavians in Men , and Axillars in Dogs .
The Lympha below the Receptaculum Chyli is conveyed from all the inferior Parts by a great number of small Lymphatick Vessels , which uniting with others obliquely above the Valves , become bigger in proportion , till at length they constitute two large Trunks near the Emulgents , which are the Pedunculi or Beginnings of the Receptaculum Chyli .
The Lympha from the Parts above the Subclavians , is derived in like manner from lesser Lymphaticks , to the common Ducts that are here delineated .
I know Pecquet has given a Cut of the Thoracick Duct in a Dog ; which Duct is double from the Receptacle , and is inserted by four Branches into each Axillar .
I believe with * Bartholine , ( who has borrowed this Figure from Pecquet ) that such an Insertion is a Lusus Naturae .
For tho ' the Thoracick Duct may be double , and is sometimes divided into two Parts near the Subclavians , yet generally it is single , the Lympha from all parts on both sides the Body being carried by proper Lymphaeducts into one common Thoracick Duct , that conveys this Liquor , together with the Chyle from the Lacteals , into the left *Barth .
p. 616 , 620 .
Subclavian Vein , by one , three , or more Branches .
For there is as great a variety in the number of these Branches , as in the places of their Insertion .
Mr. Cowper injected the Thoracick Duct in a Humane Subject , and has given a Figure of that Preparation in his Book of Anatomy .
But this Figure is imperfect , and the Insertion of the Thoracick Duct so ill drawn , that little can be learnt by it .
However , no Anatomist has given any Cut , that demonstrates the Insertions of the Lymphaticks from both Arms and both sides of the Head , &amp; c above the Subclavian Veins , which appear so plain in these Figures , that no Description can make them plainer .
Explanation of the Figures .
Fig. 12 .
Demonstrates the Passages , or Vessels , by which the Chyle and Lympha pass into the Veins of a Dog .
12 , 12 Those Lymphaticks that bring Lympha from the Thighs and lower Parts .
13 , 13 Are lateral Lymphaticks arising from the Groin , Testicles , and neighbouring Parts .
14 The Receptacle of the Chyle .
15 An Indenture in the Receptacle , thro ' which passes one Tendon of the Diaphragm .
16 Lymphaticks from a neighbouring Gland .
17 Some Lymphaticks from the Diaphragm .
18 An Artory that serves the Loins , and runs through a Division of the Receptacle .
19 The Pancreas ~ .
20 The Vasa Lactea 2di Generis .
21 The beginning of the Ductus Thoracicus .
22 Some Divarications of the Ductus .
* Barth .
p. 620 .
23 The Continuation of the Ductus , and its progress .
24 The Aorta Descendens .
N B. 18 , 24 by their Pulsation ( and the Tendon at 15 ) much promote the Ascent of the Chyle and Lympha .
25 A common Divarication of the Duct .
26 A Lymphatick from some neighbouring Gland .
27 A double Lymphatick from the secondary Gland 42 , in Fig. 13 .
28 That part of the Ductus Thoracicus where both its Branches , and the Lymphaticks from the left side of the Head and left Fore-Leg meet .
29 The Lymphaticks from the left side of the Head and left Fore-Leg united ; they lie on the inside of the Vein .
30 A Lymphatick with a Pin in it from a neighbouring Gland , perhaps the Thymus .
31 A Lymphatick from the Neck , &amp;c. It is divided and enters the Jugular by two distinct Branches under the Sacculus 43 .
32 The Lymphatick from the right side of the Head .
33 The Lymphatick from the right Fore-Leg .
34 The large Sacculus , or Receptacle of the Lympha , on the right side , that receives all the Lympha on that side , and conveys it into the Jugular .
35 The Cava Descendens .
36 The Vena Mammaria , which is sometimes single .
37 The Venae Subclaviae .
38 The Vena Vertebralis .
39 The Axillars .
40 The Jugulars .
41 The right internal Jugular not injected .
42 A small secondary Lymphatick Gland on the back part of the top of the Thorax .
43 The Sacculus , that receives all the Chyle and Lympha from the whole Body ( except 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 .
) and discharges it into the Vein : at least we know of no other Lymphaticks that any where else enter the Veins .
44 A Lymphatick , ( or Membrane , for it was not injected ) that joins 29 to the largest Branch os the Ductus Thoracicus .
Fig. 13 .
Is the upper part of Fig. 12 .
reversed , the Duct , &amp;c. being turned up , that the insertion , both Sacculi , &amp;c. may be better discovered .
This is to be explained by the preceding , and has only from 42 to 44 more Figures than the upper part of Fig. 12 .
has ; all which are already taken notice of .
N. B. In this Subject the Chyle and Lympha are emptied into the Jugulars , and not into the Axillars ; they are sometimes emptied partly into the Jugular , and partly into the Axillar , or Subclavian .
In Men generally into the Subclavian .
Fig. 14 .
Represents part of the Left Cheek of an Ox , separated from the lower Jaw-bone , with the external Maxillar Glands , its Ducts , &amp;c. 1 , 2 , 3 , &amp;c. to 14 .
Bristles inserted into the Ducts of the external Maxillary Gland ll l. These Ducts open sloping into the Mouth , for the better mixture of the Saliva with the Food .
15 The Duct 3 injected with Wax , to discover its division and bigness , in respect of the Orifice .
16 A Lobulus of the Maxillar Gland .
Its excretory Duct is filled with Wax , and ends at 15 .
17 The Duct I laid bare and opened , to show its large Cavity , &amp;c. A A , Part of the Muscles and Fat , &amp;c. belonging to the lower Jaw .
B B , Part of the internal Membrane that invests the Mouth .
abc d , Bristles in those Ducts of the Buccal Glands , n n , that I could pass any into .
ee e , Those Orifices of the Buccal Glandules , that were too little to admit Bristles .
kk k , The Papillae on the inside of the Mouth .
ll l , The Lobes that constitute the external Maxillar Gland .
mm m , The Orifices of the Labial Glandules p p , that were too small for passing Bristles .
nn n , Buccal Glandules interspersed between the Lobules of the Maxillar Gland .
nnn near rr r , Part of the Buccal Glandules , where they appear thickest , and are raised to discover the Ducts rr r , running under them .
pp p , The Labial Glandules like the Buccal .
Mr. Cowper in Fig. 4 .
letters them H , H. rr r , The Ducts marked 6 , to 14 .
as they appear under the Glandules n n. N. B. The same Numbers and Letters express the same Things in the following Figures .
Fig. 15 .
Exhibits part of the left Jaw-bone and Cheek of a Sheep , where the Bristles 1 , 2 , 3 , &amp;c. show the constant number of excretory Ducts from the external Maxillary Gland in these Animals .
Fig. 16 .
Shows part of the right Cheek of a large Dog , taken from the lower Jaw-bone .
f , The Orifice of Steno 's Salival Duct .
g , The Orifice of Nuck 's Duct , which rises as a Papilla on the Membrane B B. h , Nuck 's new Duct , not found in Men , Oxen , or Sheep , but in Dogs , their Orbit not being entirely bony .
i , Nuck 's Gland .
oo o , The Orifices of some excretory Ducts , belonging to the external Maxillar Gland , that were too strait for the admission of Bristles .
q q , The Teeth .
In this Subject they are the Teeth of the upper Jaw ; near the second of which , the Orifice of Nuck 's Duct appears .
Fig. 17 .
Demonstrates the back part ( next the Cutis ) of the external Maxillar Gland of the same Dog , as it is beset with the Buccal Glandules .
Fig. 18 .
Explains the external Maxillar Gland in the right Cheek of a Calf .
In this Subject I could only probe two Ducts , 3 , &amp;c. would not admit Bristles .
Philosoph:~ Fig : 14 .
123456789 10 11 12 13 14 ~~ a eBbcdk nnnB 15 m L 16 l~ l A Fig : 15 123456 ee Fig : 16 g B2f 3~e mab8abc4l mc69dce~ m75oB ~ nnnnnnnA An ~ : Transact : N.o364 nB m ~ q gh feq e B 2 mBm123 ~ ll Fig : 18 .
Philosoph Transact Dublin Tuesday Jan. 12 .
17 10/ 20 .
40 minutes after 11 at night 32 33 40 Fig. 12 .
29 34 31 41 28 A 39 40 30 Aa 37 A 37 39 bb bb 35 38 26 36 27 25 24 CB 23 22 D C 24 D 22 E Fig : 12 17 Fig : 13 F 27 25 42 26 39 36 38 35 19 37 20 14 40 18 30 44 43 31 ~ .
N.o 364 23 40 4 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 21 24 14 16 15

