20 Mr. C. Schorlemmcr on the [ June 16 , XVIII .
tcChemical and Physiological Experiments on living Cin-chonse .
" By J. Broughton , B.Sc. , E.C.S. , Chemist to the Cinchona-Plantations of the Madras Government .
Communicated by Dr. Edward Erankland .
Received May 16 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir describes the principal scientific results which have been obtained during the last three years , in the course of chemical work on the Neilgherry Cinchona-plantations .
The chemical characteristics of the various parts of the Cinchona plant are described .
The condition in which the alkaloids are met with in the living bark is shown to be that of a slightly soluble tannate existing in the parenchymatous cells .
The order of formation of the alkaloids is shown to he , 1st , uncrystal-lizable quinine ; 2nd , crystallizable quinine ; 3rd , cinchonidine and cinchonine .
Reasons are adduced for thinking that the alkaloids are really formed in the tissues in which they are found .
The effect of the solar rays falling on the bark , either while living on the tree or when separated , is shown to be prejudicial to its contained alkaloids .
The effects of shielding the bark artificially , and the influence of elevation of the site of growth , are detailed .
The question as to whether the alkaloids are substitutes for the mineral bases is discussed , and a series of experiments is described , which combine to show either that such substitution does not take place , or does so only in a very partial degree , XIX .
( \lt ; Researches on the Hydrocarbons of the Series Cnll2n+2"\#151 ; VI .
By C. Schorlemmer .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received June 14 , 1870 .
In my last communication* I stated that , from the results of my experiments , I came to the conclusion that , by acting on these hydrocarbons with chlorine , a mixture of 'primary and secondary chlorides was formed , as the alcohols derived from these chlorides yielded on oxidation , besides an acid containing the same number of carbon atoms as the alcohol , also acetones , or the characteristic oxidation products of secondary alcohols .
The correctness of this conclusion has been fully proved by further experiments , and I am at present engaged in investigating the conditions under which the one or the other of these chlorides is formed .
In order to obtain decisive results , it was first of all required to work on considerable quantities of a hydrocarbon ; and I selected for this research hexyl-hydride , Ce II14 , from petroleum , as this body can be obtained the most easily in a sufficient quantity .
The derivatives of hexyl-hydride have been fully investigated by Cahours * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xviii .
p. 25 ,

