448 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Apr. 6 , movements which follow the administration of the bile-acids .
I choose one of five experiments nearly all alike .
Dec. 19th.\#151 ; The anterior cerebral hemispheres of a frog , leaving the optic thalami uninjured , removed .
The foot was irritated by being plunged in water made just perceptibly acid to taste by sulphuric acid .
The numbers are in seconds .
12.22 .
12 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 6 , 7 , G. 12.32 .
*5 cubic centimetre of bile-acid solution injected under the skin of the back .
12.39 .
1 , 2 , 1 , 1 , 29 , 27 , 15 , 16 , 21 , 28 , 22 , 26 .
The head cut off at 1 o'clock .
1.25 .
9 , 9 , 9 , 9 , 10 , 10,10 .
In all cases a minute passed between the application of the irritant , and the foot was well washed with distilled water after each observation .
From these observations it would appear that the reflex irritability is greatly diminished by the bile-acids .
N In conclusion I wish to express my best thanks to Professor Burdon Sanderson , E.R.S. , and to Dr. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. , for their great kindness in giving me invaluable advice and assistance throughout the research .
Many of the experiments were made in the Jodrell Laboratory at University College , London , under Professor Burdon Sanderson 's eye ; and the remainder were made in the Pharmacological Laboratory of my friend and colleague Dr. Lauder Brunton , at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
III .
" On the Structure of a Species of occurring at Tahiti , Society Islands .
" By H. N. Moseley , Naturalist to the f Challenger ' Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. Wyville Thomson , E.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff .
Received March 6 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper treating mainly of the structure of communicated to the Royal Society in the autumn of 1875 , some account was given of results arrived at from the examination of two species of Millepora obtained at Bermuda and at Zamboangan , Philippines ; and in that paper a summary of the literature concerning the tabulate corals generally was given .
The present paper , to be considered to a certain extent a continuation of the last , gives an account of the structure of a species of Millepora obtained at Tahiti , Society Islands .
The author commences by expressing his obligations to his colleague Mr. J. Murray , who obtained living specimens of the Millepora and handed them over to him with the zooids in the expanded condition for examination , and who further , having devoted some time to the study of the coral , gave him valuable information with regard to several points in its structure .
1876 .
] Structure of a Species 0/ Millepora .
449 No Millepora appears to have been hitherto known to occur at Tahiti .
The name of the species of the one the structure of which is described in the paper was not ascertained .
It resembles , as described by Milne-Edwards * , in outward form , but differs from it in having the ealicles of two kinds disposed on the surface of the corallum in regular separate systems , in this respect resembling more closely M. plicata , M. foliata , and M. Ehrenbergii as described by the same author .
The coral was examined in the fresh condition , and also preserved in alcohol , chromic acid , and glycerine , and treated with osmic acid .
Hardened specimens were decalcified and examined by means of sections .
The corallum is a spongy mass composed of more or less contorted trabeculae 'of calcareous matter , which is disposed in a series of thin layers following the contours of the surface , and representing successive additions by growth .
Within these layers ramify a series of canals which give off branches and subbranches , the whole ramifications being intimately connected with one another , and with the calicular cavities , by a network of smaller channels .
The main canals are sometimes large enough to be easily seen by the naked eye , and run for as great a distance on the surface of the corallum as 1-| inch .
This system of branching canals is held to be characteristic of the coralla formed by the hydroid genus Millepora , distinguishing it from all other coralla .
The calicles are of two kinds , small and large .
They are disposed on the surface of the corallum in irregularly circular systems .
A large calicle occupies the centre of each system , and is surrounded by a ring of smaller calicles , usually from five to eight in number .
In histological structure , as also in chemical composition f , the coralla of the genus Millepora seem to show no marked differences from Anthozoan coralla .
The zooids are of two kinds .
The one , short and stout , occupies the larger central calicles of the systems , has from four to six short knobbed tentacles , and is provided with a mouth and certain gastric cells , closely resembling those figured by Allman as occurring in Gemmaria \#163 ; .
The other kind occupies the smaller calicles , is longer and more slender than the mouthed zooid , has from five to twenty tentacles , and no trace of a mouth .
The usual number of tentacles in the mouthless [ zooid is about twelve to fifteen .
The tentacles are larger than in the mouthed zooid , and disposed at irregular intervals along the body .
They show the transverse striation , or apparent septa , so characteristic of the tentacles of hydroids .
They have spheroidal heads composed of masses of thread-cells .
The zooids of both kinds are provided with well-marked longitudinal * Hist. Not .
des Oorallaires , pi .
F 3 .
figs , la , 16 .
; t Structure and Classification of Zoophytes , by J. D. Dana ( Philadelphia , 1846 ) , J Appendix , p. 130 .
Corals and Coral Islands , ejusd .
( London , 1872 ) , p. 105 .
+ Gymnoblastic and Tubularian Hydroids , pi .
viii .
fig. 5 .
450 On the Structure of a Species of Millepora .
[ Apr. 6 , muscular fibres , which are disposed in bundles , and are attached interiorly to the vessels of the hydrophyton which join the somatic cavity at the base of the zooids .
Circular muscular fibres are possibly also present .
As in Heliopora , only a thin layer at the surface of the coral is living .
The soft parts of the hydrophyton consist of a network of canals and vessels occupying the corresponding canals in the corallum .
The canals are composed of an ectoderm and endoderm .
The ectoderm rests on a thin layer of membrane .
It is mainly composed of fusiform fine granular cells with an oval nucleus , but is much modified in certain regions .
In the upper part of the living layer its cells are abundantly converted into the parent cells of thread-cells , and on the actual surface into a layer of prismatic cells showing at the very surface hexagonal outlines .
This layer is believed to be continuous over the whole outer surface of the coral .
It is continued down into the calicular cavities , and in the contracted condition almost closes their orifices .
The endoderm consists of two elements\#151 ; yellow pigmented cells closely similar to those of other hydroids , and small transparent highly refracting globules .
The pigmented cells are- abundant in the somatic cavities of the zooids , and in the canals and vessels of the hydrophyton .
They impart a bright yellow colour to the tips of the tubercles of the living coral .
The canal-system of the hydrophyton anastomoses most freely with the somatic cavities of the zooids , and establishes a free communication between them .
Two kinds of thread-cells are present .
The one is of the peculiar form occurring only in Hydrozoa , viz. that which has in the expanded condition a short , wide , bladder-like structure at the base of the thread next the cell , which bladder is armed with three spines set in one whorl .
In Millepora the spines are unusually long and set at right angles to the thread .
This kind of thread-cell alone occurs in the tentacles ; it occurs also more sparingly in the hydrophyton .
The other kind of thread-cell is larger and ovoidal in form , closely resembling that figured by Allman as occurring in These thread-cells are confined to the hydrophyton .
They form densely set zones around the bases of the zooids .
The other species of Millepora examined appear to agree in all essential particulars with that occurring at Tahiti .
They have mouthed and mouthless zooids , but these are not arranged in regular systems .
They have the same two kinds of thread-cells , with a similar distribution .
The Tahitian Millepora , like the others examined , is infested by a parasitic fungus , which exists in the soft superficial tissues , as well as in the substance of the corallum , and has a decided green tint .

