130 Profs .
W. B. Bottomley and H. Jackson .
[ June 11 , paratively easy ; and it is found that a good deal of the work can be utilised afterwards in the transition to the three-dimensional cases .
Again , the investigation of a simple-harmonic source of disturbance is a natural preliminary to that of a source varying according to an arbitrary law .
Incidentally , new solutions are given of the well-known problems where a periodic force acts transversally to a line , or at a point , in an unlimited solid .
These serve , to some extent , as tests of the analytical method , which presents some features of intricacy .
" Some Preliminary Observations on the Assimilation of Carbon Monoxide by Green Plants .
" By W. B. Bottomley , Professor of Botany , King 's College , London , and Herbert Jackson , Assistant Professor of Chemistry , King 's College , London .
Communicated by Professor J. Eeynolds Green , Sc.l ) .
, F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
During an investigation by one of us some years ago on " Carbon Monoxide in some of its Physiological Effects , " a few experiments were made on plants , and it was noticed that a hyacinth , which had commenced growth and was showing a few small leaves , continued to grow for some weeks when placed in a bell jar in which the air had been replaced by a mixture of 80 per cent , of carbon monoxide and 20 per cent , of oxygen .
As this was contrary to the usually accepted ideas as to growth of green plants in carbon monoxide , a number of experiments were recently commenced with a view to determining how far carbon monoxide could replace carbon dioxide as a source of carbon supply for green plants .
Although the hyacinth grew in carbon monoxide the experiment was not considered conclusive , because of the large stores of carbohydrates in the bulb .
Young plants of Tropceolum majus , grown in sterilised sand and supplied with a nutritive solution free from all traces of carbonates , were therefore used .
It was found that Tropceolum plants would not grow in air in which the carbon dioxide had been replaced by an equal quantity of carbon monoxide .
When , however , the relative solubilities of the two oxides of carbon in water were taken into account , and the amount of carbon monoxide was increased proportionately\#151 ; about twenty times as much carbon monoxide as carbon dioxide\#151 ; the plants grew well , being healthy and normal .
Experiments were also made with varying proportions of carbon monoxide in air free from all traces of carbon dioxide .
The plants grew freely and well in proportions varying from 1 to 70 per cent , of carbon monoxide , when care was taken that as the higher percentages of carbon monoxide 1903 .
] Assimilation of Carbon Monoxide by Green Plants .
131 were reached , oxygen was added so as to keep the amount of this gas approximately equal to that in normal air .
One very significant fact was noticed during the experiments .
When in bright sunshine a negative pressure was always observed in the bell jars containing plants growing in carbon monoxide .
This result tends to confirm Baeyer 's theory of photosynthesis .
In normal photosynthesis the volume of oxygen given off is equal to the volume of carbon dioxide undergoing decomposition .
If , however , carbon monoxide be used directly by the plant , only half the amount of oxygen would be given off , hence the negative pressure .
Experiments were also made to find if starch was formed in plants growing in carbon monoxide .
Tropplants growing in water culture solution were placed in the dark for 48 hours , when the leaves were shown by the iodine test to be free from starch .
Some of the plants were then placed in air free from carbon dioxide ; others in carbon dioxide free air , but containing 10 per cent , of carbon monoxide .
All were then exposed to sunlight for three days , and again examined for starch .
The plants grown in carbon dioxide free air had formed no starch , whilst those grown in carbon monoxide gave the iodine test most markedly .
Sections of the green stems showed quantities of starch grains in the ground tissue , especially crowded around the vascular bundles , in the plants grown in carbon monoxide , but none in those grown in carbon free air .
Experiments on the germination and growth of seeds in carbon monoxide also gave satisfactory results .
Seeds of sativum were planted in sterilised sand and placed in a mixture of 65 per cent , carbon monoxide and 35 per cent , oxygen .
The seeds germinated and formed healthy plants , growing quite normally for three weeks .
Certain preliminary determinations of the amount of carbon in the seeds and in the plants point to the accumulation of organic carbon , and as the only possible source for this increase of carbon is the carbon monoxide , some of it must have been assimilated .
These results are so important and the results so striking that it has been thought advisable to repeat the determinations with new and specially devised apparatus before quoting figures .
Also it is intended to carry out further experiments with carbon monoxide , and with compounds in which the CO-group exists in combination .
In all these experiments with carbon monoxide , great care was taken that efficient absorbers of carbon dioxide were used , and the pressure in the bell jars was regulated by potash-sealed valves .
The present communication is only a note to indicate the general bearings of the research , and does not give any account of many experiments and observations of interest which the authors hope to give later in a detailed paper .
i. VOL. LXXII .

