1886 .
] Fossil Remains of Meiolania , 315 and finally the following values of the latitudes and longitudes of evanescent tides:\#151 ; Nature of tide .
1st hypothesis .
2nd hypothesis .
Long period lat. Aq 34 ' 33 ' N. 34 ' 7 ' N. Diurnal lat. \i long .
Z , 0 ' 57'S .
53 47 E. 0 ' 57'S .
53 46 E. Semi-diurnal bt .
Aj long .
l2 81 ' 23'N .
2 56 W. 81 ' 21 ' N. 2 56 W. The estimation of corrections due to these supplementary portions has been checked in two cases by a detailed extension of the method of square blocks of land used previously for evaluation of the whole integrals ; that is to say , two of these portions were separately divided into square degrees ( instead of squares whose sides were each ten degrees ) , and the integral evaluated in a similar manner to that previously described .
The agreement of the values so calculated with those obtained by the above method of estimation was sufficiently exact to justify a certain confidence in the close agreement of the finally corrected values of the integrals with their theoretically perfect values .
H. H. T. II .
" Description of Fossil Remains of two Species of a Mega-lanian Genus ( Meiolania , Ow .
) , from Lord Howe 's Island .
" By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) In a scientific survey by the Department of Mines , New South Wales , of Lord Howe 's Island , fossil remains were obtained which were transmitted to the British Museum of Natural History , and were confided to the author for determination and description .
These fossils , referable to the extinct family of horned Saurians described in former volumes of the " Philosophical Transactions under the generic name Megalania , form the subject of the present paper .
They represent species smaller in size than Megalania Ow .
, and with other differential characters on which an allied genus Meiolania is founded .
Characters of an almost entire skull with part of the lower jaw-bone , of some vertebras and parts of the scapula and pelvic arches , are assigned to the species Meiolania * Yol .
149 , 1858 , p. 43 ; ib. , 1880 , p. 1037 j 1881 , p. 1037 .
316 Magnetic Declination and Horizontal Force .
[ Apr. 1 , platyceps .
Portions of a cranium and mandible are referred to a Meiolania minor .
Both species , as in Megalania , are edentulous with modifications of the mouth indicative of a horny beak , as in the Chelonian order .
The cranial and vertebral characters are , however , sauroid .
Horn-cores in three pairs are present but shorter relatively , especially the first and third pairs , than in Megalania prisca .
The indication of a seventh more advanced and medial horn is feeble , and the author remarks that in the small existing lizard ( ) this horn has not an osseous support .
The tail of Meiolania is long and stiff ; the vertebrae being encased by an osseous sheath , developing , as in Megalania , tuberous processes in two pairs , corresponding with the vertebrae within : such defensive parts are less developed , relatively , than in Megalania prisca .
The locality of these singular remains is an insular tract not exceeding 6 miles by 1 mile in extent ; situated mid-way between Sydney and Norfolk Island , in lat. 31 ' 31 ' S. , long .
159 ' 9 ' E. The island is formed of three raised basaltic masses connected by low-lying grounds of blown coral-sand formation , consisting of rounded grains and fragments of corals and shells .
In the parts of this formation converted into rock were found the petrified remains which are the subject of the present paper .
It is accompanied by drawings of the most instructive fossils : these form the subjects of five plates illustrative of the text .
III .
" On the L uni-Solar Variations of Magnetic Declination and Horizontal Force at Bombay , and of Declination at Trevan-drum .
" By Charles Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory , Bombay .
Received March 24 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The materials described in this paper are twenty-five years of declination observations , and twenty-six and a half years of horizontal force observations , taken at the Colaba Observatory , Bombay , and some results of ten years declination observations taken at the Trevandrum Observatory .
A consideration of the lunar diurnal variations derived from these observations for different seasons and phases of the moon , leads the author to form the hypothesis that these variations are , properly speaking , combinations of solar diurnal variations that run through a cycle of change in a lunation .
The characteristics of the variations that give rise to the hypothesis are ( 1 ) that generally the great movements occur in them , as in the mean solar diurnal variations for full lunations , in the solar day , whilst the night hours are relatively quiescent ; and ( 2 ) that they

