376 On the Chemical Mechanism of Gastric Secretion .
By J. S. Edkins , M.A , M.B. Cantab , Lecturer on Physiology in the Medical School of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , London .
( Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.B.S. Beceived May 13 , \#151 ; Bead May 18 , 1905 .
) It has long been known that the introduction of certain substances into \amp ; the stomach provoke a secretion of gastric juice .
This is regarded as in no sense depending upon mere mechanical stimulation of the mucous membrane , ; and it has been thought that the nervous mechanism of the gastric glands may be susceptible to certain local chemical stimuli .
On the analogy of what has been held to be the mechanism at work in the secretion of pancreatic juice by Bayliss and Starling , it is probable that , in the process of absorption of digested food in the stomach , a substance may be separated from the cells of the mucous membrane which , passing into the blood or lymph , later stimulates the secretory cells of the stomach to functional activity .
The following observations support this view :\#151 ; If an extract in 5 per cent , dextrin of the fundus mucous membrane be injected into the jugular vein , there is no evidence of secretion of gastric juice .
If the extract be made with the pyloric mucous membrane , there is evidence of a small quantity of secretion .
With dextrin by itself there is no secretion .
Extracts of fundus mucous membrane in dextrose or maltose give no secretion ; extracts of pyloric mucous membrane give marked secretion ; dextrose or maltose alone bring about no secretion .
If extracts be made , with commercial peptone , it is found that no secretion occurs with the fundus mucous membrane , a marked secretion with the pyloric mucous membrane ; the peptone alone gives a slight secretion .
If the extracts be made by boiling the mucous membrane in the different media , the effect is just the same , that is to say , the active principle , which may be called " gastrin , " is not destroyed by boiling .
Finally , it may be pointed out that such absorption as occurs in the stomach apparently takes place in the pyloric end .
With the pig 's stomach , in which the true cardiac region differs from the typical fundus region in having only simple glands as in the pyloric , extracts of the cardiac region in general have the same efficacy in promoting secretion , as do pyloric .

