392 On the Magnetic Action of Displacement-currents .
[ Feb. 28 It will be seen , then , that the continuity is practically perfect , both as regards the intensities of the lines and the presence in each star of the lines necessary for perfect continuity .
VIII .
Sequence of Spectra in Group III .
The general sequence of spectra in passing from the earlier to the later species of Group III is as follows , as far as the observations have at present gone:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The hydrogen lines are thin .
D is thicker than The iron fluting is faint .
499 , E , 5327 , 540 , 568 , and 579 are thin .
546 and 558 are fairly thick .
( 2 .
) The hydrogen lines are thicker .
F , D , and b are equally thick .
E , 5327 , 540 , 579 , and 499 are much thicker , being nearly as strong as F. The iron fluting has gone .
( 3 .
) The hydrogen lines are very much thicker than the other lines .
D and b are equally thick .
E is nearly as strong as 6 , while the other lines are fainter .
( 4 .
) The hydrogen lines are very broad , while all the remaining lines are exceedingly faint .
Subsequent work will no doubt enable us to further divide these sub-groups into finer species .
II .
" On the Magnetic Action of Displacement-currents in a Dielectric .
" By Silvanus P. Thompson , D.Sc .
, B.A. Communicated by Professor G. Carey Foster , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) According to Maxwell 's well-known views of electrostatic action , the variations of electric displacement which occur during the charge or discharge of a dielectric are to be regarded as equivalent to electric currents .
No direct experimental proof of this point has hitherto been forthcoming .
The author having calculated out on the assumption of the equivalence between displacement-currents and conduction-currents , what the efEect would be of the charge or discharge of a condenser upon a delicately astatised needle placed near the edge of the condenser , concludes that the effects would be too delicate to he measurable .
He therefore resorted to a different method based upon the principle that , if a closed curve be drawn around the An* 0 electrostatic displacement , the line-integral of the magnetising force , reckoned once round this closed curve , will at any instant be a measure of the rate of change in the electric displacement through the curve .
Two forms of apparatus for realising this in an exponPresents .
1889 .
] mental way were constructed .
In the more satisfactory form of the apparatus an iron annulus surrounded by a coil of fine silk-covered copper wire is embedded in a layer of paraffin wax between two glass plates , and pieces of tinfoil are affixed on the outside surfaces of the plates to serve as the coatings of a condenser .
The electric displacement passes through the aperture of the iron annulus .
Any changes in that displacement set up magnetic forces acting round the iron annulus , which , thereby , is subjected to a varying magnetisation .
The annulus in turn sets up induction currents in the copper wire that surrounds it , these induction currents being received and rendered audible in an ordinary telephone receiver .
The condenser is connected to a Ruhmkorff coil which rapidly charges and discharges it .
The sounds heard in the telephone receiver establish the reality of the magnetic action of the variations in the electric displacement .
The author points out that this device , which may be regarded as a new kind of proof plane for exploring varying electrostatic fields , is probably capable of other useful applications , such as the investigation of specific inductive capacities .
Presents , February 28 , 1889 .
Transactions .
Baltimore :\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Vol. VI .
8vo .
Baltimore 1888 .
The University .
Brisbane:\#151 ; Royal Society of Queensland .
Proceedings .
Vol. V. Part 4 .
8vo .
Brisbane 1888 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Harvard College .
Annual Reports .
1887-88 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1889 .
The College .
Dundee:\#151 ; University College .
Museum of Zoology .
Studies .
Vol. I. Nos. 1\#151 ; 5 .
4to .
Dundee 1888\#151 ; 89 .
Professor D'Arcy Thompson .
London :\#151 ; Anthropological Institute .
Journal .
Vol. XVIII .
No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Institute .
Geological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Vol. XLV .
No. 177 .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Society .
Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings .
1888 .
No. 4 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .
Odontological Society of Great Britain .
Transactions .
Vol. XXL No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Society .
Royal Institution .
Proceedings .
Vol. XII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
London 1889 ; List of Members , with Report of the Visitors , \amp ; c. 1888 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .

