6 .
" The Human Iris ; its Structure and Physiology .
" By Bernard E. Brodhurst , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received May 22 , 1851 .
The author commences by stating that the iris is an active fibrocellular tissue , or that it may be considered to be a transition tissue from the ordinary fibro-cellular to the organic muscular : that it is a tissue differing from every other in the body ; being possessed of a motor power exceeding that of any other tissue , yet differing in construction and appearance of fibre from those other tissues , the types of motion .
EI-e remarks that the microscope shows that the fibres of the iris differ essentially from muscular fibre , whether striped , or of organic life : they are pale , easily separable and readily torn ; but they resemble in no essential particular muscular fibre ; indeed , the effect of galvanism on the iris is totally opposed to that produced on muscular fibre .
He observes that the nerves that pass to the iris are derived from both motor , sensitive and vegetative nerves ; but voluntary motion is not supplied , neither sensation .
The motions of the iris are wholly independent of the powers usually deemed motor ; they are influenced primarily by the sympathetic system of nerves , through which motion is accorded without sensation , motion without design .
In death , the author observes , the iris assumes a median state , the pupil being neither dilated nor contracted .
In health , it is contracted .
During sleep it is contracted .
During the presence of disease , thepupil is dilated , and so much dilated beyond its usual state , as the tonicity of the vegetative system is removed , as the presence of disease operates on the nutritive system to diminish not only the power of nutrition , but , in a like degree , tension of the visceral system ; nutrition and tension being as cause and effect of the healthy operation of this basic system of the animal oeconomy .
And as it is not essential to the motions of the iris , either to their performance or that they be understood , that they partake of any of those peculiarities , the distinguishing features of muscular tissue , and as we find that this membrane is obedient to those laws which are applicable to each organ under immediate sympathetic influence , and opposed to those phenomena which result from spinal and cerebral influence , it may be asserted that the contractility of the iris is , primno loco , the motor power of the sympathetic .
For the iris is an irritable membrane with power alone of involuntary motion and tension , its active condition agreeing in these respects with vegetative life in general .
And as animal death may be said to ensue when deep sleep takes possession of the senses , when those systems under spinal and cerebral influence are rendered inactive , to be fitted for renewed exertion on waking , it follows , that those organs which still remain active cannot be governed on the same principle , but must necessarily be subject to the sole remaining power , through which is accorded involuntary motion , motion which never tires , and tension its active condition .
The fimbriated edge of the ciliary body floats loosely in the posterior chamber around the lens , to produce , through the to and fro motion of each process ( their aggregate number representing a circle ) , a current forwards or towards the iris .
The force of this current is in a ratio to the pupillary opening , being increased as this is contracted , to produce , in proportion to its contraction , convexity of the iris .
On the escape of the aqueous humour from the chambers , these processes fall down to form a serrated border upon the lens .

