Dr. W. B. Carpenter .
[ June 14 , !
June 14 , 1883 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The- Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Dr. James Crichton Browne , Surgeon-Major George Edward Dobson , Dr. James Matthews Duncan , Mr. Charles Edward Groves , Professor Arnold William Reinold , and Mr. John James Walker were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Researches on the Foraminifera .
Supplemental Memoir .
On an Abyssal Type of the Genus Orbitolites a Study in the Theory of Descent .
" By W. B. Carpenter , C.B.- , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) ' V This paper is supplemental to the series of Memoirs formerly presented by the author on the structure of certain of the higher forms of the group of Foraminifera ; in which he laid down the new principles of classification afterwards worked out by him , in conjunction with Messrs. W. K. Parker and T. Rupert Jones , in his " Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera ; " and especially to the first of those memoirs ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1856 ) , which consisted of a Monograph of the genus Orbitolites , and of some general doctrines deduced from the study of it as to the Range of Variation in Species , a question which was much occupying the attention of philosophical naturalists .
The subsequent publication of Mr. Darwin 's " Origin of Species " having led him unhesitatingly to adopt the principle of " Descent with Modification " or " Genetic Continuity , " he had applied it to the construction of a pedigree of the Orbitoline type ; between the smallest and simplest , and the largest and most complex of which , he had shown in his first memoir that such " continuity " could be clearly traced out .
Starting with the very simplest type of Foraminiferal organisation \#151 ; a minute globular or pyriform monothalamous shell , with a single orifice , enclosing a particle of sarcode\#151 ; he showed ( 1 ) that the extension of such a particle into a spirally-coiled sarcodic cord , invested by a porcellanous shell , becomes a Gornus ; ( 2 ) that a constriction of this cord at the points at which additions are made to the length of ||gg3 .
] Researches on the Foraminifera .
277 the shell , with a partial interruption of the tube at these points , gives M Spirobculina , the ancestral form of the whole series ; Y3 ) that the flattening-out of this tube ( as in the more advanced growth of Gomuspira ) , and the formation of a complete septum across its mouth , traversed by separate pores for the issue of sarcodie filaments , convert it into a Peneroplis , whose sarcodic body consists of a Succession of segments , occupying the successive chambers of the ihell , which are divided by septal partitions , but are connected by !
ustolon processes " that traverse them ; ( 4 ) that the subdivision of these chambers by transverse partitions into " chamberlets , " and of the segments of the body into " sub-segments , " the shell still growing along a spiral axis , gives us OrUculina ; the chamberlets of each chamber retaining a communication with each other by a continuous Laiiery , which is occupied in the living state by a band of sarcode that connects together all the sub-segments formed by the division of any one segment ; and ( 5 ) that the opening-out of the Orbiculine spire , '.and- the progressive extension of the alee of its successively-formed chambers round its umbilicus , at last brings these aloe together , so that they unite into a continuous ring ; and by the addition of new rings to the periphery of the preceding , a circular disk is formed the plan of growth thus changing from the spiral to* the , which is the distinguishing character of Orbitolites .
The materials at that time possessed by the author only enabled him to trace back this pedigree with any certainty from the typical Ules , which exhibits no trace whatever of spiral growth , to the spiral Orbiculina ; but he expressed his belief that the " nuclear mass " in which every Orbitolites originates\#151 ; consisting of a pyriform " primordial segment , " surrounded by a single turn of the " circumambient segment , " is essentially an abbreviated Miliand he was thus led to rank Orbitolites as the most specialized type of the family Miliolida .
It was , therefore , with singular satisfaction that he found in a new form of Orbitoline disk , brought up from a depth of 1,500 fathoms in the " Porcupine " expedition of 1869 , the complete realisation of his hypothetical pedigree : the formation of this disk commencing in a minute primordial chamber , which first extends itself into a closely coiled spiral tube like that of a Gor then shows an incipient septation in the later coils of this tube , which constitutes it a -loculina ; then flattens-out and becomes camerated as a Peneroplis ; then undergoes the subdivision of its chambers which converts it into an Orbiculina ; and , finally , by the fusion of the lateral extensions of the chambers into complete annuli , assumes the cyclical plan of growth characteristic of Orbitolites .
To this beautiful species , whose disk attains a diameter of ^ of an inch , whilst its thickness does not exceed of an inch , the name Orbitolites tenuissima may be appro- : priately given .
278 Researches on the [ June U I he passage of each individual of this species through a series ol forms which , in the classification of M. D'Orbignv , belong to different Orders , sufficiently proves that , among Foraminifera , plan 0 ) growth is a character of secondary value ; whilst the retention , in the peifected disk , of the entire series of those ancestral forms , through which the very simplest of Foraminiferal organisms has become evolved into one of the most complex , invests this abyssal type of Orhitolites with a peculiar interest and value .
Having been for some time engaged in the study of the large collection of Orhitolites ( chiefly made on the Fiji reef ) brought home by the " Challenger , " with a view to the preparation ( at the request of the late Sir C. Wyville Thomson ) of a complete Report upon this generic type , the author has delayed the publication of this remarkable confirmation of his previously-expressed views , until he should have concluded his investigation of the large mass of new material which has thus come into his possession ; having early seen reason to believe that his recent study would prove of some value in its general relation to the Theory of Descent .
And he now offers the results of it as a contribution to that great inquiry , in the conviction that ( as was admirably said thirty-five years ago by Sir James Paget ) " the highest laws of our science are expressed in the simplest terms , in the lives of the lowest orders of creation .
" The aggregate of the phenomena presented by the evolutionary history of this type ( and equally , the author fully believes , by that of every other of the more complex types of Foraminifera ) may be thus summed up:\#151 ; 1 .
That there has been a progressive specialization in the structure of the shelly envelope , which , in the highest type of Orhitolites ( the large 0 .
complanata of the Calcaire Grossier and of the Fiji reefs ) attains a very extraordinary complexity .
2 .
That this specialization has followed a very definite and well-marked line .
3 .
That this progressive complication in the structure of the disk is attained without any corresponding specialization in the structure of the animal , whose sarcodic body retains throughout ( as far as the most careful examination can enable us to determine ) its primitive homogeneousness .
4 .
That all the ancestral forms through which the highest type has passed , are still living and flourishing under exactly the same conditions ( so far as can be ascertained ) as itself .
The full discussion which the doctrine of the " Origin of Species by Natural Selection " has now received , may be considered as having clearly established that what has been called the Law of Natural Selection is simply a generalised expression of the fact , that among the varetal forms continually arising de novo , those survive t$t83.1 On ^ie Great Omentum and Transverse Mesocolon .
279 which are best adapted to their environments .
The causes of such variation , not being in any way accounted for by " natural selection , " must be looked-for either in the influence of the " environment " on the organism , or on some tendency to vary inherent in the organism itself ; and the question which now most occupies the minds of thoughtful Evolutionists , is whether the variations that have conduced to the -establishment of the higher types are " aimless , " or whether they have ^followed a definite " plan .
" From a careful consideration of all the circumstances of this case , the author comes to the conclusion not only that such a " plan " can be clearly traced out in the present case , but that " natural selection " can have had scarcely any share in determining the progressive evolution and relative distribution of the several forms of the OrUioline type .
II .
" On the Development of the Great Omentum and Transverse Mesocolon .
" By C. B. Lockwood .
Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) r The paper begins by quoting the two usually accepted descriptions of the peritoneum as far as the relations of the omentum and transverse colon are concerned .
The old account , that which makes the transverse colon to be between the two ascending layers of the great omentum , is first given .
Afterwards the new account is repeated ; this says that the colon is not between the layers of the great omentum , but only adherent to them .
The development of the colon is next mentioned , and Haller 's theory , that the colon and omentum become adherent , is discussed .
Reasons are given to show that the old account of the peritoneum is the true one , and that , therefore , Haller 's theory is unacceptable .
After speaking of the development of the omentum and its relation to the transverse colon , the changes which the author believes to occur are described .
Instead of adhesion taking place between the omentum and colon , it is shown that the peritoneal fossa , which at early periods exists between them , gradually disappears , owing to an unfolding or drawing out of the peritoneum at that point .
It is further shown that when this has taken place the transverse colon comes to be between the two ascending layers of the great omentum .
A brief description of the anatomical preparations which accompany the paper is also given .

