330 Mr. H. E. Durham .
on the [ Jan. 26 , phagocytes which pass out through the dermal branchiae .
In conclusion , I should state that clumps of corpuscles occur , here and there , in the pore canals of the rnadreporite both of Asterias and Crihrellaocellata as seen in sections .
The madreporites and neighbouring structures were removed from full-grown specimens and then placed in hardening fluids : this being so , I think it not improbable that these corpuscles came from the cut end of the " heart , " and arrived at their position by the outward ciliary current , recently described by Dr. Hartog.* It is difficult to conceive that such an outflow of corpuscles should take place normally ; for then there must be a continual loss of ordinary as well as of corpuscles .
EXPLANATION O PLATE 3 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Section through a dermal branchia of Asterias rubens , after Indian ink injection , c. e. , coolomic epithelium ; c. t. , connective tissuee , epidermis ; cut .
, cuticle .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Corpuscles containing granules of Indian ink , taken off a branchia .
b , sphaeruliferous corpuscle .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Section through terminal portion of dermal branchia .
Note the plug of corpuscles ( p ) and crowding of epiderm nuclei at its sides .
The other letters as in fig. 1 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Sphseruliferous cells from slime .
I , liberated sphaerules .
II .
" Note on the Madreporite of ocellata .
" By Herbert E. Durham , B.A. , lately Vintner Exhibitioner , King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by P. Herbert Carpenter , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , F.L.S. Received January 5 , 1888 .
I have a series of vertical longitudinal ( radial ) sections carried through the madreporite , \amp ; c. , of a full-grown specimen of Cribrella ocellata : in this series the madreporic canals have a peculiar relation to the stone canal or water-tube .
Most of the pore canals pass into collecting canals which open into the stone canal directly : some few , however , lead into the space below the madreporite , which is the upper extremity of the " schlauchformiger Kauai .
" The stone canal dilates laterally on each side into an " ampulla , " and one of these lateral lobes of the ampulla has an aperture into the " schlauchfbrmiger Kanal .
" Now the " schlauchfbrmiger Kanal " is derived from the enteroccele ( Hamann ) , f so that in the specimen described there is a permanent connexion between the hydrocoele cavity and the enteroccele cavity .
# M. M. Ilartog , 'Ann .
Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' Nov. 1887 .
f O. Ilamann , ' Hie Asteriden , ' p. 51 , Jena , 18S5 .
1888.1 Madreporite of Cribrella ocellata .
Ludwig* states that he was unable to find any such connexion ( a connexion which would explain the injection results obtained by mauy observers ) in the forms investigated by him , and 1 can confirm his statement for Asteriaa rubens .
Neither in A. nor in Cribrella ocellata have I detected any connexion between the water vascular and " blood vascular " systems in this region of the body .
Section 1 ( fig. 5 ) passes along the upper extremity of the stone canal between the dilatations , and through one of the abnormal pore canals ( PM2 ) ; by examination of neighbouring sections it is seen that the lumen of the pore canal is continuous from the exterior to the " schlauchforraiger Kanal " ( Schl ) and also that there is a communication between the canals ( PM1 ) and ( PM2 ) .
Two other canals ( PM ) are seen opening into the stone canal ( St ) .
Section 2 ( fig. 6 ) passes through the aperture of communication between the ampulla and the " schlauchformiger Kanal .
" In this section the continuity of the " heart " or dorsal organ ( Ht ) and anal " blood ' ' ring ( Alt ) is seen ; also a gut vessel ( Gt .
) from the latter .
Fig. 5 .
PM PM .
' p S6ht .
Ht .
AR ' * H. Ludwig , * Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool./ vol. 30 , 1878 , pp. 103 , 104 .
332 Note on the Madreporite of Cribrella ocellata .
[ Jan. 26 , Fig. 6 .
sihi .
tit it .
AR- Gt I am not in a position to state that such is the usual arrangement in Cribrella : but that such a connexion should exist even as an abnormality is not without interest .
Mere closure of the internal aperture of the ampulla would not lead to the common asterid arrangement , because of the canals ( PM3 and PM1 ) and others with similar relations , which are some distance from the aperture of the ampulla .
EXPLANATION OF LETTERS .
Amp. Ampulla .
ARE .
Anal " blood vascular " ring .
Gt .
Tract of " blood-vessels 5 ' to gut .
Ht .
" Heart " or dorsal organ .
M. Madreporic ossicle .
Oss .
PM PM1 PM2 Schl .
" Schlauchformiger Kanal .
" St. Stone canal .
SHADING .
Light .
Connective tissue and muscle .
Dark .
Ossicles .
Black .
Epithelium of stone canal , \amp ; e. Cross .
" Blood vascular " tracts .
V Ossicles in body wall , l* Pore canals of madreporite .

