424 Dr. W."*L Russell .
On Action exerted by certain On the Action exerted by certain Metals and other Substances on a Photographic Plate .
" By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Received May 13 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
Having some years ago prepared for the purpose of spectroscopic examination several uranium compounds , it was of interest to make further use of them by repeating some of the very important experiments which Becquerel has made with these compounds .
He has shown that if the metal or some of its salts be placed on a photographic plate in perfect darkness , and allowed to remain there for some days , the plate becomes acted on , the action being rendered .evident by the ordinary photographic process of development .
This action is readily produced , and belongs apparently to all the salts of this metal , and , as Becquerel has shown , to uranous as well as uranic .salts .
It is very remarkable that this power belongs also to the sails when in solution , and , as the action passes through glass , solutions of the double chloride or of the nitrate contained in a thin glass bottle , when placed on a photographic plate , act readily upon it .
While speaking of these compounds it may be well to record some experiments which have been made to determine whether they lost \#166 ; their peculiar activity on being kept in the dark .
On the 10th August last , specimens of yellow oxide , recrystallised nitrate , and chloride , the latter in solution , were each divided into two equal portions , and all placed in similar clean thin glass bottles .
-One sample of each was theu placed in total darkness , and the other .kept in the light .
These samples have from time to time been tested by placing them on a photographic plate for a week and then .developing the plate in the usual manner .
Seven such examinations have been made at about one month 's interval .
Ho very marked .difference between the samples in the light anci the daxk has occuned , on the whole the samples preserved in the dark have proved slightly the most active , and thi3 was decidedly the case with all three -specimens at the last examination on JVEarch 2t\gt ; .
Another expen-inemt was begun a little later with the black oxide of uranium , which '\#166 ; appeals to be one of the most active of the uranium compounds ; .equal weights of a sample of this body were placed in two similar , pill-boxes with a glass bottom ; one has been kept in the dark , and ( he other in the light ; after five months there was no difference in the effect which they produced on the photographic plate ( Plate 2 ) .
The experiments are being continued .
When repeating these different uranium experiments and using a card painted with the yellow oxide , perforated zinc was made use of simply as a screen to show the Metals and other Substances on a Photographic Plate .
425 activity of the uranium compound by the density of the picture of the pattern formed , but in place of obtaining in all instances a negative of the perforated zinc , i.be the action occurring where the plate was exposed , and none where covered by the zinc , the reverse took place , and the greatest amount of action occurred underneath the zinc .
This happened over and over again , and even when the experiment was varied in different ways , so that the only explanation of the action was that the zinc itself must be able to effect a change of the same kind as the uranium , at all events , to act on a photographic plate , and further experiment with zinc alone proved this to be the case ; later on it became known to me that R. Colson had already described this action of zinc in a paper in the ' Comptes Rendus ' in January last , and had also found that similar results could be obtained with cadmium and with magnesium .
He explains this remarkable action as due to vapour given off by these metals .
Both before and after seeing the account of Colson 's Avork a large number of experiments have been made with zinc under different conditions , and there is no doubt of the ease and certainty with which the results can be obtained .
The zinc , as Colson states , must be bright ; if well rubbed with coarse sand-paper it is most active : probably this may , to some extent , arise from increase of surface ; if cleaned with acid or with caustic alkali it is not so active , and zinc in its ordinary condition after exposure to the air ceases to be active .
The salts also have no power of acting in this way .
A polished piece of zinc laid on a highly sensitive photographic plate will , under certain conditions even in four or five hours , so act on it that on development a complete picture of the zinc is produced , showing the scratches or any ruled lines or faint pattern drawn on it , or if flaws in the metal exist they are clearly seen .
A slight pattern produced on zinc by pressing on it a piece of white net and then rubbing it down with fine emery or sand-paper will give a picture in which the pattern is very evident .
In fact , such a pattern forms a satisfactory test of this action of the zinc .
Very slight alterations of the surface are shown in the picture .
Absolute contact of metal and plate is not necessary .
If screens of different thicknesses of any inactive substance be interposed between plate and metal , thus preventing contact , the action still occurs ; if the screen be very thin , a picture of the zinc surface i3 still obtained , but if thicker , only a dark cloudy patch is formed .
Still further , if a thick piece of glass tubing an inch long be placed on a photographic plate , and the upper end covered with a piece of polished zinc , in a week to a fortnight distinct action will be found to have taken place below the zinc .
Since the action thon .
is not one of mere contact , the next point was to ascertain whether it would be transmitted 426 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On the Action exerted by certain through different solid or liquid media .
Glass , even of the thinnest kind , was found to stop the action , but many other substances allow of its transmission .
Dor instance , the action takes place readily through celluloid , sheet gelatine gutta-percha tissue , collodion , vegetable parchment , real parchment , gold-beater 's skin , tracing paper , and no doubt many other bodies .
With all these bodies experiments have been made by placing the medium first in contact with the zinc and the photographic plate , then by introducing a screen so as to prevent the medium from touching the zinc , and then placing a second screen so that neither zinc nor plate were in contact with the medium .
The screens were made of different materials , most commonly of either white cardboard or sheet indiarubber , and of different thicknesses .
The details of each experiment need not be here described , but the general results obtained are that with thin sheet gelatine , either red , green , or blue when laid on the zinc , the action readily passes through , and a good clear picture of the surface of the zinc is obtained , and even with two sheets of gelatine a similar effect is produced .
With thick sheet gelatine interposed the action on the plate still takes place , but of course the exposure must be longer .
Warm solutions of gelatine were painted on polished zinc and allowed to harden ; the action took place through such layers as readily as through the films .
^Vlth scieens used as before described to prevent contact the gelatine still allowed the action to take place through it .
Thin sheets of celluloid about 0'28 mm. in thickness allowed the action to take place through them , and sheets 0'81 mm. in thickness also allowed the action to be transmitted .
Again , gutta-percha tissue was found to act in the same kind of way as the gelatine and celluloid .
The other media experimented with , although possibly not so uniform and continuous in structure as the foregoing , also allow this action to be transmitted to-them .
Gold-beater 's skin and tracing paper both allow the action readily to pass through , and pictures of the zinc are readily obtained .
If either of these bodies be placed between a piece of perforated zinc and the plate , the perforations are very distinctly shown , or if they be placed between a double screen with corresponding holes cut , a picture of the holes is readily obtained .
Both vegetable and real parchment are also transparent to this action , but not so much so as the previously-mentioned substances -r the vegetable parchment is more transparent than real parchment .
When in contact with the zinc a picture of the zinc surface is obtained , but this is somewhat modified by the substance of tho parchment .
If different kinds of ordinary papers , such as writing and drawing papers , be interposed between polished zinc and a photographic Metals and other Substances on a Photographic Plate .
427 plate , interesting results are obtained , for the pictures formed show clearly the structure of the papers , and also show that papers have very different powers of transmitting this action .
Certain writing papers are quite opaque to the action ; with others pictures of the structure and the watermark are easily obtained .
The painting a paper with India ink does not destroy its transparency .
Obviously pictures of bodies , such as skeleton leaves or dried flowers , \amp ; c. , are easily obtained in this way .
A mere difference of colour does not appear to alter the absorptive power of a medium ; at least , this is the case with gelatine .
The thin sheets of gelatine , whether red , green , or blue , have no difference in their absorptive power , and when gelatine , coloured with aniline dyes , is painted on polished zinc , the colour does not affect the amount of action which takes place .
The same thing happens if demi paper be painted with different coloured solutions of gelatine .
With ordinary pigments different results are obtained , but these results need not be discussed on the present occasion .
In addition to the metals cadmium and magnesium , mentioned by M. Colson , there are certainly many others which are able to produce effects similar to that produced by zinc .
There are also certain alloys which can act in the same way .
The following is a rough list of active metallic bodies approximately in the order of their activity : mercury , magnesium , cadmium , zinc , nickel , aluminium , pewter , fusible metal , lead , bismuth , tin , cobalt , antimony .
The above order , even if not absolutely correct , is sufficiently so to indicate that , although mercury is the most active , the other metals do not follow in the order of their fusibility or exactly according to any obvious physical property , but most nearly according to their position in the electrical series .
Mercury is , then , at ordinary temperatures the most active metal , and its action is exercised not only when the photographic plate is placed half an inch or so above the metal , but when gelatine , gutta-percha , tracing paper , vegetable parchment , are interposed .
It appears , however , that the action of the mercury does not take place as readily through gelatine , but more readily through gutta-percha than is the case with zinc .
Magnesium is also a very active metal , and very good pictures , showing every scratch on its surface , are easily obtained ; also very marked effects are produced when both single and double screens are used .
Cadmium also produces very good pictures , and is rather more active than zinc ; nickel and aluminium are not quite so active , but give good pictures ; then follow lead , bismuth , and tin .
The last metal is by far the least active .
Only a few alloys have at present been experimented with ; brass gives no action , but ordinary pewter , and fusible metal , consisting of lead , bismuth , and tin , were found to have considerable activity , and are placed in the 428 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On the Action exerted by certain list between aluminium and lead .
That certain alloys should act in the same way as the metals is certainly of interest , and probably of considerable importance .
The oxide and sulphate , both of zinc and cadmium , were found to be devoid of any power of acting on the photographic plate .
Iron , gold , and platinum , are not active , and copper only very slightly .
All the above results are founded on experiments in which the exposure lasted for one week ; with longer exposure other metals will probably produce some action .
In order to determine whether moisture was an active agent either directly by affecting the medium or indirectly by affecting the photographic plate , experiments were made by exposing the plates under bell-jars , in which in one case there was water , and in the other sulphuric acid or calcium chloride , and even in these extreme cases no appreciable difference was found to occur , and even if the membrane was purposely damped it did not appear to aid the action except by bringing it closer to the metal , so that acpieous vapour is not apparently an active agent in producing these reactions .
In an atmosphere of hydrogen the action taxces place as it does m an .
Carbon dioxide , under ordinary conditions , does produce an effect , but this probably arises from its action on the zinc plate .
Alteration of temperature produces very marked effects ; increase the temperature , and the action of the zinc is greatly increased ; for instance , two similar plates , both wrapped in tinfoil and the plates separated from , the zinc by means of a caidboaid fiame .
One was placed on a water bath and exposed to a temperature of about 70 ' C. , and the other placed in a vessel of ice at 0 ' C. After five hours the one which had been exposed to the high temperature had given a black picture , while the one at the low temperature gave a picture barely visible .
A similar experiment was also made with nickel , and this gave , after heating to about 70 ' , a good dark picture , but the corresponding experiment , when the metal was kept at 0 for five hours , gave no picture at all .
Aluminium , when treated in the same way , gave at the higher temperature only a faint picture , but at the lower temperature , even after two days , no picture at all .
It has already been mentioned that this action of the metals cannot pass through even thin glass , nor can it pass through selenite , nor a layer of gum arabic , nor one of paraffin .
Glass being impervious to the action , renders it somewhat difficult to try satisfactorily the action exerted by liquids , but celluloid may be used for this purpose ; also mercury may be covered with a thin layer of water , and then its action entirely ceases .
The action of certain salts in the state has , however , been tried by soaking non-glazed paper m different solutions , drying it , and then placing it , either with or without a screen , between the zinc and the photographic plate .
These experiments have given some interesting results ; for instance , paper Metals and other Substances on a Photographic Plate .
421* ' soaked in the following solutions , alum , potassium chromate , zinc-sulphate , and quinine sulphate , renders the paper quite opaque to thenaction of the zinc .
No doubt this action of alum accounts for certain papers not allowing the action to pass through them .
Some singular developments of this subject have arisen from experiments made while-examining the metals .
A piece of polished zinc was coated with copal varnish with the object of ascertaining whether the action would take place through such a medium , and in case it did , as it was thought at the time , of demonstrating that the action could not arise from metal vapour .
The experiment was quite successful ; the photographic plate , notwithstanding the varnish , was strongly acted on .
The experiment was repeated several times , and always with the-same result ; hut the pictures seemed rather too good , darker than those given by the zinc alone , and on trying the copal on plain glass instead of on zinc it proved that effects apparently similar to those-obtained with zinc were produced .
What is known as picture copal* answers very well for these experiments .
That prepared by Wimsor \amp ; Newton has been used .
This is painted or poured on a clean , warm glass plate , and allowed to harden completely .
The plate can then be used in the same way as the zinc plates .
If a photographic plate be laid on the hardened varnish for two to seven days , a picture of the varnish , showing the streaks it happens to have dried , in , is produced .
If screens be interposed so as to prevent contact between the copal and the plate , the action still occurs , and , in fact , readily passes down a tube 1 inch long .
Therefore , as with the zinc , any figure cut out in an inactive screen is readily produced on the photographic plate .
Substances which are transparent or opaque to the action of the metals seem to act in the same way towards copal .
It is rather more active than zinc .
Glass is perfectly impervious to ?
, its action , but celluloid , gutta-percha tissue , and gelatine it permeates more readily than zinc does .
The activity of the copal varies considerably under different conditions .
If the powdered gum be sprinkled on a glass plate and then fused , it is not so active as when picture varnish is used .
If the solid gum be dissolved in pure alcohol and ether , and applied to a glass plate as before described , it is far more active than after fusion .
Heating it in a water bath for a considerable length of time certainly deprives it of a considerable-amount of its activitjr ; but this can be revived by wetting it with ether and allowing it again to dry at ordinary temperatures .
As-with zinc , increase of temperature increases its activity to a great extent .
Experiments similar to those with zinc were made with copal .
A coated glass was exposed to a heat of about 70 ' , and a-similar one was kept at 0 ' .
This one after fi ve hours gave only a faint picture , whereas the heated one gave a dark picture , and a con- 430 Dr. W. J. -Russell .
On the Action exerted by certain siderable amount of action took place even through the cardboard screen .
Many other bodies of the same nature as copal act in the same way .
This has been proved to be the case with Damar and with Canada balsam , but copal seems to be the best representative of the class .
Certain gums , such as gum arabic , gum Senegal , have not the property of acting in this way .
There are , however , a large number of bodies which have the power of acting in a manner similar to the copal ; one of these is wood , and it possesses a very considerable amount of activity .
Any ordinary smooth piece of wood laid on a photographic plate will act like zinc in impressing its picture on the plate .
A section of a young larch tree gave a good picture showing clearly the different rings and the layer of bark , which was the darkest part of the picture .
The same section , when a film of gelatine was interposed between it and the plate , still gave a good pictui'e .
Wood which is thoroughly dried and hardened is also able to act in the same way .
A piece of mahogany 3'5 mm. thick , which had been in this form for at least thirty-five years and been carefully preserved in a dark cupboard , gave after a week 's exposure a good picture , and the bottom of an old cigar-box acted equally well .
Bodies such as straw , hay , bamboo , oiled silk , and , no doubt , many others , act in the same way .
If wood , however , be painted with melted paraffin , it is no longer active .
Ordinary charcoal also depicts itself on a photographic plate , but if it be heated for some hours in a covered crucible it loses this property .
An ordinary piece of wood , if it be charred on one side by heating it with a Bunsen lamp , becomes remarkably active , as shown by placing it behind a screen with a pattern cut out .
The action passes readily through different media , such as gelatine , tracing paper , \amp ; c. , vegetable parchment , \amp ; c. , and the structure of the charcoal is shown , when the action has taken place , even through a sheet of vegetable parchment .
Coal and coke , sulphur , sugar , on the other hand , exert no action of this kind .
When trying whether a copy of a lithographic picture could be obtained by placiug behind it a plate of zinc , some curious results occurred .
It would seem that printer 's ink in most cases is not capable of acting , like copal , on a photographic plate , but that there are many cases in which it is a remarkably active substance .
Specially so is the ink used in printing many of the newspapers .
The ' Westminster Gazette , ' for instance , is printed with an ink which very readily acts on a photographic plate .
A portion of this paper with printing on only one side , laid with the blank side on the photographic plate , in a few days gives a remarkably black and distinct picture .
If there be printing on both sides , then two pictures are obtained , the darker printing Metals and other Substances on a Photographic Plate .
431 becoming most evident on whichever side it may be .
Interpose a sheet , for instance , of golci-boater s skin , and still the pictuie is obtained .
The ' Standard ' and ' Daily Graphic ' are also very active , and the ' Times ' only a little less so .
The ' Evening News ' is only slightly active , and the ' Morning Post , ' ' Pall Mall , ' ' Echo , ' and ' Daily News ' have not the property of acting in this way ; at least , those copies experimented with had not .
An admission ticket to the Society of Arts laid on a photographic plate , the ink away from the plate , also gave a very distinct picture .
Another singular case of an action of this kind was met with when experimenting with the uranium salts .
Not having a sufficient number of small , clear glass bottles for a certain set of experiments , one of the compounds , the black oxide , was placed in a pill-box , believing that the action of the uranium would take place through the bottom of the box , and on developing the plate a dark circular space where it had stood was visible .
The experiment was , therefore , considered very satisfactory , and , with different salts and for different objects , it was several times repeated .
Ultimately it seemed evident that the uranium salts acted more strongly when in pill-boxes than in any other way , and on placing a pill-box without any uranium salt in it on a photographic plate it was found that action had occurred , as shown by the dark circular space produced .
The experiment was repeated over and over again , with the result that most pill-boxes have the power of acting on a photographic plate .
Both new and old pill-boxes from different sources were experimented with , and almost all of them found to be active .
There are , however , exceptions , and these , it was noticed , were always the more expensive and elaborate boxes .
On examining the structure of a pill-box it was found that it is usually made of what is known as strawboard , covered with a thin white paper ; on separately testing these two materials it was apparent that the white paper was without action on the plate , and that the strawboard was very active and produced exactly similar effects to those produced by the active pill-boxes .
The inactive ones proved to be made of white cardboard , which is not an active substance .
Samples of strawboard from several different sources have been tried , and all found to be active , and when separated from the photographic plate by means of screens , like the copal and the zinc , it gives a clear action .
Different substances of a like nature have been tried , such as brown papers , \amp ; c. Some of them are more or less active , but none more so than common strawboard .
Mr. Bevan was good enough to examine a piece of this active strawboard , but was unable to find any material other than straw present .
Writing paper and , as mentioned before , white cardboard have not this power of acting on a photographic plate , but many kinds of brown paper 432 Action of certain Metals , fc .
, on a Photographic Plate .
and no doubt many other* bodies have the property .
Many of the boxes in which photographic plates are packed are made of straw-board , but as the action does not pass through glass , the plates are but little or not at all acted on ; but if a plate be laid face upwards in one of these boxes and left there for a vreek it will be very appreciably affected .
If a small piece of glass be laid on the plate , it protects the film beneath , and shows clearly the amount of action which has occurred .
If a box of this kind be painted inside with melted paraffin , this action does not take place .
It happened that a few months before making the above experiments others were in progress in which black net was placed on a photographic plate simply to show clearly whether the plate had been acted on , and continually a reversed picture was obtained ; this at the time could not be accounted for , but now the experiment was made of simply placing the black net on the photographic plate and leaving it there for some days ; then on development a clear picture of the net was produced .
The action is due to some material in the black dye , for white net does not act in the same way .
The action of the vapour from a fewr liquids on a sensitive plate has been tried .
The plate was placed about half an inch above the liquid , and a screen , with holes cut in it , wras fastened against the plate .
Methylated spirit acted slightly on the plate ; pure alcohol and ether had no action ; benzene , coal-tar , crude wood spirit , linseed oil also , had no action , but turpentine and oil of cloves produced a slight amount of action .
Such , in outline , is an account of the experiments which have already been made on this subject .
One point has led on to another , and some of the results were so unexpected that the experiments had to be repeated many times before full credence could be given to them .
On the present occasion it is desired to do little more than record facts ; further experiments , it is hoped , may lead to explanations not now evident .
The supposition that all these active substances , the metals as well as organic bodies , give off a vapour capable of acting on a photographic plate , naturally suggests itself , and that copal does give off a vapour which directly or indirectly is active there can be no doubt .
At the same time , it is at least difficult to suppose that the activity of such a body as strawboard should , after the treatment it has undergone , give off at ordinary temperatures sufficient vapour to produce the effects described , and the same applies to old dry wood , \amp ; c. Still more interest attaches to the action of the metals ; do they emit a vapour so delicate in constitution and in such a quantity that it can readily permeate celluloid gelatine , \amp ; c. , and produce a picture of the surface from whence it came , or is it a form of energy fpossibly what has been called dark light ) that these bodies emit ?
Zinc kept and polished in the dark Behaviour of Hand K Lines of Spectrum of Calcium .
433 loses none of its activity .
An experiment has been made with the object of reflecting the zinc action from glass .
This did not succeed ; whether this arose from the glass not being capable of effecting such a reflection , or whether a fortnight was not sufficient time to pioduce in this way a visible effect , is not known , but the experiment is being repeated .
A photographic plate , suspended film upwards over a copal plate , wms acted on round the edges in the way one would imagine a vapour to act .
A similar experiment is being made o^ ei a zinc plate .
The action of glass proves that there is at least a marked difference between the action exerted by metallic uranium and that by zinc and other metals .
It should be stated that it is only the most sensitive photographic plates which , without extremely long exposures , give the results described .
The Mawson plate has generally been used m the foregoing experiments , but the Ilford special rapid plate acts equally well , and Edwards ' isochromatic snap-shot plates are particular l\ sensitive to the action of the uranium salts .
Lumiere 's extra rapid are not so sensitive as the Mawson and Ilford plates , and still less sensitive are the same firm 's plates for yellow and green , and for red and yellow .
Other sensitive plates have not been experimented with .
On the Relative Behaviour of the H and K lines of the Spectrum of Calcium .
' By " William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.B.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received May 27-Read June 17 , 1897 .
[ Plate 4 .
] The remarkable relative behaviour of the lines in the spectra of certain substances as they appear at and near the sun 's limb , and in the atmospheres of stars of different classes , has long been before our minds as a problem of great interest , which there is reason to believe is capable of solution by the methods of the laboratory , and .on which we have worked from time to time for many years .
Without waiting for the results of other researches which are in progress , we think that it is desirable to put on record some definite results on the behaviour of the lines of calcium , which appear to us to be conclusive , and of great importance in forming a correct interpretation of many solar and stellar phenomena .
As early as 1872 , Professor Young from a few weeks ' work at Sherman on the spectra of the chromosphere and of the prominences , was able to point out that " the selection of lines seems most capricious ; one is taken and another is left , though belonging to the same element , of equal intensity , and close beside the first .
" Especially he noticed that while the H and K lines of calcium are almost always

