40 Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , This commonalty furnishes a strong argument in favour of the ; suggestion that the aurora line is the remnant of the manganese , fluting , for it is practically certain that the fluting seen in the spectra of meteor-swarms is due to manganese .
Further , in the aurora the line which I have ascribed to the manganese fluting is associated with other lines and flutings , and it is also associated with the same lines and flutings in the spectra of meteor-swarms .
These again , it is important to note , are exactly the lines and flutings which are brightest in the spectra of meteorites in the laboratory at the temperature at which the manganese fluting is best visible .
These shortly are the reasons why I suggested that further enquiry was necessary on this point , and the importance of Dr. Huggins 's observation is therefore very great .
] IY .
" The Accurate Determination of Carbonic Acid and Moisture in Air .
" By J. S. Haldane , M.A. , M.B. , and M. S. Pembrey , Pell Exhibitioner of Christ Church , Oxford .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford .
) Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1889 .
V. " On the Spectrum , Visible and Photographic , of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received April 11 , 1889 .
[ Plate 1 .
] I have added the name of Mrs. Huggins to the title of the paper , because she has not only assisted generally in the work , but has repeated independently the delicate observations made by eye .
In the year 1882 I had the honour to lay before the Royal Society a note on the photographic spectrum of this nebula , in which I described a new bright line in the ultra-violet , to which I gave a wave-length of about 3730 .
In addition to this new line , the lines of hydrogen , H/ 3 and Hy , which I had discovered by eye in my early observations on the visible spectrum , were to be seen upon the plate .
On account of the faintness of the object the slit had been made rather wide , and for this reason the character of the line and its position , as I stated in the paper , could not be ascertained with the accuracy which I desired .
On the 5th February , 1888 , a photograph of the spectrum of this

