Researches on the oxymuriatic Acid , its Nature and Combinations ; and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid .
With some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus , made in the Laboratory of the RoyalInstitution * .
By H. Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I. F.R.S.E. Read July 12 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 231 .
] The tendency of the author in the present investigation , is to return to the opinion respecting the relation of muriatic acid and oxymuriatic acids to each other , which was originally entertained by Scheele .
According to that most illustrious chemist , the oxymuriatic was the more simple body , and by union with phlogiston became muriatic acid .
But from many experiments made soon after by Berthollet , it was inferred that the latter was simple , and by union with oxygen became converted into oxymuriatic acid .
In Mr. Davy 's former attempts to obtain the base of muriatic acid by potassium , he has not been able to separate anything from it but hydrogen .
In Dr. Henry 's endeavours by electricity to decompose the muriatic acid , hydrogen and oxymuriatic acid were evolved ; and conversely , Mr. Davy has in no instance been able to separate oxygen from oxymuriatic acid , or even to separate muriatic acid from dry muriates , without the assistance of hydrogen or water .
He has hence been led to doubt the existence of oxygen in the substance called oxymuriatic acid , and has applied the most powerful means of abstracting oxygen from it without success ; and indeed Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard , in their elaborate and interesting experiments , published in the Memoires d'Arcueil , although they maintain that muriatic acid gas consists of muriatic acid and water , are not able to separate water from it , but only hydrogen ; and themselves acknowledge that oxymuriatic acid , which they suppose to consist of muriatic acid and oxygen , cannot be decomposed by any known means .
The most extraordinary fact noticed by Mr. Davy is , that when charcoal is ignited to whiteness by the voltaic battery in oxymuriatic acid gas , no change whatever is produced , provided that the charcoal has been previously freed from moisture or from hydrogen by intenseheat .
The vivid combustion of many bodies in this gas has favoured the presumption that it contained oxygen very loosely combined and ready to exert its utmost power of affinity : but it is mere presumption ; since heat and light result also from the intense agency of any other combination , without the presence of oxygen .
The resemblance of oxymuriatic acid combined with metals to other neutral salts , may be considered a strong argument in favour of the presence of oxygen in that acid : but Mr. Davy observes , that an opposite doctrine may be equally maintained ; since the metals may consist of bases united with hydrogen , which , by combining with oxymuriatic acid , converts it into muriatic acid .
A corresponding doubt occurs also respecting the nature of hyperoxygenized muriatic acid .
Does the oxymuriatic acid combine with oxygen as well as with hydrogen ?
and does it , with the former , produce hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ?
or is the hyperoxygenized acid the base of this class ?
and does this unite with different proportions of hydrogen ?
In order to answer these questions , Mr. Davy has endeavoured to obtain the neutralizing acid in hyperoxygenized muriate of potash , by distillation with dry boracic acid ; but in this case , oxygen is the chief gaseous product , and there remains common muriate of potash , not decomposable by any dry process .
Other attempts were also made to solve the same problem , by attending to the phenomena which occur in the decomposition of various compounds by the agency of voltaic electricity .
The fact most favourable to the existence of hydrogen in oxymuriatic acid takes place during the electrization of oxymuriate of tin .
Hydrogen , which in this case is extricated , must be produced either by the metal or by the oxymuriatic acid .
No substance , says Mr. Davy , has less claims to be considered an acid than oxymuriatic acid ; and he considers it a body sui generis , that has a tendency to combine with pure inflammable matters , forming what are called the dry muriates .
Of this class are the common metallic muriates , the muriates of potash , of soda , lime , strontites , and barytes .
But there are other bases which in their state of oxide unite with muriatic acid gas , and retain the water which is formed in their composition .
Such are , the muriates of ammonia , of magnesia , of zircon , alumina , and yttria .
Although the modern chemical nomenclature accords extremely ill with these views of the composition of the several forms of muriatic acid , and of muriatic salts , the author does not venture to propose any alterations in their names until their real nature shall be more fully known .
Among the various compounds of oxymuriatic acid with combustible substances , there is one which the author has examined with peculiar care , and with very singular results .
He has on a former occasion examined the action of oxymuriatic acid upon phosphorus , and has described two compounds , the one fluid , the other solid ; the first of which , according to the generally-received theory , should consist of muriatic acid and phosphorous acid ; and the second of muriatic acid and phosphoric acid .
If such were really the case , he imagined it would not be difficult to obtain the phosphoric acid as proof of the presence of oxygen ; and he accordingly saturated the compound with pure ammoniacal gas , expecting to obtain muriate of ammonia , and phosphate of ammonia , which , by being heated , would leave the phosphoric acid in a pure state .
The triple compound formed was , on the contrary , a dry powder , not fusible by a red heat , nor yielding any gaseous matter when heated , and not decomposable by mere heat .
It had no taste , no smell ; it did not seem to be soluble in boiling water , nor even in muriatic , nitric , or sulphuric acid ; neither did strong lixivium of caustic potash appear to produce the least effect ; and the only processes by which it appeared to be affected were combustion , or the action of fused potash .
In the latter case it emitted a smell of ammonia ; it appeared to dissolve in the potash , which then gave indication of the acids , that had entered into the composition of this singularly intractable substance .
Amongst the known combustibles , it is observed that charcoal is the only one which does not combine directly with oxymuriatic acid gas ; but Mr. Davy is of opinion that it does in some cases unite by the medium of hydrogen , as in the state of olefiant gas , and in the formation of muriatic ether .
The author expresses a hope that new and more correct views of the composition of muriatic salts will facilitate their decomposition , and explain , in a satisfactory manner , various economical processes , long since practised , for obtaining the acid from common salt by means of aluminous or siliceous substances , the success of which has in general depended on the accidental presence of moisture .
In this case the alkali forms a glass , and is rendered useless ; but by the substitution of iron filings , and passing steam over the mixture when heated , Mr. Davy has succeeded in separating a portion of soda from common salt .

