XI .
On a native Arseniate of Lead .
By the Rev. William Gregor .
Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F. R. S , Read April 13 , 1809 .
I. HATr the oxide of lead and the arsenic acid , might be found in the state of natural combination , is a supposition highly probable , from the strong affinity which subsists between these two substances .
But the existence of such a compound has not , as I conceive , hitllerto been established by such proofs , as entitle it to be ranked amongst the decided cases of mineralogical science .
I trust , therefore , that the observations , which I have the honour of submitting to the Society , on a new * ore of lead lately discovered in the county of Cornwall , so justly celebrated as well for the variety as for the richness of its mineral productions , will not be deemed superfluous .
This mnineral was raised in the mine called Huel-Unity , a very rich copper mine , in the parish of Gwennap , According to the information with which I have been favoured by Mr. WILLIAMJA DkVEY , a very intelligent and experienced miner in that district , it was found in a lode south of I-uel-Unity principal lode , at the depth of fifty fathoms below the surface , which lode underlay about two feet in the fathom south : at the depth abovementioned ; this lode fell in , or formed a junction with another small lode or vein to the south , and when the junction took place , this lead ore was found .
The veins of it are , in general , from six to ten ilches wide , and they diverge on going west .
Some particles of this lead ore have been found in the southern part , after the separation of the lodes ; but the northern lode does not contain any , until the junction takes place .
This ore is intermixed-with some native copper , very rich gray copper , and black copper ore , and some is mixed with quartz .
The .
walls of both veins are killas .
II .
Description .
This mineral is regularly crystallized .
The form of its most perfect crystals is an hexaedral prism ; they are of different sizes , from one tenth of an inch in diameter , to the size of a hair .
The longest which I have seen , do not exceed three tenths of an inch in length : these terminate in a plane , at right angles , with the axis of the prism ; but the crystals of a smaller size are frequently drawn out into a very taper acumination , which appears to be a six-sided pyramid .
A number of smaller crystals are often closely packed together in bundles , which are bent in different directions , and terminate in a point .
The larger crystals , either stand alone , or adhere , on their lateral planes , to the gangue , or are confusedly matted together in a mass .
Some of them are hollow , as if an internal nucleus had been destroyed : and sometimes this internal nucleus overtops the external lamine .
The gangue is a white quartz , which fre196 quently exhibits on its surface the appearance of a partial decomposition .
The red octaedral copper ore , and the co)ppe ; r into which that ore passes , are often intermingled with the crystals of this lead ore and inbedded in them .
The colour of these crystals consists of a variety of tints of yellow .
Some are of a beautiful wine yeiow resembling the Brazilian topaz this , in the greater number of specim ; ens , passes into a delicate Isabella-colour : whilst , in other cases , we have the honey-yellow mingled with brown hues of different intensities : so that we meet with crystals resembling dark brown sugar-candy , or common resin .
Some of the crystals are beautifully transparent , wiilst others possess this quality in part only , at their extremities , or in inferior degrees throughout their whole lengths .
The external lustre in some specimens , is vitreous ; in others , resinous : but in some instances their surface is partially covered by tender and delicate filaments of a silky lustre .
These filaments are sometimes found in a separate state loosely adhering to quartz ; and they form a variety of this fossil .
The crystals vary as to hardness , The angular fragments of the most transparent are sufficiently hard to scratch glass .
This mineral is easily reduced to powder , which has the appearance of pounded resin ; it contracts a yellower tint by long exposure to the air .
The specific gravity of the purest crystals , taken at the temp. 50 ?
FAHRENHET , was 6.41 .
II .
A fragment of crystal exposed to the flame of the blowpipe in a gold spoon , melted into a brownish yellow mass , which on cooling did not assume any angular figure .
It remained in a state of ignition apparently unaltered ; but when a piece of it was exposed to the flame on charcoal , a rapid decomposition took place , arsenical vapours were extricated , and globules of a metal , possessing the common properties of lead , were left behind .
This mineral , in a state of fine powder , is soluble in nitric acid , even without the aid of heat .
Care , however , must be taken , that it does not concrete into lumps .
The vessel therefore which contains it must be frequently shaken , and the nitrat of lead produced must be , from time to time , dissolved in water , and poured off from the residuum .
The process of solution is , however , accelerated by a digesting heat .
Some silica remains , which , as the quantity of it is variable according to circumstances , appears not to be an essential ingredient of this fossil .
The nitric solution is colourless ; its transparency is not disturbed by nitrat of barytes .
Nitrat of silver renders it turbid , and a small quantity of white curdly matter is deposited .
Sulphuric acid and the liquid sulphats , produce copious precipitates of a white heavy matter .
If the fluid be poured off from this subsided matter , and it be freed from the superfluous sulphuric acid , by the means of nitrat of barytes , it will yield , on the affusion of liquid nitrat of lead , an abundant white precipitate , which urged by the flame of the blow-pipe on a support of charcoal , resolves itself into reduced lead and arsenical vapours .
198 These preliminary experiments led me to the probable conclusion , that this fossil chiefly consisted of oxide of lead , arsenic acid , and a small quantity of the muriatic acid .
IV .
Analysis .
A. i. Fifty grains , carefully selected from crystals of a pale Isabella-colour , were reduced to a fine powder and exposed to a low red heat for about an hour .
Their weight was dinminished by o.15 of a grain .
, .
The yellowish powder was now transferred to a vessel of pure silver , and mixed with a lixivium containing fifty grains of potash , prepared by the means of alcohol ; a quantity , which I had previously ascertained to be sufficient to effect a complete decomposition of this mineral .
The ley was gradually evaporated to dryness in a sand-bath .
The soluble part was extracted by distilled water , and poured off from a yellowish white matter , which was sufficiently edulcorated ( a ) .
3 .
Liquid nitrat of ammonia was now dropped into the alkaline fluid , as long as it produced any cloudiness : the clear fluid was now decanted from a small quantity of white matter , which had subsided , and rendered acid by nitric acid ; ammonia , added to excess , produced a slight turbidness .
These precipitates , after sufficient edulcoration , were added to the yellowish white residuum ( a ) .
4 .
The liquid was now rendered slightly acid by nitric acid , and a solution of nitrat* of lead in distilled water was dropped into it , as long as it separated any precipitate .
The clear fluid was poured off , and evaporated nearly to dryness , and a small quantity of white matter , thus obtained , was added to the former precipitate , which dried , and exposed to a low red heat weighed , whilst still warm , 40,8 , which , according to the proportion of 33 : loo , established by Mr. CHENEVIX , implies 13,46 of arsenic acid .
5 .
The superfluous lead was now separated from the fluid by sulphat of soda , and filtered off .
Ammonia precipitated a minute portion of flaky matter ; it weighed , after ignition , o.2 of a grain ; it consisted of silica and oxide of lead , and must be attributed to the nitrat of lead employed .
B. i. The yellowish white residuum ( a ) ( A , ? ?
2 .
) was dissolved without effervescence in nitric acid , except a minute portion of silica , which , after ignition , = o,28 .
A white heavy matter was thrown down from this solution , by liquid sulphat of soda .
The clear decanted fluid was evaporated to a small volume , and sulphat of soda produced a further separation of white matter ; It was sulphat of lead , which after exposure to a low red heat , and weighed , whilst warm , = 47.5 , which , upon the supposition that one hundred parts of sulphat of lead contain 69.74 of lead + 3.48 of oxygen , is equivalent to 34.77 of oxide of lead .
2 .
The fluid , now freed from lead , deposited , on the affution of an arseniat of lead is produced ; but crystalline grains are , after a time , gradually deposited at the bottom of the vessel .
But liquid nitrat of lead causes an immediate and abundant precipitate from these same dilute solutions .
These two combinations therefore must be different , 2OO sion of ammonia , a greenish matter , which , after ignition , became red , and = o.00 of a grain .
It was oxide of iron .
C. i. One hundred grains of larger crystals , some of which were hollow , and the surfaces of which were slightly and partially covered with silky filaments , treated in the same way yielded 95.e83 of sulphat of lead equivalent to 69.76 of oxide , and 8c of arseniat of lead , which indicates 26,4o of arsenic acid .
The oxide of iron , in this case , amounted to only.05 of a grain , and the residuary silica was in too small a quantity to be weighed .
2 .
I have endeavoured to decompose this fossil by boiling it to dryness in a solution of four times its weight of the purest subcarbonat of potash , and exposing the dry mass , for a very short time , to a low red heat ; but I found , that only a part of the arsenic acid had united to the alkali ; the larger portion of it was detected in the nitric solution of the residuum ; but the relative proportions of the oxide and the acid , were found to correspond almost exactly with the foregoing statement of them .
3 .
I found also , that carbonat of ammonia precipitated thismineral , in an unaltered state , from its solution in nitric acid : as no arsenic acid had united with the precipitant , The solution of the nitrat of ammonia was evaporated to dryness , and exposed to a red heat in a platina crucible ; but nothing was left , except a slight trace of oxide of lead .
We may infer from hence , the absence of both the fixed alkalies .
4 .
I found in one specimen only of this fossil any notable difference in the relative proportiois of the oxide of lead and 201 of the acid , to which it is united .
It consisted orf crystals con .
fusedly matted together in a more compact mass , than this fossil generally assumes .
One hundred grains were dissolved in nitric acid ; the marine acid was separated by nitrat of silver , and any redundant silver by muriat of ammonia .
The lead was separated by sulphuric acid , and the superfluous portion of that acid by nitrat of barytes , and the arsenic acid was combined with the oxide of lead by the atlusion of nitrat of lead .
The muriat of silver = 9,8 ; the sulphat of lead = 97.6 , and the arseniat of lead = 72 , equivalent to 1.63 of muriatic acid , 71,46 of oxide of lead , and 2.c388 of arsenic acid , respectively .
The quartz O= 035 , and the oxide of iron.o . ?
, nearly , Another portion taken from the same specimen treated with an alkali , gave very nearly a similar result .
D. It will now be necessary for me to speak concerning an ingredient of this fossil , which I may have seemed to overlook .
I mean the muriatic acid : I have found some difficulty in ascertaining the proportion which it bears to the other constituent parts , and from a cause , which I did not suspect .
I considered that the only sure mode of determining this point , was to have recourse to nitrat of silver , which might efie:c a direct separation of the marine acid from the nitric soituli)ti of this fossil .
But I found , in many experiments upon given quantities of this mineral , that the results , which I derived from this most valuable chemical test , were variable and uncertain .
At last , I was enabled to trace the error and uncertainty up to two sources .
In the first place , I found that the muriat of silver was more abundant in the cases , where I employed a vessel with a long neck for the solution , and did not expose it to heat .
I concluded therefore , that when the process was conducted under different circumstances , the predominating mass of nitric acid produced its effect , and volatilized a portion of the muriatic .
Another source of error I found in the following anomalous circumstance , viz. a simultaneous precipitation of a portion of arseniat of lead takes place with that of the muriat of silver .
Whatever combination this may be , it is a weak one , and may be severed by nitric acid , which dissolves the arseniat and leaves the muriat ; or by ammonia , which takes up the muriat , to the exclusion of the arseniat .
The conclusion , to which many experiments have led me , is this , that the muriat of silver produced in the nitric solution of one hundred grains of arseniat of lead by nitrat of silver , amounts to about 9.5 .
E. In order to prove that the acid , which is combined with the oxide of lead in this mineral , is the arsenic acid , and that it is not combined with phosphoric , I decomposed some of its acid , which had been combined with lead in the foregoing experiments , by means of sulphuric acid , and filtered off the sulphat of lead .
The fluid which passed through the filter was evaporated nearly to dryness , and it assumed the appearance of crystalline grains .
Some of it was exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe in a gold spoon ; at first it became like a white dry powder , which melted before an increased heat : placed 20o3 on charcoal and ignited , it was totally dissi-lat'i:d in arsenical fumes .
Some of it was dissolved in water , and dropped into liquid sulphat of titanium , a white precipitate was produced : comb'ned with soda , it precipitated silver from the nitrat of silver , of a brick colour .
It precipitated mercury from its nitrat , of a yellowish colour , which afterwards became reddish .
This precipitate exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe on charcoal , exhibited the same phenomena as arseniat of mercury .
I precipitated magnesia from its muriat , and redissolved it by carbonat of ammonia , perfectly saturated with carbonic acid .
I divided this liquid into two portions , and dropped into both a solution of the combination of the acid of this mineral and soda .
No precipitate was produced .
I dropped into one of the vessels some liquid phosphat of soda , and a separation of saline matter was instantly produced .
I soon , however , found , that this mode of distinguishing the phosphoric from the arsenic acid could not be depended upon .
For in the other vessel , in which no phosphat of soda had been dropped , in a short time , saline tufts made their appearance , and an abundant deposition of saline matter was formed .
I found also , that if the solution had been more concentrated , the precipitation would have immediately taken place .
On making a comparative experiment with arsenic acid , I found that it forms a triple salt with ammonia , and magnesia , analogous to the phosphoric salt described by Dr. WOLLASTON .
The figure of the arsenical salt , as far as I could determine it from a confused crystallization , is a -riedral prism .
We are therefore , I think , authorized from the experiments herein detailed , to conclude , thatthee , fossil which is the subject 'o204 of this paper , is an arseniat of lead , and that if we state that:he relative proportion , of the constituent parts of it are in one hunldred , as follows , we shall not be far from the truth : Oxide of lead 6976 Arsenic acid 26,40 Muriatic acid.58 The silica and the oxide of iron , which account for a portion of the loss , and the alumina and copper which are sometimes found in an analysis of this fossil , I do not conceive to be essential to it .
The existence of a minute portion of muriatic acid as a constant ingredient of it , is a curious fact : and it is still more curious , when we consider it in connexion with the analogy , that in this particular it maintains with the natural phosphats of leIad .
Creed , March I , 1809 .

