Action of Wood on Photographic Plate in the Dark .
131 argon made from Bath gas gave , when the argon was absorbed in charcoal , a gas residuum giving the helium and neon spectrum , and the same result follows the use of atmospheric argon .
In the case , however , of the Bath gas argon the helium spectrum is the stronger , whereas with air argon the neon is the most pronounced .
In order to further test the method , the crude gases got by heating the mineral Fergusonite were examined .
During the cooling of the charcoal the nitrogen and hydrogen spectra were marked , but in a short time nothing could be seen but the lines of hydrogen and helium .
Great interest will attach to the behaviour of helium , hydrogen and the most volatile part of air , when subjected to the action of charcoal cooled to the temperature of liquid hydrogen .
The method promises to open up many avenues for future inquiry .
I am indebted to Mr. Robert Lennox , F.C.S. , for efficient assistance in the conduct of the experiments , and Mr. J. W. Heath , F.C.S. , has also helped me in the investigation .
" On the Action of Wood on a Photographic Plate in the Dark .
" By W illiam J. Russell , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 28.\#151 ; Read June 16 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) [ Piatb 7 .
] It has been shown in former papers that many substances are capable of acting on a photographic plate in the dark and producing a picture of themselves .
Further investigation shows that this property belongs probably to all woods , some , however , being much more active than others .
To obtain a picture the wood has to be in contact or at a little distance above the photographic plate , and has to remain there for times varying from ^ an hour to 18 hours , and to be at a temperature not higher than 55 ' C. The wood of the conifers is very active , and gives pictures which are very definite .
Fig. 1 is a picture of a section of a branch of a gScotch fir , and shows well the rings of spring and autumn growth .
It is remarkable that the former are very active , producing in this picture the dark rings , and so with the other pictures , the part which is active in the original is dark in the picture .
The rings seen in the wood are very sharp and strongly pronounced in the picture .
If the action exerted on the plate be owing to the presence of hydrogen peroxide , as has been previously suggested , no doubt it is produced VOL. LXX1V .
L 132 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On the Action by the resinous bodies present in the wood , but it is remarkable that there is no action from the dark autumn wood .
Experiments described in the full paper show that resin exists in the dark rings , but apparently under such conditions that it cannot escape .
Other members of the pine group have been experimented with and have been found to behave in the same way as the Scotch fir .
With the spruces the action on the plate is not so definite and well marked ; the white wood is always active , but in some cases the dark rings are also active , and the pictures are not so sharp as with the firs .
Larch wood gives a very interesting result , for the picture is Fig. 1 .
the reverse of that of the Scotch fir , that is , the dark rings in the wood are the active rings and the light rings are inactive .
With regard to woods other than conifers , oak and beech are both active and give very good pictures , so also does acacia ( ) , Spanish chestnut , and sycamore ; on the other hand , ash , elm , horse chestnut , plane are comparatively but slightly active .
In the full paper lists of woods are arranged according to their activity .
Many foreign woods are very active , but as the annual rings are often not well developed , the pictures they give are of a somewhat different character .
The African black wood , rose wood , cocobola , and many others are very active .
Several of the foreign woods have a ring of white wood which is quite inactive .
Knots in a wood generally , but not always , give a good picture , i on a Photographic 11904 .
] Plate in the Dark .
133 feoine of the resin in immediate contact with the knot is in some cases Ibut little active .
The marked difference in properties of resins from ^different sources is described , and it is shown how difficult it is to Iremove it , so that the wood shall be no longer active .
Boards that have been exposed to the air for a long time , an oak box a hundred or I more years old , rotten wood from the stump of a tree , and even bog wood have all been found to be still active .
In addition to woods many different resins and allied bodies can , when used alone.be proved to be very active , some naturally much more so than others .
Ordinary resins , Burgundy pitch , gum mastic , are very active , asphaltum , dragons blood much less so , but true gums such as gum Senegal and gum arabic are entirely without action on a photographic plate .
In certain cases the picture obtained on the plate does not resemble the markings which are visible on the wood .
With some woods this more commonly occurs than with others .
That this picture is persistent in the wood is shown by fresh sections giving the same result .
The true bark of a wood is apparently quite without action on a photographic plate , so is the internal pith of a plant .
There is another and a very interesting action , which occurs with wood , it is the great increase of activity which it exerts on a photographic plate after it has been exposed to a strong light .
For instance , if a piece of deal be half covered by black paper or tin foil and be exposed ] for 5\#151 ; 10 minutes to bright sunlight , and then put up in the usual way with a photographic plate , it will give a dark picture where the light has fallen on the wood and only a very faint picture of the part which has been covered.- This is shown in Plate 7 , fig. 1 .
Even comparatively inactive woods such as elm and ivy after a short exposure to bright light give good and dark pictures .
The action is not an indiscriminate darkening over the whole wood section , but ' an intensifying of the parts already active .
This increase of activity by the action of light appears to occur with all woods .
Artificial light , such as that from the electric arc , or from burning magnesium ribbon , act in the same way , so does even a faint light .
A piece of wood put at a window for some hours will give a darker picture than a similar piece left in the middle of the room .
This increase of power of a wood to produce a picture does not rapidly pass away .
After 24 hours the action is visibly less , and decreases more rapidly at first than after some days , but it will be a fortnight or may be a month before the wood resumes its former condition .
This action , like the former one , is entirely stopped by interposing the I thinnest piece of glass or mica between the photographic plate and l the active body .
An inactive card painted with an alcoholic solution t of resin , acts in the same way , and turpentine which has been exposed | to a bright light acts more strongly on a photographic plate than it 134 Action o f Wood on Photographic Plate in the Dark .
does when it has not been so exposed .
Again , old printing which is , now nearly inactive becomes much more active after exposure to sum light .
Bodies other than those which may contain resin or allied substances are not affected in this way by light , for instance , flour sugar , porcelain ; metals are not rendered active by sunlight .
The next point was to ascertain which of the constituents of light was most active in producing these effects , and the first experiments were made by simply placing strips of different coloured glass on wood sections , exposing them to sunlight and afterwards putting them up with the photographic plate in the usual way .
Pictures of the results are given in the paper .
Red glass entirely prevented any increase in the activity of the wood , in fact , it acted in the same way as a band of black paper or tin foil would act , and a green glass acted much in the same way , but under a blue glass the activity of the wood was increased to much the same extent as under colourless glass or under no glass .
Plate 7 , fig. 2 , shows what happens when a red glass and a white glass are placed upon it and exposed to sunlight .
On the right of the figure there was no. glass .
Further experiments were made by placing similar pieces of deal in light which had passed through different coloured solutions .
Three double-cased bell jars were taken , one was charged with a solution of potassium bichromate , another with copper ammonium sulphate solution , and the third with pure water , and all were exposed to sunlight for 4 hours .
The deal in the red light gave only a faint picture , that in the blue light a dark picture , and that with the pure water was only a slightly darker picture .
Resin , guiacum , copal varnish , white oil paint and resin sized paper all acted in the same way and gave similar results . . .
The light from an arc lamp when passed through a red glass and allowed to fall on a wood section for 1^ hours produced no effect , but when the same light was passed through a blue glass and fell on a similar wood section for only 1 hour it produced a dark picture .
With liquids this same increase of activity by the action of blue light is produced .
Turpentine , which has been exposed to blue light , is more active than when in its ordinary condition .
Russell .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 74 , Plate 7 .
Fig. l. Fig. 2 .

