12 .
" On the Mutual Relations of the Vital and Physical Forces .
" By William B. Carpenter , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The purpose of the author in this communication is to show that the same kinds of " Correlation " as has been pointed out by Prof. Grove to exist among the physical forces , --light , heat , electricity , magnetism , chemical affinity , and mechanical motion , --exists also between these forces and those which operate in the development of living beings , and in the production of all their vital actions .
1 .
In some introductory remarks , the author briefly recapitulates the leading ideas which have been entertained by physiologists with respect to the relations between the physical and vital forces ; and states it to be the doctrine at present in vogue , that vital forces are the manifestations of the dormant properties of organized structures , called into activity by the physical forces which operate as stimuli .
2 .
He then examines inlto the mutual relations of the several vital forces ; and adduces facts and arguments to prove that the forces of assimilation , organization , chemico-vital transformation , and histological transformation , which are concerned in the development and maintenance of living organisms , are so many modes of one and the same vital force , whose most general operation is seen in cell-formation .
And he then goes on to show that the production of the nervous and muscular forces , and of ciliary movement , are due to the same agency .
Lastly , he points out that the nervous force , originating in one act of cell-formation , can in its turn influence other acts of the same kind , and can thus modify every other kind of vital operation .
Whence he concludes that all these vital forces are " correlated .
" 3 .
The author then investigates the relations of the vital and physical forces to each other .
Taking the nervous force as the most characteristic example of the former , he shows that it is correlated to electricity , heat , light , chemical affinity , and mechanical motion .
He then endeavours to prove that the same correlation exists between heat and the organizing forces ; so that the latter may be considered as in reality due to a transformation or conversion of heat by its passage through an organized structure ; just as heat , acting through a certain mixture of metals , manifests itself as electricity .
Hence he concludes that the physical forces are as closely correlated to the vital , as those of each category are to each other ; the chief distinction between their respective operations being established by the speciality of the instruments through which they manifest themselves .

