Photographic Recording of Atmospheric Potential .
585 or temperature of the molecule .
He considers our earlier results to range very much as is to be expected , the interchange of energy with the molecules of the platinum wall being less perfect for the lighter gas molecules than for heavier ones , and also for polyatomic than for monatomic , for the reason that intramolecular energy is less disposed to equalisation by impacts than energy of progressive motion .
It is clear that further experimental work must be done in the manner suggested before the necessary data are available .
The experiment on the conduction of hydrogen with palladium and platinum wires tells against the idea of imperfect interchange of energy , but it is by no means conclusive .
Moreover , Prof. Lartnor remarks that the recent experiments of Millikan on electrified water drops in an electric field , when interpreted by the formula of E. Cunningham , * make / 3 very small , so that , for air on water at any rate , little correction of that kind arises .
An Electrostatic Voltmeter for Photographic Recording of A t mo spheric Po P\gt ; y George W. Walker , A.R.C.Sc .
, M.A. , Superintendent of Eskdalemuir Observatory .
( Communicated by Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. Received October 11 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1910 .
) The difficulties attending continuous registration of electrical potential gradient of the atmosphere are very great ; but it is not my intention in this paper to discuss these .
My object is to call attention to the measuring part of an electrograph , and more especially to experiments made with an instrument that promises to be of considerable service in work of this kind .
A recording voltmeter ought to have a uniform scale value over the range for which it is intended to be used , it must possess a high degree of insulation , and it ought to be capable of acting efficiently for long periods without having to be taken to pieces for cleaning .
The general excellence of the Dolezalek electrometer and its high degree of mechanical symmetry suggested to me its use as a recorder , although I do not know that it has been tried before .
The instrument was designed to measure very small differences of potential * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , A , vol. 83 , p. 109 .
2 s 2 586 Mr. G. W. Walker .
Electrostatic Voltmeter for [ Oct. 11 , between the quadrants with a potential of , say , 100 volts on the needle .
The first thing to ascertain was whether , with a fixed difference due to a single Weston cell , the sensitiveness could be reduced so that the movement of the needle would record , on a suitable scale , the potential applied to it .
A trial suspension made of phosphor bronze proved successful , and a scale value of about 200 volts per centimetre was obtained on the photographic paper , which is carried on a drum 1 metre from the mirror attached to the needle Up to 500 or 600 volts the behaviour was excellent , but for higher potentials the needle began to tilt , and if a sudden change was made the needle generally discharged to the quadrants .
Experience showed that it would have frequently to carry over 1000 volts .
The needle was therefore loaded by prolonging the vertical axis to about 3 cms .
beneath the needle , and adding at the end a small brass nut of about 1|~ grm. It now carries 1100 volts with perfect safety and stability .
The loading reduced the sensitiveness , and I now use three Weston cells and obtain a scale value of about 115 volts per centimetre on the paper .
As far as I can test with a high potential Wulf electrometer , the scale value is constant to within 2 or 3 per cent , over the range of the sheet , which is about 900 volts + or \#151 ; .
It requires a little care and patience to adjust the instrument to symmetry over this large range of 1800 volts .
The present scale value is suitable for ordinary days , but in stormy weather it is too large .
We therefore require a second voltmeter working at a lower sensitiveness in order to get a complete record .
From what has been said , it is clear that a Dolezalek with one Weston cell would serve admirably .
It may be mentioned that although the instrument is not dead-beat at this sensitiveness , the needle comes to rest long before the collecting water-jet responds to change of potential , but discussion of this point is reserved for another occasion .
Meanwhile experiments in another direction have been carried on .
Some ten years ago Mr. W. G. Pye made for me an experimental voltmeter , in which I proposed to rely on the contact difference of potential between zinc and copper to give a couple on a suspended electrometer needle .
Two circular plates were made up of alternate 90 ' sectors of zinc and copper , soldered together at the junctions , and the two plates were set parallel by means of a circular copper ring , thus completing the " box quadrant " arrangement .
I was satisfied some years ago that the instrument could be adjusted to give quite reliable readings for a steady potential on the needle .
When the question of having a second recorder for high potentials arose , it occurred to me to ascertain if the zinc-copper voltmeter would do .
The old plates 1910 .
] Photographic Recording Atmospheric Potential .
58 were accordingly looked out , and , although they had been damaged and repaired some years ago , an instrument was made up in the observatory workshop , closely resembling the Dolezalek in general features , although equal mechanical accuracy was impossible in the circumstances .
When connected to the Dolezalek and collecting system , the photographic records from the two instruments were perfectly similar .
Fig. 1 is a reproduction of a specimen record .
Eskdalemuir Dolezalek Electrogram , 1910 , July 25\#151 ; 26 .
Eskdalemuir Zn-Cu Voltmeter Electrogram , 1910 , July 25\#151 ; 26 .
It proved fairly easy to adjust the new instrument to uniform scale value ( about 290 volts per centimetre ) over a range of 400 or 500 volts + or \#151 ; ; but for greater potentials I found considerable difficulty .
This arose simply from the lack of perfect mechanical symmetry in the instrument , but with patience I finally succeeded in getting practical uniformity up to 1100 volts + or \#151 ; .
I think these results , obtained with a " home-made " instrument , warrant the making of a new one , which shall equal in mechanical precision the Dolezalek electrometer , and so admit of easier adjustment .
At present the needle is not sufficiently damped for very rapid changes , but this can be overcome by using a Dolezalek needle or by electromagnetic damping .
The instrument possesses an obvious advantage for recording work , as insulation of the quadrants is unnecessary .
The only part requiring good insulation is the head for carrying the needle .
This may be done with amber , but we avoided the expense and got quite as good a result by moulding a sulphur bush .
The question of a cheap and efficient insulator is strictly beyond the scope of this paper ; but as we have obtained most satisfactory results by using sulphur , I have been advised to refer to the matter .
It is practically impossible to work sulphur in the ordinary mechanical way , and resort must be had to moulding .
For this purpose a carefully cleaned glass tube or test-tube of the required diameter is used .
Ordinary 588 Photographic Recording of Atmospheric Potential .
roll sulphur is then melted in a clean porcelain dish , and it is essential that the temperature should be just sufficient to melt the sulphur and no more .
The slightest darkening of the liquid is fatal to a good result .
The molten sulphur is run into the glass tube and allowed to set for 24 hours .
It may then be taken out , and usually the test-tube has to be sacrificed in the process .
Initially the rod insulates magnificently , but in the course of a few days it gets defective .
If , however , the glossy surface is then removed by light rubbing with fine sand-paper , the insulating power is recovered and maintained .
I cannot yet say how long this will last , but I have some pieces in use that have not been touched for over six months , and they insulate now as well as they did originally and quite as well as amber .
I have made special tests in very damp weather without finding any failure of the sulphur .
If the support has to stand any strain it may be fitted into a brass socket with a piece of .
thin paper .
Five such supports , 1-inch diameter , carry our copper tank , which is 3 feet in diameter and 6 inches deep and filled with water .
An idea of the insulation may be obtained from the fact that when electrified the tank falls to l/ \lt ; ?
of its original potential in from 50 to 60 minutes normally .
I have found that sulphur moulded directly into brass or copper tube gradually deteriorates , and on breaking the sulphur it is found to contain dark streaks of what I presume is copper sulphide .
If , however , the brass is first lined with thin paper the sulphur maintains its insulating power for \lt ; * months without any sign of deteriorating .
It is important not to touch the sulphur with fingers at all greasy .
If occasion arises to remove a spider 's thread , it is best to do so with a piece of fine sand-paper or even a piece of fine tissue paper .
Mr. Black , the observatory mechanic , has greatly assisted me in ascertaining what precautions are necessary to make sulphur a serviceable insulator in laboratory work .
[ Note added December8.\#151 ; Zinc-copper couples have been used before by Lord Kelvin and by Prof. C. V. Boys.* Sulphur insulation , with the remarkable efficiency of which this paper is concerned , has also been advocated by Mr. C. T. R. Wilson , by Dr. Threlfall , and by Prof. Le Cadet.f ] * ' Electrician , ' 1896 .
t ' Annals de l'Universit6 de Lyon , ' 1898 , vol. 35 , p. 32 .

