On the fossil Elk of Ireland .
By Thomas Weaver , Esq. Member of the Royal Irish Academy , of the Royal Dublin Society , and of the Wernerian and Geological Societies .
Read May 19 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 429 .
] Mr. Weaver 's principal object in this paper is to prove that the remains of the gigantic elk , which have been found in various parts of Ireland , are not of antediluvian origin , but that the animal lived and flourished in the countries in which its remains are now found , at a period of time which , in the history of the earth , may be considered only as modern ; and that the extinction of the species is attributable rather to the continued persecution it endured from its enemies , accelerated by incidental local causes , than to any general catastrophe that overwhelmed the surface of the globe .
The spot examined by the author containing these remains , is near the village of Dundrum , in Down : it appears formerly to have been a lake , and is now covered with peat lying upon a bed of marl .
The bones are invariably found between these two substances , and from the examination of the shells contained in the latter , it appears that they are exclusively fresh-water species .
The peat bog of Ratlcannon , in the county of Limerick , has also furnished abundance of the same bones , similarly situated .
These were examined by the Rev. Mr. Maunsell before they were displaced .
Some of them showed marks of disease and fractures , and in one case the rib was singularly perforated , as if by a sharp instrument .
Marrow , having the appearance of fresh suet , was found in the cavity of one shank .
bone , and they appeared generally to contain all the principles found in fresh bones .
These and some other concurrent circumstances seem , says the author , to remove all idea of the remains of the Irish elk being of any other than comparatively recent origin ; and in seeking for a cause of the nearly constant distribution of these remains in Ireland in swampy spots , he conjectures that the animal may have often sought the waters and the marshy land as a place of refuge from its enemies , and thus not unfrequently found a grave where it looked for protection .

