208 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
It may therefore be hoped that in the near future an understal ing will be arrived at on the importance of the development tc given to the observatory of the Azores , and I ask the Royal Soeir whose influence is so great in the domain of science , to support its concurrence , the accession of England to the ideas which Iupti for the common interest .
64 A Compensated Interference Dilatometer .
" By A. E. Tutt( Assoc. R.C.S. Communicated by Captain Abney , C.i F.R.S. Received March 8 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes a form of Fizeau interference dilatome ; which he considers combines the best features of the apparat described by Benoit , and belonging to the Bureau International c Poids et Mesures , in Paris , * and that described by Pulfrich'f cc structed according to the modifications introduced into the meth by Abbe .
Moreover , besides other improvements , a new principl that of compensation for the expansion of the screws of the Fize* tripod which supports the object , is introduced , which enhances t sensitiveness of the method so highly as to render it applicab to the determination of the expansion of crystals in general , iiiclu ing those of chemical preparations .
Hitherto the application of tl Fizeau method has been confined to such crystals as could be obtain* large enough to furnish a homogeneous block at least a centimeti thick .
A block only 5 mm. thick is ample for use with the author compensated dilatometer .
The principle of the compensation d( pends upon the fact that aluminium expands 2*6 times as much \#163 ; platinum-iridium for the same increment of temperature .
The authc therefore employs , like Fizeau and Benoit , a tripod of platinutf iridium , and places upon its transverse table , through which pas the three screws , a disc of aluminium whose thickness is l/ 2*6thsc the length of the screws .
The space between the lower surface c the glass plate which is laid upon the upper ends of the screws t. assist in producing the interference , and the upper surface of th aluminium , then remains constant for all temperatures under observation , and if a crystal is laid upon the aluminium compensator th ?
whole amount of its expansion by rise of temperature is available for measurement by the interference method .
Hence the method h no longer a merely relative one , affording the difference of expansion between the tripod and the substance investigated , but afford^ directly absolute measurements of the expansion .
* 1 Trav .
et Memoires , ' 1881 , p. 1 .
t * Zeits .
fur Instrument 1893 , p. 365 .
A Compensated Interference 209 ie instrument consists of two independently mounted portions , h the author terms respectively the expansion apparatus and the linating and observing apparatus .
For the purposes of pre- , lary adjustment the two portions are arranged at close quarters , ; e during the observations they stand at opposite ends of the slate \#187 ; 6 feet in length , upon which they are mounted , the expansion . .
iratus resting on a separate and movable cloth-lined slab for the , ; , ose of effecting the transfer from one position to the other .
me the optical measuring apparatus is far removed daring obser- .
ms from the heated atmosphere of the chamber containing the )d .
he illuminating and observing apparatus consists of a telescope rnged with a side tube for auto-collimation .
It is mounted on a t pedestal provided with three legs and levelling screws , and its ; lit can be varied by the vertical rack and pinion movement of a lit inner column .
At the common focus of the lens of the side tube of the telescope objective a small totally-reflecting prism is .ed , half closing the aperture of a diaphragm placed on the , active side of the prism in the main optical tube ; the prism is so inged that the light from the illuminating lens is reflected mgh the diaphragm to the objective .
It passes thence , as parallel :3 , across the intervening space to the expansion apparatus , at the unit of which it meets with one of two interchangeable deflecting ; mgements which direct the rays vertically down the tube of the ansion apparatus into the interference chamber containing the \gt ; od .
One of the two is a large totally-reflecting prism ; this is td when white light or a sodium flame is the source of light ced before the illuminating lens , the former for adjusting pur-es and the latter for generating the bands .
The other is a train 'two refracting prisms whose total minimum deviation averages ; this is used when a hydrogen and mercury Geissler tube is the rce of light ; the dispersion being then adequate to effectively arate the red C from the greenish-blue F radiations , or both from ; mercury green radiation , when it is desired to generate bands in \gt ; r F hydrogen light , or that corresponding to the green mercury e as recommended by Pulfrich .
Che expansion apparatus is suspended from an arm carried by a lestal provided with rack and pinion vertical adjustment as in the ce of the observing apparatus .
Below the deflecting prism or usms the short metal tube passes into a longer one of porcelain , ich at its lower end is fitted into a farther short metal tube carry-\lt ; \#166 ; \gt ; below the interference chamber within which the tripod is need .
On passing down the tube from the deflecting apparatus the ifs pass first through a slightly tilted , thick glass disc held in a uphragm and forming the roof of the interference chamber .
They Mr. A. E. Tutton .
then pass through the large cover-disc laid on the tripod sere the under surface of which is one of the two surfaces the reflecti s from which are to be made to interfere ; the other of the two relev f surfaces is the upper surface of the crystal supported on the cc .
pensator , or in the case of a badly reflecting crystal , of a small c3 of black glass , polished above and ground below , which the aut lays upon it .
The large cover-disc and the glass roof-disc are sligb .
wedge-shaped to the extent of 35 ' , and are arranged complementar so as to counteract the dispersion produced by each other ; by usiu : wedge-shaped cover-disc the undesired reflection from the up surface can be deflected out of the field of the telescope , and i tilt of the roof-wedge is given for a similar reason .
After refi tion from the two surfaces relevant to the interference , the re-traverse their path , but instead of doing so absolutely ' are to pass through the clear half of the telescope diaphragm to 1 observing lens arrangement .
An iris diaphragm is placed agaii the main diaphragm to assist in further excluding undesiral radiations , and the illuminated surface of the small reflecting pru can be more or less curtailed by suitable rectangular signal-stops .
There are two observing lens arrangements : one a simple ej piece and the other a micrometer combination of three lenses .
T first enables the observer to properly adjust the images of the sign stop in white light reflected from the two relevant surfaces of t interference apparatus , so as to cover each other to the exte i equired to produce interference bands of requisite width .
T1 micrometer combination converts the observing apparatus into microscope wherewith to view the bands .
The spider-lines of tl micrometer are simultaneously visible .
The reference point of tl inteiference apparatus is the centre of a minute silver ring on tl under surface of the cover-wedge , and the two vertical spider-lim can be adjusted by a special drum to such a separation as enables tl inner circle of the ring to be brought symmetrical to them , showin equal suitable arcs outside each ; this separation is also conveniei for the width of band generally employed , which corresponds 1 100 drum divisions of the other drum which moves both spider-lint simultaneously .
Th e interference chamber is provided with an adjusting table c non-conducting material , and is quite open to the heated air of th bath , being provided with large windows , which are also very useft for the adjustment of the tripod .
The heating bath is a doubt air bath of copper suitably screened in every direction by asbesto millboard .
It is provided with a thermostat in the outer bath ant two thermometers in the inner bath .
The expansion apparatus \#166 ; immersed in the latter up to a third of the porcelain tube .
Tb( actual temperature of the tripod is ascertained by a third thermo A Compensated Interference ter , bent so that the bulb lies within the chamber in contact , ; h the tripod itself ; this has been found to be a point of the , t importance .
With the aid of the thermostat and a graduated ajtap a constant temperature can readily be attained .
^ The author determines the position of the bands at about 10 ' C. , tin near 70 ' , and once more about 120 ' , in order that not only ' , mean coefficient , but the absolute coefficient at any temperature i d the increment per degree may be ascertained .
The transit of , band is followed and recorded permanently by means of a 3cially constructed tape-puncturing recorder .
This method is md more satisfactory than relying exclusively on the Abbe ; thod of mere observation of the initial and final positions of the nds for light of two wave-lengths .
The results of numerous determinations of the expansion of the atinum-iridium of the tripod are given , carried out with the sur-ce of the tripod table and the cover-wedge separated at the long terval of 12 mm. , by the aid of green mercury light .
The mean due is very similar to that of Benoit , and is a = 10"9(8600 +4*560The result of several determinations in red hydrogen light of the mansion of the pure aluminium used for the series of compensa-rs , carried out by the Fizeau relative method with a block 12 mm. Uck,1S a = 10"8(2204 + 2-120 .
Similar determinations for the black glass of the crystal-covenug lates afford the value : a = 10-9( 7257+ 10*40 .
In a subsequent memoir the author intends to present the results f determinations of the expansion of the sulphates and selenates ot otassium , rubidium , and coesium .

