o7G Mr. E. B. H. Wade .
a Method of 10 seconds , unless the molecule itself is considered .
This effect h been observed in laminated specimens .
The difficulty of woi-king with alternate currents , if the core l subdivided , in order to investigate the effects observed , using tt method in the ' Proceedings of the Rojal Society , ' vol. 53 , p. 352 , the necessity for the very accurate control and measurement of tl magnetising force .
Small variations of this force would at once mas the effects observed .
In the paper just mentioned a considerabl difference was observed between cyclic curves obtained with tb ballistic galvanometer and by means of alternate currents havin frequencies of 72 and 125 per second in the case of a laminated hat-steel ring for maximum B = 1G,000 .
On the other hand , no sue difference was observed in the case of a laminated soft iron ring when : maximum B was 4000.* It would seem from the experiments i this paper that the amplitude of induction would not be so great fo high frequency and small induction density B , and this is of import ance in the case of iron cores for transformers .
It is worth noting that when working on solid rings with the ballistic galvanometer induced currents may account for apparent magnetic instability .
Mr. H. H. Hodd has helped me in the experimental part of the paper , and I here wish to tender him my thanks .
44 On a new Method of Determining the Vapour Pressures oi Solutions .
' ' By E. B. H. Wade , B.A. Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Read May 13 , 1897 .
( Amplified Abstract , received December 22 , 1897 .
) On a previous occasionf I gave some boiling points of salt solutions under atmospheric pressure .
As the dimensions of that abstract made a full account of the experimental method impossible , I have been given this opportunity , by the courtesy of the Council of the Royal Society , of describing the apparatus and procedure by which those results were obtained .
S 1 .
Difficulties to be overcome .
The exact determination of boiling points of solutions has been attended hitherto with a good deal of difficulty .
The boiling point of the pure solvent is first determined .
Salt is then added , and the boiling point is redetermined .
The experiment consists , in fact , of two parts , and the difficulty lies in making the circumstances in which the first part of the experiment was carried out identical with * See ' Electrician , ' September 9 , 1892 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Tree./ vol. 61 , pp. 283\#151 ; 287 .
Determining the Vapour Pressures of Solutions .
377 lose in the second .
Examples of such circumstances are , barometric ressure , rate of ebullition , height of flame employed , depth of ex-^rimental liquid , and many others , and there is no doubt that the lief reason why the boiling-point method has been so little utilised , the inability to reproduce these conditions .
In particular , if the ressure under which the boiling point is to be measured is much .ss than 760 mm. , the difficulties are so much increased that no ae seems even to have attempted to make observations under such mditions .
S 2 .
Principle on which success depends measuring hy the Boiling-Point Method the Vapour Pressure Salt Solutions .
The difficulty in applying and extending the boiling-point method isappears in a great measure if not entirely , if the apparatus is uplicated , and the difference alone is measured of pure water and olution lolling under similar conditions and under the same , he magnitude of which need not then he known to within a millimetre .
The difference of temperature referred to may very profitably be leasured by the platinum resistance method .
A decided advantage f methods which obey the principle above stated , lies in the fact lat , whereas the differences of vapour pressure , measured at a ommon temperature , diminish very rapidly as the temperature is iwered , the difference of temperatures , measured under a common ressure , varies much less rapidly .
As an example , suppose that a ertain solution under a pressure of 760 mm. has a boiling point 0-52 ' igher than pure water , then under 360 mm. it will be found to have boiling point 0 45 ' higher than that of pure water , a diminution of my 14 per cent. The corresponding diminution in the difference f tension would be 53 per cent. The first apparatus employed by me to take the difference of loiling points of pure and salt water* was in form very simple , and onstructed from ordinary laboratory apparatus .
A description of it ?
here introduced , mainly because it illustrates the principle of the nor complex apparatus shortly to be described .
A current of steam from a boiler divides itself at A , fig. 1 , and \gt ; asses through two precisely similar pieces of apparatus , one con-aining pure , the other containing salt , water .
The contents are igitated by the steam , and so raised to their boiling points , and the lifference alone of the temperatures in ( he liquids was found by the jwo platinum thermometers Ti T2 .
Without giving details of this measurement it may at once be said that , as soon as it was complete , solution could be drawn off at the tap and its concentration determined .
The remaining taps ( t2 , tf ) seiwe to regulate the flow of .steam , and the bulbs to prevent a suck-back .
The apparatus worked Mr. E. B. H. Wade .
On a new Method Fig. 1 .
.from 6o/ /er well , but the condensation was so rapid that the contents of the U-tubes accumulating became unmanageable .
The difficulty was only partially overcome by jacketing with flannel .
The trouble was all the greater , inasmuch as the estimation of temperature by the platinum method requires some little time .
The only possible way of obviating this condensation was to employ a steam-jacket , and in order to do so the apparatus was completely reconstructed , so that it assumed the form described in the next section .
S 3 .
The Apparatus employed .
The apparatus which is about to be described is that which yielded the experimental numbers * Although its principle is fully contain in the very simple model of the last section , yet its form is somew a complicated .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , pp. 285 287 .
Determining the Vapour Pressures of Solutions .
379 ( Plate 1 .
) The essential part of the apparatus is as follows : h b ' ( Plate 1 ?
igs .
1 , 2 ) are two horizontal circular plates of tinned brass .
K is a Vertical glass cylinder which is gripped between them .
The two junctions are made fast with india-rubber bands .
Five vertical brass rods ( of which two , / 3X / 32 , appear .in the figure ) hold the plates b b ' and cylinder K in position .
The combination will in future be referred to as the " drum .
" Gi G2 are two cylindrical tubes ; the lower part of each is made of tinned brass , the upper of glass .
They are destined to hold pure water and solution respectively .
Outside and below the drum they terminate in a pair of three-way taps tv t2 .
Pi P2 are two pipettes , each passing through both lid and base of the drum .
Kach pipette can be connected to the corresponding G-tube in the manner shown in the plate ( fig. 2 ) .
The upper extremities of the pipettes are placed in connection by a horizontal tube A. B is a boiler , and the steam generated in it passes along A , for . .
lxii .
2 e Mr. E. B. H. Wade .
a new Method of downwards , through the pipettes , and upwards through the G-tube It then spreads into the drum ( thus jacketing the G-tuhes ) , are finally passes through the waste W into the condenser C. This ci culation is indicated by means of the arrows in the diagram ( fig. 2 The condenser leads to a Woulfe 's bottle Y in which the pressure mi he adjusted to any value .
A mercurial thermometer , T0 , passes through the lid , and i bulb is near the centre of the drum .
Its stem is jacketed by tube , connected through a tap t\#177 ; , with the steam supply in A. this tap is left wide open the steam from the generator flows almo entirely through it into the jacket tube and thus into the drui avoiding the alternative circuit through the G-tubes .
By regula ing the tap #4 we can therefore adjust the flow through the G-tub with considerable nicety .
Tx T2 are two platinum thermometers , and by means of them tl difference of the temperatures of pure water and solution , boilii under similar conditions , may be ascertained .
If it is desired to add or remove liquid to or from the G-tube the three-way taps tt tz are set so as to connect them with the rese voirs , n n , instead of with the pipettes P. When the operation is heir , carried on under ordinary pressure , the contents of the G-tuhes wi descend into the reservoir ; on the other hand , by forcing air in the reservoir , any liquid therein will ascend into the G-tube .
i reduced pressure the descent takes place as before , and in order 1 make liquid ascend it is no longer necessary to blow , but merely i open the three-way tap t5 to the atmosphere .
On doing tins tl reservoir r is placed out of connection with the low pressure in tl Woulfe 's bottle Y , and into connection with the atmospheric pressur and any liquid in the reservoir at once ascends .
Improvements.\#151 ; When the apparatus came to be used , some in provements were made as the result of experience .
It was foun* for instance , that the drum was not able completely to prevent tt condensation in the G-tubes , so that the depth of liquid in thei tended to increase .
As such changes of depth were found to be source of error , at any rate when they proceeded unequally in t two G-tubes , it was necessary either to equalise or prevent then Though this could easily be done by running off liquid from time time through the three-way taps ti t2 , such a proceeding was formal , reasons very undesirable .
Moreover , the attention of the observe was quite sufficiently occupied at the bridge and galvauome c ( S 4)* .
ij In one series of experiments , therefore , a very small symmetrical shaped double ring-burner was placed with one half under eac G-tube , and condensation was thus exactly balanced .
As tns ur _ was not used in the experiments already published ( loc. ctt .
) i Determining the Vapour Pressures of Solutions .
381 \gt ; t necessary to consider it further , except to say that the numbers that series are in good accord with those in a series obtained by e help of the ring-burner .
In the first-named series no attempt was made to prevent the ight condensation .
The burners were dispensed with and the [ ualisation of depths or " levelling " was effected by an automatic ivice to which special attention must be drawn .
( Plate 2 .
) The two metal tubes by which the steam ascended into the G-tubes were perforated at px p2 ( Plate 2 ) .
Prom each a narrow metal tube was carried horizontally as far as when it bends upwards as far as r. At this point it gives place to a burette s. The top of the burette fits into a metal tube at u which bends round , first horizontally then vertically , and finally passes through the lid Mr. E. B. H. Wade .
a new Method of of the drum at v.If the three-way taps tx t2 ( Plate 1 , not se Plate 2 ) are closed , any liquid in the G-tubes " finds its own level on the burettes , and then by means of the same three-way taps t level in question maybe adjusted to any desired mark on the buretf If a current of steam from the boiler is now caused to pa through the G-tubes , the liquid is dragged out of the burette in the G-tubes.* The current of steam used in practice was nev sufficiently rapid to empty the burettes .
Suppose , now , that conde sation proceeds more rapidly in one G-tube than in the othe Owing to the increased hydrostatic pressures , the velocity of stea on that side automatically diminishes , and in consequence some liqu slips out of the G-tube and back into the burette , till the form velocity is reproduced .
It is not claimed that this device equalised the levels of the liquids , but it certainly tended in a vei marked way to do so .
This is best demonstrated by closing tt burette taps .
On doing this the readings become unsteady at once .
One more appliance has to be described affecting the adjustmei .
of the pressure in the drum .
It was necessary that any fluctuatior in pressure ( not necessarily the result of leaks ) should at once b detected and smoothed down .
Neither mercurial thermometers no manometers are sufficiently rapid in their indications for this purpost and manometers consisting entirely of light liquids are very cum brous .
The following combination proved to be what was wantei ( Plate 1 ) .
The bottle M is more than half full of mercury , tli remainder being occupied by water coloured red by fuchsin .
i rubber cork , having two holes , fills the mouth of the bottle , leavin ' no air-space between itself and the surface of the red water .
The tal tube T passes through one hole of the cork and below the level o the mercury .
T is connected by a rubber tube to the Woulfe 's bottb V , so that when the latter is exhausted the mercury rises in T. Through the other hole in the cork passes a capillary tube whosi lower end terminates in the coloured liquid without reaching dowr so far as the surface of- the mercury .
The upper end of this capillary tube is open to the air .
About midway up it communicates through a side tube with the funnel F , which is also open to the air The coloured liquid in the bottle M extends up the capillary tube and half way up F. The usefulness of the apparatus turns on the fact that if U is open any fall in pressure in the Woulfe 's bottle will show itself mainly by a small rise of the mercury surface in T , but ^ is closed , by a fall , about tenfold greater , of the light liquid in the capillary .
This is due to the fact that the cross-section of T is great compared to that of the capillary .
The apparatus can therefore be * Compare the action of Giffard 's injector .
It should be added that , when in use , the whole system , p , q , r , s , was packed with canvas , except near the meniscus Determining the Vapour Pressures of Solutions .
383 ade of low sensitiveness till the pressure is within a little of what desired , and then by closing the tap h its sensitiveness can be creased tenfold .
Thus the observer , with his eye on the scale of le capillary and hand on the tap can make a momentary con-action either with the exhaust pump or the external air , and so egulate the pressure with great precision .
S 4 .
The Electrical Instruments .
So much for the mechanical portion of the apparatus : it remains \lt ; \gt ; describe the electrical part .
The outfit consists of two Oallendar-Griffiths platinum thermome- ; rs , a battery acting through a resistance of 50 ohms , a pair of equal arm " coils , a galvanometer , and a bridge whose 80 cm .
of ire balance the difference of resistance of the two thermometers , ius indicating the difference of their temperatures .
The method of compensating and connecting these thermometers \ fully described by Griffiths ; * the bridge , however , will require a the comment .
The wire was ordered to be 0'5 ohm to the metre , 0 which value it approached very nearly .
It was furnished with be same platinum-silver wire as the standard instruments recently upplied to Kew Observatory .
The scale unit was approximately 1 cm .
The bridge itself was furnished with Professor Callendar 's levice for obviating the greater part of the thermo-electric effects by onnecting the galvanometer to a wire running parallel to the bridge vire , and in all respects similar to it .
These effects are further emoved by a Griffiths 's thermo-electric key .
All contacts were so designed as to fall* within a very narrow ompass , where they can if necessary be enclosed in a box to prevent njury .
The equal arm coil was made of two pieces of wire having when wound ) precisely the same resistance and temperature coeffi-ient .
They are intertwined in a core of paraffin so as to be at qual temperatures .
The actual temperature is then a matter of ndifference .
The battery employed was a single'dry cell .
The galvanometer , liter repeated attempts , was made very sensitive .
The manner of 'eading its deflection differed somewhat from the ordinary one .
The nethod is similar to that of Poggendorff , except that the scale is in die eye-piece of the telescope , which is focussed ( by reflection from the galvanometer mirror ) on a signal .
Instead , therefore , of \gt ; bserving the movements of a scale relative to a fixed line in the local plane of the telescope , one observes the movements of a line relative to a fixed scale in the focus of the telescope .
In this there is nothing new .
But no one , so far as can be ascertained , has * ' Phil. Mag. , ' January , 1895 .
Mr. E. B. H. Wade .
a new Method of inquired what is the best relation of the distances between th observer and galvanometer on the one hand , and the signal and gai vanometer on the other .
Usually they are made equal , but a simp ] calculation shows that for a given angular displacement of th mirror the reading may be increased by bringing the observer nea to the galvanometer and removing the signal to as great a distanc as possible .
Using this disposition of the galvanometer , very minut deflections of the mirror were plainly visible .
S 5 .
The employment of the Apparatus to measure the difference of the Boiling Points of Bure Water and Solution .
The mode of employing the apparatus varies somewhat , accordinj as it is required to work with weak or strong solutions , and at hig or low pressures .
The procedure with the weak solutions at 760 mm. is as follows :\#151 ; Steam from the generator is caused to circulat through the empty G-tubes and drum , and a position is found on th bridge , such that on making contact the galvanometer is undeflected A reading of the bridge scale is taken and entered as " hypsomete null point .
" Water is now added to each G-tube , and caused to boi by the passage of steam .
A similar null point is found and enterei as " water null point .
" If the burettes ( Plate 2 ) are properl ; adjusted the two null points are identical .
In order now to measur the change in the boiling point due to the presence of a small quantit ; of salt , some water is removed from one G-tube , and replaced by f few c.c. of stock salt solution .
The bridge .is again balanced .
It wa found desirable that this balance should be obtained at the fifteentl minute of ebullition , and therefore at this moment the bridgi must be correctly set , the levels duly adjusted , and the galvanomete .
observed to be undeflected .
This is a work of considerable difficulty but it may be accurately performed if all one 's movements are regu lated by the indications of a clock , so that each takes place at it appointed time .
The observer ascertains , for instance , in a numb of preliminary experiments , what gain takes place in the reading of the burettes during fifteen minu tes , and in an actual experimen the levels are previously so adjusted that they shall be as nearly a\gt ; possible correct at the end of such a period .
The fifteen minutes may now be allotted to observations at the bridge and galvanometer , and then one may be sure of a close balance at the last minute .
^ levels of the burettes are finally recorded , and a sample of solution is withdrawn from the G-tubes for analysis .
As a result of the precautions described , the burette reading was almost mvana y to be within 1^ mm. of the desired height .
In any case a correc i ( L ) can always be made at the rate of 0'001 ' per 1* mm. inequality * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , pp. 285\#151 ; 287 .
Determining the Vapour Pressures of Solutions .
385 i level .
Another ( G ) is made , proportional to the swing of the gal-vnometer , if the observer has failed to procure an exact balance at ta fifteenth minute .
S 6 .
Conclusion .
This paper professes to be no more than a description of the athod employed in obtaining the results.* I must therefore post-ne till a later occasion all discussion of the precautions employed d of the accuracy obtainable .
In conclusion , I wish to acknow-Ige my indebtedness to Mr. Griffiths for much invaluable assistance , d to Professor Thomson for permission to work in the Cavendish tboratory .
February 17 , 1898 .
IR JOHN EYANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , Treasurer and Yice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks dered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Connection between the Electrical Properties and the Chemical Composition of different kinds of Glass .
" By Professor Andrew Gray , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Professor J. J. Bobbie , M.A. , D.Sc .
[ I. " On the Magnetic Deformation of Nickel .
" By E. Taylor Jones , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Andrew Gray , F.R.S. I. " Upon the Structure and Development of the Enamel of Elasmo-branch Fishes .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. , F.R.S. V. " On artificial temporary Colour-blindness , with an Examination of the Colour Sensations of 109 Persons .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. Communicated by Professor Gotch , F.R.S. V. " Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
On the Inheritance of the Cephalic Index .
" By Cicely Fawcett and Karl Pearson , F.R.S. VOL. LXJI .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc , , !
vol. 61 , pp. 2S5\#151 ; 287 .

