]\gt ; The Dissipation of in thoe Tides in Connection with the Acceleration of the Moon 's Mean Motion .
By R. O. STREET , M.A. , The University , Liverpool .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. Receiyed February 12 , 1917 .
) 1 .
In the following paper an expression for the rate of dissipation of kinetic energy in a sea is obtained in the form of an of a function of the surface-current velocities .
This expression has been used to find an approximate value for the rate of dissipation in the Irish Sea , for which much tidal information is available , and the order of magnitude of the result obtained gests that this direct effect of viscosity may account for at least an appreciable part of the earth 's secular retardation .
The water is supposed of uniform density , and at the bed of the ocean to be relatively at rest .
The motion , which , as usual , is regarded as small , is supposed non-turbulent , and sinlple-harmonic with espect to the time with a period of 12 hours .
In actual tidal motion eddies are present , so that the result here obtained for the rate of dissipation may be arded as a limit .
The question of stability is not considered .
This would require a knowledge of the slight variations of density .
It is frequently found* that , at a iven station , the maximum density is not at the bottom or the minimum not at the top .
The equations of hydrodynamics for a flat rotating sheet of water are applied to an element of the ocean .
Provided that the greatest linear dimension of the element is small compared with the radius of the earth , the error introduced is unimportant .
In any element the bottom is supposed flat , and the linear dimensions are further restricted by the tion that , in the state of relative equilibrium , the depth , to a first approximation , is constant .
As the results are obtained without lateral boundary conditions , the method may be applied by summation to a region of any area .
2 .
ider a plane element rotating with nStant aular velocity about a vertical axis , which is taken as the co-ordinate axis , the bottom of the water the plane .
Let the x- and -axes rotate in their Many examples of this are given in the Reports on the Hydrographical Investigations in the North Sea ( North Sea Fisheries Investigation Committee ) .
expression " " element\ldquo ; is used to denote a portion of the ocean of such dimenhions that the conditions here stated are sfied within it .
Dissipation of Enerqy in the Tides .
plane with the given angular velocity , and denote by the velocities at time , along and relative to these axes , of the particle of water which at that instant occul ) the position , Then , if the conditions stated above are satisfied , and if the vertical acceleration of the water is neglected in comparison with , the equations of relative motion may be written* ( 1 ) where is the kinematic coefficient of viscosity , is the Laplacian operator , and ( 2 ) is the eleyation of the disturbed surface above its position of relative equilibrium , being the potential .
If is proportional to , and supposed a function of only , let .
( 3 ) Then are functions of only , and the equations ( 1 ) become ( 4 ) For free motion in the absence of viscosity the elimination of between equations ( 4 ) and the equation of continuity leads to , ( 5 ) where is the depth of the water in the element , and is the operator .
In free motion with not zero the will , of course , not be satisfied , but the right-hand sides will be functions of which vanish with .
It may , therefore , be supposed that in a free oscillation of the sea and are of the same order of If is angular velocity of the earth 's axial rotation , for an element of the sea in latitude the appropriate value of is or , say , for the neighbourhood of England .
Also for a semi-diurnal oscillation * Lamb , ' Hdrod naluics , ' SS206 , 316 .
The validity of this supposition is verified later ( S3 ) .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. R. O. Street .
of Energy in the Hence for a depth of 1 metre , taking C.G.S. units .
It appears then that of the terms in o11 he -hand sides of equations ( 4 ) the parts are absolutely insignificant compared with the terms in occurring on the left-hand sides of those equations .
Thus the equations may be replaced by ( 6 ) Hence ( 7 ) The conditions to be satisfied by are that there is no velocity at the bottom and no shearing stress at the free surface ( supposed smooth ) .
Hence at at The solution of the first of equations ( 7 ) is therefore .
( 8 ) Let .
( 9 ) Then with the values of used cm .
, cm .
, that if is more than a few metres and may be replaced by unity without appreciable error .
With these } ) lifications equation ( 8 ) becomes , ( 10 ) and in the same way from the second of equations ( 7 ) .
( 11 ) Putting , these equations give ( 12 ) Tides the Acceleration of the Moon 's .
351 to the degree of approximation already used , where are the surface values of , and all the upper or all the lower signs of the ambiguities are to be taken .
Combining equations ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) , the equation ( 13 ) is tained for the complex relative velocities 3 .
It is now possible to verify the assumption that in a sea with viscous quality are of the same order of magnitude .
The equation of continuity for free motion is now .
( 14 ) Integrating both sides of equations ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) with respect to and as before , where .
( 15 ) Hence from equation ( 14 ) Therefore .
( 16 ) By equations ( 15 ) the coefficient of differs from unity by a small quantity proportional to From equations ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) it follows are also solutions of equation ( 16 ) , so that and are each nearly equal to ; and the assumption that they are of the same order of magnitude as unity is justified .
Mr. R. O. Street .
Dissipation of Energy in the It is important to notice that since , by equations ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) , and do llot contain a factor proportional to a power of 4 .
If denote the real relaCive velocities of the particle of water at the rate of dissipation of energy in the element is integrated through the volume .
considered , where being the coefficient of viscosity .
For oceanic tidal waves the important terms in are Integrating by parts with regard , the rate of dissipation per unit surface area is foumd to be , ( 17 ) the integrated part vanishing at both limits .
Writing where are real , there follows equation ( 3 ) .
Hence , of which the mean over a whole period is .
( 18 ) The mean rate of dissipation of energy per unit surface area is therefore , from equation ( 17 ) , iven by where denotes ' the real part and , ?
are the conjugate complexes of .
Hence ( 19 ) Tides and the Acceleration of the Moon 's Mean Motion .
353 Let , and let be the conjugate complexes of , Q. Then from equations 10 ) , ( 12 ) so that ) erefore li approximately Hence from equation ( 19 ) or , since is the density of the water , PP ' $/ ( 2)QQ .
( 20 ) Let ?
( 21 ) where are real functions of ?
, ?
/ Then the components of the relative surface yelocities , the real parts of are , V .
The hodograph of the motion is thus au ellipse , *whose dimensions and orientation are nctions of the position of the point on the surface .
the of time , the component velocities may vritten Ucos , Vcos where If therefore is Che resultant relative surface velocity siu , say .
* For drawings of the ellipses at several stations , see " " Hydrographical Observations in the North Sea in the 'Bulletin Hydrographique , ' 1910-11 , 1912-13 ( International pour l'Exploration de la Mer ) .
Mr. R. O. Street .
of in the Hence , if are the maximum and minimum values of .
( 23 ) It is to suppose that is always positive , may then be negative .
Now UV .
Hence .
( 24 ) and similarly Thus from equation ( 20 ) the mean rate of dissipation of energy per unit surface area is given by .
( 25 ) Actual measurements of current velocities show that is usually very small compared with , so that it , without serious error , be put equal to zero .
It is , however , easy to show that , whatever value may have , the order of magnitude of is unaltered by neglecting With the values of and used before .
Hence is proportional to or to Denote this expression by .
Then the maximum and minimum values of are respectively and , since must lie between and W. Also .
Thus must lie between and , and is therefore always of the same order of magnitude as Writing , where is the latitude and the co-latitude of the place ered , equation ( 25 ) gives or .
( 26 ) Rate of Dissipation of Energy in the Main Fairway of the Irish Sea at the Time of Spring fides .
5 .
The expression obtained in equation ( 26 ) for the mean rate of dissipation of energy by viscosity per unit surface area has been applied Tides the Acceleration of the Jloon 's Mean Motion .
355 to that portion of the Irish Sea which may be desc ribed as the Main Fairway .
The boundary of the area used has been determined approximately , so that all regions in which the range of tide is more than about one-tenth of the depth have been excluded .
The boundary so obtained follows the coastline fairly closely , except in Liverpool Bay and between ?
mey Islan and the Isle of Man .
The unit of area taken for the purpose of summation is bounded by meridians at an interval of 15 ' and parallels at interval of 10 ' .
On a Mercator chart of this region such a unit is approximatel .
square .
In each of these units ( or occasionally in a portion of a ) a value is assigned to the maximum surface-current velocity , and the corresponding rate of dissipation is evaluated .
The values of these maximum velocities at a large number of stations are given in the Admiralty manual , The Tides and Tidal Streams of the British Islands .
' Ihese , supplemented in a few cases by values taken from their chart of the Irish Sea , enable a value of to be interpolated in each of the units used .
As the observed velocities are given in knots and quarter-knots , it , is convenient to express in knots ) In the few cases in which the boundary of the region precludes the use of the whole of a unit , the ] of has been reduced proportionately .
The Mean Values of in the Units of Area .
Mr. R. O. Street .
Dissipation of Energy in the letters following a number in the denole that the N.E. , N.W. S.W. , .
quarters of the unit have not been included .
The area of the unit depends on its position , and to a sufficient approximation is equal to 150 square nautical miles , being the mean latitude of the unit .
Without appreciable error the portion of the sea considered may be divided into four regions : N.\mdash ; 53o N. , N.\mdash ; 54o N. , N.\mdash ; N. , N.\mdash ; 55o 20 ' N. , within each of which one value of is used .
From the Table of values of the summary of results has been constructed:\mdash ; Thus where the summation now extends over the whole of the main fairway of the Irish Sea .
in foot-pound-second units , equation ( 26 ) gives as the mean lal , e of dissipation of energy over the whole area considered foot poundals per second .
( 27 ) The area within which this dissipation takes place is 150 or 9220 square nautical miles .
( 28 ) 6 .
Neglecting the relatively small vertical velocity , the kinetic energy of the disturbed motion is per unit surface area Hence , if denotes the mean value of this kinetic energy taken over a whole period , .
( 29 ) *The publication of this Table has been sanctioned by the Hydrographer .
Tides the of the Moon 's Motion .
357 Now to the approximation already used PP'h very nearly .
Hence from equation ( 29 ) ( PP ' so that from equations ( 24 ) .
( 30 ) A rough approximation to the mean kinetic of the portion of the Irish Sea already considered may be obtained by supposing and constant , and equal to 250 feet and 5 ( knots)2 respectively over the whole 9220 square nautical miles .
With these assumptions equation ) gives for the mean kinetic foot-poundals .
( 31 ) Owing to the action of external forces , this mean kinetic energy is nearly constant over long periods of time .
Suppose that in the of these forces it could be expressed by an equation of the form so that is the in which the mean kinetic energy would be reduced in the ratio to 1 .
Then seconds , or about two hours , using the figures in ( 27 ) , ( S1 ) .
For a non-rotating sea of uniform depth , the approximate formula of Hough* is , in the present notation , seconds .
using the same values of as before .
'London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 28 , p. 275 ( 1897 ) .
Dissipation of Energy in the Tides .
The reement between these two values of is as close as could have been expected .
Effcct of Tidal Friction on the Earth 's Axial 7 .
About the-quarters of the earth 's surface is covered by water ; so that if energy were dissipated hout all the oceans at the same rate per unit surface area as in the Irish Sea , the mean rate of dissipation due to tidal friction would be fool-poundals per second .
( 32 ) This value is probably several times too , as in general much smaller current velocities are observed in the large expanses of water than in the confined regions of the Irish Sea .
8 .
It is well known that observations of the moon 's position indicate an acceleration*in its orbital motion referred to terrestrial time units .
This acceleration might be explained by assuming tfiat the earth 's axial otation has a retardation of about 4 ' of arc per century per century .
If is the kinetic energy of the earth 's rotation , and I is its moment of inertia , then so that Let correspond to the retardation of 4 ' per century per century .
Then where the second is the unit of time .
Taking foot-poundals , the rate of decay of energy is give by foot poundals per second .
( 33 ) It will be seen that this rate of dissipation is about one-quarter that given in equation ( 32 ) .
No agreement of the two results except in orders of magnitude could have been expected .
9 .
It is interesting to find the maximum surface-current velocity ( assumed unif.orm over all the oceans ) which will give rise to the retardation of per century per century in the earth 's rotation .
The actual amount of this irregularity is a matter of controversy , but its order of magnitude is of the quantity used here .
For references , cf. Sir J. Larmor , ' M. N. R. Astron. Soc vol. 75 , .
It is there shown that if the interaction ' between the earth and the moon is considered , any loss of energy is divided between two bodies in the ratio 14 : 1 .
Photo-electric Emission from Sodium-Potassium Alloy .
359 If the maximum velocity at every point is , and if at any latitude the area of the land is a third that of the sea , the mean rate of of energy would be , from equation ( 26 ) , where is the radius of the eartl ] .
Hence from equation ( 33 ) or feet per second knots .
My thanks are due to Sir J. Larmor for the interest he has taken in the work , and to Dr. Proudman for help and advice on many points which have arisen .
Complete Photo-electric Emission the Alloy of Sodium and By WILLIAM WILSON , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Prof. O. W. Richardson , F.R.S. Reccived February 17 , 1917 .
) The experimental work described in the present paper suggested itself to the writer in connection with an earlier on the law the temperature variation of the complete photo-electric emission from a hot body , i.e. the photo-electric emission fro1n a body in equilibrium with the full ( black body ) radiation corresponding to its temperature .
By making uae of hypotheses contained in the quantum theory , the writer obtained the following expression for the current per unit area where is the work done in removing an electron from the hot body , and is equal to being the lowest frequency of the radiation capable of producing a photo-electric emission , and being Planck 's constant .
The quantity is the gas constant\ldquo ; reckoned for one molecule , and A is a quantity independent of , and characteristic of the substance .
As the expression inside the brackets in the above formula does not appreciably from unity , the latter is substantially of the same type as Richardson 's equation , ( 1 ) * The expenses of this research were partly defrayed by the aid of a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , to whom my thanks are due . .
Wilson , ' Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 42 , p. 1154(1913 ) .

