1883 .
] Absorption of Ultra-Violet Rays by various Substances .
71 March 8 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I " Notes on the Absorption of Ultra-Violet Rays by various Substances .
" By Gr .
D. LlVEiNG , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 1 , 1883 .
The following notes contain some records of ultra-violet absorptions in addition to those which have been examined by Soret , Hartley , M. de Chardonnet , and other investigators .
For these observations we have generally used the spark of an induction coil , with Leyden jar , between iron electrodes as the source of light .
Occasionally we have used other electrodes , but the lines of iron are so multitudinous , and so closely set in a large part of the ultraviolet region of the spectrum , that they form almost a continuous spectrum , at the same time there are amongst them a sufficient number of breaks and conspicuous lines to serve as points of reference .
The spectroscope has a single prism of quartz , and the telescopes have quartz lenses .
The image of the spark was projected on to the slit of the spectroscope by a quartz lens , and the absorbent substances were interposed between the slit and the last-mentioned lens .
The gases were held in tubes fitted , some with quartz , others with rock salt , plates on the ends ; liquids in cells with quartz sides .
The spectra were all photographed .
Chlorine in small quantity shows a single absorption band extending from about N ( 3580 ) to T ( 3020 ) .
As the quantity of chlorine is increased this band widens , expanding on both sides , but rather more rapidly on the less refrangible side .
Different quantities of chlorine produced absorption from about H ( 3968 ) to wave-length 2755 , from wave-length 4415 to 2665 , and from wave-length 4650 to 2630 .
With the greatest quantity of chlorine tried the absorption did not extend above wave-length 2550 .
Bromine vapour in small quantity absorbs light up to about L ( 3820 ) , and is quite transparent above that .
With larger quautity Profs .
Gr .
D. Liveiug and J. Dewar .
[ Mar. 8 , the absorption increases , gradually extending with increase of bromine vapour from L to P ( 3360 ) ; and at the same time there is a gradually increasing general absorption at the most refrangible end of the spectrum beginning at about wave-length 2500 ; so that the denser bromine vapour is transparent for a band between wavelength 2500 and 3350 .
Liquid bromine m very thin film between two quartz plates is transparent for a band between wave-length about 3650 and 3400 shading away on both sides , so that below M on one side and above P on the other the absorption seems complete .
The transparency of the liquid film ends on the more refrangible side just where that of the vapour begins .
Iodine vapour tolerably dense cuts off all within the range of our photographs below wave-length 4300 , and its absorption gradually diminishes from that point up to about wave-length 4080 , from that point it is transparent.* Denser vapour produces complete absorption up to 4080 and partial absorption above that point .
Iodine dissolved in carbon disulphide is transparent for a band between Gr and H , cutting off all above and below .
It is not possible to tell how much of the light above M ( 3727 ) is absorbed by iodine in such a solution , inasmuch as carbon disulphide is opaque for rays more refrangible- than M. Iodine dissolved in carbon tetrachloride when the solution is weak , shows only the absorption due to the solvent , described below .
More iodine increases the absorption until it is complete above P ( 3360 ) , with shading edge as far down as about wave-length 3400 .
Sulphurous acid gas produces an absorption band which is very marked between R ( 3179 ) and wave-length 2630 , and a fainter absorption extending on the less refrangible side to O ( 3440 ) , and on the other side to the end of the range photographed , wave-leno-th 2300 .
Sulphuretted hydrogen produces complete absorption above wave-length 2580 .
Below that a partial general absorption .
Vapour of carbon disulphide in very small quantity produces an absorption band extending from P to T , shading away at each end ; no absorption in the higher region .
With more vapour the absorption band widens , extending from about wave-length 3400 to 3000 , and a second absorption occurs beginning at about wave-length 2580 , and extending to the end of the range photographed .
Carbon tetrachloride liquid produces an absorption band with a maximum about R , extending , but with decreasing intensity , up to * The principal absorption band of the haloids seems to shift towards the less refrangible side with increase of atomic weight , and so to agree with the general rule which Lecoq de Boisbaudran has noticed in the shifting of corresponding lines in the spectra of groups of similar metals.\#151 ; March 16 .
1883 .
] Absorption of Ultra-Violet Rays by various Substances .
73 Q ( 3285 ) on one side , and to s ( 3045 ) on the other .
In the higher region there is a second absorption sensible about wave-length 2600 , and increasing in intensity up to about wave-length 2580 , beyond which point it is complete .
Ctlonne peroxide gives a succession of nine shaded bands , at nearly equal intervals , between M and S , with faint indications of others beyond .
In the highest region this gas seems quite transparent .
A slice of chrome-alum a quarter of an inch thick , is transparent between wave-lengths 3270 and 2830 , its absorption gradually increases on both sides of those limits , but rather more rapidly on the more refrangible side than on the other , and becomes complete below about wave-length 3360 and above wave-length 2730 .
A very thin plate of mica shows absorption beginning about S ( 3100 ) , rapidly increasing above U ( 2947 ) , and complete above wave-length 2840 .
A thin film of silver precipitated chemically on a plate of quartz transmits well a band of light between wave-length about 3350 and 3070 , but is quite opaque beyond those limits on both sides.* A thin film of gold similarly precipitated merely produces a slight general absorption all along the spectrum .
The difference between the limits of transparency of Iceland spar for the ordinary and extraordinary rays , inferred from theory by Lommel , we find to be very small , and hardly to be detected without using a considerable thickness , three inches or more , of the spar .
We had expected to be able to apply the well-known photometric method by means of polarised light to the comparison of intensities of ultra-violet rays .
Ordinary Nicol 's prisms are not applicable to ultra-violet rays on account of the opacity of the Canada balsam , with which they are cemented , but through the kindness of the President of the Society , we obtained from him the loan of a pair of Foucault 's prisms .
Upon taking photographs of the spectrum of the iron spark through this pair of prisms at various inclinations between the planes of polarisation of the two prisms , we found that for the whole range between the position of parallelism and the inclination of 80 ' there was no sensible difference of effect upon the photographic plate , though the length of exposure was in all cases the same .
For inclinations between 80 ' and 90 ' there was a sensible and increasing diminution in the photographic effect as the planes of polarisation of the polariser and analyser were more nearly at right * Cornu has noticed ( " Spectre Normal du Soleil , " p. 23 , note ) that-such a film of silver is transparent for certain ultra-violet rays , but he place# them about wave-length 270 , which does not agree with our observations .
Chardonnet ( " Comp , rend .
, " February , 1883 ) says that the transparent band extends from O to ' S. W. A. Miller ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1863 ) noticed that for a certain distance in the ultra-violet a silver reflector did not reflect the incident rays .
Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Mar. 8 , angles to one another .
It seems to follow from this that the full photographic effect on the dry gelatine plates used by us ensues when the intensity of the light reaches a certain limit , but that for intensities of light beyond that limit there is no sensible increase in the effect until the stage of solarisation is reached .
II .
" Note on the Reversal of Hydrogen Lines ; and on the Outburst of Hydrogen Lines when Water is dropped into the Arc. " By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 1 , 1883 .
The concentration of the radiation of hydrogen in a small number of spectral lines would lead us to expect that the absorption of light of the same refrangibility as those lines would , at the temperature of incandescence , be correspondingly strong , and that therefore the hydrogen lines would be easily reversed .
The mass of hydrogen which we can raise to a temperature high enough to show the lines is , however , so small , that notwithstanding the great absorptive power of hydrogen for the rays which it emits , the reversal of the lines has not hitherto been noticed .
We find , in fact , that the lines are very readily reversed , and the reversal may be easily observed .
When a short induction spark is taken between electrodes of aluminium or magnesium in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure , a large Leyden jar being connected with the secondary wire of the coil , the hydrogen lines show no reversal ; but if the pressure of the hydrogen be increased by half an atmosphere or even less , * the lines expand and a fine dark line may be seen in the middle of the F line .
As the pressure is increased this dark line becomes stronger , so that at two atmospheres it is very decided .
As the F line expands with increase of pressure the dark line expands too and becomes a band .
It is best seen when the pressure is between two and three atmospheres .
When the pressure is further increased the dark band becomes diffuse , and at five atmospheres cannot be distinctly traced .
No definite reversal of the 0 line was observed under these circumstances .
The dispersion used , however , was only that of one prism .
By using a higher dispersion the reversal of both the C and F lines may be observed at lower pressures .
For this purpose we have used a Pliicker tube , filled with hydrogen and only exhausted until the spark would pass readily when a large jar was used .
# The pressures here mentioned are only measured by a metallic gauge attached to the Cailletet pump employed , and must therefore be only taken as approximately correct .

