XXXV .
A Relation of a Scirrhous Tumour , included in a Cystis , &amp;c. By Mr. Richard Russell , Surgeon , at Lewes in Sussex ; and communicated by Mr William Cheselden , Surgeon , F. R. S. AUGUST the 18th , 1713 .
I was sent for to Mrs. Smith , who had been reduced very low by a Fever , which from her Cough , sharp Pain under her Breast , and other Symptoms was judged Pleuritick .
But upon having a Discharge from her painful Breast , of a thin Gleet , all Symptoms vanished .
When I saw her first , the Liquor discharged by a small Pin-hole near the Papilla , was little more than would have wet a Handkerchief four times double .
Examining of the Breast , I found a large Tumour , that lay deep , yielding to my Fingers , and pasting like Dough .
I searched the Abcess with my Probe , and twisted out with it a Matter like Saw-dust , or Brann , mixed with Hair .
Upon laying open the Breast , I separated a Cystick Tumour , which weighed eight Ounces , and contained a solid Matter like the above-mention 'd , mixed with a Body like Hair .
Upon Enquiring into the manner of its coming , she told me , that eight and thirty Year ago , she received a Bruise in that Breast by a Fall from a Horse , which was attended with great Pain and Fluxion ; insomuch , that the Veins of her Breast appeared Varicous and Turgid , as in a Cancer ; but her Pain ceasing , they sunk , and left an Indolent Tumour in her Breast , supposed by her Surgeon to be a true Scirrhus : Since which time it hath always continued nearly in the same State , without pain , increasing very little in Magnitude , but obstructed in such a manner that she could not nurse her Child with that Breast .
The Tunic was pretty thick , nourished with very small Vessels , but had formed a Scirrhus of the Glands it adhered to , by keeping up a Distention of Parts , till there was a Cohesion of their Membranes and Vessels .
I make no doubt , but this was a Body of diseased Glands , which had suffered a Colliquation by some extravasated Fluid , and that the Membrane of the Tumour was their Proper Tunic .
After this manner all our Tunicated Tumours seem to be formed ; for when an Obstruction proceeds to Extravasation , there is a Liquor poured out which consists of such Particles , that by degrees makes a Colliquation of the Glandulous Flesh , which is not very sensible of Pain ; and by degrees the Capsula becomes distended with a Matter of a very different Consistence , which gives the Name to the Tumor , either Steatoma , Atheroma , or Meliceris .
Thus pour Oil of Olive on Spirit of Nitre , and your Oil first becomes a little hardned , then of the Colour and Consistence of Marrow , till by degrees it is hardned into a white Fat , resembling that of Animals .
The Possibility of this Colliquation and Digestion , we may the easier be induced to believe , if we consider how often we find the Glands of the Viscera petrified , without any degree of Pain , or the Membrane in any Measure destroyed : The Truth of which , every one that hath been conversant with the Dissection of Morbid Bodies , must have seen .

