146 The Combination of Hydrogen and Oxygen in Contact with Hot Surfaces .
By William A. Bone , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and Bichard Y. Wheeler , B.Sc. ( Received November 14 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The authors have made a systematic investigation of the slow combination of hydrogen and oxygen in contact with various heated surfaces , including porous porcelain , magnesia , metals such as gold , silver , platinum and nickel , and reducible oxides such as ferric oxide , nickel oxide , and copper oxide .
In each case the moist gaseous mixture was circulated at a uniform speed over the surface , which was maintained at a constant temperature in the combustion tube of the " circulation apparatus " employed by the authors in their researches on the slow combustion of hydrocarbons .
Since the steam produced was rapidly removed by condensation from the sphere of action , the rate of combination was measured by observing the pressure fall in the apparatus during successive time intervals .
The results prove conclusively that in no case does the rate of combination depend on the " order " of the reaction , as was asserted some ' years ago by Bodenstein* ( in the case of porous porcelain ) , nor yet is it governed by diffusion factors , as suggested by Nernst.f Equally certain , also , is it that the process cannot be explained by any purely chemical theory , such , for example , as the view that it involves a rapidly alternating series of oxidations and reductions of the catalysing material .
The catalysing power of a new surface usually increases up to a steady maximum when successive charges of electrolytic gas are circulated over it , and after the attainment of .this steady state , the rate of combination for normal electrolytic gas is always directly proportional to the pressure .
That is to say , the velocity curve for electrolytic gas is always of a " monoinolecular " type .
When one or other of the reacting gases is present in excess , the rate of combination is nearly proportional to the partial pressure of the hydrogen .
This applies to all the surfaces examined , except silver and copper oxide .
In the case of silver , the rate is proportional to the partial pressure of the hydrogen up to a certain condition of maximum " hydrogenation " of the surface , after which it is governed largely by the oxygen pressure .
In * ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 29 , p. 665 , 1899 .
t 'Zeit .
Phya .
Chem. , ' vol. 47 , p. 52 , 1904 .
Hydrogen and Oxygen in Contact with Hot .
147 the case of copper oxide , the rate of combination depends mainly on the partial pressure of the oxygen .
The catalysing power of porcelain , magnesia , and the metallic surfaces examined , can be stimulated , often in a high degree , by previous exposure to hydrogen at moderately high temperatures , and all these surfaces have the power of occluding hydrogen at dull red heat .
The results of the research as a whole prove that , except in the case of copper oxide , hydrogen plays an all important in the catalytic process , being rendered " active " by association with the surface .
In the majority of cases the hydrogen is merely " occluded " or " condensed " by the surface , but in the case of silver , there is evidence of a more intimate association , such as the formation of an unstable hydride at the surface .
In the case of copper oxide , the catalytic process depends primarily on the condensation of a film of " active " oxygen on the surface ; so far from the surface taking any direct part in the formation of steam , it is actually protected by the film of condensed oxygen from the attacks of the hydrogen , which would otherwise energetically reduce it .
VOL. lxxvii.\#151 ; A , ai

