]\gt ; 1903 .
Measurement of the of " " On the Measurement of the Pressure Coefficient of Oxygen , at Constant Volume , and different Initial } \ldquo ; .
and .
Communicated by ]eived June 1903 .
of 1 .
uciion .
and lecently can.ied out of measuremeuts of the pressure of hydrogen helium , and , in conjunction with Senter , applied their results to the measurement of the ) ) of liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen on the helium hydrogen scalc At the conclusion of this ) that we should make an ttempt to determine the pressne coefficient of oxyge1l , which seemed to present those peculiar difficultics -hich are adways associated with measurements involving the of in contact this gas .
The ed ) previously by evious D to nleasnre the pressure-coefficient of , but failed to obtain concordaut results .
He buted his failure to the oxidation of the mel.cury in the manometer used to sure the pressure of the oxygen .
Von JollyS obtained the as the mean of htes observations initial pressurs of ) mm. Ths observations are , however , discordant , }rying Jetwcen 0 and 3 .
Preparation of \mdash ; The oxygen used by ) potassium ermanganate .
The oxygen so , enerated)ssed over soda-limc and liquefied by passing it into a glass spiral ersed in liquid air .
By lowering the vessel the liquid air , the could be allowed to boil off gently .
In this way any trace of water .
or other impurity which might have been present completely removed .
The method of introducing the gas into the thermometer prethe same as that employed by Travers and querod .
The thermometer bul which the beginning of the research contained helium , was usted to high cnnm , along with the apparatus employed for generating the oxygen .
The therrnometer filled with pure oxygen and short time exhausted .
; 80 Messrs. H. .
Noble .
[ June This ] ) sccond time , ) eing t to admit just the ( to fill the ) to the sure desired king o. The meant as then ready for use .
4 .
exorted the the thermometer ) were determined by the height of merc column on a glass scalc placed in of it .
In these rors due to allax wpre apt to ccur in the observations , llrlless care was takell to the axis the telescopc into line the top of the meniscus , or the glass oint .
mcans that all readings were to be made at the intersection of cross wires in the tclescope .
It obviously impossible to rend ) point nd mcniscus at the centrc simultaneously .
A series was therefore to determine in what way betwcen fixed on the scale the point which lrsc , also fixed ) varied the position of the axis of the tclescopc .
dways taken to adjust the teleseope so to make the parallax corrcction small and in most cases negligible ; ) when neccssary the iate correction applied .
of csults .
of the ined in the thermometer bulo was me at the frcezing point at the of ater .
The pressure coefficicnt dedncc 1 from bhe wcll-known definition hcrc P the pressurc the oint ( on Centigrade scale the freezing point : voIumc mity ; cly from the n.hcrcP is the observed pressurc the icc ' is that at steam point , ( the } cs Ccntigradc at the point ) servations respcctivcly , the tcmpcraturcs of the space at the ice stcam point tioltS , is the of the ) ) the icc point is the volume of the ) the ) , is the volumc of the stcnl ] ) , is the volumc of the of Cocfficicnt of Correcting to a constant unity simplifies the calcnlation .
The volume of the dead from a mark on the stem lnctliscus of height cm .
contact with the glass ) } c.c. To the total the doad spacc it is to apply correction to allow for the fact the mercnry meniscus ltot rought exactly into co1ltact with the glass point .
This corrcctio1l mounts to , where is the distance the surface of tho 1ncrcury and the point and the radins of the tube cm As the height of the meniscus found to vary considcrably 11 ths various experiments , it ncccssary to introduce a furthc ] correction to allow for the of the volume of the dead space from this cause .
Aksuming the tture of the Qcns to } constant , the added is ) , whel c is the height at which the mcruscns stood when the of the dead space was is the height the experiment .
6 .
iIethod of .\mdash ; The mcasurcments of were taken in the mamler adopted by Travers and Readings of the ice point and steam point were taken in most instances in aIternate pnirs , one serics of ations } ) eing taken by each of us { or each setting .
To illustrate the or , one serics of ervation s is given in full , in the table .
In the sclics the corrected values are giv ' Five of } taken , which are indicated in the first column of the table )omaIt fignres .
The of the gas , when the bulb was in ice , is )ulated in the second In the third and fifth columns the numl ) of individual observations are recorded .
The final corrected values of and are inserted in the fourth and sixth cohunns respectively .
After Series I had , about of the oxygen contained in the bulb was allowed to escape , the second series obtained .
The thermometer bulb was then completely evacuated and refilled with oxygen , hich was used in Series III and .
The eter was again evacuated and refilled with oxyge ] ] , with a view to taking another set of observations ; but owing to an accident to the apparatus , the work was interrupted after the two observations rerorded in Series had been obtained .
On plotting the values of the coefficient against the initial pressures , the value at zero initial pressure is found on linear extrapolation to lie ] ) etween 0 and , a value which is higher similarly obtained for nitrogen Chappuis 's determinations : and likewise higher than the coefficient of hydrogen , obtained by Travers and Jaquerod .
The difference , although possibly ithin the limits of experimental , might be explained on some such assumption as the association of the molecule at lower tempe1 atures .
( 'alc xlation oiction at oefflcient and ) It is of intercst to deduce the scale correction for oxygen , using the xggested by and the coefiicient bove .
The notation adopted is as follows:\mdash ; ' .
Mag vol. 25 , 1903 , p. tho point the rhood of C. , the degrees on the Cale of the gns thermometer are of the size as those on the scale , , and as is shown in the paper quoted bove , the diflcrencc between the temperature on the gas scale ftnd on ] the absolute scale is given pproximately by the formula ] .
The term be ated , shown by Callcudar , in the { ollowing manner : the cteristic equation of the gttS to be .
( 2 ) , hcrc ( 3 ) , it be shown that SQ ( t ) , that .
The index depends on the nature of the - , and may bc for oxygen .
From the Joule-Thomsou resuIts , we ve for oxygen ab , and at C. , SQ .
; being expressed in lmitq of ergs .
Hence from tions ( , .
and At ting in cquation .
$ Joule 's Collcc(ed , p. 348 .
1903 .
] of Cocfficicnt of Taking SQ C. , hich is by veen 0 and C. , on the itssumption that the cooling cffect varics inversely as the of the tcmperaturc , taking the of tho results so ined ; taking ( the at cm .
( CGS ) , we have from equation .
Hence since the scale corrcction at C. nlaybc nccted in ison }with the zero correction , the pressnre coefficient , dotermined bove , at an cm .
of mcrcury is , lvhence is thus cquaI to , a resnIt lvhich is in good the value of the same ntity o)ined by Callendarfor nitrogen , and hydrogen .
It be by refercncc to lation ) that changes sign at a temperature ) C. , the employed iu the experiments .
In conclusion we desire to cxprcss our very best thanks to Dr. Travers , not only for his kindness in putting his apparatus at lisposal , but also for the unfailing interest which he shown in the progress of the tvork .
VOL. LXXII .

