1874 .
] On the Synthesis of Formic Aldehyde .
171 tained indicated that the explosion was transmitted from charge to charge at the rate of between 450 and 640 metres ( 1500 and 1800 feet ) per second .
These experiments with tubes showed that , when the relations between the amount of explosive material , the diameter of the tube , and the space intervening between the charges are such as to ensure the transmission of detonation , its rate is about one third of that at which it travels along a continuous mass , or continuous row of distinct masses , of the same material .
The concluding part of this memoir deals with a subject only incidentally referred to in the former memoir on explosive agents , and which has since that time acquired considerable importance\#151 ; namely , the manner in which the accumulation of heat in a mass of explosive material , and other conditions , may operate in bringing about or promoting violent explosion or detonation .
February 12 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. aNote on the Synthesis of Formic Aldehyde .
" By Sir B. C. Bhodie , Bart. , F.R.S. Received February 5 , 1874 .
In a former note I communicated to the Society the result of an experiment in which a mixture of equal ( or nearly equal ) volumes of hydrogen and carbonic oxide had been submitted , in the induction-tube , to the electric action .
My expectation in making the experiment had been that the synthesis of formic aldehyde would be thus effected according to the equation CO+H2 = COH2 .
The only permanent gas , however , other than the gases originally present in the induction-tube , which appeared in the result of the experiment wTas marsh-gas .
When a mixture of hydrogen and carbonic acid gas was similarly operated upon , the same hydrocarbon , together with carbonic oxide , was formed .
I ha\e now , however , succeeded , by a modification in the conditions of the latter experiment , in attaining the object which I originally had in view .
Evidence of this is afforded by the following analysis : The gas analyzed was the result of submitting to the electric action about equal a olumes of hydrogen and carbonic acid .
After removal from the gas of carbonic acid and carbonic oxide , and also of a trace of oxygen , 191'2 volumes of gas remained , in which were found , at the conclusion of the analysis , 2 6 volumes of nitrogen .
Deducting this amount of nitrogen , 188-6 volumes of gas remain , containing the residual hydrogen in the gas , together with m Dr. E. A. Parks on the [ Peb .
12 , any gases besides carbonic oxide formed in the experiment .
This gas was analyzed by the addition of oxygen and subsequent detonation by the electric spark , the absorption of the carbonic acid by potash , and the removal of the oxygen over by pyrogallate of potash .
The results of the analysis entirely concur with the assumption that the 188*6 volumes of gas were constituted of hydrogen , marsh-gas , and formic aldehyde in the proportions given below:\#151 ; Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 183*2 Marsh-gas ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0*2 Formic aldehyde ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5*2 188*6 The composition of 100 volumes of the gas being , Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 97*14 Marsh-gas ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*10 Formic aldehyde ... ... ... ... ... . .
2*76 100*00 Another experiment was attended with similar results , only that the proportion of marsh-gas was somewhat greater .
The result of this experiment may be considered to be given in the equation C00+2H2=COH2+H20 .
I have reason to believe that formic aldehyde is also formed in the reaction of hydrogen and carbonic oxide , and that the marsh-gas found ( in both experiments ) results from the decomposition of this substance , possibly according to the equation 2C0H2=C02 + CH4 .
I do not now dwell upon this subject , as it is my intention very speedily to lay before the Society , together with other matters , the details of the various experiments which I have made in reference to it .
II .
" On the Influence of Brandy on the Bodily Temperature , the Pulse , and the Respirations of Healthy Men/ ' By E. A. Parks , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Hygiene , Army Medical School .
Received November 29 , 1873 .
In the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( Nos 120 , 123 , and 136 ) the details of experiments are given which show that in two healthy men pure ethyl alcohol , brandy , and claret , given at intervals during the day , produced no effect on the temperature of the body as measured in the axilla and rectum .
This result is in accordance with the experiments of several other observers , while there are some experimenters who have noticed a decrease in temperature in healthy men after the use of alcohol .
In some cases of disease in men and in some healthy animals alcohol has caused , it would seem , a decided lessening of temperature .

