338 Effect of Rontgen 's Rays on Cloudy Condensation .
[ Mar. 19 this arrangement .
In all of them the potential varied under the influence of the rays by an amount similar in direction and magnitude to that previously observed .
S 13 .
I have observed that the activity of the vacuum bulb seems to determine , to some extent , the potential difference observed on the electrometer ; that is to say , if the rays are very weak and unsteady ( as judged by the fluorescence of the vacuum bulb ) they do not make the air sufficiently electrolytic to counterbalance the contact potential difference between the surfaces of the plates .
Thus , when the bulb is not fluorescing brightly and steadily , one gets results which are uncertain and perplexing .
But these appear to give place in all cases to more definite values whenever the rays are strong and steady .
S 14 .
The conclusions I have drawn from these experiments are that ( 1 ) the influence of the rays on the zinc and tinfoil plates does not cause any direct or sudden change in their contact potential , but that ( 2 ) the air through which the rays pass is temporarily converted into an electrolyte , and when in this condition forms a connexion between the plates which has the same properties as a drop of acidulated water , namely , it rapidly reduces the potential between the opposing surfaces of the plates to zero , and may even reverse it to a small extent .
It is interesting to note that this electrolytic property was found by Lord Kelvin ( * Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' Art .
XXIII , SS 412\#151 ; 414 ) to be possessed by the fumes from a burning spirit lamp .
In both cases its cause is probably the same .
It is , no doubt , due to a want of electrical equilibrium among , and a partial dissociation of , the molecules of the gas .
VI .
" The Effect of Rontgen 's Rays on Cloudy Condensation .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Sc. ( Viet .
) , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , Clerk-Maxwell Student .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1896 .
In a paper on " The Formation of Cloud in the Absence of Bust , " read before the Cambridge Philosophical .
Society , May 13th , 1895 , I showed that cloudy condensation takes place in the absence of dust when saturated air suffers sudden expansion exceeding a certain critical amount .
I find that air exposed to the action of Rontgen 's rays requires to be expanded just as much as ordinary air in order that condensation may take place , " but these rays have the effect of greatly increasing the number of drops formed when the expansion is beyond that necessary to produce condensation .
Cinder ordinary conditions , when the expansion exceeds the critical 1896 .
] OnTuracin and Turacoporpliyrin the Blood .
339 value , a shower of fine rain falls , and this settles within a very few seconds ; if , however , the same expansion he made while the air is exposed to the action of the rays , or immediately after , the drops are sufficiently numerous to form a fog , which persists for some minutes .
In order that direct electrical action might be excluded , experiments were made with the vessel containing the air wrapped in tin-foil connected to earth .
This was exposed to the rays ; the air was then expanded , the current switched off from the induction coil , and finally the tinfoil removed to examine the cloud formed .
As before , a persistent fog was produced with an expansion which without the rays would only have formed a comparatively small number of drops .
It seems legitimate to conclude that when the Rontgen rays pass through moist air they produce a supply of nuclei of the same kind as those which are always present in small numbers , or at any rate of exactly equal efficiency in promoting condensation .
VII .
" On the Relations of Turacin and Turacoporphyrin to the Colouring Matter of the Blood .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , Victoria University .
Received March 12 , 1896 .
In a recent paper read before the Royal Society , I have shown that the intense absorption band in the extreme violet , which is observed , by means of photography , in the spectrum of highly diluted solutions of hemoglobin and its compounds , is ( with slight changes in its position ) exhibited by certain of the derivatives of the blood colouring matter , e. \lt ; 7 .
, by hemochromogen and the compounds of hematin , and by that remarkably interesting coloured but iron-free derivative of the latter body , hematoporphyrin .
Having found that no organic body which I had examined ( not even such as the colouring matters of alkanet-root or picro-carmine , which present in the visible spectrum absorption bands not unlike those of the blood colouring matter ) exhibits an absorption band occupying the position , or possessed of the remarkable intensity , of the extreme violet band under discussion , it seemed as if the latter owed its origin to a group of atoms existing in and perhaps characteristic of the blood colouring matter , which group remains intact in certain of the products of decomposition of the complex hemoglobin molecule , whereas it does not exist in certain other of the derivatives of the hemochromogen or hematin moiety of the molecule , such as bilirubin and urobilin .

