]\gt ; IX .
The Influence of Stress and on the Properties of .\mdash ; Part III .
Magnetic Induction ( continued ) .
\mdash ; The Internal Friction of Iron , Nickel , and Cobalt , studied by means of Maynetic Cycles of very minute range .
* HERBERT TOMLINSON , B.A. , F.R. Received August 22 , \mdash ; Read Decembe ] 5 , 1889 .
Revised May 19 , 1891 .
TABLE 0F CONTENTS .
PAGE .
Purpose of the investigation . . . . . .
341 Description of apparatus . . . . . . . . .
342 Mode of annealing . . . . .
344 Relation between change of induction and change of force in any cycle , .
345 The values of A and the same in cycles of different ranges of force . . . . .
348 Mathematical formulae . . . . .
349 The limit of force within which A and are constant . . . . . .
350 The effect of altering the magnitude of the steps by which the force is increased or diminished . . . . .
351 Molecular " " accommodation\ldquo ; . . . . .
351 " " Fatigue of elasticity or upset of ' ' accommodation\ldquo ; . . . . .
355 Effect of annealing on the values of A and . . . . .
358 The temporary effect of change of temperature on the values of A and . . . . .
361 The effiect of sudden cooling on the of A and . . . . . . . . .
362 The effects of permanent extension , hammering , and torsion on values of A and B. 362 The temporary effect of loading on the values of A and . . . . . . . . .
363 Relations between the dissipations of energy in tol.sional and magnetic cycles . . . .
366 Summary . . . .
868 PURPOSE 0F THE INVESTIGATION .
Three years ago the author had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society two memoirs relating to the internal friction of metals , as studied by the logarithmic * An abstract of this paper has been published in ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 47 , p. 13 .
In prosecuting the research , the .
author has received assistance from the " " Elizabeth Thompson Science Fund U.S.A. , and from the Enghsh ' Government Grant For the aid rendered from these sources he begs to return his most grateful thanks .
31.7.91 .
The nometer .
The magnetic induction was measured by the throw of the needles of a very sensitive Thomson 's reflecting galvanometer , whose scale was placed 2 metres from the mirror .
For reasons which will be mentioned presently , the time of vibration was made very short whilst the damping was rather considerable ; but this , as will be seen , did not interfere with the accuracy of the observations .
The Battery .
used.ompared fution ohate osaturated sution ophate otandard ccharged w to interpret the readings correctly in absolute measure , is to compare the throw of the needles produced by suddenly altering the magnetising force with that produced by suddenly turning the earth coil through 180 degrees ; and provided the throw is proportional to the transient current , the reduction to absolute measure will be accurate .
* ' Phil. Mag vol. 23 , March , 1887 , p. 286 .
Within the limits of the experiments the dissipation of energy was found to be independent of tho vibration-period .
It need hardly be said that as a consequence of this the present ation is entirely concerned with the insiantaneous changes which are produced by the application or removal of the magnetising force .
Evidently the effect of repeated heating and cooling on the dissipation of energy in a magnetic cycle is qui.te as striking as that in a cycle .
There is this difference , however , in the effect of heating and cooling in the two cases .
In cycles the process has very little effect on the elasticity , whereas in magnetic cycles the magnetic susceptibility is very considerably diminished .
Several experiments in the same direction were now made with different specimens of iron and steel , with the results recorded in rfable The above table shows the importance when annealing of raising the temperature sufficiently high , and maintaining the high temperature for a sufficient time , also of cooling slowly .
That a high temperature is required is well exhibited by the behaviour of and NEPHEW'S iron wire .
This had been raised by the makers to a temperature above dull red , and the wire was rendered by their annealing exceedingly Qoft and , moreover , for high , or rather comparatively high , magnetising forces , of great netic permeability ; but annealing in the Fletcher 's furnace at the temperature of 100 C. nearly doubled the permeability for very minute magnetising forces , and more than doubled the internal friction .
The annealing , by passing the wire slowly several times through the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , so as to heat all parts equally to a bright red , does not seem satisfactory , partly , it ; may be , because a sufficiently high temperature is not reached , and partly , doubtless , because the cooling is too rapid ; in every instance , annealing by FIetcher 's furnace at the temperature of 1000o C. , produced higher values of both A and than annealing by a Bunsen 's burner .
This last fact is especially noticeable in the nickel wire , where the annealing with the.furnace nearly doubled the value of A in the wire which had previously been annealed with the burner , as well as by Mr. ANDREWS at the temperature of 58 C. Professor EWING has examined the magnetic permeability of nickel wire with very low magnetising forces , and he finds the value of A for nickel to be This is very much less than that obtained by the author for the annealed * The slow cooling is , at any rate , necessary for iron ; for nickel and cobalt it may not be necessary .
' Phil. Trans vol , 179 ( 1888 ) , , p. 332 .
Professor finds the susceptibihty to be ; this would make the permeabihty equal to or

