]\gt ; [ 467 ] XV .
of Magnetism .
ARTHUR SCHUSTER , F.R.S. , Professor of in Owens Collcc ) .
With Appendix by H. LAMB , F.R.S. , Professor tatics in Owens Cotlege .
Received March 20 , \mdash ; Bead March 28 , 1889 .
I. Iruroduction .
IN the year 1839 GAUSS published his celebrated Memoir on Terrestria ] Magnetism , in which the potential on the Earth 's surface was calculated to 26 terms of a series of surface harmonics .
It was proved in this Memoir tha .
, if the horizontal components of magnetic force were known all oyer the Earth , the surface potential could be derived without the help of the yertical forces , and it is well known now how these latter can be used to separate the terms of the potential which depend on internal from those which depend on external sources .
Neyertheless GAUSS made use of the forces in his calculations of the potential in order to ensure a greater degree of accuracy .
He assumed for this purpose that magnetic matter was distributed through the interior of the Earth , and mentions the fair agreement between calculated and observed facts as a justification of his assumption .
In the latter part of the Memoir it was suggested that the same method should be employed in the tion of the regular and secular variations .
The use of harmonic analysis to separate internal from external causes has never been put to a practical test , but it seems to me to be especially well adapted to enquiries on the causes of the periodic oscillations of the magnetic needle .
If the magnetic effects can be fairly represented by a single term in the series of harmonics as far as the horizontal forces are concerned , there should be no doubt as to the location of the disturbing cause , for the vertical force should be in the opposite direction if the origin is outside from what it should be if the origin is inside the Earth .
As the expression for the potential contains in one case the distance from the Earth 's centre in the numerator , in the other case in the denominator , and as the vertical force depends on the differential coefficient with regard to distance from the Earth 's centre , each single term in the series is of opposite sign according the location of the cause ; but what is true for each single term need not be true for the sum of the series .
By a curious combination of terms the vertical forces might possibly be of the same sign , on whichever of the two hypotheses it is calculated .
In any case , however , the differences between the two results will be of the same order of magnitude as the vertical force itself If it is then a question simply of deciding whether the cause is outside or inside , without taking into account a possible combination of both causes , 20 .
12.89 4 ( i8 PROFESSOR A. SCHUSTER ON THE DIURNAL the result should not be doubtful , even if we have only an approximate knowledge of { he vertical forces .
Two years ago I showed that the leading features of the horizontal components for diurnal variation could be approximately represented by the surface harmonic of the second degree and first type , and that the vertical variation agreed in direction and phase with the calculation on the assumption that the seat of the force is outside the arth .
The agreement seelned to me to be sufficiently good to justify the conclusion that the greater of the riation is due to causes outside the Earth 's Nevertheless , it seemed adyisable to enter more fully into the matter , as in the first , approximate treatment of the subject a number of important questions to be left toudled .
I now publish the results of an investigation which has been carried as as the observations at my disposal have allowed me to do .
My original conclusions have been fully confirmed , and some further information has been obtained which believe to be of importance .
The results of the calculation point not only to an external source , but to additional internal source , standing in fixed relationship to the external cause .
This we might have expected .
A varying potential due to external causes must be accompanied by currents induced in the Earth 's body , in turn , must affect the magnetic needle .
The phase of these currents and their magnitude lead us to definite conclusions on the average conducting power of the Earth , and it will be seen that there is strong evidence that the average eonductivity is very small near the surface , but must be greater further down .
Tn this part of investigation had much assistance from my colleague , Professor LAMR I hope the results obtained in this paper may induce the heads of magnetic to consider the gestions which have made at the end of it , as adoption would very materially assist further inyestigations .
I had , in the first place , to fix on a year for which we possess as complete records as possible .
The phase of the variation of horizontal force changes sign in a latitude not far removed from that of Lisbon , .
and it seemed to me , therefore , essential the excellent observations there made by Sen. Jos .
CAPELLO should be made use of .
The observations are published as far as 1872 , and I had to take a year therefore .
anterior to this .
It seemed also desirable to make use of the St. Petersburg observations , as it is the most norther ] station for which we have records extending over a period of years , and as Mr. H. WILD'S well-known skill gives special value to the observations made under his direction .
The obseravtions ( continued since 1878 in Paulowsk ) were interrupted in 1871 and 1872 , and we have to go back , .
therefore , as far as 1870 if we want to utilise the St. Petersburg and Lisbon observations simultaneously .
As far as the horizontal components are concerned , we also possess good records of 1870 at Greenwich and Bombay .
Four stations are sufficient to find to the necessary accuracy the potential on the surface of the Earth , but it would be of advantage if in future similar nveBtigations a greater number of stations could be utilised .
VARTATION OF RRESTRI A MAGNETISM .
The observations are published in very different form by the various observe tories .
The units of force at Bombay and St. Petersburg are the unit millimetermilligram-second .
At Lisbon it is the foot-grain-second .
At Greenwich the variations are given in terms of the whole vertical and horizontal force .
At Bombay , moreover , the observations are given not for a certain hour , but for a time which yaries with different instruments between 12 and 19 minutes past each hour .
For this there was some reason originally , but at present it would be far better if mbay would adopt the practice of other .
The daily variations had , in the first , to be all reduced to C.G.S. units , and , further , instead variations in declination and horizontal force , we had to find the components of the periodic force towards the geographical North and West .
I am much indebted to Mr. , of the Greenwich Observatory , for the help he has given me in the reduction of the observations to a form which I could use in my calculations .
A good many of the computations were done under his direct superintendence , and much time and trouble saved me in consequence .
The daily variation of decline tion and horizontal force was expressed in the form where represents astronomical time .
The summer months , April to September , were treated separately from the winter months , October to March .
The unit of force , convenience 's sake , was taken as C.G.S. Tables I. and II .
give the coefficients which were calculated according to a wellknown method from the original observations .
Tables III .
and IV .
give the same coefficients reduced to forces directed to the geographical North and West , instead of to the magnetic North and West .
Before showing how , with the help of these coefficients , the surface potential call be calculated , I must deduce a few formulae which will be used hereafter .
TABLE I.\mdash ; Force to Magnetic West .
Coefficients in the expansion The unit of force is 1 C.G.S. being astronomical time .
TABLE II.\mdash ; Force to Magnetic North .
Coefficients in the expansion The unit of force is 1 C.G.S. being astronomical time .
BomLay .
Lisbon .
\mdash ; eenwich , TABLE III.\mdash ; Force to Geographical West .
Coefficients in the expansion The unit of force is 1 C.G.S. being time .
VARJATION OF TERRESTRTAL I. IV.\mdash ; Frce to Geographica ] North .
Coefficients iu the expansion The unit of force is 1 being astronomical time .
St. Petcrsburg .
lI .
So useful in the In the expansion of mathematical expressions into ) erical harmonics , it will often occur that we have to express powers of the cosine of an angle , or a cosine of some multiple of an an gle , in terms of the differential coefficients of harmonics with respect to the cosine of argument .
The necessary equations for the powers of cosines can be easily obtained by differentiation of the well-known formulae , giving the powers of a cosine in terms of zonal harmonics .
But think it will be useful here to give the general equations have had to use in expressing in terms of , where is any given number , and the zonal harmonic of degree We may start from the expression .
( 1 ) , where .
if and be even , . . .
if nd be odd .
expressions are included in the general o. no where sive factors of both numerator and denominator increase by 2 .
If in formula ( 1 ) we substitute for any term ( 2 ) , we obtain an expression for in terms of the first differential coefficients of the zonal harmonics ; and , if in formula so obtained we successively apply the transformation we finally obtain the equired expression in terms of any required differential coefficient .
I have obtained in this way the equation .
( 3 ) , where is written shortIy for , and .
( 4 ) , except for the last term of the series , which will be given presently ( 5 ) .
If this expression rees with the one previously given , and , as I shall proceed to show , if it is true for any value , it will also be true for the value .
Assume , then , .
equation ( 3 ) to hold .
The relation shows that the factor multiplying in the expression for will depend only on and on in ( 3 ) .
If is this , we have * In the very useful book on ' Spherical Hax.monics , ' by FERRERS , the factor does not occur in tho general expression for ( page 38 ) ; but , from the deduction of the formula , it is clear that the factor must be taken twice when it occurs in the numerator , and not at all when it occurs in the denominator .
In using the equation I was at first led into error by the ambiguity , and hence I believe the expl.ession given above to be VARTATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
or , by substituting from ( 4 ) and the corresponding equation , - The square bracket reduces to so that . .
, where . .
' which agrees with ( 4 ) if is written for 1\ldquo ; and for The end terms require special consideration .
As only the eyen or only the odd zonal harmonics enter into any one series , the difference between and in the equation ( 3 ) must be even ; hence , bhe numerators in the fractional expression of ( 4 ) consist of even numbers , whatever values ?
, or may have .
If be odd , the zonal harmonics will all be odd , and the last term of the series will depend on if be even , and if be odd , for the differential coefficients of the zonal harmonics of lower degree will vanish .
The expression ( 4 ) in neither case gives the correct factor , and we substitute ' it in both cases If in ( 4 ) is put to , the first and last term ] be equal to } ; in that case the is only taken once .
The expression ( 5 ) is easily proved , shown to hold also if ) be eyen .
The first term of the series is included in general expression ( 4 ) .
I have deduced with the help of the equation ( 3 ) the following lations , will be used in this paper:\mdash ; .
( ) , . . .
, ESSOR A. CHUSTER ON THE DIURNAL ( C ) , ( D ) , ( E ) , ( F ) ; ( G ) , ( 1 ) , ' ( K ) , , .
There is another formula in similar inyestigations , which may a place I have not used it in the final reductions .
It is the expression of a in terms of the coefficient of other zonal haxmonics . .
the general term being The proof is conducted exactly in the same way as for equation ( 3 ) .
If is equa to or greater than , the series has its full number of otherwise the ries breaks off owin. .
to the ltia .
coefficients vani VARIATI N OF III .
We know tion t ) Arctic , the daily of the West force is nearly the same the sane circle of laritude .
It is this which rendel .
S the present investigation } , of obsel.vation will be to iv a of nature of osciltion over a considerable of the .
If at ce we find that the element be expressed in the form . .
, when is reckoned by local time , the variation point of the latitude by writing for , where is the itude towards the Last standard meridian and now is the time of the standard meridian .
At the time we have then the variation of ) to West in ] tudes expressed by coeHicients will be functions of the latitude , and by expressing these unctious in a series of proper form we at once obtain expression for the If X is the force to the force to ) West , and the vertical force , reckoned positive upwards , we have , putting for the titude , ind the longitude towards the East , ' being Earth 's adius .
If we can expand ternls ) surface harnonics is accomplished , for this purpose we need only express , \amp ; c. , in series of tesseral harmonics .
The of in tel.lns of the tri ) ) of its multiples is so easily out by the method of least squares , if the function i.s given fur a ular series of submultiples of , that it beelned to me to be easiest method of proceeding to by interpolation the of its values circles of latitude .
obtain curve of values on latitude , directly observed foul points the potential ( it is observed to be ) on the Northern ispheres , to we apply the to be the one for which the eitll observed summer variations in the Northern bolds ) the West force the period , in the of the obseryed of the them 1 to ' llake our expression with observation .
We have then eight values for the different terms of tbrough which we might at orlce proceed to draw a curve ; but , making use of the observed variations of Northern force , we can also calculate the direction of the tangent of the required curve for the same eight points .
This has been done as follows .
be expressed as , and X as .
The existence of a potential implies the relation or , by substitubion , ; These equations give the rate of change per radian ; to get the rate of change per of colatitude we have to multiply the differential coefficients with the circular measure of one degree .
The able gives the rate of change of the West force per of colatitude , calculated as explained from the force .
TABLE un it of force in Table is the unit of latitude is 1 degree .
VARIATION OF Curves were now carefully drawn for each of the eight coeflicients , making them fit in as well as possible with the ordinates and the direction of their tangents , as given in Tables III .
V. The values of were then read off of colatitude , and a fresh table was formed ( Table VI From this point onwarck we ]Jave to carry on the calculations rately for type of the val.iation .
Coefficients in the siu .
for degrees of colatitude , unit of force C. The quantities were expressed in the usual way in terms of the multiples of the cosines of the colatitude , and two equations obtained which can be shown to represent with sufficient accuracy the force of the type towards the geographical West .
cos.5 If , now , , \amp ; c. , be expressed in terms of OR A. ON DIURNAL \amp ; c. , of which depends on and Afteltion ith , one side of the equation contains the in form of only , hence we obtain at once required sion of .
The With the ) of have , finally , [ A ] .
To , an ression for , the series of coefficients were expressed in terms of , \amp ; c. , giving the equations From the known } sion ofpu , in .
the hrst differential coefficient of the zonal harmonics , we obtain by rentiation an equation which will at once us in the required form .
Thus , for instance , we have by quation D , page 474 , and ting with respect to By this and other similar ressions , we find VARTATION and from this , by muitiplication with ration ] ] ) to [ ] .
To find coefficient , the values of these coeffici e divided by , for a reason .
It then found , to represent the numbers so obtained ctorily , a reat e ) of terms was necessary in the expansion thorn observations to .
I thns led to give up as these types al.econcel.ned the terms on the difference between SllInmer and winter depends , so that , instead of fficients f Table VI .
, the mean of corresponding values or ] both sides of the equator taken , , of course , the sigIl of the givcll for the hern h ] ) here .
In the next , it was found to the smallnless of sin latitude , the three numbers corresponding to the hile their very small , they only obtained by } ) ; have , therefore , discarded these numbers ether , putting them into ckcts in Table VI .
has shown how the method of least be applied to obtain trigonometrical series foy a of some of which The equations thus calcul d as follows:\mdash ; r , os The agreement with numbers from ] which the series obtained is good as would be desirable , especially for , but the than the second will probably depend much on local circumstances , aljd the result would not , in my opinion , repay the trouble of taking account of rther t in the above series ; , and have already been given in tions , and , by differentiation with respect to , we in terms of .
This gives , by substitution and integration with respect to We have obtained thus finally , 38 coefficients in the expansion of , which , for the sake of reference , I collect into Table In this Table is the coefficient of TABLE The unit of force is C.G.S. 10 In order to show how far these llumbers correctly represent the forces which have been made use of in their computation I have ca]culated backwards from the potential the force to West .
Table VIII .
exhibits the results , showing by comparison the coefficients calculated from the form u ] for the potential with those obtained directly by observation .
It will be seen that the agreement is satisfactory , except for the coefficients and In figs. 1 ; 2 , 3 , and 4 the curves for the mean of the year plotted .
In these curves only the firet four terms have been used .
The numbers from which the curves are plotted are given in ] IX .
The curves are seen to be almost identical , and having , the , refore , obtained an expression for potential which correctly represents the observed West force , we may turn to the main cb.iect of this and calculate the vertical forces .
The calculation of the various components from the potential involves the knowledge of the differential coefficients of zonal harmonics and of the tesseral harmonics for the VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
Fig. 1 .
BOMBAY .
Comparison between calculated and observed curve of West force .
The abscissae denote astronomical time , the ordinates the force to West , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
curve .
dotted line .
Comparison between calculated and observed curve of West force .
abscissae denote astronomical time , the ordinates the force to geographical West , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
Calculated curve , dotted line .
PROFESSOR A. SCHUSTER ON THE DIURNAL Fig. 3 .
GREENWICH .
ison between calculated and observed jurve of West force .
The abscissae denote astronomical time , the ordinates the force to geographical West , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
Calculated curve , dotted line .
Fig. 4 .
ST .
Comparison between calculated and observed curve of West force .
The abscissae denote astronomical time , the ordinates the force to geographical West , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
Calculated curve , dotted line .
VARIATION OF } four observing stations .
The numbers which I have computed for this purpose are given in Table X. In that table stands for , .
9 where and is the zonal harmonic of degree TABLE VIII.\mdash ; Comparison between observed and calculated coefficients of West force .
\ldquo ; IX.\mdash ; Comparison between calculated and observed variation of force to West .
The unit of force is C.G.S. .
The first four terms on lie of the series have been taken into account .
ical ) VARIATION OF STRIAL MAGNETISM .
TABLE X.\mdash ; Numerical values for the zonal harmonics , their differential coefficients , and the functions 31.1374 139.090 IV .
Comparison of Observed Forces .
The complete potential can be written down from the value at its surface in the usual manner , either on the supposition that the potential is zero at an infinite distance , or that it is zero at the centre of the Earth , the first supposition corresponding to the hypothesis that the seat of the magnetic variation is outside the Earth .
If is a surface harmonic of degree occurring in the expansion of , the solid harmonic will either be or .
The vertical force is given by , as the force is considered positive when it acts downwards .
At the surface , therefore , we have a term for the vertical force which is either or Before we proceed to discuss the comparison between the observed and calculated values of the vertical force , a few words are necessary regarding the available observations .
The only station for which we have complete records for 1870 is Lisbon .
It is therefore impossible to obtain a satisfactory series for the vertical force which would give us , if our information was more complete , directly the two terms , one due to outside , the other due to effects .
But I shall show that even from the existing data we can draw important conclusions .
At Bombay no vertical force determinations are published , as far as I know , before 1873 , when the magnetograph came into operation ; but we have complete records between 1873 and 1878 .
During these years the general type of the vertical force remained practically the same , only the range varying .
Figs. 5 and 6 , for instance , Fig. 5 .
Fig. C. are tracings of the curves given by Mr. CHAMBERS in the years 1873 and 1877 , the two years which differ most in range .
The other years curves varying between these two extremes .
As far as the general form of the curve is concerned , we cannot go far wrong , therefore , if we make use of the 1873 observations , especially as the horizontal components show no marked difference ( except as regards range ) in 1873 and 1870 .
Similar remarks apply to Greenwich .
Although published records exist for 1870 , there is an uncertainty about the temperature correction , which makes the vertical force observations previous to 1882 useless for our present purpose .
able XI .
will give an idea of the changes which the vertical force variation is VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
subject to in various .
The nulnbers are copied from the published records of the Greenwich Observatory .
TABLE XI .
Coefficients the series where changes in represent changes in the vertical force , the unit being 00001 of the whole vertical force ; being the time from midnight .
The principal discrepancy here occurs in the angle , which would giye a difference of phase between 1885 and 1886 of about , or about an hour and a half ; the angle differs much a , t Greenwich during erent months ; the phases of the other terms show practically no difference .
In comparing the observed and calculated values , I have taken the year 1884 , as during that year the range of the declination needle was greatest , and corresponded most nearly to that of 1870 .
At St. Petersburg , also , the results for 1870 are not corrected for temperature , and there is reason to believe that this has affected the observed type e , onsiderably .
I have therefore compared the results of calculation with observation , also , for the year 1878 , in which year the temperature corrections have been taken into account .
We must remember , then , in the comparison between the observed and calculated values , that the greatest weight must attach to the Lisbon observations , that comparatively little value is to be given to St. Petersburg , as I have no records at my disposal which would enable me to judge how far the type of vertical force there varies from year to year .
Tables XII .
and XIIT .
give the values of the coefficients ] , \amp ; c. , as calculated on the hypothesis that the disturbing force comes from the inside of the Earth .
Tables XIV .
and XV .
give their values calculated on the hypothesis that the disturbing force is outside .
In both cases the observed numbers are given for comparison .
I have calculated the values for Lisbon separately for the winter and for the summer months ; in the other cases the values for the mean of the year only have been taken .
The years attached to the observing stations refer to the date of the observations ; the calculated values all belong to 1870 .
TABLE XII .
Coml ) arison between the observed and calculated coefficients for the vertical force , on the hypothesis that the disturbing force is inside the Earth .
TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Comparison between the observed and calculated coefficients for the vertical force on the hypothesis that the disturbing force is inside the Earth .
Bombay .
Lisbon St. Peter burg .
TABLE XIV.\mdash ; Comparison between the observed and calculat , ed coefficients on the assumption that the disturbing force is outside the Earth .
Bombay .
Lisbon , summer winter .
Greenwich , 1884 .
St. Petersburg , 1870 . .
VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL IAGNETISM .
TABLE XV.\mdash ; Comparison between observed and calculated cocfficients ) on the assumption that the force is outside the Earth .
Bombay Lisbon St. Petersburg .
ourselves in the first place to the first four coefficients , we find that out of twenty oefficients eighteen have the wrong sign on the hypothesis of an internal cause , while only two have the wrong ' on the hypothesis of an external cause , and those two belong to St. to which station , as , pointed out , we cannot attach much value .
If instead of the numbers given 1870 we take the numbers given at the same statio ) for 1878 , the agreement becomes better , even for St. Petersburg .
The coefficients are of course more uncertain ; but even here the evidence is strongly in favour of the external cause .
Out of twenty coefficients seyenteen agree in sign with that ) othesis .
A better } ) can perhaps be obtained in a different way : the two terms can be written , where is the amplitude of the oscillation , and the time at which the maximum elongations take place .
Tables .
and XVII .
contain the results for , and from these tables I think it will clearly appear that the phase of the vertical force completely agrees with the assumption of an external and completely disagrees with the assumption of an cause .
For Lisbon , our principal station of comparison , the phase in Table XVI .
agrees for both the diurnal and semi-diurnal variation within four minutes of time .
For Bombay diurnal rees within three minutes , and the semi-diurnal variation within 36 minutes . .
Greenwich , the semi-diurnal variation , which we have seen differs little from year to year , agrees closely , while the diurnal varialio shows a greater difference .
In all these cases the phases , as calculated in are in as great a disagreemeut as possible .
St. Petersburg gives less decisive results , but they still go in the same direction , especially if we take the observations of 1878 to represent the type of vertical variation .
The mplitudes of the variation are given in Table XVIII .
where the second gives the calculated values on the hypothesis which we must reject , while the third column gives the same numbers calcnlated on the assumption of an external cause .
The calculated numbers are much larger than the observed , which is a fact requiring explanation .
But , the range of vertical force differing from year to year , we must confine ourselves in our principally to the Lisbon observations .
The changes in range of different years , as far as we have any observations , are not so considerable , however , as to account for the discrepancies at Bombay or Greenwich , and we must conclude , I believe , that also for those stations a considerably smaller range is obtained in the observed than in the calculated forces .
TABLE XVI .
Observed and calculated values of the coefficients and of vertical force , when expl.essed in the form on the supposition that the disturbing force is inside the Larth .
TABL XVII.\mdash ; Observed and calculated values of the coefficients and when expressed in the on the supposition that the disturbing force is outside the Earth .
VARIATION OF RIAL MAGNLTISM .
TABLE XVIII.\mdash ; Observed and calculated values of and in the expression for vertical force .
toreenwich 3 The agreement between the calculated and observed curves vertical force is best seen from the graphical representation given in figs. 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 .
In the curves , the diurnal and semidiurnal variation only have been taken into .
It is seen how at Bombay , Lisbon , and Greenwich the observed curves are almost in shape with the curves calculated on the hypothesis of an external cause , if the range is reduced in a proper ratio .
The disagreement with the curves calculated on the other altelnative is complete , a maximum occurring where a minimum should occur , and vice versed .
At ) .
Petersburg , although tlJe agreement is much worse , the 1878 curve , which has been corrected for temperature , follows pretty closely the shape of the calculated curve .
The numbers from which the have been drawn are given in Table XIX .
BONBAY .
Comparison between calcuJated and observed curve of vertical force .
The abscissae denote astronomical time , the ordinates vertical force , the unit of force being C. S. Observed curve , white line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of outside force , dotted line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of inside fo , white and black line .
ESSOR A. SCHUSTER ON THE DIURNAh Fig. 8 .
Comparison between calculated and observed curve of vertical force .
abscissa denote astronomical time , the ordinates vertical force , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of outside force , dotted line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of inside force , white and black line .
VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
Fig. 9 .
ison between calculated and observed curve of vertical force .
The abscissae denote astJ onomical time , the ordinates vertical force , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curve , white line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of outside force , dotted line .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of inside force , white and black line .
Fig. 10 .
ST .
Comparison between calculated and observed curve of vertical force .
The abscissae denote astronomica ] time , the ordinates vertical force , the unit of force being C.G.S. Observed curves , white line\mdash ; I. for 1870 , II .
for 1878 .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of outside force , dotted live .
Curve calculated on hypothesis of inside force , white and black VARIATION OF STRIAL MAGNETISM .
If we , then , take it a , s proved that the primary cause of the variation comes to us from outside the Earth 's surface , we are led to consider that a varying magnetic potential must cause induced currents within the Earth , if that body is a sufficiently good conductor .
These induced currents might be cause of the apparent reduction in amplitude .
As my colleague , Professor LAMB , had given considerable attention to the problem of currents inside a conducting sphere , I consulted him , and he gave me the formulae by means of which the induced currents can be calculated .
His investigation is added as an Appendix to this paper .
V. Discussion of effects to Currents Induced in the Inside of the Earth .
I shall assume , then , for the present , that there is a periodic magnetic disturbance having its cause outside the Earth , and being probably due to electric currents in our atmosphere .
Currents will be induced within the , and we must now what the effect of these currents be , and whether they will account for the reduction in amplitude of the vertical forces which the observations show .
The varying potential can be expressed as a sum of terms of the form where is a solid harmonic of .
Professor LAMB'S formulae allow us to calculate for each value of , and for each value of , the magnetic effect due to the induced currents , on the supposition that the specific resistance of the Earth is uniform .
The forces due to these currents will have a different amplitude and a different phase from the original forces , and it is the lesultant effect which we observe in the diurnal variations .
The general effect will be to increase the horizontal ponents and to diminish the vertical component .
The difference of phase will be the same for all components , provided we give a different sign to bhe amplitude the vertical components of the inside and outside currents respectively .
Otherwise the difference of phase of the vertical component will be greater by two right angles than the difference of phase of the horizontal components .
If one of the horizontal forces and the vertical force due to the solid harmonic of positive degree are written and , the corresponding components due to the induced potential of negative degree will be of the and cb .
Table .
gives the coefficients , and for given values of the specific resistance , if .
The value of S has the same meaning as in Profess ) LAMB'S paper , and is connected with by the equation where is equal to , and is equal to 1 for the diurnal variation , and equal to 2 for the semidiurnal variation .
Table XXI .
gives the quantities for An example may render the use of the Table more intelligible .
Let the Earth , for instance , have a uniform specific , which in C.G.S. units is ] , and consider that term of the magnetic potential which , on the surface of the Earth , has the form A where is the time of t , he reyolution of the Earth .
This term alone represents fairly well the characteristic features of the diurnal variation .
Here , as , we may use Table .
The value of S COlu.esponding to the assumed resistance is 30 , and we find approximately , which means that the vertical force due to the induced currents has half the amplitude of the vertical force due to the primary currents ; also , the difference in phase is ; as the sign of the amplitude is changed , this means that the minimum of the vertical force due to induced currents takes place ot quite three hours after the of the corresponding primary force .
Similarly the horizontal force due to the inside current is only one-third of the corresponding horizontal force due to the outside potential , and here the maximuqn due to the secondary currents takes place nearly three hours after the maximum due to the secondary currents .
To get similar numbers for the semidiurnal variation we should have to put , and find , and for , because ' , and looking up in the last column we should find the Tesponding number in the first column to be 60 .
ABLE X.\mdash ; Comparison of the magnetic forces due to a system of varying electric currents outside the Earth , with the forces due to the currents induced inside the Earth .
Ratio normal forces due to secondary : primary variation .
13895 rees due to variation .
ponding VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
TABLE XXI.\mdash ; Comparison of the magnetic force due to a varying potential represented by a solid harmonic of degree 4 with the corresponding forces due to currents induced inside the Earth .
Tables .
and XXI .
cannot , however , be used to compare calculated and observed results , but form only an intermediate step .
We observe on the the resultant of the outside and inside , and we have calculated the vertical force on the assumption that the whole horizontal force is due to outside effect .
In , let represent that part of the horizontal force which is due to the outside effect , and the force in phase and amplitude which is due to the induced effect .
The observed horizontal force will be the resultant OK .
Let be the magnitude of the vertical force due to the outside currents , and the vertical force in phase and amplitude due to the induced effect .
The observed vertical force will be ON .
If we calculate the vertical force on the assumption that the resultant OK is due entirely to the outside , we should obtain a force , such that OR : OK : : .
Our calculatect of force will be OR , and our observed value ON .
We require the ratio oflengths oi these lines and the angle between them .
In the mgle ONR we know , from Table XX .
, the ratios also the angJe , Write The triangles and give us the equations ' These equations determine and , and hence the required angle ; also OR : ON In Table XXII .
the angle and the ratio ON : OR : have been calculated for able XXIII .
gives the corresponding quantities if the inducing solid harmonic is of degree 4 .
ABLE XXII.\mdash ; Comparison between resultant vertical force as regards magnitude and phase when induced currents are taken into account and vertical force Jculated on the assumption that the whole is due to an outside effect .
The inducing potential is a solid harmonic of degree 2 .
VARIATION OF RIAL MAGNETISM .
TABLE XXIII.\mdash ; Comparison between resultant vertical force , as magnitude and direction when induced currents are taken account , and vertical calculated on the ssumptio that the whole is due to an outside effect .
The inducing potential is a solid harmonic of degree 4 .
The observed amplitude of the vertical force at Lisbon is about one half of its calculated value .
If the conductivity of the Earth was such as to produce this reduction in amplitude , it is seen from TabJes XXIT .
and XXIII .
that the phase would be altered about , while in reality there is a remarkable agreement in phase .
If the conductivity is so small as to leave the resultant phase practically unaltered , as observation tends to show , the amplitude also should not be sensibly altered .
There is , therefore , no uniform conductivity of the Earth which can make the observations agree with the calculation .
Such an agreement , however , can be easily brought about , as Professor LAMB has suggested to me , if the conductivity of the inside of the Earth is larger than the conductivity of the upper layers .
It is extremely probable that this is really the case .
The bulk of the outside layer of the Earth , except in so far as it is water , is made up of material which in its ordinary condition is non-conducting ; but we know that some of the silicates begin to conduct at temperatures above 20 C. , and , generally speaking , insulators lose their insulating powers at high temperatures .
Without regard even to the quantities of metallic matter that may be stored inside the there is nothing improbable in the supposition that its conductivity increases towards the inside .
If the bulk of the observed induced effect is due to currents in a fairly conducting inner sphere , the ] ated phase would be that due to good conducting matter , and would not differ from the observed value , while the reduction in amplitude might yet be sufficient to account for the observed facts .
In order to give a better idea of the kind of conductivity which is required to produce a certain of phase , it may be stated that for the purest distilled water obtained by KOHLRAUSCH would be about .
Such water is , as is well known , a very bad conductor , and , according to our Tables , if the whole Earth was made up of matter which conducts as badly , there would be no currents in the Earth induced by the diurnal variatlon of sufficient intensity to affect our magnetic needle sensibly .
Ordinary rain water , however , has a specific resistance of about .
A conductin sphere of the same resistance would already produce a retardation in ) has of about an hour for ) diurnal variation if the solid harmonic is of degree 2 .
For salt water the ) PROFESSOR A. ON THE DIURNAL may get as low as .
A whole sphere made up of such water would very considerably reduce the amplitude of the observed vertical force , and alter the resultant ] by nearly .
The average conductivity of the Earth , as seen from these examples , must be small , although it may be considerable over limited areas .
Such limited areas would principally affect the harmonic terms of higher degrees , and we should not consequently expect for them such a good agreement between theory and observation .
Table XXII .
shows that as the resistance of the sphere ishes the retardation of the resultant phase seems to approach a constant value of This can be proved to be quite generally the case .
It follows directly from a formula given by Professor LAMB in the Appendix , and can also be seen as foJlows:\mdash ; When the conductivity is good the angle between and in fig. 11 will steadily diminish , and ultimately vanish .
OK wili ultimately coincide with , and OR with ; but the angle and will increase towards , and the sides will tend towards equality .
Two very nearly equal and very nearly opposite forces may have a resultant which is inclined by a finite angle to the forces .
To find the angle in the limit between and we deduce , in the first place , an expression for the ratio of the vertical force due to the outside effect to the vertical force due to induced currents for good conductivities .
This ratio depends , shown by Professor LAMB , on the function where and If is odd , siuh If is even , we must interchange and If is larger , so that can be neglected , compared to , and which is the ratio of the vertical forces due to the induced and inducing potential will become VARIATION OF ]STRIAL MTISM .
where , and .
Generally in the above expansion we may put therefore S-/ ; so that the ratio of the vertical forces will be ' where @2 , S-1 \mdash ; . .
, The ratio of the amplitudes , if S is large , becomes and the angle between the two vertical forces 2S The resultant of these two forces , resolved in a direction parallel to either of them , is therefore equal to the component which is at right angles , and the resultant will consequently be at an inclination of The result will not hold , of course , if conduction in the Earth 's crtlsb takes place chiefly at some distance below the surface , as in that case the vertical force due to the induced currents will not tend to become equal to the vertical force due to the primary variation .
For a bad conductivity we shall always have a resultant vertical force sensibly equal to the primary force .
If the conductivity increases , the resultant will have a different phase from the primary variation , tending towards a difference of , if the conductivity is uniform .
If the conductivity is not uniform , a maximum difference of phase will be reached , which , if the conductivity is still further increased , diminishes indefinitely .
VI .
The etic on the of the Earth .
As it seemed interesting to trace the equipotential lines on the surface of the Earth as far as they depend on the diurnal variation , I have calculated the potential from the equations [ A ] and [ B ] .
It is necessary , for this purpose , to compute the tesseral harmonics for definite points on the Earth 's surface .
It would seem most natural to choose these points , so that they lie on equidistant circles of latitudes , but as tables exist for the zonal harmonics in terms of the cosine of the colatitude , I have selected values of these cosines so that the corresponding angles should differ as nearly as possible by The values of and , for which the potential is computed on the Northern hemisphere , are given in Table XXIV .
, being the colatitude .
TABLE XXIV .
98 94 87 77 50 34 00 Symmetrical circles oflatitude were taken on the Southern hemisphere .
Taking from Mr. GLAISHER'S Table the values of corresponding to each of the above values of , we obtain the differential coefficients of zonal harmonics by a successive application of the formula The first and second differential coefficients thus calculated are given in Tables XXV .
and XXVI .
* Report of the ritish Association ' ( Sheffield .
1879 ) .
VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
oooo oooo CQCO coCQ VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL IAGNETISM .
Introducing these quantities in the equations for the potential , and .
proper account of the change of sign of in the Southern hemisphel.e , I have obtained Table XXVII .
, in which ] potentials given for 24 equidistant circles .
In order to reproduce the daily variations , we the whole system of equipotential lines to revolve round the Earth from East to West ; the time for which the potential is given is mean noon for the zero meridian .
It will be remembered that the equations for the potential have been derived from the mean summer values in the Northern , and mean winter values in the outhern h. If we to get a symmetrical potential in both hemispheres , we 1nust take the average variation for the whole year , or , what comes to the same , we in XXVII .
write down the mean values for two corresponding circles of one in each hemisphere .
This has been done in Table XXVIII .
, where the values are only given for the Northern hemisphere .
The mean equipotential lines for the year are in fig. 12 .
If we imagine the variable part of the netic force to be produced by a system of surface culrents in a sphere concentric with the , and surrounding it , we may , if the potential is known , calculate the distribution of the lines of flow .
If the magnetic surface potential is of form , when is a harmonic of degree the current function !
is given by so that the lines of flow are the same as the equipotential lines .
is no longer true when the magnetic potential is made up of a number of terms corresponding to harmonics of different degrees , for the factor will vary different terms , and the resultant current function will therefore no be proportional to the sultant magnetic potential .
In our own case , taking the mean values for the whole year , the series ) egins with , and the factor will vary , therefore , only between 5/ 3 and 2 .
We may then , as an approximation , still take the equipotential lines to give us the general form of the lines of flow .
We conclude that we may imagine the daily tion of the Earth 's magnetic force to be produced by a system of electric currents in a sphere ding the Earth , in which the lines of are represented in fig. 12 , the direction being such that at longitude East the flow is away from the equator .
*MAXWE , ' ectricity and gnetism , ' vol. 2 , TABLE XXyII .
Values of the variable part of the magnetic potential on the of the colatitude ) and 24 equidistant meridian circles , reckoned from is that of the mean summer months .
The time is Greenwich noon .
TABLE XXVIII.\mdash ; Values of the variable part of the magnetic potential on the cosine of the colatitude ) and 24 equidistant meridian circles , reckoned from is that corresponding to the mean values for the year .
The time is GreenVARIATION OF Earth 's surface for 17 latitude circles corresponding to different values of ( the Greenwich towards the East .
The period of bhe year to which the Table refers Earth 's surface for 17 latitude circles corresponding to different values of ( the Greenwich towards the East .
The period of the year to which the Table refers wich noon .
VARIATION OF TERRLSTRJAL MAGNETISM .
VII .
Concluding Remarks .
FARADAY , in the year 1850 , discussed the diurnal variation of the magnetic needle .
He showed that the changes which took place during daytime could be accounted for by supposing two magnetic poles -namely , a North pole in Southern hemisphere , and a South pole in he Northern hemisphere\mdash ; to be carried round with the Sun in our atmosphere .
A glance at fig. 13 will show that our result entirely agrees with FARADAY'S .
The proo .
that the principai part of the Earth 's etism is due to causes outside its surface would have been almost as complete in the year as it is now , if FARADAy had added the remark that , if all three components of the variation can be completely accounted for by hypothetical changes taking place outside tIJe Earth 's surface , they be accounted for by changes taking place in the inside .
I cannot agree , however , with FARADAY in the explanation which he gives of the variation .
He imagines that the solar radiation , heating up the air , produces a sufficient change in its netic permeability to account for the observed deflection of the lines of magnetic force .
The magnetic susceptibility of oxygen at the pressure ctndature is about , and for air it is smaller still .
This would give the magnetic permeability as .
If the air was entirely remoyed the change of mag.neti force would be so small that we could not detect it .
I have tried in various ways to find how a partial removal of the atmosphere as a magnetic medium could affect the needle in any appreciable way , but have failed to do so .
FARADAY suggests that the oxygen in the higher regions of the atmosphere might , owing to the greater cold , be much more magnebic than what we observe it to be .
But , on the other hand , owing the smaller density , the permeability old be diminished ; so that I do not think we are at present justified in ascribin any muterial part of the daily variation to a change of the magnetic permeability of air due to the ting effect of the Sun .
The effect of the Moon suggests a tidal action as the cause , and we may inquire whether such tidal action could produce the observed effects .
The late Professor BALFOUR STEWART has suggested that the Earth 's magnetic force might induce electric currents in the convection currents which flow in the upper regions of the atmosphere .
One difficulty of this hypothesis was removed by an experimental investigation , by means of which I have proved that the air can be thrown into a sensitive state in which small electromotive forces will produce sensible electric currents .
To bring the air into sensitive state it is only necessary to send sn electric current through it from some independent source of high potential .
It is very likely that the air in the upper regions of our atmosphere is in such a sensitive state , and it is quite possible , therefore , that the induced electric currents suggested by Professor BALFOUR exist .
The symmetry of the diurnal variation in both hemispheres shows that , if it is .510 A. It ON DIURNAL to the assumed cause , the vertical component of the magnetic force is the important ctor , that ) changes sign on crossi ng the magnetic equator .
In order electric currents should be induced could account for the observed moveof the netic needle , it is only necessary to imagine convection currents in the upper egions from East to West during certain parts of day , and from West to East at other times , Judging from the analogy of the theory of waves in shallow water , a horizontal motion of considerable velocity might be produced by a tidal action due to solar and lunar attraction .
It is true that no periodic change of the barometer been traced with certainty to a tidal action ; but I .
that a tidal wave must neyertheless exist , and that its horizontal flow might be considerable , while the changes of pressure might escape our attention .
As regards the effect of the Sun we have , indeed , a daily period of the barometer wkich is probably due to thermal effects .
It is curious and suggestive that the horizontal motion which must accompany the change in pressure isjust such as would account for the daily variation of the netic needle .
In the the principal mimmum of the barometer takes place about 3.40 o'clock in the afternoon , and the principal maximum about 9 o'clock in the mol.ning .
According to the theory of waves , there would be a horizontal movement from West to East in the afternoon , and from East to West in the morning .
The direction of the induced electric currents would be away from the equator in both hemispheres in the afternoon , and towards the equator in the morning .
This is exactly the system of currents we have been led to , starting from the observed netic variation .
The only difficulty I feel in suggesting that the cause of the dinrnal variation of the magnetic needle is the diul.nal variation of the barometer lies in the fact that it would oblige us to place the electric currents into the lower regions of the atmosphere , as these only will be much affected by the thermal radiation of the Sun .
The phase of the barometric oscillation has been found to be reversed on the top of mountains , and it would be interesting to see whether the magnetic variations show any peculiarities at great heights .
The region of the atmosphere which other considerations lead me to consider as the most sensitive to electromotive forces is that of the cirrus clouds , and I should be inclined to look to that region for a solution of the question .
The lunar actio1 ] seems , according to the researches of Mr. CHAMBERS , to be a modification of the solar action rather an independent effect .
This might be accounted for if we suppose that the conductivity of the air on the position of the Sun , while the etectromotive forces depend on the combined positions of the Sun and Moon .
Note added October 11 , 1889.\mdash ; Since writing the above I have become acquainted with recent work on the diurnal oscillation of the barometer ( ' Wien , Denkschriften , ' vol. 55 , 1889 .
) It appears from the regularity of the semidiurnal period in different altitudes and latitudes that its cause must lie in atmospheric movements in higher regions of the atmosphere .
The reversal of phase mentioned in the text is due to local effects and has nothing to do with the regular oscillation .
It seems to be exceeedingly ])robablo in the light of these researches that the daily variation of the ) gnetic needle is connected the daily oscillation of the barometer in the way described in the text .
] VARIATION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNLTTSM .
It will be interesting to follow out in future researches the field which this investigation has opened , especially in order to trace the effect of the Sunspot variation ; but for , his purpose it is absolutely necessary that derent obseryatories should follow a more ulliform plan ) reducing their observations .
It has been found by experience that if the hourly readings of the magnetic needle are collected their mean taken , that mean is different according as the disturbed days are taken into account or rejected .
In other words , the disturbances are not arly distributed , but have a daily pel.iod which is mixed up with the regular daily variation .
If we want to teparate the investigation concerning the regular variation the disturbance variation , we must adopt some plan of obtainin ) ' the one the other .
I need not here descl.ibe SABINE'S well-known method of doing this .
Grave objections have been urged against it , but it is still adopted in observatories .
A discussion of the various methods of reduction which have been } ) roposed will be found in recent orts of the British Association , and amongst them that adopted by Mr. WILD at St. Peter , burg seems to me to be the only one which can be justified on strict scientific .
It consists in selecting the curves for the quiet days , of which there are always a sufficient number in each month , and not to take account , as SABINE'S method does , of any at all during the disturbed .
We get in this way something perfectly definite , namely , the mean variation of the magnetic needle during certain specified days .
It seems to me that if the heads of different observatories could adopt some system of ation , by which the could select those days which most quiet ] over the world , and if the e are reduced for those days solely at the different stations , we should obtain a series of values for different points of the Earth which are trictly comparable with each other .
The labour of reduction , as far as I can judge , wouled thereby be seriously diminished .
The method hitherto adopted at Greenwich is very similar to that of WILD , and will not , probably , lead to results which are sensibly different .
The reduction of the observations by spherical harmonic analysis would be very simple matter according to the method which I have owed , if the results of different stations were published in a manner which would lend itself easily to the work .
The method of publication adopted at Greenwich is very convenient , and might serve as a model to other observatories .
Much labour is , however , involved in reducing tions in horizontal force and declination to variations in force towards the geographical West and North respectively .
If all observatories could publish the coefficients of the harmonic series of the elements as at Greenwich , but reduced to the instead of the gnetic co-ordinates , the ress of magnetic science would be much assisted , as every scientific investigation must take the components for its starting point .
I have tried to form an idea as to the degree of accuracy reached in the determination of such ntities as the variation of deciination ; the result is not 5 12 PROFESSOR A. SCHUSTER ON THE DIURNAL ltogether satisfactory .
Mr. WHIPPLE , in the ' British Association Report ' ( Birmingham , 1886 , page 71 ) , says : ' ' Contrasting the Kew results with those of Greenwich , we may fairly consider the diHerence to be due in some measure to instrumental causes , the construction of the etographs being at the two observatories .
The slight difference in position of the two observatories may likewise have some influence The difference amounts to about 15 per cent. , and it seems as if the question whether such a difference can be due to instrumental causes deseryes a careful examination . .
CHAMBERS , at Bombay , has found similarly that the results of the magnetographs differ from those obtained by the old netometers ; and he seems to ascribe the ditference to an " " influence of height above or below the ground level The height of the magnetometer was 6 feet above ground , and that of the magnetograph feet below ; the former gives ranges greater by 7 per cent. for the declination variation , and the difference is greater still for the horizontal force component .
That there should be a real of that magnitude in the two positiolB seems excessively unlikely , and we must conclude that at present the results given by magnetographs are to the extent of about 10 per centi .
In conclusion , we may sum up the principal results obtained in this paper as lows : 1 .
The principal part of the diurnal variation is due to causes outside the Earth 's surface , and probably to electric currents in our atmosphere .
2 .
Currents are induced in the Earth by the diurnal variation which produce a sensible effect chiefly in reducing the amplitude of the vertical component and increasing the amplitude of the horizontal components .
3 .
As regards the currents induced by the diurnal variation , the Earth does not behave as a uniformly-conducting sphere , but the upper layers must conduct less than inner layers .
4 .
The horizontal movements in the atmosphere which must accompany a tidal action of the Sun or Moon or any periodic variation of the barometer such as is actually observed would produce electric currents in the atmosphere having magnetic effects similar in character to the observed daily variatio1l .
5 .
If the variation is actually ) roduced by the suggested cause , the atmosphere must be in that sensitive state in which , according to the author 's experiments , there is no lower limit to the electromotive force producing a current .
In conclusion , the author begs to return his thanks to Mr. WILLIAM ELLIS for help given in some of the calculations , and also to his assistant , Mr. ARTHUR STANTON , for much labour bestowed on making and checking numerical calculations .
VARIATION STRIAL TISM .
On the ents in by Varicttion of Potenticl .
HORACE } THE general formulae for the currents indnced in a of uniforn ] conductivity by any electric or magnetic disturbances outside it have been in Phil. 1883 , pp. 526 et seq. I here reproduce ( with some further opments ) so much of the investigation as is required for the discussion in V. of the oing paper .
Suppose that , the origin being taken at the centre of the ] ) , external disturbing force , whose magnetic potential near the 's surface is when is a solid hal.monic of pcsitiye degree , and The corresponding values of the components of electric momentum are the time-factor being omitted here and elsewhel.e for shortness .
these values make and also give , for the components of magnetic force , the values IDCCCLXXXlX.\mdash ; .
3 If ?
the components of electric current , the equations of induced currents denotes the specific resistance .
Eliminating by means of the relations find that at all points within the sphere must satisfy the equations where The appropriate solution of these is ( kr ) .
where q denotes a solid harmonic of degree , and The total magnetic potential outside the sphere will be where is the due to the induced currents .
The values of at external points will then be , , .
VARIATION OF MAGNLTISM .
It remains to introduce conditions to be satisfied the surface of the sphere .
The continuity of electromotive force , , of equires The continuity of the netic force involves the continuity of the spacederivatives of , and , therefore , of .
Hence We thence find .
, which are equivalent to .
Hence This gives the ratio of surface potentials , and , therefore , of , due to internal and external influences respectively .
Since this ratio is " " complex there will be a difference of phase , as well as of amplitude .
The corresponding ratio of vertical forces is To interpret these results it is necessary to calculate the function .
' where , say .
For values of S we use the form .
ere , . . . .
2.4 .
C. .
The following able gives values of , for various of S. possibly be of service in other tion S TABLE XXIX .
If we write the above fraction becomes .
If we prefix the minus sign this gives the ratio of the vertical forces .
To get the ratio ( k ) of the horizontal we must multiply by .
For large values of S we may make use of the second form of .
Thus VARIATION OF MAGNLTISII .
whence sinb Here , say .
If is moderately large we may put approximately , The error thus committed is of the order .
Since the value of has six ciphers after the decimal point , this approximation is amply sufficient for , or say for S100 .
The above fraction is then It is by these methods that Tables .
and XXI .
above were calculated .
The of , the specific conductivity , given in the fifth columns , were obtained from the formula by putting cm .
, secs .
, where denotes the number of complete periods in a day , and is for the diurnal and for the semidiurnaJ variations .
As the resistance diminishes , the difference of phase tends i , o zero , and the ratio of normal forces to the value ; i.e. , the total normal force at surface tends to zero , in accordance with the theory of electromagnetic screens .
The ratio of the total vertical to the total horizontal force in any assigned direction is where denotes a linear element drawn in the proper direction on the Earth 's surface .
By means of the preceding results this can be put in the form .
The coefficient may be calculated independen tly , by a proper adaptation of the previous methods , or we deduce its .ue from the results already obtained , in .518 ON IURNAL VARIATION OF STRIAL MAGNETISM .
the manner explained by Professor SCHUSTER .
The function actually computed by Professor SCHUSTER in Tables XXII .
and XXIII .
is the ratio ' which For large values of S , i.e. for sufficiently small values of , we put , whence , keeping only the most important term in , the fraction written becomes The difference of phase therefore tends to the limit , as remarked by Professor SCHUSTER .
For S this formula gives for the reduction of amplitude the value 3 and 5 in the cases and ]

