I. " Remarks on the Anatomy of the Macgillivrayia pelagica and Cheletropis Huxleyi ( Forbes ) ; suggesting the establishment of a new genus of Gasteropoda .
" By JOHN D. MACDONALD , R.N. , Assistant-Surgeon H.M.S. Herald , Communicated by Sir W. BURNETT , K.C.B. &amp;c. Received November 23 , 1854 .
Having examined the anatomy of the Macgillivrayia pelagica and several smaller species of pelagic Gasteropoda , not exhibiting the least similarity in the character of their shells , the author found that they all presented a very close relationship to each other in the type of their respiratory organs , and in other points of structure of less importance .
The gills in every instance seemed to be fixed to the body of the animal immediately behind the head , and did not appear to be appended to the mantle , as in the Pectinibranchiata properly so called .
They were also invariably four in number , and arranged in a cruciform manner round a central point .
They were free in the rest of their extent , elongated and flattened in form , with a pointed extremity , and fringed with long flowing cilia , set in a frilled border .
They were , moreover , furnished with muscular fibres , both transverse and longitudinal , and exhibited great mobility when protruded , but lay side by side in the last whorl of the shell when retracted .
The auditory capsules , each containing a spherical otolithe , were closely applied to the inner and posterior part of the larger or anterior ganglion of the suboesophageal mass .
There were two tentacula , each bearing at the outer side of its base an eye consisting of a. globular lens with optic nerve and retinal expansion .
The foot was large and very mobile , but a vesicular float has been observed only in Macgillivrayia .
The respiratory siphon was either a simple fold of the mantle forming a temporary tube ( Cheletropis ) , or a fold whose borders were united through their whole length , leaving an aperture at the end , as in Macgillivrayia .
A lingual ribbon with well-marked rachis and pleurae occurs in all the species .
Very perfect labial plates with closely set dental points arm the mouth in some instances , and probably in all .
The little animals possessing in common the characters here described , nevertheless fabricate shells so very different as to admit of their division into well-marked genera .
The author conceives that the obvious difference between the pectinibranchiate type of respiratory organs and that observed in the group of Gasteropoda now under consideration , affords sufficient grounds for placing the latter in a distinct order by themselves ; and as illustrations of it he proceeds to give some details of the structure of the two species mentioned in the title of the paper , whose shells have been already described by the late Prof. E. Forbes , and figured in Mr. Macgillivray 's 'Narrative of the Voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake .
' In Macgillivrayia the disc of the foot is broad and connected by a narrow attachment to the body just beneath the neck ; it carries an operculum behind , and is cleft by a notch in front .
A raphe observable in the median line , as well indeed as the whole character of this part of the organ , seems to shadow forth the transformation of the single foot of the Gasteropod into the wing-like expansion of the Pteropod .
After describing the labial plates and lingual strap , the eyes and the branchiae , the author observes that the tubular siphon protrudes from the shell on the left side and seems to indicate the coexistence of a respiratory chamber with naked branchiae .
The vesicular float , like that of lanthina , noticed by Mr. Macgillivray , consists of an aggregation of vesicles varying both in number and size in different cases .
It is exceedingly delicate , and could not be found in the specimens first obtained , having probably been destroyed or detached from the foot by the force of the water running through the meshes of the net with which they were captured .
Its coexistence with an operculum shows that it is not a modification of the latter .
Of the Cheletropis Huxleyi , numerous specimens were found in Bass 's Straits and in the South Pacific , between Sydney and Lord Howe 's Island .
After giving some details respecting the shell and the foot , the aul:hor observes that the latter organ was destitute of float , at least in the specimens he obtained , but was furnished with an operculum , which , probably from its extreme thinness and smallness , had escaped the notice of Professor Forbes .
He then points out the peculiarities of the respiratory apparatus .
The portion of the mantle which forms the respiratory siphon , is short , and its opposite edges are merely in apposition , without organic union .
The branchia are of two kinds , covered and naked .
The covered gill is single but of considerable length .
It is beautifully pectinated , and fringed with long cilia , and , doubtless , represents the respiratory organ of the pectinibranchiate Gasteropoda .
The basis of this part is a long and narrow strip of a tough and fibrous material , folded upon itself into a series of loops invested with a coating of epithelium , and richly ciliated along the free border .
The naked gills are four in number , similar both in situation and character to those of Macgillivrayia .
Each gill is of an oval or elongated form , presenting a thin , frilled and corrugated border , beset with long whip-like cilia .
In the central parts muscular fibres are distinctly discernible , some disposed lengthwise and others transversely .
The lingual strap is next described , as well as two file-like triturating plates with which the mouth is furnished .
The two tentacula of each side appear as it were enclosed in one envelope , so as to form a single tactile instrument , which bears a large dark eye on its outer side near the base .
To this latter organ the tegumentary covering forms a kind of cornea , beneath which is a spherical lens resting on a mass of black pigment , both being enclosed in a little sac ; and the optic nerve , emerging from the subx oesophageal ganglion , joins the miniature globe and expands into a retina .
The author was unable to trace an opening through the pigment for the passage of light , but thinks it probable that , as in the ocelli of insects , such an aperture exists in the central part .
The auditory capsules are situated at some distance behind the eyes , and may be distinctly seen with the microscope when the surrounding parts are carefully removed with fine needles .
They are of a rounded or oval form , and each contains a beautifully transparent and highly refracting otolithe , much larger than the lens of the eye .
The paper was accompanied with drawings illustrating the principal points mentioned in the description .

