II .
" On the Curvature of the Indian Are .
" By the Venerable JOIN H. PRATT , M.A. , Archdeacon of Calcutta .
Comnunicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received November 8 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1 855 , in which the author calculates the effect which the attraction of the mounitain mass north of India has upon the plumb-line at stations in the plains on the south , he applied the deflections as correctionls to the astroniomical amplitudes , to ascertain what influence they would have upon the determination of the curvature of the Indiarn Arc of Meridiani .
The method he adopted was to compare together the two measured arcs between Kaliana and Kalianpur , and between Kalianpur and Damargida .
The calculation bronght out an ellipse of which the ellipticity is Coloiiel Everest had ( leduced by a comparison of the same arcs , but with uncorrected amplitudes , are ellipticity 1 These two values are on opposite sides of the mean ellipticity for the whole earth , from which they differ by about jths and 4ths of the mean .
In these calculations the ellipses are found which exactly accord with the measured lengths and the corrected latitudes in the one case , and in the other the latitudes uncorrected for deflection .
A more correct method has been followed by Captain A. Clarke , R.E. , in the volume of the Ordnance Survey just published by Lieut. Colonel James , R.E. Captain Clarke takes the latitudes of the three stations mentioned above , as corrected for mountain attraction by Archdeacon Pratt , and supposing the corrected latitudes as well as the elements of the mean ellipse subject to error , he determines , according to the method of least squares , the ellipse which best corresponds with the mean ellipse and with the three corrected latitudes .
The resulting ellipse depends of course upon the height attributed to the mean ellipse , which is left arbitrary , to be assigned at the end of the calculation .
In this way Captain Clarke shows that it is possible to obtain an ellipse which differs much less from the mean ellipse , and yet which makes the differences between the three latitudes calculated from the ellipse and the observed latitudes corrected for deflection , very small .
Since this calculation was made by Captain Clarke , the author communicated to the Royal Society an approximate estimate of the effect of the deficiency of matter in the ocean south of Hindostan , on the plumb-line .
On seeing Captain Clarke 's result , he felt anxious to ascertain what effect this new disturbing cause would have upon &lt; it .
The present paper contains a repetition of the calculations of Captain Clarke , with the additional corrections to the latitudes due to the defect of attraction of the ocean introduced into them .
Capt. Clarke 's result , the author finds , is thereby improved , the ellipse obtained coming out somewhat nearer to the mean ellipse , while the errors in the latitudes , which already were very small , are still further reduced .
The following are the values of the semi-axes ab ( in feet ) and of the reciprocal of the ellipticity corresponding , -I .
to the mean ellipse , as determined by Captain Clarke ; II .
to the first of the two ellipses ( corresponding to two different degrees of importance assigned to the mean ellipse ) obtained by Captain Clarke by combining the mean ellipse with the Indian Arc ; III .
to the ellipse II .
recalculated by the author , with the additional correction for oceani attraction introduced. .
1 .
' .
b : a-b .
Ie sr re G2 20926a500 208.5400 294 ll. .
e 20920328 2084652 1283 7 III.1 20919988 20846981 286'55 The residual errors of latitude at Dainargida , Kaliana , and Kalianpur , which in Captaini Clarke 's ellipse were + lI"105 , -0"f 95 , + 1-20 , are now reduced to +0ffe93 , 0"l ?
37 , +011'74 .
In conclusion .
, the author calculates the distaince of a point in the latitude of Kaliana from the cenitre of the earth in the three ellipses , and finds it to be near 7000 feet greater in the ellipses IT .
and III .
than in the mean ellipse 1 .
That deviations to such an extent as this from the mean ellipse should actually occur he thinks likely enoug , and he is not disposed to have recourse to some yet undiscovered cause to reconcile the Indian Arc with the meaic ellipse .
The occurrence of niarinie fossils in mountains and elevated regions , shows that great changes of level of the lanid relatively to the water have actually taken place ; and it seems unlikely that an extensive internal change in the state of the earth would cause an upheaval or depressioni of the laind or the water alone ; it might rather be expected that both would be affected , though uniequally .
Ihence the absolute change of distance of the land from the centre of the earth may have been much greater than the elevation relatively to the water , while the phenomena adduced indicate that eveni the latter must have beeni very great .

