1889 .
] Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron .
23 IV .
" Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron .
" By J. Hopkinson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1889 .
Several alloys have been examined , supplied to me very kindly by Mr. Riley , of the Steel Company of Scotland .
I confine myself to a brief statement of the results with the most interesting sample .
Mr. Riley informs me that this sample contains 25 per cent , of nickel .
; As the material was given to me it was non-magnetic at ordinary temperature , that is to say , the permeability was small , about T4 , and the induction was precisely proportional to the magnetising foroe .
The ring on being heated remained non-magnetic up to 700 ' C. or 800 ' C. A block of the material did not recalesce on being heated to a high temperature and being allowed to cool .
On being placed in a freezing mixture the material became magnetic at a temperature a little below freezing point .
The material was next cooled to about \#151 ; 51 ' C. , by means of solid carbonic acid , and the curve of magnetisation was ascertained , as shown in fig. 1 , corresponding to a temperature of 13 ' C. ; from this it will be seen that the ring of the material , which was previously Fig. 1 .
\#171 ; 3000 !
\#174 ; 1000 10 20 30 40 Magnetising forces .
24 Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron .
[ Dec. 12 , non-magnetic at 13 ' C. , is now decidedly magnetic at the same temperature .
On heating the material it remained magnetic until it reached a temperature of 580 ' C. At this temperature it became nonmagnetic , and , on cooling , remained non-magnetic to the ordinary temperature of the room .
Fig. 2 shows the inductions at various Fig. 2 .
temperatures , the absciss\#174 ; being temperatures for a magnetising force 6 7 , whilst fig. 3 shows the induction in terms of the temperaFig .
3 , ture to a different scale for a force of 64 .
These curves show that , for a range of temperature from somewhat below freezing to 580 ' C. , this material exists in two states , either being quite stable , the one being non-magnetic , the other magnetic .
It changes from non-magnetic to magnetic if the temperature be reduced a little below freezing ; the magnetic state of the material does not change from magnetic to nonmagnetic till the temperature is raised to 580 ' C. The same kind of thing , in a much less degree , can be seen with ordinary steel .
Over a small range this can exist in two states , but m changing its state from non-magnetic to magnetic a considerable , amount of heat is liberated , which causes a rise of temperature of the ' steel .
Whether any material quantity of heat is latent in the nickel steel I do not know .

