A Formula for expressing the Decrement of Human Life .
In a Letter addressed to Sir Edward Hyde East , Bart. M.P. F.R.S. By Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Communicated February 2 , 1826 .
Read April 19 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 281 .
] The author first observes that an opinion is generally prevalent , of a decided increase in the average duration of human life in many parts of Europe ; but he yet regards it as probable that this improvement has been much exaggerated , partly on account of the limited number of persons on whom the observations have been made , and partly from erroneous views respecting the profits of assurance companies .
He then examines the evidence on which this opinion rests , and gives a comprlarative statement of the annual average of mortality , the mean term of full life , and the mean age of mankind , according , to a great number of different authorities ; and considers that a prolongation of life to the extent of one year in eight , is a much fairer estimate than one in three , which some have maintained , even on the limited grounds of the experience on which they have reasoned .
Another mode , he observes , of easily appreciating the regularity and analogies of tables is the construction of a curve in which , the abscissa representing the age , the ordinate shall represent the corresponding decrements of life .
This he accordingly does , and its inspection he observes is sufficient to render us suspicious of the accuracy of the Carlisle tables ; while he considers a combination of these and the Northampton tables , and the London parish registers , as likely to give the fairest estimate .
After commenting on the various documents before him , the author next proposes the formula mentioned in the title , which consists of terms having respectively a preponderating influence in infancy , in youth , in middle age , and in old age .
This is followed by a series of numerical documents , and the values of the formula calculated for each year ; and the curve corre spondingf to this formula is also laid down , and its agreement with the adjusted value placed in evidence .
The author concludes with some remarks on an error fallen into by Dr. Price , depending on the periodical payment of interest ; and with a comparison of climacteric years , as taken from different tables .

