On the Magnetisation Limit of Iron .
the experiments show that the viscosity of the film of water at the -surface has a much greater effect , the heat transmitted in this case being sensibly inversely proportional to the mean viscosity of the film .
Experiments on the jacket Avater confirm this result , so that ?
equation ( 2 ) becomes :\#151 ; ( 2r)-*\#187 ; -Iog|=^ ... ... ... ..(3 ) X\gt ; 2\#151 ; n where POT is the value of P , calculated from the mean value of l(To + t ) .
According to the experimental results , the value of the coefficient is in all cases about 5 per cent , less than the value of Um thus .calculated .
" On the Magnetisation Limit of Iron .
" By Henry \\ilde , F.R.S. Received April 3 , \#151 ; Read May 13 , 1897 .
In my paper " On the Influence of Temperature upon the Magnetisation of Iron , " I described a new method of determining the magnetisation limit of magnetic substances , by Avhieh , with a single pole of an electro-magnet , a more exalted degree of magnetisation was indicated , as measured by the force of traction , than had previously been attained.* The magnetisation limit of iron , as deduced from my experiments , was 381 lbs. per sq .
inch of section , and it appeared to me at the time that the extreme limit was well within 400 lbs. per square inch .
I have recently had occasion to repeat these experiments Avith other specimens of iron of different lengths , and have increased the magnetisation limit sufficiently high to place the result on record .
Definite lengths of annealed charcoal-iron wire of circular section , O'57 inch diameter , as measured by a micrometer screw-gauge , were cut from the same piece of wire , and mounted for suspension over the electro-magnet in the manner described in my former paper .
The specimens of iron Avere submitted in succession to the action of the electro-magnet excited by a current of 40 amperes , and the force of traction was measured by the Aveight required to detach the iron Avires from the magnet , Avith the following results : # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1891 , vol. 50 .
292 On the Magnetisation Limit Number of experiment .
Length of iron wire .
Tractive force with current = 40 amperes .
Tractive force per square inch .
inch .
lbs. lbs. i 0-2 0-984 385 2 0-4 1-016 397 3 0-6 1 -059 414 4 0-8 1-074 420 5 1-0 1-078 422 6 1-2 1 -078 422 It will be seen from this table that the magnetisation of the first specimen agrees well with the result of my former experiment with similar charcoal-iron wire of the same length and .
0'05 inch diameter , the tractive force being proportional to the sectional areas of tha " wires respectively .
It will also be observed that the tractive force increases with the length of the wire up to l'O inch , beyond which no higher degree of magnetisation was obtained .
That the magnetisation limit ( 422 lbs. per sq .
inch , or 29 67 kilos , per sq .
cm .
) was virtually arrived at in these experiments was shown from the fact that , when the current transmitted round the electro-magnet was reduced from 40 to 26 amperes , the amount of the tractive force remained constant .
That the single-pole method of determining the magnetisation limit of magnetic substances compares favourably with the doublepole method was proved by the following experiment:\#151 ; .
Tiie electro-magnet employed in the previous experiments consisted of a single limb of the large magnet used in my demonstration of the indefinite increase of the magnetic and electric forces from quantities indefinitely small.* The second limb of this magnet was replaced , and both limbs were furnished with flat tapering poles having a space of 0"3 inch between them .
A piece of the same wire used in the previous experimen ts , T2 inch long , was bent into a U-form , with the inside of the limbs 0-3 inch apart , and carefully balanced over the tapered poles .
It has been shown that the same length of wire in the straight form required a weight of T078 lbs. to detach it from the electro-magnet .
It might , therefore , have been expected that the U-formed iron wire would have indicated at least double this amount , or 2-156 lbs. , whereas the tractive force obtained was only T625 lbs. Some of the diminished magnetic effect was no doubt caused by the inductive action of the tapered poles upon each other , and also through the mechanical force of separation not being applied so directly as in the experiments with the straight iron wires .
Enough , however , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' April , 1866 .
' Phil. Trans. ' 1867 .
On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
293 lias been shown to prove that no higher degree of tractive force is to be expected from the double-pole method of determining the mag-netisation limit of magnetic substances than has been obtained by the single-pole method .
May 20 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered as follows : \#151 ; Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
" By Osborne Reynolds , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering , Ovens College , and W. H. Moorby .
Received March 10 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The purpose of this research differs essentially from that of any previous research on the mechanical equivalent of heat .
In oroer to diminish the loss of heat by radiation , as well as to obtain the equivalent for water in the neighbourhood of ordinary temperatures , the ranges of temperature over which the previous dynamical measurements have been made are greatly less than the standard interval between the physically fixed points of temperature to which all thermal measui'es are referred , and so have of necessity involved the use of scales , the intervals of which depend on the constancy of the relative expansions of such substances as glass , mercury , and air .
On the other hand , in this research the object has been to determine the mechanical equivalent of the total heat necessary to raise the temperature of water over the standard interval of temperature , and thus to obtain directly the equivalent of the mean specific heat between the freezing and boiling points .
This undertaking is the result of the occurrence of circumstances which afforded an opportunity such as might not again occur .
This consisted in the facilities offered by the appliances which formed the original equipment of the Whitworth Engineering Laboratory , in 1888 , the more essential of these being an engine of 100 H.P. , working one of Professor Reynolds ' hydraulic brakes .
This brake maintains any constant moment of resistance on the engine shaft , independent of the speed , all the work done being converted into heat , which appears in the rise of temperature of a steady stream of

