104 Sir T. R Fraser and Major R H. Elliot .
[ May 10 , their insolubility , to employ the remaining members of the above periodic groups in the present investigation .
The considerable difference in ionic concentration both of acids and of bases , for a nearly equal toxic effect , shows that such effect is not hydrolytic in character , for in such a case the concentration of H+ or OH " ions would be constant for each series .
The relation between periodic grouping and lethal character , exhibited by strong alkalies , supports the view that the latter is dependent upon a chemical reaction not hydrolytic in character .
" Contributions to the Study of the Action of Sea-snake Venoms .
\#151 ; Part I. " By Sir Thomas B. Fraser , M.D. , F.RS .
, Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh , and Major E. H. Elliot , I.M.S. , on Special Duty for Snake Venom Eesearch , under the orders of the Secretary of State for India .
Eeceived May 10 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1904 .
( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) , The only important contributions to the literature of the subject with which we are acquainted , are those recently made to the Royal Society by Captain Leonard Rogers , I.M.S. Whilst acknowledging the value of these papers , we desire to state that our work was planned before we saw them , and has in all respects been independent of them .
The venoms used in this research were those of two species , of Sea-snakes :\#151 ; 1 .
That of Enhydrvna Valakadien ( a ) expressed in Madras by Dr. Pinto from the venom glands of freshly killed large snakes and sent to us in the dry state , and ( )extracted by us from the dried glands of small snakes which had been collected by the same gentleman , and , 2 .
That of Enhydris Curtus , prepared in the same way as the first-mentioned specimen , of which , however , only a small quantity was procured for us by Dr. Pinto .
The Minimum-Lethal Doses of the Various Specimens of Vmom .
1 .
( a ) Expressed Enhydrina Valakadien venom :\#151 ; JNf .
L.D. for rats = 0'00009 gramme per kilo , of body weight , for rabbits = 0'00006 " , , " \#187 ; for cats \#151 ; 0*0002 " , , \#187 ; \#187 ; 1904 .
] Study of the Action of Sea-snake Venoms .
105 The minuteness of these doses proves that sea-snake venom is the most lethal of all substances whose lethal power has been determined .
1 .
( b ) Enhydrina Valakadien venom extracted by us from dried glands:\#151 ; This proved to possess a lethality rather less than half that of the expressed venom .
2 .
Expressed Enhydris Curtus venom:\#151 ; M.L.D. for rats\#151 ; between 0*0005 and 0*0006 gramme per kilo .
The minimum-lethal doses for rabbits and cats likewise proved to be higher than those of the Enhydrina venom .
We mention this difference in lethality between Enhydrina and Enhydris venoms without laying stress on it , as we are unable to be certain that it was not due to some change which the Enhydris venom had undergone .
Comparison of the Relative Lethality of Enhydrina and Venoms for Various Animals.\#151 ; An active specimen of Cobra venom was taken , the M.L.D. 's of which for rats , rabbits , and cats had been found to be 0*0005 , 0*0006 , and 0*010 gramme respectively , per kilo , of body weight of animal .
Expressing the smallest M.L.D. in the case of each venom as the unit , we find the relative lethality for the different kinds of animals to be the following:\#151 ; Cobra venom , rats = 1 ; rabbits = 1*2 ; cats = 20 .
Enhydrina venom , rabbits = 1 ; rats = 1*5 ; cats = 3*3 .
The difference in the cat-rodent relationship is especially suggestive of a marked difference in the physiological actions of the two venoms , and the reversal of the rat-rabbit relationship is also of some significance , in the same connection .
Symptoms of Sea-snake Poisoning in Animals.\#151 ; In the main these symptoms resemble those of cobraism , but the dyspnoea is more urgent , probably because the heart is not directly affected by the venom , as it is in cobraism .
We have observed that lid-rise of the lower lid is a constant sign in Enhydrina poisoning , as it is in the course of poisoning by the venom of the Cobra and Krait .
It appears to be produced by an elastic rebound of the lid , caused by paralysis of its depressor muscle , probably central in origin , and it is closely comparable with the ptosis met with in cobraised men and monkeys .
Of the two points dealt with above , the first suggests a difference between the actions of Cobra and Enhydrina venoms , and the second a resemblance between their actions .
The Antagonism of Calmette*s Serum and Enhydrina Venom Compared with that between Cobra Venom and the same Serum.\#151 ; A sample of Calmette 's serum which proved to be definitely antagonist to Cobra 106 Sir T. R. Fraser and Major R. H. Elliot .
[ May 10 , venom , exerted only a very feeble action against the venom of Enhydris Curtus .
The venoms were mixed together and left in contact with the serum in vitro for half an hour before injection .
We thus have obtained definite evidence of a chemical difference in the composition of the two venoms , from which differences in their actions may confidently be anticipated .
Methods of Experiment Employed.\#151 ; These were:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Perfusion of the frog-ventricle with solutions of Enhydrina venom .
( 2 ) Perfusion of the vessels of pithed frogs with solutions of Enhydrina venom .
( 3 ) Kymographic experiments , in which the blood pressure , respiratory movements , etc. , were recorded and studied , both before and after the intravenous injection of Enhydrina venom .
The movements of the auricle and ventricle were also studied during life .
by removing a portion of the chest wall , and 'attaching levers to the heart by hooks and silk threads .
Venom was intravenously injected , and the results recorded and noted .
( 4 ) The state of the phrenic , sciatic and vagal nerve-ends was studied immediately on the occurrence of death in animals which had received various lethal doses of Enhydrina and Enhydris venoms .
The secondary current was used for this purpose , and the distance of the secondary from the primary coil , when a muscular contraction was observed , was noted and stated in millimetres .
( 5 ) The medulla oblongata of rabbits was exposed and Enhydrina venom was dropped upon the medulla at the region of the respiratory centre .
Respiratory movements were recorded on a drum , with the aid of a double stethograph .
Summary of Results .
( 1 ) Enhydrina venom has no direct action on the walls of the arterioles , or at least has no action in any strength of solution which could be present in the blood of a human victim of Sea-snake bite .
( 2 ) Enhydrina venom acts directly on the isolated frog ventricle , producing a tonic and stimulating effect , but this action is produced only by very strong solutions ( 1 : 5000 ) .
The heart-beat is quickened , and the result is therefore similar to that produced by very weak solutions of Cobra venom ( 1 :1,000,000 or weaker ) .
( 3 ) By experimenting with the mammalian heart exposed in , we have clearly shown that Enhydrina venom has no direct action on the vagal cardio-inhibitory centre .
This affords a striking contrast to the condition observed in Cobra poisoning .
In the latter case , the powerful tonic and stimulant action of the venom on the heart-muscle j 1904 .
] Study of the Action of Sea-snake Venoms .
107 1 ( or more probably on its nerve-ends ) is masked by equally powerful I and direct stimulation of the cardio-inhibitory centre .
In Enhydrina I poisoning , on the other hand , the complete absence of cardio-inhibition I leaves the feeble tonic action on the heart free to manifest itself , as jj appears to be displayed in several of our tracings .
We cannot otherwise explain the increase in rate of the heart-beats which we have not infrequently met with in our experiments .
( 4 ) Enhydrina venom has apparently no direct action on the vaso- motor centre .
Rogers found that on the injection of a Yiperine venom , or of the venom of the Banded Krait ( fasciatus ) , into an animal , a marked fall of blood pressure occurred , which was of central origin .
In an investigation made by one of us with Drs. Sillar and Carmichael ( of the Materia Medica Laboratory , Edinburgh ) , it was found that a similar and powerful action is exerted by the venom of the common Krait ( B. cceruleus ) .
The absence of any such action by the venom of Enhydrina is therefore worthy of note .
( 5 ) The blood-pressure curve in Enhydrina poisoning is a remarkably steady one , provided that moderate doses of venom are given and that care is taken to avoid the injection of large volumes of fluid into the blood vessels .
This is due to the fact that the blood pressure is exposed neither to the influence of the rival forces which act on the heart so strongly in cobraism , nor to the direct vasomotor changes with which we have dealt in the preceding paragraph .
( 6 ) The respiratory mechanism is that which is chiefly affected by Enhydrina venom .
If large lethal doses are employed , such as Rogers appears to have confined himself to , respiration falls rapidly , and a considerable rise of blood pressure , asphyxial in origin , may precede death .
The heart-beat then quickly slows , and blood pressure falls jj with corresponding rapidity .
Obviously , these are simply the phenomena of rapid asphyxiation .
If , however , smaller doses of venom are employed , no marked rise in blood pressure occurs .
The ordinary level is maintained until near the u occurrence of death ; the beat then slows , and the blood pressure falls .
| Here we have an expression of gradual cardiac failure , brought about 1 by slowly progressive asphyxiation .
The absence in slow Enhydrina .
poisoning of the large asphyxial rises of pressure , which are so charac-j teristic of the final stages of Cobra poisoning , is readily explained by the fact that Enhydrina venom has no direct constrictive action on the walls of the arterioles , such as Cobra venom possesses .
( 7 ) As to the part of the respiratory mechanism that is affected by j Sea-snake venom , the rapidity with which respiration is affected , both when venom is injected into a vein , and also when it is applied directly to the medulla oblongata , leaves no room to doubt that the respiratory I centre is directly acted on by the venom .
On the other hand , we have I shown that some degree of motor nerve-end paresis is .
constantly 108 Messrs. Elliot , Sillar , and Carmichael .
[ May 12 , | present in animals dying from the effects of subcutaneous injections of this venom .
We have also emphasised the fact that , in experiments \ carried out by dropping venom on the exposed medulla oblongata , we have failed to kill animals through the respiratory centre with their motor nerve-ends still undamaged .
In this respect , we have shown that Enhydrina venom differs in its action from Cobra venom .
It would therefore appear that , in poisoning with Enhydrina venom , motor nerve-end paresis plays a much greater part than it does in cobraism .
It is not difficult to suppose that a blunting of the motor nerve-end mechanism , even though far from absolute , may seriously add to the embarrassment of a centre which has already been directly and gravely enfeebled .
We hope to return to this and other points in a future communication .
In conclusion , we desire to express our sense of indebtedness to the India Office , to the Government of India , and last , but by no means least , to the Madras Government , for the assistance and facilities which they have given us in the carrying out of this research .
" On the Action of the Venom of Bungarus cceruleus ( the Common Krait ) .
" By Major .
R. H. Elliot , * I.M.S. , W. C. Sillar , M.B. , B.Sc. , Lecturer on Experimental Pharmacology , Senior Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh , and George S. Carmichael , M.B. , Ch. B. , Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Sir Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 12 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1904 .
( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) The only previously recorded work known to us on this subject was performed by Captain L. Rogers , I.M.S. , and his results were published at the beginning of the present year .
Experiments were performed by us in the Pharmacological Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh with the following results:\#151 ; I. We determined the minimum-lethal dose of the dried venom for frogs and small mammals , rats and rabbits only being chosen , as our stock of the venom was very limited .
We found that the M.L.D. for the frog was about 0'0005 of a gramme per kilo .
, for the rat 0*001 gramme per kilo .
, and for the rabbit the remarkably low dose of 0*00008 gramme per kilo .
# On special duty for Snake-venom research , under the orders of the Secretary of State for India .

