The reading of a Paper , entitled , " On Harriot 's Astronomical Observations contained in his unpublished Manuscripts belonging to the Earl of Egremont , " by Stephen Peter Rigaud , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Savilian Professor of Astronomy in the University of Oxford , ?
was commenced .
May 24 , 1832 .
DAVIES GILBERT , Esq. D.C.L. Vice President , in the Chair .
The reading of Professor Rigaud 's Paper was resumed and concluded .
In the Memoirs of the Royal and Imperial Academy of Brussels , for the year 1788 , the Baron de Zach published a paper on the pla ?
net Uranus , in a note to which he states that , in the summer of 1784 , he found in the library of Lord Egremont at Petworth , some old ma ?
nuscripts of the celebrated Thomas Harriot , which he alleges afforded proofs that he had observed the solar spots , and the satellites of Ju ?
piter before Galileo .
In the Berlin Ephemeris for 1788 , Baron Zach gave a full account of his alleged discovery , drawn up from Harriot 's papers ; an English translation of which was eireulated in this country , and has been perpetuated by its being inserted in Dr. Hutton 's Mathematical Dictionary .
The author , having been en ?
trusted by Lord Egremont with Harriot 's original papers , has ex ?
amined them with every attention he could apply to the subject , and gives in the present memoir the result of his inquiry .
The observations of Harriot on the spots on the sun , fill seventyfour half-sheets offoolscap , the first being dated December 8 , 1610 .
k These papers are in good preservation : the writing is clear , and the drawings well-defined .
Baron Zach says , that " he compared the corresponding ones with those observed by Galileo , and found betwixt them an exact agreement .
" This , the author shows , is very far from being the case , and he also brings evidence to prove that the discovery of the spots on the sun was made by Galileo atlatest in the summer of the year 1610 , and very probably in or before the month of July .
He allows , however , that Harriot 's observation in December of the same year , was the result of his own spontaneous curiosity .
The first observation made by Harriot of the satellites of Jupiter , has for date the 17th of October 1610 .
Those that follow , extend to the 26th of February 1612 : they are clearly written out on thirteen half-sheets of foolscap .
But , even by the statement of Baron Zach , Galileo discovered them on the 7th of January 1610 ; that is , nearly eight months before Harriot .
The author has detected many other material inaccuracies in the account given to the world by Baron Zach of Harriot 's observations .
He concludes , however , by observing that Harriot ought not to be deprived of the credit which is justly due to him , because a greater share has by some persons been claimed for him than he is justly entitled to .
Fle himself made no pretensions to priority in the discoveries in question .

