124 Mr. J. Of .
Grenfell [ June 15 , VIII .
" On Supersaturated Saline Solutions/ - ' By J. G. Gkenfell , B.A. , F.G.S. Communicated by C. Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1876 .
In making experiments on the sensitiveness of supersaturated solutions to air and greasy surfaces , I was much annoyed by the solutions so frequently crystallizing on the removal of the cotton-wool , as this necessitated boiling the flask again and waiting till it was cool .
I noticed that frequently part of the cotton-wool adhered to the mouth of the flask ; and it struck me that in removing this some fibres must get detached and fall in , carrying with them in all probability crystals of the salt .
I soon convinced myself that this was the case , and that cottonwool is perhaps the worst material that could be chosen for covering these solutions .
I now always use paper or tinfoil ; and I find that these can be removed many times from the same solution without inducing crystallization .
I then found that even the most sensitive solutions could be taken up in a clean glass tube and dropped on a clean glass plate without crystallizing ; and that they will remain liquid exposed to the air for a very long time , often , in fact , till they dry up by evaporation in modified forms .
Twenty drops on a plate give twenty experiments on the effect of air , clean and unclean surfaces , and evaporation ; then the plate is cleaned , and more drops are taken from the original solution till this is used up .
The trouble of boiling is thus reduced to a minimum , and the drops can be put upon all kinds of surfaces to test their activity .
The slow growth of the modified salts can be watched for hours ; and their forms are sometimes peculiar .
Thus sulphate of soda often gives a single , square , flat pyramid , or a broad well-shaped prism , or occasionally small oetahedra round the edge of the drop .
The pyramids and prisms change to opaque white when touched , and are apparently the 7-atom salt ; the octahedra do not change , and are evidently the anhydrous salt .
This fact is interesting , from its supporting the view that it is the anhydrous salt which is in solution .
Or , again , a plate with drops may be dried over calcium chloride ; and this sometimes modifies the results , as in the case of ammonia alum .
This salt , when allowed to evaporate in air , generally forms a shining semitransparent film of greenish colour with a depression at the top , in which is often a circular opening , while inside small globular concretions of a dull , opaque , milky white colour are formed ; these will remain moist inside for a couple of days or more .
When touched with the normal salt , the whole drop becomes brilliant opaque white , quite dry , and apparently increases in volume , as the crust often breaks up and curls outwrards .
This modified salt is apparently new .
.1 put some drops over calcium chloride : no film was formed , but the drops crystallized very slowly in 1876 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
125 the globular forms mixed with little , clear , flat , very thin pointed plates which reminded me much of a particular form of aluminium sulphate .
When dry all the drops were brilliant opaque white , and retained a good deal of water .
Potash alum forms similar films and globular masses .
The mother-liquor of the ammonia alum sometimes slowly deposits short , fine , silky needles with a faint milky tinge and small globular masses .
I have only recently adopted the method of using drops , and have not much leisure for working ; but the field is so wide , and the results already obtained have such an important bearing on the theory of the crystallization of these solutions , that I have ventured to put them forward in their present incomplete state .
The most commonly received theory is that of which M. de Gernez is the most prominent advocate\#151 ; that only a crystal of the same salt causes crystallization , and that these are introduced by the air , which is a vast storehouse of crystals of all kinds .
The following experiments seem to support the crystal theory ; but at the same time they clearly show that the quantity of salts present in the atmosphere is indefinitely less than we have hitherto been led to suppose , and , in fact , they bring that quantity down within the limits of ordinary probability .
1 .
Put drops of a very strong solution of sulphate of soda on a plate on my laboratory table ; waved a newspaper over them for some time , producing a strong current of air : most of them did not crystallize , and one slowly dried up in octahedra .
I have repeatedly of late boiled sulphuric acid in the laboratory , so that there can be no lack of sodium sulphate in the dust .
2 .
Drew a strong current of air over drops of sodium sulphate in a glass tube : inactive .
3 .
Drops of sodium sulphate put upon the leaves of many plants in my garden .
They slowly evaporated , giving the 7-atom salt .
The leaves were covered with dust , as the garden opens on to a road , and the weather has been hot and dry ; we are not far from Bristol , so we might expect to find sulphates .
4 .
Carried sodium sulphate to an upper room ; drops on the wash-hand stand , on the window-sill inside and out , on the iron bars outside : all inactive .
Washed my hands and spread a drop with the finger on the window-sill , inside : inactive .
Three drops crystallized on the mantlepiece , and one on the window-sill .
Several drops on the window-frame evaporated as 7-atom salt .
5 .
Potash alum on a window-sill outside gave a modified film .
6 .
Sodium acetate put upon the cork of a large bottle which had stood for two years untouched in my laboratory .
The drops were quite thick with dust , but remained liquid for more than 24 hours .
7 .
Other drops of the same put on the floor of the laboratory , on the 126 Mr. J. G. Grenfell on [ June 15 , dusty corners of the shelves , on paper , on every place and kind of surface I could find : remained liquid in all cases .
8 .
Spread a number of drops of the same on a glass plate , covering nearly the whole of it .
Made about half crystallize .
Left them exposed for three days ; they remained liquid , though the normal salt effloresces slightly .
9 .
Ammonia alum : many drops on a glass plate ; they formed films by evaporation ; made a good many crystallize , when they broke open , early in the day : carried them out in a high wind to the house of a neighbour , and brought them back ; then late at night put a number of fresh drops on the plate , and several of them remained liquid all night .
10 .
Sodium carbonate is not affected by any surface in my laboratory .
I have spread a drop over a dirty glass plate so as to cover a good many square inches , and it slowly evaporated , giving crystals .
Drops on the floor , shelves , bottles , \amp ; c. of the laboratory invariably remain liquid .
I could give many other instances , but these are sufficient to show that the air does not ordinarily contain these salts , and that it does not readily catch them up and deposit them on all kinds of surfaces ; and yet these salts are remarkably sensitive to crystals of the same kind .
The effect of using cotton-wool is a good example of this .
Another is this:\#151 ; Touched a crystallized drop of sodium acetate with a pin ; passed the pin repeatedly through my coat : active at once .
After touching a crystal the finger needs to be washed carefully .
Again , sodium sulphate crystallizes almost invariably on any dirty surface in my laboratory , and ammonia alum generally .
Even the sodium acetate crystallizes at times when I am at work with the same salt close by .
Sodium sulphate crystallizes generally on a clean plate exposed in my laboratory as 10-atom salt , whilst if protected by an inverted beaker it dries up by evaporation , forming the modified salt .
So , again , I have had two drops of sodium sulphate liquid all night , and both crystallize within ten minutes of my entering the room in the morning .
In my bedroom , however , I left a test-tube containing this solution open all night with the pipette on the mantlepiece .
In the morning the solution had not crystallized , while the end of the pipette was covered with a white incrustation , which was inactive in the liquid .
The incrustation was again left to dry up , and then contained plenty of water , being evidently the 7-atom salt .
Eor sodium acetate and carbonate it is quite useless to have any cover on the flask or test-tube which contains them , and also for the sulphate in an ordinary room .
Care must be taken that crystals are not formed near the mouth of the tube , so as to fall in ; but that is the only precaution necessary .
Carbonate of soda by evaporation becomes oily like sodium and potassium acetates .
I have not yet investigated the composition of the films and crystals which these solutions deposit .
Normal sodium acetate when heated leaves a white mass which deli- 1876 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
127 quesces , forming a strongly supersaturated solution .
The anhydrous sulphate also forms a supersaturated solution when added to water , as De Coppet pointed out .
I touched a drop of the acetate with the point of a penknife ; a little drop crystallized on the penknife , but the drop itself did not .
I then repeatedly touched the surface of the drop rapidly with the solidified part and obtained a little rod , formed of separate layers and nearly \#163 ; inch long .
At last the rod broke in the drop , which instantly crystallized .
I have repeated this with carbonate of soda .
The fact is interesting as showing how very local the crystallizing force is .
Faraday had an idea that this force might possibly be transferred by wires ; but I have poured out part of a solution which was crystallizing into a test-tube , where it remained supersaturated .
Professor Tomlinson has long maintained with great ingenuity the theory that the cause of crystallization in these solutions is adhesion .
To a surface covered with a film of greasy matter the salt adheres , while the liquid does not , and therefore separation follows .
I do not think that theory can be sustained in the presence of the following facts:\#151 ; 1 .
Rubbed the finger on the palm of the hand , and took up solution of alum from a drop , and deposited on another part of the same plate : inactive .
2 .
Rubbed oil on the palm of the hand , and repeated : again inactive .
3 .
Smeared oil over a glass plate : inactive to drops of alum .
4 .
Rubbed oil on the finger ; took up some sodium carbonate , and rubbed it hard on the plate : inactive .
5 .
Repeated this with sodium acetate .
The mere fact , however , that the salts are , as a rule , perfectly insensible to every kind of surface , wood , paint , paper , glass , and dust of all kinds , seems to me fatal to this theory .
A solution of one part of normal sodium sulphate in about six of sulphuric acid possesses some curious properties .
This solution , which sets quite firm , can be kept for a week in an open beaker , so that the air apparently has no crystals to introduce ; and yet when dropped on to a dirty surface in my laboratory it more often crystallizes than not .
It is thus much more sensitive than an aqueous solution of sodium carbonate or acetate .
The crystals are apparently a hydrate of the hyperacid salt Nall3 ( S04)2 ; and it is almost inconceivable that the dust should contain crystals of this salt .
It is extremely deliquescent , and the excess of acid should certainly be taken up by the dust , and very often by the surface itself .
The solution sometimes crystallizes suddenly in the test-tube as though something had fallen in .
The crystallized drops will not stand exposure to air for more than 30 minutes or so .
Hence , although there is plenty of sulphuric acid in my laboratory , where I have often heated this solution , 1 find it very hard to believe that the salt exists in this form Mr. J. G. Grenfell on [ June 15 , in any part of the room .
The notmal salt and the anhydrous salt are without action on the solution .
It crystallizes in a test-tube in fine stellate masses , with projecting points on all sides , as alum sometimes does ; these ultimately coalesce .
These crystals are composed of very fine parallel fibres like ferns , and are opaque white .
It sometimes sets in long fibres , radiating from different points like aluminium sulphate .
Owing to the fineness of the fibres it would be very difficult to free them from the mother-liquor .
My reason for believing them to be a hydrate is this :\#151 ; In a beaker this solution gradually deposits clear crystals , varying from very fine needles to rhombic plates , prisms , and short , nearly globular , highly modified forms .
These are formed near the top , and may perhaps be different hydrates .
They are formed , however , at the same time , and at present I believe them all to be the hyperacid salt .
Similar ones are formed by putting the normal salt in the 6 to 1 solution , and this remains liquid , sometimes dissolving the crystals .
An opaque amorphous mass is formed at the same time , which appears to be hydrated , but it also is inactive .
A mixture of two parts of acid to one of salt in a flask , when boiled to get rid of all water , sets firmly in a clear mass , in which the opaque variety makes no change .
Then if a little water is added the salt turns opaque white wherever the water reaches ; and this is entirely absorbed , the cake remaining quite dry .
If this is again melted it deposits clear prisms , leaving a little mother-liquor ; but the opaque variety when introduced from the 6 to 1 solution causes the whole mass to set firmly opaque white and become quite dry .
The opacity spreads slowly , and a kind of beard of fine crystals can sometimes be seen growing round the prisms at the edge .
Lovely foliated films are often formed at the same time .
The clear crystals are inactive in the 6 to 1 solution , while the opaque is active ; and this is a clear proof of their identity .
Solutions of intermediate strength between 2 to 1 and 6 to 1 often deposit in flasks the whole excess in clear crystals , which are sometimes inactive in the 6 to 1 in a test-tube .
It is almost impossible to obtain these solutions supersaturated in flasks , though it may be done with the utmost facility in test-tubes .
Out of many trials with one flask I only succeeded once by leaving it to cool on the sand-bath .
In a test-tube they give the same forms as the 6 to 1 .
The variety of the forms in which these solutions crystallize is truly astonishing , according to the proportion of acid and salt , amount of water , and the temperature .
A flask once gave the most exquisite little , flat , open flakes closely resembling snow-flakes ; but I have not been able to reproduce them .
In short the relations of these two substances to each other want working out thoroughly .
A certain amount of acid added to the salt which is in excess gives a thin liquid , which will not crystallize , and a little fine white powder , the anhydrous salt .
Two drops of acid in a test-tube half-full of solution cause drops to evaporate 1876 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
129 on a plate in octahedra ; and when the anhydrous is thrown down on heating the test-tube locally after crystallizing , it is redissolved , leaving , however , well-marked octahedra just before it all disappears .
The most curious property , however , of the 6 to 1 solution is this :\#151 ; On a clean glass plate it can be spread out into a thin covering of the plate with the handle of a tooth-brush ; then with the end of a glass rod scratch a letter hard on the plate , and the letter will come out at once in slowly growing crystals .
The effect is certain with the right proportions , and is most striking , as a plate of any size can be used .
Scratching has the same effect when the solution is placed on gold or copper , but not on platinum foil , lead foil , bone , gutta percha , or any soft substance .
The effect is of course analogous to that of scratching on the ammonio-magnesic phosphate and on soda water in a clean tumbler .
Mr. Tomlinson explains these by supposing that a partial vacuum is formed into which the salt and gas separate .
I confess it seems to me more probable that the result is due to vibration .
With the same solution of sodium sulphate in acid , but of different strength , scratching is inactive , and I have tried it in vain on many aqueous solutions .
I cannot see why the vacuum should not act equally on all ; but it is easy to understand how the molecular vibrations of one unstable system should be affected by a particular set of vibrations , whilst those of another system should not .
The results obtained thus far , then , are:\#151 ; 1 .
Exposure to air and dust has no effect on some supersaturated solutions .
2 .
The sulphates are the most sensitive .
Exposure of a clean glass plate for half an hour to the air of my laboratory caused nearly all the drops of sodium sulphate put upon it to crystallize at once , whilst the same plate recently cleaned is quite inactive .
3 .
Even the sulphates are unaffected by the dust of the open air and generally of ordinary rooms .
4 .
Anhydrous salts or modified salts , sometimes new , are produced by the spontaneous evaporation of the solutions in drops .
5 .
Drops can be rapidly touched on their surface with crystals of the same salt without crystallizing .
6 .
Greasy surfaces , whether films or lenses , have no effect .
7 .
The shape of the vessel has sometimes a material influence on the possibility of obtaining a supersaturated solution .
8 .
Air and dirty surfaces are active on salts which apparently cannot exist in air .
9 .
Scratching a hard surface will cause a particular solution to crystallize .
The crystal theory , modified as it now must be , seems on the whole the best explanation of the phenomena .
The case of the hyperacid sodium sulphate , however , remains to be explained .
If the crystal 130 On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ June 15 , theory is true , the order of sensitiveness of the solutions should be the order of comparative rarity of the salts ; and this remains to be proved .
As to the cause of supersaturation , a good many facts seem to show that it is the anhydrous salt which enters into solution .
The lower hydrates seem to be first formed , as in the case of sodium sulphate and the alums .
In the case of the hyperacid sodium sulphate with two parts acid to one of salt , repeatedly boiled , it seems to be the anhydrous salt which is first deposited .
When the aqueous solutions of sodium sulphate and the alums are made to crystallize , the modified salts become opaque white , while the hyperacid salt remains unchanged , and can be obtained unchanged by heating the opaque variety from the top so as to dissolve this , but not the anhydrous .
Against the theory that it is the anhydrous sodium sulphate in solution at low temperatures must be set the following fact .
Lowel , in his Tables of the solubility of the three forms of sodium sulphate , which are found in all our text-books , gives 412 parts of salt to 100 of water as the maximum solubility of the 10-atom salt ; and this is the highest number for any of the three kinds .
Now I have dissolved 600 parts of 10-atom salt in 100 of water at 37 ' C. without throwing down a trace of anhydrous .
I then warmed it : at 45 ' a doubtful trace of anhydrous ; at 51 ' very few ; at 60 ' still very few ; at 67 ' about as much as would lie on a little-finger nail ; at 75 ' eight or ten times as much , the liquid nearly opaque ; at 80 ' a large quantity ; boiled , the salt thickly covered the bottom of a large flask .
Now here the solution at 60 ' practically retained the whole of the 6 oz. of salt to 1 of water , while according to Lowel it should have retained only 2| oz. Then between 70 ' and 80 ' a sudden change takes place , and a large quantity is thrown down .
This agrees so far with Lo wel 's Table , as , according to him , at 84 ' the whole of the excess was practically thrown down .
This looks very much like dissociation taking place at that temperature ; and that would involve the supposition that it was the 10-atom salt in solution before .
The difference in our results springs from the different modes of working .
Lowel always maintained a large excess of anhydrous present , whilst I added the salt in small portions , carefully avoiding throwing down any anhydrous .
This is pretty easily done by keeping up a very rapid motion so as to prevent the liquid from getting heated too much at any point .
It seems to me that in any case , as the six ounces fairly dissolved , the solubility of the 10-atom salt should be given in those proportions .
Further experiments would , I have no doubt , give still higher figures .
Lv conclusion , I would remark that if the crystal theory of these solutions be accepted we have a test of great delicacy in these drops for the presence of the salts .
Interesting experiments might be made as 1876 .
] Rev. S. Haugliton on Law of Fatigue .
to the power of air to disseminate crystals of a salt thrown into it in fine powder .
De Coppet has already remarked that the mass of a solution exerts some influence on its crystallization , and I have shown that the form of the vessel also has a decided effect .
The effect again of different vibrations on different solutions is worth trying , as there seems to be no reason why the hyperacid sodium salt should be an exceptional case .
A good deal of work has yet to be done before we arrive at a satisfactory explanation of these obscure phenomena .
IX .
" On some Elementary Principles in Animal Mechanics.\#151 ; No. VIII .
The Law of Fatigue .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haugh-ton , M.D. ( Dubl .
) , D.C.L. ( Oxon .
) , F.RS .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin .
In my last paper ( No. VII .
) I illustrated the Law of Fatigue by experiments made in lifting weights varying in amount , without rest , at a fixed rate of motion ; I shall now illustrate the Law by experiments made in lifting a fixed weight at varying rates of motion , without rest , as before .
Law of Fatigue .
" When the same muscle ( or group of ) is kept constant action until fatigue sets in , the total work done multiplied by the rate of work is constant .
" The following experiments were made during the last six months by Dr. Macalister and myself :\#151 ; A pair of 10-lb .
dumbbells , held one in each hand , were raised simultaneously from the vertical to the horizontal position , and again lowered , at a rate regulated by a metronome made for the purpose .
No rest was allowed at the beginning or end of the motion , which took place as before , under the following conditions , viz. : \#151 ; 1 .
To keep time with the metronome .
2 .
To raise the weights in the transverse plane .
3 .
To supinate the hands .
4 .
To abstain from all bending of the knees or spinal column .
5 .
The experimenter not to count the lifts .
The experiments were made at intervals never less than 24 hours , so as to avoid all risk of the muscles becoming trained ; and on each occasion the weights were lifted until it became impossible to effect another lift , without violating condition No. 4 , indicating that other muscles were called in , to aid the shoulder-muscles already worn out .
The following results were obtained , the exact weight of each dumbbell being 9'75 lbs.

