71 1878 .
] Films under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
n+rn+p___ or it \#151 ; -\#151 ; \#151 ; s to 2 A ( s\#151 ; m)A(s\#151 ; \#171 ; -)A(s\#151 ; p ) 2s -4 " 1 A(s ) where as above 18 5 / 1\ 1.3.5------(2w\#151 ; 1)_0\#187 ; 2 ' 2 ' 2 V 2/ A(m ) \#151 ; i.a.3 .
T 77m ' 1.2.3 ... m It is clear that , in order that this integral may be finite , no one of the quantities m , n , and p must be greater than the sum of the other two , and that m+n+p must be an even integer .
I learn from Mr. Ferrers that , in the course of the year 1874 , he likewise obtained the expression for the product of two Legendre 's coefficients , by a method very similar to mine .
In his work on " Spherical Harmonics , " recently published , he gives , without proof , the above result for the value of the definite integral I VmPnPpdp .
IV .
" Experiments on the Colours shown by thin liquid Filins under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
" By Sedley Taylor , M.A. , late Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. G-laisher , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1877 .
( Plates 5 and 6 .
) Professor Helmholtz remarks , at page 603 of the fourth edition of his " Tonempfindungen , " that a film of soapsuds and glycerine forms , when caused to occupy the orifice of one of his " resonators , an extremely sensitive means by which to make visible the vibrations of the air within its cavity .
While I was engaged in verifying this observation , my notice was attracted to the parallel bands of colour which traversed the film , and it occurred to me to examine whether the forms of these bands were affected by the sonorous vibrations which agitated the film .
A few rough trials having convinced me that they were so affected , I at once proceeded to submit the phenomena which presented themselves to a closer examination .
Having caused a film to adhere to the circular aperture of a Helmholtz resonator , and allowed the fluid to drain off until the interference-colours became visible , I set the resonator , nipple downwards , in a stand , so that the film was exactly horizontal , and then stroked with a resined bow a tuning-fork of the same pitch mounted on its resonance 72 Mr. S. Taylor on Colours shown by thin liquid [ Jan. 31 , box and placed near the resonator .
With a tenacious film and uniform bowing , this resulted in the formation of a fixed figure , consisting of coloured bands , straight or curved , symmetrically arranged , and generally accompanied by one or more colour-vortices rotating in opposite directions .
A single sweep of the bow usually sufficed to call out such a figure from a previous state of colour-chaos , and , when it was once established , careful bowing would keep it fairly steady for some little time .
While , however , its form remained thus constant , its colours underwent a progressive series of changes as the thickness of the film gradually diminished .
Presently there would come a complete break-up of the figure , often accompanied by a violent rotation of the whole film , after which a different figure , generally of a simpler form , would establish itself , to be in its turn , provided the film only held out long euough , replaced by another and still more simple figure .
Sometimes , but much less frequently , the changes of form occurred without a separating interval of disorder , the incoming figure supplanting its predecessor with kaleidoscopic abruptness .
The most interesting feature of these figures was their stationary colour-vortices , arranged pairwise , and churning round and round with a velocity which seemed limited only by the loudness of the sound at command , and by the capacity of the film for bearing the strain put upon it .
The fixed bands , viewed at any one instant , mostly presented a surprising degree of complexity , with entire symmetry in the arrangement both of form and of vividly contrasting colour .
The general efEect may , perhaps , be compared to that of an elaborate " set-piece " of fireworks , in which turbines of coloured flame play a conspicuous part .
But the great charm of the experiment lay in watching the successive changes of form and hue which , beautiful from the very outset , became , as the film neared its moment of dissolution , surpassingly gorgeous .
It would , I think , be difficult to point to a more splendid series of phenomena in the whole range of physical optics .
To give anything like a complete representation of the colour-appearances observed would severely tax the utmost resources of pictorial art .
The illustrations* appended to this paper are meant only to convey a general notion of the phenomena which presented themselves .
The memoranda for them were carefully taken down during actual observation of the experiments , so that , in their broader features , the figures given may be safely depended on .
Minute accuracy of detail could not , in dealing with such wayward phenomena , be secured , except by a greater expenditure of time than was feasible .
I propose to make a few remarks on some of the colour-figures produced by the mode of experimenting described above .
Grentle bowing , and a film not too thin , usually called out fig. 1 , in * Drawn by Mr. Daniel Wood , Master of the Cambridge School of Art , who most kindly placed his skill and scanty leisure at my disposal .
1878 .
] Films under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
73 which bright concentric rings contrasted with a differently tinted ground , while the whole was surrounded by a margin of mixed colours in an unorganised condition .
Stronger bowing , or the progressive thinning of the film , would then establish fig. 2 , the most typical and persistent of the whole series .
Here concentric circular bands were enclosed by others approximately square , and these again , together with four sets of irregularly flattened ovals symmetrically disposed , by other square bands , inclined at 45 ' to the former ones .
, Outside the latter were four pairs of colour-vortices , with stationary tadpole-shaped nuclei , rotating in the alternate directions shown by the arrows .
Nearly the whole space included between the outer square and the edge of the film was occupied by colours whirling in circular or slightly elliptic orbits .
.The contrast between the fixed and moving portions of this figure was always extremely striking and beautiful .
In fig. 3 , a set of fixed concentric rings separated adjacent pairs of vortices .
Figs. 4 and 5 presented a pentagonal arrangement with five pairs of vortices .
The dotted space in the latter figure appeared speckled over with minute air-bubbles .
Fig. 6 belonged to a less regular class of forms .
Fig. 7 was only once observed .
Its central rings were enclosed in a series of triangular bands , outside which were three sets of flattened ovals similar to those in fig. 2 , but each containing a single vortex rotating about a nucleus .
Fig. 8 usually showed itself only when the thinning of the film was far advanced .
There was a flow of colour along the dotted lines in the direction of the arrow , which subsequently divided into two streams , and , after passing outside the two sets of flattened ovals and through the channels separating them from a third irregular crescentshaped series of bands , united again opposite the protuberance in the concavity of the latter , and went on performing the same circuit .
When the film had become excessively thin , this figure frequently showed nothing but the two tadpole nuclei , with an oval vortex about each , whose longer diameter was not much less than that of the film itself .
In all the preceding figures the axis of symmetry was evidently determined by the direction in which the sonorous vibrations reached the film .
The results which have been as yet described were obtained from films clinging to the circular orifice of a resonator .
A simpler mode of proceeding is to form the film on an aperture cut in a piece of cardboard or thin sheet of metal , and place this upon the open end of a resonance-box , into which its appropriate tuning-fork has been previously screwed .
The box is , of course , to be held steady , with its opening horizontal , while the fork is thrown into vibration .
By 74 Mr. S. Taylor on Colours shown by thin liquid [ Jan. 31 , operating in this manner with apertures of various shapes , I obtained a large number of distinct figures : a few of the least complex have been selected for illustration .
In figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , the aperture used was an equilateral triangle ; in figs. 12 , 13 , 14 , a square .
The general character of these results will , after the explanations already given , be readily understood on inspection of the diagrams .
Their axis of symmetry depended on the position of the film with reference to that of the tuning-fork .
When larger apertures , or a fork and box of higher pitch , were used , the resulting figures became rapidly more complex , and forms were readily obtained in which the whole film was covered with an uniform pattern consisting of some single figure analogous to one of those already- described repeated over and over again .
With very acute sounds the separate figures became too small for recognition and too numerous for counting .
The resonance of an air-cavity is , as is well known , not limited to supporting a note of one single degree of pitch , but can also reinforce other notes , provided they are not too far distant from its proper or fundamental tone .
It was therefore to be .
expected that colour-figures could be obtained from a film in the mouth of a resonator by employing sounds other than that to which its cavity was tuned .
In putting this to the test of experiment I found it convenient to replace the sounds of mounted tuning-forks by those of my own voice .
The film , formed as at first in the orifice of a resonator , showed itself sensitive to very slight differences of pitch .
When the note sung was somewhere in the neighbourhood of the resonator 's proper tone , the smallest sharpening or flattening which my voice could produce led to an instantaneous and unmistakable change of figure .
Moreover , the limits of pitch on either side of the resonator 's own note , within which permanent figures could be obtained , were considerably wider than those between which audible reinforcement by the resonator itself occurred .
In order to test the capacity of two figures corresponding to tones of different pitch for coalescing into a regular resultant-form , I placed a film symmetrically with respect to the open ends of two resonance-boxes belonging to forks forming consonant intervals with each other .
By exciting either fork separately a steady figure was obtained , but the coexistence of their sounds caused an immediate tumultuous movement from which no permanent joint form emerged .
There seemed to be an absolute incompatibility between the two figures which made all compromise impossible .
Desirous of ascertaining whether this repugnance extended to the case of sounds all but identical in pitch , I used a pair of unison forks , one of which had been slightly flattened so as to beat about twice per second with its fellow .
Some very interesting phenomena were the result .
The fixed rV'tfC'.-iRoy* So\amp ; .
27 .
.TouyZ Touytor\ Fig. 8 .
Proc. RoySac .
Vol.21.PL.6 .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 11 .
Fig. 13 W.West k C ' 11th .
1878.1 Films under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
portions of the approximately identical figures due to either fork by itself , took up , while both were sounding , a swaying movement about their mean position ; one complete oscillation of figure synchronizing exactly with each beat* heard .
The resonance-boxes had , in this experiment , been placed with their openings exactly opposite each other , and the film , which was rectangular in shape , midway between , but in a horizontal plane slightly above them .
The swaying motion was , under these circumstances , on the whole rectilinear , as though each fork alternately gave the entire figure a pull in its own direction .
The behaviour of the vortices was still more remarkable .
With vigorous and equal bowing they rotated several times in one direction during the first half of each beat , and the same number of times in the opposite direction during the second half of it .
If , instead of occupying the relative positions above described , in which the forks when sounding singly gave rise to antagonistic vortices , they were both placed on one side of the film , the result was rotation during one halfbeat and inaction during the next , followed again by similar alternations , but the direction of rotation remaining constant throughout .
In this case the vortices moved most rapidly during the maximum and rested during the minimum of intensity .
But in others it was not so , and I even observed instances where in one part of the figure the rotation coincided with the maximum and the quiescence with the minimum , while at another part of it the exactly contrary state of things prevailed .
In every experiment hitherto described the film was either acted on by the resonance of a spherical air-cavity , which practically reinforces only the fundamental tone of a compound sound in unison with it ; or else the vibrations employed were exclusively those of a mounted tuning-fork which follow the pendulum law .
Hence no other kind of movement was transmitted save that which gives rise to what Helmholtz calls a " simple tone .
" In order to examine the effects produced by composite sounds , it was desirable to let their vibrations act on a film unconnected with any resonant cavity .
Bor this purpose one end of a caoutchouc tube of large bore was fitted into a metal ring fixed in a horizontal plane on which the film-bearing discs could be placed- Notes of the human voice , of tuning forks , organ pipes , \amp ; c. , being sounded into the tube , either directly or through a funnel in the shape of an ordinary ear-trumpet , their effects on films of various forms and sizes could be conveniently observed .
A very wide field for research was thus opened up , which I do not propose to enter upon here beyond simply mentioning one result obtained in this manner which possesses an independent interest .
When two notes , identical in pitch and * The absence of an English equivalent for the German Schwebung , which denotes the whole phenomena from one maximum of intensity ( ) to the next , is most inconvenient , and makes itself very perceptible here .
76 Mr. G. M. Whipple on [ Feb. 7 .
loudness , but differing markedly in what is called quality or timbre , were alternately sounded , two perfectly distinct figures were obtained , each presenting itself again and again for many alternations the instant its own note was sounded , and remaining constant until that note ceased .
By this apparatus , therefore , permanent pictures of the relative quality of musical sounds may be secured .
I content myself here with a description of the phenomena I have observed , and make no attempt at determining the mechanical conditions under which they occur .
It may , however , be worth while to remark that the most striking feature of the figures above described , the vortices , can be exactly reproduced with the caoutchouc tube apparatus by gently sucking a little air through it , taking care that the whole opening of the tube is not in simultaneous contact with the lips , and that its other end is not completely closed by the disc and film .
Before concluding I wish to draw attention to some allied phenomena described by Mr. E. B. Tylor in " Nature , " for May , 1877 , p. 12 .
Distinct patterns were ' obtained by him , but it would appear from the directions he gives for producing " a film more free from interference-colours , so as to display the vibration-figures on an almost clear ground ' ' that no permanent colour-patterns are in question in his letter .
He speaks indeed of " the gorgeous scenic effect of the masses of prismatic colour whirled hither and thither by the musical vibrations , " but of nothing more fixed and regular .
The mode of experimenting adopted by him on that occasion suggested the third form of apparatus described in the present paper .
February 7 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. u On the Comparison of the Standard Barometers of the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , and the Kew Observatory .
" By G. M. Whipple , B.Sc. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
Communicated by order of the Kew Committee , Warren De La Rue , F.R.S. , Vice-Chairman .
Received November 26 , 1877 .
The Standard Barometers of these two important establishments , up to within a recent date , had never been compared directly , although

