Observations on the Orifices found in certain poisonous Snakes , situated between the Nostril and the Eye .
By Patrick Russell , M.D. F.R.S. With some Remarks on the Structure of those Orifices ; and the Description of a Bag connected with the Eye , met with in the same Snakes .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 2 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 70 .
] The orifice , which is the principal object of this paper , has been long since noticed by naturalists , who conceived it to be the external organ of hearing .
Dr. Russell , in the many opportunities he has had of observing a variety of snakes , has particularly examined them with respect to this feature ; and he here informs us , that he has found in the whole class ( exclusive of the rattle-snake , ) fifteen or sixteen species of Coluber , and three of the genus Boa , which have these lateral orifices ; that they have not as yet been discovered in the genus Anguis ; and that in general it appears that only venomous snakes have this distinctive character .
From Mr. Home 's description and remarks , we learn that these orifices do not lead to the nostril or to the ear , but to a distinct bag of a rounded form , there being within the skull a hollow of the same shape , surrounded by bone , which seems purely intended to receive it .
This cavity is described as resembling a cup , formed by the bones of the skull and those of the upper jaw , and not unlike the orbit .
The bags bear a relative proportion to the size of the snake ; they are , like the eyelids , lined with a cuticle , which forms the transparent cornea , making a part of the outer cuticle ; both which , it seems , are shed at the same time .
Mr. Home proceeds next to a description of similar bags in the deer and antelope kinds , which were by some thought to be lachrymal glands or ducts .
On close examination , however , it is found that these bags have a secretion of their own , and that there is no reason for thinking that tears ever pass into them , the passage into the nose being unusually free , and the orifices of the bags in general unfavourably situated for the reception of the tears .
The use to which the fluid secreted in these bags is applied , is as yet unknown .
In the snake this apparatus has that position which seems best adapted to pour out the fluid upon the cornea when the head of the snake is in an erect position .

