The New Star Perseus .
" The New Star in Perseus.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , I.E.S. Received and Read February 28 1901 .
Dr. Copeland was kind enough to inform me by telegram on the afternoon of February 22 , of the discovery by Dr. Anderson of a new star in the Milky Way in Perseus on the early morning of that day .
It was stated that its position was R.A. 3h 24m 25s and Declination + 43 34 ' , its magnitude 2*7 , and colour of a bluish-white .
Later in the evening this infoimation was corroborated by another telegram from the " Centralstelle " at Kiel .
Owing to cloudy weather , no photographs could be obtained at Kensington until the evening of the 25th .
Momentary glimpses of the star on the evening of the 22nd , between the hours of 6 and 7.30 P.M. , indicated that the Nova had considerably brightened since the time of its discovery , as it was estimated as a little brighter than a 1st magnitude star ; no satisfactory observations of the spectrum could be made .
Another glimpse on the early morning ( 1.30 a.m. ) of Monday ( 25th ) showmd that the star was still of about the 1st magnitude .
Professor Pickering reports that the Nova w*as dimmer than an 11th magnitude star on February 19 .
On the 23rd it wms as bright as Capella .
The star , therefore , was then at least 10,000 times brighter than it was four days previously , and ranks as the brightest new star recorded since that wdiich appeared in the year 1604 .
Since the 25th the brightness has diminished slightly , and on the evening of the 27th was estimated between the 1st and 2nd magnitude ( 1'7 ) .
If this reduction of brilliancy continues at the same rate , the new star wall evidently be shorter lived than those to wdiich it has most closely approximated in luminous intensity at the maximum , and less time will be available for studying the spectral changes which may be anticipated .
I may state that Tycho 's Nova ( 1572 ) was visible for nearly 1-J years , and Kepler 's ( 1604 ) for about the same period .
It is interesting to note that the star w*as described by Dr. Anderson as being of a bluish-white colour at the time of discovery .
Since it has diminished in brightness this has changed , and on the night of February 27 , a reddish tinge was observed .
The sky on Monday evening was by no means free from clouds , but ten very satisfactory photographs were secured with the three instruments in regular use for stellar spectra .
Edwards 's isochromatic plates wrere used , as it was considered desirable to secure a record of the green part of the spectrum .
Although there has not been time for a complete discussion of these photographs , it may be stated that the spectrum contains numerous dark lines , several of which are associated with bright bands on the VOL. LXVIII .
K Sir Norman Lockyer .
less refrangible side .
Further , the spectrum , as a whole , greatly resembles that of Nova Aurigse .
, ---- / ''"'N -tj CO g.\lt ; I o o o Tf ) o \#163 ; -4- } c3 g g CL\gt ; g g .3 c8 .S H the Nova on one The Nevj Star Perseus .
of the plates , indicates that the middle portions of the bright lines are not far from their normal positions ; those of the dark ones , however , are displaced by some 15 tenth-metres towards the violet , thus indicating a differential movement of something like 700 miles a second .
Movements more rapid and disturbances more violent than those observed in Nova Aurigse are therefore indicated .
both by the greater displacement of the dark lines relatively to those that are bright and the greater breadth of the bright and dark lines .
My comparison of spectra shows us that we are dealing with two swarms , one of which , the less dense , gives us broad bright lines and is almost at rest with reference to the line of sight ; the denser swarm , indicated by the dark lines , is in most rapid movement in the line of sight towards the earth .
An interesting feature of the spectrum is the presence of fine dark lines down the middle of each of the bright lines of hydrogen and calcium ; these are most probably reversals , and if this be so , they will be of great service for accurate determination of the wave-lengths of the other bright lines .
The dark hydrogen line Hy , and perhaps H and HS , are also possibly reversed .
Eye observations showed among the chief lines a group of four in the green ; one probably H ( 3 , the others near 492 , 501 , and 517 ; a bright line at or near D , and a brilliant red line probably corresponding to Ha . .
Each of these was accompanied by a dark broad line on its more refrangible side .
Other lines of less brightness were observed both in the green and red .
It at first seemed probable that two of the bright lines in the green ( XX 492 and 501 ) might be due to asterium , while that in the orange was perhaps the helium line D3 .
Subsequent investigation , however , suggested as an alternative origin that these lines might be the enhanced lines of iron at A. 4924T and 5018'6 , which are very nearly in the same positions as the asterium lines .
This view was tested by inquiring whether other prominent enhanced lines of iron so strongly visible in the spectrum of a Cygni were present .
A comparison with the spectrum of this star photographed with the same instruments suggested that many lines between F and h in the Nova probably correspond with lines in a Cygni .
Certainty could not be arrived at in consequence of the great breadth of the lines in the Nova .
Hence , as the Nova bore some resemblance to both Nova Aurigse and a Cygni , a reference was suggested to the lines recorded in the spectrum of Nova Aurigse which were observed when the light of that star was on the wane , and when the lines were thinned enough to be easily measurable .
I may also add that these observations were made before the work on enhanced lines was undertaken .
he importance of this reference was strengthened by the consideraSir Norman Lockyer .
tion that with such a tremendous outburst we should expect the original invisible swarm to have been ( very rapidly ) advanced to a considerable condensation at the locus of impact , and therefore to resemble some " star " which had ( slowly ) arrived at a position pretty high up on the ascending temperature curve in the ordinary course of evolution on the meteoritic hypothesis .
A comparison of the bright lines recorded by Campbell* and Yogelf in the spectrum of Nova Aurigse with the strongest lines of a Cygni\#151 ; a very detailed record of the spectrum of which star has been recently compiled here-1-shows that there is a close agreement between the two sets of lines .
These strong a Cygni lines are almost without exception the representatives of enhanced lines of some of .
the metals , chiefly Fe , Ti , Cr , Ni , Ca , Sr , and Sc. If we exclude the lines of hydrogen from those which were recorded in the spectrum of Nova Auriga ' , there remain forty-four lines for comparison .
Thirty of these , or about 70 per cent. , agree approximately in position with either strong isolated lines or groups of lines in the spectrum of a Cygni .
It may be assumed that , taking into consideration the broad nature of the Nova lines , if there be any genuine connection between them and the lines of a Cygni , any close groups of separately distinguishable lines in the latter spectrum would be thrown together in the ^ova spectrum , and appear as broad bands .
A good instance of this appears in Campbell 's list .
He records a band extending from AA 4534 to 4501 .
In the spectrum of a Cygni there is a strong line at each of the positions given , and between them there occurs a strong quartet of lines The former are well enhanced lines of titanium , and the latter of iron .
It seems extremely likely , therefore , that the six lines thrown together produce the apparently continuous band observed by If^the stage of a Cygni has really been reached , the following considerations come in:\#151 ; In the orderly condensation of swarms , according to the meteoritic hypothesis , the earlier stages are J Dark lines , corresponding chiefly with Cygnian ... ... ... ... ... ... .\ the enhanced lines of various metals .
Dark lines , comprising both arc and Polarian ... ... ... ... ... ... ^ enhanced lines of various metals .
r Dark lines , chiefly corresponding to Aldebarian ... ... ... ... ... .
i those which appear m the arc spectra L of various metals .
r Mixed bright and dark flutings and dark . . .
... ... ... .J lines .
Bright lines of hydrogen in 11 ... ... ... ... .
|_ those stars which are variable .
Nebula ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
BriSht lineS ' _______________________ Pi \#163 ; * ' Ast.-Pliys .
Jour .
, ' vol. xi , p. 807 , 1892 .
f ' Ast.-Pbys .
Jour .
, ' vol. xii , p. 912 , 1893 .
The New Star in Perseus .
In the case of new stars , after the maximum of luminosity has been reached , however high they ascend , short of the apex of the temperature curve , this order must be reversed , and hence we should expect to find the spectrum varying in accordance with the foregoing sequence , but in the reverse order .
In Nova Corona ; ( 1866 ) , according to the observations of Sir William Huggins and Dr. Miller , the absorption spectrum was very similar to that of a Orionis , which is a star of the Antarian group , so that the temperature attained was relatively low ; this indeed is demonstrated by the fact that at present it shines faintly as an Antarian star , and doubtless did so before the collision .
The collision , therefore , probably did not take Nova Corome very much above its initial stage of temperature , and when the disturbance was over it simply reverted to its old conditions .
The spectrum of Nova Cygni ( 1876 ) was not photographed , and as special attention was given by most observers to the bright lines , there is no satisfactory record of the absorption spectrum .
This now appears as a nebula , and doubtless it was a nebula to begin with , as Nova Coronse was a star to begin with .
In Nova Aurigse ( 1892 ) , as we have seen , the comparison with a Cygni indicates that the Cygnian ( a higher ) stage was reached , and in the final stages its spectrum corresponded with that of the planetary nebulae , that is , a stage lower than that reached by Nova Coronse .
The intermediate stages , however , were not observed , possibly because the star was never very brilliant , and partly because of the difficulty of observing closely grouped lines , such as occur in the Polarian and Aldebarian stages when they are rendered broad by such disturbances as those which were obviously present in the Nova .
The observed maximum magnitude in the case of a new star will evidently depend upon the distance and size of the colliding masses , as well as upon the temperature produced by the'collision .
It is not remarkable , therefore , that there is no apparent relation between the greatest brightness and the temperature indicated by the spectra .
Nova Coronse , with its relatively low temperature , shone for a time as a 2nd magnitude star , while Nova Aurigse , with a much higher temperature , scarcely surpassed a star of the 5th magnitude .
I now return to Nova Persei .
If the idea that in the present Nova the swarm which gives the dark line spectrum resembles a Cygni be confirmed ; as its temperature is reduced we may expect it to pass successively through some or all of the stages of temperature represented by stars of the Polarian , Aldebarian , and Antarian groups , enhanced lines being first replaced by arc lines , and then by flutings .
Whether it remains at one of these stages or undergoes a further backwardation into a nebula will be a point of the highest interest .
If , like Nova Aurigse , the present Nova should end as a nebula , it VOL. lxviii .
T Proceedings and List of Candidates .
will furnish a most convincing proof of the fundamental metallic nature of nebulae .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer and Mr. F. E. Baxandall , of the Solar Physics Observatory , and to Mr. A. Fowler , of the Royal College of Science , who have greatly assisted me in preparing the present note , and who , with the addition of Mr. Butler , of the Solar Physics Observatory , secured the excellent set of photographs and eye observations on the night of the 25th , from which the new knowledge has been derived .
The preparation of the slides I owe to Sapper J. P. Wilkie .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks Iri pursuance of the Statutes , the names of Candidates for election March 7 , 1901 .
ordered for them .
Into the Society were read as follows : Adeney , Walter Ernest , D.Sc .
Alcock\gt ; Alfred William , Major , I.M.S. Allen , Alfred Henry , F.C.S. Ardagh , Sir John , Major-General , R.E. Balance , Charles Alfred , F.R.C.S. Binnie , Sir Alexander Richardson , M.I.C.E. Bourne , Gilbert C. , M.A. Bovey , Professor Henry T. , M.A. Boyce , Professor Rubert .
Bridge , Professor Thomas William , Clowes , Frank , D.Sc .
Copeman , Sydney Monckton , M.D. Corfield , Professor William Henry , M.D. Crookshank , Professor Edgar March , M.B. Darwin , Horace , M.A. Davison , Charles , D.Sc .
Dendy , Professor Arthur , D.Sc .
Dixon , Professor Alfred Cardew , M.A. Dixon , Professor Augustus EdDyson , Frank Watson , M.A. Evans , Arthur John , M.A. Feilden , Colonel Henry Wemyss .
Galloway , Professor William , F.G.S. Goodrich , Edwin S. Gray , Professor Thomas , B.Sc. Gregory , Professor J. W. , D.Sc .
ward , F.C.S. M.A. Brown , John .
Bruce , John Mitchell , M.D. Budge , Ernest A. Wallis , D.Litt .
Callaway , Charles , D.Sc .
Cardew , Philip , Major , R.E. Chattaway , Frederick Daniel , M.A.

