396 Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
9 .
Markwalder and Starling , ' Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 48 , p. 348 ( 1914 ) .
10 .
Markwalder and Starling , 'Journ .
Phys. , ' vol. 47 , p. 275 ( 1913 ) .
11 .
Ketcham , King , and Hooker , ' Amer .
Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 31 , p. 64 ( 1912-13 ) .
12 .
Ftihner and Starling , 'Journ .
Phys. , ' vol. 47 , p. 286 ( 1913 ) .
13 .
Henderson , 'Amer .
Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 16 , p. 325 ( 1906 ) .
14 .
Piper ( unpublished ) .
15 .
Piper , ' Arcliiv f. ( Anat .
u. ) Phys. , ' p. 343 ( 1912 ) .
16 .
Wiggers , 'Amer .
Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 33 , p. 382 ( 1914 ) .
17 .
Evans and Ogawa , ' Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 47 , p. 446 ( 1914 ) .
18 .
Lewis and Mathison , ' Heart , ' vol. 2 , p. 47 ( 1910-11 ) .
19 .
Mathison , ' Heart , ' vol. 2 , p. 54 ( 1910-11 ) .
20 .
Patterson , Piper , and Starling , 'Journ .
Phys. , ' vol. 48 , p. 465 ( 1914 ) .
21 .
Cannon , ' Amer .
Journ. Phys. , 'vol .
33 , p. 356 ( 1914 ) .
The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Ilcemolysis .
By W. W. C. Topley , M.B. , M.R.C.P. , Bacteriologist to Charing Cross Hospital .
( Communicated by Dr. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1914 .
) ( From the Bacteriological Department of Charing Cross Hospital .
) The question of the effect of salt-concentration on the phenomena involved in haemolysis has already received a considerable amount of attention .
Nolf originally showed that the presence of certain salts , in definite concentrations , inhibited haemolysis , and his observations have been repeatedly confirmed .
Markl , working with acid sodium phosphate , showed that the introduction of this salt into a haemolytic mixture caused complete inhibition of haemolysis when a certain concentration was reached .
He was also able to show that the presence of this salt did not prevent the combination of the antibody with the red cells .
He therefore concluded that its action consisted in so influencing the osmotic relations of the cell membrane that the complement could not be fixed upon it .
He found that this action was not specific for acid sodium phosphate , but could be observed with other salts , notably with hypertonic solutions of sodium chloride itself .
These results were confirmed by Ehrlich and Sachs ; but these authors , interpreting their findings in the light of the side-chain theory , believe that the action of the increased saline concentration is produced by preventing the chemical union of the amboceptor and complement , and not by any change in the osmotic relations of the cell membrane .
The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Hcemolysis .
397 It is of interest to note that Muir and Browning have shown that the addition of sodium chloride to fresh serum , in quantities sufficient to inhibit the haemolytic action of complement , also prevents the retention of the complement in the pores of a Berkefeld filter .
The following investigations were undertaken in the hope of throwing further light on the part played by salt-concentration in preventing the union of red cells and complement .
Attention has been confined throughout to the action of varying strengths of sodium chloride .
Sheep corpuscles , three times washed , have been employed as the test red cells , and fresh guinea-pig serum as complement .
The inactivated serum of a rabbit , immunised by repeated intravenous injections against sheep 's red cells , provided a powerful haemolytic antibody .
It seemed desirable to commence by repeating Marld 's experiments , amplifying them in certain directions .
Without entering into details of the experiments performed , it may be said that Markl 's conclusions were entirely confirmed , and that no action of the increased salt-concentration , other than the prevention of the combination of the complement with the sensitised red cells , could be demonstrated .
Markl also showed , in the course of his experiments , that by adding increasing amounts of a haemolytic serum it was possible to produce lysis in the presence of increasing amounts of acid sodium phosphate .
He , however , employed an active serum containing haemolytic antibody and complement , and made no attempt to investigate these two factors separately .
An attempt was therefore made to estimate quantitatively how far the anti-haemolytic action of the increased salt-concentration could be counteracted by increasing the concentration of the haemolytic antibody or of the complement .
The following experiment is a typical one , and the results obtained in it were repeatedly confirmed .
Experiment.\#151 ; In this and similar tests , since it was desired to determine the increase in haemolysis resulting from an increase in complement or antibody content consisting of a definite number of haemolytic doses , the guinea-pig serum was first absorbed for 2 hours at 0 ' C. with excess of sheep corpuscles ; and a preliminary series of tests was put up to determine the minimal haemolytic dose of this absorbed serum .
Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
M.H.I ) .
of Haemolysin ... = 005 c.c. of a 1/ 250 dilution .
M.H.D. of Complement ... = 0 03 c.c. Amount of Test Corpuscles = 0'05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension .
Haemolysis in 1 hour at 37 ' C. M.H.D. complement .
1 .
1 .
1 .
1- 1- 2-5 .
6 10 .
M.H.D. hsemolysin .
1 .
2-5 .
5 .
10 .
100 . !
, i 1 . ! !
1 .
Salt concentration\#151 ; 0 '8 per cent. Complete Complete Complete Complete Complete Complete Complete Complete Almost 10 " complete 33 33 33 33 33 \gt ; 3 1-2 " Slight Almost complete 33 33 33 Almost complete Yery marked i 33 1-4 " None None Almost complete 33 33 Slight Moderate Very marked 1-6 " 33 33 None Almost complete 33 j None Slight Moderate 1-8 " 33 33 33 None 33 " None Slight 2-0 " 33 33 33 3 3 33 33 33 None 2-2 " 33 " 33 3 3 Marked \#187 ; !
\#187 ; 3 , 2-4 " 33 33 33 33 Slight 33 33 33 2-6 " 33 33 33 33 Trace 33 33 33 2-8 " 33 33 33 33 None i 33 33 33 Note.\#151 ; The two series are not strictly comparable , because , while it w as always possible to add the doses of hsemolysin as 0 *05 c.c. of a saline dilution , the amount of complement added necessarily varied .
The last series was the only one in which the amount added was sufficiently large to seriously influence the salt concentration , and here the values , instead of varying from 0 *8 to 2 '8 per cent. , ranged approximately from 0 *8 to 2 *38 per cent. In the series containing 100 M.H.D. of lisemolvsin , the tubes which showed little or no hamiolysis show ed marked agglutination of the red cells .
but this also decreased , and finally disappeared as the saline concentration increased .
Having thus confirmed Markl 's observation that increased saline concentration inhibits the combination of the complement with the sensitised red cells , and , further , that this inhibitory influence can , to a certain extent , be counterbalanced by increasing the amount of haemolytic antibody present , it was natural to attempt to determine whether , in hypotonic solutions , the amount of antibody necessary to cause lysis would be decreased ; and , finally , whether it was possible for complement to combine with red cells without the intervention of haemolytic antibody in mixtures containing little or no ionisable salt .
The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Hcemolysis .
399 In considering the results obtained during this part of the investigation , it is necessary to bear in mind the action of hypotonic or salt-free media on complementary sera , especially the phenomenon known as complementsplitting .
An observation made by Sachs and Terruuchi in 1907 , whilst studying the inactivation of complement in a salt-free medium , has an important bearing on the problem in hand .
These observers found that guinea-pig serum alone was capable of causing a more or less marked degree of lysis of ox corpuscles in a salt-free medium , made isotonic by the addition of 7-8 per cent , saccharose , while the same serum had no lytic action in normal saline solution .
They were not , however , prepared to admit that this phenomenon was really comparable to the haemolysis which takes place in a mixture of red cells , haemolytic antibody and complement .
They found that , while the complement alone produced haemolysis in saccharose solutions , but not in normal saline , complement acting together with a specific haemolysin always produced more lysis in saline than in saccharose solution ; and , in some cases , lysis was entirely absent when a complete haemolytic system was allowed to act in a saccharose medium , but well marked when the same system interacted in normal saline solution .
They noted , however , that inactivation for 30 minutes at 55 ' C. destroyed the power of the complement to produce this abnormal haemolysis , and suggested that it might be due to " a peculiarity of the normal haemolysin .
" A large number of experiments were undertaken in order to further investigate this phenomenon .
It is only necessary to present here the main results obtained ; but it should be noted that different specimens of serum obtained from presumably normal guinea-pigs gave very varying results , while a single given specimen often showed marked changes within 24 to 48 hours though stored on ice .
The specimens of serum vary in two ways , in their power of inducing lysis in salt-free media and in their resistance to the anti-complementary action of such media ; and these two variations do not run parallel .
Thus , a given specimen of serum may be actively lytic in a salt-free medium , but be easily inactivated by this same medium in the absence of red cells , while another specimen may be feebly lytic but suffer only a slight degree of inactivation , a third being actively lytic and markedly resistant to the inactivating action of the salt-free medium .
The specimens of guinea-pig serum used in these experiments were absorbed at 0 ' C. with sheep 's red cells for a period varying in different experiments from one to two hours , in order to remove any trace of normal hsemolysin that might be present .
It was found that the great majority of sera so treated Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
had a definite lytic action on sheep corpuscles when allowed to act on them for one hour at 37 ' C. in a salt-free medium , the haemolysis varying with different sera from the merest trace to complete solution .
A few sera which , when untreated , produced haemolysis , failed to do so after the preliminary absorption , while a few others produced no lysis before or after treatment .
The lysis was never very rapid ; thus in no case was complete solution ever observed in less than 30 minutes .
Inactivation at 55 ' C. for 30 minutes completely destroyed the activity of every specimen of serum examined in this way .
In a preliminary series of experiments fresh guinea-pig serum was absorbed with sheep corpuscles , and then varying amounts were added to 0 05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of sheep 's red cells contained in 1 c.c. of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution .
The following results may be taken as typical:\#151 ; Experiment.\#151 ; A series of tubes was put up , each containing 1 c.c. of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution and 0'05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of sheep corpuscles .
Varying amounts of the complementary serum were then added and the whole series incubated at 37 ' C. for one hour .
A control tube , containing the same amount of red cells suspended in 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution to which had been added 0'8 per cent , of sodium chloride , * and the maximum amount of complement employed , was put up ; also a similar tube with the addition of 4 M.H.D. of hsemolysin .
Amount of complement added to salt-free tubes .
Haemolysis in 1 hour at 37 ' C. c.c. o-o None .
0-05 Moderate .
0-075 Marked .
0-1 Slight .
0T25 Trace .
0-15 None .
OT75 39 0-2 99 0-225 99 0-25 99 Controls .
i Haemolysis in 1 hour | at 37 ' C. In 1 c.c. of 7*8 per-cent.* saccharose containing 0*8 per cent , sodium chloride :\#151 ; ( 1 ) 0 #05 c.c. red cells+ 0 *25 c.c. complement ( 2 ) 0*05 c.c. red cells+0*25 c.c. complement+ 4 M.H.D. hsemolysin No haemolysis .
Complete haemolysis .
* This medium is hereafter referred to as " normal saline-saccharose solution .
" The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Haemolysis .
401 It is clear from this experiment that only a certain definite amount of complement will cause haemolysis , an increase or decrease in this amount leads to a rapid reduction and final disappearance of the lytic action .
These results are wholly unlike those obtained when working with a complete haemolytic system reacting in normal saline solution .
It seemed possible that they might be explained by the fact that in increasing the amount of complementary serum we necessarily increase the amount of electrolytes , and that hence we might pass the limit at which complement could be absorbed by the red cells in the absence of a haemolytic antibody .
Experiments carried out to test the validity of this explanation gave very definite results .
Experiment.\#151 ; A series of tubes was put up , each of which contained 1 c.c. of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose and 0 05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of washed sheep corpuscles .
After the addition of the constituents mentioned below , the whole series was incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. Tube .
Haemolysis in ; 1 hour at 37 ' C. Each tube contained 1 c.c. of 7 '8-per-cent , saccharose solution + 0 *05 c.c. red cells 1 + 0 *05 c.c. complement Almost complete .
2 + 0-10 " None .
3 + 0-25 " Slight trace .
4 + 0 *05 " +0 '05 c.c. 0 '8-per-cent , saline 5 + 0*05 j , +0*20 j , 0 *8 jj ' None .
6* + 0 *05 " +0 '05 " haemolvsin Complete .
1 7 + 0*05 , , +0*20 , , , , y\gt ; : 8 + 0*05 c.c. complement + 0*05 c.c. liaemolysin + 0*05 c.c. None .
inactivated complement * The liaemolysin was diluted with normal saline so that 0 '05 c.c. contained 2 M.H.D. This experiment shows that it is the raised salt concentration which prevents the haemolysis in the tubes containing the higher quantities of complementary serum .
Thus , 0'05 c.c. of complement causes almost complete lysis while 0'25 c.c. causes none .
But 0 05 c.c. of complement + 0'20 c.e. of 0'8-per-cent , saline also produce no lysis .
It will be noted also that in this experiment the addition of a haemolytic serum causes increased lysis , but if we also add 0 05 c.c. of the same serum which was employed as complement , previously heating it at 55 ' C. for 30 minutes , no lysis results .
Here , again , the effect of increased saline concentration in combating haemolysis is clearly seen .
These results help to explain those obtained by Sachs and Terruuchi , which led those observers to deny the identity of the haemolysis produced Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
by complement alone in salt-free media with that produced by a specific hfemolysin in normal saline .
The dilution of a complementary serum with 10 times its volume of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution , and the subsequent incubation of the mixture for one hour at 37 ' 0 .
, destroys the activity of the complement , but , if we add 0'075 c.c. of complement to 1 c.c. of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution , containing 0'05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of sheep corpuscles , and then incubate at 37 ' C. for one hour , we shall obtain a more or less marked degree of haemolysis .
This can only mean that the complement which has become attached to the red cells is no longer subject to the destructive action of the salt-free medium .
Thus , it is clear that the addition of a haemolytic serum will only tend to increase haemolysis , if the increased tendency to combination of red cells and complement , caused by the haemolytic antibody it contains , is greater than the decreased tendency to combination resulting from the increased saline concentration .
For unless combination is fairly rapid the destructive action of the markedly hypotonic medium on the complement will come into play .
It follows that we should expect very powerful haemolytic sera to increase lysis under these conditions , and weak ones to decrease it .
In general , the active sera , which are obtained by immunising rabbits against sheep corpuscles , tend to markedly increase haemolysis in saccharose solutions ; but this is not always the case , and in some experiments it was found that more lysis occurred with complement alone than with complement and haemolysin , thus confirming the observation of Sachs and Terruuchi .
The addition of serum , or serum diluted with saline , seems always to act more powerfully in inhibiting haemolysis in salt-free media than does the addition of an equal amount of normal saline solution alone ; and , although the haemolytic sera here employed were always greatly diluted , it is possible iliat this factor came into play .
Keeping these facts in mind we may pass to the consideration of experiments in which varying amounts of haemolysin were allowed to act in varying strengths of saline in 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution , in the presence of \#166 ; 0'05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of sheep corpuscles and 0'05 c.c. of complementary serum .
Experiment.\#151 ; Each tube contained 1 c.c. of 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution to which had been added varying amounts of sodium chloride .
To each tube was added 0 05 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension of sheep corpuscles and 0'05 c.c. complement .
To each tube was then further added the amount of hoemolysin indicated in the left-hand column .
This hsemolysin was added as 0 05 c.c. of a dilution of the required strength in the saline-saccharose solution .
Incubation was carried out for 1 hour at 37 ' C. The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Hcemolysis .
403 Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
From this experiment it is clear that:\#151 ; ( 1 ) When no haemolytic antibody is added , haemolysis only occurs in the tube which contains no salt , except the small quantity present in the 0'05 c.c. of guinea-pig serum employed as complement .
( 2 ) When amounts of haemolytic antibody are added below the minimal haemolytic dose ( previously determined for haemolysis occurring in normal saline-saccharose solution ) , the degree of lysis at first increases as the salt concentration decreases .
For instance , while 0T M.H.D. produces only a trace of haemolysis in 0'8-per-cent , saline it produces moderate haemolysis in the tubes containing 0'56 per cent , to 0'44 per cent , sodium chloride ; and , while 0'5 M.H.D. produces marked haemolysis in the presence of 0'8 per cent , sodium chloride , it produces complete haemolysis in the 0'5-per-cent , solution .
( 3 ) When , however , the lower concentrations of saline are reached , the anti-complementary factor comes into play and the haemolysis again decreases .
The haemolysis in almost all cases reaches its minimum in the tube containing 0'2 per cent , sodium chloride , probably for the reason that this amount of salt is sufficient to prevent or delay the union of red cells and complement , unless a considerable amount of haemolytic antibody is present , while the hypotonicity is sufficiently marked to rapidly destroy the activity of the complement .
It will be noticed that , although the haemolysis in the great majority of the tubes presents an ordered variation , certain tubes show irregular results ; in the above experiment , for instance , the tube containing 1 M.H.D. in 0'72-per-cent , saline and that containing 10 M.H.D. in 0'2-per-cent , saline .
Several similar experiments , however , all yielded results agreeing in all substantial particulars with those indicated above , though in all there were individual tubes which showed irregular , haemolysis .
One factor which accounts for this is that the cells tend to sink rather rapidly in the saccharose solution , and sometimes undergo agglutination , while in a few cases the corpuscles show marked agglutination in the saccharose solution before any serum is added , though they remain evenly distributed in control saline tubes .
Having established the fact that , in passing from markedly hypertonic to markedly hypotonic saline solutions , less and less haemolytic antibody is needed to bring about the union of red cells and complement , and that , when a completely salt-free medium is reached , this union takes place unaided , it seemed necessary to enquire further into the nature of this direct or unaided combination .
We know that when dealing with a mixture of red cells , ha3molytic antibody , and complement , reacting in a medium of normal saline solution , The Injiuence of Salt-Concentration on 405 the red cells and antibody combine at a temperature of 0 ' C. , while the further combination of complement with the red-cell-antibody complex only occurs when the temperature is raised .
An attempt was made to determine whether the combination of red cells and complement in a salt-free medium conformed to this rule , as we should expect if the union were really a direct or unaided one .
This observation is of considerable importance , since it would obviously be theoretically possible for an antibody to be involved , which was present in the guinea-pig serum , but which only acted in salt-free media , and which therefore was not removed when the undiluted serum was absorbed on ice with sheep corpuscles .
The following experiment yields a definite indication as regards this possibility:\#151 ; Experiment.\#151 ; A number of tubes were prepared , each containing 1 c.c. of a 7'8-per-cent , saccharose solution .
To one , red cells and complement were added and incubation was carried out for one hour at 37 ' C. This tube was controlled by another containing the red cells and complement in 1 c.c. of the normal saline-saccharose solution .
To further tubes of saccharose solution were added in some cases red cells and complement , and in others complement alone , and these tubes were kept for one hour at 0 ' C. Some of these tubes then rapidly centrifugalised , and the supernatant fluid and deposit treated as indicated .
The red cells were added as 005 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , suspension in saccharose solution ; 0075 c.c. of complementary serum was added in every case .
* Haemolysis .
Incubation for 1 hour at 37 ' C.\#151 ; ( 1 ) Complement + red cells in saccharose Very marked .
None .
Yery marked .
\gt ; \gt ; 33 33 None .
Yery marked .
( 2 ) " " " +0 *8 per cent. NaCI 1 hour at 0 ' C. followed by incubation for 1 hour at 37 ' C. , after the following treatment\#151 ; ( 3 ) Tube containing red cells + complement shaken ( 4 ) Deposit from one ( red cells + complement ) tube + supernatant fluid from another ( 5 ) Supernatant fluid from one ( red cells + complement ) tube + fresh red cells ( 6 ) Deposit from one ( red cells + complement ) tube -l- 1 c.c. of saccharose solution ( 7 ) Supernatant fluid from a tube containing complement alone + fresh red cells ( 8 ) A tube containing complement alone shaken + red cells From these results it follows that:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The red cells do not absorb the whole complement at 0 ' C. , since when they are separated by centrifugalisation and , after being suspended in fresh 406 Mr. W. W. C. Topley .
saccharose solution , are incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. , they undergo no hcemolysis .
( 2 ) No antibody capable of combining with red cells at 0 ' C. is involved , since the supernatant fluid after one hour 's absorption on ice is capable of haemolysing fresh red cells .
It is important to note that in this experiment the complement is not appreciably affected by the dilution with salt-free saccharose solution at 0 ' C. , since when a tube containing this mixture was centrifugalised the supernatant fluid was capable of haemolysing added red cells on further incubation at 37 ' C. A somewhat different result was , however , often obtained .
While the deposit from a tube containing red cells and complement in saccharose solution , which had been kept for one hour at 0 ' C. , never showed any trace of haemolysis when suspended in fresh saccharose solution and incubated for a second hour at 37 ' C. , it frequently happened that the supernatant fluid failed to produce more than a trace of haemolysis when incubated at 37 ' C. with fresh corpuscles .
In such cases it was always found that , if the tube containing complement alone in saccharose solution was similarly kept for one hour at 0 ' O. , then centrifugalised and the supernatant fluid added to fresh red cells , only a trace of haemolysis occurred upon further incubation at 37 ' C. It is therefore clear that the failure of lysis is due to the action of the salt-free medium on the complementary serum , and not to any fixation of the complement by the red cells in these cases .
At the same time , it was found that if the supernatant fluid from one of these tubes containing complement only was added to the deposit from a tube which , during the preliminary treatment at 0 ' C. , had contained both red cells and complement , then a degree of lysis resulted during the second hour 's incubation at 37 ' C " which corresponded with the hcemolysis which occurred when a tube containing red cells and complement in saccharose was incubated at 37 ' 0 .
, or kept on ice for one hour and then shaken and incubated for another hour at 37 ' C. This clearly indicates that some part of the serum has been precipitated and is present with the red cells in the deposit .
In other words a certain degree of complement-splitting has taken place .
From other experiments performed during this part of the investigation this does not seem to be the whole explanation .
It was found in many cases that , when a tube containing complement alone in saccharose solution was kept on ice for one hour and then well shaken , the contents failed to hicmolyse fresh red cells , though still producing lysis of the deposit from an iced saccharose tube containing red cells and complement .
It seems clear , The Influence of Salt-Concentration on Hcemolysis .
407 therefore , that the presence of the red cells prevents the action of the salt-free medium on the complementary serum from progressing beyond a certain point .
Experiments carried out to test the hypothesis that this might be due to a combination of the mid-piece with the red cells gave no definite results , for reasons which need not be entered into here .
The fact remains that those complementary sera which are unaffected by simple dilution with salt-free saccharose solution at 0 ' C. show no evidence of any absorption of the complement by red cells at this temperature .
We are , therefore , justified in saying that complement , combining directly with red cells in a salt-free medium , behaves in the same manner as complement combining with red cells in a medium of normal saline solution under the influence of a haemolytic antibody , in that no combination occurs at a temperature of 0 ' C. In the experiments described above , and in the discussion of the results obtained , the terms " complement " and " haemolytic antibody " have been employed in their usually accepted sense .
It is obvious , however , that the sera employed contain many other substances , and the recent crossabsorption experiments of Thiele and Embleton show that a hard and fast division into complement and antibody is not permissible .
It is , therefore , possible that not the whole complement , but only some specialised part of it can combine , unaided , with red cells in the absence of electrolytes ; but this consideration does not affect the main thesis that a combination , that is impossible in a salt-containing solution without the addition of a special antibody , can occur in its absence in a salt-free medium .
Conclusions .
In the case of the haemolysis of sheep corpuscles by guinea-pig complement , it is found that:\#151 ; 1 .
The presence of an excess of an electrolyte ( sodium chloride ) above the normal limit in a haemolytic mixture prevents the combination of the complement with the red-cell-antibody complex .
2 .
If the concentration of the antibody be markedly increased , it is possible , up to a certain point , to counteract the effect of the increased salt concentration .
3 .
If the salt concentration be decreased , a decreasing concentration of antibody serves to produce the union of red cells and complement .
4 .
In an almost completely salt-free medium the combination occurs in the complete absence of antibody .
408 Dr. A. Compton .
The Influence of the Hydrogen It only remains for me to record my great indebtedness to Dr. S. G. Platts for the assistance which he has rendered me throughout a considerable part of this investigation .
REFERENCES .
Ehrlich and Sachs , " Ueber den Mechanismus der Amboceptorenwirkung , " ' Berl .
Klin .
Wochschr .
, ' vol. 39 , p. 492 ( 1902 ) .
Markl , " Ueber Hemmung der Hamolyse durch Salze , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Hygiene , ' vol. 39 , p. 87 ( 1902 ) .
Muir and Browning , " On the Filtration of Serum Complement , " ' Jour .
Path , and Bact .
, ' vol. 13 , p. 232 ( 1909 ) .
Nolf , " Le Mecanisme de la Globulolyse , " ' Annals Inst. Pasteur , ' vol. 14 , p. 656 ( 1900 ) .
Sachs and Terruuchi , " Die Inaktivierung der Komplement im Salzfreien Medium , " ' Berl .
Klin .
Wochschr .
, ' vol. 44 , p. 467 ( 1907 ) .
Thiele and Embleton , " The Evolution of the Antibody , " 'Zeitschr .
f. Immunitats .
u. Exper .
Therap .
, ' vol. 20 , p. 1 .
( 1913 ) .
The Influence of the Hydrogen Concentration upon the Optimum Temperature of a Ferment .
By Arthur Compton , M.B. , D.Sc .
( FT .
U.I. ) , Imperial Cancer Besearcli Fund .
( Communicated by Prof. W. Bulloch , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1914 .
) The present investigation is an outcome of previous work , * resulting in the discovery that the optimum temperature of any ferment , or ferment function , occurring in a given enzymic preparation , is independent of the concentration both of the substrate and of the enzyme , the duration of the action being constant .
To follow up this observation it was felt desirable to investigate in a similar way the influence , if any , of the reaction , that is of the hydrogen ion concentration of the medium , on the optimum temperature of enzyme action : the more so because enzymes , as regards their activity , are known to be extremely sensitive to this factor\#151 ; some requiring an acid , others a neutral , and others again an alkaline medium in which to act .
The question , moreover , is of special interest on account of the fact that Sorensen , in his classical researches on the rdle of the ionic concentration of the medium in activating enzymes , alludes to it , and predicts in regard to it that , when investigated , the optimum temperature will no doubt be found to vary with the hydrogen ion concentration of the medium.f That * Arthur Compton , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 245 ( 1914 ) ; B , vol. 88 , p. 258 ( 1914 ) .
+ S. P. L. Sorensen , ' Comptes Rendus des Travaux du Laboratoire de Carlsberg , ' vol. 8 , p. 148 ( 1909 ) .

