]\gt ; Sir William November 26 , 1891 .
Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , .D .
, Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Pursuant to notice , Alexander Agassiz , Dr. Benjamin Apthorpe Gould , Professor Eduard Strasburger , and Professol Pietro Tacchini wore balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
In pursuance of the tatutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\mdash ; President.\mdash ; Sir William Thomson , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\mdash ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secreiaries .
Foreign Secretary.\mdash ; Sir Archibald Geikie , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\mdash ; Captain William de Abney , C.B. ; William Thomas Blanford , F.G.S. ; Professor Crum Brown , D.Sc .
; Professor Georgs Carey Foster , B.A. ; Whitbread Les Cflaisher , D.Sc .
; Frederick Ducane Godman , .S .
; John Hopkinson , D.Sc .
; Professor Georgs Downing Living M.A. ; Professor Joseph Norman Lockyer , F.R.A.S. ; Professol Arthur Milnes Marshall , D.Sc .
; Philip Henry Pye-Smith , M.D. William Chandler Boberts-Austsn , F.C.S. ; Professor Edward Alberl Schafer , M.R.C.S. ; .
George Gabriel Stokes , Bart. , M.A. ; Pro fessor Sydney Howard Vines , .
; General James Thomas The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On Instability of Periodic Motion By Sir WILLIAN THOMSON , P.R.S. Beceived November 12 , 1891 .
1 .
Let be generalised coordinates of a system ; and let be the action in a path ( S 2 above ) from the configuration configuration with kinetic energy with any given constant value for the total energy ; V being the energy , of which the On Instability of Periodic foticn .
195 is given for every possible configuration of the system .
Let , . . . .
, and , . . . .
, be the generalised component momentumS of the system as it passes through the ations and respectively .
If by any means we have fully solved the problem of the motion of the system under the given forcive* ( of which is the potential energy ) , we know A for every given set of values of , . . . .
, V , . . . .
, that is to say , it is a known function of .
Then , by Hamilton 's principle [ Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy , ' S330 ( 18 ) ] , we have . .
( 1 ) .
, . . . .
' ' 2 .
Now let uato a particular path from position which for brevity we shall call , to position which we ] P. Let be a part of a known periodic path , from which is evidently little distant .
But first , whether is periodic or not , provided it is evidently near to , and provided and are infinitely near to , and , respectively , we , by Taylor 's theorem , and by . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) .
$ This is a term introduced by my brother , Professor Jnmes Thomson , to denote a force-system .
For any given value of , the sum of potential find kinetic energies , the problem of finding a path from any ition P to any position Pis determinate .
Its solution is , for each coordinate of the system , a determinate function of the coordinates which deflne and of , the time reckoned from the instant of passing The solution is single for the case of a particle moving under the infiuence of no forc6 ; every path being an infinite straight line .
For a single particle mov ng under tho influence of a uniform forco in parallel lines as gravity in small-sc{he terrestrinl ballistics ) the solution iS duplex or naginary .
For every constrainedly Anite system the solution is infinitely multiple ; as is virtually well known by every bmiard player for the case of a Boscovichian atom flying about within an enclosing urface , and by every tennis player for the with which he is concerned , their reflexions from wnUs or pavement .
, . . . .
, . .
values of , if .
; . .
( 3 ) .
4 .
Takin now , . . . .
, , . . . .
, . .
( 4 ) we have and , in virtue of this and of ( 3 ) and ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) becomes . .
( 6 ) , where , merely for simplicity of notation , we suppose the total number of freedoms of the system , that is to say , the total number of the coordinates , to be four ; and for brevity put , \amp ; . . . . . . .
( 7 ) .
5 .
From ( 6 ) we find , by ( 1 ) , . . . . . . .
( 8 ) .
, On Instability of Motion .
197 These equations allow us to determine the displacements , and the three corresponding momentums , , ?
/ , , for any positlon on the path , in terms of the initial values , , supposed known .
6 .
To introduce now our supposition ( S 2 ) that is part of a periodic path ; lot be a position on it between and and let us now , to avoid uity , it .
Let and now be taken to coincide in a position which we shall call ; in other words , , or OQO , be the complete periodic circuit , or orbib as ws may call it .
Our path is now a path infinitely near to this orbit , and and are two consecutive positions in it for which has the value zero .
These two positions are infinitely near to one another and to O. We shall call them , and , considering them as the positions on our pabh in which is zero for the time and for the time , from an earlier initial epoch than first passage through which we have been hitherto considering .
It is convenient now to modify our notation as follows:\mdash ; ; ? .
Here are the generalised components of distance from at the transit through of the system pursuing its path infinitely near to the orbit ; and are the corresponding momentum components .
With the notation of ( 9 ) , equations ( 8 ) become equations by which the values of these components for the time of transit through can be found from their values for the time .
They are equabions of finite differences , and are to be treated secundum , as follows:\mdash ; 7 .
Assume . . . . . . .
( l0 ) .
nbstituting accordingly ( 8 ) modified by ( 9 ) , and , we find Bemarking that , \amp ; c. , we see that the determinant VOL. L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 13 ) .
Let be the l.oots of equa , tion thus found .
The ing values of are In the case of any real value between 1 and -1 , it is con vellient to put . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 15 ) .
8 .
Suppose now , for the first time of through , the three coordinates and three corresponding momentums , , to be all given ; we find , where , . . . .
, are thirty-six fficionts which determined by the six equations ( 16 ) , with : and six equations ( 8 ) , modified by ( 9 ) ; with successively put , 2 3 , 4 , 5 ; with the given values substituted for in them ; and with for , \amp ; c. , their values by ( 16 ) .
9 .
Our result proves that every path infinitely near to th6 orbit ' unstable unless every of the equation for has a real valua between 1 and - It does not prove that the motion stable whel this condition is fulfilled .
Stability or instability for this case be tested without going to gher orders of approximation in the sideration of paths very nearly coincident with an orbit .
On ADDENDUII .
The subject of periodic , motion and its stability has been treated with great power M. Poincare in a , " " Sir lc Problem Trois Corps et les quations de la Dvnlamique for which the plize of His Majesty the King of Sweden was awarded on the January , 1889 .
This pape ] .
, nich has been published in -Lcffler 's ' Acta Mathematica 13 , 1 and 2 pp Stockholm , 1890 , only became known to me recently through Cayley .
I greatly interested to find in it much that bears upon the subject of my tion of June the Royal Society " " On bome Test Cases for the -Boltzmann Doctrine Distribution of Energy ; \ldquo ; in p. 239 , the following raph :\mdash ; " " On peut demontrel que dans le d'une ecloire fermee representant un solution periodique , soit stable , soit stable , il pass un infinite d'autres trajectoires fermees .
Cela suffit pas , en touto rigueur , pour conclure que tout region de l'espace , si petite qu'elle soit , est traversee par un infinite des trajectoires fermees , mais cela suffit poul .
donuer cette hypothese un haut calactere de vraisembl This statement is exceedingly in connexion with Maxwell 's fundamental supposition quoted in S 10 of my paper , " " that the system , if left to itself its actual state of motion , will , sooner .
later , pass through every phase is consistent with the equation of energy ; " " an sumption which Taxwell gives not as a conclusion , but as a proposition which ' we may with considerable confideuce asscrt , . . . .
except for pal'ticular forms of the surface of the fixed obstacle It will be seen that Poincal e 's " " hypothesis , having a high character of probability does not go so far as Iaxwell 's , which assel'ts that every portion of space is traversed } all directions by trajectory .
The conclusion which I gave in S 13 , as to mc quite ccrlain , " " thab every mode differs infinitely little from ) eing a fundamental mode is cleal .
lie a neces sary consoquence of faxwell 's upposition ; the truth of which sbll seems to me highly probable , provided exceptional cases are dealt ccith .
I also { ind the following statement , pp. 100\mdash ; 101 Il aura donc en general quantites distinctes .
Nous les appellerons les coefficients de de la solution iodique consideree .
" " Si ces coefficients sont tous roels eb negatifs , la solution periodique Citr les quaI ) and , resteront i un limit " " Il nc faut pas toutefois entendre ce mot de stabilite au SGI1S * The jectoire f\ldquo ; of M. is what I cnlled a " " mdanl .
mode of rigorously periodic motion or " " an \ldquo ; , p. 714 .
II .
" " A new Mode of Respiration in the Myriapoda By F. G. CLAIR ( formerly F. G. ) , , Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Received August 12 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The Scutigeridae respire by means of a series of arranged in the middle dorsal line at the posterior edge of every dorsal scale except the last .
Each consists of a slit bouuded by four curved ridges , two at the edges of the slit , and two external to the latter .
The slit leads into an air sac .
From the sac a number of tubes are given ofl ; tubes are arranged in two semicircular masses .
The ends of the tubes project into the pericardium in such a manner that the are bathed in the blood and it before it is returned into the heart by means of the ostia .
In the living animal the blood be seen through the transparent chitin of the dorsal surface surround ing the ends of the tubes ; and in the organ and surrounding tissuel cut out of a Scutigera directly it is killed , the bIood corpuscles can bb seen clustering round the tube ends .
If the mass of tubes of a freshly killed specimcn are teased out under the microscope in cerine , they can be seen to be filled with air .
The tubes each brauch several times .
Each tnbe is lined with chitin , which is a tion of the chitin of the .skeleton .
Each tube is also clothed with , which are a continuation of the hypodermis .
The tubes end in a blunt point of very delicate chitin .
Reasons for supposing these Organs to be 1 .
There are no other organs which could be supposed to be respi ratory in function .
2 .
The tubes are chitinous , and the chitin thin and

