533 The Flame Arising from the Nitrogen-burning Arc. By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 12 , 1911 .
) S 1 .
Introduction .
Sir William Crookes was the first to draw attention to the flame arising from the high-tension alternating arc in air , and to point out that it was connected with the oxidation of nitrogen.* It was extensively used by Lord Rayleigh in connection with the isolation of argon , when I first had the opportunity of becoming acquainted with it .
Of late years it has come into prominence in connection with the commercial manufacture of nitrogen compounds from the air , and is now within the purview of the electrical .engineer .
Some investigations upon which I have recently been engaged have thrown considerable light on the processes occurring in this flame .
The conclusions reached are not in agreement with some which have been expressed by other workers.f S 2 .
The Arc in Pure Gases and Air .
If a Ruhmkorff coil or other form of high-tension transformer is supplied with alternating current in the primary circuit , an arc can be struck between the secondary terminals , which , for experimental purposes , are best made of platinum .
A similar arc is obtained , using a continuous current interrupted by a Wehnelt or mercury turbine break .
It is convenient to begin by considering the appearance of this arc .
in pure gases .
In hydrogen the discharge is observed to stretch straight across between the electrodes , without appreciably rising into an arch .
In pure nitrogen the phenomena are similar , except that the discharge tends to rise into an arch , particularly if the terminals are widely separated .
In pure oxygen an arch is also formed .
In this gas the discharge has a bluish-white colour , and is much more diffuse than in the former ones .
To a casual examination it may have somewhat the appearance of a flame ; but the difference from the other pure gases is only one of degree .
Close examination shows- that there is nothing there but the true current-carrying arc itself.^ * 'Chem .
News , ' 1892 , vol. 65 , p. 301 .
+ bee , for instance , F. Howies , ' J. Soc. Chem. Industry , ' 1907 , vol. 26 , p. 290 .
% Compare Rayleigh and Ramsay , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 186 , p. 219 ( second paragraph ) .
Hon. It .
J. Strutt .
Flame [ July 12 , With air , an entirely new phenomenon makes its appearance .
The arc is there as before , stretching from one terminal to the other , with a slight rise in the middle .
But around , and more particularly above , it is an envelope of yellowish-green flame , which may rise to a considerable height above the arc , and terminates above in quite a sharp point , like a candle flame .
At atmospheric pressure the luminosity of the arc proper is so slight as to make it somewhat difficult to distinguish from the surrounding flame .
The flame , however , gives no violet rays , while the arc is rich in these rays .
Accordingly , the arc may be seen alone by examination through a deep violet glass , and then appears of about the same size and form as in pure nitrogen .
Fig. 1 shows a photograph of the air arc isolated in this way by a violet glass .
Fig. 2 shows a photograph taken with an hour 's exposure through a Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
combination of green and yellow glass , which excludes the violet rays , but transmits the yellow and green ones in which the flame is richest .
In this way a picture of the flame appears , without blurring by the intensely actinic glare of the arc proper .
The photograph hardly brings out the pointed tip of the flame as distinctly as might be wished .
This is probably due to the slight flickerings of the flame , inevitable during a long exposure .
The distinction between the arc and the flame may be made even clearer by another method , that of moderately reducing the air pressure .
A rose-coloured arc is then clearly seen , quite distinct in colour from the surmounting yellow-green flame , and separated from it by a slight dark interval .
Under these conditions it is quite obvious that the former alone carries the current ( fig. 3 ) .
The flame , which does not appear in pure gases , is due to secondary causes which will appear in the sequel .
If we continue to reduce the pressure , and at the same time draw the electrodes further apart , the yellow-green flame expands .
The phenomena become more conspicuous if , concomitantly with the reduction of pressure , the percentage of oxygen present is increased .
Finally , the yellow flame fills the whole vessel , which none the less remains cool enough to allow the hand Arising from the Nitrogen-burning Arc. 1911 .
] to be placed upon it .
The flame remains visible for a moment after the arc has been switched off ( fig. 4 ) .
Fig. 4 .
At this stage it is evident that the nitrogen flame is in no way distinct from the well-known " after-glow " sometimes observed in Geissler tubes filled with air*\#151 ; a luminosity which persists after the discharge is over .
This phenomenon I traced to its origin in a paper read before the Physical Society.-}* It will be convenient to briefly mention some of the experiments there described in detail .
* Not to be confounded with the glow due to active nitrogen , see ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1911 , vol. 85 , p. 219 .
t * Phys. Soc. Proc. , ' December 15 , 1910 , vol. 23 .
536 The Flame Arising from the Nitrogen-burning Arc. A current of rarefied air was drawn through a vacuum discharge tube by means of a power air pump .
It remained luminous with the characteristic greenish-yellow light leaving the discharge , but this luminosity was destroyed by passing through silver wire gauze .
Now , silver destroys ozone .
It appears , then , that ozone is hound up with formation of the glow .
The greenish-yellow glow is not , however , observed in the absence of nitrogen .
It was found that air deprived of the glow by silver gauze would glow again when more ozone was led into it .
The air therefore contained some second ingredient necessary to the glow .
This ingredient was concluded to be nitric oxide , formed by the discharge ; and it was shown that the glow could be reproduced by leading ozone into nitric oxide , chemically prepared .
It has been observed since that nitrogen peroxide gives the same result .
The glow then is due to the further oxidation by ozone of oxides of nitrogen already formed in the arc .
The arc supplies both ozone and nitrogen oxides , which combine , giving the greenish-yellow flame .
It is known that ozone will oxidise nitrogen peroxide to the pentoxide .
When nitric oxide is led in , it is oxidised in two stages , first to peroxide , then to pentoxide .
There is no doubt that the greenish-yellow flame is developed in the second stage ; for I find that it is produced when ready-made nitrogen peroxide is fed into a stream of ozone .
But if , as appears likely , the yellow-green luminosity is due to the nitrogen peroxide molecule , it may be evolved in the formation of that molecule from nitric oxide as well as in its subsequent further oxidation .
To sum up , the greenish-yellow flame from the high-tension alternating arc in air is shown to be in complete continuity with the " after-glow " phenomenon in vacuum tubes containing air .
The latter can , by suitable experimental analysis , be proved to be due to the further oxidation of oxides of nitrogen by ozone .
Accordingly it is concluded that the flame arising from the arc is due to the same cause .
The arc produces ozone and oxides \#166 ; of nitrogen .
These substances , independently produced , unite chemically in the region above and around it .
The greenish-yellow flame is developed in the process.* * It is right to mention that Muthman and Hofer , ' Ber .
, ' 1903 , vol. 36 , p. 440 , express the opinion , for which , however , they do not offer any experimental evidence , that oxidation of NO proceeds in the flame .
They do not mention ozone in this connection .

