1 .
" On the Saccharine Function of the Liver .
" By GEORGE HARLEY , M.D. , F.C.S. , Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in University College , London .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received Decernber 19 , 1859 .
Although it is nearly 200 years since our countryman , the celebrated Dr. Thomas Willis , made the important discovery of the occasional presence of sugar in the human urine , it was not , until very recently , known that the formation of saccharine matter is constantly going on in the healthy animal body .
Since Bernard , in 1848 , communicated to the French Academy the discovery of the saccharine function of the animal organism , physiologists in all countries have more or less directed to it their attention .
For a time various opinions were held by different observers regarding the origin of the sugar found in the body ; but at length it was generally admitted that the liver had the power of forming a substance to which Bernard gave the name Glucogen ; that this peculiar substance was transformed into sugar ; and that the sugar in its turn disappeared in the capillaries of the different organs and tissues of the body .
In the summer of 1858 , however , Dr. Pavy read a paper on the " Alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver " before the Royal Society , the object of which was to prove that the presence of sugar in the animal economy is " due to a post mortem occurrence , " -that as long as life continues , glucogen only is to be found , and not until after death does the transformation of this substance into sugar begin .
The question of the saccharine fiunction of the liver being a subject to which I have more or less directed my attention since 1853 , when I communicated to the Societe de Biologie de Paris an account of an experimental procedure whereby diabetes can be produced artificially in animals , the above-mentioned paper was to me one of pecuiliar interest .
The conclusions of the author were so much opposed to the results of my own experiments , as well as those of other observers , that I felt anxious to test them .
Accordingly , having received the kinid offer of Professor Sharpev%i cooperation , I undertook a series of experiments , the results of which I beg the honour of communicating to the Royal Society .
As the experiments performed were merely a repetition of some of those made by previous inquirers , I shall not enter into detail further than is necessary to explain the precautions adopted with the( view to avoid error .
And , looking at the object in view , it will readily be understood why in the present instance the tests employed for the detection of the sugar were limited to caustic potash with and without sulphate of copper .
The mode of proceeding was as follows : In testing the blood , a quantity of distilled water , equial to about four times that of the blood used , was boiled in a capsule , To the water , when boiling , were added a few drops of acetic acid , and afterwards the blood was very gradually introduced .
In order , that the albumen might be thoroughly coagulated , a drop or two more of acetic acid was added , care being taken to avoid an excess .
When the albumen was completely coagulated , which was known by its separating and floating in the clear liquid , the whole was thrown on a filter .
The clear filtered liquid was then tested .
The same process was followed when operating on the liver .
The first point to be ascertained was whether , under favourable circumstances as regarded diet , sugar could be found in the circulation .
The following experiment proved this .
Exp. 1 .
From the carotid artery of a rough terrier dog , three houirs after being fed on bread , milk , and boiled liver , a portion of blood equal to about three-fourths of an ounce was withdrawn .
This , on being treated in the manner explained , gave distinct evidence of the presence of sugar .
A second portion of blood , after standing thilrty-five minutes in a room of moderate temperature , yielded a similar result .
As in this instarnce a few seconds elapsed between the withdrawal of the first portion of blood and its treatment with the boiling acidulated water , and as it was possible that in these few seconds the sugar might have been formed from the glucogen present in the circulation , we ( Professor Sharpey and myself ) thought it advisable in our next experiment to allow the blood to flow directly from the artery into the boiling mixture , and thereby avoid the possibility of sugar being produced by the transformation of glucogen after the removal of the blood from the body .
It was further desired to operate on an animal in what might be considered its natural condition as to food .
Accordingly one that had been running at large was selected , and the following experiment performed : Exrp .
2 .
Into the left carotid artery of a small cocker dog was inserted a canula with a stopcock .
The animal was then placed so as to allow the blood to flow directly into the boiling acidulated water .
The clear filtered liquid from this blood became of a yellow tint on being boiled with soda , and gave a red precipitate with the sulphate of copper and potash , thereby indicating the presence of sugar .
Two ounces of blood from the same animal were similarly tested after the blood had stood twenty-four hours in a room of moderate temperature , and the result obtained was the same as with the first portion .
The next experiment was made on an animal under conditions , as regards food , unfavourable for the production of sugar .
In order , too , to avoid any chance of injuring the sympathetic nerve during the operation , and thereby favouring the formation of sugar in the body , the blood was withdrawn from the right femoral artery instead of the carotid .
The following are the particulars of the experiment : Exp. 3 .
A good-sized dog was fed solely on flesh during four days .
Three hours after the last meal , which conisisted of half a poulnd of boiled horseflesh , 1 &gt; oz. of blood was permitted to flow from the femoral artery directly into the boiling mixture .
The solution obtained from this blood , as in the other cases , colntained sugar .
Another portion of blood , after standing three hours , was tested in the same way , and , as far as could be judged by the eye , contained a similar proportion of stugar .
In neither of the preceding cases was the amount of sugar in the blood quantitatively determined , as I had already done so on many previous occasions ; and I knew that in healthy arterial blood it varied according to the state of the digestion , and the kind of food , from an inappreciable quantity up to 024 per cent.* Having been now satisfied that sugar is to be found in the blood of healthy animals at the very moment of its withdrawal from the circulation , even when none has been introduced along with the food , we next proceeded to test the grounds upon which it had been asserted that glucogen is not transformed into sugar in the healthy liver during life .
In the paper already referred to , Dr. Pavy stated that the sudden abstraction of heat from the liver after its removal from the body , checks the transformation of the sugar-forming material , and thereby enables us to operate on the hepatic substance while in the same chemical condition as during life .
The plan he recommends is to sacrifice a dog by pithing , and instantly to slice off a piece of liver , and throw it into a freezing mixture of ice and salt .
In which case he says the absence of sugar is almost complete , and thence concludes that the presence of sugar in the liver can no longer be looked upon as a " natural ante mortem condition ; " but " is in reality due to a post mortem occurrence .
" In the following experiments , not only was the plan recommelnded most scrupulously followed , but even the risk of the glucogen in the liver becoming transformed into sugar during the process of preparing the decoction , was avoided by cutting the frozen liver into thin slices , and allowing them , while still in that condition , to fall directly into the boiling mixture of acetic acid and water .
The liver was in this way prevented from thawing until it entered a medium as capable of arresting the transformation of its glucogen into sugar as the cold .
The decoction so obtained might therefore be presumed to contain the soluble matters as nearly as possible in the same chemical state as they were in the living organ .
Exp. 4 .
A small , but full-grown dog was fed during fourteen days solely on animal food .
Four hours after a meal of boiled horseflesh he was killed by section of the medulla oblongata .
The abdomen was rapidly opened , and a portion of liver cut off and instantly immersed in a freezing mixture of ice and salt .
A second portion of liver was as speedily as possible detached , and quickly washed in cold water .
The latter portion was then , without loss of time , cut into fragments , which were allowed to fall directly into boiling acidulated water .
On testing the clear filtrate , distinct evidence of the presence of sugar was obtained .
After half an hour , the frozen portion of liver was taken , without being allowed to thaw , and sliced directly into the boiling water with acetic acid .
The clear liquLid yielded in this case as distinct evidence of sugar as in the other .
Forty minutes after the death of the animal , another portion of liver , which till then had remained undisturbed in the abdomen , was treated like the others .
This gave evidence of containing a much greater quantity of sugar , thus confirming Bernard 's statement , that the transformation of glucogen goes on in the liver after its removal from the body , or after the death of the animal .
In order to be perfectly certain that the sugar found in the liver at the instant of its removal from the body was really formed where it was found , and not carried there by the portal blood from the food , the following experiment was performed : Exp. 5 .
A dog was fed during ten days on boiled tripe .
Twentytwo hours after the last meal the animal was pithed .
In less than twenty seconds a portion of the liver was in the freezing mixture of ice and salt .
While I boiled directly another portion of liver , Professor Sharpey put a ligature on the portal vein , and collected its blood .
He likewise collected some of the hepatic blood which flowed from the cut liver .
In the portal blood not a trace of sugar could be detected .
The hepatic blood , on the other hand , gave distinct evidence of its presence .
Both bloods were tested exactly alike .
The clear liquids obtained from the frozern liver and from the portion treated directly , notwithstanding that they were filtered while hot , and also tested while still hot , both gave distinct evidence of sugar .
On the foliowing day a second portion of portal blood , which had been purposely kept all night in order to ascertain if , on standing some time , sugar would form in it , still yielded the same negative result .
Even after treating it with saliva , which would have transformed its glucogen into sugar , had it contained any , no evidence of the presence of sugar was obtained .
On the other hand , when saliva was added to the decoctions of the liver above spoken of , a great increase in the amount of sugar was observed .
The quantity of sugar so obtained did not appear to be so great , however , as that yielded by a portion of the liver which remained all night untouched in the abdomen of the animal .
Professor Garrod , F.R.S. , who was present , not at the commencement of the experiment , but on the following day , when the different decoctions were tested , agreed with Professor Sharpey and myself , that this experiment showed the truith of Bernard 's statement , that the liver might contain both sugar and glincogenl when the portal blood contained neither .
The stomach and intestines of this animal were found void of food ; the large intestine only contained fbecal matter .
For the sake of still further assurance that the sugar found in the liver was neither due to some accidental cause , nor immediately derived from food , we determined to deprive an animal of food for some days before examnining the liver .
The following experiment was accordingly performed : Exp. 6 .
A very large and powerful dog , in admirable condition , was subject to a rigid fast for seventy-two hours-three full days .
Immediately after death , by section of the medulla oblongata , a portion of the liver was sliced off and immersed in ice and salt .
Blood was then collected from the following sources : 1st .
From the portal vein .
2ndly .
From the liver ( i. e. blood which flowed from the liver when a portion of it was sliced off ) .
3rdly .
From the right side of the heart .
4thly .
From the aorta .
5thly .
From the inferior velna cava .
Although these bloods were all treated in a similar mannier , and tested with the same quantities of copper and soda , yet none of them gave unequivocal evidence of the presence of sugar , except that from the liver .
The blood from the right side of the heart gave doubtful evidence .
At first sight it may appear strange that the blood from the right side of the heart should contain scarcely an appreciable quantity of sugar , while that of the liver showed its presence very obviously ; but this no doubt arose from the hepatic blood being in great part prevented from reaching the heart : 1st , on accouint of most of it escaping into the abdomen , when the portion of liver was cut off and 2ndly , on account of its flow being in great measure arrested by the ligature of the portal vessels .
All the bloods , except the hepatic , seemed to be free of glucogeni as well as sugar ; for none of them , with that exception , gave any evidence of its presence after being treated with saliva in the usual way .
On examiniationi of the frozeni liver ( after three hours ) , which , as in the other cases , was not allowed to thaw before being put into boiling water , the decoction was found to reduce the copper readily .
On opening the stomach , nothing was found in it except some neutral mucus .
The intestines were equally destitute of food , and in the rectum only a very small quantity of feeces was found ; so there could be no doubt as to the animal being in a fasting condition .
The only point now remaining , was to determine quantitatively the increase in the amount of sugar in the liver after its removal from the body , and for that purpose we preferred operating on aln animal fed on a mixed diet .
Exp. 7 .
A small dog , which had been previously fed on animal diet , received a full meal of bread and milk .
Five hours afterwards the animal was pithed , and a portion of the liver rapidly sliced off and immersed in a freezing mixture .
A ligature was placed on the portal vein , and its blood collected before the circulation had ceased .
On examination , this blood was founid to contain a small quantity of sugar , derived no doubt from the food .
Bernard , I believe , has erred in supposing that all the saccharine matter found in the animal organism is formed out of the glucogen produced in the liver .
This , no doubt , is the case in the carnivora when the diet is restricted to food inconvertible into sugar in the alimentary canal , but cannot be regarded as the natural state of things either in the omnivora or herbivora ; for the food of the latter not only contains sugar , but its amylaceous elements may be converted into that substance in the process of digestion .
The sugar found in the bodies of animals fed on a mixed diet ought therefore to be regarded partly as the direct product of the food , and partly as derived from the glucogen formed in the liver .
Bernard 's chief argument against this view is founded on the fact that the livers of dogs fed on a mixed diet contain no more sugar than those fed on purely animal food .
In my opinion , however , this fact is not sufficient to decide the question ; for , as the liver does not store up sugar , the quantity it at any time contains is no criterion of the amount produced in it .
Moreover , the sugar derived from the food need not be expected to be found in the liver .
HIad Bernard gauged the sugar )resent in the bloocl , instead of that in the liver , after each kind of diet , the result obtained would , I believe , have led him to a different conclusion .
This being a point of great practical importance in the treatment of diabetes , I may be here permitted to mention that I have occasionally found nearly twice as much sugar in the blood of an animal on a mixed , than in that of one feeding on a purely flesh diet .
To return to the last experiment .
About two hours after the death of the animal , portions of the frozen part of the liver , and of that which had been kept warm in the body of the animal , were carefully weighed , and the proportions of sugar they respectively contained estimated by volumetric analysis .
The portion of frozen liver was found to contain 0333 per cent. , and that of the other 1 55 per cent. of saccharine matter .
It is thus seeln that in two hours the sugar in the liver had augmented nearly fivefold .
As Bernard has shown , the simple washing out of the liver by passing a stream of water through its vessels , would remove all the sugar anteriorly formed .
On placing it again aside for a short time , a fresh portion of sugar would form in it at the expense of glucogen .
0 333 per cent. of sugar seems a small quantity ; but if we suppose a liver weighing , as in man , not less than 50 oz. , to contain 0 333 per cent. , above 70 grs. of sugar would be present in it at the moment of death , -no very insignificant quantity , when it is recollected that sugar is removed from the liver with every pulsation of the heart , to be partly consumed , and that it is as continually supplied by the organ .
The results of the experiments now related do not therefore ill any way countenance the notion that sugar is not produced in the healthy animal body .
On the contrary , such conclusions as they afford are altogether in favour of the generally received views upon the subject .
From the preceding experiments the following conclusions may be drawn:1st .
Sugar is a normal constituent of the blood of the general circulation .
2ndly .
Portal blood of an animal on mixed diet contains sugar .
3rdly .
Portal blood of a fasting animal , as well as of ain animal fed solely on flesh , is devoid of suLgar .
4thly .
The livers of dogs contain sugar , whether the diet is animal or vegetable .
5thly .
Under favourable circumstances , saccharine matter may be found in the liver of an animal after three entire days of rigid fasting .
6thly .
The sugar found in the bodies of animals fed on mixed food is partly derived directly from the food , partly formed in the liver .
7thly .
The livers of animals restricted to flesh diet possess the power of forming glueogen , which glueogen is at least in part transformed into sugar in the liver ; -an inference which does not exclude the probability of glucogen ( like starch in the vegetable organism ) being transfolmed into other materials besides sugar .
8thly .
As sugar is found in the liver at the moment of death , its presence cannot properly be ascribed to a post mnortem change , but is to be regarded as the result of a natural condition .

