The following communication was read , viz. ?
" Variation of the Magnetic Declination , Horizontal Intensity , and Inclination observed at Milan on the 23rd and 24th December 1840 .
" Communicated by Professor Carlini , Director of the Milan Observatory .
A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Chorda dorsalis .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S.S. L. &amp; E. The author of this communication , after pointing out the similarity in appearance between an object noticed by him in the mammiferous ovum , and the incipient chorda dorsalis described by preceding observers in the ova of other Vertebrata , mentions some essential differences between his own observations and those of others as to the nature and mode of origin of these objects , and their relation to surrounding parts .
Von Baer , the discoverer of the chorda dorsalis , describes this structure as " the axis around which the first parts of the foetus form .
" Reichert supposes it to be that embryonic structure which serves as " a support and stay " for parts developed in two halves .
The author 's observations induce him to believe that , instead of being " the axis around which the first parts of the foetus form , " the incipient chorda is the last-formed row of cells , which have pushed previously-formed cells farther out , and that , instead of being merely " a support and stay " for parts developed in two halves , the incipient chorda occupies the centre out of which the " two halves " originally proceeded as a single structure , and is it ?
self in the course of being enlarged by the continued origin of fresh substance in its most internal part .
The author enters into a minute comparison of the objects in question ; from which it appears that the incipient chorda is not , as Baer supposed , developed into a globular form at the fore end , but that the linear part is a process from the globular ; and that the pellucid cavity contained within the latter ?
a part of prime importance , being the main centre for the origin of new substance ?
is not mentioned by Von Baer .
Farther , that the origin of the " laminae dorsales " of this naturalist ( the " central nervous system " of Reichert ) is not simultaneous with , but anterior to , that of the chorda .
The author then reviews the observations of Rathke and Reichert on the chorda dorsalis , which contain internal evidence , he thinks , of a process in the development of Fishes , Reptiles , and Birds , the same as that which he has observed in Mammalia ; namely , the ori ?
gin of the embryo out of the nucleus of a cell .
And it is his opinion that this observation may assist to solve a question on which physiologists are not agreed ; for it shows , that if the nucleus of a cell is a single object , the first rudiments of the embryo are not two halves .
The author thinks that unless the very earliest periods are investigated , it is in vain that we attempt to learn what that is , of which the rudiments of the embryo are composed .
From not attending to this , physiologists have supposed their " primitive trace " to arise in the substance of a membrane , which the author , in his second series on the embryo , showed could not be the case .
To the same cause he thinks is referable an opinion re ?
cently advanced by Reichert , that the first traces of the new being are derived from cells of the yelk .

