The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" On the Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on Vegetable Colours .
" By Sir John Frederick William Herschel , Bart. , K.H. , F.R.S. The author , having prosecuted the inquiry , the first steps of which he communicated in a paper read to the Royal Society in February 1840 , relating to the effects of the solar spectrum on the colouring matter of the Viola tricolor , and on the resin of guaiacum , re ?
iates , in the present paper , the results of an extensive series of similar experiments , both on those substances , and also on a great number of vegetable colours , derived from the petals of flowers , and the leaves of var ious plants .
In the case of the destruction of colour of the pre ?
parations of guaiacum , which takes place by the action of heat , as well as by the more refrangible rays of light , he ascertained that although the non-luminous thermic rays produce an effect , in as far as they communicate heat , they are yet incapable of effecting that peculiar chemical change which other rays , much less copiously endowed with heating power , produce in the same experiment .
He also found that the discoloration produced by the less refrangible rays is much accelerated by the application of artificial terrestrial heat , whether communicated by conduction or by radiation ; while , on the other hand , it is in no degree promoted by the purely there ?
mic rays beyond the spectrum , acting under precisely similar circumstances , and in an equal degree of condensation .
The author proceeds to describe , in great detail , the photographic effects produced on papers coloured by various vegetable juices , and afterwards washed with solutions of particular salts ; and gives a minute account of the manipulations he employed for the purpose of imparting to paper the greatest degree of sensitiveness to the action of solar light .
This action he found to be exceedingly various , both as regards its total intensity and the distribution of the active rays over the spectrum .
He observed , however , that the following peculiarities obtain almost universally in the species of action exerted .
First , the action is positive ; that is to say , light destroys colour , either totally , or leaving a residual tint , on which it has no further , or a very much slower action ; thus effecting a sort of chromatic ana ?
lysis , in which two distinct elements of colour are separated , by de ?
stroying the one and leaving the other outstanding .
The older the paper , or the tincture with which it is stained , the greater is the amount of this residual tint .
Secondly , the action of the spectrum is confined , or nearly so , to the region of it occupied bythe luminous rays , as contra-distinguished both from the so-called chemical rays beyond the violet , ( which act with chief energy on argentine compounds , but are here for the most part ineffective , ) on the one hand , and on the other , from the thermic rays beyond the red , which appear to be totally ineffective .
Indeed , the author has not hitherto met with any instance of the extension of this description of photographic action on vegetable colours beyond , or even quite up to the extreme red .
Besides these , the author also observed that the rays which are effective in destroying a given tint , are , in a great many cases , those whose union produces a colour compiementary to the tint destroyed , or at least one belonging to that class of colours to which such com ?
piementary tint may be referred .
Yellows tending towards orange , for example , are destroyed with more energy by the blue rays ; blues by the red , orange and yellow rays ; purples and pinks by yellow and green rays .
These phenomena may be regarded as separating the luminous rays by a broadly defined line of chemical distinction from the non-iuminous ; but whether they act as such , or in virtue of some peculiar chemical quality of the heat which accompanies them as heat , is a point which the author considers his experiments on guaiacum as leaving rather equivocal .
In the latter alternative , he observes , chemists must henceforward recognise , in heat from different sources , differences not simply of intensity , but also of quality ; that is to say , not merely as regards the strictly chemical changes it is capable of effecting in ingredients subjected to its influence .
One of the most remarkable results of this inquiry has been the discovery of a process , circumstantially described by the author , by which paper washed over with a solution of ammonio-citrate of iron , dried , and then washed over with a solution of ferro-sesquicyanuret of potassium , is rendered capable of receiving with great rapidity a photographic image , which , from being originally faint and sometimes scarcely perceptible , is immediately called forth on being washed over with a neutral solution of gold .
The picture does not at once acquire its full intensity , but darkens with great rapidity up to a certain point , when the resulting photograph attains a sharpness and perfection of detail which nothing can surpass .
To this process the author applies the name of Chrysotype , to recall to mind its analogy with the Calotype process of Mr. Talbot , to which in its general effect it affords so close a parallel .

