68 Examination of Gases from Mineral Waters .
[ Nov. 28 , The air was breathed over and over again by Mr. Moris , until after 10 minutes ' respiration its composition had become :\#151 ; Nitrogen and argon ... ... ... . .
8096 per cent. Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5"40 , , Carbon dioxide ... ... ... ... ... 13"64 " 100-00 " An estimation of the argon was carried out in precisely the same manner as before , on 1297'8 c.c. of breathed air , measured at 17-2 ' C. and 759 mm. pressure .
But the air was breathed over water , the requisite change of volume on respiration having been secured by breathing into one of Dr. Marcet 's counterpoised gas-holders .
The argon found measured at 17-7 ' C. and 752'3 mm. pressure , 12-85 c.c. These numbers corrected give :\#151 ; 1196 c.c. of breathed air yielded 1T72 c.c. of argon .
100 c.c. " " 0-980 c.c. of argon .
Calculating the percentage on the nitrogen , we have :\#151 ; 100 c.c. of nitrogen and argon of breathed air contains 1'210 c.c. This percentage is larger than that in normal air .
One of two suppositions may be made : either the increased amount is due to the air having been confined over water during breathing , or argon is given off from blood in greater amount than it is absorbed , when the composition of the air in the lungs is so much altered ; the former appears the more probable supposition .
In any case the difference is not great ; and it would appear that argon , like free nitrogen , plays no important part in the animal economy , save as a diluent .
HI .
" Examination of Gases from certain Mineral Waters .
" By ' ALEXANDER KELLAS , B.Sc. , and WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1895 .
A sample of gas of an inflammable nature , sent to Mr. Crookes by Mr. C. Lothian Bell , of Middlesbrough , from " Ailhusen 's Well , " was sent on to us to be tested for argon .
The usual constituents , nitrogen , hydrocarbons , \amp ; c. , were removed by the usual absorbents , magnesium , copper oxide , \amp ; c. , and finally by sparking with oxygen over caustic soda .
The only noticeable feature was the great difficulty in removing the hydrocarbon , which for long resisted the action of red-hot copper oxide .
The circulation had to be continued for two days before absorption lyas nearly complete .
In one case ( Kellas ) 555 c.c. of gas gave 2 c.c. of residue , and in another ( Ramsay ) 1895 .
] On the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
950 c.c. gave 4'5 c.c. This corresponds to about 04 per cent , of indifferent gas .
The first portion was unfortunately lost , but the spectrum of the second portion was carefully compared with that of argon , and the lines were all found to be coincident .
No new lines appeared , nor was any helium yellow visible .
An incombustible gas from another well at the same place was also tested , and was found to contain 05 per cent , of argon ( Kellas ) .
Some gas from a boiling spring near Reykjavik , Iceland , was collected last autumn ( Ramsay ) , and , on removing the combinable constituents , 7'45 c.c. were obtained from 660 c.c. of the gas .
This is a greater proportion of argon than is present in air , being 1T4 per cent. No helium could be detected in the gas , nor were there any lines which could not be recognised as belonging to argon .
It has been thought worth while to place on record these experiments , although they show nothing remarkable .
We have to express our indebtedness to Mr. Noel Heaton for help kindly rendered .
IV .
" Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
III .
Regression , Heredity , and Panmixia .
" By Karl Pearson , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Henrici , F.R.S. Received September 28 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to develop the methods and generalise the conclusions of Mr. Francis Gallon 's work on ' Natural Inheritance .
' It endeavours to show the wide field which a purely statistical ( as distinguished from a mechanical or physiological ) theory of heredity may be made to cover .
In order to do this it is needful to define certain biological terms in such a jnanner that they are capable of quantitative measurement , the symbols in terms of which they are expressed being the standard-deviations , correlation-coefficients , and regression-coefficients already well known from the labours of Mr. Galton .
The fundamental assumption made is that the distribution of variation in any organ or characteristic follows the normal law .
It is pointed out that this distribution , although very general , is not absolute , and that , especially in cases of disease and heredity , we require the consideration of skew-variation and skew-correlation .
The quantities mathematically defined are variation , correlation , natural , sexual and reproductive selection , heredity , regression , and panmixia .
The definitions given agree in part with those already adopted by Mr. Galton or Professor Weldon .
At some points they extend or develop the ideas of those naturalists .
In particular the author finds it necessary to emphasise the distinction between two

