269 On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles.\#151 ; Eighth Note .
By C. S. Sherrington , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. V'j , ( Received April 17 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) fc The following note deals more especially with observations on inhibition occurring in instances of " reciprocal innervation " obtained as a spinal reflex reaction .
My view is that inhibition of this kind is part and parcel of the normal reflex process , so that in a reflex it goes on side by side with excita-\#174 ; k tion of other muscles opposed to those wThich are inhibited.* One main consideration which supported the view is the correspondence of the skin- fields whence the reflex contraction of the one set of muscles and the \#166 ; fa inhibition of the opposed set of muscles can be elicited .
So , also , the correspondence of the afferent nerve-trunks , and of the points of surface of the central nervous system whence are elicited the two effects .
But to test the view further , I have now attempted to examine in some particulars the conditions attaching to the initiation , and the course run by the two phenomena under comparable circumstances .
I. Even in one and the same spinal region the modes of origination , time-relations , etc. , of the several types of reflex elicitable , .
, in the dog 's hind limb , the " extensor thrust , " the " direct-flexion reflex , " the " scratch reflex , " differ so greatly for each of the types as compared with the others , that in order to compare the inhibition phenomenon with the excitation phenomenon it is important to take both the phenomena from the same type-reflex .
The type-reflex I have taken for the purpose has been the " direct-flexion reflex " of the hind limb .
Each such type-reflex has features characteristic of it .
A salient feature of this reflex chosen is flexion at the knee .
For comparison of the inhibition and excitation respectively both hind limbs are taken and so prepared that in one leg only the knee flexors can act , in the other leg only the knee extensors .
The stimuli to provoke the reflex are applied either to symmetrical skin-points or to symmetrical afferent nerves at , as far as practicable , symmetrical places in their course .
For comparison the stimuli are made as far as possible equal on the two sides .
This being arranged certain characteristic features of the reflex have been examined on the two sides respectively .
( a ) The " flexion reflex " has a " receptive skin-field " which though * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , p. 556 , 1893 .
270 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 ) extensive is characteristic for it .
Examined by the above preparation the skin-field whence the excitation ( contraction ) is elicitable and that whence the inhibition is elicitable has proved in my observations to be one and the same .
Thus : stigmatic unipolar faradisation of a point in the skin of a right pedal digit provokes in the homonymous limb contraction of the flexors of the knee , and similar stimulation of the corresponding left digit provokes in its own limb inhibition of the extensors of the knee .
Again , similar stimulation of the skin of the fore-foot ( in my experience that of the crossed fore-foot acts more readily than that of the homonymous ) induces excitation ( contraction ) of the flexors of the crossed knee ; and the corresponding skin-region of the opposite fore-limb induces inhibition ( relaxation ) of the extensors of knee contralateral to it .
( / 3 ) Turning to stimuli other than electrical it is not , as I have pointed out , every form of stimulus that , when applied within the skin-field appropriate for the " direct-flexion reflex , " can excite it .
The kinds of skin-stimuli which excite it are those which may be termed " nocuous , " * e.g. , a prick , strong squeeze , harmful heat ( the heat-beam ) , chemical agents .
Touches , innocuous pressures , rubbing , etc. , though effective for various reflexes , e.g. , for the " extensor thrust , " " scratch reflex , " " pinna reflex , " etc. , do not in my experience excite this reflex .
The stimuli which do excite it , for instance , from the planta , excite , when applied on the side where the flexor muscles alone remain intact , contraction of those muscles , and when applied correspondingly on the opposite side , where the extensors alone remain intact , inhibit them ( relaxation ) .
( 7 ) The nerve-twig , similar to that which under faradisation on the " flexors " side excites the flexors ( contraction ) when faradised on the " extensors " side inhibits the extensors ( relaxation ) .
This comparison has been made not only with skin-nerves , but with muscular nerves , notably with the nerves of the hamstring muscles and of the gastrocnemius .
( 8 ) The " flexion reflex , " although it exhibits well the potency of summation of successive stimuli as a factor in its initiation , differs in my experience from various other reflexes , !
e.g. , " extensor thrust , " " scratch reflex , " " pinna reflex , " in being elicitable fairly easily by a single induction shock .
The shock may be applied either to the skin in the receptive skin-field of the reflex or to an appropriate afferent nerve either cutaneous or muscular .
When this is done in the prepared limbs the single induction shock applied on the " flexors " side excites a brief reflex contraction of those muscles , correspondingly applied on the " extensors " side it provokes a brief reflex inhibition of those muscles .
* Sherrington , 4 Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 39 , 1903 .
t Cf .
Stirling,4 Arbeiten a. d. Physiol. Anstalt z. Leipzig , ' 1874 .
f r W w m f M $ \#166 ; 's i % fWi .
iq col\#174 ; iii ' stas mm foil 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
271 ( e ) The " flexion reflex .
" unlike " extensor thrust , " " pinna reflex , " etc. , can be well evoked in my experience by make or break of a galvanic current .
This make or break reflex is shown in the " extensor " preparation by inhibition , just as it is shown in the " flexor " preparation by contraction .
With suitable strength of stimulus the break of a descending current is more effective for the reflex inhibition than the make , and versed for an ascending current , just as with contraction .
The " flexion reflex " can also to a much greater extent than can the scratch reflex be maintained by passage of the constant current .
In this respect it resembles the vasomotor and respiratory reflexes examined by Griitzner* and by Langendorff and 01dag , f and also the sensual reaction which similar stimulation excites in ourselves\#151 ; a point of interest when the connection between nociceptive reflexes and dolorous sensation is remembered .
When the constant current is thus applied to the limb in which the extensors have been prepared , inhibition proceeds in them as does contraction in the flexors when that current is similarly applied to the limb in which the flexors have been prepared .
( \#163 ; ) The latent time of the " flexion reflex " is throughout my experience shorter than that of some Other reflexes of the limb , notably than that of the " scratch reflex .
" This feature is revealed in the inhibition of the extensors just as in the contraction of the flexors .
Great differences of latency in the " flexion reflex " as in other reflexes can be obtained by , apart from variance in intrinsic condition of the reflex preparation , variance in the external stimuli in intensity , suddenness , frequency of repetition , etc. The effect of such variations is the same in kind , and , in my experience , in extent , when tested by the reflex inhibition as when tested by the reflex contraction .
Thus with strong stimuli I have found as short a latency as 32 a for the inhibition , which is slightly shorter than the shortest for contraction under like circumstances that I have yet met with .
With weak stimuli I have occasionally met with a latency as long as 400 a for each effect .
( rj)A good criterion of comparison between the reflex inhibition and the reflex contraction in the " flexion reflex " under excitation by an intermittent stimulus is the number of stimuli summed for initiation of the reflex as exhibited on the one hand in contraction of the flexors , on the other hand in relaxation of the extensors .
The number of successive single stimuli summed for the initiation is less as their individual intensity is greater.* When the summation is compared , in the same reflex preparation , in the reflex exhibited as inhibition ( relaxation ) in the knee extensors of one limb * ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' vol. 17 , p. 238 , 1878 .
+ Ibid. , vol. 59 , p. 206 , 1894 .
t W. Stirling , ' Arbeiten a. d. Physiol. Anstalt z. Leipzig , ' 1874 , p. 239 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. I7v 'Time in '01 " electromagnet of primary circuit Myograph Time in Figs. 1a and 1b.\#151 ; The " flexion reflex " observed as reflex contraction ( excitation ) of the flexor muscle of the knee ( fig. 1a ) and as reflex relaxation ( inhibition ) of the extensor muscle of the knee ( fig. 1b ) .
The afferent nerve stimulated is a twig ot the internal saphenous below the knee .
The stimulation is by a series of break induction currents , the number and frequency of which is shown by the electromagnetic record of the breaks and makes of the constant current feeding the primary spiral of the induetorium through a rotating key .
The distance of the seconckuy 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic 273 Fig. 1b .
TimeHn .01 " electromagnet of primary , circuit Myograph Time in 1 " coil from the primary remained the same in the two observations ( figs. 1a and 1b ) .
The observation of fig. 1b was made from the same preparation as fig. 1a and about 4 minutes later .
The moment of delivery of the individual stimuli is marked by the abscissae on the myogram : in fig. 1a six were delivered before the refiex contraction set in ; similarly in fig. 1b , six were delivered before the reflex.relaxation set in .
The intensity of the stimulating shocks was feeble , hence the relatively long latent period .
Time recorded in hundredth seconds above , in seconds below .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 , Fig. 2a .
Time in .01 " electromagnet of primary circuit Myograph Time in 1 " Figs. 2a and 2b.\#151 ; The " flexion reflex " observed as reflex contraction ( excitation ) of the flexor muscle of the knee ( fig. 2a ) and as reflex relaxation ( inhibition ) of the extensor muscle of the knee ( fig. 2b ) .
Conditions the same as in fig. 1 , except that secondary coil of inductorium is nearer to primary , and therefore stimulation more intense .
The latency is therefore shorter than in the pair of observations yielding fig. 1 .
1 ' fig. 2a the first three stimuli fall within the latent period ; in fig. 2b the first two 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
2 Fig. 2b .
Time in .01 " electromagnet of primary t circuit Myograph Time in 1 " stimuli only .
The reflex contraction excited is more vigorous and prolonged than with the weaker stimuli of fig. 1 .
( The myograph lever at the top of its ascent has touched the carrier of the electromagnetic signal , and its further record is retarded until it begins to descend .
) Electromagnetic records of interruptions of constant current in primary circuit , and of time , as in figs. 1a and 1b .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17( and in the reflex exhibited as contraction in the knee flexors of the other limb good agreement is found ; the number has been often actually the same though the observations are made alternately first one on one limb , then one on the other limb .
Figs. 1a and 1b , and 2a and 2b are such pairs , and illustrate the kind of agreement .
( 0 ) The course of the " flexion reflex " as shown in myograms differs much from that of certain other reflexes of the limb , notably from the " extensor thrust " and from the " scratch reflex .
" Its duration broadly speaking follows more closely than that of those reflexes the ' duration of the eliciting stimulus .
If the stimulus is quite brief and not intense the myogram shows but a short continuance of the development of the effect after the external stimulus itself has ceased .
I \gt ; have instances of this which appear not fully explicable by inertia of recording apparatus .
The after-effect is longer when the stimulus is more intense .
In both respects the reflex inhibition approximates to the reflex contraction .
The " flexion reflex " by adjustment of the intensity of the stimulus can be graded as to its amplitude .
This grading is seen not only as a grading of the amplitude of contraction of the flexors when the stimulus is applied to the limb with intact knee flexors , but as a grading of the amplitude of relaxation when the stimulus is applied to the limb with intact knee extensors .
These correspondences support the view that the reflex inhibition ( relaxation ) and the reflex excitation ( contraction ) are part and parcel of one and the same reflex reaction ; and that although opposite in direction they are co-ordinate reciprocal factors in one united response .
II .
It was previously showrn that stimulation of the afferent nerve of the flexor muscles of the knee inhibits the knee jerk elicitable from the extensor muscle of that joint ; * and that it inhibits the tonus of that muscle.f In the case of certain other muscular combinations it was further shown that the reaction which throws one set of muscles into active contraction can inhibit not only the tonus of the antagonistic set but also can cut short their active contraction.^ !
I find this inhibition of an active reflex contraction in the antagonistic muscles is also demonstrable as a spinal reflex with the muscles at the knee joint .
It can be studied by stimulating the central end of the hamstring nerve during the production of a " crossed extension reflex " elicited by appropriate stimulation of the opposite leg ( figs. 3 and 4 ) ; or by stimulating under similar circumstances , namely during production of the * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , 1893 .
t Ibid. , vol. 60 , 1896 .
t 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 17 , 1894 ; ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' March , 1904 , Address to Section I , Brit. Assoc. , 1904 .
h 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
277 % si .
bi m ike ecu ii k ii of* lot its :\#166 ; q * Fig 3.-\#151 ; -Myograph record of reflex contraction of extensor of knee interrupted by a reflex inhibition ( relaxation ) .
The reflex contraction was induced by stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) of the skin of the opposite foot : this stimulation was applied during the time marked by the lower signal ; its movements of commencement and ending are marked by abscissae on the myogram .
Towards the height of the reflex contraction a brief stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) was applied to the skin of the foot homonymous with the knee extensor yielding the myogram : the duration of this inhibiting stimulus is marked by the upper signal .
The knee extensor at outset was in some tonic contraction due to " decerebrate rigidity .
" The reflex inhibition relaxes this in addition to inhibiting the current reflex from the crossed foot .
Time is marked below in fifths of seconds .
278 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 .
; " crossed extension reflex " an afferent nerve or point of skin suitable for L , exciting the " flexion reflex " in its own limb .
The same is demonstrable also |t .
^ in the fore limb with the muscles acting antagonistically at the elbow .
The phenomenon can be also obtained at the knee in the direction reverse to that f illustrated by the above example ; while an isolated hamstring muscle is recording its reflex contraction by the myograph in response to appropriate stimulation of the skin of its own limb , the " crossed extension reflex " is Fig. 4.\#151 ; Similar to fig. 3 , except that the inhibiting stimulus was weak faradisation applied to the proximal end of the severed " hamstring nerve .
" induced .
Inhibition of the active reflex contraction of the hamstring muscle occurs , and its extent can be graded as mentioned above and illustrated iu the tracing figured here ( fig. 5 ) .
The inhibition can take effect either during the application of the stimulus that excites the reflex inhibited or during the after-discharge of that reflex .
In the former case the interrupted reflex contraction returns\#151 ; at least it does 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
279 so in many instances\#151 ; if the inhibiting stimulus is discontinued before the discontinuance of the stimulus inducing the reflex contraction ( figs. 3 and 4 ) .
In the latter case , namely , that of inhibition of reflex " after-discharge , " the reflex contraction is often permanently cut short ( fig. 5 ) .
The inhibitory effect differs , markedly from the effect of mere cessation of the stimulus exciting the reflex contraction ( figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 ) .
It acts more quickly , and , if strong , it relaxes the antagonistic muscle to a greater extent than does mere cessation of the stimulus exciting the active contraction .
It depresses not Fig. 5.\#151 ; Myograph record of reflex contraction of semimembranosus induced by stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) of the skin of the homonymous foot .
The duration of this stimulus is marked by the upper signal .
The lower signal marks the time of application of a stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) of the skin of the contralateral foot : this stimulation caused immediate relaxation of the contracting hamstring muscle , but the relaxation did not proceed beyond a certain grade .
Time is marked above in fifths of seconds .
only the active reflex contraction , but the degree of reflex tonus of the muscle on which the active reflex contraction was superadded ( fig. 3 , and the right hand example in fig. 6 ) .
It relaxes the muscle even down , as was said in a previous Note , to its post-mortem length .
It is interesting that this inhibition of reciprocal innervation is seen in many occasions to steady a muscle which under experimental interference with the muscles and nerves of the part is exhibiting tremor and twitchings .
This effect is seen in fig. 7 , where the semitendinosus muscle during the course of an experiment on the nerves of the hind limb of a dog , the spinal cord of Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. i7j ; i Fig. 6.\#151 ; Myograph records of reflex contractions of the extensor of the knee in " decerebrate " cat .
The exciting stimulus was , in the observation reproduced on the left of the figure , a brief compression\#151 ; lasting less than a second\#151 ; of a digit of the contralateral foot .
After this stimulus had been , given and discontinued , and while the after-discharge of the reflex was still in progress , the proximal end of a branch of the severed hamstring nerve was stimulated by faradisation for about a quarter of a second .
The time of this inhibiting stimulus is marked by the signal .
The reflex after-discharge is seen to have been at once inhibited and in this case not to have returned .
The observation reproduced on the right was from the same experiment , but later ; in it the stimulation exciting the reflex contraction was faradisation of the proximal end of a twig of the internal saphenous of the contralateral leg .
This stimulation lasted about two-fifths of a second or less .
Its cessation was quickly succeeded by faradisation of the proximal end of a branch of the severed hamstring nerve as in the previous observation .
The signal marks the time of this inhibiting stimulation .
The after-discharge of the contraction reflex is cut short as before .
Time is marked below in fifths of seconds . .
which had been transected at the tenth thoracic segment , early exhibited the irregular contractions shown .
Considerable depth of chloroform narcosis did not appreciably reduce these contractions , though that they were of spinal origin and probably reflex is indicated by their arrest on stimulating the central end of any nerve of the opposite leg causing the " crossed extension reflex .
' 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
281 | III .
Faradisation of the cutaneous nerves of the limb generally depresses \amp ; the knee-jerk , as was first shown experimentally by Sternberg* That that influence can be exerted by these nerves has recently been laid stress on by yl R du Bois Reymond .
I have noted their similar effect on the tonus .
| Inhibition of the tonus of the extensor muscles has also been shownf to be Fig. 7.\#151 ; Myogram of convulsive twitching of semitendinosus in a " spinal " dog .
The spasms are reduced and temporarily suspended by stimulation ( faradisation ) of the proximal end of a branch of the internal saphenous nerve of the contralateral leg .
The time of application of the inhibiting stimulus is shown on the signal line below .
Time is marked above in seconds .
obtainable from other afferent nerves besides the hamstring nerve , and notably from skin nerves of the homonymous hind limb itself .
If with stimulation of one of these nerves stimulation of the hamstring nerve is combined , the stimulation of the latter is found to reinforce the inhibitory effect of the * " Sehnenreflexe , " Vienna , 1893 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , 1896 .
t Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , 1896 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. U Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. if former , and vice versd .
The skin nerves in question all excite reflex contrae- \#187 ; tion of the hamstring muscles .
I have shown* experimentally that massage jf !
and other mechanical treatment of the exposed hamstring muscles them- \#166 ; # selves discharge centripetal impulses up their afferent nerves , and that these r centripetal impulses inhibit the tone of the antagonistic extensor muscle Yerwornt has demonstrated the same thing for the flexors of the ankle in ?
\#187 ; respect to the extensor digitorum pedis co , the antagonist to the flexor P There are experimental grounds for thinking that the contractive activity j of the hamstring muscles themselves discharges centripetal impulses up their afferent nerves , and that these impulses will reinforce the inhibitory action of the skin-reflex upon the extensor muscles which is antagonistic \#171 ; to the flexors set in action .
The reflex inhibitory action of the skin nerves in question will in that way be supplemented by the afferent nerves of i the muscles that the stimuli to the skin excite reflexly to contraction , and all this will occur together as a spinal reflex .
The reflex arcs arising in the skin , and the reflex arcs arising in the muscles which those cutaneous arcs excite , are , therefore , synergic ; they are what I have termed " allied arcs , " } and their actions mutually reinforce .
IY .
The knee-jerk , though there are objections to considering it a true reflex , is , nevertheless , dependent on the integrity of a reflex spinal arc .
It was shown that this reflex arc in the case of the vastus and crureus the chief muscles involved in the jerk\#151 ; arises in and returns to end in that very muscle itself , S and that all other reflex arcs are inessential to the phenomenon .
Hence , regarding the knee-jerk as an index of the reflex spinal tonus of the muscle , it was argued|| that the reflex arc which maintains the tonus of the extensor muscle arises in that very muscle itself .
But not all authorities allow that the knee-jerk is of itself a true index of the reflex tonus .
How in " decerebrate rigidity " the tonus of the extensor muscle is so great that it is of itself , without appeal to the phenomenon of the knee-jerk , easily observable by mere inspection .
Using the vastus medialis and crureus under decerebrate rigidity , I find that the tonus of those muscles which for the present purpose can , without artificiality , be considered one muscle\#151 ; persists practically unaltered after severance of all the afferent nerves of both hind limbs , excepting only the nerve of that muscle itself , either in one limb or in both .
On then cocainising or severing the afferent fibres from that muscle itself , but leaving intact the efferent * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 vol. 52 , p. 556 , 1893 .
t 'Arch .
f. Physiologie , ' Supplem .
Band , 1900 , p. 117 .
} 'Brit .
Assoc. Reports,5 Cambridge , 1904 , Address to Section I. S Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 vol. 52 , p. 557 , 1893 .
|| Ibid. [ Jfc iy t M 3j| j ie| | B !
Ilkj j t\#174 ; : Pt i itf !
1T|- H.I lij at ill if si ij $ if : fi itfj 'lj ; A i 4 iM 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
283 to it , the tonus is at once and definitively abolished .
To sever the afferent nerve-fibres of the muscle without interfering with the efferent , it is , of course , only necessary to sever the dorsal spinal roots in the vertebral canal\#151 ; these roots in the dog and cat are the 4th , 5th , and 6th lumbar , and in the monkey the 3rd , 4th , and 5th lumbar .
The reflex tonus of this muscle is , therefore , shown in this way to be unquestionably due to the nerve arcs arising in and returning to itself only .
If one of the longer branches of the hamstring nerve be carefully isolated and its central end stimulated , the excitation provokes reflex contraction in the other hamstring muscles .
It never , in my experience , normally provokes contraction in the antagonistic extensor of the knee , although it does in flexors of the hip , which are anatomically closely connected with certain extensors of the knee .
If , conversely , the central end of the nerve of a pure extensor of the knee , e.g. , vastus medialis and crureus , be similarly excited , it does not , in my experience , provoke any primary reflex contraction in the antagonistic hamstring muscles .
It can , in my experience , provoke reflex contraction of the extensor muscle of the knee , but the risk of escape of current to the .other branches of the nerve , when applying electrical stimuli to these branches of the anterior crural , is considerable , so that I have resorted to mechanical stimulation , and the reflex effect produced by that mode of stimulation of these muscular branches of the cruralis is slight .
That mechanical stimulation of the extensor of the knee does induce reflex contraction of the extensor itself is , however , plainly demonstrable under " decerebrate rigidity .
" All the nerves of the limb being severed , except those to the vastiand , the animal is inverted and the knee then gently but fully extended by raising the foot , the thigh being held vertical .
The foot is then released , the anticrus falls , and in doing so is seen to be suddenly checked by exciting a contraction of the extensor of the knee .
This contraction is different from a knee-jerk , for it only slowly passes off .
It seems , therefore , that in the case of these two groups of antagonistic muscles , the reflex contraction elicitable through the afferent nerve of the hamstrings takes place in the hamstring muscles themselves , and does not involve the opposed extensor muscle of the knee joint ; and that the reflex contraction elicitable through the afferent nerve of the extensor muscle takes place in the extensor muscle itself , and does not involve the hamstrings , the opposed flexors of that joint .
V. The intimate nature of the process which reveals itself as inhibition is admittedly obscure in these reflexes as elsewhere .
The present note u 2 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 , is no place in which to review theories of inhibition advanced by Hering , v. Cyon , Gaskell , Lauder Brunton , Meltzer , Verworn , Fano , Macdougall , H. E. Hering , and others , who have written with authority on the subject .
' One point , however , impresses the observer in studying the phenomenon as seen in these reflexes .
The process , although converse in effect to that which " excites " through the motor neurone a " contraction-reflex , " yet resembles that in time-relations of onset and other ways sufficiently to suggest that the induction of the change of state in the " centre , " if active in one case , is active\#151 ; not passive\#151 ; in the other .
The throwing out of ; action seems , at least , as quick as the bringing into action* H. E. Hering and myselff thought , with cortical reactions , the relaxation might commence 1 a little sooner than the contraction of the muscles .
In the spinal reflexes dealt with here the inhibition in many cases appears f not equivalent to merely arresting the play of an excited afferent channel upon the motor centre .
Were that all , the phenomenon should resemble the } effect of suddenly stopping the stimulation of the afferent nerve causing the reflex .
What happens is often not like that ; the arrest is more rapid .
It is usual in spinal reflexes for the reflex contraction to endure for a time after ' cessation of the excitation of the receptive surface or afferent channel .
This continuance of action of the motor neurone , this " after-discharge , " is often marked in spinal reflexes\#151 ; I have seen it continue for 20 seconds in the 1 " flexion reflex .
" It seems natural to attribute it not to an after-action of the i peripheral afferent nerve , but to a continuance of action by mechanisms excited by that on its central side .
These mechanisms or mechanism may be inter-nuncial between afferent channel and motor neurone , or may be the motor neurones themselves , or the synapse between any of these links .
This " afterdischarge , " whatever its seat , can be at once arrested by the inhibition .
It sometimes returns again if the arresting stimulus be brief .
But the fact of its arrest shows that the inhibition acts in these cases differently from a mere discontinuance of the excitation of the afferent channel .
Its effect differs from mere cessation of the exciting stimulus .
The seat of this inhibition seems , therefore , to lie at the central end of the afferent neurone .
Observations on the scratch reflexj indicate that in that reflex the motor neurones of the flexor muscles of the hind limb can be excited to the clonic discharges characteristic of the reflex at a time when the " flexion reflex " is inhibited from employing them .
When the scratch reflex is in progress it is more difficult to excite a " flexion reflex , " and versd .
One reflex seems to ^ * V.supra , S 1 .
b t ' Pflxiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 68 , p. 221 , 1897 .
J I t Sherrington , ' Brit. Assoc. Reports , ' 1904 , loc. cit. k ifiDfe in \#166 ; Ha sp- ill II Ji !
* ill 'll \#166 ; ii \#187 ; i \#166 ; m if !
i ii c#[ 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic .
285 be precluded from acting on a motor neurone at a time when another and different reflex is employing it .
This is one of the data for what I have termed the " principle of the final common path."* The preclusion of the motor neurone from the influence of one reflex does not preclude it from the action of other different reflexes , but still leaves it open to respond to the action of those other reflexes\#151 ; that , in fact , appears to be one of the services of this inhibition to the organism .
This seems to indicate that the motor neurone itself is not , in some cases at least , the seat of the inhibition , for if so , it would be inhibited for all reflexes ; unless the motor neurone is functionally divisible , and one part of it , .
, one set of dendrites , can be inhibited at a time when another are not .
The seat of the inhibition appears , therefore , with some likelihood , to lie neither in the afferent neurone proper nor in the efferent neurone proper , but in an inter-nuncial mechanism\#151 ; synapse or neurone\#151 ; between them .
I say " neurone proper " because a synapse would include the terminal of one neurone and the proximal part of the next .
The " after-discharge " of a " centre , " with its concomitant persistence of contraction of muscles , might .well be disadvantageous to the organism .
That it is rapidly arrested by the inhibitory side of a succeeding reflex , is an adaptation which facilitates the successive interchange of reflexes .
Having in view this active , i.e. , non-passive , character of the initiation of change in central state which the inhibition implies , and also our power to excite opposed muscles synchronously in certain willed movements , I have , in the instances of various afferent nerves and points of skin that regularly evoke inhibition of some particular test-muscle , tried by varying the kind of stimulation , grading the intensity of the stimuli , cooling the nerve , etc. , to change their effect from reflex inhibition to reflex contraction .
Thus , with the knee extensor as test-muscle , I have experimented for this purpose on the skin of the leg below the knee , and on the hamstring nerve and its branches , the nerve from the inner and outer heads of gastrocnemius , the dorsal digital nerves , the anterior tibial nerve above the ankle , the internal saphenous and its branches below the knee , the external saphenous , and the plantar digitals .
In all cases save in one I have been unsuccessful ; the result has always remained inhibition , save in the single instance of the planta.]- From that surface I found that certain kinds of innocuous mechanical stimuli\#151 ; but not other stimuli\#151 ; elicit regularly a reflex contraction of the extensor instead of reflex relaxation .
* Sherrington , 'Brit .
Assoc. Reports , ' 1904 , loc. cit. t Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 66 , 1899 ; and ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 30 p. 39 , 1903 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 ; S This exception apart , the striking invariability of the reflex reactions from the !
' various skin-points and nerve-twigs , together with the correspondences 1 mentioned in Section I , allows an inference that the individual afferent .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Diagram indicating connections and actions of two afferent spinal root-cells , a and a , in regard to their reflex influence on the extensor and flexor muscles of the two knees , a , root-cell afferent from skin below knee ; a ' , root-cell afferent from flexor muscle of knee , i.e.t in hamstring nerve ; e and e ' , efferent neurones to the extensor muscles of the knee , left and right ; 8 and 8 ' , efferent neurones to the flexor muscles ; E and E ' , extensor muscles ; F and F ' , flexor muscles .
The " schalt-zellen " ( v. Monakow ) probable between the afferent and efferent root-cells are for simplicity omitted .
The sign + indicates that at the synapse which it marks the afferent fibre a ( and a ) excites the motor neurone to discharging activity , whereas the sign \#151 ; indicates that at the synapse which it marks the afferent fibre a ( and a ) inhibits the discharging activity of the motor neurones .
The effect of strychnine and of tetanus toxin is to convert the minus sign into sign .
nerve-fibres from the receptive-field of the reflex each divide in the spinal cord into end-branches ( e.g. , collaterals ) , one set of which , when the nerve- 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
28 7 m f| t \#187 ; ( 0 M A fibre is active , always produces excitation in certain efferent neurones , while another set of them when the nerve-fibre is active always normally produces inhibition of certain other efferent neurones , namely , those of the antagonistic muscles .
The single afferent nerve-fibre would therefore be in regard to one set of its central terminal branches specifically and in regard to another set of its central endings specifically inhibitory .
It will in this respect be duplex centrally .
Such an inference agrees with an hypothesis which I have put forward before* regarding the mode of central termination of fibres producing this reciprocal effect .
It suggests analogy between the structural arrangement for reflex reciprocal innervation and that of Astacus claw , if it be supposed that the individual nerve-fibres of the cray-fish claw preparation dichotomise , one division of the nerve-fibre passing to the opening muscle , the other division passing to the closing muscle ; so that one division of the fibre exerts the excitor action , the other the well-known inhibitory , studied by Richet , f Biedermann , ; Piotrowski , S and others .
The constancy of the reflex inhibition remarked above is a normal constancy , but it can be upset by abnormal change of the central condition of the cord .
I find that exhibition of strychnine almost at once converts the inhibition into excitation , as also , more gradually , but just as potently , does tetanus-toxin .
This conversion sets in before and under smaller doses of strychnine or toxin than are required to produce the convulsive seizures characteristic of strychnine poisoning or general tetanus .
This transformation of effect by strychnine holds good not only for the nerves above-mentioned but for skin stimuli , and also for those skin points remote from the hind limb itself , which nevertheless , as mentioned previously , provoke reflex inhibition of the test muscle .
For instance in the case of the knee-extensor as test-muscle , the skin of the fore-paws .
The conversion of inhibitory effect into excitation effect by strychnine is more easily obtained in the case of some nerves than of others .
In the instances of the nerves above-mentioned the conversion is least facile , i.e. , requires larger doses or longer time for development , in the case of the hamstring nerve than in the others .
The inhibitory effect belonging to that nerve is readily lessened by the strychnine , but its actual replacement by excitation-effect , e.g. , contraction of knee-extensor , not only requires larger doses of strychnine but is even then phasic rather than continuous .
When this nerve is tested by stimulation at regular short intervals during one of these * Sherrington , 'Text-book of Physiology , ' edited by Schafer , vol. 2 , 1900 ; cf. also H. E. Hearing , ' Ergebnisse der Pliysiologie , ' I , 1902 .
+ ' Physiol. , des Muscles et des Nerfs , ' p. 274 , 1882 .
+ ' Sitzungsb .
d. Wiener Akad .
, ' vol. 95 , 3 , p. 8 , 1887 .
S ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 14 , 1893 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. i7j phasic periods it can be seen that , starting from the phase in which it still evokes inhibition , little or perhaps not at all obviously less well than normally , its inhibitory effect then becomes progressively less , until it ig replaced by excitation-effect ( contraction ) at first mild , later violent .
This periodic phase will repeat itself many times .
The conversion of .inhibition effect as tested on the knee-extensor might be attributable to the afferent nerves stimulated containing two kinds of afferent fibres admixed , one kind causing reflex contraction of the muscle , the other kind reflex inhibition .
Strychnine might , by augmenting the action of the former or by depressing the action of the latter , change the effect of stimulation of the mixed nerve .
But the latter fibres would be expected to be associated in their action with\#151 ; or , as urged above , to be even the selfsame fibres which evoke\#151 ; contraction of the flexor muscles .
Now there is at the stage of strychninisation at which the change of inhibitory into excitatory effect occurs no trace of any paralysis or even depression of the flexor contractions .
As is known , and was illustrated by tracings in a former paper , * the protagonist and the antagonist muscles are together thrown into synchronous contraction as an effect of strychnine .
This and other considerations appear to me to weigh against explaining the conversion of inhibition-effect into excitation-effect by the hypothesis of reflex by antagonistic sets of fibres , oppositely poisoned centrally , commingled in these afferent nerves .
It is certain , however , that as shown , f the afferent nerves from the planta do contain , besides many fibres which evoke inhibition of the knee-extensor , some which can evoke under mechanical stimulation of the planta reflex contraction of the extensors of the knee .
In the case of the other afferent nerves mentioned above , e.g. , the dorsal digitals , the hamstring nerve , the internal saphenous below the knee , the external saphenous , no evidence has ever been forthcoming that they contain any afferent fibres that can normally provoke any other effect on the knee-extensor than inhibition .
Moreover , when a hamstring muscle is taken as the test-muscle , a similar conversion of inhibition into excitation ( contraction ) by strychnine is seen under the crossed extension reflex .
This reflex , elicitable through the skin or various afferent nerves of the contralateral hind limb , normally excites the knee-extensor to contraction and inhibits the hamstrings , the knee-flexors .
Under strychnine its reflex inhibition of the hamstring muscle is converted into reflex excitation ( contraction ) of that muscle .
In view of my observations as they stand at present , I incline to the inference that the action of the alkaloid is to convert * Sherrington , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , 1892 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 66 , 1899 ; and ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 39 , 1903 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
289 in the spinal cord in these instances the process of inhibition\#151 ; whatever that may essentially be\#151 ; into the process of excitation\#151 ; whatever that may essentially be .
The nexus was pre-existent , but the effect across it was signalised by a different sign\#151 ; minus prior to the strychnine or tetanus toxin , instead of plus , as afterward .
The observed difference between the facility with which strychnine converts ^ the inhibition by the hamstring nerve into excitation , and that with which it converts the inhibition of the other limb-nerves mentioned , does not seem referable to a different action on muscular afferents and cutaneous afferents respectively .
Stimulation of the central end of the purely muscular nerve to the vasti and crureus evokes normally inhibition of the hamstrings of the tt opposite limb , but under strychnine it evokes their contraction .
In that d case , therefore , the strychnine converts with facility the inhibition by a fi muscular afferent into excitation , just as with the skin nerves mentioned .
If strychnine can convert a central inhibition into an excitation , and if the various normal reflex spinal inhibitions show differences , one from another , in the ease with which their mechanisms undergo conversion into excitatory mechanisms by strychnine , the- synchronous excitation of antagonistic muscles in certain willed actions becomes , perhaps , less difficult to understand .
Vaso-i depressor reflexes under chloral ( v. Cyon ) , chloroform ( Bayliss ) , etc. , change into vaso-constrictor under curare , morphia , etc. But the reversal does not appear to occur with equal facility in all afferent nerves alike .
It is stated to be impossible to obtain any vascular reflex but a depressant one from the " depressor " nerve .
This nerve , arising in the heart ( v. Cyon)* and aorta $ ( G- .
Koster and A. Tschermak ) , f may in a sense be considered the afferent nerve of the muscle antagonistic to the ring-musculature of the arteries , namely , the muscle whose tonus it reflexly depresses .
It is in that way comparable with the afferent nerve of the hamstring muscles in relation to the extensors of the knee .
The depressor action of the hamstring nerve on the knee-extensor seems , as just said , in my experience , particularly resistant to conversion from inhibition into excitation by strychnine .
The conversion of spinal inhibition into excitation by strychnine explains the simultaneous contraction of large inharmonious groups of muscles in strychnine convulsions .
It also explains the occurrence , under a given stimulus , of reflex contraction of muscles that previously do not seem , under superficial examination , to be reached by the reaction .
These muscles are really included in the reflex effect normally , but the effect on them then being inhibition , it passes unnoticed , unless special means are adopted for seeing it .
* ' Ludwig 's Arbeiten , ' Leipzig , 1866 , p. 128 .
t ' Pfliigers Archiv , ' vol. 93 , p. 24 , 1902 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17( Thus , in the ordinary " flexion reflex , " initiated , say , from the right foot , the flexion of the homonymous knee is easily seen to be due to contraction of its flexor muscles , also the concomitant extension of the crossed knee is easily seen to be due to contraction of its extensor muscles .
But it requires special preparations to detect that with the contraction of the right knee-flexors there goes reflex inhibition of the right extensor , and that with the contraction of the left knee-extensor there goes reflex inhibition of the left knee-flexors .
This being so , when under strychnine the reflex is suddenly changed in character , both flexors and extensors being in both legs thrown into contraction together , it appears to an observer , unaware of the previous inhibitions , that , under the strychnine , the reflex action reached muscles which it did not reach before , e.g. , right knee-extensor and left knee-flexor .
Hence rises the hypothesis that the alkaloid breaks down a supposed spinal " resistance , " previously intervening between the afferent nerves and various motor spinal cells ordinarily inaccessible to them .
Strychnine does lower the threshold stimulus for spinal reflexes at one stage of its action ; but the central fact of strychnine effect appears to me that it destroys spinal taxis for the skeletal musculature by upsetting the fundamental co-ordination of reciprocal innervation .
It upsets reciprocal innervation because it transforms inhibition into excitation .
The vast role of inhibition in cerebral processes , as evidenced by mental reactions , and the slightness of mental symptoms in acute strychnine poisoning , indicates a difference between inhibition as it occurs in the bulbospinal arcs and in the arcs of purely sensual and perceptual level , a difference presumably of chemical nature .
Addendum , May 15 , 1905 .
At the date of the foregoing I had had opportunity for but a few experiments with tetanus-toxin , and those with one preparation only of the toxin .
The results then obtained showed , as mentioned , that the toxin , as does strychnine , converts inhibition effect into excitation effect .
I have since been able to make further observations , and with two other preparations of the toxin besides my own .
For a solid preparation , I have to thank the kindness of Professor Roux , Director of the Institut Pasteur ; for a fluid , Dr. Stenhouse Williams .
The results yielded by each of these have been confirmatory of the mentions made in the Note .
The action of the toxin in respect to inhibition resembles that of strychnine closely in several ways .
Thus , in the stages of the disease in which the tetanus is still local and manifested in one limb , namely , that { e.g. , the hind limb ) which received the toxin injection , the toxin early converts into* excitation the 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
291 reflex inhibition of the extensor muscles , normally obtainable from the internal saphenous nerve , but that obtainable from the peroneal and popliteal nerves , and from the hamstring nerve , remains unreversed , though the strength of the inhibitory effect of these nerves may be very distinctly less than normal .
Later , as the condition progresses , the inhibitory effect normally belonging to the peroneal and popliteal nerves becomes actually reversed into excitation .
Finally , even that of the hamstring nerve itself is reversed .
This is the same sequence of effect pursued by progressive increase of dosage of strychnine .
One difference that seems apparent between the action of the tetanus-toxin and the strychnine in these observations is that in the relatively slow progress of the tetanus it is easy to note a stage in which the conversion of the inhibition effect into excitation effect has occurred , while there is yet none of that obvious lowering of the threshold of reflex reaction which early marks the course of strychnine poisoning , and has been drawn attention to by many observers .
In experiments on the hind limb , I have usually introduced the toxin into the sciatic trunk well below the hamstring branch , more rarely into the hamstring nerve as well , or alone .
I have found the inhibitory effect of the internal saphenous nerve ( stimulated in its course below the knee ) converted to excitation in 48 hours from the time of inoculation .
In the gradual progress of the condition , I have several times found the hamstring nerve produce slight inhibition of the extensor if the initial posture taken at the knee be extension , and yet produce distinct excitation of the extensor if the initial posture taken at the knee be flexion .
This is in accord with evidence insisted on in the sixth Note.* It is noteworthy that the nerve , namely , the internal saphenous , which , in the lower limb , thus early shows the typical effect , i.e. , conversion of inhibition to excitation , lies remote from and without peripheral connection with the nerve trunk which has been the seat of inoculation .
In the same way , before the condition has spread so as to cause obvious symptoms in the opposite as well as in the inoculated limb , the reflex effect of stimulation of the central end of the hamstring nerve of the inoculated limb can be seen to be at the opposite knee slight inhibition of the extensors\#151 ; that is , in my experience , the normal effect , obtains in the unpoisoned state .
But the reflex crossed effect from the corresponding nerve of the non-inoculated limb can be seen to be not inhibition , as it normally should be , but excitation .
In this case , again , inhibition effect has been changed to excitation effect , and this time in a crossed reflex , and the change is * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , 1900 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 ; observed not on stimulating the nerve trunk actually inoculated , but on stimulating the corresponding nerve of the opposite side .
This result is in accord with expectation in view of the signs of the condition present .
Conversion of inhibition into excitation by tetanus-toxin is demonstrable , as is that by strychnine , with the reflexes of the fore limb as well as with those of the hind limb , and in the " decerebrate " animal as well as in the merely " spinal .
" The fact that the very motor neurones , which are so regularly inhibited in the type-reflexes that have here been under examination , do under certain cortical stimulations exhibit excitation instead of inhibition , was a consideration which induced my search for the possibility in them of converting f ' inhibition into excitation .
This conversion of reflex inhibitory effect into excitatory having been obtained , it has been natural to enquire what 1 difference , if any , is thus made to the reactions of the cortex cerebri .
The b material for doing so required a little time in preparation , but I am now \#165 ; \#166 ; able to report that the agents found to convert the spinal reactions do exert I\#174 ; marked influence on those of the cerebral cortex .
They transform the I\#174 ; physiological topography of the motor cortex .
It is , in my experience , quite exceptional to obtain primary extension of the opposite knee as a motor reaction from the cerebral cortex of the cat\#151 ; or even , indeed , as a secondary movement .
In exploring that cortex with unipolar faradisation I have often failed to elicit the movement at all throughout series of observations .
Flexion , on the other hand , is regularly obtainable .
This means , in light of observations by H. Hering and myself , not that this cortex is in touch with the flexors alone , and not with the k extensors , but that its usual effect on the latter is inhibition .* the extensors is are not unrepresented , but their normal representation is in the form of |-inhibition , not excitation , and thus , unless specially sought , escapes observa- r tion .
After exhibition of strychnine extension of knee becomes elicitable regularly from the cortex , and from the very points of it that yielded flexion previously .
This conversion is , in my experience , not so facile as the conversion of the spinal reflex .
The dose of strychnine has to be larger , or to operate longer .
With doses additively given there is , early in the experiment , a period when reflex spinal inhibition of the extensors has been converted into excitation , but the cortex of the brain still yields knee-flexion , not extension .
The cortical reversal has required in my hands doses that evoke convulsive seizures from time to time , and I have seen immediately after a severe convulsion the cortex either unable to evoke any movement of the knee or produce knee-flexion , though a short while before it gave knee-extension .
1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
293 Tetanus toxin likewise converts the cortical flexion into extension .
The effect is in its case the more marked because , if the cortical examination be conducted in an early stage of the progressive malady ensuing on inoculation by a moderate dose , or conducted where the dose has been quite small , the tetanus is " local , " and confined to the limb the site of inoculation , and then , if the tetanus be " local " in one hind limb , e.g. , the left , the appropriate area of the right hemisphere yields knee-extension , whereas the corresponding of the left hemisphere yields knee-flexion .
But these effects are better studied in the monkey .
There , in my experience , to obtain primary extension of the crossed knee from the cortex is , as in the cat , extremely unusual .
A number of experiments can be made without obtaining it at all .
Even as a secondary movement it is extremely poorly represented in the cortex .
For twenty instances of flexion at knee , it is , in my experience , often difficult to find one of extension at that joint .
But , after tetanus toxin or strychnine , the whole " leg-area " of the cortex from all points of its surface will yield nothing but leg-extension , in which extension of knee is prominent , as an evident part of a primary combined movement .
This is especially striking when the tetanus is still merely " local , " and confined to one hind limb , e.g. , left .
The " leg-area " of the right cortex then yields knee-extension everywhere ; the " leg-area " of the left cortex yields the normal flexion results .
The " leg-area " of the right cortex provokes moreover from many of its points extension of right knee and ankle , as well as of left , though less strongly .
The " leg-area " of left hemisphere does this little , if at all .
Under moderate faradisation , the " leg-area " in the monkey , in my experience , moves the homonymous hind limb , in addition to the crossed , very slightly , and rarely normally , much less so than in the cat , though in both the movement is the same , namely , " extension .
" So localised may be the toxic influence in its early stage that reversal of its cortical effect at knee may obtain while in the same hemisphere that on hip and ankle still remain flexion as usual .
Similarly with the " arm-area .
" In the cat , it is in my experience quite infrequent to obtain primary extension of the crossed elbow from the cortex .
Flexion is readily and regularly obtained .
Strychnine changes this : the very surface that yielded flexion then provokes extension , and strongly .
But the dose of strychnine has to be larger than for conversion of the spinal reflex , and the conversion shows the phases before mentioned in regard to the knee-inhibition and its conversion in the case of the hamstring nerve .
In the monkey , in my experience , the effect of strychnine and of tetanus toxin when pushed to the general convulsive stage , is often contrary to the effect in that stage in so many other animals .
I have , namely .
, seen them produce , not Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 extension at elbow but flexion at elbow .
That is , however , not invariable .
In one case , in a monkey , in which the tetanus had become general in the sense that only one limb was unaffected , the affected arm was strongly extended and rio-id at elbow with some retraction at shoulder .
But in all my instances of " local " tetanus of the arm by introduction of the toxin into the trunk of the median the limb has been extended rigidly at elbow and retracted at shoulder .
In these faradic examination of the cortex has shown that the small field of the " arm-area , " to which extension at elbow is restricted , was enlarged so as to include the whole " arm-area .
Extension at elbow sometimes alone , more often with retraction at shoulder , or with extension at wrist or fingers , sometimes as a leading movement , sometimes rapidly ensuent on retraction at shoulder or extension in the hand , according as higher or lower points in the area were stimulated , was prominently exhibited at all points of the entire surface of the " arm-area .
" That area , with this as its salient reaction , seemed particularly excitable , for its extreme limits appeared traceable further than usual , and encroaching on or overlapping more than is usual , under the feeble or moderate stimulation employed , the " leg-area " above and the " face-area " below , and to run exceptionally far forward above the pre-central sulcus , though remaining undemonstrable in the free surface of the ascending parietal convolution .
From no point in all this extensive " arm-area " was , despite repeated trials , any flexion at elbow or at shoulder or hand obtained .
Various intensities of faradisation were employed in attempt to evoke it , and points known to normally yield it very regularly were specially tried : but extension , not flexion , always resulted .
This condition of the " arm-area " I found in experimental tetanus sometimes exist in one hemisphere or even in both hemispheres , while the " leg-area " of each hemisphere yet yielded flexions at knee and hip and ankle , and its other normal forms of reaction .
In the monkey , in my experience , tetanus produced by introduction of the toxin into the arm median trunk ) affects after the inoculated limb , the fellow fore limb first , and the jaw before the hind limbs , although the knee-jerk on the homonymous side to the inoculation may be brisk .
Under decerebrate rigidity , e.g. , in the cat , the closing muscles of the jaw are kept in tonic action , holding the mouth somewhat firmly shut * By stimulation of any point of a large " skin-area " appropriate for the reflex , reflex opening of the mouth , including depression of the lower jaw is easily and regularly elicited .
Faradisation of an afferent twig of the trigeminus produces * Sherrington , 'Phil .
Trans. , B. , vol. 190 , 1898 .
I I p m ttSl| titL % Ufi % ii| .
it a Stafff fio ma Ms m iit tri 'TUI 'If d $ \amp ; a #1 t* ; 1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic , 295 the same effect ; or as was shown by Woodworth and myself , * stimulation of even distant afferent nerves , e.g. , plantar or saphenous .
Here the action of the powerful closing muscles is reflexly inhibited while the weaker opening muscles are reflexly excited\#151 ; it is , in fact , a case of Astacus claw , except that the inhibition is central , not peripheral .
This reflex " opening " is in the decerebrate animal converted into reflex closure by tetanus toxin and by strychnine , the inhibition of the predominantly powerful closing muscles being converted into excitation of them .
Similarly , when the " face-area " of the monkey 's cortex is tested by faradisation after exhibition of strychnine , the points of surface that , prior to the drug , yielded regularly the free opening of the jaw , yield strong closure of the jaw instead .
How closure of the jaw , is in my experience , quite an infrequent movement to obtain from the cortex of the cat or monkey , t one frequently fails to elicit it by moderate stimulation from any point whatsoever .
When it does present itself , it tends to be unreliable even at the point at which it may have been evoked .
On the other hand , opening of the jaw is always readily and regularly elicitable from a large field of the " face-area .
" And adjoining and overlapping this large area whence steady opening of the jaw is obtained , is an area whence , as Terrier^ first pointed out , " rhythmic alternating opening and closing of the jaws , " as in feeding , can be evoked .
Under tetanus toxin or strychnine the whole of this combined area not only ceases to yield opening of the jaws , either maintained or rhythmic , but yields closing of them instead\#151 ; often with visible retraction of the tongue .
For this conversion larger doses of strychnine have , in my hands , been required than for conversion of knee-flexion into extension .
With tetanus toxin the conversion appears the more striking when examined early in the progress of the intoxication , because it may be found at a stage precedent altogether to the occurrence of any general convulsions , and also because it can then sometimes be found to be unilateral , that is , to be present in the " face-area " of one hemisphereS without , or almost without , any affection of the " face-area " of the other hemisphere .
The reactions of the normal field thus remain for comparison in the same individual with the reactions of the abnormal field .
The tetanus toxin in my experiments in the monkey has shown marked predilection for the closure mechanism of the jaw .
After inoculation in the * ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 28 , 1904 .
t The species of monkeys used have been M. , callothrix , and cynomolgus .
No reference is here meant to the anthropoid apes .
t ' Functions of the Brain , ' 1876 .
S The hemisphere , the reactions of the " face-area " of which are earlier altected , is in the case of inoculation in a limb the hemisphere contralateral to the limb inoculated .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Apr. 17 ) hind leg , even before the " local " tetanus has obviously invaded the fellow limb of the opposite side , a slightly clenched jaw and an immobile pursing 0{ the lips has several times given warning that general tetanus had really 8et in , long before any trace of general convulsive seizures or any involvement of P the arms was detected .
Tetanus toxin has also certainly intensified the # reactions of the cortical areas that give retraction of the neck and retraction P of the abdominal wall .
The progress of the change wrought by these agents in converting these p reactions of the cortex from their usual form to the diametrically opposite it seems to involve the same kind of steps as that noted above in their con- y version of the inhibitory hamstring nerve effect on the knee extensor .
There k stages can be found in which the inhibitory effect is less than normal , yet is L not replaced by excitatory .
So with the cortical opening of jaw , in early tetanus a grade is discoverable when faradisation of the cortex produces a slight opening of the jaw\#151 ; a mere " loosening " of the jaws so to say\#151 ; distinctly less than normal and hardly effectively opening the mouth .
Also with the " leg-area " of the cortex , at an early stage of the tetanus it would seem that an undue but far from exclusive preponderance of plantar extension at ankle over dorsal flexion at that joint exists , while the symptomatic knee-extension is as yet not excitable though knee-flexion is almost in abeyance .
Neither under tetanus toxin or strychnine have I at present observed conversion of the abducens inhibition* into excitation .
In this brief account it might appear that the effects of tetanus toxin and of strychnine on the cortical reactions seem identical .
In reality a number of differences between them appear to exist .
These and other points I must reserve for a more detailed communication .
But the foregoing observations appear to give an insight into at least a part of the essential nature of the condition brought about by tetanus and by strychnine poisoning .
These disorders work havoc with the co-ordinating mechanisms of the central nervous system , because in regard to certain great groups of musculature they change the reciprocal inhibitions , normally assured by the central nervous mechanisms , into excitations .
The sufferer is subjected to a disorder of co-ordination which , though not necessarily of itself accompanied by physical pain , must inflict on the mind , which still remains clear , a torture inexpressibly distressing .
Each attempt to execute certain muscular acts of vital importance , such as the taking of food , is defeated because from the attempt results an act exactly the opposite to that intended .
The endeavour to open the jaw to take food or drink induces closure of the jaw , because the normal inhibition of the stronger set of muscles\#151 ; the closing muscles\#151 ; is by the agent converted into * Sherrington , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 52 , 1893 .
1905 .
] On Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
297 excitation of them .
Moreover , the various reflex arcs that cause inhibition of these muscles not only cause excitation of them instead , but are , periodically or more or less constantly , in a state of hyper-excitement , and yet attempt on the part of the sufferer to restrain , to inhibit , their reflex reaction , instead of relaxing them only heightens their excitation further , and thus exacerbates a rigidity or a convulsion already in progress .
I have not yet examined in this respect the action of the virus of rabies .
It seems to me not improbable that that virus also upsets reciprocal innervation , though its field of operation , at least in man , probably lies not in the same group of mechanisms as are affected by strychnine and tetanus toxin but in an allied one , namely , the co-ordinations inter-regulating deglutition and respiration .
vOL .
lxxvi.\#151 ; b. x

