On Cheirostrobus , a new Type of Fossil Cone .
417 ner as difficult as in the presence of exclusively spinal mechanisms .
The reflex inhibitions the subject of this Note show , however , that the accessibility is not really greatly or even at all altered ; the nexus is maintained , but the conduction across it is signalised by a different sign , minus instead of plus .
The former , to find expression , must predicate an already existent quantity of contraction\#151 ; , to take effect upon .
It seems likely enough that even when the transection is infrabulbar and merely spinal mechanisms remain in force , the same nexus obtains , but that then that background of tonic contraction is lacking , and that lacking the play of inhibitions remains invisible , never coming within the field of any ordinary method of observation .
Under the conditions adopted in my experiments , various other reflex actions , that seem probably examples of this same kind of coordination , can be studied , for instance , a sudden depression and curving downward of the stiffly elevated and tonically up-curved tail which can be elicited by a touch upon the perineum .
But with these and also with other details regarding the reflexes at elbow and knee I hope to deal more fully in a paper to which the experiments recorded here are contributory .
" On Clieirostrobus , a new Type of Fossil Cone from the Calci-ferous Sandstone .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received December 29 , 1896\#151 ; Bead January 21 , 1897 .
The Peduncle .
The first indication of the existence of the remarkable type of fructification about to be described , was afforded by the study of a specimen in the Williamson collection , from the well-known fossili-ferous deposit at Pettycur , near Burntisland , belonging to the Calci-ferous Sandstone Series at the base of the Carboniferous formation .
This specimen is a fragment of stem , of which seven sections are preserved in the collection.* Its discoverer thought it might possibly belong to the Lepidostrobus found in the same bed .
" If so , " he adds , " it has been part of the axis of a somewhat larger strobilus than those described .
" f A detailed examination of the structure of this specimen convinced me that it is essentially different from any Lepidodendroid axis , and is , certainly , a new type of stem .
J * The cabinet-numbers are 539\#151 ; 545 .
+ Williamson , " Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
" Part III .
* Phil. Trans./ L872 , p. 297 .
t A short account of this specimen was given by me before the Botanical Section of the British Association at the Liverpool meeting , 1896 .
418 Dr. D. H. Scott .
On Cheirostrobus , a Type As it was the examination of this fragment of stem which first put me on to the track of the new cone , it may be well shortly to describe its chief characteristics , reserving all details for a future paper .
The specimen , which is about 7 mm. : in diameter , bears the bases only of somewhat crowded leaves , the arrangement of which , though not quite clear , was most probably verticillate , with from nine to twelve leaves in a whorl , those of successive whorls being superposed .
Each leaf-base consists of a superior and an inferior lobe , and each lobe is palmately subdivided into two or three segments .
The leaf-traces , which are single bundles where they leave the central cylinder , subdivide in both planes on their way through the cortex , to supply the lobes and segments of the leaf .
The central cylinder is polyarch , the strand of wood having from nine to twelve prominent angles , with phloem occupying the furrows between them .
With the exception of the spiral protoxylem-elements at the angles , the tracheae have multiseriate bordered pits , thus differing conspicuously from the scalariform tracheae of the Lepidodendreae .
The interior of the steal is occupied by tracheae intermingled with conjunctive parenchyma .
There is a well-marked formation of secondary tissues by means of a normal cambium.* The Stro Mr. R. Kidston , E.Gr .
S. , kindly informed me that he had in his possession sections of a fossil cone from Burntisland having certain points in common with the Williamson specimen .
On inspecting these sections with Mr. Kidston I was soon convinced that this undescribed cone really belonged to the same plant as the fragment of stem in the Williamson collection , and that the latter might well be the peduncle of the former .
At the same time , I satisfied myself , and Mr. Kidston agreed with me , that the whole organisation of his cone is fundamentally different from that of any Lepidostrobus , the decisive point being that the new cone has compound branched sporo* The general structure of this axis , including the course of the bundles and the subdivision of the bracts , is correctly described by Williamson , cit. , p. 297 .
As regards the latter point , he says " peripherally the bark breaks up into main or primary bracts , which again subdivide , as in the transverse section , into secondary ones , demonstrating that each primary bract does not merely dichotomize , but subdivides , both horizontally and vertically , into a cluster of bracts\#151 ; a condition corresponding with what T have already observed in the smaller strobili described .
" These smaller strobili are those of the Burntisland , to which , by a strange coincidence , Williamson , loc. cit. , p. 295 , erroneously attributed the same character , as regards subdivision of the bracts , which actually exists in the new cone .
The only explanation appears to be , that Williamson interpreted the structure of the Lepidostrobus in the light of that of the peduncle , which , as we shall see , really belonged to a totally different fructification .
of Fossil Cone from the Calciferous Sandstone .
419 phylls , each of which bears a number of sporangia .
It became evident that this cone must be placed in a new genus , and the conclusion arrived at from the study of the peduncle was thus confirmed .
Mr. Kidston most generously handed over his sections to me for examination and description , and also obtained for me from the owner the remains of the original block , from which I have had a number of additional sections prepared .
Only a single specimen of the cone is at present known .
Before cutting sections , the piece , which includes the base but not the apex of the strobilus , was about 2 inches long .
It was found at Pettycur , near Burntisland , in 1883 , by Mr. James Bennie of Edinburgh .
The specimen is calcified , and its preservation is remarkably perfect , so that the whole structure is well shown , though the complexity of its organisation renders the interpretation in some respects difficult .
The cone in its present somewhat flattened condition measures about 5 cm .
by 2'3 cm .
in diameter .
The diameter in its natural state would have been at least 3'5 cm .
That of the axis is about 7 mm. , exactly the same as that of Williamson 's peduncle .
Thus the extreme length of the sporophylls , which have on the whole an approximately horizontal course , is about l-4 cm .
The sporophylls are arranged in somewhat crowded verticils , fourteen of which were counted in a length of an inch , 2'5 cm .
There are twelve leaves in each whorl , and the members of successive whorls are accurately superposed , a fact which is shown with the greatest clearness in tangential sections of the cone .
This is evidently a point of great significance in considering the affinities of the fossil .
The sporophylls themselves have a remarkably complex form .
Each sporophyll at its insertion on the axis , consists of a short basal portion or phyllopodium ; the bases of the sporophylls belonging to the same verticil are coherent .
The sporophyll branches immediately above its base , dividing into a superior and an inferior lobe , which lie directly one above the other in the same I'adial plane .
Almost at the same point , each of the lobes subdivides in a palmate manner into three segments , which assume a horizontal course , whereas the common phyllopodium lias an upward inclination .
It is probable that sometimes , especially at the base of the cone , there may be two instead of three segments to each lobe .
As a rule , however , each sporophyll consists of six segments , of which three belong to the superior ( ventral or posterior ) and three to the inferior ( dorsal or anterior ) lobe .
The segments are of two kinds\#151 ; sterile and fertile .
Both alike consist of a long , straight , slender pedicel , running out horizontally , and terminating at the distal end in a thick laminar expansion .
The sterile segments are the longer , and in each the lamina bears an 420 Dr. D. H. Scott .
On Oheirostrobus , a new Type upturned foliaceous scale as well as a shorter and stouter downward prolongation .
Each of the fertile segments ends in a fleshy laminar enlargement not unlike the peltate scale of an or a These fertile laminae , which are protected on the exterior by the overlapping ends of the sterile segments , bear the sporangia .
Pour , perhaps in some cases five , sporangia are attached , by their ends remote from the axis , to the inner surface of the peltate fertile lamina .
Each sporangium is connected with the lamina by a somewhat narrow neck of tissue into which a vascular bundle enters .
The sporangia are of great length , and extend back along the pedicels until they nearly or quite reach the axis .
The sterile and fertile segments alternate regularly , one above the other , in the same vertical series .
So much is evident , but the question which segments are fertile and which sterile , has presented great difficulties , owing to the fact that the same segment can scarcely ever be traced continuously throughout the whole of its long course , and that the pedicels of sterile and fertile segments present no constant distinctive characters .
For reasons , however , which will be fully given in a subsequent paper , I think it highly probable that in each sporophyll the segments of the lower lobe are sterile , and those of the upper lobe fertile , constituting the sporangiophores .
The sporangia and pedicels are all packed closely together so as to form a continuous mass .
The external surface of the cone was completely protected by its double investiture of fertile and sterile laminae .
The spores are well preserved in various parts of the cone , and , so far as this specimen shows , are all of one kind , their average diameter being 0 065 mm. At the base of the cone , where macrospores , if they existed , might naturally be looked for , the spores are of the same size as elsewhere .
So far , then , there is no evidence of hetero-spory .
The spores are considerably larger than the microspores of the Lepidostrobi .
Those of the Burntisland for example , are barely 0'02 mm. in diameter .
The spores of our plant approach in size those of Sphenophyllum or the microspores of Calamostachys Casheana .
The sporangial wall , as preserved , is only one cell in thickness ; it bears no resemblance to the palisade-like layer which forms the wall of the sporangium in Lepidostrobus , but has the same structure as that of a Calamostachys.* The sporangial wall of Sphenophyllum JDawsoni is similar .
The anatomy of the axis of the cone agrees closely with that of * See Weiss , " Steinkohlen-Calamarien , " vol. 2 , 1884 , Plate XXIV , figs. 3 , 4 , and 5 ; Williamson and Scott , " Further Observations on the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " Part I , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , PI .
81 , fig. 31 .
of Fossil Cone from the Caleiferous Sandstone .
421 the peduncle above described , except for the absence of any secondary tissues .
The wood has twelve prominent angles , at which the spiral trachere are situated , so its development was , no doubt , centripetal .
The inner trachea ?
have pitted walls , and are intermixed with scattered parenchymatous cells , imperfectly preserved .
The phloem has entirely perished .
The most interesting anatomical feature is the course of the leaf-trace bundles , which can be followed with the greatest exactness on comparing sections in the three directions .
A single vascular bundle starts from each angle of the steal for each sporophyll , and passes obliquely upwards .
When less than half way through the cortex , the trace divides into three bundles , one median and two lateral .
The lateral strands are not always both given off exactly at the same point .
A little further out , the median bundle divides into two , which in this case lie in the same radial plane , so that one is anterior , and the other posterior .
The median posterior bundle is the larger , and before leaving the cortex this , in its turn , divides into three .
There are now six branches of the original leaf-trace , three anterior , and three posterior , which respectively supply the lower and upper lobes of the sporophyll .
The three segments of the lower lobe are supplied by the twro lateral bundles first given off , and by the anterior median bundle , while the upper segments receive the posterior median bundle and its two lateral branches .
In the base of the sporophyll , all six bundles can be clearly seen , in tangential sections of the cone , three above and three below .
As the segments become free , one bundle passes into each , and runs right through the pedicel to the lamina .
In the fertile lamina the bundle subdivides , a branch diverging to the point of insertion of each sporangium .
One of the longitudinal sections passes through the base of the cone , so as to show part of the peduncle in connection with it .
In this peduncle secondary wood is present , just as in the separate specimen belonging to the Williamson collection .
Higher up in the axis of the cone , where the sporophylls begin to appear , the secondary wood dies out .
This evidence materially confirms the conclusion that the Williamson peduncle really belongs to our strobilus .
Diagnosis .
It is evidently necessary to establish a new genus for the reception of this fossi l ; the generic name which I propose is Cheirostrobus , intended to suggest the palmate division of the sporophyll-lobes ixeiPi hand ) .
The species maybe appropriately named Pettycurensis , from the locality where the important deposit occurs , which has yielded this strobilus and so many other valuable specimens of 422 Dr. D. H. Scott .
On Cheirostrobus , a Type palaeozoic vegetation .
The diagnosis may provisionally run as follows :\#151 ; Gheirostrobus , gen .
nov .
Cone consisting of a cylindrical axis , bearing numerous compound sporophylls , arranged in crowded many-membered verticils .
Sporophylls of successive verticils superposed .
Each sporophyll divided , nearly to its base , into an inferior and a superior lobe ; lobes palmately subdivided into long segments , of which some ( probably the inferior ) are sterile , and others ( probably the superior ) fertile , each segment consisting of an elongated stalk beainng a terminal lamina .
Laminae of sterile segments foliaceous ; those of fertile segments ( or sporangiophores ) peltate. .
Sporangia large , attached by their ends remote from the axis , to the peltate laminae of the sporangiophores .
Sporangia on each sporangiophore , usually four .
Spores very numerous in each sporangium .
Wood of axis polyarch .
C. Fettycurensis , sp. nov .
Cone , 3\#151 ; 4 cm .
in diameter , seated on a distinct peduncle .
Sporophylls , twelve in each verticil .
Each sporopbyll usually sexpartite , three segments belonging to the inferior , and three to the superior , lobe .
Sporangia densely crowded .
Spores about 0 065 mm. in diameter .
Horizon : Calciferous Sandstone Series .
Locality : Pettycur , near Burntisland , Scotland .
Found by Mr. James Bennie , of Edinburgh .
Both generic and specific characters are manifestly subject to alteration , if other similar fossils should be discovered .
In the mean time the above diagnoses are given , in order to facilitate identification .
Affinities .
Any full discussion of affinities must be reserved for the detailed memoir , which I hope to lay before the Royal Society in a short time .
At present only a few suggestions will be offered The idea of a near relationship to Lepidostrobus\#151 ; so specious at first sight\#151 ; is negatived by accurate investigation .
There may have been a certain resemblance in external habit , as there is in the naked-eye appearance of the sections , but this means nothing more than that the specimen is a large cone , with crowded sporophylls and radially elongated sporangia .
The only real resemblance to Lepidostrobus is in the polyarch strand of primary wood , but even here the details , as , for example , the structure of the tracheae , do not of Fossil Cone from the Calciferous Sandstone .
423 agree .
In other respects the differences from any Lepidodendroid fructification are as great as they can be .
I do not doubt that the genus with which Cheirostrobus has most in common is Sphenophyllum .
The chief points of agreement are as follows .
1 .
The superposed foliar whorls .
This certainly agrees with the vegetative parts of Sphenophyllum , and , according to Count Solms-Laubach , the superposition holds good for the bracts of the strobili also.* 2 .
The deeply divided palmatifid sporophylls agreeing with the leaves of various species of SphenophylluS .
tenerrimum .
3 .
The division of the sporophyll into a superior or ventral , and an inferior or dorsal , lobe , agreeing with the arrangement in Bphenophyllum Dawsoni , or S. cuneifolium , according to M. Zeiller 's interpretation.- !
4 .
The differentiation of the sporophyll into sterile segments ( bracts ) and fertile segments ( sporangiophores ) .
The comparison with Sphenophyllum is much strengthened if , as I believe to be the case , the segments of the inferior lobe in Cheirostrobus are sterile , and those of the superior lobe fertile .
5 .
The repeated subdivision of the leaf-trace vascular bundles , in passing through the cortex of the axis , J as in Sphenophyllum Stephanense .
6 .
The attachment of the sporangia to a laminar expansion at the .distal end of the sporangiophore .
As regards this point , comparison should be made with the Bowmanites of Count Solms-Lau-bach ( loc. cit. ) .
7 .
The structure of the sporangial wall .
I think that the sum of these characters , to which others might be added , justifies the suggestion that Cheirostrobus may be provisionally placed in the same phylum , or main division , of Pteridophyta , with Sphenophyllum , though indications of possible affinities in other directions are not wanting , and will be discussed on another occa-\#166 ; sion .
Cheii ostrobus , even more than Sphenophyllum itself , appears to combine Calamarian with Lycopodiaceous characters , and might reasonably be regarded as a highly specialised representative of an ancient group of plants which lay at the common base of these two .series .
It appeal 's likely that in Cheirostrobus one of those additional forms * Bowmanites Bomeri , cine never Sphenophylleen Fructification/ 1895 , p. 242 .
t ^r Etude sir la constitution de l'appareil fructificative des Sphenophyllum .
" * Mem. de la Soc. Geol .
de France , Paleontologie/ Mem. 11 , 1893 , p. 37 .
+ Cf .
Renault , 'Cours de Botanique fossile/ vol. 2 , PI .
14 , fig. 2 ; PI .
15 , fi\lt ; r. 3 vol. 4 , p. 15 .
VOL. LX .
n " Proceedings and List of Papers .
of Palaeozoic Cryptogams , allowing of comparison with has actually been brought to light , the discovery of which Dr. Williamson and I ventured to anticipate at the close of our first joint memoir.* January 28 , 1897 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , followed by Sir JOHN EYANS , K.C.B. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
Mr. John Eliot and Dr. Edward Charles Stirling were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Treasurer offered the congratulations of the Society to the-President on his elevation to the peerage .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Capacity and Residual Charge of Dielectrics as affected by Temperature and Time .
" By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. , and E. Wilson .
II .
" On the Electrical Resistivity of Electrolytic Bismuth at Low Temperatures and in Magnetic Fields .
" By James Dewar , .
M.A. , LL. D. , E.R.S. , Eullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution ; and J. A. Fleming , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.r Professor of Electrical Engineering in University College , .
London .
III .
" On the Selective Conductivity exhibited by certain Polarising Substances .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Pro* fessor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. * Williamson and Scott , " Further Observations on.the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " Part I , ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1894 , p. 946 .

