414 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ June 18 be distinguished from the intermixture of the liquefied solid with the water .
Both these acts must be attended by heat-absorption .
The dilution of watery solutions has been shown , especially by the researches of Thomsen , to be attended very generally by absorption of heat , notwithstanding that in most cases it is accompanied by contraction of volume , a process which must have an opposite effect .
In the solution of many anhydrous and even hydrated salts , we must believe , from the very energetic thermal change observed , that the salt enters into chemical union with a portion of the liquid .
The extent to which this combination occurs will be greatly influenced by the temperature at which the experiment is made , and at sufficiently elevated temperatures it must be believed to be entirely annulled whilst on the other hand , as the temperature is raised , chemical action , resulting in double decomposition between the water and constituents of the salt , becomes apparent .
This action , which is manifested in the case of the salts of the heavy metals by the production of insoluble oxides , hydroxides , or basic salts , cannot be supposed to be altogether without effect in the case of the salts of the alkali metals such as I have been examining , and I incline strongly to the belief that a part of the difference which I have pointed out between the observed heat of solution and the same calculated according to Person 's formula , is due to this decomposing action of the water .
It is manifest that no theory of solution can be accepted which does not take cognisance of all these facts .
In conclusion , I desire to acknowledge the intelligent assistance I have received in the conduct of these experiments from Mr. Harold P. White .
W " On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
Part II .
Samarium .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) In the concluding sentence of the Bakerian Lecture which I had the honour to deliver before the Royal Society , May 31st , 1883,1 said that the new method of Radiant Matter Spectroscopy there described had not only given me spectrum indications of the presence of yttrium as an almost invariable , though very minute , constituent of a large number of minerals , but had likewise revealed signs of another spectrum-yielding element .
I stated that I had repeatedly seen indications of another very beautiful spectrum characterised by a strong red and a double orange band .
1885 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
Elimination of Mercury Vapour from Vacuum Tubes .
It is much more difficult than is generally supposed to keep mercury vapour from diffusing into the experimental tubes .
The following plan answers perfectly so far as my experiments have yet gone:\#151 ; Sulphur is first prepared by keeping it fused at a high temperature till bubbles cease to come off , so as to get rid of water and hydrogen compounds .
It is then allowed to cool , and is pounded and sifted so as to get it in the form of granules averaging a millimetre in diameter .
A glass tube , a centimetre in diameter and about 2 feet long , is lightly packed for half its length with this sulphur , and next about 2 inches of iodide of sulphur ( I2S2 ) is added , and the rest of the tube is then filled up with sulphur .
Ignited asbestos is packed in at each end to keep the sulphur from blowing out whilst the vacuum is being made , or from being sucked through when air is suddenly let in .
This contrivance entirely keeps mercury vapour from passing through , since the iodide of sulphur holds its iodine very loosely , and fixes the mercury in the form of non-volatile red iodide .
A glass tube containing finely divided copper must follow in order to keep sulphur out .
With this blockade interposed between the pump and experimental tubes I have been unable to detect mercury vapour in any of the tubes , whether in the cold or on heating them .
The " Orange Band " Spectrum .
Since the date of my last paper I have devoted myself to the task of solving the problem presented by the double orange band first observed in 1881 .
With the yttrium experience as a guide it might be thought that this would not be a difficult task , but in truth it helped me little beyond increasing my confidence that the new , like the old , spectrum was characteristic of an element .
The extreme sensitiveness of the test is a drawback rather than a help .
To the inexperienced eye one part of " orange band " substance in ten thousand gives as good an indication as one part in ten , and by far the greater part of the chemical work undertaken in the hunt for the spectrumforming element , has been performed upon material which later knowledge shows does not contain sufficient to respond to any known chemical test .
Chemistry , except in few instances , as water-analysis and the detection of poisons , where necessity has stimulated minute research , takes little account of " tracesand when an analysis adds up to 99 99 , the odd 0*01 per cent , is conveniently put down to " impurities , " " loss , " or " errors of analysis .
" When , however , the 99'99 per cent , constitutes the impurity and this exiguous O'Ol is the precious material to be extracted , and when , moreover , its chemistry is Mr. W. Crookes .
[ June 18 , absolutely unknown , the difficulties of the problem become enormously enhanced .
Insolubility as ordinarily understood is a fiction , and separation by precipitants is nearly impossible .
A new chemistry has to be slowly built up , taking for data uncertain and deceptive indications , marred by the interfering power of mass in withdrawing soluble salts from a solution , and by the solubility of nearly all precipitates in water or in ammoniacal salts , when present in traces only .
What is here meant by " traces " will be better understood if I give an instance .
After six months ' work I obtained the earth didymia in a state which most chemists would call absolutely pure , for it contained probably not more than one part of impurity in five hundred thousand parts of didymia .
But this one part in half a million profoundly altered the character of didymia from a radiant-matter-spectroscopic point of view , and the persistence of this very minute quantity of interfering impurity entailed another six months ' extra labour to eliminate these final " traces " and to ascertain the real reaction of didymia pure and simple .
Chemistry of the Orange Band-forming Substance .
At first it was necessary to take stock , as it were , of all the facts regarding the supposed new substance , provisionally termed which had turned up during the search for the orange band .
In the first place x is almost as widely distributed as yttria , frequently occurring with the latter earth .
It is almost certainly one of the earthy metals , as it occurs in the insoluble oxalates , in the insoluble double sulphates , and in the precipitate with ammonia .
It is not precipitated by sodic thiosulphate , and moreover it must be present in very minute quantities , since the ammonia precipitate is always extremely small , and as a rule x is not found in the filtrate from this precipitate .
At this stage of the inquiry the chemical reactions of x were much more puzzling than with yttria .
At the outset an anomaly presented itself .
The orange band was prone to vanish in a puzzling manner .
Frequently an accumulation of precipitates tolerably rich in x was worked up for purposes of concentration , when the spectrum reaction suddenly disappeared , showing itself neither in precipitate or filtrate ; whilst on other occasions , when following apparently the same procedure , the orange band became intensified and- concentrated with no apparent loss .
The behaviour of the sulphate to water was also very contradictory ; on some occasions it appeared to be almost insoluble , whilst occasionally it dissolved in water readily .
Is " x " a Mixture ?
A very large series of experiments , which need not here be described in detail , resulted ultimately in establishing the remarkable fact that the x I sought was an earth which of itself could give no 1885 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
417 phosphorescent spectrum in the radiant matter tube , but became immediately endowed with this property by admixture with some other substance , which substance likewise by itself had no power of phosphorescing with a discontinuous spectrum .
" x " in Cerite .
In the corresponding yttrium research I was aided materially by the fact that the sought-for earth did not give an absorption spectrum .
This enabled me to throw out a large number of obscurely known elements , and I therefore early endeavoured to ascertain whether the supposed new earth , x , did or did not give an absorption spectrum .
Gradually it was noticed that whenever the didyminm absorption bands were strong the orange band spectrum was also particularly brilliant .
Moreover , amongst the earths previously enumerated as mixed with lime in the quest for x , I have mentioned that some of them gave the orange band spectrum with increased intensity ; the earths of the cerium group were the most noteworthy , and these considerations made it probable that here would be found the location of a ? .
Analysis of Oerite .
The cerium group consists of cerium , lanthanum , didymium , and samarium .
The first necessity was to get the earths ceria , lanthana , and the mixture hitherto called didymia , in a pure state , for my so-called pure earths of this group all showed the orange band in more or less degree .
The separation from each other of ceria , lanthana , didymia , and samaria is a most laborious process , and the amounts of these earths , obtainable in anything like a pure state , is small , compared with the mass of material worked up .
Full particulars are given in the paper as to the method adopted to obtain each of them in a state of purity .
Ceria .
The ceric oxide obtained was almost pure white .
A considerable thickness of a strong solution did not show a trace of absorption spectrum .
The atomic weight of the metal was taken and yielded the number 141*1 .
The ceric oxide gave no orange band spectrum in the radiant matter tube , either with or without the addition of lime .
Lanthana .
Lanthana is more difficult to purify than ceria .
Long after the lanthana appeared pure , it gave in the radiant matter tube a good Mr. W. Crookes .
[ June 18 , orange band spectrum when mixed with lime and treated as usual although without lime it gave no spectrum .
Ultimately , however a lanthana was obtained which , mixed with lime and treated in the usual manner , gave no orange band spectrum whatever .
This lanthana was snow-white , and had an atomic weight of 138'3 .
Didymia .
The earth formerly called didymia is now known to be a mixture of didymia and samaria , and systematic operations were now commenced with the object of obtaining the didymia and the samaria in a state of purity\#151 ; that is to say , in such a condition that one of them should show no orange band spectrum at all , whilst the other should give the spectrum in its highest degree of intensity .
I commenced the purification of didymia in the latter part of the year 1883 , and the operations have been going on since almost daily in my laboratory .
At intervals of some weeks the didymia in the then stage of purification was tested in the radiant matter tube , a little lime having previously been added to bring out the discontinuous phosphorescence .
During the first month or two the intensity of the orange band spectrum scarcely diminished .
After this it began to fade , but the last traces of orange band were very stubborn , and not till the last few weeks could I obtain a didymia to show no trace of the orange band spectrum ; and this result has not been accomplished without sacrifice .
My 1000 grammes have dwindled away bit by bit , till now less than half a gramme represents all my store .
Samaria .
The foregoing experiments left little doubt that a ?
, the orange-bandforming body , was samarium ; the last problem was , therefore , to get this earth in a pure state .
The general plan of operations was the same as I adopted in getting didymium free from samarium , only attention was now directed to the portions richest in samarium which bad been formerly set aside .
The colour of samaria , as pure as I have been able to prepare it , is white with the faintest possible tinge of yellow .
The absorption spectrum of samarium salts is much more feeble than the spectrum of didymium .
The Phosphorescent Spectrum of Samarium .
Pure samaric sulphate by itself gives a very feeble phosphorescent spectrum .
When , however , the samaria is mixed with lime before examination in the radiant matter tube , the spectrum is , if anything , more beautiful than that of yttrium .
The bands are not so numerous , but the contrasts are sharper .
Examined with a somewhat broad slit , and disregarding the fainter bands , which require care to bring them 1885 .
] OnRadiant Matter Spectroscopy .
419 out , the spectrum is seen to consist of three bright bands , \#151 ; red , orange , and green , \#151 ; nearly equidistant , the orange being the brightest .
With a narrower slit the orange and green bands are seen to be double , and on closer examination faint wings are seen , like shadows to the orange and green bands .
Preliminary experiments had shown me that lime was one of the best materials to mix with samaria in order to bring out its phosphorescent spectrum , but it was by no means the only body which would have the desired effect .
The satharium spectra , modified by other metals , may be divided into three groups .
The first group comprises the spectra given when glucinum , magnesium , zinc , cadmium , lanthanum , bismuth , or antimony is mixed with the samarium .
It consists simply of three coloured bands , red , orange , and green ; as a typical illustration I will select the lanthanum-samarium spectrum ( fig. 1 ) .
Fig. 1 .
The second type of spectrum gives a single red and orange and a double green band .
This is produced when barium , strontium , thorium , or lead , is mixed with samarium .
The lead-samarium spectrum ( fig. 2 ) illustrates this type .
Fig. 2 .
The third kind of spectrum is given by calcium mixed with samarium .
Here the red and green are single , and the orange double .
Aluminium would also fall into this class were it not that the broad ill-defined green band is also doubled .
The calcium-samarium spectrum ( fig. 3 ) is a good illustration of this type .
VOL. xxxvm .
2 H Mr. W. Crookes .
[ June 18 , Mixed Samarium and Yttrium Spectra .
It was interesting to ascertain what spectrum a mixture of samarium and yttrium would give .
A mixture of 90 parts of samaria to 10 of yttria was treated with sulphuric acid and then ignited , and afterwards examined in the radiant matter tube .
The result was as remarkable as it was unexpected .
Not a trace of the yttrium spectrum could be detected .
The powder phosphoresced with moderate intensity , bat the spectrum was almost the facsimile of that given by pure samaric sulphate , except that the sharp orange line , which in the spectrum of pure samaric sulphate is only just visible , had gained sufficiently in intensity to be measurable , and was found to lie at 2693 , on the scale .
A2 A large number of experiments were next tried on mixtures of samaria and yttria in different proportions , and the results are given in full in the paper .
Up to mixtures of 43 parts samaria and 57 parts yttria the spectrum nearly resembled the lead-samarium spectrum .
Not a band of the yttria spectrum could be detected , and the brilliant orange line stood out sharply in the whole series .
This spectrum is represented in fig. 4 .
Fig. 4 .
After that proportion had been reached a change rapidly came over the spectra , and in the next trial mixture\#151 ; samaria 35 yttria 65\#151 ; the only indication of the samarium spectrum that could now be found was seen in the two faint green bands next to the citron line of yfctria , and the new orange line , which shone out as brightly and sharply as ever .
1885 .
] On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy .
421 It will be remarked that a sudden change of spectrum occurs between very narrow limits of mixture .
The spectrum of a mixture of 44 parts samaria and 56 parts yttria , except for the orange line , is the pure samarium spectrum .
The spectrum of 42 samaria and 58 yttria is built up of some of the component bands of the spectrum of each earth ; whilst the spectrum of 39 samaria and 61 yttria is almost a pure yttria spectrum , the sharp orange line running across them all .
The Delicacy of the Spectrum Test for Samarium .
Experiments were now commenced with the object of getting some approach to a quantitative estimate of bow small a quantity of samarium could be detected .
A mixture was first made in the proportion of one part samarium to 100 parts of calcium .
The spectrum is very brilliant , and but little inferior in sharpness to the spectrum given by a 50 per cent , mixture .
A mixture was now prepared containing 1 part of samarium to 1000 parts of calcium .
Very little difference can be detected between the spectrum of this mixture and that of the last .
The bands are , however , a little less sharp .
A mixture containing one part of samarium to 10,000 parts of calcium was now tested .
The bands are now getting fainter , the second green band is fading out , and the continuous spectrum of calcic sulphate is getting brighter .
The next mixture tried contained one part of samarium in 100,000 parts of calcium .
Here the green is almost gone , being overshadowed by the continuous spectrum of calcium which has spread over it .
The red band has likewise almost disappeared in the greater brightness of the continuous red of the calcic spectrum .
The double orange band is still very prominent , and the black space , 2942 , between it and the green is very marked .
The next mixture , one part of samarium to 500,000 parts of calcium , gives a spectrum which is fainter than the last , but the orange bands are still distinctly visible .
The blank space between the yellow and green is strongly marked , but narrower than before .
A mixture of one part of samarium in 1,000,000 parts of calcium was next subjected to experiment .
In this the samarium spectrum is very feeble , and the orange bands are only to be seen with difficulty .
Now the most striking characteristic of this spectrum is the black space which still cuts out the greater portion of the yellow , A mixture of one of samarium in 2,500,000 parts of calcium was now taken .
In the spectrum shown by this mixture the bands of samarium have entirely gone , and its presence now is apparent only 2 h 2 Messrs. D. Herman and F. Rntley .
[ June 18 , by the darkening in the yellow portion of what otherwise would he a continuous spectrum .
The calcium phosphorescent spectrum by itself is continuous , with no break , lines , or bands in it .
The Anomalous Line rj 2693 .
On several occasions I have spoken of an orange line , 2693 , which by its brilliancy and sharpness is a prominent object in most of the samarium-yttrium spectra .
" With pure samaric sulphate it is exceeding faint .
With samaria containing 5 per cent , of yttria it is very little brighter ; with 10 per cent , of yttria it gains a little ; with 15 per cent , it is brighter still , and with a mixture of 80 parts samaria and 20 parts yttria it is at its maximum intensity .
It continues to be the most striking feature in the spectra of the various mixtures of samaria and yttria until the proportion becomes samaria 3 , yttria 97 , when it begins to get less bright , and only when pure yttria is reached does it altogether vanish .
It is noteworthy that so long as this bright line is a component of the spectrum , the other bands manifest decidedly less intensity , and many of them are suppressed .
The profound modification in the spectra of samaria and yttria developed by their mixture is , I believe , without precedent in spectrum analysis .
It is difficult to realise the character of the modification which converts somewhat faint diffused bands into one intensely sharp and brilliant line .
One important lesson taught by the many anomalies unearthed in these researches is , that inferences drawn from spectrum analysis per se are liable to grave doubt , unless at every step the spectroscopist goes hand in hand with the chemist .
Spectroscopy may give valuable indications , but chemistry must after all be the court of final appeal .
YI .
" On the Microscopic Characters of some Specimens of Devitrified Glass ; with Notes on certain analogous Structures in Rocks .
" By Douglas Herman and Frank Rutley .
Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) This paper relates first to the changes brought about in glass solids bounded by plane surfaces , by exposure to high temperatures , the main object of the paper being to elucidate the changes which have taken place in vitreous , and once vitreous , rocks by comparing the phenomena of natural devitrification with similar phenomena effected

