166 Mr. A. Y. Harcourt .
[ June 15 , XVIII .
" On an Instrument for Correcting Gaseous Volume .
' ' By A. Vernon Harcourt , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June IB , 1882 .
This instrument has been devised in order to facilitate the correction of the observed volume of a mass of gas , measured at any common temperature and pressure , to the volume the gas would occupy it measured under standard conditions .
A reading of the instrument furnishes a number which serves for the making of this correction , and stands instead of readings of the barometer and of the thermometer , and a reference to a table of the tension of aqueous vapour at different temperatures .
The instrument consists of two small glass tubes standing side by side ; the one is open above , having been drawn out and bent down1882 .
] On an Instrument for Correcting Gaseous Volume .
167 wards to exclude dust ; the other tube terminates in a bulb whose Capacity is about four and a half times that of the tube .
The two iL are connected below by means of caoutchouc tubing with a small cylinder containing mercury , closed above by a leather cap , which can be pressed down by a button attached to a screw moving m a fixed socket When the screw and button are lowered the mercury rises in both tubes .
The ends of the tubes and the reservoir ot mercury are contained in a square box , upon the bottom of which tney rest and whose top carries the socket m which the screw turns .
At the back of the box is a wooden upright which supports the tubes The tube which terminates in a bulb is graduated and figured so as to mark the capacity of the bulb and tube , down to each line of graduation .
... , In technical measurements of coal gas it is still customary to take for the standard conditions an atmospheric pressure equal to 30 inchbs of mercury and a temperature of 60 ' F. The instrument here figured has been made for correcting to these conditions .
The capacity of the bulb and stem down to the first line is 31 cub. centims. , and that of the graduated portion of the stem is 07 cub. centim. The bulb and stem have been charged first with a minute drop of water and then with a quantity of air , occupying under standard conditions 3^ cub. centims. , the stem below this level being filled with mercury .
This volume is marked on the instrument as 1000 , the unit taken being cub. centim. The top line of the graduation marks a capacity of 37 cub. centims. , and is figured 930 , this being the smallest volume to which the enclosed air is likely to be reduced by low temperature and high atmospheric pressure .
The maximum volume to which the enclosed air is likely to be expanded may be taken at 3'8 cub. centims. , and accordingly the lowest line of graduation marked on the stem is 1140 .
To use the instrument the pressure of the screw on the mercury is increased or relaxed until the level of the mercury is the same in both tubes .
A reading is then made on the graduated stem , and represents the volume occupied at the actual atmospheric pressuie and temperature by a mass of air in presence of water which , under standard conditions , occupies a volume 1000 .
Any volume of gas measured in a gasholder or registered ' by a meter , under the same conditions , may be corrected to its true volume , under standard conditions , by multiplying by 1000 and dividing by the number read upon the instrument .
When the standard conditions adopted are 0 ' C. and 760 millims. pressure the bulb is made somewhat larger , so that the 1000 graduation comes near the top of the stem , and the graduations are continued downwards to 1230 .
The name proposed for this instrument which serves to correct the measure of a gas , is aerorthometer .
1G8

