]\gt ; The Transformations of the Active Deposit of Thorium .
By E. MARSDEN , M.Sc .
, John Harling Fellow , and C. G. DARWIN , B.A. , leader in Mathematical Physics , University of Manchester .
Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.RS .
Received Apri12 , \mdash ; Read May 9 , 1912 .
) The present paper is concerned with a series of experiments undertaken with a view to discovering the genetic arrangement of various products of the active deposit of thorium .
The main part of the paper deals with the nature of the transformations which take place in the product or products generally included under the name thorium C. These transformations are of unusual interest and importance , for it will be seen that there is undoubted evidence in this case that the atoms of a single kin of matter have two distinct modes of disintegration .
The nomenclature adopted will be based on that given by Rutherford an Geige is as follows:\mdash ; Product . .
Th Em .
\mdash ; Th \mdash ; Th \mdash ; \mdash ; Th Radiation. .
and As a result of our experiments , however , we find that of the atoms of thorium , some , which we shall denote by , give -particles of range ' cm .
; and some , which we denote by , give -rays .
Further , our results suggest that the atoms rise on disintegration to the -ray product generally known as thorium , while the atoms disintegrate into a very short-lived -ray product thorium Thus our corresponds to the product given above as , while our corresponds to the parent of suggested by Marsden and Barratt , and called in their paper .
In what follows , when we speak of thorium , we shall mean the combined and .
Thorium will also generally include , owing to the very short period of the latter .
In the active deposit of thorium the doubtful question has been the relationship of the two -ray products and .
That one is not the parent of the other is shown by the recoil experiments of Hahn and MeitnerI who proved that if this were the case the second of the products must have 'Phil .
Mag 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 621 .
'Marsden and Barratt , .
Soc. Proc , vol. 24 , p. 50 ; 'Phys .
Zeitschr 1912 , , p. 19\amp ; Hehn and Meitner , ' Deutsok Phys. Ges 1909 , p. 55 .
VOL LXXXVn .
Messrs. E. Marsden and C. G. Darwin .
[ Apr. 2 , a period less than a few seconds , and the experiments of one of us in conjunction with Geiger and Barratt , *which showed that the second product could not have a very short period .
Comparing the number of -particles from the active deposit with that from the emanation , and Geiger and showed that the latter ives twice as many as the former .
As the emanation includes a second product , the short-lived thorium , this allows only one -particle for the active deposit .
Barratt and one of us found that for every short range -particle thorium there occur of long range ( thorium cm As the simple disintegration theory requires that successive products give the same number of -part.icles , this result indicates a branch point in the family in which 35 per cent. of the atoms -particles of cm .
range , and 65 per cent. give parti-cles of cm .
range .
The experiments we have undertaken were designed to elucidate how this branch occurs .
They may be divided as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Examination of magnetic spectrum of the -particles from thorium active deposit .
2 ) Attempts to separate thorium and thorium ( 3 ) Examination of the origin of the and -rays emitted by the active deposit .
( 1 ) nation of Magnetic Spectrum .
A wire was made active by exposing it to the emanation from a strong source of meso-thorium .
The -particles from this wire after passing through a thin sheet of mica to in , crease the ratio of their emergent velocities and ough a fine slit placed parallel to the wire , were deflected in a strong magnetic field and fell on .
zinc-sulphide screen , the whole apparatus being evacuated .
Countings of the numbers of scintillations were made at different points of the screen .
The resulting curve of distribution for a parti.cular experiment is shown in fig. 1 , where A represents the Bronson , ' Phil. Mag 1908 , vol. , p. 291 .
Geiger } Marsden , ' Phys. Zeitschr 1910 , vol. 12 , p. 7 .
Messrs. E. Marsden and C. G. Darwin .
[ Apr. 2 , Von Lerch* has shown that the various products of the active deposit of thorium can be separated by electrolysis or by dipping plates of nickel , etc. , into the solution of the active deposit .
Von Hevesy has recently extended these results , and has shown that when a metal plate is dipped into a solution of the active deposit the relative amounts of the products which are deposited on it depends on its electro-chemical potential with oegard to the solution .
Thus nickel deposits practically pure thorium in acid solution , while zinc , being strongly electro-positive , becomes coated in neutral solution with thorium , together with only about 20 per cent. of its equilibrium amount of thorium C. Other metals , such as copper and cadmium , give intermediate ratios of the two products .
If thorium exists , we might therefore expect to separate it from thorium by plates of various electro-chemical potentials in solutions of the active deposit , and comparing the ratio of the numbers of -particles emitted of ranges and cm .
To make this comparison we employed the same method as was used in the comparison of the rise curves , i.e. by comparing the leaks in an -ray electroscope when the source was covered with tinfoil sufficient to stop the cm .
range particles , and when the source was bare .
The ratio was in every case the same , and equal to that for ordinary thorium active deposit .
Again , the rate of decay of the activity of a nickel plate , dipped in a solution of the active deposit , was the same bare and covered , while the rise curves of the activity of a zinc plate were exactly similar .
We have also obtained thorium by recoil from the -ray product , thorium , and found that the ratio of the numbers of -particles with the different ranges was the same as for the ordinary active deposit in equilibrium .
No separation of and could be obtained in experiments in which the active deposit was heated to various temperatures up to 100 C. , this temperature being higher than the volatilisation points of either thorium or thorium C. ( 3 ) Examination of and -rays .
The foregoing ents having entirely failed to separate the -ray products , an investigation of the -rays was made .
Assuming the rule of Geiger and Nuttall to hold good , we have seen that it is necessary to assume the existence of a parent for thorium which we have denoted by .
This hypothetical substance cannot emit -rays , and we therefore tested for -rays .
The -rays of thorium active deposit have been shown by various investi- * Von Lerch , ' Wien .
Ber 1906 , vol. 114 , p. 18 .
Von Hevesy , ' Phil. Mag 1912 , vol. TransfOrmations of the Active osit of Thorium .
gators* to .
consist of two sets , slow -rays from thorium and relatively hard swift -rays generally attributed to thorium D. We need only consider the latter in testing for rays from thorium Ce , and we have , therefore , compared the absorption curve of the -rays from thorium with those from pure thorium D. Thorium was obtained by von .
Lerch 's method , a nickel plate being dipped in a hot hydrochloric acid solution of the active deposit .
In these conditions with carefully polished plates we were able to obtain pure with practically no thorium B. Before taking the absorption curves a sufficient time was allowed to elapse after taking the plate from the solution for the thorium and to attain equilibrium .
Pure thorium was obtained by recoil from a plate coated with the active deposit .
In comparing -ray absorption curves we used exactly similar conditions , the active plates being similar circular discs of nickel .
The base of the -ray electroscope was covered with aluminium foil equal in stopping power of -rays to about 9 cm .
of air , so that the -particles could not penetrate into the electroscope .
Aluminium foils for determining the absorption of the -rays were placed in a frame beneath the electroscope in such a way that their positions could be rapidly and exactly reproduced .
The active plates fitted into a special slot almost directly beneath the aluminium foils .
In calculating the absorption curves alowance for decay of the source was made by taking alternate readings with different foils and afterwards correcting by means of logarithmic curves .
The rates of leak were corrected for natural leak and also for -rays , which were determined by placing lead over the source sufficient to stop all the -rays .
he results are plotted in curves and ( D ) shown in , the absorption curve of the -rays from the whole active deposit being also given for comparison .
It is apparent from an inspection of the curves that the rays from thorium are more penetrating than those from thorium esting that thorium may exist and emit -rays still more penetrating .
In any case the results show that penetrating -rays must be attributed to thorium C. We will now consider the growth of thorium , from thorium C. In the experiments of von Lereh and Wartburg , in which thorium was separated by electrolysis or on nickel with an exposure for a very short period , it was found that the -ray activity rose with time for about 10 minutes before * Won Lerch , ibchr 1906 , vol. 7 , p. 913 ; Hahu and Meitner , 'Phys .
Zoibhr , ' 1908 , vol. 9 , ; A. F. Kovarik , 'Phil .
Mag 1910 , vol. 20 , p. 849 ; H. iger and A. F. Kovarik , ' Phil Mag 1911 , , p. 604 .
Von Urch and Wartburg , Yien .
Rr 1909 , vol. , p. 1675 .
the nickel plate and if thorium does not give -rays .
Von Lerch assumed .
as seemed very reasonable , that some thorium was deposited on the plate along with the tholium but in less quantity than the equilibrium amount .
In view of our experiments , however , it is possible that the initial activity may be partly or wholly due to -rays from thorium Q. If this is the case , and if the -rays of thorium are harder than those of thorium , we should expect that when the rise in activity is measured through a fairly thick layer of aluminium foil there should be a smaller rise than in the ordinary case , owing to the more penetrating.rays becoming a more important factor .
We have therefore made these experi ents , a nickel plate being .
in a 1912 .
] Transformations of the Active Deposit of Thorium .
23 solution of thorium active deposit for about half a minute ( i.e. sufficient time to get a reasonable activity ) and rapidly transferred to the electroscope for measurement .
The rise in activity in a particular experiment is shown in fig. 3 , readings being taken alternately with no absorption foils ( ) and with absorption foils equal to cm .
aluminium .
It will be seen from the curves that our assumptions are justified .
We have mentioned above that , in deducing the absorption curves of thorium and thorium , we corrected for the -ray leaks .
It was uoticed that , while the -ray effect in the case of was only per cent. of the -ray effect , yet in the case of thorium it was per cent. * This suggests that thorium gives more -radiation than thorium C. We have therefore repeated the above experiments with -rays , the variation of -ray activity with time being observed for a nickel plate dipped in active deposit solution for half a minute .
A difficulty was experienced in the small amount of activity obtainable , a specially large -ray electroscope being necessary .
The result of a particular experiment is shown in fig. ( ) , and it will be seen that the -ray activity rises from a very small initial value , indicating that practically the whole of the -radiation comes from thorium , and that very little thorium is deposited on the plate along with the thorium C. The foregoing rise curves by and -rays were analysed , and expressed , where amount of iouisation at time and * It nlAy be of interest to note that for pure radium the ratio under the was per cenh See Rutherford , ' Radioaclivity , ' 2nd Edition , p. 330 Messrs. E. Marsden and C. G. Darwin .
are constants , and and are the transformation constants of thorium and thorium respectively .
An inspection of the equation will show that , if the whole effeot were due to thorium would be equal to 1 , while , if the whole activity were due to would be infinite .
Intermediately , the larger is , the smaller the fraction to be attributed to D. Table I gives the values of in several experiments .
The values taken for and are and respectively .
During the course of the various experiments , we have made a large number of measurements of the periods of .thoriumB , , and D. The mean values found are hours , and minutes respectively .
These values are in good agreement with those of other observers , and are probably correct to less than 1 per cent. It will be noticed that the values vary slightly in different experiments .
Apart from the errors of measurement , this is probably due to variations in the electro-chemical potential of the nickel plates , although considerable care was taken in the polishing before each experiment .
Thus , in different experiments , there would be variations in the small amount of initially present .
Thorium seems to be electro-chemically very similar to thorium B. Cases in which was found to be present on the nickel plates were also cases in which the curves rose from a somewhat high initial value , while we were able to deposit thorium on a zinc plate from a solution of , and this is an electro-chemical property of thorium B. Recoil of Thorium from Thorium Before considering more fully the deductions to be made from the above experiments , it will be convenient to describe some experiments on the recoil efficiency of thorium from thorium C. A metal plate was aotivated with the active deposit by exposure to the emanation .
The recoil thorium was obtained from this plate on a second plate , placed about 1 mm. from it in air , and at a negative potential of 200 volts .
It was found that , measuring by -rays , 31 per cent. the activity of the souroe could be 1912 .
] mations of the Active Deposit of Thorium .
25 transferred to the oecoil plate , while measured by -rays the ratio was only per cent. , which was equal to per cent. when corrected for the soft -rays of thorium B. Special ments showed that no appreciable radiation comes from thorium , and , assuming that thorium does not give -rays , it can easily be calculated from these ratios that thorium must give about times as much -radiation as the thorium in equilibrium with it .
The importance of this ratio ( below called ) will appear later .
Interpr.etation of Results .
To interpret the results so obtained we must proceed by a more accurate analysis .
The evidence of the -particles proves conclusively that tbere is a branch at thorium and prescribes a ratio 65 : 35 for its two members .
It is clearly reasonable to suppose that thorium comes from either one or other or both of these branches , while the same applies to the -rays of C. Let us then suppose that a fraction of thorium gives -rays and a fraction ultimately becomes thorium , where and may have any of the values , or .
Considering the foregoing rise curves of thorium from thorium the amounts of the products present at any time are given by the equations ; The nickel plate sometimes takes a certain amount of thorium out of solution .
Let this be a fraction of the equilibrium amount , that is for every atom of there is of thorium initially on the plate .
time then No Let be the -ray ionisation effect in the electroscope of a single disintegrating atom of thorium , and let be the corresponding quantity for that fraction of thorium which gives -rays .
Then the curve that will be observed in the electroscope is The quantity above called is thus whence Messrs. E. Marsden and C. G. Darwin .
[ Apr. 2 , In exactly the same way for the -rays , Taking corresponding selected values of from Table I , we obtain in the case of -rays , by substituting ; Supposing to be the same in the -ray experiments we can now substitute its extreme values and and , putting in the value of , we get lies between and This ratio being known within fairly narrow limits , it is a very simple matter to deduce the absorption curve of pure thorium from those of and D. The curve is shown in fig. 2 .
The absorption coefficients corresponding to the curves , and are and c respectively .
Geiger and Kovarik* give a value for , the difference being probably due to experimental arrangement .
Assuming the values to be proportional , the absorption coefficients of thorium and thorium under their standard conditions would be and c aluminium respectively .
We now consider the deductions to be derived from the value of .
An estimate of this ratio may also be obtained , as will be seen above , from recoil efficiency of and -rays .
The best value from the combined experiments appears to us to be about .
We must determine what are the best values bo choose for and .
Lt us assume that an atom of thorium gives the same number ( probably one ) of -particles as the -radiating atoms of thorium C. The rays from thorium are distinctly harder than those from thorium , and we might therefore expect to be somewhat less than unity .
Prof. Butherford has kindly informed us that , as the result of some unpublished calculations , he finds that the ionisation produced by equal numbers of -particles varies with the coefficient between the square and cube root .
Taking the 2/ 5 power , should be and may have any of the three values , , or and of the nine possible combinations two give results near the observed .
These are , which gives , and , which gives .
The latter value agrees best with the experimental result , , and also leads to more simplicity in interpretation .
Thus , of the atoms of thorium .
cit. Marsden and Barratt , 1912 .
] Transformations of the Active Deposit of Thorium .
35 per cent. give -rays of range cm .
, and ecome atoms of thorium D. The remaining 66 per cent. of the atoms give very penetrating -rays , and become atoms of thorium .
If our assumptions are justified , the following equivalent schemes show the process diagrammatically.* In the second scheme and do not denote different substances , but the same substance breaking down in two different ways .
This arrangement satisfies all the and -ray conditions .
It , satisfies the conditions of Geiger and Nuttall 's empirical rule .
It also } satisfies the experiments of Geiger and Kovarik on the numbers of -particles from the various products , for there are as many -radiating atoms as -radiating atoms in thorium , and their results can explained by assuming that and give one -particle each per disintegrating atom .
With regard to the final products , they are probably inactive .
A plate .
was exposed for two weeks to the emanation from the strong meso-thorium preparation .
At the present time , after a period of six months , there is no detectable activity on the plate .
The atomic weight of thorium is *Note added , 1912.\mdash ; In a recent number of the 'Physikalische Zeitschrift ( 1912 , vol. 13 , p. 264 ) , Baeyer , Hahn , and Meitner have given details of the magnetic spectrum of the -rays of the various thorium products .
They show that givea some very slow -rays with velocities and the velocity of light , the rays giving -defined lines in the spectrum .
Prof. Rutherford has shown that hne spectra of -rays are generally associated with -rays ( ' Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc 1912 ) , that these slow -rays probably oome from Th D. In the above experiments these slow -rays would be totally absorbed by the foils required to cut off the -rays , and they would not produce ionisation in the electroscope .
Hence , if there are a considerable fraction of such -rays , our conclusions on the ratio found for may require slight modification .
Geiger and Kovarik , 100 .
, ' Phil. Mag 1911 , vol. 22 , 28 The sformations of the Active Deposit of Thorium .
and subtraeting six times the atomic weight of helium from this number for the -particles from thorium , radio-thorium , thorium X , thorium emanation , thorium , and thorium we obtain a number very near to the atomic weight of bismuth .
There appears to be little chemical evidence , however , for assuming bismuth to be a final product .
With regard to the and -radiations it is very remarkable the very penetrating -rays of thorium are not accompanied by -radiation , while the relatively soft -rays of thorium accompany an intense radiation , which is the most penetrating known .
It can be calculated that there is probably more than six times as much energy in the -rays of thorium :as in its -rays .
It is possible to regard the branching in two different ways , and this may ultimately throw light on the fundamental nature of radioactive change .
In ordinary processes the characteristic quantity measured is the transformation constant .
The most significant way of regarding this constant is as the chance that an atom will break down in any second .
Now in the present case there are two modes of transformation .
It is possible to suppose that the fundamental fact is the breakdown of the atom , for which there is a probability , and that this breakdown is succeeded by a secondary effect , the expulsion of a particle either or ; or we may ( suppose that there is a chance that any atom shall emit an -particle and thereby break down , and an independent chance that the atom gives particle causing a breakdown .
It would require and ; and the two ways of regarding the matter could not be tdistinguished by any experiment .
However , the two conceptions lead to different values of the transformation constant of the atoms which give the -particles , namely , and .
If the empirical relation between range and transformation constant given by Geiger and Nuttall can be established accurately , and if it can be regarded as holding for the above type of disintegration , it should be possible to predict the transformation constant corresponding to a range cm .
If this comes to then the basal fact radioactivity is the atomic breakdown and the radiation is secondary , but if it comes to then the emission of a particle actually is the fundamental event in radioactive change .
The ranges of the -particles of the thorium products are , however , not yet known with sufficient accuracy for purpose , as we should require them within about one third of a millimetre .
*Cf .
Soddy , ' Phil. Mag 1909 , vol. 18 , p. 739 .
On the Formation of a Reversible Get .
Summary .
1 .
By magnetic deflection of the -particles from thorium active deposit the result of Marsden and Barratt , that the -particles of cm .
and cm .
range do not occur in equal numbers , has been confirmed .
2 .
Chemical , physical and recoil experiments alike failed to separate the atoms giving the -particles of the two different ranges .
3 .
The experiments show that thorium emits very penetrating -rays practically unaccompanied by -rays , while thorium gives relatively soft -rays with intense penetrating -rays .
4 .
The results suggest that of the atoms of thorium , 35 per cent. emit particles of range cm .
and become converted into atoms of rium .
while the remaining 65 per cent. emit -particles and disintegrate into atoms of a very short-lived -ray product thorium ( range cm We wish to our indebtedness to Prof. Rutherford for his ever ready advice and encouragement .
On the Formation of Heat-Reversible Gel .
By W. B. HARDY , F.B.S. ( Received April ll , \mdash ; Read May 16 , 1912 .
) In the course of his study of the cyclic ketonic compounds , ) .
Ruhemann has discovered a substance which is , I think , destined to play an important part in the development of the theory of gelation .
The substance is 5-dimethylaminoanilo-3 : 4 diphenylcyclopentene-l : 2 dione , * the formula being It is a solid at ordinary temperature , and occurs either as orange-coloured needles or as small dark red plates ; the separate from dilute solutions , the latter from ooncentrated solutions in absolute alcohol .
' If a little water is added to the hot alcoholic solution , no crystals mann and Naunton , Chem. Soc. Trans 1912 , vol. 101 , p. 42 .

