II .
" On the Properties of Liquid Carbonic Acid .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Professor TYNDALL .
Received January 17 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author has shown how a small quantity of liquid carbonic acid may be readily and safely prepared in glass tubes closed by stoppers of gutta percha , and be brought in a pure state into contact with any solid substance upon which it may be desired to ascertain its chemical or solvent action , or be submitted H to the action of electricity by means of wires introduced through the stoppers .
By immersing about fifty substances in the liquid acid for various periods of time , he has found that it is comparatively a chemically inert substance , and not deoxidized by any ordinary deoxidizing agent except the alkali-metals .
Its solvent power is extremely limited ; it dissolves camphor freely , iodine sparingly , and a few other bodies in small quantities ; it does not dissolve oxygen-salts , and it does not redden solid extract of litmus ; it penetrates gutta percha , dissolves out the dark-brown colouring matter , and leaves the gutta percha undissolved , and much more white .
It also acts in a singular and somewhat similar manner upon india-rubber ; the india-rubber whilst in the liquid acid exhibits no change , but immediately on being taken out it swells to at least six or eight times its original dimensions , and then slowly contracts to its original volume , evidently from expansion and liberation of absorbed carbonic acid ; and it is found to be perfectly white throughout its substance .
These effects upon gutta percha and india-rubber may prove useful for practical purposes .
The liquid acid is a strong insulator of electricity ; sparks ( from a Ruhmkorff 's coil ) which would pass readily through -nds of an inch of cold air , would with difficulty pass through about 7-lth of an inch of the liquid acid .
In its general properties it is somewhat analogous to bisulphide of carbon , but it possesses much less solvent power over fatty substances .

