A paper was read , if On the reciprocal attractions of positive and negative electric Currents , whereby the motion of each is alternately accelerated and retarded .
" By P. Cunningham , Esq. , Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Alexander Copland Hutchison , Esq. , F.R.S. The author found that a square plate of copper , six inches in dia ?
meter , placed vertically in the plane of the magnetic meridian , and connected with a voltaic battery by means of wires soldered to the middle of two opposite sides of the plate , exhibited magnetic polarities on its two surfaces , indicative of the passage of transverse and spiral electrical currents , at right angles to the straight line joining the ends of the wires .
The polarities were of opposite kinds on each side of this middle line , in each surface - , and were reversed on the other surface of the plate .
The intensities of these polarities at every point of the surface were greatest the greater its distance from the middle line , where the plate exhibited no magnetic action .
The author infers from this and other experiments of a similar kind , that each electric current is subject , during its transverse motion , to alternations of acceleration and retardation , the positive current on the one side of the plate and the negative on the other , by their reciprocal at ?
tractions , progressively accelerating each other 's motions , as they approach , in opposite directions , the edge round which they have to turn .
After turning round the edge their motion will , he conceives , be checked by coming in contact with the accelerated portions of the opposing currents to which they respectively owed their former in ?
crease of velocity3 so that the one current will be retarded at the part of the plate where the other is accelerated .
To these alternate accelerations and retardations of electric currents during their pro ?
gressive motion , the author is disposed to refer the alternate dark and luminous divisions in a platina wire heated by electricity , as was observed by Dr. Barker .

