5g Prof. J. Tyndall the [ Jan. 15,1 all the torsional effects are modified by the mechanical and magnetic properties of that substance .
t _ Each current leaves a residuary magnetic effect in the bar , amounting in iron to about one tenth of its original influence .
The residuary magnetism of coil-currents is affected and sometimes reversed by axial ones ; and that of axial currents is also removed by coil ones , and by a red heat .
The condition left by an axial current is smaller in degree and less stable , in a vertical iron wire or one in the terrestrial magnetic meridian , than that left by a coil one , partly because of the influence of terrestrial magnetism ; but in a position at right angles to that the effect is different .
The torsion produced by a coil-current may be used as a test , and partly as a measure , of the residuary effect of an axial one ; and that produced by an axial current may be employed to detect , and to some extent measure , ordinary magnetism in the bar .
As an opposite coil-current at once reverses the ordinary longitudinal magnetism of a bar of iron , so also an opposite axial one at once reverses its transverse magnetism . .
Many instances have been met with in which the transverse and longitudinal magnetic states produced by the two currents coexisted in the same substance .
The torsional influence of the excited helix is distributed equally throughout its length ; so also is that of the current in the bar .
All the torsions are closely related to the well-known electric sounds , and to particular positions and internal movements of the particles of the iron .
Signs of electrotorsion were obtained with a bar of nickel , but not with wires of platinum , silver , copper , lead , tin , cadmium , zinc , magnesium , aluminium , brass , or German-silver , nor with a thick rod of zinc , or a cord of gutta percha .
January 15 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following Paper was read j " Preliminary Account of an Investigation on the Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received January 1st , 1874 .
This notice embraces the scientific results of an inquiry on Fog-signals , undertaken at the instance of the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House , and communicated with their friendly concurrence to the Royal The investigation was begun on the 19th of May , 1873 , and continued till the 4th of July .
It was resumed on the 8th of October , and con- 1874 .
] Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
tinned to the end of November .
It also includes observations made during the dense fog which enveloped London on December 9 and the succeeding days .
Gongs and bells were excluded from this investigation , in consequence of their proved inferiority to other instruments of signalling .
The experiments were made with trumpets blown by powerfully compressed air , with steam-whistles , guns , and a steam siren , associated with a trumpet 16 feet long .
Daboll 's horn , or trumpet , had been highly spoken of by writers on fog-signals .
A third-order apparatus of the kind had been reported as sending its sound to a distance of from 7 to 9 miles against the wind , and to a distance of 12 to 14 miles with the wind .
Holmes had improved upon Daboll ; and with two instruments of Holmes , not of the third but of the first order , our experiments were made .
On the 19th of May at 3 miles distance they became useless as a fog-signal \gt ; at a distance of 4 miles , with paddles stopped and all on board quiet , they were wholly unheard .
At a distance of 2 miles from the loreland the \\ hist It 's tested on May 19 became useless .
The 12 o'clock gun , fired with a 1 lb. charge at Drop Fort in Dover , was well heard on May 19 , when the horns and whistles were inaudible .
On the 20th of May the permeability of the atmosphere had somewhat increased , but the steam-whistle failed to pierce it to a depth of 3 miles .
At 4 miles the horns , though aided by quietness on board , were barely heard .
By careful nursing , if I may use the expression , the horn-sounds were carried to a distance of 6 miles .
The superiority of the 18-pounder gun , already employed by the Trinity House as a fog-signal , over horns and whistles was on this day so decided as almost to warrant its recommendation to the exclusion of all the other signals .
Nothing occurred on the 2nd of June to exalt our hopes of the trumpets and whistles .
The horns were scarcely heard at a distance of 3 miles ; sometimes indeed they failed to be heard at 2 miles .
By keeping every thing quiet on board , they were afterwards heard to a distance of 6 miles\#151 ; a result , however , mainly due to the improved condition o t e atmosphere .
Considering the demands as to sound-range made by writers on this subject , the demonstrated incompetence of horns and whistles of great reputed power to meet these demands was not encouiatomg .
n the 3rd of June the atmosphere had changed surprisingly .
It was loaded overhead with dark and threatening clouds ; the sounds , nevertheless , were well heard beyond 9 miles .
On June 10th the acoustic transparency of the air was also very fair , the distance penetrated being upwards ot 8f miles .
The subsidence of the sound near the boundary of the acoustic shadow on the Dower side of the Foreland , and before entering the shadow , was to-day sudden and extraordinary , affecting equally both horns and guns .
We were warned on June 3 that the supremacy of the gun on one occasion by no means implied its supremacy on all occasions , Prof. J. Tyndall on the [ Jan. 15 , the self-same guns which on May 20th had so far transcended the horns being on this day their equals and nothing more .
The 11th of June was employed in mastering still further the facts relating to the subsidence of the sound east and west of the Foreland ; the cause of this subsidence being in part due to the weakening of the sonorous waves by their divergence into the sound shadow , and in part to interference .
The atmosphere on the 25th of June was again very defective acoustically .
The sounds reached a maximum distance of 6| miles ; but at 4 miles , on returning from the maximum distance , they were very faint .
The day had , as it were , darkened acoustically .
On this day the guns lost still further their preeminence , and at 5| miles were inferior to the horn .
No sounds whatever reached Dover Pier on the 11th ; and it was only towards the close of the day that they succeeded in reaching it on the 25th .
Thus by slow degrees the caprices of the atmosphere made themselves known to us , showing us subsequently that within the limits of a single day , even within a single minute , the air , as a vehicle of sound , underwent most serious variations .
The 26th of June was a far better day than its predecessor , the acoustic range being over 9 miles .
The direction of the wind was less favourable to the sound on this day than on the preceding one , plainly proving that something else than the wind must play an important part in shortening the sound-range .
On the 1st of July we experimented upon a rotating horn , and heard its direct or axial blast , which proved to be the strongest , at a distance of 101 miles .
The sounds were also heard at the Tame light-ship , which is 12f miles from the Foreland .
The atmosphere had become decidedly clearer acoustically , but not so optically ; for on this day thick haze obscured the white cliffs of the Foreland .
In fact , on days of far greater optical purity , the sound had failed to reach one third of the distance attained to-day .
In the light of such a fact , any attempt to make optical transparency a measure of acoustic transparency , must be seen to be delusive .
On the 1st of July a 12-inch American whistle , of which we had heard a highly favourable account , was tried in place of the 12-inch English whistle ; but , like its predecessor , the performance of the new instrument fell behind that of the horns .
An interval of 12 hours sufficed to convert the acoustically clear atmosphere of July 1 into an opaque one ; for on the 2nd of July even the horn-sounds , with paddles stopped and all noiseless on board , could not penetrate further than 4 miles .
Thus each succeeding day provided us with a virtually new atmosphere , clearly showing that conclusions founded upon one day s observations might utterly break down in the presence of the phenomena of another day .
This was most impressively demonstrated on the day now to be referred to .
The acoustic imperviousness of the 3rd of July was found to be still greater than that of the 2nd , while the optical purity of the day was sensibly perfect .
The cliffs of the Foreland could be seen to-day at ten times the distance at which they ceased to be ]874 .
] Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
61 visible on the 1st , while the sounds were cut off at one sixth of the distance .
At 2 p.m. neither guns nor trumpets were able to pierce the transparent air to a depth of 3 , hardly to a depth of 2 miles .
This extraordinary opacity was proved conclusively to arise from the irregular admixture with the air of the aqueous vapour raised by a powerful sun .
This vapour , though perfectly invisible , produced an acoustic cloud impervious to the sound , and from which the sound-waves were thrown back as the waves of light are from an ordinary cloud .
The waves thus refused transmission produced by their reflection echoes of extraordinary strength and duration .
This I may remark is the first time that audible echoes have been proved to be reflected from an optically transparent atmosphere .
By the lowering of the sun the production of the vapour was checked , and the transmissive power of the atmosphere restored to such an extent that , at a distance of 2 miles from the Foreland , at 7 p.m. , the intensity of the sound was at least thirty-six times its intensity at 2 p.m. On October 8 the observations were resumed , a steam siren and a Canadian whistle of great power being added to the list of instruments .
A boiler had its steam raised to a pressure of 70 lbs. to the square inch ; on opening a valve this steam would issue forcibly in a continuous stream , and the sole function of the siren was to convert this stream into a series of separate strong puffs .
This was done by causing a disk with 12 radial slits to rotate behind a fixed disk with the same number of slits .
When the slits coincided a puff escaped ; when they did not coincide the outflow of steam was interrupted .
Each puff of steam at this high pressure generated a sonorous wave of great intensity ; the successive waves linking themselves together to a musical sound so intense as to be best described as a continuous explosion .
During the earlier part of October 8 the optical transparency of the air was very great ; its acoustic transparency , on the other hand , was very defective .
Clouds blackened and broke into a rain- and hail-shower of tropical violence .
The sounds , instead of being deadened were improved by this furious squall ; and , after it had lightened , thus lessening the local noises , the sounds were heard at a distance of 7| miles distinctly louder than they had been heard through the preceding rainless atmosphere at a distance of 5 miles .
At 5 miles distance , therefore , the intensity of the sound had been at least doubled by the rain\#151 ; a result entirely opposed to all previous assertions , but an obvious consequence of the removal by condensation and precipitation of that vapour the mixture of which with the air had been proved so prejudicial to the sound .
On this day a dependence was established between the pitch of a note and its penetrative power\#151 ; the\gt ; siren generating 480 waves being slightly inferior to the horns , while generating 400 waves a second it was distinctly superior .
The maximum range on October 8 was 9 miles .
On October 9 the transmissive power had diminished , the maximum range being 7| miles .
On 02 Prof. J. Tyndall on the [ Jan. 15 , 1 both these days the syren proved to be superior to the horns , and on some occasions superior to the gun .
On the 10th and 11th , a gale having caused our steamer to seek safety \ in the Downs , we made land-observations .
The duration of the aerial echoes was for the syren and the gun 9 seconds , for the horns 6 seconds .
The duration varies from day to day .
We sought to estimate the influence of the violent wind , and found that the sound of the gun failed to reach us in two cases at a distance of 550 yards to windward , the sound of the svren at the same time rising to a piercing intensity .
To leeward the gun was heard at five times , and certainly might have been heard at fifteen times the distance attained to windward .
The momentary character of the gun-sound renders it liable to be quenched by a single puff of wind ; but sounds of low pitch generally , whether momentary or not , suffer more from an opposing wind than high ones .
We had on the 13th another example of the powerlessness of heavy rain to deaden sound .
On the 14th the maximum range was 10 miles , but the'atmosphere did not maintain this power of transmission .
It was a day of extreme optical clearness ; but its acoustic clearness diminished as the day advanced .
In fact the sun was in action .
\#165 ; e proved to-day that by lowering the pitch of the Canadian whistle , its sound , which had previously been inaudible , became suddenly audible .
The day at first was favourable to the transmission of the longer sound-waves .
After a lapse of three hours the case was reversed , the high-pitched syren being then heard when both gun and horns were inaudible .
But even this state of things did not continue , so rapid and surprising are the caprices of the atmosphere .
At a distance of 5 miles , at 3.30 p.m. , the change in transmissive power reduced the intensity of the sound to at least one half of what it possessed at 11.30 a.m. , the wind throughout maintaining the same strength and direction .
Through all this complexity the knowledge obtained on July 3 sheds the light of a principle which reduces to order the apparent confusion .
October 15 was spent at Dungeness in examining the performance of Daboll 's horn .
It is a fine instrument , and its application was ably worked out by its inventor ; still it would require very favourable atmospheric conditions to enable it to warn a steamer before she had come dangerously close to the shore .
The direction in which the aerial echoes return was finely illustrated to-day , that direction being always the one in which the axis of the horn is pointed .
The 16th was a day of exceeding optical transparency , but of great acoustic opacity .
The maximum range was only 5 miles .
On this day the howitzer and all the whistles were clearly overmastered by the syren .
It was , moreover , heard at 3\#163 ; miles with the paddles going , while the gun was unheard at 2| miles .
With no visible object that 1874 .
] Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
could possibly yield an echo in sight , the pure aerial echoes , coming from the more distant southern air , were distinct and long-continued at a distance of 2 miles from the shore .
Near the base of the Foreland cliff we determined their duration and found it to be 11 seconds , while that of the best whistle echoes was 6 seconds .
On this day three whistles , sounded simultaneously , were pitted against the siren , and found clearly inferior to it .
On the 17th four horns were compared with the siren and found inferior to it .
This was our day of greatest acoustic transparency , the sound reaching a maximum of 15 miles for the siren , and of more than 16 for the gun .
The echoes on this day were continued longer than on any other occasion .
They continued for 15 seconds , their duration indicating the atmospheric depth from which they came .
On October 18 , though the experiments were not directed to determine the transmissive power of the air , we were not without proof that it continued to be high .
From 10 to 10.30 a.m. , while waiting for the blasts of the siren at a distance of 3 miles from the Foreland , the continued reports of what we supposed to be the musketry of skirmishing parties on land were distinctly heard by us all .
We afterwards learned that the sounds arose from the rifle-practice on Kingsdown beach , 51 miles away .
On July 3 , which , optically considered , was a far more perfect day , the 18-pounder , howitzer , and mortar failed to make themselves heard at half this distance .
The 18th was mainly occupied in determining the influence of pitch and pressure on the syren-sound .
Taking the fluctuations of the atmosphere into account , I am of opinion that the siren , performing from 2000 to 2400 revolutions a second , or , in other words , generating from 400 to 480 waves per second , best meets the atmospheric conditions .
We varied the pressure from 40 to 80 lbs. on the square inch ; and though the intensity did not appear to rise in proportion to the pressure , the higher pressure yielded the hardest and most penetrating sound .
The 20th was a rainy day with strong wind .
Tp to a distance of 51 miles the svren continued to be heard through the sea- and paddle-noises .
In rough weather , indeed , when local noises interfere , the syren-sound far transcends all other sounds .
On various occasions to-day it proved its mastery over both gun and horns .
On the 21st the wind was strong and the sea high .
The horn-sounds , with paddles going , were lost at 4 miles , while the siren continued serviceable up to 6| miles .
The gun to-day was completely overmastered .
Its puffs were seen at the Foreland ; but its sound was unheard when the siren was distinctly heaid .
Heavy rain failed to damp the power of the siren .
The whistles were also tried to-day , but were found far inferior to the siren .
On the 22nd it blew a gale , and the 'Galatea ' quitted us .
We made observations on land on the influence of the wind and of local noises .
Ihe sheltei of the Coastguard Station at Cornhill enabled us to hear gun-sounds Prof. J. Tyndall on the [ Jan. 15 , which were quite inaudible to an observer out of shelter ; in the shelter also both horn and syren rose distinctly in power ; but they were also heard outside when the gun was quite unheard .
As usual the sound to leeward was far more powerful than those at equal distances to windward .
The echoes from the cloudless air were to-day very fine .
On the 23rd , in the absence of the steamer , the observations on the influence of the wind were continued .
The quenching of the gun-sounds , in particular , to windward was well illustrated .
All the sounds , however , gun included , were carried much further to leeward than to windward .
The effect of a violent thunderstorm and downpour of rain in exalting the sound was noticed by observers both to windward and to leeward of the Foreland .
In the rear of the syren its range to-day was about a mile .
At right angles to the axis , and to windward , it was about the same .
To leeward it reached a distance of 7j miles .
On the 24th , when observations were made afloat in the steam-tug * Palmerston/ the syren exhibited a clear mastery over gun and horns .
The maximum range was 7f miles .
The wind had changed from W.S.W. to S.E. , then to E. As a consequence of this , the syren was heard loudly in the streets of Dover .
On the 27th the wind was E.N.E. ; and the syren-sound penetrated everywhere through Dover , rising over the moaning of the wind and all other noises .
It was heard at a distance of 6 miles from the Foreland on the road to Folkestone , and would probably have been heard all the way to Folkestone had not the experiments ceased .
Afloat and in the axis , with a high wind and sea , the syren , and it only , reached to a distance of 6 miles ; at 5 miles it was heard through the paddle noises .
On the 28th further experiments were made on the influence of pitch , the syren when generating 480 waves a second being found more effective than when generating 300 waves a second .
The maximum range in the axis on this day was 7| miles .
The 29th of October was a day of extraordinary optical transparency but by no means transparent acoustically .
The gun was the greatest sufferer .
At first it was barely heard at 5 miles j but afterwards it was tried at 5| , 4| , and 2| miles , and was heard at none of these distances .
The syren at the same time was distinctly heard .
The sun was shining strongly ; and to its augmenting power the enfeeblement of the gun-sound was doubtless due .
At 3| miles , subsequently , dead to windward , the syren was faintly heard ; the gun was unheard at 2f miles .
On land the syren and horn-sounds were heard to windward at 2 to 2| miles , to leeward at 7 miles ; while in the rear of the instruments they were heard at a distance of 5 miles , or five times as far as they had been heard on October 23 .
' .
The 30th of October furnished another illustration of the fallacy of the notion which considers optical and acoustic transparency to go hand in hand .
The day was very hazy , the white cliffs of the Foreland at the greater distances being quite hidden ; still the gun- and syren-sounds 1874 .
] Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
reached on the bearing of the Yarn light-vessel to a distance of 11 a miles .
The siren was heard through the paddle-noises at 9| miles , while at 8| miles it became efficient as a signal with the paddles going .
The horns were heard at miles .
This was during calm .
Subsequently , with a wind from the N.N.W. , no sounds were heard at 6| miles .
On land , the wind being across the direction of the sound , the siren was heard only to a distance of 3 miles N.E. of the Foreland ; in the other direction it was heard plainly on Folkestone Pier , 8 miles distant .
Both gun and horns failed to reach Folkestone .
Wind , rain , a rough sea , and great acoustic opacity characterized October 31 .
Both gun and horns were unheard 3 miles away , the siren at the same time being clearly heard .
It afterwards forced its sound with great power through a violent rain-squall .
Wishing the same individual judgment to be brought to bear upon the sounds on both sides of the Foreland , in the absence of our steamer , which had quitted us for safety , I committed the observations to Mr. Douglass .
He heard them at 2 miles on the Dover side , and on the Sandwich side , with the same intensity , at 6 miles .
A gap ( employed by the engineers in making arrangements for pointing the siren in any required direction ) here occurred in our observations .
They were resumed , however , on November 21 , when comparative experiments were made upon the gun and siren .
Both sources of sound , when employed as fog-signals , will not unfrequently have to cover an arc of 180 ' ; and it was desirable to know with greater precision how the sound is affected by the direction in which the gun or siren is pointed .
The gun , therefore , was in the first instance pointed on us and fired , then turned and fired along a line perpendicular to that joining us audit .
There was a sensible , though small , difference between the sounds which reached us in the two cases .
A similar experiment was made with the siren ; and here the falling off when the instrument was pointed perpendicular to the line joining us and it was Arery considerable .
This is what is to be expected ; for the trumpet associated with the siren is expressly intended to gather up the sound and project it in a certain direction , while no such object is in view in the construction of the gun .
The experiments here referred to were amply corroborated by others made on November 22 and 23 .
On both of these days the ' Galatea 's ' guns were fired to windward and to leeward .
The aerial echoes in the latter case were distinctly louder and longer than in the former .
The experiment has been repeated many times , and always with the same result .
In front ?
of the Cornhill Coastguard Station , and only mile from the Foreland , the siren , on the 21st , though pointed towards us , fell suddenly and considerably in power .
Before reaching Dover Pier it had ceased to be heard .
The wind was here against the sound ; but this , though it contributed to the effect , could not account for it , nor could the Prof. J. Tyndall on the [ Jan. 15 , proximity of the shadow account for it .
To these two causes must have been added an acoustically flocculent though optically transparent atmosphere .
The experiment demonstrates conclusively that there are atmospheric and local conditions which , when combined , prevent our most powerful instruments from making more than a distant approach to the performance which writers on fog-signals have demanded of them .
On November 24 the sound of the syren pointed to windward was compared at equal distances in front of and behind the instrument .
It was louder to leeward in the rear , than at equal distances to windward in front .
Hence , in a wind , the desirability of pointing the instrument to windward .
The.whistles were tested this day in comparison with the syren deprived of its trumpet .
The Canadian and the 8-inch whistles proved the most effective ; but the naked syren was as well heard as either of them .
As regards opacity , the -25th of November almost rivalled the 3rd of July .
The gun failed to be heard at a distance of 2*8 miles , and it yielded only a faint crack at 2| miles .
Meanwhile this investigation has given us a knowledge of the atmosphere in its relation to sound , of which no notion had been previously entertained .
While the velocity of sound has been the subject of refined and repeated experiments , I am not aware that since the publication of a celebrated paper by Hr .
Derham , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1708 , any systematic inquiry has been made into the causes which affect the intensity of sound in the atmosphere .
Derham 's results , though obtained at a time when the means of investigation were very defective , have apparently been accepted with unquestioning trust by all subsequent enters\#151 ; a fact which is , I think , in some part to be ascribed to the a priori probability of his conclusions .
Thus Dr. Eobinson , relying apparently upon Derham , says , " Fog is a powerful damper of sound , " and he gives us physical reason why it must be so .
" It is a mixture of air and globules of water , and at each of the innumerable surfaces where these two touch , a portion of the vibration is reflected and lost .
" And he adds further on , " The remarkable power of fogs to deaden the report of guns has been often noticed .
" Assuming it , moreover , as probable that the measure of " a fog 's power in stopping sound " bears some simple relation to its opacity for light , Dr. Eobinson , adopting a suggestion of Mr. Alexander Cunningham , states that " the distance at which a given object , say a flag or pole , disappears , may be taken as a measure of the fog 's power " to obstruct the sound .
This is quite in accordance with prevalent notions ; and granting that the sound is dissipated , as assumed , by reflection from the particles of fog , the conclusion follows that the greater the number of the reflecting particles , the greater will be the waste of sound .
But the number of particles , or , in other words , the density of the fog , is ec re is action upon light ; hence the optical opacity will be a measure o acoustic opacity , ] 871 .
] Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
67 This , I say , expresses the opinion generally entertained , " clear still air " being regarded as the best vehicle for sound .
We have not , as stated above , experimented in really dense fogs ; but the experiments actually made entirely destroy the notion that clear weather is necessarily better for the transmission of sound than thick weather .
Some of our days of densest acoustic opacity have been marvellously clear optically , while some of our days of thick haze have shown themselves highly favourable to the transmission of sound .
Were the physical cause of the sound-waste that above assigned , did that waste arise in any material degree from reflection at the limiting surfaces of the particles of haze , this result would be inexplicable .
Again , Derham , as quoted by Sir John Herschel , says that " falling rain tends powerfully to obstruct sound .
" We have had repeated reversals of this conclusion .
Some of our observations have been made on days when rain and hail descended with a perfectly tropical fury ; and in no single case did the rain deaden the sound ; in every case , indeed , it had precisely the opposite effect .
But falling snow , according to Derham , offers a more serious obstacle than any other meteorological agent to the transmission of sound .
We have not extended our observations at the South Foreland into snowy weather ; but an observation of my own made on December 29th , in the Alps , during a heavy snow-storm , distinctly negatnres the statement of Derham .
Reverting to the case of fog , I am unable in modern observations to discover any thing conclusive as to its alleged power of deadening sound .
I had the pleasure of listening to a very interesting lecture on fog-signals delivered by Mr. Beazeley before the United-Service Institution ; and I have carefully perused the printed report of that lecture , and of a paper previously communicated by Mr. Beazeley to the Institution of Civil Engineers .
But in neither of these painstaking compilations can I find any adequate evidence of the alleged power of fogs to deaden sound .
Indeed during the discussion which followed the reading of Mr. Beaze-ley 's paper , an important observation in an opposite sense was mentioned by Mr. Douglass , to whose ability and accuracy as an observer I am able to bear the strongest testimony .
Mr. Douglass stated that he had found in his experience but little difference in the travelling of sound in foggy or in clear weather .
He had distinctly heard in a fog , at the Smalls rock in the Bristol Channel , guns fired at Milford Haven , 25 miles away .
Mr. Beazeley , moreover , has heard the Lundy-Island gun " at Hartland Point , a distance of 10 miles , during dense fog .
Mr. Beazeley s conclusion , indeed , accurately expresses the state of our knowledge when he wrote .
In winding up his paper , he admitted " that the subject appeared to be very little known , and that the more it was looked into the more apparent became the fact that the evidence as to the effect of fog upon sound is extremely conflicting .
" When , therefore , it is alleged , as it is vol. xxn .
G 68 Messrs. T. L. Brunton J. Fairer on the [ Jan. 22 , so often alleged , that the power of fogs to deaden sound is well known , the disjunctive not is to be inserted before the predicate .
The real enemy to the transmission of sound through the atmosphere has , I think , been clearly revealed by the foregoing inquiry .
That enemy has ' been proved to be not rain , nor hail , nor haze , nor fog , nor snow \#151 ; not water in fact in either a liquid or a solid form , but water in a vaporous form , mingled with air so as to render it acoustically turbid and flocculent .
This acoustic turbidity often occurs on days of surprising optical transparency .
Any system of measures , therefore , founded on the assumption that the optic and acoustic transparency of the atmosphere go hand in hand must prove delusive .
^ jl There is but one solution of this difficulty : it is to make the source of sound so powerful as to be able to endure loss by partial reflection , and still retain a sufficient residue for transmission .
Of all the instruments hitherto examined by us the siren comes nearest to the fulfilment of this condition ; and its establishment upon our coasts will , in my opinion , prove an incalculable boon to the mariner .
An account of the observations made during the recent fog will be included in the paper shortly to be presented to the Society .
These observations add the force of demonstration to others recorded in the paper , that fogs possess no such power of stifling sound as that hitherto ascribed to them .
Indeed the melting away of fog on December 13th was accompanied by an acoustic darkening of the atmosphere , so great that , at a point midway between the eastern end of the Serpentine , where a whistle was sounded , and the bridge , the sound posjj sessed less than one fourth of the intensity which it possessed on the day of densest fog .
Thus , I think , has been removed the last of a congeries of errors which for more than a century and a half have been associated with the tranoa mission of sound by the atmosphere .
January 22,1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; I. " On the Nature and Physiological Action of the Poison of Naja tripudians and other Indian Venomous Snakes . .
Part II .
By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , Sc. D. , M.R.C.P. , and J. Fairer , C.S.I. , M.D. , F.R.C.P. Lond. , F.R.S.E. , Surgeon-Major Bengal Army .
Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received November 8 , 1873 .
The effects of the poison of Naja tripudians are probably the same as those of Ophiophagus slaps , Hangar us , Hvdrophid\#174 ; , and other poisonoui

