532 On the Lack of Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
By J. C. Willis , M.A. , Sc. D. , etc. , Director of the Botanic Gardens , Bio de Janeiro .
( Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.B.S. Received February 24 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1914 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE Conditions of Life ... ... ... ... ... ... 534 Morphological Structure ... ... ... ... .
536 Geographical Distribution ... ... ... . .
544 Absence of Adaptation ... ... ... ... ... .
546 Process of Evolution ... ... ... ... ... . .
548 With the exception of some of the parasitic orders , such as the Bala-nophoracece , there are probably no families of flowering plants\#151 ; one might almost include flowerless\#151 ; which are so completely transformed from the average or mesophytic type of the phanerogams into types which are so completely unique and peculiar , as the Tristichacete and still more the Podostemacese .
Nor are there any in which , with such very great uniformity in the conditions of life , there is such remarkable variety in the morphological structure .
The structure of the orders , or rather of their members , being unique , and the conditions under which they live being also unique , it has been taken for granted that the former is in a high degree adapted to the latter , the flat thallus-like expansions of stem or root being looked upon as admirably suited to the rushing water in which they live .
So long as we were almost completely ignorant of the actual living plants , and content with dead material collected mainly in the dry seasons , this was all very well , but now that for 17 years I have devoted much attention to these plants , * have studied them in the living condition in their natural habitats in India , Ceylon , and Brazil , have followed them from germination right through their life-history , and in other ways become absolutely familiar with them , and as a result of all this have arrived at diametrically opposite conclusions , it will repay us to examine into the question in some detail .
Evolution is usually supposed to have produced the extraordinary variety of forms now existing by adapting members of very different families to very * Willis , " A Revision of the Podostemacese of India and Ceylon , " 'Ann .
Perad .
, ' vol. 1 , p. 181 ( 1902 ) ; " Studies in the Morphology and Ecology of the Podostemacese of Ceylon and India , " loc. cit. , p. 267 .
Lack of Adaptation in the Tristichaceand Podostemacece .
533 different conditions of life .
The climate , the soil , the competition with other living beings , many conditions , vary in the most complicated way , and it is very difficult , if not impossible , to disentangle the effect of the different factors that may have a hand in producing the result .
But in the case of these two closely allied families we are able to study the problem of evolution with many of the complication of factors removed or simplified .
There is no competition with other families , for these two have their habitats to themselves .
There is no difference in soils , for all grow on naked waterworn rock .
There is no difference in climate , for all grow in water in the tropical or sub-tropical zone , and are represented only by seeds in the colder weather .
There is no difference in circumambient medium , for all grow in running water .
The illumination is the same for all .
The conditions of their life are the most absolutely uniform that it is possible to conceive ; even in a laboratory it would be very difficult to produce conditions more uniform , and they must have been the same since the original founders of the orders first took to life in running water .
We cannot for one moment suppose that these plants took to the water at different stages of evolution into a family upon land ; they must obviously have gone through the whole of their evolution in water from an extremely early stage , during which the ancestors probably retained a certain power of surviving upon land .
Now the most essential point of this argument is that here we have two entire families , containing about 30 genera and over 100 species of the most varied morphological structure possible , entirely evolved under perfectly uniform conditions which cannot have varied , except for all alike , * since the evolution of the families began .
The evolution consequently cannot have been in any sort of response to a necessity of adaptation to different conditions , fos there are and have been no different conditions to which to be adapted , since the first members of these families began to live in running water .
We shall see , first of all , that the conditions of life are absolutely uniform 12 ) that the families contain the most astonishing variety of morphological structure , ( 3 ) that all the different stages , so to speak , in the attainment of the most bizarre of these forms , live together , and that the least bizarre are the most widespread and common , and in consequence ( 4 ) that as there are no changed conditions to which to be adapted , there can be no adaptation to conditions other than to the general conditions which are common to all , and have been common to them since the families began , and ( 5 ) that therefore there can , in all probability , be no selection of infinitesimal variations , but progress must have been by something of the nature of mutations or fixed * As , for instance , if the climate became warmer .
Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the Lack of changes without natural selection .
Lastly we shall consider in brief the factors which seem to have had an influence in the evolution of these remarkable families .
The orders Tristichacese and Podostemacese ( for I have shown in a recent paper* that the old family of Podostemacese must be split into these two , unless some intermediates can be found in Africa ) , as is well known , consist only of annual plants which live upon the surface of smooth water-worn rocks in rapidly moving water , and are confined , with the exception of one species found in Ohio , to the warmer regions of the globe .
During the wetter season of the year they carry out their vegetative life , and form their flowers as the dry weather approaches .
The flowers open above the water level as the rivers sink , and the seeds are shed upon the rocks , where those few that manage to retain their position germinate with the beginning of the wetter season .
Conditions of Life.\#151 ; It has long been an axiom that the conditions of life of the plants of still water are extraordinarily uniform , and that to this is due the small number of these plants , and the small amount of evolution through which they appear to have gone and to be going , together with their enormously wide distribution .
But it will soon be seen that the conditions of life for the Podostemacese and Tristichacese are if anything even more uniform , and yet in contrast to the plants of still water they show the most astounding morphological differences , and form about 30 genera with over 100 very different species ( and it is certain that very many species and probably genera have yet to be discovered ) .
The distribution of these species is more and more localised the more specialised they are in structure , while the widely distributed genera are those which are the most like the original ancestors from which the Podostemacese and Tristichacese are descended .
The conditions of life of these plants are , and must always have been , as uniform as , Or more uniform than , those of other water plants .
In the first place , as to substratum , they grow as a rule only upon rocks , but , as they will also grow upon anything which may have become wedged between the rocks so as to be immovable , the actual chemical or physical composition of the substratum cannot be of importance ; in all probability the plants take nothing from it unless , perhaps , silica .
They grow upon this rock bottom by means of creeping roots , which give off secondary shoots .
They are thus absolutely compelled from the start to a plagiotropic mode of life .
In the second place , as to temperature conditions : the orders are , with the exception of Podostemon ceratophyllurn , found in Ohio , * Willis , " A New Natural Order of Flowering Plants\#151 ; Tristichacese , " 'Linn .
Soc. Journ. , Bot. ' ( in the press ) .
Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
535 confined to the tropics and sub-tropics , and the coldest water in which I have ever seen any was 57 ' F. ( 14 ' C. ) , in the Khasia Hills of Assam , the warmest 81 ' F. ( 27 ' C. ) .
Their temperature conditions are thus more uniform than those of other water plants .
Their conditions of light supply are also uniform .
They live only from the water-level down to perhaps 50-75 cm .
The medium in which they live , the running water of tropical rivers , is very uniform , and their food supply also , as it comes from the passing water .
The only differences between them in the numerous localities in which they occur are therefore in the speed of the water current .
The fastest water in which I have found any was in the Rio Piabanha , north of Petropolis , near to Rio de Janeiro , where arculifera was growing in water going from to 4 miles an hour , and the slowest was at Hakinda , near Peradeniya , in Ceylon , where Farmeria metzgerioides and Podostemon subulatuswrere growing in an eddy that moved perhaps half a mile in the hour .
But , if this involved any difference in structure , there would surely be more " Zugfestigkeit " in the thalli of the more rapid water , and an examination of the various sections given in my monograph of the Indian forms will show that this is not so\#151 ; some have it , some not .
It is true that at any one actual spot , of , say , a square yard , on a rock , there are most commonly only one or two species to be found growing , but this does not mean that no others could grow there , but simply that each one has some slight preference in positions .
Always there is more or less of intermixture .
For instance , from my Indian monograph I may quote the various species , with those which were recorded as found together with them:\#151 ; Tristicha ramosissima : Grijfithella Ho Lawia zeylanica : Hydrobryum olivaceum , lichenoides , Farmeria metzgerioides , Podostemon subulatus , Dicrcea stylosa , Gr Hookeriana .
Podostemon subulatus : Dicrcea elongata , stylosa , Farmeria metzgerioides , Lawia zeylanicn , Hydrobryum olivaceum .
Podostemon Barberi : Grijfthella Hookeriana .
Dicrcea elongata : Podostemon subulatus , Dicrcea stylosa , Hydrobryum olivaceum .
Dicrcea dichotoma : Hydrobryum olivaceum .
Dicrcea Wallichii : Hydrobryum lichenoides .
Dicrcea stylosa : D. elongata , Podostemon subulatus , Hydrobryum olivaceum , lichenoides , Lawia zeylanica , Grijfithella Hookeriana .
Grijfithella Hookeriana : Lawia zeylanica , Podostemon Barberi , Dicrcea stylosa , Tristicha ramosissima .
Willisia selaginoides : Hydrobryum lichenoides .
Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the Lack of Hydrobryumlichenoides :H .
olivaceum , selaginoides , Lawia zeylanica , Dicrcea Wallichii .
H. sessile : ?
H. olivaceum :Lawia zeylanicai , Farmetzgerioides , stylosa elongata , dichotoma , Hydrobryum lichenoides .
H Griffithii : ?
Farmeria metzgerioides :Lawia zeylanica , Hydrobryum olivaceum , Podo-stemon subulatus , etc. Farmeria.indica : ?
When we remember that often a certain species does not grow in the same district as another species , and that these are only a few observations , it is pretty evident that almost any species could live with almost any other , or in almost any place .
In Brazil I have found the most incongruous-looking species , such as Tristicha hypnoid.es and Apinagia Biedelii , or Mniopsis Weddelliana and Mourera growing side by side , intermixed , in two or three localities .
Further , in the State of Bio , their habitat is nearly always shared to some extent with a moss , which appears to be able to survive on the dry rock if exposed to the air by the fall of the water .
As regards other conditions of life , it may be pointed out that these plants escape to a large extent from competition with other plarfts , for , except for an occasional moss or fern , nothing else is ever found on the rocks with them , and , owing to the enormous destruction of seed before germination , there is little competition among themselves .
They are to some considerable extent attacked by such animals as can get at them , for they are very rich in starch towards the end of the season .
Their conditions of life , then , are in the very highest degree uniform , but in no sense can this be said of their morphological construction , which is the most various and complex that one can conceive .
By no stretch of imagination can the variety in the conditions of life be made to fit one quarter of the variety of structure .
While the conditions of life and the variations in those conditions are the same in Brazil , India , and Africa , and certain almost identical species occur in all these places , the general trend of the morphological construction in India is towards flattened primary roots , in Brazil towards flattened secondary shoots , and in Africa , so far as our at present extremely limited knowledge goes , sometimes , at any rate , towards flattened roots combined with tall stems .
Morphological Structure.\#151 ; Before going further , as these plants are not very familiar to most botanists , it will be well to sum up in brief some of their morphological peculiarities .
Taking first the family Tristichaceae ( Tristicha , Lawia , and Weddellina ) , be it noted first of all that the members of this Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece , 537 family , though only , many of them , slightly modified from " common " types , occupy the same positions as the highly modified members of the PodostemaceaB proper , whether in swiftly moving or in slowly moving water .
Now if such simple forms as these suffice to occupy the positions , there can be no adapta-tional need for the complex forms of the Podostemacese proper .
But to return to the structure : the most " primitive " - looking species is undoubtedly Tristicha ramosissima Willis , which grows in South-West India .
The primary axis of this plant is not known , but as the creeping roots are just like those of other forms , it may be taken for granted that it gives rise to creeping closely attached roots , running over the rocks in all directions .
Upon these are borne endogenous " secondary " shoots , which in this plant grow out in a fairly normal way to a length of a foot or so .
They are not dorsiventral , and bear the flowers , which also are not dorsiventral , but have the formula P3 , A3 , G(3 ) , and are perfectly regular .
A feature of the plant is the numerous " ramuli " or shoots of limited growth , which here are in no sense dorsi-ventrally arranged or constructed .
Now in this plant the only adaptations , if adaptations they can be called , to the mode of life , are ( 1 ) the great and regular development of secondary shoots on creeping roots , and ( 2 ) of haptera or organs for clinging to the rock , and ( 3 ) the absence of intercellular spaces .
But I have no hesitation in affirming that this plant could live quite comfortably in any of the localities occupied by the members of the two families , with the exception of those in which during the growing season the water was liable to be less than an inch or an inch and a half in depth .
Life in shallower water is quite easy for another species of Tristicha\#151 ; But in this one begins to see increasing dorsiventrality in the plant .
Once placed upon a rock , in which downward growth is impossible , and dorsiventral or plagiotropic direction of growth ensured by the creeping roots , the impetus to dorsiventrality appears to be given , and the whole further evolution of both families seems to be chiefly in the direction of increasing dorsiventrality , both in the vegetative and the floral organs .
In T. hypnoides the main secondary shoot begins to show some dorsiventrality and the ramuli have become very distinctly tristichous , with one upper and two more lateral rows of leaves .
The flower is also dorsiventral in having lost the upper and one lower stamen .
In a new species of Tristicha which has lately been discovered near to Rio by Snr .
F. Tamandare de Toledo , the ramuli are not only tristichous , but lie down flat upon the rock , and have the upper row of leaves smaller than the laterals , while the secondary shoots have become flat expanded " stem-thalli .
" Leaves are borne on the upper surface of the flat expansion ( which lies flat upon , and is attached to , the rock ) , and ramuli as well as flowers on the margins .
The flowers have Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the Lack of only the two lower stamens .
Now this species can live quite happily in 5-8 mm. of water , and again I may repeat that these three Tristichas could perfectly well occupy all the localities of the Tristichacese and Poaostemacese , the conditions being identical throughout .
In actual fact they , with the other species of the genus\#151 ; T. alternifolia\#151 ; do occur in a very great proportion of the places in which plants of these families have been found , throughout the distribution zone of the genus Tristicha , which is almost coterminous with that of the orders .
Weddellina , a genus confined to the north of South America , has a structure very similar to* that of T. and a symmetrical fiower .
Lawia , the remaining genus of this family , departs , so to speak , upon a side line which was indicated by the secondary shoots of Tristicha sp. but here it is the primary axis which flattens out into a broad prostrate thallus , which does not bear ramuli like the rest of the order and has symmetrical flowers like T. ramosissima .
The genus is confined to the region from Ceylon to Bombay , and has only one species , L. which occurs in many forms , differing slightly , so far as can be observed , in every locality .
Before going on to deal with the Podostemacese proper , it may be well to repeat that the Tristichacese can , and do , live quite happily in every locality occupied by the other family , and that the genus Tristicha , the typical genus ?
of the family , and the least modified ( in one at least of its species ) , is the most widely spread of all the genera of both families .
The whole family Podostemacese , with its remarkable morphological constructions , is therefore adaptationally unnecessary .
All its extraordinary features are de luxe , and cannot have arisen in response to any need for adaptation to different conditions , for there are no different conditions to which to be adapted , and none of the highly modified forms is so successful , or so common , as T. hypnoides , which has only a very slight modification from the original type from which the family is descended .
We cannot suppose that all these changes had to go on just to fit the family to live in running water , or the first members of it would never have been able to survive , and the Podostemons , etc. , which are only slightly modified , would not be the most widespread and common of all to-day .
To pass on now to the Podostemacese proper ( tribe Achlamydatse of the older writers ) , we may run very briefly over the striking morphological differences to be found in the family .
They are mainly of two kinds\#151 ; flattening of the secondary shoots and flattening of the primary roots .
The least modified types in many respects are the South American forms Ligea ( CEnone ) , Marathrum , and Mourera .
All show , however , rather more dorsi- Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
539 ventrality than do half of the Tristichacese .
They have creeping roots which give rise to secondary dorsiventral shoots with large leaves developed in two ranks .
The flowers are radially symmetrical , but are liable at times to become slightly dorsiventral by the abortion of some of the stamens .
The inflorescence in Mourera is flat .
A further stage in this direction is shown in the South American Lophogynes and Apinagias , where the secondary shoots , while smaller in size , have become more or less flattened out and thalloid by the union of the bases of the leaves or the flattening of the stem .
The flowers are usually markedly dorsiventral by the disappearance of the upper stamens .
An extreme case of this construction is afforded by Castelnavia , where the ( secondary ) thalloid shoots lie flat upon the rock , like the ( primary ) shoots of Lawia in the other order .
Another section of the family is represented by the Podostemons , occurring in Asia and America , and probably in Africa also , where the root is more or less cylindrical and creeping , and gives rise to secondary shoots which are only slightly dorsiventral , chiefly in their branching , and which bear highly dorsiventral flowers .
Allied to this genus , as well as perhaps to Lophogyne , etc. , is Mniopsis , which is confined to South America , has a thallus like Lophogyne , and a flower like Podostemon .
Sphcerothylax abyssinica Warming ( Abyssinia ) has what is apparently a primary axis that grows up to a considerable height , bearing compound leaves and flowers , while at the same time the root at the base forms a flat thallus , something like a lichen or a liverwort , bearing secondary shoots which remain very short , and ultimately become floriferous also .
The flowers are highly dorsiventral .
In H. olivaceum and other species of Hydrobryum ( India and Ceylon ) the primary axis is much reduced , only seldom bearing flowers , but the flat lichen-like thallus or root is large , and gives rise to great numbers of secondary shoots , which ultimately become floriferous , with very markedly dorsiventral flowers .
In Dicrsea and Griffithella the root flattens out , sometimes in long threader ribbon-like forms , sometimes in more condensed shape , sometimes even forming a goblet-like organ .
On the edges are borne the secondary shoots , which are very short , lengthening slightly at the end of the season , when they bear each a dorsiventral flower .
In Parmeria ( India , Ceylon ) the roots are creeping and flattened , as in Hydrobryum , but the flower carries the dor si ventrality to the last stage , showing it in the interior of the ovary , and in the embryo .
In one species , F. metzgerioides Willis , the fruit contains only two seeds , and does not dehisce , the seeds germinating in situ on the rock .
This is the only species Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the of in either family which has a proper arrangement for preventing its seeds from washing away .
In none of the species with flattened highly dorsiventral root does the stem or shoot of the secondary shoots show any sign of flattening out , while in none of those with flattened secondary shoot does the root show sign of flattening .
The former are mainly characteristic of India and Ceylon , the latter of South America .
For the great variety in detail which all these plants exhibit reference must be made to the work of Warming* and to my previous work ( .
cit. ) published upon the Indian and Ceylon forms .
Tulasne 's monographf also contains a fine set of pictures of the families .
We may now proceed to deal in more detail with the various structural features of these families , which have generally been looked upon as adaptations .
In the first place , let us take the flattened thallus-like roots or secondary shoots .
These have been generally regarded as adaptations to withstand , or to avoid , the rush of the water .
But , as already pointed out , the forms that are exposed to it have no marked " Zugfestigkeit .
" In my monograph of the Indian forms I expressed the opinion that the adaptation was rather to shallow water than to rushing water .
The most highly adapted form , on either view , is H. and yet this very form , at the period when the rush of the water is most violent , possesses a tall primary axis with a great bunch of leaves at the end , an axis , moreover , which can hold fast if the flat creeping thallus be removed .
Until I came to Brazil I was still in some doubt as to whether these dwarf forms and closely attached thalli might not be regarded as in some degree at any rate adaptations to rushing water , but what I have seen here has completely destroyed that idea , and enabled me to write this paper .
Here there are no flat creeping root thalli , but instead there are , as in M. Weddelliana , flattened secondary shoots , forming thalloid outgrowths .
Now these thalli , though with far less holdfast than the Indian root thalli , live in more rapid water .
Never or very rarely , though for many years I have been familiar with the habitats of the eastern forms , have I seen any in such rapid or violent water as the forms which grow in the State of Bio de Janeiro .
I have even found Lophogyne arculifera with the water falling on to it from a measurable height .
Even the large Brazilian species of Mourera , Apinagia , and Marathrum live in very swift water without any difficulty , as may be very strikingly seen in Plate 62 of v. Wettstein 's ' Yegetationsbilder aus * Warming , " Familien Podostemacese , J-VI , " ' Kgl .
Dansk .
Yidensk .
Selsk .
Skr .
, ' 6 raekke , ii , 1881 ; ii , 1882 ; iv , 1888 ; vii , 1891 ; ix , 1899 ; xi , 1901 .
t Tulasne , 'MonographiaPodostemacearum , " ' Arch , du Mus. d'Hist .
Not .
, 'vol .
6(1852 ) .
Adaptation in the Tristichacea and Podostemacea .
541 Siidbrasilien .
' The conditions of life are so absolutely uniform that any species can live in practically any place affected by these orders , though at any one locality they will more or less group themselves each in the kind of place that best suits it .
It therefore appears to me in the highest degree improbable that either primary root or secondary shoot thallus can be looked upon as an adaptation to violent water , especially when we consider that one form is mainly Asiatic , the other mainly American , while , further , they both share their habitats with the very slightly modified Tristichas , and with the also slightly modified Podostemons .
As I have before stated , the adaptation , if adaptation there be , is to shallow , not rushing , water , but even upon that it is as well not to lay too much stress , because T. and some species of Podostemon , neither of them with any thalloid flattening , are as well suited to , and grow in , the same shallow water as any of the thalloid forms .
The only thing that it is safe to say , after 40 years during which opinion has at first gone headlong in favour of adaptation and afterwards against it , is that the small forms can live in any depth of water in which the conditions of illumination will allow their life to go on , while the very large forms are only to be found in the larger rivers .
If all the extraordinary morphological differences between these plants were to be regarded as adaptational to the extremely small or non-existent differences in their conditions of life , the adaptation in land families living under more variable conditions would have to be something positively astounding .
Or again if these differences are adaptational , why do we get one kind in one country , another in another , though there are similar species of the same genus living in both ?
Or why in one genus ( Hydrobryum ) do we get " root " thallus , in another ( Lawia ) , living in the same place in the same river , " shoot " thallus ?
To pass on now to the flower .
In the Tristichaceaj , which are the less modified forms , it is simple and usually regular , some species of Tristicha itself having only one or two stamens on the lower side .
In the Podostemaceee it is sometimes regular , but more often dorsiventral , frequently to a very high degree .
Now dorsiventrality has often been supposed to be an adaptation to insect visits ; it is usually supposed only to be found in lateral flowers and in flowers which stand horizontally when open .
But in the Podostemaceae it is at its highest degree , and that the most extreme known in the higher plants , in flowers which are anemophilous , terminal , and erect .
In my monograph of the Indian forms I have gone fully into this question , and may refer to that work for details .
The conclusion there reached was that " the dorsiventrality of the flowers , which is VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. 2 T Dr. J. 0 .
Willis .
On the Lack of the most important morphological character in the classification of the order , is a direct result of , or in direct correlation with , that of the vegetative organs , being greater the greater the dorsiventrality of the latter .
" And again " it seems then not unreasonable to conclude that the dorsiventrality of the floral organs has been , so to speak , forced upon them by that of the vegetative organs or by their position upon the latter without any reference to advantages or disadvantages to be derived from it in the performance of the functions of the floral organs themselves .
The only demand made upon them , so to speak , has been that they should not cease to set seed .
" A comparison of the characters used for separating the genera of Podostemacese proper , e.g. by Warming in Engler and Prantl 's ' Naturliehen Pflanzenfamilien , ' shows at once that practically all these characters , e.g. , suppression of the stamens of the upper side of the flower , obliquity of the gynoeceum , mode of opening of the spathe , etc. , are simply expressions of , and involved in , the degree of dorsiventrality of the flower .
As I regard this , as above reiterated , as being due to a large extent , at any rate , to the vegetative dorsiventrality , I have consequently employed vegetative characters in addition to the floral in determining the Indian genera , and in the work which I am carrying out upon the South American forms I propose to do the same .
By no stretch of imagination can the dorsiventrality of the flowers be regarded as adaptational , and I have elsewhere shown good reason to suppose that in general it follows that of the vegetative organs .
But in this paper we have seen reason to believe that that of the vegetative organs also is not adaptational .
No gain whatever comes to these plants , in other words , from all their wonderful morphological changes , and the whole differentiation of the two orders into nearly 30 genera with numerous species is almost entirely an expression of the dorsiventrality forced upon them by their plagiotropic growth .
The least dorsiventral and least modified species of the least modified genus of the Tristichacese can and do live in nearly all the places occupied by the two families , and the whole differentiation of the families is merely de luxe , and without any adaptational signification whatever .
Finally , let us consider the seed .
In most of the plants of these orders there are very numerous ( 200-600 ) minute seeds , whose outer coat becomes mucilaginous when wetted , but in some the number is much reduced , especially in Farmeria , where in one species there is a dehiscent fruit with about four seeds , in the other , F. metzgerioides Willis , an indehiscent fruit with only two , which germinate in situ .
Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
543 Now if these plants were really adapted to their habitat , one of the first things one would expect to find in them would be some arrangement to enable the seeds to cling to the rocks upon which they find themselves shed .
But there is only one species in which this is the case , F. mentioned above .
All the rest have capsules which open in dry air and shed the seeds upon the rocks .
When a shower of rain comes the mucilaginous layer of the seed swells , and as it dries it attaches the seed firmly to the rock .
This has been looked upon as an adaptation for clinging to the rock by many people who have forgotten that when again wetted , as for instance by the rise of the water in the rainy season , the mucilage again softens and the seed washes away .
The seeds once afloat have but a small chance of arriving at suitable growing places , for if dropped in quiet water they will not grow , and if carried to rocky places it is very unlikely that they will catch in anything to form a place for germination .
Seedlings I found in Ceylon to be extremely rare , excepting only in F. metzgerioides .
Only when a seed gets caught in a crack in a rock , or in a hole in the old thallus , does it get any chance to grow .
As soon as it germinates it produces root hairs to fasten it to the substratum , but even these are often not produced quickly enough , and I have found , in trying to germinate seeds in the Botanic Gardens in Bio de Janeiro , that even when the cotyledons are open , and a number of root hairs attached to the rock , they may yet be washed away .
My experience as yet with germination trials leads me to suppose that it takes at least from 500 to 1000 or more seeds to give three or four seedlings , and of these , perhaps , one may come to maturity .
This being the case it is impossible to say that the order\#151 ; except in the one species F. metzgerioides\#151 ; shows any adaptation in this , one of the most essential things , one would think , in which it might , with its wealth of variety in structure , be adapted .
Even in F. metzgerioides it is by no means certain that the indehiscent fruit is an adaptation .
This form is the most highly dorsiventral of the whole family , and the peculiar feature of the indehiscent fruit may be merely another expression of the increasing dorsi-ventrality which runs throughout the Podostemacese .
After a consideration of all the features of these orders , then , we come to the conclusion that any and all of the adaptations that there may be in them are to be found in T. ramosissima , the least modified of all .
As we pointed out at the commencement of the paper , in this species ( and the same features appear throughout the two families ) these features are\#151 ; ( 1 ) a great and regular development of secondary shoots upon creeping , closely attached roots ; ( 2 ) the development of liaptera or clinging organs to attach the plants to the rock ; and ( 3 ) the absence of intercellular spaces .
Beyond these there Dr. J. C. Willis .
the Lack of are practically no characters in the orders that can possibly be regarded as adaptational , and most certainly not the characters\#151 ; of thallus formations , dorsiventrality of flower , etc.\#151 ; which really characterise the orders , and enable them to be separated in the natural system .
But are even these characters which we have enumerated really adaptations ?
The development of secondary shoots upon roots is by no means uncommon , though not usually carried to such a pitch of regularity and perfection as here .
The absence of large intercellular spaces may be directly ancestral ; if the orders came , as is quite possible , directly from plants growing upon the banks of the water , their members may never have had large intercellular spaces at all , these being quite useless in their mode of life .
Haptera , perhaps , are really adaptations , as they are all but unique , and appear to be modified root branches , but they form the only feature in the two orders that one can point to that is at all probably an adaptation .
Geographical Distribution.\#151 ; Another argument in favour of our main contention may be derived from the geographical distribution of the Tristichacese and Podostemacese .
The genera which are widely distributed are Tristicha* in the one family and Podostemonf in the other , both of them genera which are comparatively little modified from the earlier types of the orders .
Of the other genera the distribution is , roughly , the following :\#151 ; Lawia ... ... ... ... ... W. India and Ceylon .
Weddellina ... ... ... . .
Guiana and H. Brazil .
CEnone ... ... ... ... ... ... Guiana and N. Brazil .
Marathrum ... ... ... ... ... Mexico to Brazil .
Bhyncholacis ... ... ... Guiana .
Apinagia ... ... ... ... ... .
Guiana and Brazil .
Lophogyne ... ... ... ... Province of Rio de Janeiro .
Mourera ... ... ... ... . .
Guiana , Brazil .
Lonchostephus ... ... . .
River Amazon .
Lacis ... ... ... ... ... .
River Amazon .
Dicrsea ... ... ... ... ... Madagascar , India , Ceylon .
Hydrobryum ... ... ... . .
India , Ceylon .
Ceratolacis ... ... ... .
Brazil .
Mniopsis ... ... ... ... . .
Brazil .
Oserya ... ... ... ... ... .
Brazil to Mexico .
Castelnavia ... ... ... . .
Brazil .
* Mexico , S. America , Africa , Madagascar , India .
+ Ohio to Argentina , Ceylon , India , probably Africa .
Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
Cladopus ... ... ... ... ... Java .
Willisia ... ... ... ... . .
W. India , Burma .
Griffithella ... ... ... .
W. India .
Farmeria ... ... ... ... ... S. India , Ceylon .
The African species are as yet too little known to make it possible to give their distribution ; the genera to which they really belong have yet to be made out in many cases , but are almost certainly all , or nearly all , different from the American and Indian .
In other words , the only widespread genera are the non-specialised ones , while the more specialised the genus , on the whole , the less is its area of distribution .
The non-specialised forms live everywhere with the specialised , and are every whit as well suited to the positions , which show no differences in general conditions of life .
This result may well be compared with that which I traced for the Dilleniaceae* in a previous paper , being exactly parallel with that .
Or , again , take the well-known fact that in the Podostemaceee the species are usually very local in distribution , as has frequently been pointed out.f The best known instance is Castelnavia , where in the same river , the Araguaya , some of the species differ at every cataract .
Now , in the case of different species of a genus on land , it has been customary to say that they have been evolved to suit different mixtures of the conditions of life , and the absence of many species of one genus in most plants of 'still water has been put down to their uniformity of conditions .
But here this explanation will not hold .
The physical conditions of life at all cataracts in the Araguaya are the same , and there is no mixture with other forms of life at all .
And this must have been true since the foundation of the family .
And yet the Araguaya contains seven species of this one genus , a genus , moreover , which is almost confined to this river , in which there occur besides only one or two species of Oserya and Apinagia .
It is another expression of the fact to which attention has often been called , J that isolation , as isolation , favours the production of new species .
Why this should be so , we cannot at present say , but the fact remains .
These species of the Araguaya are , of course , each endemic to its own few waterfalls , and to them may be applied * Willis , " The Geographical Distribution of the Dilleniacege as illustrating the Treatment of this Subject on the Theory of Mutation , " ' Ann. Perad .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 69 ( 1907 ) .
t Weddell , " Sir les Podostemac6es en general et leur Distribution Geographique en particular , " ' Bull .
Soc. Bot. France , ' vol. 19 , p. 50 ( 1873 ) ; Goebel , ' Pflanzenbiologischen Schilderungen , ' vol. 2 , pp. 331 , 374 ; Willis , " Studies in the Morphology and Ecology of the Podostemacese of Ceylon and India , " 'Ann .
Perad .
, ' vol. 1 , p. 450 ( 1902 ) .
X Willis , " The Floras of Hilltops in Ceylon , " 'Ann .
Perad .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 135 ( 1908 ) .
Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the Lack of the remark which I have already made* about the endemic species of Ceylon , that ( p. 13 ) " in general they have characters which are , so far as one can conceive , useless in the struggle for existence ; they occur in places where that struggle cannot have been very keen , or between very large numbers ; they often occur alongside of their most nearly allied species , and very often the differences in character are such as can hardly conceivably have arisen by the selection of infinitesimal variations .
" The whole argument of that paper should be read in connection with this , as it produces evidence to the same end from a study of quite a different nature from that here dealt with .
Absence of Adaptation.\#151 ; By a consideration of all the facts which have been brought forward , we are thus forced to the conclusion that as there are not , and have never been , any changed conditions to which these families have or had to be adapted , there cannot have been in them any adaptation to changed conditions after the first adaptation which enabled them to live on the rocks in running water .
The whole of the extraordinary morphological changes through which they have gone are without any adaptational significance whatever .
The conditions of life under which T. ramosissima exists are the same as those under which the rest of the families exist , and have always existed since the evolution of the families began .
In spite of the great variety of form and structure , it is impossible to say that any one form is better suited to the conditions of life than any other .
The most " primitive " forms , Tristicha and Podostemon , which have neither flattened shoot-thallus nor root-thallus ( except in one species of Podostemon , which perhaps should form another genus ) are the most widespread and the most common .
It may be objected , perhaps , that the modification and adaptation to the simple change of conditions involved by getting into the water is still going on , and is enough to account for all the modifications that the families have undergone .
However well A may be adapted , it is of course obvious that B may be better adapted .
But if it requires the evolution of two whole families with 30 genera and over 100 ( perhaps over 200 ) species of the most various form to meet this need , we have a very remarkable case before us , when we consider that the first founders of the families must have been adapted to life in running water , or the families could never have commenced .
If this were to be the case , we should expect enormously greater variety than actually exists among the other plants of the vegetable kingdom .
As has been pointed out , the most obvious feature in these plants where , if * Willis , " Some Evidence against the Theory of the Origin of Species by Natural Selection of Infinitesimal Variations , and in Favour of Origin by Mutation , " 'Ann .
Perad .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 1 ( 1907 ) . .
Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
547 anywhere , we should expect adaptation , viz. , the attachment of the seeds to the rocks , shows none , except in one species only , and that the most highly modified species in the whole family .
Unless the haptera be an adaptation , this is the only " adaptation " in the whole group , and if it takes all this amount of evolution to get to one adaptation , there cannot be much selection of advantageous variations .
The morphological changes in these plants are so large and striking that if there were any adaptation involved in them , there would surely be some evidence to prove it , but there is none , and in all my work on these plants I have not knowingly suppressed any evidence one way or the other , or failed to put down anything that I have observed .
Not only so , but the forms that are most like the common ancestors , and possess none of the thalloid structures of the more bizarre genera , viz. , Tristicha and Podostemon , are much the most widespread and the most common .
As with the Dilleniacese and other orders instanced in my previous papers , it is much simpler to regard these as parent genera which have split off the others by mutation in different places .
Everywhere they live together with the more complex and modified forms , and in equal abundance .
None of the latter have one quarter of their range . . .
Again , the more complex forms have flowers which are modified in a direction that can only be looked upon as disadvantageous , if anything .
I have already gone into this question in another paper , and need only refer to it here .
By no conceivable advantages could the flowers have been the subject of natural selection .
There is no adaptational need for the complex forms ; if they are better suited to the general conditions of life of the orders , there is nothing to prove it , and they are not a conspicuous success , except in places that happen to prove exactly right for them , as for instance Latvia in the shallow streams of the Bombay Ghats .
The evidence of the local endemic forms is also against this view of still-progressing adaptation .
The conditions of life , as has been pointed out , are as nearly as possible absolutely uniform , much more so than in other water plants , which have a certain amount of soil differences , competition with plants of other families , and so on , to face .
So great is the destruction of seed before germination in these families that until quite late in the season there is usually ample space upon the rocks , so that there can be but little competition between them for space .
Competition for food cannot exist in water running so rapidly .
The only " adaptation " that can be conceived of as going on in these plants under these circumstances is to the ever-present force of plagiotropism , but if this be admitted , it is also admitted that there can be definite evolution-factors , which it is one of the objects of this paper to demonstrate .
Adaptation Dr. J. C. Willis .
On the Lack of by natural selection to this force , with the enormous destruction of seed that goes on , is almost inconceivable , however .
The Process of Evolution.\#151 ; It follows from the above that , as there is no adaptational selection , or selection of characters better suited to the struggle for existence , the process of evolution in these families from the simpler to the more complex forms cannot have been by the gradual accumulation of infinitesimal variations , unless these can also be selected by the one permanent cause acting upon the families , viz. , their plagiotropism .
Many of their variations , too , are not dorsiventral , and plagiotropic life would not be likely to select them .
The more complex and modified forms are in no way whatever superior to the simpler forms ; both live together , and one shows no sign of exterminating the other .
It is all but impossible , however , to imagine that plagiotropic life could select infinitesimal variations , and as I have shown in dealing with the endemics of Ceylon that mutation is the only possible explanation of them , so here I propose that we accept the theory of mutation as the only feasible explanation at present possible of the facts with which we have to deal .
Mutations not being liable to go back , it is possible to accumulate them , unless any one of them should prove of very serious disadvantage , in which case it would be eliminated by natural selection .
Taking the evidence which is here brought forward with that which I have set forth in other papers already quoted , added to the fundamental work of de Vries , it seems to me that a good case is now fully made out for mutation , and that the onus of proof is completely thrown upon the infinitesimal variationists , while a very fair case is made out for mutation without natural selection .
Analogy of the conditions and phenomena which we have been considering in this paper with those which occur throughout the vegetable kingdom lead almost irresistibly to the conclusion that mutation without natural selection must be a theory of general applicability , although there is no reason to exclude natural selection from operation upon a smaller scale than that for which it has hitherto received credit\#151 ; chiefly , be it remarked , it operates by destroying disadvantageous variations , unless they are compensated by advantageous ones at the same time .
This subject , however , leads into great issues , which must be left for subsequent consideration .
A r6sum6 of the arguments which have led me to take up the position I hold in regard to this question is given on p. 208* of the third edition of my ' Manual and Dictionary of the Flowering Plants and Ferns , 1908 .
' The Mechanism of the Process of Evolution.\#151 ; So far the reasoning has been straightforward , and we have come to the conclusion that there must have been evolution by means of mutations , and without natural selection in the Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
549 ordinary meaning of the term .
When we come to consider what this really means , we are met by great difficulties .
There is one , and apparently only one , or at most two , permanent deflecting factors , that act now , and have always acted since the evolution of the families began , when their first ancestors took to life in running water .
These are , first and foremost , their plagiotropic method of growth , forced upon them by the fact that they live only upon an unyielding substratum ; they have not , and can never have had , primary roots going downwards into the rock , and are thus , one might almost say , cut in half , or deprived of one-half of their polarity .
The other factor is the longitudinal strain of the water , which to a large extent acts in the same general direction .
Now there is also one , and apparently only one , or at most two , permanent results visible in the evolution of the members of these families , viz. , the plagiotropic or dorsiventral habit both of the growing organs and the structure of the flower , which is by far the most striking feature in them ; added to this is the considerable elongation and division of the leaves ( or root-thalli ) in some of the forms .
Their differentiation into genera and species depends to a large extent upon these two features , which are merely expressions of increasing dorsiventrality , and increasing size and division of leaves ( or root-thalli ) .
Now , when one sees in a family where the complexity of the ordinary evolution process is so much simplified as we have seen it to be here , one principal and one subsidiary deflecting factor , and one principal and one subsidiary result , it is very difficult to avoid the conclusion that these are cause and effect .
But it must be again insisted upon , and clearly understood , that there has been no selection of advantageous variations .
All the forms , whether slightly or highly dorsiventral , can live in practically all the localities affected by the families , so that the increased dorsiventrality of the more modified forms is of no advantage to its possessors .
The least modified forms are the most common and widespread ( and this by the way appears to be the general rule in other families , as I have already pointed out ) , while the much modified ones are local .
This being so , we are almost forced to believe that a definite deflecting factor can make evolution go more or less in a definite direction , without regard to any advantages to be gained by it , though any modification that was seriously disadvantageous would be weeded out by natural selection .
But now comes a serious difficulty .
If we have to admit that evolution can take place without natural selection , and that there is no selection of advantageous variations , why do we ( so far as present evidence goes ) not get growing together all the stages in the evolution of the very 550 Lack of Adaptation in the Tristichacece and Podostemacece .
numerous species of these families ?
And why are there any gaps between the species ?
Why are they not filled up by intermediate forms , only differing from one another in very slight degree ?
( If gaps once arise between species , larger ones will inevitably , so far as one can see , arise between genera , so that we may leave the genera out of account .
) Does this mean that mutations may be larger than we usually imagine ?
Or does it mean that a mutation in one direction involves further mutation in the same direction ?
Or what does it mean ?
It would scarcely seem , perhaps , as if the actual direction of mutation could have been selected by the forces acting on these plants , unless in the progenitors there appeared several mutations in different directions involving others in the same directions , all of which were selected .
As one can almost say that no variations other than dorsiventral ones or variations in the direction of longer or more divided leaves or thalli , have been perpetuated , and as the dorsiventrality is no advantage , and as there is no natural selection except in the direction of extermination , it is very difficult to escape the conclusion that the evolution was more or less guided in a definite direction by the plagiotropism .
Perhaps this force or natural selection exterminated variations , other than slight , in other directions .
On the whole , we are inclined to think , though as yet with great diffidence , and with an open mind , that the evolution of these families was by indiscriminate mutation , or mutation in every direction , without natural selection , the mutations in the direction of dorsiventrality and perhaps in the direction of longer and more divided leaves being on the whole more easily perpetuated than others\#151 ; many of which would be killed out by natural selection\#151 ; and this on account of the permanent deflecting forces acting on these plants , and which we may perhaps call their evolution-factors .
A strongly marked evolution-factor , like plagiotropism in these families , can compel evolution to move on the whole in a definite direction , without any reference to the advantages or disadvantages to be derived from so moving .
To accept this result as general will explain without any difficulty the presence of such countless numbers of useless characters in plants , * and may help to account for the great changes in the botanical landscape which seem often to accompany the greater changes in the geological landscape\#151 ; the great change of conditions on getting into plagiotropic water life seems to have produced the great variety in the plants we have been considering , and perhaps the greater landscape changes were similarly accompanied by great changes of conditions .
* Cf .
De Vries , ' The Mutation Theory , ' vol. 1 , p. 208 ( Delbceuf ) , 1912 .

