]\gt ; " " On the Electric Effect of Rotating a Dielectric in a Magnetic Field By HAROLD A. WILSON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. TIIOMSON , F.B.S. eceived May 18 , \mdash ; Read June 2 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) It was shown by Faraday in 1831 that an electromotive force is induced in a conductor when it moves in a magnetic field so as to cut the lines of force .
The object of the experiments described in this paper was to see if a similar electromotive force is induced in a dielectric when it moves in a magnetic field .
According to Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory , as developed by H. A. Lorentz and Larmor , such an electromotive force should be induced in a dielectric , and should be equal to that in a conductor multiplied by the factor , where is the specific inductive apacity of the dielectric .
The method employed was to rotate a hollow cylinder of ebonite in a magnetic field parallel to the axis of the cylindsr .
The inside and outside surfaces of the cylinder were provided with metal coatings with which electrical contact was made by sliding brushes .
The inside coating was connected to earth , and the outside coating to one pair of the quadrants of a sensitive quadrant electrometer , the other pair of quadrants being connected to earth .
The magnetic field was then reversed , so reversing the induced electromotive force in the ebonibe .
The resulting electric displacement was measured by means of the 1904 .
] a in a Field .
49 ] electrometer ; the quantity of electricity lired to produce a given deflection of the electrometer needle being determined by means of small parallel plate guard condenser .
It is shown that if is the induced E.M.F. in the ebonite , and the potential difference indicated by the electrometer , then where is the capacity of the ebonite cylinder and the capacity of the electrometer .
If the electrometer gives a deflection due to and a deflection due to a quantity of electricity .
Consequently can be determined in terms of and If the outside radius of the ebonite cylinder is ) , and the inside radius , then according to the electromagnetic theory where is the strength of the magnetic field and the of revolutions per seoond .
The cylinder usedwas 10 cm .
long , and ) cm .
, cm. .
It was mounted in a solenoid having 95 turns per cm .
, by which a magnetic field of strength 1500 could be produced .
The cylinder was driven by a horse-power motor , and could be rnn at 200 revolutions .
per second .
The following table contains the results btained with ] various rates of revolution and magnetic fields .
492 On rotatin .
Didectric in Illagnetic Fietd .
[ May 18 , The mean result obtained for the quantity of electricity set free on the outside coating of the cylinder , on reversing the magnetic field , only diflers from the amount calculated theoretically by 1 per cent. The specific inductive capacity of the ebonite , as determined by measuring the capacity of the cylinder , was , while the value calculated from the resuIts obtained , using the formula , was .
As the resuIt of these experiments , it may be concluded that\mdash ; 1 .
A radial electric displacement is produced in a dielectric , such as ebonite , when it is rotated in a magnetic field parallel to the axis of revolution .
2 .
The direction of the displacement is the same as is produced in a conductor .
3 .
The displacement is proportional to the magnetic field , and to the rate of revolution .
4 .
The amount of the displacement agrees with that calculated on the assumption that the induced E.M.F. in the dielectric is equal to that in a conductor multiphed by resuIts obtained ars thus in complete agreement with the theories of Lorentz and Larmor , and may be regarded as a confirmation of these theories .
The experiments were done in the Cavendish Laboratory , and the cost of the special apparatus used has been defrayed by a grant from the Royal Society .

