94 Prof. R. Kennedy .
Experiments on the Restoration of Scliellack , C. ( 1907).| " Entwicklung und Fortpflanzung von Echinomera ' Arch. f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 9 , p. 297 .
----(1912 ) .
" Die Gregarinen , " in Prowazek 's 'Handb .
d. path .
Protozoen , ' Leipzig , p. 487 .
Schnitzler , H. ( 1905 ) .
" Ueber die Fortpflanzung von Clepsidrina ovata " 'Arch .
f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 6 , p. 309 .
Siedlecki , M. ( 1898 ) .
" Etude cytologique et cycle evolutif de la Coccidie de la Seiche , ' ' 'Ann .
Inst. Pasteur , ' vol. 12 , p. 799 .
Trcgouboil ' , G. ( 1914 ) .
" Sir Involution sexuelle de Stenophora juli , etc. , " ' Arch. Zool. Exp. ( Notes et Pevue ) , ' vol. 54 , p. 19 .
Experiments on the Restoration of Paralysed Muscles by Means of Nerve Anastomosis .
Part III.\#151 ; Anastomosis of the Brachial Plexus , with a Consideration of the Distribution of its Roots* By Robert Kennedy , M.A. , D.Sc .
, M.D. , St. Mungo Professor of Surgery in the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. J. G. McKendrick , F.R.S. Received February 11 , 1915 .
) ( Abstract .
) In two former communications^ experiments on anastomosis of nerves as applied to tne facial nerve in the dog and in the monkey and to the limb nerves in the dog were published .
The series of experiments presented in this paper has reference to anastomosis as applied to the roots of the brachial plexus .
In the brachial plexus , as compared with the nerves in the limb distal to the plexus , experiments of this nature require special consideration , as in the former the fibres to the same muscle or muscles usually pass in more than one loot , and consequently any conclusions from the operation of anastomosis are liable to be fallacious , unless this is taken into account .
It is necessary , therefore , to consider in these experiments on anastomosis also the question of the distribution of the roots of the plexus .
In two of the experiments only a single root , namely , the fifth or the sixth cervical , was permanently cut off from its centres and attached to a neighThe expense of this research has been defrayed by a Government Grant from the itoyal Society .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 202 , p. 93 ( 1911 ) , and vol. 205 , p. 27 ( 1914 ) .
Paralysed Muscles by Means of Nerve .
95 bouring root .
In all the other experiments two or more than two roots were dealt with .
In the case of the former the temporary loss of function of the limb was very early restored , namely , commencing in 10 and 36 days respectively , and being completed in a further period of 9 to 15 days respectively .
When two or more than two roots were divided more extensive and more abiding paralysis resulted , and the recovery commenced much later , namely , at periods ranging from 79 to 107 days , and reached its maximum in additional periods which varied from 32 to 39 days .
The contrast was , therefore , very marked between the recoveries after section of less than two roots , and those following section of two or more than two roots , and led to the conclusion that in the former the cause of recovery was different from that in the latter .
^ .
In the experiments in which two or more roots were divided , some were anastomosed to the spinal accessory and others to another root or other roots of the plexus , and comparison is made of the recoveries in these two forms of experiments .
Comparison is also made with the results obtained in the two previous communications , and a marked correspondence is found in the dates of recovery when that was clearly due to the substituted nerve .
The views of other authors as to the distribution of the roots of the plexus are discussed , and also the views with reference to the comparison between the plexus of Macacus and that of Man .
The author 's observations of 38 human plexuses in which he has operated for injury to the roots of the plexus are then considered , and conclusions as to the distribution of the roots drawn from the distribution of the paralysis , the nature of the damage to the roots discovered at the operation , the effects of the excision of the damaged parts , and the results of stimulation of the fifth , sixth , and seventh cervical nerves during the operation .
These results of stimulation are compared with the results of stimulation of the same roots made in Macacus .
The following are the general conclusions from the research:\#151 ; 1 .
The brachial plexus of Macacus and that of Man are practically identical , at least as regards the fifth , sixth , and seventh cervical nerves , the variation being of the nature of a prefixture of the plexus in Man , but not to the extent of an entire root .
2 .
In Macacus section of the fifth nerve alone paralyses no muscle and limits no movement , although it may weaken some .
3 .
In Macacus section of the sixth and part of the seventh disturbs the function of the limb to an appreciable extent , but the disturbances can be compensated for and the movements regained , although probably with 96 Restoration of Paralysed Muscles by Nerve Anastomosis .
diminished strength , without reunion of the roots and without aiding the recovery of function by anastomosis .
4 .
In Macacus section of both fifth and sixth nerves almost entirely or entirely paralyses the deltoid , but not entirely the flexors of the elbow or the supinators , but in Man section of these two roots not only completely paralyses the deltoid , but also the external rotators of the arm , the flexors of the arm to such an extent at least that they cannot produce flexion , and also the supinator brevis to such an extent that it cannot produce supination , and in some cases also paralyses the extensors in the forearm .
5 .
In Macacus , in order to paralyse completely not only the deltoid but also the flexors of the elbow and the supinator brevis , it is necessary to divide the fifth , sixth , and seventh nerves , as apparently more of the fibres to the flexors of the elbow pass in the seventh nerve than in the case of Man .
6 .
In Macacus the paralysis resulting from section of the fifth and sixth may be largely restored by anastomosis of the peripheral segments of the two roots to the seventh cervical nerve , or to the spinal accessory , and the resulting restoration of the muscles does not materially differ in date of onset , in progress , or in ultimate result in the two cases .
7 .
The time taken for restoration of function by means of anastomosis is approximately the same in the case of the brachial plexus in Macacus , and in the case of the limb nerves distal to the plexus in the Dog , and in the case of the facial nerve in the Dog and in Macacus .
Electrical Effects accompanying the Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
II .
Ionisation of the Gases produced during Fermentation .
By M. G. Potter , Sc. D. , M.A. , Professor of Botany in the University of Durham .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1915 .
) [ This paper is published in ' Proceedings/ Series A , No. 632 ( vol. 91 ) .
]

