VI .
" O On the Causes of various Phenomena of Attraction and Adhesion , as exhibited in Solid Bodies , Filums , Vesicles , Liquid Globules , and Blood-Corpuscles .
" By RICHAuRD NORRIS , Esq. , Birmingham .
Commnunicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received Aug , ust 28 , 1862 .
It has longo been observed that solid bodies floating on liquids possess the property of modifying the figure of the surface of the liquid ; thus pieces of tinfoil or greased bodies depress the liquiid around them , while many others by the exercise of an attraction for its particles elevate it , giving rise to small mounds of liquid bounded by concave lines .
It has also been observed that likes attract likes and are repelled by unlikes , i. e. bodies having like or unlike powers of altering the figure of the surface .
These phenomena are generally admitted to depend for their existence oin the combined forces concerned in capillary attraction .
The following experiments are arranged to show that these effects of attraction are not peculiar to floating bodies or to bodies partially immersed , and that the only requiremenit is that liqulid should be associated with the bodies in which the movement occurs .
Exp. 1 .
Let two balls of sealing-wax , or other material of greater specific gravity than water , be suspended by hairs in such a mann-er that they will both be partially immersed in water to an equal extent , the points of suspenisioni being , at a little distance apart , and the suspending hairs consequently parallel .
When brought within the proper range , they will attract cachl other in the same manner as the floating bodies .
In doing so they necessarily describe a small are of a circle , of which the suspending hair is the radius , and have therefore not simply moved towards each other in a horizontal line , but have been raised to a higher level .
Exp. 2 .
Let two small sheets of Mi0roscopic glass be applied to each other by their lower edges so as to form an acuLte angle like the letter V , and let them be supported in this position by pins .
OnX placing a drop of water in the angle , the plates will be drawrv tog , ether and cohere by their surfaces .
Exp. 3 .
Suspenid moveably , by means of a thread passingo , over a pulley and a snwall counterbalancing weight , a horizontal cork disk , from the under surface of which a drop of water is hanging .
On a support beneath , formed by three upright pins , place a small piece of paper or thin glass , on the surface of which there is also a drop of water .
On depressing the disk till the two drops of water touch each other , the paper or plate will be instantly drawn up to it ; or if the plate at the bottom be heavier than the disk , the latter will be drawn down .
Exp. 4 .
If a film of wetted collodion be partially stripped from a glass plate , on being loosed it immediately flies back to its original contact .
The same effect may be observed if thin paper be wetted and spread on a smooth sheet of glass , or be laid on the surface of water .
Exp. 5 .
Take two wine-glasses and dip their mouths into a strong solution of albumen ; by a little dexterity two delicate convex films will be obtained .
On applying the most elevated points of the convexities to each other , the films will be attracted and reduced to plane surfaces strongly adherent to each other .
The permanency of the films enables the experiment to be repeated several times in succession .
Exp. 6 .
When a soap-bubble is allowed to fall on an irregular surface , such as a piece of lint or flannel , it maintains its spherical shape ; but if a smooth surface , such as a sheet of glass , be brought into slight contact with it , the wall of the bubble will be immediately attracted and flattened out upon it .
In like manner , when two bubbles come into contact by their convex surfaces and cohere , the cohering surfaces become flattened ; and bubbles in a group cohere by plane surfaces .
Among other natural bodies , blood-corpuscles present certain peculiarities of arrangement when withdrawn from their proper channels ; thus when a minute drop of mammalian blood is placed upon a glass plate , the disks arrange themselves into rouleaux of well-known form .
They become attached to each other in this case by their biconcave surfaces .
They may also cohere by the edge or circumference , and give rise to a tessellated appearance .
This latter arrangement is most easily obtained by placing a minute drop of blood on the under sir .
face of a thin piece of microscopic glass so as to be viewed through it ; the blood being in a dependent position .
A third mode of union occurs when gun , gelatinie , mucilage of liniseed , or very thick solution of starch is added to blood .
The corpuscles cohere more closely and tenaciously than in either of the other conditions .
They may be said to blend with each other , inasmuch as they form homogeneous masses .
If the solution of gum or gelatine be added to the blood subsequently to the occurrence of the modes of arrangement previously described , in such a manner as not to disturb them , the already adherent corpuscles will cohere more closely , and the outlines of the corpuiscles will be rendered less apparent , till at length homogeneity of appearance results .
The same effect takes place if a drop of blood be allowed spontaneously to thicken , but rarely to such an extent as on the addition of gum , gelatine , &amp;c. This last mode of arrangement includes both the former conditions , inasmuch as the corpuscles cohere firmly not only by their biconcave surfaces but by their edges also .
The first mode , or the formation of rouleaux , may be closely imitated by preparing a number of small disks of cork so poised as to float in the vertical position ; however carelessly these disks may be thrown into water , they will be found in a few moments to have arranged themselves into rouleaux after the manner of the blooddisks .
If a collection of blood-corpuscles cohering in the second mode be compared with the manner in which bubbles group themselves , as already described , the similarity will be allowed to be very striking .
From the marked analogy existing in their modes of arrangement , a suspicion naturally arises that the blood-globules are influenced by the same laws as the bubbles and cork-disks .
A more critical investigation , however , proves that the phenomena , although allied , possess well-marked distinctions .
The capillary action leading to adhesion , as exhibited in the cork-disks and bubbles , is not possible if these bodies are completely submerged in liquid ; but experiments carefully performed with the blood-globules demonstrate that both the formation of rouleaux and the peripheral adhesion may take place under circumstances in which it is absolutely certain that each individual corpuscle is completely submerged .
Thus if we take two pieces of microscopic glass , and , placing them in contact , press them firmly together and maintain them in opposition by a strong pair of pincers , we shall still have a capillary space between them which will draw in a thin layer of blood , the corpuscles of which will form themselves into the most perfect and beauitiful rouleaux .
The plasticity of the blood-corpuscle is unrivalled by any other p)hysical body .
It will assume all sorts of protean shapes under the slightest influences .
Elolngating to a mere thread , it will pass through a narrow chink ; it will wrap itself round an acute projectingo angle , or protrud1e feelers and tails under the influence of currents .
In its natural state it possesses sufficient elasticity to resume its originlal shape on the cessation of modifying inifluenices ; but when gum or gelatine has been added , or when the plasma has been permitted to thiclken spontaneously , the corpuscle retains any form it may have assumed , till again altered by some fresh influence .
The only artificial body capable of simulating the visible modifications of the blood-corpuscle is any extremely delicate , moderately filled vesicle .
The variations in its behaviour appear to be due to the degree of distention or flaccidity , which are doubtless under the influence of diosmosis .
Wheni the corpuscles are apparently fused together , as after the acldition of gum , the mass runs about like a thick liquid .
Palts not previously in contact coalesce intimately with each other .
Under the influence of currents , these masses stretch at certain poilnts into fine threads , consisting of a single file of corpuscles , each corpuscle being elonlgated to its utmost , and filnally sever at the natural junctioni of a single corpuscle with its fellow , the two stretched portions receding again into their respective masses .
Familiarity with the various conditions which the blood-corpuscles assume , and the analogous effects which take place in globules of homogeneous liquids , leads irresistibly to the colnclusion that , oln account of their great plasticity and the extreme tenuity and pliancy of their enclosing membrane , the blood-corpuLscles are , under certain circumstances , subject to the law of cohesive attraction , in the same manner as these globules ; and that , as with the latter so with the blood-corpuscles , changes in the character of the surrounding liquid determine the facility with which this law may come into operation .
If , as is well known , we place on a non-metallic surface small portions of liquid mercury , they will retain their spheroidal shape ; and if any two of them be made to touch , they will be attracted to each other , and one larger globule will result .
If for the mercury we substitute water , using paper or metal as a support , we may get partial spheroids , which , being increased by repeated small adlitions till they touch each other , immediately coalesce , forming a semiovoid mass , instead of a sphere as in the case of the mercury .
Mercury containing other metals in solution acts like the water .
Again , if a small quantity of chloroform or bisulphuret of carbon be poured into water , the greater portion will sink to the bottom of the water in globules of various sizes .
The portion which floats may also be driven below the surface by striking it from above .
These globules , when in contact , act precisely as the mercuirial globules , i. e. blend with each other .
They frequently adhere to the bottom of the vessel ; and on an attempt being made to move them , tail-like appendages are produced .
Creosote , castor oil , and the ethereal oil of male fern , all give permanent globular masses when forced below the surface of water .
By agitation of the water , the latter globules may be elongated into threads from half an inch to an inch in length , and again resume their spheroidal shape .
If in the process of elolngation the thread be broken through , two spheroids reslult .
If , instead of water , we use in these experiments a solution of soap , whatever form is giveln by agitation to the masseg of oil is retained , and they possess no power whatever to blend with each other the cohesive power is eompletely restrained .
If a portion of the same oil be shaken with water , we get a number of minute globules ; and by placing them in a cell under the inch power of the microscope , we observe they possess little tendency to coalesce after the type of the chloroform ; but if a portion of gum solution be poured into the cell , the process of incorporation commences immediately , and proceeds with rapidity .
When these globules are formed in thick syrup , they exhibit a very great tendency to combine ; but if to the syrup a little thick gum be added , this action is wholly prevented ; neither do they adhere to each other when in contact .
If we mix three parts of a solution of 5 grains of gelatine in I drachm of water with 1 part oil of male fern , forcibly shaking them together in a test-tube , and draw a little of the mixture between two glasses in contact , we obtain numbers of globules about the size of the blood-corpuscles , and many much smaller .
These globules will be seen to possess the power of adhering to each other in groups and rows ; and on a closer examination the cohering parts will be observed to have undergone a mutual flattening , just as in the case of the corpuscles and bubbles before mentioned .
We find then that the blood-corpuscles , while beneath the surface of the serum , adhere to each other , sometimes by their biconcave surfaces , so as to form rouleaux , sometimes by their peripheries , and sometimes in both ways simultaneously .
They adhere also to foreign substances with which they come in contact , and on which they rest ; and then currents in the liquor sanguinis give rise to tail-like processes .
An adherent mass of corpuscles is capable of being elongated , and frequently gives way in the centre , when the two parts recede into their respective masses .
These effects occur contemporaneously with changes in the liquor sanguinis .
In the normal state of this liquid , the corpuscles have no tendency to cohere ; but the slightest modification of it , even while within the vessels , confers cohesive power on the white corpuscle ; and the further alteration which occurs in blood taken from the body disposes the red disks to arrange themselves in rouleaux .
When the liquor sauguinis is further altered by the addition of colloid substances , or allowed to modify itself spontaneously , the corpuscles become less elastic , and evince a great tendency to float with their surface upwards , and hence to cohere by their edges .
The attraction being proportionate to the amount of surface in contact , when the disks are free to move in the vertical position , and the tendency to cohesion is but moderate , they arrange themselves by their plane surfaces as the cork-disks do , not because the edges of the disks have no attraction for each other , but the planes offering a larger surface of attraction , this position is not so easily disttirbed by currents in the serum .
That this is the fact may be learned from the circumstance that when the plane surface of a corkor blood-disk comes in contact with the side of a rouleau , it becomes as firmly fixed as if applied to the planie of its fellow .
Every specimen , of blood offers numerous instances of this kind .
These then being some of the peculiarities of blood-corpuscles , we learn , on the other hanld , that globules of homogeneous liquids attract and become incorporated with each other when submerged in Other liquids , being , like the blood-corpuscles , influenced in this respect by variations in the surrounding medium .
They may also , by disturbances of this medium , become elongated ; and if the elongated mass severs , each portion falls back into itself and becomes an independent globule .
They also become adherent to the solids which they touch , and exhibit tail-like processes .
It will be universally admitted that these latter phenomena depend on cohesive attraction .
Compared with the blood-corpuscles , these bodies are rigid and unyielding ; how much more readily may we therefore ascribe the like effects observed in the former to the same cause .
It has been urged that nothing approaching to the character of an attractive influence has ever been observed with the blood-disks ; but it must be remembered that the attraction of cohesion could not be indicated by motion between corpuscles at perceptible distances , but could only take place when the particles of the bodies were so closely applied to each other as to be within the radius of the sphere of molecular influence ; and it is only under certain special circumstances that such an attraction could be even inferentially visible .
I have repeatedly observed such an attraction exercised among corpuscles under the only circumstance in which the observation is possible .
After the addition of gum or gelatine to the blood , and the cessation of the consequent disturbance , there will still be malny individual corpuscles and little circular masses floating sluggishly and unattached in the serum .
After a time some of these will come in contact with each other at one point in their circumference ; and if the disturbance in the liquor sanguinis is very slight , they will cohere at this point , and then will be seen to become graduially applied to each other for half their circumference .
This is an action which can readily be understood as the successive operation of molecular attraction on the particles of the corpuscles immediately contiguous to those in absolute contact , but can receive no explanation on the hypothesis of adhesiveness .
The best mode of observing this important phenomenon is to draw the mixture of gum and blood between two glasses in contact .

