Supplement to the First and Second Part of the Paper of Experiments for Investigating the Cause of Coloured Concentric Rings between Object-glasses , and other Appearances of a similar Nature .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read March 15 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 149 .
] The Supplement now offered to the Society , is intended to clear up certain points which have been represented to the author as obscure or doubtful in his former communications , and at the same time to connect more intimately the prismatic experiments of the second paper with those made upon convex glasses , and described in the author 's first paper on the subject .
Since Dr. Herschel has heard the originality of his observation of the red bow called in question , upon the ground that a red bow had been observed by Sir Isaac Newton , which is merely the converse of the blue bow ( the change of colour being dependent upon the direction in which the light is received upon the prism ) , Dr. Herschel first endeavours to answer the objection , and reminds us that in his former observations the angular breadth and elevation of the two bows are different ; but those of the Newtonian blue and red bows are said to be , and are , necessarily equal .
In the Newtonian experiment also , the same beam of light is made to exhibit both phenomena , being received upon two right-angled prisms , applied base to base , so that one portion of the light is reflected upwards , as a blue bow from the under surface of the first prism ; and the remainder , by transmission , through the second prism , appears as a red bow to an eye beneath .
But in Dr. Herschel 's experiment , the same prism is made to exhibit , to an eye in the same situation , the red bow as well as the blue , by means of light transmitted in an opposite direction through the under surface of the prism , without any occasion for a second prism , which ( as Dr. Herschel observes ) is necessary in the Newtonian method of conducting the experiment .
The next objection replied to by Dr. Herschel , regards the streaks that may be seen adjacent to the bows when a second surface is applied to that side of a prism at which a critical separation of the colours takes place .
It has been said that streaks parallel to the bows , though not dependent on critical separation , will in that situation be seen most easily and most distinctly , because the visual ray , under those circumstances , passes with the greatest obliquity between the surfaces .
To this objection Dr. Herschel replies , that these streaks not only can be seen most easily and most distinctly in the place where the bows are , but they absolutely cannot be seen anywhere else .
The parallelism also of the streaks to the bows , in the author 's estimation , proves that the same cause which determines the direction of the bow , must determine that of the streaks , and thus establishes their dependence on critical separation .
Dr. Herschel also contends , that streaks of different colours could not be produced by a plate of air , of uniform thinness , between plain surfaces , and that the prevalence of a blue colour in the streaks belonging to the blue bow , and of the converse in those belonging to the red bow , prove their dependence on critical separation .
Since it has been conceived by other persons , that by means of a plateof air , havingtheform of an extremely thinwedge , straight bands of colour would be produced between plain surfaces slightly inclined to each other ; and as an experiment in support of this opinion had been shown to the author , he gives his own explanation of the fact : and he ascribes the production of the colours to distortion of the surfaces , because a degree of force was in that instance employed for the purpose of producing the requisite contact at one extremity of the glass .
And since in other experiments , made with perfectly plain surfaces , where no pressure was employed no streaks could be seen , Dr. Herschel concludes that when streaks are seen , the surfaces employed are either not plain in their general extent , or are terminated by some inconceivably small curvature at the edges in contact .
It has , in the next place , been observed to the author , that in the enlarged figure which he has given in his last paper to illustrate the streaks , the vacancies observable correspond with , and depend upon , the assumed intervals between the rays , which in that figure are represented as originally separated by blank spaces .
Dr. Herschel admits that there is some plausibility in this objection , but informs us , that the siupposed force of it is founded on a misconception of the figure , which is not designed to represent the visible arrangement and colours of the streaks , which can only be deduced from their mixture at the place where they eilter the eye ; but he declines a thorough investigation of this point , because it would really be an endless undertaking .
One section of the present communication is devoted to the consideration of the breadth of the streaks compared to that of the bows , and the cause why they must take up a broader space than the bows from which they are derived ; because it has been remarked , that this circumstance precludes the possibility of accounting for them by critical separation .
But although this remark may at first view appear to be justified , it must be remembered ( says the author ) that the modifying power of the surfaces is added to the principle of the critical separation .
The modification specifically named by the author , is that of reflection by the plain surface held under the prism , which , in the first instance , magnified the extent to 2-I times the breadth of the bow ; and if the reflection be repeated any number of times between the two adjacent surfaces , it may increase the extent in any greater proportion .
The last objection to which the author replies , relates to those positions in which rings of colours , and other similar phenomena , are seen , but in which the colours produced by critical separation could not reach the eye .
For instance , rings and bands of colour , which arise from contact at the iunder surface of a plate of glass terminated by parallel planes , are seen through the upper surface , although colours separated by critical reflection or intermission , evidently could not come to the eye under these circumstances .
But Dr. Herschel reminds us , that he does not affirm critical separation to be the sole cause of the rings produced by contact of a plane and sphere , but that it only furnishes the colours , which are afterwards modified by the subjacent spherical surface ; and next proceeds to several sets of experiments , which he considers decisive in support of the validity of his theory , in reply to this objection .
In the first set of experiments a series of prisms , of different forms , are successively placed within their bases , resting upon a spherical metallic surface .
When a right-angled prism was placed in this situation , and the eye was gradually raised from a level with its base , no colours were seen till it arrived at the elevation necessary for critical separation .
At this point the blue bow became visible , and rings began to be perceived at the same time .
When the eye was lifted gradually higher and higher , till it arrived opposite to the vertex of the prism , the rings continued visible , without interruption , notwithstanding successive changes which occurred in their colours and size : and even when the eye was carried beyond the vertical position , the same rings continued visible , so as to be seen , upon the whole , through a range of at least 77 ? .
Instead of the right-angled prism , having a refracting angle of 450 on each side , Dr. Herschel afterwards substituted prisms with their vertical angles ; successively more obtuse , and with equal refracting angles on each side , first of 30 ?
, then of 25 ?
, then of 20 ?
, and lastly of 90 on each side .
In all these instances the phenomena were similar ; but the range of visibility increased in proportion as the refracting -angle was smaller , so that in the last instance the range within which the rings were visible from each surface , exceeded 1380 .
And hence might be inferred the still greater extent , in case of plain glass , which may be looked upon as a prism with a vanishing refracting angle .
These experiments , in Dr. Herschel 's estimation , establish the modifying power of spherical surfaces , whereby they render colours that have been entirely separated , visible in every direction .
In the next set of experiments , the author substitutes a cylindrical surface for that which in the former set was spherical ; and by a similar series of prisms , successively more and more obtuse at their vertical angles , the coloured streaks , which in this case appeared instead of rings , were rendered visible to greater and greater extent , till with a plain glass they were seen as far as 1700 .
In a third set of experiments , conducted in the same manner , the under surface brought into contact with the prisms , consisted of mica , rendered nearly cylindrical by being bent over a cylindrical surface .
From the irregularity in the form of the mica , that of the colours was also irregular ; but they served to show the increase of extent to which such appearances may be rendered visible by corresponding change of the angle of the prism .
Dr. Herschel is consequently of opinion , that any one who could object to the admission of critical separation as the cause of the phenomena'under consideration , cannot have paid sufficient attention to the modifying power of the subjacent reflecting surface , which is so essential to their formation .
If any one is disposed to assume that the rings must arise from some other cause than critical separation , unless it can be shown how rays critically separated can reach the eye , the author thinks it is not to be expected that he should trace them through a most intricate complication of reflections from curve to curve , when it has been shown , in the second part of this paper , that even with streaks produced by contact of two plain surfaces , it would be an endless attempt to follow them .
He accordingly thinks it sufficient to have proved , to his own satisfaction , two essential points ; first , that colours separated critically may be formed into rings , when modification will increase the field of visibility to any extent beyond the limits of critical separation .
Enough ( says the author ) has been said to prove that the phenomena of coloured rings , and other phenomena that have been ascribed to certain fits of easy reflection and easy transmission , admit of the most satisfactory explanation , by substituting the solid principle of the critical separation of the different colours , in the room of these fits .

