]\gt ; 1903 .
] of a Bcarn of Cross-section .
391 The deviation in ths case of the thermometer boiling point of that , supposing Callendal\ldquo ; results to be correct , relatively small , though lihe discrepancy is really due to the method of expressing the resuIts , a degree at the lower temperature having a greater significance than at the higher temperaturc .
The fact that the value of the devintion does not vanish zero sure may possibly be dne to tendency of the gaseous molecules to associate .
This tendency ] be less ffected by change of than by Ilge of temperature .
: On an Solution for Bending of a Bcall of crular Cross-section under nny System of Load.\mdash ; Additional Note By .
N. G. nltcated Dr. C. CIII{EE , F. eceived S , 190 attention has lately been called by .Flamant to discrepancies in some formulae given } ) me in paper recentl .
published under the above title .
On investigation I have found that a set of fol'mulae of the paper question , namely , those of , contain ed several inaccuracies .
I am unable to iount for th .
introduction of these errors paper , and ean only my great regret that this mistake occurred and tlJat I failed to detect ; in time to remedy it before the finally printed .
most important of the final .esults , those relating to the stresscs , fortunately , correctly given .
The object of this short note is to give the results of S 41 of paper referred to , in their amcnded form .
Equation ( 111 ) should read tions following ttre correct , until comc to ( 12S ) , , .
*Ramsay , ' Phys. Soc. Proc. ' Tratls , vol. 201 , pp. of a Beam of Itcctangular Cross-section .
[ Sept. 12 , The lues of , at the bottom of p. 149 , should read const .
const .
Yhe alues of and at the ] ) ottom of p. 149 are correct .
value of on p. 150 shouId be values of on p. 150 arc correct .
The values of , on the page , to bc In S 42 the value of from the erroneous of , should ) incc is negative ( with zcro for extremc value ) , the result 1903 .
] On th Sensation of roduced by Rays .
shows the constant term in the curvature is .
in general , increased numerically by the correction .
Furthcr , this constant term involves the two elastic constants .
The general conclusions wibh regaled to the beam mder a uniform load arc in no way aff.ccted .
' On the Sensation of luced by Radium and its Relation to the Visual Purple By W. B. Cains , and H. K. , Caius College , September 20 , 1903 .
It is now wcll known that when few milligrammes of a of radium are brought near the head in the dark a sensation of diffuse light is produced .
We have examined this phenomenon the object ( 1 ) of determining the place of origin of the sensation ; ) of identifying the rays which cause it .
The rays from radium falling upon the skin produce no sensation , and we failed in evoking sensations of sotlnd , smell , or tastc by agency .
The only response immediately traceable to them scems to be this one of diffuse luminosity .
It may bc described as an of diffnsc light of steady intensity disposed in the external space in front of the head and filling that space fairly or quite uniformly .
If the radium , covered of course with some opaque screen such as , for instance , black cardboard , to cnt off the pale light which it emits , be held in of onccyc , one notices that the intensity of the is redueed by closing the velid .
the eye is ) it is possible in very general way to locate the radium from the fact that the tion is when the axis of vision is directed to it and when the head is turned to one side .
The sense of dircction arises solely from variations in the intensity of the and not variations in ils quality .
When the eyc is closed of locality is completcly lost .
This is due to the fact , to be dealt with more fully presently , that the glow is duo to the and rays , and that the eyelid is pccnlially opaque to the former , stopping apparontly the whole of them .
The rays , on the other haIld , having a very great penetrnting power , pass almost cqually well through the eyelid or through the bones and other tissucs forming ) orbit .
There is , therefore , no possibility of a differcntinl scrcening action when once the eyelids closed and the rays stopped , with the result that scllsG of bhc dircction of the source of light is lost .
The scnsation of light is purcly of retin .
It is not due to

