592 Studies on Enzyme Action .
VII.-\#151 ; The Synthetic Action of Acids contrasted with that of Enzymes .
Synthesis of Maltose and Isomaltose .
By Edward Frankland Armstrong , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
, Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemical Department , City and Guilds of London Institute , Central Technical College .
( Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , 1905 .
) ' [ International Catalogue of Scientific Literature .
Author 's title slip :\#151 ; D. Q. Subject slips :\#151 ; D 1810 Glucose , condensation of .
D 1820 Maltose and Isomaltose .
Synthesis of D 7090 Condensation of Glucose .
D 8012 Enzymes .
Synthetic action of Q 1230 Enzymes .
Synthetic action of Q 1416 Maltose and Isomaltose .
Synthesis of , by Acids and Enzymes .
] The belief has grown up of late years that the enzymes which are capable of inducing the hydrolysis of disaccharides or bioses act reversibly ; as yet , however , but little has been done to define the theory of the process and no understanding has been arrived at as to the limitations to which such changes are subject .
The same is true of the action of acids , which also act reversibly under certain conditions .
Croft Hill , * whose observations gave rise to the conception of reversible enzyme action , at first thought that maltose alone was produced by the action of the enzyme maltase on glucose .
Emmerling , f who repeated Croft Hill 's experiments , came to the conclusion that the product was isomaltose , the biose which E. Fischerf obtained by subjecting glucose to the action of concentrated chlorhydric acid .
In a later communication^ while still claiming that maltose is formed in small quantity , Croft Hill has admitted that the chief product is an isomeride of maltose ; but he regards this as different from isomaltose and therefore terms it By subjecting a mixture of galactose and glucose such as is obtained by hydrolysing milk sugar with lactase to the action of this enzyme , a disaccharide , isolactose , || is formed , which is undoubtedly isomeric with milk * ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1898 , p. 634 ; * Ber .
, ' 1901 , vol. 34 , p. 1380 .
t ' Ber .
, ' 1901 , vol. 34 , pp. 600 and 2206 .
\ 'Ber .
, ' 1890 , vol. 23 , p. 3687 ; 1895 , vol. 28 , p. 3024 .
S 'Chem .
Soc. Trans. , ' 1903 , p. 578 .
|| E. Fischer and E. F. Armstrong , 'Ber .
, ' 1902 , vol. 35 , p. 3151 .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
sugar , as the synthetic product is completely fermented by bottom yeast , a yeast having no action on milk sugar ; moreover , as the solution has no reducing action after the removal of this product by fermentation , the presence of milk sugar is precluded .
This observation is scarcely compatible with the statement made by Croft Hill in his latest communication that , whilst a large number of isomeric bioses are conceivably possible , " one would expect that with any particular enzyme or group of enzymes only those would be formed which are capable of being hydrolysed back to glucose by the same enzyme : " the very opposite would appear to be the case , as will be shown later on .
If the argument made use of in previous communications be correct , the action of acids and of enzymes , both as hydrolytic and as condensing agents , is similar , except that , and in so far as , differences arise owing to the non-selective activity of the former and the strictly selective activity exercised by the latter .
The key to the interpretation of the changes which attend condensation must be looked for in the behaviour of glucose itself in solution .
It is now abundantly proved that glucose can exist in two stereoisomeric forms , differing only in the position which the hydroxyl group occupies relatively to the oxygen atom in the ring , viz.:\#151 ; HO H -C c C C\gt ; C c\lt ; HO\gt ; ( \lt ; .
\0/ \0/ a-Glucose.* / 3-Glueose .
The term glucose , in fact , has a double connotation and these two-substances must usually be thought of under the single name .
As crystallised from alcohol , it consists almost entirely of the a-form ; but this changes over into the / 3-form if maintained during several days at about 105 ' .
f If either form be dissolved in water , change takes place of the one into the-other : ultimately , the two forms exist in solution in equilibrium , in proportions which depend on the conditions , the / 3- compound predominating.^ * The two positions are labelled arbitrarily .
+ Of .
Tanret , 'Bull .
Soc. Chim .
, ' 1905 , vol. 33 , p. 337 .
X Tanret , who was the first to recognise that glucose existed in several forms , has been-led by the results recorded in No. 1 of this series to reconsider the conclusion he originally came to that three isomerides are obtainable .
He now agrees that there are but two , corresponding to the two a- and / 3-metliylglucosides , and that his supposed third modification was an equilibrated mixture of these two forms .
Calculating from the rotatory power ( [ a]i\gt ; = +110 ' ) of the pure a- and [ a]D = +19 ' of the pure / 3-form , lieDr .
E. F. Armstrong .
[ July 29 , Change takes place in a similar manner in other media .
If the glucose be dissolved in methylic alcohol containing hydrogen chloride , it undergoes etherification , each of the two glucoses being converted into the corresponding methylglucoside:* only one of these ( the a-compound ) is hydrolysed by maltase ; the other ( the / 3-compound ) is hydrolysed by emulsin .
The behaviour of these two glucosides is typical of that of glucosides generally , which are divisible into two groups , the a and the / 3 , according as they are hydrolysed either by maltase or by emulsin .
It is noteworthy that , apart from the sugars proper , in all cases in which the test can be applied , the natural glucosides have been found to belong to the / 3-group .
The process by which a monose is converted into a biose must be regarded as precisely similar to that by which a-glucose and / 3-glucose are converted into the two methylglucosides : the behaviour of maltose , in fact , is such as to characterise it unquestionably as glucose-a-glucoside ; isomaltose is presumably the stereoisomeric glucose-/ 3-glucoside .
When glucose undergoes condensation " uncontrolled , " it should give rise to both maltose and isomaltose , the proportions of which ultimately present in equilibrium would depend on their relative stability under the conditions operative at the time .
But , inasmuch as hydrolysis under the influence of enzymes is an absolutely selective process , being so controlled that it takes place in one direction only , it might be supposed that synthesis under their influence would also be a controlled operation and that the tendency of the enzyme would be to reproduce the biose which it hydrolyses : apparently this point of view was present in Croft Hill 's mind and led him to suppose , at first , that maltose was the actual product ; as a matter of fact , it is uncertain at present whether maltose is produced at all : it is certainly not the sole nor even the predominant product .
The formation under the influence of the enzyme of a single biose , isomeric with that which it hydrolyses , could be accounted for on the assumption that both are produced initially but that the one again undergoes hydrolysis as soon as it is formed , so that it all but disappears .
If , however , it were shown that only the stereoisomeride of the biose hydrolysed is produced initially , it would be necessary to regard the synthetic activity of the enzyme as opposed to its hydrolytic activity .
An explanation which in a measure unites both infers that the proportion in which these are present in equilibrium is a = 37 per cent. , 13 = 63 per cent , in a 10-per-cent , solution , and 40 , / 3 = 60 in a concentrated solution .
Lowry ( ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1904 , p. 1551 ) , who bases his conclusions on determinations of solubility , takes the view that a solution of glucose contains a considerable proportion of glucose aldehydrol in addition to a- and / 3-glucose ; but his argument cannot be regarded as a convincing one ( ' Comp. Jungius .
Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' 1905 , p. 103 ) .
* E. P. Armstrong and S. L. Courtauld , 'Proc .
Physiol. Soc.,5 July , 1905 .
1905 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
points of view is that the enzyme acts throughout by " protecting " one or the other position , according as it belongs either to the a- or to the / 3-class of hydrolysts , thereby practically preventing condensation from taking place in more than one direction ; in other words , assuming that it be the function of the enzyme to bring water into the circuit of change at the precise spot where it is required to effect the hydrolysis of a biose , it might serve , when acting on the products of hydrolysis , to maintain water in such a position as to hinder the condensation from occurring in the direction which would involve the reversal of the operation of hydrolysis ; condensation would then be confined to the alternative position and would give rise to the biose which is the correlative of that hydrolysed by the enzyme .
There can be no doubt that the enzyme has a specific influence in promoting the formation of the biose which it cannot hydrolyse , as no action takes place in its absence or when the solution is heated sufficiently fc\gt ; destroy it .
To understand the character of this influence , it should be remembered that a- and / 3-methylglucoside have both been shown to be capable of entering into close association with maltase and with emulsin ; presumably , therefore , the two forms of glucose present in solution both combine with the enzyme .
Inasmuch as the enzymes are capable of acting as hydrolytic agents , they must , like acids , be capable also of acting as dehydrating agents .
Probably the two forms of glucose give rise to different results , because , while hydrolytic action prevails in the one system , in the other the dehydrating effect is alone exercised , the association of the a-enzyme with a-glucose being of such a nature that water is continually present and can be made use of at the centre where the condensation should take place , the dehydrating effect being therefore almost entirely in abeyance .
whilst in the enzyme-/ 3-glucose system the configuration of the enzyme relatively to the ^-glucose is such as to render hydrolysis impossible and consequently the dehydrating effect prevails .
In both cases opportunity conditions action : the different actions are begotten of different opportunities .
It is noteworthy that , under natural conditions , apparently only one product is formed , there being no evidence , for example , that isomaltose is ever present in the plant .
If further investigation should render this conclusion absolute , it will follow that the control exercised under natural conditions is not merely that which the separated enzyme exercises .
But attention must not be confined to the enzyme , as the argument used above tends to show that , even under the influence of maltase , maltose alone might be produced , if the conditions prevailing in the plant be such as to give rise only to a-glucose , provided that the maltose were immediately withdrawn from the sphere of action , for example , by diffusion and fixation as starch ; VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; b. 2 s 596 Dr. E. E. Armstrong .
[ July 29 , and that such may be the case is by no means improbable , as it is conceivable that if glucose were formed against a maltase template , * it would be present initially only in the a-form .
It will be obvious from these statements that it is all-important to determine the nature of the product , both when condensation is effected by ordinary chemical means and also when effected by means of an enzyme .
1 .
Proof is given in the present communication that when the condensation is effected under laboratory conditions the action takes place in the manner indicated above ; in other words , the two products required by theory are both formed .
2 .
Evidence is adduced to show that isomaltose is the / 3-glucoside correlative with the a-glucoside maltose .
3 .
Experiments are described bearing on the formation of isomaltose by the agency of the a-enzyme maltase and of its correlative maltose by the agency of the / S-enzj'me emulsin which leave little doubt that the two bioses are producible from glucose .
4 .
And whilst it is left undecided whether maltase can give r.se to maltose , evidence is cited which at least renders it probable that emulsin does not give rise to isomaltose .
Synthesis of Maltose and Isomaltose by means of Acid .
To effect the condensation of glucose , E. Eischer used ordinary chlorhydric acid .
The precipitate obtained on mixing the liquid with a large quantity of alcohol and ether was dissolved in water and all fermentable matter was removed from the neutralised solution by means of brewers ' yeast .
Such a method of purification would have destroyed any maltose which had been formed .
Eischer does not appear , however , to have contemplated the formation of this sugar .
In my experiments , a stronger acid was used and this was afterwards removed by means of lead carbonate .
Appropriate yeasts were used to destroy one or the other carbohydrate .
One hundred grammes of glucose having been dissolved in 300 c.c. of concentrated chlorhydric acid , the mixture was cooled to 0 ' and hydrogen chloride gas was passed in until the colour commenced to darken .
The liquid was kept below +10 ' C. during about 40 hours , when the temperature was allowed to rise to 15 ' .
After neutralising the acid by stirring the liquid with lead carbonate , the filtrate and washings were shaken with silver carbonate to remove the dissolved lead chloride .
Finally an almost colourless neutral solution was obtained .
Judging from * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 73 , p. 538 .
1905 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
its behaviour with phenylhydrazine , this contained a biose , together with much glucose .
The manner in which isomaltose and maltose were detected will be apparent from the following descriptions :\#151 ; Proof of the Presence of Isomaltose.\#151 ; To remove the unchanged glucose , about 20 c.c. of boiled yeast-water were added to the liquid , which was then sterilised and inoculated with a quick-acting pure yeast , S. intermedians , Hansen .
After fermentation had gone on during 10 days at 25 ' , the solution was filtered , mixed with a little calcium carbonate to neutralise any acid which had been formed during the fermentation , boiled to expel alcohol and then reinoculated with yeast under sterile conditions .
These operations were usually repeated a second time , experience having shown such repetition to be the only way in which the last trace of fermentable sugar can be removed .
The solution finally obtained , when clarified with charcoal , was almost colourless ; the total volume was 150 c.c. ; its rotatory power in a 1-decimetre tube was aD = 4a20 .
When a mixture of about 15\#151 ; 20 c.c. of the solution with 2-\#151 ; 3 c.c. of almost colourless phenylhydrazine , dissolved in 3 c.c. of 50 per cent , acetic acid , was heated in a flask in a boiling water bath during 1\#151 ; 1|- hours , no separation of osazone took place from the hot liquid , which was an indication that no glucosazone was formed .
On cooling the liquid , a light yellow flocculent osazone separated out slowly ; this was filtered off , well washed with cold water and redissolved in boiling water , in which it was entirely and easily soluble .
The osazone only crystallised out when the solution was nearly cold , differing in this respect from inaltosazone , which crystallises out while the solution is still hot .
After a second crystallisation from water , the osazone was crystallised from dilute alcohol ; it then formed a light brownish yellow crystalline powder , which decomposed when heated at about 120 ' .
To complete the purification , it was next crystallised from wet ethylic acetate .
The slightly yellow micro-crystalline powder thus obtained was very soluble in boiling water ; on heating , it melted at about 156 ' , forming a brown liquid , which decomposed at 198 ' , behaving in every way exactly in the manner described by E. Fischer .
It was to be supposed that if it were a derivative of glucose , it would be hydrolysed by emulsin : 30 c.c. of the solution were therefore mixed with a small quantity of active emulsin and a few drops of toluene ; the liquid was then set aside in a closed flask during several days at 38 ' , along with a similar quantity of the solution to which no enzyme had been added .
To test whether glucose had been formed , the filtered solutions were heated side by side with phenylhydrazine .
In the one case , separation of an insoluble 2 s 2 598 Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ July 29 , glucosazone was observed after 20 minutes ' heating ; in the control experiment no separation took place but a soluble osazone was formed .
Proof of the Presence of Maltose.\#151 ; In order to destroy the glucose , the liquid was fermented with S. Marxianus , a yeast which does not contain maltase and therefore is without action on maltose .
After removal of the fermentable matter , the solution , 200 c.c. in volume , containing the product from 50 grammes of maltose , had the rotatory power aD = + 7''35 , which was about double that observed in a similar solution containing isomaltose alone .
The osazone formed on heating with phenylhydrazine was entirely soluble in boiling water , but distinctly less soluble than the isomaltosazone ; it began to separate from the liquid while this was still hot and the osazone could be fractionated into more and less soluble portions .
Separate portions of the solution were digested with emulsin and maltase ; in both cases glucoses were formed .
When subjected to the joint action of emulsin and a yeast containing maltase inter medians ) , the solid matter in solution disappeared almost entirely in a single fermentation .
The isomaltose is apparently present in larger quantity than maltose : it is proposed to determine their relative proportions by removing the isomaltose from the mixture by the joint action of emulsin and Marxianus .
The Production of Isomaltose means of Maltase .
The maltase extract used was always prepared by grinding 5 grammes of air-dried top yeast ( from a London brewery ) with 100 cm .
of water and then digesting the mixture at 25 ' during two to three hours .
Fifty grammes of glucose were dissolved in about 75 c.c. of the filtered extract , and some toluene was added to maintain the liquid sterile ; the solution was kept in a stoppered bottle at 25 ' during two to three months or even longer ; it darkened somewhat but remained perfectly clear and sweet .
To remove glucose and maltose , the solution diluted with an equal volume of water was boiled with charcoal and filtered ; yeast water was then added and after the liquid had been sterilised it was fermented with S. intermedians .
To insure complete removal of the glucose , it was necessary to repeat the fermentation at least twice .
Ultimately , a clear solution was obtained which not only had a strong reducing action on Fehling 's solution but also a high positive rotatory power .
When treated with phenylhydrazine in the manner described , it gave an osazone in every way identical with isomaltosazone ; in fact , when the experiments were carried out side by side with the products obtained by means of acid and by means of the enzyme , no difference could be detected .
The product also behaved in the manner to be expected towards emulsin , being converted into glucose .
1905 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
The Production of Maltose means of Emulsin .
A solution of 50 grammes glucose in 75 c.c. water was mixed with 1 gramme of emulsin .
The liquid was kept at 25 ' during about two months : then filtered , diluted and freed from glucose by continued fermentation with 8 .
Marxianus in the manner described .
Ultimately , a solution was obtained which contained a disaccharide yielding a phenylosazone soluble in boiling water but separating quickly on cooling ; the product crystallised in plates , which , when recrystallised from wet ethylic acetate , melted and decomposed at 200 ' , which is but very few degrees below the melting point of pure maltosazone .
The matter in solution underwent almost complete fermentation when inocculated with a yeast containing maltase ) ; only traces of reducing sugar remained , showing that little , if any , isomaltose could have been formed .
These observations leave practically no doubt that the substance present was maltose .
The yield under the conditions hitherto observed has been very small .
The experiments will be continued with the object of obtaining both maltose and isomaltose in a separate crystalline state .

