]\gt ; Norm f. liinear $ On the Normal Series satisfying Differen ial ' By E. INGHALI .
icated by .
H. .
BAKE F.R.S. Received December 8 , \mdash ; Bead December 15 , 1904 .
( Abstract ) .
If denotes column of elements , and is a matrix of rows and columns of elements , each of which is function of the independent variable , independent solutions of the system of simultaneous equations are given by the unns o the matrix . . .
; where denotes In the ' Proceedings of the London lInthematical Society , ' vol. pp. 333 fl the form of this solution is eloped 1 ) Dr. H. F. for the case in which each eleme]t of has pole of order unity at the point .
This is the case of a system derived from a linear ordinary equation of order ?
of regular in the neighbonrhood of If is any square matri-x oi order and a the system of equations then is satisfying This result is used by Dr. the ) to show that iu the case solution be found in the folllt , where the elements of are simply series of powers of the matrix is expressible finite tcrms .
The form of esnlt in evidence arc known as -gronps of integrals .
The present paper deals with the system of the matri is of the form . . . . .
, .
being matrices of constants .
The general linear ordinary equation of order which as a pole of its coefficients is reduced to this form .
It is shown , in tho first place , that ovided the roots of the determinantal equation 340 Normal ying IiinenJ ' Differential Bquations .
arc all diflerent , a matrix can be found , of the form in which all elements of , save ths diagonal elements , are zero , such that the system of equations is formally satisfied by a square matrix whose elements are series of positive integral powers of , generally divergent .
The elements of the matrix are therefore of the form Secondly it is found that , if the roots of the equation are not all unequal , provided certain conditions attached to each group of equal roots are satisfied , a matrix can bc found , having all elements to the left of the diagonal zero , such that the equations still formally satisfied by a ma rix of series of positive integral powers of The matrix can , in this case also , be completely integrated in finite terms ; the result may contain a certain number of powers of .
Applied to the single li11ear equation of order it is seen that the integrals fall into groups of the form : Lastly , when the conditions above mentioned are not satisfied , the system of equations is transformed by the change of variable to a new system of the same type in which the coefficients have poles of at It is then shown that in all cases an integcr can be found , such that the conditions that the new system can be solved by expressions of the above form all satisiied .
The groups of integrals thus found agree lvith those obtained by Fabrydirectly from the equation of order , Paris .

