Description of the Anatomy of the Ornithorhynchus Hystrix .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 3 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 348 .
] The specimen from which this description was taken , and which was exhibited to the Society at their Meeting , was brought from New South Wales .
It is a male , probably arrived at its full growth .
It is seventeen inches in length from the point of the bill to the extremity of the tail ; and its greatest circumference measures likewise about seventeen inches .
Its back and sides are covered with quills , the longest of which are about two inches and a half in length .
Its bill projects from the head one inch and three-fourths , tapering from its base , where it is seven-eighths of an inch in diameter to its point , where its diameter is not above three-eighths of an inch .
It is tubular , convex on the upper , and flat on the lower surface .
The tongue is cylindrical , very small towards the point , and eight inches long .
This species has a peculiarity in its mode of managing its food , which distinguishes it from the Paradoxus .
The food is first bruised by small horny prominences adhering to the tongue and palate , and then swallowed with a certain quantity of sand , the stomach being sufficiently large to contain this extraneous matter , together with the food , and effectually defended from injury by a cuticular lining .
Mr. Home proceeds , with his usual accuracy and minuteness , in his technical description , both of the external and internal parts , which he illustrates with a number of figures .
Having completed this detail , he observes in general , that this species of Ornithorhynchus being a nearer approach to the more perfect quadruped than the Paradoxus , and its tongue being in some respects similar to those of the Manis and Myrmecophaga , he thought it necessary to look among the different species of these genera for other parts of resemblance .
The result of this comparison is , that the Ornithorhynchus is essentially different from all other quadrupeds , bearing in some respects a resemblance to birds , and in others to the Amphibia , so that it may be considered as an intermediate link between the classes Mammalia , Aves , and Amphibia .
To the first class it no doubt approaches nearest in the instance of the Myrmecophaga ; and to the birds it bears a singular affinity in the male organs of generation , as is here illustrated by comparing its penis with that of the drake .
From the whole of this investigation are deduced the following characters as peculiar to this animal , considered as a genus .
The male has a spur on the two hind legs , close to the heel .
The female has no nipples , differing essentially in this , as well as in the organs of generation , from the Mammalia .
The beakl is smooth , while the rest of the animal is covered with hair .
The tongue has horny processes , which answer the purposes of teeth .
The penis of the male is solely appropriated to the passage of the semen , its external orifice being subdivided into several openings , so as to scatter the semen over an extent of surface , while the urine passes by a separate canal into the rectum .
And lastly , the female has no common uterus , the tubes , which correspond to the horns of the uterus in other quadrupeds , receiving the semen immediately from the penis of the male .
Mr. Home concludes his paper with a conjecture , that more species of this extraordinary animal will be gradually discovered ; a drawing having already been received from Van Diemen 's Land of an individual similar to the Hystrix here described , only with the spines much shorter .
And he thinks it probable that the class will in time be found to consist of various kinds , and that those hitherto known will be arranged under different genera .

