454 Dr. W. Roberts on the Influence of [ Dec. 21 , III .
" Note on the Influence of Liquor Potassse and an Elevated Temperature on the Origin and Growth of Microphytes .
" By Wm. Roberts , M.D. Communicated by Prof. Tyndall , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1876 .
In a recent communication to the Royal Society , Dr. Bastian * brought forward some experiments to show that while an acid urine usually remains barren after being boiled a few minutes , the same urine becomes fertile when similarly treated if previously neutralized or rendered alkaline by liquor potassse , especially if it be afterwards maintained at a temperature of 115 ' F. or 122 ' F. In this respect urine only conforms to the general rule observed by myself and formulated in my previous communication to the Society +\#151 ; that " slightly alkaline liquids were always more difficult to sterilize ( by heat ) than slightly acid liquids .
" This difference came out strongest in my own experiments in the case of hay-infusion\#151 ; the acid infusion invariably remaining barren after a few minutes boiling , and the neutralized infusion invariably becoming fertile after a similar boiling .
Accordingly I utilized hay-infusion to determine the cause of the difference in question .
It could evidently only be due to one of two things\#151 ; either ( 1 ) the change of reaction enabled germs preexisting in the infusion to survive the ebullition , or ( 2 ) the addition of the alkali exercised a positive influence in exciting a cle novo generation of organisms .
To decide which of these two interpretations was the true one , an experiment was contrived in which the liq .
potassae could be added to the infusion not before , but after it had been boiled , and thereby rendered permanently sterile .
When added in this way , I found that liquor potassse had not any power to excite germination .
The infusions invariably remained barren when the alkali was added to them after they had been sterilized .
I therefore concluded that the effect of the change of reaction consisted simply in enabling preexisting germs to survive a brief ebullition .
Dr. Bastian , in repeating this experiment in the case of urine , arrived at an opposite conclusion : he found that whether the alkali was added before or after ebullition he obtained the same result\#151 ; the urine in both cases became fertile ; and he concluded that the alkali had a positive power of promoting the origin of organisms in the urine .
This experiment , if properly performed , is obviously a crucial one , and it is recognized as such by Dr. Bastian .
But two conditions are essential to the validity of the experiment .
In the first place , it must be ascertained beyond doubt that the boiled acid fluid has been really deprived of its germs\#151 ; in other words , that the ebullition has been sufficiently prolonged to render it permanently barren ; and secondly , * " Researches illustrative of the Physico-Chemical Theory of Fermentation , " \amp ; c. See ante , p. 149 .
t " Studies on Biogenesis , " Phil. Trans , vol. clxiv .
p. 457 .
1876 .
] Liquor Potassa fyc.on Microphytes .
that in adding the liquor potass* due care is taken that no new germs are introduced at the same time .
In repeating my experiment , Dr. Bastiau appears to have departed from my procedure in two points , and he has thus possibly laid himself open to the two sources of fallacy just mentioned .
In my own experiments , the acid infusion , after it had been boiled , was set aside in a warm place for a fortnight in order to test its sterility ; and the liquor potasse was not added to it until the lapse of time had satisfied me that it had been rendered permanently barren .
In Dr. Bastian 's experiments the liquor potass* was added as soon as the vessels had cooled , so that he had no certainty that their contents would not have germinated without the addition of the alkali* .
In the second place , instead of heating the tubes containing the liquor potass* ( as I had done ) to 250 ' F. , and thus ensuring the destruction of all germs contained in the air imprisoned therein with the alkali , he contented himself with subjecting them for an inconsiderable period to the heat of boiling water .
Seeing these two possible sources of fallacy , I determined to repeat Dr. Bastian 's experiments with urine , but taking care to avoid these defects .
I proceeded as follows : A flask with a longish neck was charged with an ounce of normal acid urine .
The due quantity of liquor potass* requisite to exactly neutralize this ( as ascertained by previous trials ) was enclosed in a sealed glass tube drawn to a capillary portion at one end .
The tube was then heated in oil up to 280 ' F. , and maintained at that temperature for fifteen minutes .
The tube was then introduced into the body of the flask .
The neck of the flask was next drawn to a narrow orifice ; then the urine .was boiled for five minutes , and the orifice sealed in ebullition .
Ten such flasks were charged and treated in the same manner .
They were then set aside in a warm place ( from 70 ' F. to 80 ' F. ) for a fortnight .
At the end of this time the contents of the flasks were found perfectly transparent ; the urine was therefore assumed to be permanently sterilized The liquor potass* was then liberated by shaking the tubes against the sides of the flasks , and thus breaking their capillary points .
The previously acid and barren urine was thus neutralized .
The flas s were then placed in an incubator , and maintained at a constant temperature of 115 ' F. At the end of two days it was found that the urine m each flask had deposited a sediment of earthy phosphates ; but the supernatant liquid was perfectly transparent .
The flasks were again placed in the incubator , and maintained at a constant temperature ot 1 for three days .
At the end of this period they were withdrawn and opened for examination .
Not one of them showed the slightest evidence of living organisms ; the supernatant liquid was perfectly transparent , and no Microphytes could be detected under the microscope .
The pre* It is not sufficient to rely in such a case on a control flask or retort .
Each flask or retort should have its own individual sterility tested , because it is practically impossible to apply the heat exactly in the same degree in any two cases .
456 Influence of Liquor Potass\#174 ; fyc .
on Microphytes .
[ Dec. 21 , cipitated phosphate in some of the flasks presented a granular appearance , which might , by the unwary , be mistaken for Micrococci ; but any such illusion was at once dissipated by adding a drop of hydrochloric acid , which instantly dissolved the phosphate and restored the perfect transparency of the urine .
This acid has no effect on the turbidity caused by Microphytes .
These experiments therefore negative the conclusion that liquor potassse , or a temperature of 115 ' E. to 122 ' E. , or both conditions combined , have the power of exciting the generation of organisms in sterilized urine .
The effect of elevated temperature was also tested in another way .
I had by me twenty-nine preparations of fermentible liquids which had remained over from my previous experiments in 1873-74 .
These consisted of 15 alkalized hay-infusions , 5 pieces of boiled egg-albumen in water , 1 pieces of turnip in water , 2 diluted ascitic fluid , 1 blood with water , 1 albuminous urine , 4 pieces of meat or fish in water .
These had all been sterilized by the heat of boiling water two or three years ago , and were contained in large bulbs with long necks .
Ten of the hay-infusions were hermetically sealed ; the rest were all open to the air , under the protection of a plug of cotton-wool .
All possessed perfectly transparent supernatant liquids , and showed no signs of containing Organisms , nor of having undergone any fermentive or putrefactive changes .
These twenty-nine preparations were introduced into the incubator , and maintained at a constant temperature of 115 ' E. for two days , and then at a temperature of 122 ' E. for three days .
At the end of this period not one of them showed any signs of fertility .
The supernatant liquid in each bulb was quite transparent , and some of them which were opened for microscopic examination showed no traces of living organisms .
I can , however , fully confirm the statement of Dr. Bastian , that Bacteria , or certain kinds of them , grow and multiply freely in ( unsterilized ) urine , both acid and neutralized , when exposed to a temperature of 115 ' E. to 122 ' E.

