]\gt ; Hon. .
J. Strutt .
On in the Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , at the Hurlers , Professors Lloyd and Morrow and Mr. Dymond at nton Drew , and Messrs. H. Bolitho , H. Thomas and Captain Henderson in south-west Cornwall .
To Lord .
Wallis I also under ations , as they were ( ( enough to assist my iii1 allowi e to be made in stone the JMerry lIaidcns to view the ment to the the Distribution of in the Earth 's Crnst , on the Earth 's Heat .
By the Hon. R. J. , Fellow of Trinity ) ( Received Inrch30 , \mdash ; Read Apri15 , 1906 .
) Heat of the Moon .\mdash ; Summary of Conclusions 485 S Professor Rutherford* has given a calculation which sug.ests that there may enough lium in the earth to account for the uemperature radient observed near the surface .
rfhe question is of great interest from a cosmical point of view .
For if we find that the carth 's internal heat is due to radio-activity , and if we assume , as ) usual , this heat is due to some of the cause operative in the sun and stars , would follow that these latter are heated radio-active changes also .
Professor 's calculation was based on some data iven by Elster and Geitel on the amount of dium enation which diffused out from a samI ) of clay .
These data wer obtained at a time when the determination of minute amounts of radium was not well understood , are moreover to rive any general idea of the average amount -activity , ' p. 494 , Edition .
1906 .
] Crust , and the Earth 's Lternal Heaf .
of in the earth 's crust .
I have , therefore , made an exten sive ation of the amount of radium in various representative rocks .
This forms the subject of the present paper .
The results are very surprising .
Considerable detail will therefore be iven , in order to enable readers to judge whether there is any probability of these results substantially incorrect .
S of The earth 's crust , which is alone accessible to us , consists of neous rocks , and of sedimentary material which results from the action of geological chahges upon these rocks .
No doubt the radium content of the original igneous rocks might be inferred fairly well from the examination of a large number of sedimentary ones .
It is , , much more satisfactory to examine the igneous materials directly , for then they can be classed themselves as to their radium content .
I have examined a few sedimentary rocks , but do not attach much importance to them , and rely chiefly on ults obtained with original neous llaterial for the average radium content of the earth 's .
The results with regard to sedimentary rocks will be iven in a future paper .
I hope also to determine which of the numerous minerals contained in igneous rocks carry the.radium , a subject not in the present communication .
Meteorites have a special interest of their own .
A few determinntions have been made on them , and are incidentally included in this ) S3.\mdash ; Metlod of Radium in the rocks was atiyely determined by means of its emanation .
A solution of the rock was stored till the tion h mulated .
This latter was then extracted by , and introduced into an electroscope .
The increased rate of leak produced was a measure of the alnount of radium present .
This measul.e was made bsolute by through the same process with a uranium of known radium content .
In order to make certain of exbracting the emanation , it is essential to decompose the rock completely by chemical ency .
In the case of and metallic meteorites , this can be efected by SiJlution in hydrochloric acid , but in the case of siliceous materials , fusion with alkaline carbonate is necessary .
The standard procedure was as follows :ramlnes of the rock was bloken up in an iron lnortar , and then finely .
ground in an one , until Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On in the Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , it would pass through a sieve of 90 threads to the inch .
This process could be carried out by an unskilled assistant in less than an hour , and ensured easy decomposition of rock .
Two hundred and fifty grammes of a mixture of anhydrous scdium and potassium carbonates was melted in platinum basin .
For this purpose the basin was surrounded with an extemporised furnace casing of asbestos millboard , and heated from below by means of a oas blowpipe .
The blowpipe was supplied with air from an automatic blowing apparatus worked by water pressure .
As soon as the carbonate was melted , the rock powcier was thown on to its surface in snlall portions at a time until it had all ) added .
The fusion usually continued for about an hour after all effervescence was over .
The residue was then ested with hot water to dissolve out the alkaline silicates and carbonates .
The portion insoluble in water was dissolved in hydrochloric acid .
Some silica always separated from the acid solution , and was allowed to remain floating in it .
The two solutions , aqueous and acid , were set aside in separate flasks closed with indiarubber stoppers .
Mixing them was ayoided , because of the bulky and unmanageable precipitate of silica which would have been down .
with hydrofluoric acid has some advant over the use of sodium carbonate .
It requires , however , more minute pulveris tion of the material , and is more costly in practice to difficulties of and .
After one or two trials its use was abandoned .
The two flasks , the respective solutions were ] lowed to stand for deterlninate number of days .
the minimum .
More colnmonly a fortnight or weeks was allowed .
During this time , any radium contained in the rock was generating emanation .
After three weeks the quantity has practicallyleached a maximum .
The fraction this maximum generated in any lesser period could be calculated from the equation for the rise of activity , inally given Rutherford and Soddy .
I described a method for quantitatively .
the emanation in ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 76 , 1905 , p. 89 .
An improved modification of that nlcthod h been employed in the investigation .
The flask ( see figure ) CJntains the solution .
The accumulated emanation is at first partly dissolved , partly contained in the air which occupies the upper part of the flask .
flask is uncorked and attached to the lower end of the condenser as rapidly as possible , so as to avoid loss of emanation .
A is then boiled to expel radium emanation .
The steam which issues is ndensed in and drops back .
The air with emanation passes out 06 .
] Crust , and the FIG. 1 .
into the gasholder , displacing the water which previously filled it .
This boiling is continued for one hour .
At the end of that , the cooling water is run off from the jacket of B. Steam is allow ed to pass so as to wash out all air and emanation from A and from the connecting tubes into C. The indiarubber connection at is then nipped , the burner under the flask immediately withdrawn .
In this way the emanation is collected in the gasholder .
It merely remains to transfer it to the electroscope when cold .
The latter is exhausted , and the emanation allowed to pass into it through the stop-cock and a drying tube .
Air is then admitted to the electroscope up to atmospheric pressure .
After an interval of three hours , to allow the active deposit to form , the rate of leak is read .
The normal leak of the electroscope was repeatedly determined in the course of the investigation .
* To do this conveniently , it is very desirable to have the pinchcock attached to a firm support , so that it can be screwed up with one Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On Radium in the 's [ Mar. 30 , The are ) values scale-divisions per hour , 24 , , 241 , 24 , 23 , .
Mean , 23 nearly .
These values were taken soon after exhaustion of the electroscope and admi isio of If the left closed , the leak was found to have risen apprecial ) , after ) lapse of a dny .
A similar effect been noticed at the Cavendish , and is , 1 believe , under investigation there .
It does not come into question here , since time neyer allowed for it to enter .
In work of this kind , the effecb to be looked for is small , it is most necessary to make certain that the emanation really comes from material under investigation , and not from an .
extraneous source .
I was deceived in this way in that mercury off an emanation .
In the present case , every precaution was taken .
The laboratory hsd never had radio-active materials introduced into it .
Solutions of the employed were separately tested for emanation , after they had stood closed for a fortnigbt , with the following results:\mdash ; Rate of leak .
Sodium carbonate , 250 ramlnes Potassium carbonate , Hydrochloric acid , 500 .
Water 2000 ( -.c .
In none of these cases does the leak measurably exceed that normal to the electroscope .
It 1nay , , bc concluded that tlJe r used to decompose the rocks responsible for the emanation obtained .
Cambridge tap water was used to ulake the solutions and to fill the gasholder ) .
water inally contains dissolved emanation , as Professor J. J. Thonnson has shown .
It was therefore carefully boiled to expel this before use .
The test iven above was made on water which already been boiled setting it aside , shows that no measurable quantity of enlanation is generated by dissolved matel.ial when the supply has been expelled .
The ( boiled ) water in the asholder was after each expel.iment .
uthcrford and have ined the radium content of lerals in absolute measure .
They find that the radium associated with 1 gramtle of uraninm is ranlme .
I use this value rather than own they tested the production of their standard , while I had no test puriCy of mine .
' Amer . .
Sci. , 1905 , p. .
Proc , p. 88 .
1906 .
] Crust , and The uranium minerals used for standardisation were Torbernite ( copper uranium phosphate ) containing 60 per cent. ( per cent. uranium ) and pitchblende , .
cent. ( per cent. uranium ) .
The rate of leak due to the emanation produced by a few milligrammes of each of these in } was determined .
From this the quantity of radium was deduced , which would in an produce emanation to give a leak of one division per hour .
This is the constant given in the last column of the following table .
Standardisation Experiments .
Rate of leak* Mineral .
inema ttConstant Percentage of due to uranium ( metal ) .
one dny .
same sample Torbernite . . . . .
Torbernite same sample Pitchblende same sample 624 *Corrected for normal leak of the electroscol ) The mean value for the constant is , or in other words a leak equal to one scale-division per hour represents gramme of radium in the sample examined , if the latter has had time to produce its maximum amount of emanation .
Two specinlen determinations will now be given in detail , the first of granite from the Cape of Good Hope , the second of oliyine rock from the Isle of Rum .
These are respectively representative of high and low radium content .
Granite , 50 grammes.\mdash ; Solutions stood from March 21 to March 26 , per cent. of the maximum amount of emanation .
Scale-div .
per .
Corrected .
Emanation from acid solution 103 Emanation from alkaline solution 31 Total scale-div .
per hour .
Thus the equilibrium amount of emanation would ooive scale-divisions per hour , or per gramme of rock scnle-divisio1ls per hour .
Th gramme of rock contains gramme or gramme radium .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On Radium in the Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , Olivine of rammes.\mdash ; Solutions stood from January 31 to February 19 , giving practically the equilibrium amount of emanation .
Scale-div .
per hour .
Corrected .
Emanation from acid solution Emanation from alkaline solution Total .
scale-div .
per hour .
One gramme of rock would scale-division per hour , and contains gramme radium .
This last exalnple represents , as mentioned above , nearly the lowest radium content encountered neous locks .
It will be noticed that the leak produced by the emanation is , even in this unfavourable case , about half that normal to the electroscope , and is , therefore , quite well marked .
It will be noticed also that the alkaline solution contains only a small proportion of the total radium present in the original rock .
sults for Rocks .
The results for neous rocks now be iven in tabular form and in order of content ( see next ) .
It will be observed that , in general , rocks like , with a high of silica , are richer in lium than basic rocks .
The rule , however , is by no means Uranium ores occur several of the rocks examined ; thus the granites .
Nos. 2 and 6 occur near the pitchblende bearing yeins were worked at Wheal Trenwith , St. Ives .
The syellite rocks , Nos. 3 , 8 , and 11 also contain local deposits of uranium minerals .
These various rocks are fairly rich in radium , but do not stand in a class themselves .
Tfius the concentration of lium in such deposits is extremely local , and cannot disturb any general conclusions as to the total amount of radium in the earth 's crust .
Confirlnatory of this conclusion is the fact that the temperature gradient at Wheal Trenwitl ] , St. Ives , is quite Considerable quantities of occur in mine , but are evidently insufficient to cause isturl)ance i the distribution of temperature .
* See Prestwich , ' Controverted Questions in Geology , p. 216 .
Crust , the feteorites .
Determinations have been made on one stony meteorite , on three samples meteoric iron , and on a sample of native iron from Ovifak , Disco Island , Greenland .
The quantities available have been ions , and are entered on the list of results .
Where the radium is entered as , it is to be underBtood that no leak was obtained which could clearly be distinguished from that normal to the electroscope .
It will be observed that the stony meteorite contains about as much radium as those basic terrestrial rocks , which it resembles in eneral composition .
No evidence was obtained of the presence of radium in iron meteorites .
The Greenland iron contains a little radium .
This was probably present in the siliceous material contained in this iron , which had been filtered off , decomposed by fusion and added to the main solution .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On in the Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , Quantity taken .
Radium per grn Stony lleteoric iroll .
gusta hnta C iron S jat .
If be the mean mass of radium per cubic centimetre in the earth , the heat production of radium per gramme per second , then the total heat production must be , per second , If be the thermal conductivity of the surface rocks , then the total outflow of heat per second will be where ( is the temperature radient near the surface , as observed experimentally .
If the ealth is in a thermally steady state , then these expressions will be equal , i. e. , or For I take the value For the temperature adient 1 F. in feet , or , in C.G.S. system , One gramme of radium calories per hour .
This g)ives for the value , the 's radius , Thus If , therefore , we assume the earth to be in therlual equiliblium , then , even if the whole of the internal hcat is due to dium , the mean quantity per cubic cannot much exceed boramme per cubic See Prestwich , .
cit. .
cit. 1906 .
] , and the Heat .
ceutimetre , aJways that the heat production of radium is not materially diminished under the conditions prevailing inside the earth .
Rutherford , *taking somewhat different values for the constants involved , ve the value , equivalent to gramme per cubic centimetre .
It will be observed that all the neous rocks examined , without exception , contain far more radium per cubic centimetre than this .
The poorest of all , Greenland basalt , contains more than 10 times as mueh ; au average lock something like 50 or 60 times .
The question must be faced : Why has not the earth a tenlperature gradient far larger than that observed ?
The calculation given aboye assumes , \mdash ; ( 1 ) That the earth is in thermal equilibrium , i.e. , that the amount of heat which escapes per second is equal to the produced in time .
( 2 ) That no other source of internal heat than radium exists .
( 3 ) That gramnle of radium produces as much heat inside the earth as at the surface .
As to the first sumption , to suppose that the earth is cooling only ravates the di.fficulty .
To assume that it is getting hotter is an explanation not likely to be regarded with favour .
I have not yet considered it quantitatively .
As to the second sumption , there can be little doubt that a quantity of uranium proportional to the amount of radium exists in the rocks .
Moreover , a trace of thorium is not improbably present .
These sources of heat are not likely to be important , as compared with radium .
There is , too , the possibility of the radio-activity of ordinary materials .
If , however , heating effect from them is assumed , of the order of magnitude to be expected from the ionisation they boive , a temperature ooradient would result like 1000 times larger than that observed .
I think this is conclusive against the theory that they have a genuine radioactivity of this order of magnitude .
There remains the third assumption , stated above .
This cannot be passed over so htly as the others , but will be more conveniently discussed later .
I shall suppose for the moment thst it is justified , and the earth cannot contain more on the than gramme of radium per cubic centimetre .
For surface rocks the experiments show that per cubic *Loc .
cit. Too little to be detected in the ordinary course of analysis .
See ' Nature , ' December 21 , 1905 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
On in tloe Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , cen timetre is a representative value .
is , if anything , an understatement .
Thus more than about 1/ 30 of the earth 's volume can consist of material similar to that encountered on the surface .
This gives a depth of about 45 iles for the rocky crust , the total absence of radio-active material within .
I shall next consider the distribution of temperature in a crust of this thickness .
The curvature of so thin a crust is relatively small , and may , without appreciable sacrifice of accuracy , be arded .
Let be the depth at any point , measured from the outer surface , the quantity of radium per cubic centinJetre , the heat developed in one second by 1 gramme of radium , the temperature at the depth , and the thermal conductivity .
Then the equation of conduction is which gives by integration ' where and are constan ts .
If the surface of the earth be assumed to be at C. , then when If be the thickness of the crust , , when .
This is clear , since the temperature must be a maxirnum at the inner boundary of the crust .
The terior core , free from radium , must be at a uniform temperature throughout .
these values we get and Hence the numerical values adopted in this paper , .
The curve appended shows this distribution of temperature graphically .
The maximum temperature at the bottom of the crust will be here .
This gives tenlperature considerably below the melting point of No doubt the assumption of constant conductivity at all temperatures is unsatisfactory feature this calculation .
It is difficult to know what other assumption to make , bowever .
Some experiments of Lord Kelvin and Mr. Erskine Murray ( ' .
Soc , vol. ) seem to indicate a diminution of conductivity with 1906 .
] Crust , and the 's lnternal Heat .
Depbh les .
FIG. 2.\mdash ; Calculated distribution of in earth 's interior .
This result has been obtained on the proyisional unptio that the heat production of radium is the same throughout the earth 's crust as mder surface conditions .
In justification of this , a paper by Mr. W. may be referred to .
The activity of radium emanation and its products are shown to be substantially the same at temperatures of as at he ordinary temperature , though evidence was obtained of a slight change of activity in one of the products .
Thus there is no reason at present to think that notable change of activity sets in before is reached .
I wish to express myself with some reserve on this subject .
Further experiments might conceivably show a rapid loss of activity as this temperature was approached .
In that case the conclusions here drawn as to the earth 's internal condition would require modification .
I was inclined at first to think it incredible that the earth 's crust could have so small a thickness as 45 miles , and was therefore much interested to hear that Professor Milne had come to a substantially identical conclusion , from a study of the velocity of ation of earthquakes through the earth 's interior .
He gives miles as the thickness .
This is quite On the other hand , Mr. C. H. Lees found the thermal conductivity of window glass to increase with temperature ; and at high temperatures rock magmas must approach the quality of glass ; indeed , they sometimes even retain that quality on cooling ( obsidian and pitchstone ) .
The mean thermal conductivity of rock cannot be much more than that assumed , for otherwise the internal temperature would not be high enough to produce phenomena .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 241 .
Bakerian Lecture , 1906 . .
R. J. Strutt .
Radium in the Earth 's [ Mar. 30 , consistent with my data , if ocks like boranite , rich in radium , are assumed to somewhat 1nore ) than I supl)osed , in taking the value ramme radium per cubic centimetre as representative .
Professor Milne expresses the opinion that a fairly abrupt transition occurs at a of miles , and that the matelial below that depth is fairly uniform the ) is entirely in rreement with the view put forward with to the earth 's interior .
chemical nature of the interior is a difficult .
It can scarcely consist mainly of iron , as has been very commonly supposed , from the analogy of meteorites .
feteoric iron is ) lyfi.ee from radium , as shown above , and in this respect answers the requirements well enough .
But if the stony exterior of the is but a small fraction of the whole volume , it cannot ve mnch influence on the mean density , which should be nearly equal to of the co1e .
The density of earth is much less than the density of iron .
6 .
of The of this paper have an interesting application to the moon .
What we can observe of the moon 's surface ests that it consists of rock like that on the eartl ] .
The moon is believed to have inally separated from the earth 's sul.face , and , therefore , consist of the same material as the latter .
Moreover , the density of the moon ) does not differ much from that of rock .
It seems leasonable to conclude from these facts that the moon consists almost of similar to that of the earth 's crust .
On this view , the temperature radiant of the moon should be very great in comparison with that of the earth .
The material of the mooll is taken to be some 30 times richer in radium than the ( mean ) material of the earth .
Her volume is about one-fiftieth that of the earth .
Thus the total heat production in the moon would be ) half of that in the earth .
This heat has to flow out one-sixteenth the area of the ) surface .
Thus the temperature adient at the moon 's surface should be reatert than at the earth 's .
In addition to this , is very less on the moon .
We conclude that the conditions which prevail there are more vourable to manifestation of the heat by volcanic upheaval .
This fully volcanic features so much more prominent on the moon than on the earth .
It has generalIy been supposed the lunar craters are extinct .
But 1906 .
] , and the 's lnternal Heat .
that view seems to rest chiefly on priori conviction that the moon has no internai heat .
As Professor W. H. ering has pointed out , all those observers who have made a special study of the moon have believed in the reality of changes occurring there .
* S 8.\mdash ; Sumr Conclusions .
1 .
Radium can easily be detected in all igneous rocks .
Granites , as a rule , contain most radium , basic rocks the least .
2 .
This distribution of radium is uniform enough to enable a fair estimate to be made of the total quantity in each mile of depth of the crust .
3 .
The result indicates that the crust callnot be much more than 45 miles deep , for otherwise the outflow of heat would be greater than is ) served to be the case .
The interior consist of some totally different material .
This agrees entirely with Professor Milne 's concluslon drawn from a study of the velocity of ation of earthquake shocks through the interior .
4 .
The moon probably consists for the most part of rock , and if so , its internal temperature must be far greater than that of the earth .
This explains the great development of volcanoes on the moon . .
Iron meteorites contain little , if any , radium .
Stony ones contain about as much as the terrestrial rocks which they resemble .
In conclusion , I must thank Mr. A. Harker , Mr. Clement , and Mr. A. Hutchinson for their kindness in providing me with various specimens of rock , and for information on geological matters .
'Nature , ' January 5 , VOL. LXXyII.\mdash ; A.

