1904 .
] Some TJses of Cylindrical Lens-Systems .
'Some Uses of Cylindrical Lens-Systems , including Rotation of Images .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. , D.Sc .
Oxon .
, F.R.S. , Lecturer in Physics , University College , Reading .
Received February 29 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1904 .
; It was , I believe , first shown by the late Sir George Stokes that if two similar cylindrical lenses are placed in contact , with their axes of curvature at right angles , the combination acts as a spherical lens , and that if the axes are not at right angles the system is equivalent to a cylindrical and a spherical lens combined , the spherical element disappearing when the axes are parallel .
I have recently had occasion to employ a modification of this arrangement which has proved of some practical utility as well as theoretical interest .
When , as in Sir George Stokes 's experiment , the two lenses are placed in contact , the combination acts as a spherical lens in every respect , that is to say , the formula - + \#151 ; = \#151 ; holds in regard to it .
u v f But when the two lenses are not in contact there is only one pair of conjugate points at which a real object will give a real image .
Reference to the ordinary focometer formula will show that this must be the case .
Let l be the distance between an object and a screen , and let a convex lens of focal length/ \lt ; \l be moved along the line joining them .
Then there must be two , and only two , positions of the lens at which it will form images on the screen , one at a distance from the object and v from the screen , and the other at a distance v from the object and u from the screen where u + v = l , u-v a , and l2 -U In either of these two positions a cylindrical lens of equal power will , if its axis be vertical , form sharp images of vertical lines , or of horizontal lines if its axis be horizontal .
If therefore we place one cylindrical lens with its axis vertical at a distance from the object and a second of equal power with its axis of curvature horizontal at a distance u from the screen , there will be produced on the screen a sharp image magnified vertically v/ u times , and horizontally u/ v times .
This method may be employed for comparing by photography curves plotted to different scales , or for increasing or diminishing the ordinates of a curve or record the scale of which is unsuitable .
Figs. 1 and 2 are an example of this latter use .
Fig. 1 is a record taken with the capillary electrometer of the discharge of the electrical organ of Malapterurus , the two sides of the Dr. G. J. Burch .
Some Uses of Cylindrical [ Feb. 29 organ being connected with the outer coatings of a pair of condensers , the inner coatings of which were connected with the electrometer .
Fig. 1 .
A full description of the experiment is given in the papers by Gotch and myself , from which this illustration is taken.* In order to find the E.M.F. indicated by such a record it is necessary to measure the subtangent\#151 ; or , in this case , the polar subnormal to the curve at various points according to the method described in my papers on the " Capillary Electrometer .
" !
The method is , however , inapplicable if the angles are too steep .
It occurred to me that if the ordinates could be diminished and the abscissae magnified by photography the angles might be brought within the measurable range .
Accordingly I fixed the original of fig. 1 at 56-25 cm .
from a photographic plate , with a cylindrical lens of + 12*5 cm .
with its axis horizontal at a distance of 17*5 cm .
, and a second with its axis vertical at a distance of 4375 cm .
The result is shown in fig. 2 .
The definition is remarkably good in the negative , Fig. 2 .
* 'Pliil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 187 , p. 347 ; * Proc. Boy .
Soc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 434 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , yoI .
183 , p. 81 ; ' Proc. Boy .
Soc. , ' yoIs .
48 , 59 , 60 , p. 388 , and yoI .
70 , p. 175 .
904 .
] Lens-Systems , including Rotation of Images .
ut the field of view is small .
The abscissae are magnified two and a alf times and the ordinates diminished in the same proportion , so that he total effect is the same as if the original photograph had been iken on a plate moving 25/ 4 times as fast , and the resulting curve an be easily analysed .
It should , however , be noted that fig. 1 , being a curve with polar o-ordinates , is not properly adapted for this process , which requires , o be accurate , curves with rectangular co-ordinates .
It serves , never-heless , to illustrate the method , and as the portion photographed iccupies not more than an angle of 2 ' of arc , the error involved is lardly noticeable although great enough to render it not worth while o spend time over a minute analysis of the modified curve .
It is not necessary that both lenses should .be of the same focal ength .
If they are , the image is magnified as much in one direction ls it is diminished in the other .
If it is desired to preserve the iimensions in one direction unaltered\#151 ; as , for instance , in comparing :he time relations of two electrical responses of different intensity\#151 ; ' i.g. , nerve under the influence of C02 , and in a normal condition\#151 ; one [ lens may be put midway between the object and the screen .
If m be the magnification required in the other direction , the focal length necessary for the other cylindrical lens is / = ^ an\lt ; ^ *tS distance from the object is l 1 +m In practice it is more convenient to employ a pair of lenses of rather more than the required power when close together , and to adjust the distance between them until the right magnification is obtained .
The image thus modified by the cylindrical system is projected on to the curve with which the comparison is to be made , and examined with a lens .
The principal difficulty is the smallness of the field of view , which is elliptical in shape , the major axis being limited by the diameter of the lenses and the ratio between the axes being as 1 : m2 .
Unfortunately the use of lenses of larger aperture introduces errors of chromatic and spherical aberration which spoil the definition .
Owing to the fact that each cylindrical lens has to be separately focussed , and that no image is formed until both are correctly adjusted , not only as to distance but also as to the direction of the axes of curvature , focussing is a matter of some difficulty .
I have found the following method answer very well:\#151 ; Two lines , one vertical and the other horizontal , are ruled , across the middle of a glass plate\#151 ; a spare negative answers very well , and the lines can be ruled with a needle on the film .
This is placed in the object holder .
The first cylindrical lens is inserted in its cell and the horizontal line focussed with it sharply on the screen .
The first lens 284 Dr. G. J. Burch .
Some Uses of Cylindrical [ Feb. 29 being removed , the second is inserted in the other cell and adjusted to focus the vertical line .
The first lens is then replaced in position and rotated till both lines are sharply focussed .
When three lenses are used , the two employed to obtain magnification must be contained in a sliding tube furnished with a pin working in a slot to prevent rotation .
In the preceding pages the axes of curvature of the two components of the cylindrical lens-systems are , in all cases , at right angles to each other .
Equally interesting properties are possessed by those systems in which they are parallel to each other .
Case I.\#151 ; Two equal convex cylindrical lenses set with their axes curvature parallel , and at such a distance apart that their principal foci coincide as in a telescope .
A clear and undistorted view of distant objects is obtained , but on rotating the object the image appears to rotate with equal angular ' velocity in the opposite direction , and on rotating the tube containing the lenses , the image appears to rotate with twice the angular velocity in the same direction .
The reason is obvious .
Suppose the axes of curvature are vertical , then there is no vertical deviation of the image-forming rays , and so far as its vertical components are concerned the virtual image coincides with the real object .
In the horizontal plane there is deviation .
The rays from the cylindrical objective cross as in a telescope before reaching the cylindrical eyepiece .
If , therefore , we focus the eyepiece so that the final virtual image is at the same distance from the eye as ' the real object , a clearly defined image will be produced , erect , but enantiomorphic , as if reflected in a plane mirror .
If the object is viewed through two cylindrical telescopes in tandem , then if either is rotated , the image rotates in the opposite direction , but if both are rotated together , the image remains stationary as in the case of two erecting prisms in tandem .
Two causes may disturb the sharpness of the definition , namely , deviation from exact parallelism of the axis , and error in adjusting the distances between the lenses , so that the horizontal components of the virtual image are not focussed at the same distance as the vertical .
If the two lenses are not of equal focal length the resulting images are clearly defined , but not symmetrical , being magnified or diminished in one direction and of natural size in the other .
Case II.\#151 ; Two cylindrical lenses with their axes of curvature parallel , the distance between them being greater than the sum of their focal lengths .
Such a system acts as a compound microscope , giving well defined images of objects situated at a certain distance from the objective .
904 .
] Lens-Systems , including Rotation of Images .
285 The same phenomena of rotation of the image on rotating the lens vstem are observable in this case as in the cylindrical telescope , but vdth this difference : the images , though sharply defined , are not Symmetrical , the object being magnified at right angles to the axis o urvature , and not magnified parallel to it .
The focal distance at which alone good definition is obtainable s that at which the virtual image is the same distance from the eye IS the object .
But to an astigmatic eye there are two distances at which the instrument gives perfect definition , the direction of the axis of curvature coinciding with the astigmatic axis of the eye m one case and being at right angles to it in the other The cylindrical telescope cannot by altering the focussing be m to project an image on a screen like an ordinary telescope .
To do that we must employ two cylindrical telescopes with their axes of curvature at right angles .
They need not both be of the same power , and , curiously enough , one may be situated inside the other without interfering with its action .
Polarised Light .
Another peculiarity of the cylindrical telescope is rather remarkable and extremely valuable .
As would be expected , rotation of the tube of a cylindrical telescope , though it rotates the image , is absolutely without effect as regards the polarisation of the ray .
There is , so far as I know , no other means of rotating an image without altering it in this respect , the ordinary erecting prism , whether silvered or unsilvered , introducing a difference of phase .
I have found the cylindrical telescope extremely useful in some experiments where this was important .
Note added March 12 .
If the axis of a telescope of which the magnifying power is m is moved sideways through an angle 6 , the displacement of the image is ( 1 \#177 ; m)6 , taking the upper sign if the image is inverted , and the lower sign if it is erect . .
In the telescope formed of two equal cylindrical lenses , parallel to the axis of curvature m\#151 ; -1 , and at right angles to it + .
Accordingly , if the axis of such a telescope is moved through an angle 0 in the plane of the axis of curvature , the displacement of the image is zero .
If it is moved in a plane at right angles to this the displacement is 2d .
And if the plane of movement makes an angle of 45 with the axis of curvature , the image appears to move at right angles to it .
The effect of rotating the telescope about its axis while moving it m azimuth is very striking .
A cylindrical telescope may be made with one lens as fo ows .
286 Prof. A. Gray and Mr. A. Wood .
Effect of a [ Mar. 12 plane mirror is set at right angles to the optic axis in the princina focus of a cylindrical lens .
Between the lens and the eye a plate o unsilvered glass is placed at such an angle as to reflect the rayj from some distant object through the lens on to the mirror , whence the^ are reflected once more through the lens into the eye .
The unsilvem reflection is not necessary if the eye is held at some considerably distance from the lens .
In such an arrangement the image is not enantiomorphic , the effect of the cylindrical lens-system being neutralised by that of the mirror , but the image rotates when the lent is rotated exactly as in an ordinary cylindrical telescope , and the plane of polarisation is not affected by the rotation .
On the Effect of a Magnetic Field on the Pate of Subsidence of Torsional Oscillations in Wires of Nickel and Iron , and the Changes Produced by Drawing and Annealing .
" By Professor Andrew Gray , F.E.S. , and Alexander Wood , B.Sc. Received March 12 , \#151 ; Read March 17 , 1904 .
On May 15th , 1902 , we communicated to the Royal Society a paper entitled " On the Effect of a Longitudinal Magnetic Field on the Internal Viscosity of Nickel and Iron , as shown by Change of the Rate of Subsidence of dorsional Oscillations .
" We described in that paper the results of experiments on the rates of subsidence of torsional oscillations in nickel and iron wires in fields of different strengths , and showed that the effect of the field , or , more properly , of the magnetisation of the wire , is to increase the rate of subsidence in nickel and to diminish it in iron .
In nickel , it was pointed out , this effect rose to a maximum at a certain field , from 100\#151 ; 180 C.G.S. , according to the initial amplitude , and thereafter diminished as the field was increased ; while in iron the effect was in the main all produced at a field of about 160 C.G.S. or rather less , and increased only slightly with further increase of field intensity .
The experiments described in the present paper are referred to at the end of the former one as in progress , and some account of their results is given ; and we propose now to describe them a little more in detail .
Experiments on the Effect of Drawing Down and of Annealing a Nickel Hire.\#151 ; A piece of the nickel ware formerly experimented on was tested for subsidence in the manner already described , and then drawn down , by being passed through a draw plate , from the diameter 1'4 mm. to 0-775 mm. The results are illustrated by fig. 1 .
Take first curve I of that figure .
It has for ordinates the differences between

