X. " 1 On a Method of graphically representing the Dimensions and Proportions of the Teeth of Maammals .
" By GEORGE BUSK , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1870 .
Of all the hard parts of animals , the teeth , more especially for palkeonltological purposes , undoubtedly afford the most constant and the most generally available characters .
Any plarn , therefore , by which the study and ready comparison of these organs may be facilitated and simplified cannot fail to be of some use to the zoologist and paleontologist .
Having myself found the method I am about to describe convenient in many instances , more particularly in the case of fossil mammals , I have been led to believe , by the representations of several to whom it has been communicated , that it might be found useful by others , and consequently , though at first sight but a triflinrg matter , worthy of a place in the ' Proceedings ' of the Society .
The characters afforded by the teeth are derived from their number , proportions ( absolute and relative ) , and pattern .
In many cases the pattern of the teeth must undoubtedly be taken into account ; but in a very great number it will be found that the number and proportions , more particularly of the premolars and molars , are sufficient for the purpose of diagnosis , or , at any rate , that a knowledge of these particulars alone will reduce the necessity for further comparison within a small compass .
A good illustration of this is afforded in the smaller Felidse , in which , owing to their high specialization , the pattern of the teeth is in the main so very closely alike as to render it of very little assistance in diagnlosis , though not altogether .
The statement of the particulars above mentioned , in words or figures when numerous comparisons are needed , is tedious and laborious to both writer and reader ; and even in the most carefully arranged tables it is difficult without close attention to perceive at once differences which though minute are , from their constancy , important and in fact necessary for the diagnosis of nearly allied forms .
My plan may be termed one for the graphic or diagrammatic representation of the absolute and relative or proportional dimensions and number of the premolar and molar teeth , or of those constituting the molar series , and which have appeared to me in most cases sufficient for the purpose in view .
But of course the incisors and canines might be included in the scheme if thought requisite .
The method in which these " odontograms " are prepared will be at once obvious on inspection of the accompanying examples .
Each horizontal line in the figures , which represent the maxillary and mandibular molar series of a species , corresponds to a single tooth , whose extreme length or antero-posterior diameter is indicated by the extent of the lighter shade , and its extreme breadth or transverse diameter by the darker shade .
Both dimensions are , of course , measured from the same base-line .
The respective measurements , which may be taken with a pair of sharppointed caliper-compasses , having been pricked out upon the equidistatit horizontal lines , the points showing the length and breadth of each tooth are connected by straight lines , and a sort of figure is thus obtained which , in nearly all cases , will be characteristic of the genus or family , and in many instances sufficient to determine the species also .
In some cases , as for instance in Canis and Viver ra , the odontograms are at first sight so nearly alike that recourse must be had to the pattern of the teeth in addition , as before alluded to .
In order to render figures of this kind easily comparable inter se , it is necessary that they should be drawn upon some common scale for the distance between the horizonal lines .
This is , of course , entirely arbitrary , all that is requisite being that it should not be too great nor too small .
The aceompanying odontograms are drawn upon a scale of '25 inch= 6'35 mnm .
, which appears convenient for the purpose ; and is suitable for all teeth of the dimenisions that readily admit of this mode of definition , that is to say , which are neither too large , as those of the Elephant , nor too small , as in the smallest mammals .
Moreover , if the figures are drawn upon ruled paper , the actual measurement of the size of the teeth can be read off at sight ; and with this object I have employed paper ruled to a scale of -05 inch .
The examples selected to show the application of the method above described have necessarily been limited to a very few .
They include figures of the delntition of the Lion and Tiger , taken from the largest specimens of each species I have as yet met with ; but they afford a fair illustration of the way in which even a slight specific difference is brought out , and which , in the case of these animals , is almost confined to the lower teeth .
The three odontograrns of the genus Ursus represent the mean dimensions and proportions taken from numerous instances of each species , and they show at a glance the differences between them .
In these the small anterior premolars have been purposely omitted to save space .
The odontograms of Hycena are of the same kind .
The dentition of the genus Canis is exemplified by instances taken from the Wolf to the Fennec Fox , or from the largest to the smallest species , in order to illustrate the uniformity of the generic type throughout ; and amongst these forms , two will serve to show how the method may be used in palseontological research .
Plate IX .
fig. 13 represents the dentition of the fossil Fox described by Messrs. Durand and Baker from the Siwalik HIills , and fig. 14 that of the existing Canis bengalensis , which would thus appear to be the close representative of its ' supposed miocene progenitor , a resemblance which further comparison of the skulls only serves to render still more obvious .
The other fig , ures are introduced merely to indicate the variety of forms produced in this way from the measurements of the teeth Qf different genera .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE VIII .
PLATE IX .
Fig. 1 .
Felis leo ( max .
) .
Fig. 10 .
Canis lupus .
2 .
ligris ( max .
) .
11 .
aureus .
3 .
-jubata ( mean ) .
12 .
vulpes .
4 .
Ursus ferox ( mean ) .
13 .
bengalensis ( fossilis ) .
5 .
arctos ( mean ) .
14 .
( body ) .
6.maritimus ( mean ) .
15 .
zerda .
7 .
IHyena crocuea ( mean ) .
16 .
Sus scrofa ( ferus ) .
8 .
brunnea ( mean ) .
17 .
domesticus .
9 .
striata ( mean ) .
18 .
Egqcus caballus .

