VI .
" On Great Fluctuations of Temperature in the Arctic Winter .
" By J. J. MURPHY , Esq. Communicated by Professor W. THOMSON .
Received June 7 , 1861 .
It might be expected that the climate of the Arctic Regions during winter , in the absence of the sun , must be almost a dead level of intense cold ; but so far is this from being the case , that there is no other place and time where such great and rapid fluctuations of temperature have been observed .
This phenomenon is thus mentioned in the appendix to Wrangell 's account of his expedition to the Siberian coasts of the Polar Sea : " Sometimes in the middle of winter a wind from the S.E. by E. causes the temperature to rise suddenly from -24 ?
to + 25 ?
, or even + 32 ?
: previously to this , the barometer sinks as much as fourtenths of an inch in the course of eight hours .
The S.S.E. wind has no particular influence either on the barometer or thermometer .
" In " The Search for Sir John Franklin , " published in No. 1 of the Cornhill Magazine , ' occurs the following notice of the same phenomenon .
The 'Fox ' was beset by vast fields of ice somewhere in Baffin 's Bay : " December 28 .
During Divine Service yesterday thewindincreased , and towards the afternoon we had a gale from the north-westward , attended with an unusual rise of temperature : today the gale continues , with a warm wind from the N.N.W. " The Danish settlers at Upernavik , in North Greenland , are at times startled by a similar sudden rise of temperature .
During the depth of winter , when all nature has long been frozen , and the sound of falling water has long been forgotten , rain will fall in torrents ; and as rain in such a climate is attended with every discomfort , this is looked upon as a most unwelcome phenomenon .
It is called the warm south-east wind .
Now , if the Greenlanders at Upernavik are astonished at a warm south-east wind , how much rather must the seamen , frozen up in the pack , be astonished at a warm north-west wind !
Various theories have been started to account for this phenomenon ; but it appears most probable that a rotatory gale passes over the place , and that the rise of temperature is due to the direction from which the whole mass of air may come , viz. from the southward , and not to the direction of the wind at the time * .
" The cause here assigned appears to me quite insufficient : the rise of the thermometer that we have to account for sometimes amounts to 70 ?
or 80 ?
, which is equal to the difference between very warm summer weather and very hard frost in our climate ; and it is unexampled , and I think inconceivable , that any motion of a mass of air from warmer latitudes should produce so great an effect on the temperature ; certainly the cyclones that come from the West Indian Seas and pass over our islands have no effect in the slightest degree approaching to it .
What I regard as the true cause of the phenomenon is suggested , though not distinctly pointed out , in Dr. Kane 's Narrative , from which I will make a few extracts : ' January 29 .
A dark water sky extended in a wedge from Littleton to a point north of the Cape .
Everywhere else the firmament was obscured by mist .
The height of the barometer continued as we left it at the brig , and our own sensations of warmth convinced us that we were about to have a snow-storm .
*** We were barely housed before the storm broke upon us .
Iere , completely excluded from the knowledge of things without , we passed many miserable hours.o We could keep no note of time , and , except by the whirring of the drift against the roof of our kennel , had no information of the state of the weather .
*** We then turned in to sleep again , no longer heedful of the storm , for it had buried us deep in with the snow .
But in the meantime , although the storm continued , the temperatures underwent an extraordinary change .
I was awakened by the dropping of water from the roof above me ; and upon turning back my sleeping bag , found it saturated by the melting of its previously condensed hoar-frost .
My eider-down was like a wet swab .
I afterwards found that the phenomenon of the warm south-east had come unexpectedly upon us .
The thermometers at the brig indicated + 26 ?
, and , closer as we were to the water , the weather was probably above the freezingpoint .
When we left the brig-how long before it was we did not know the temperature was -44 ? .
It had risen at least seventy degrees .
* * of warm air ; but it may be easily accounted for by supposing that the form of the coast enables the warmth-producing wind to act at a special advantage in breaking up or driving away the ice , and liberating the heat of the waters .
These extraordinary fluctuations of temperature appear to be common to the whole of the Arctic regions .
Sir John Richardson , in his recent work on the Polar regions , states that " in Arctic America the phenomenon of warm winds ( teplot weter of Wrangell ) also occurs , and makes the month in which they happen , whether December , January , or February , warmer than the other two .
The same warm wind was probably the cause of the rain which the Russian sailors observed in Spitzbergen in the month of January .
" Rain implies a temperature several degrees above + 28 ?
, which is the temperature of the stratum of sea-water immediately below the ice .
But we know that in the Polar regions the temperature of the sea increases in descending , until a stratum is reached of the invariable temperature of + 39 ?
; and we may suppose that in these storms the warmer water of the deeper strata is brought to the surface , and warms the air sufficiently to admit of rain .
We know that powerful winds are able to produce temporary local currents , and it is easy to see that such a current , when produced in a limited space free of ice , will give rise to this kind of vertical circulation , or interchange between strata of different depths .
Such storms as these must be eminently favourable to the production of rain ; for the air that becomes warmed by contact with the comparatively warm water will , of course , take up watery vapour , and when it comes into contact with other masses of air that retain their usual intense cold , the vapour will be rapidly condensed ; so that we cannot wonder at heavy rains being a general concomitant of these storms .
Wrangell , in the passages I have quoted , says the warm wind in Siberia is preceded by a fall of the barometer .
Dr. Kane , on the contrary , noticed a rise before the storm above described ; it stood at " the extraordinary height of 30'85 .
" I cannot suggest any explanation of these facts .
I believe I have now stated the true cause of what is certainly a very remarkable phenomenon-fluctuations of temperature of enormous magnitude , occurring in a very short time , and in the absence of the sun .

