422 Mr. W. F. R. Weldon .
on the [ Nov. 27 , sound produced at the junction of the trachea with the air bag .
The origin of the sound at the bifurcation has been discussed above .
That a sound is produced in the breathing lung is proved by the experiment ; it seems probable that its cause is the passage of the air from the small bronchi into the vesicles .
In the living body , when there is stasis of air in a bronchus , the new sound formed at the mouth of the bronchus must be added to the pre-existing glottic and pulmonary sounds , and is no doubt one factor in the production of puerile or exaggerated breathing ; the increased rapidity of motion of the air in the healthy lung being another .
With regard to the production of the vesicular or as it may now be called the pulmonary sound ; if a lung be partially inflated and the bronchus tied it may be made to expand and contract freely by placing it in an air-tight vessel completely filled with water , and communicating by means of a flexible tube with a vessel containing mercury .
Raising or lowering the mercury causes the lung to contract and expand .
Under these circumstances there is no current of air through the bronchi ; as the vesicles are more extensible than the bronchial tubes , a slight current must enter them during expansion , but this appears to be insufficient to produce a sound , as none could be heard with certainty through a stethoscope applied directly to the lung .
The experiment shows that the pulmonary sound is not due to the movements of the tissues of the lung .
The results of the experiments now described are in accordance with the third theory quoted at the beginning of this paper , and the results of the vivisections performed on horses by Chauveau , Bondet , and Bergeon are confirmed by my experiments , which show that the vesicular sound is produced in the lungs , and not in the glottis or trachea .
The demonstration of the production of a new sound in bronchial obstruction I have not seen elsewhere .
III .
" Note on the Origin of the Suprarenal Bodies of Vertebrates .
" By W. F. R. Weldon , B.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 30 , 1884 .
In the early part of this year I was enabled , by the courtesy of the Royal Society , to examine some specimens of Bdellostoma Forsteri , collected by Mr. Sedgwick by means of a grant from the Society .
As a result of this examination , it appeared that the head kidney , described by Johannes Muller as connected , on the one hand with the segmental duct , and on the other by means of a branch of segmental tubules with the pericardium , had become modified in a very peculiar manner .
The 1884 .
] Origin of the Suprarenal Bodies of Vertebrates .
423 connexion with the Segmental duct , and the one or two glomeruli ( both shown by Wilhelm Muller to exist in the embryo of Myxine ) had disappeared , all that remained being a plexus of tubules , opening into the pericardium , but without any other opening whatever , and entirely unconnected with the rest of the kidney .
This plexus was closely surrounded by a network of blood-vessels , and the larger tubules contained altered blood-corpuscles .
In seeking for a parallel , among other Vertebrates , to this peculiar modification of a portion of the kidney , I was struck by the following facts:\#151 ; In Teleostei and Ganoids , Balfour has shown* that the head kidney is often replaced , in the adult , by a mass of lymphatic tissue , richly supplied with vessels .
Emery has studied the development of this tissue ; he finds in the embryo of many Teleostei , at an early stage , a single pronephric funnel , communicating with the segmental duct ; the rest of the " intermediate cell-mass , " being an undifferentiated blastema surrounding the duct .
In later development , only a portion of this tissue becomes converted into renal tubules ; the rest remaining through life as " lymphatic " tissue , richly supplied with vessels.f Now the Teleostei and the Cyclostomes are the only Vertebrates devoid of suprarenals ; and where these latter organs exist , they are always closely connected with the kidney , having , in reptiles and amphibians , a " vena portae , " corresponding to the " renal portal system " of the kidney , and being in male reptiles situated in the mesorchium , side by side with the longitudinal network of .
the testis .
It therefore seemed worth while to re-examine the development of the " cortical " part of the suprarenal bodies .
This I have done in Fristiurus , in Lacerta , and in th^ chick , finding it to be derived in each case from a portion of the mesonephric tubules .
In Lacerta muralis , the segmental vesicles , when they have become connected by the usual co -shaped cords with the Wolffian duct , become invaginated , and form glomeruli .
In the region of the future generative ridge , as each glomerulus begins to invaginate , before a bloodvessel enters it , its mesenteric border ( that opposite to the connexion with the oo -shaped segmental tube ) thickens , and becomes more than one cell thick , \#151 ; the rest of its wall being never , at any period of its existence , formed of more than a single layer of cells .
As the generative ridge develops , the thickened portion of each glomerulus increases , and gives rise to a process divided into two branches , one dipping ventralwards into the generative ridge , the other going dorsally between the kidney and the cardinal vein .
Both branches are at first histologically indistinguishable , being alike composed of rounded cells , pressed closely one against another .
* " Quart .
Joum .
Mic .
Sci. , " 1882 , and " Phil. Trans. , " 1882 .
t " Atti dell ' Academia dei Lincei , " 1882 .
-424 Origin of the Suprarenal Bodies of Vertebrates .
[ Nov. 27 , After a time , the dorsal branch , becomes separated from the rest being cut ofE by numerous small veins , which divide its substance into irregular trabeculae .
Its component cells also stain less easily than those of the ventral branch of the glomerular process .
These dorsal branches are , as shown by their position , and by their subsequent union with processes from the neighbouring sympathetic ganglia , the rudiment of the cortical portion of the suprarenal body , the ventral processes forming the longitudinal network of the testis , already described by Braun .
The close contact which exists , in the later stages of development , between the suprarenal rudiment and the various blood-vessels which run through it , has led previous observers to assume that the blastema itself originates by proliferation of the walls of those vessels .
The fact that the glomerular processes already mentioned may be easily recognised before the existence of these vascular branches , together with the great clearness and distinctness of the endothelium of the latter , which may always be seen as a sharply defined layer lying on the suprarenal substance , completely negative this view .
The later behaviour of the cortical blastema , and its union with the sympathetic , has been correctly described by Braun .
In the chick the development is , as might be expected , much modified .
About the end of the fifth day numbers of large , rounded , deeply staining cells appear in the tissue between the vena cava and the mesonephros .
These cells unite , during the sixth and seventh days , into clusters and finally into chains which acquire , on the eighth day , a connexion with the epithelium of adjacent glomeruli .
After this they behave in a manner practically identical with that of the corresponding cords in the lizard .
As in the lizard , so in the chick , the cells in question are from the first so perfectly distinct from the walls of the adjacent vessels that they can by no possibility be supposed to have been budded off from them .
In Pristiurus , the suprarenals are , as is well known , segmentally arranged along the dorsal wall of the cardinal veins .
Balfour describes their cortical tissue as arising from an impaired rod of meso-blast , lying at the root of the mesentery .
As to the origin of the rod itself , he says nothing .
Its actual origin I believe to be this : each gegmental tube , before the formation of a glomerulus , gives off a hollow bud , towards the root of the mesentery , so that it becomes Y-shaped , the foot of the Y representing the peritoneal funnel , one limb being the suprarenal bud , and the other the connexion with the segmental duct .
Almost immediately after its formation , the internal limb of the Y breaks off , and fuses with its fellows to form the unpaired rod at the root of the mesentery of which Balfour speaks .
The results of these observations we may sum up by saying that all 1884 .
] Mr. J. Gorham .
The Pupil-Photometer .
425 Vertebrates , except Amphioxus , have a portion of the kidney modified for some unknown purpose not connected with excretion ; that in Cyclostomes the pronephros alone is so modified , in Teleostei the pro-and part of the meso-nephros ; while in Elasmobranchs and the higher Vertebrates , the mesonephros alone gives rise to this organ , which has also , in these forms , acquired a secondary connexion with certain of the sympathetic ganglia .
IV .
" The Pupil-Photometer .
" By J. GORHAM , M.R.C.S. Eng. Communicated by Dr. WlLKS , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) It is agreed on all hands that the pupil of the eye owes its size to the quality of the light ; contracting and dilating according to the intensities of the light .
It is not agreed , however , if indeed it has ever become the subject of debate , that its magnitudes may be reciprocally the measures of those intensities .
There are cogent reasons for believing that they are so , and hence that an instrument which measures the pupil 's size , measures at the same time the light 's intensity .
The photometer was originally constructed for the former purpose only , and indicates the diameter of the pupil in hundredths of an inch .
The diameter is found by directing the instrument applied to one eye , with both eyes open , towards a sheet of white paper , or the sky ; the lid of the instrument is now revolved slowly until the two white disks just touch one another at their edges .
vTheL decimal fraction opposite the two apertures seen on the scale outside , indicates the diameter of the pupil in hundredths of an inch .
On examining hourly for several consecutive weeks the light of the day reflected from a given small area of the sky , certain recurring periodicities were observed in the pupil 's magnitudes , and these are found to coincide with analogous alterations in the light 's intensity ; hence it was inferred that if the pupil owes its size to the intensity of the light , it became from that very fact a measure of that intensity .
It is the object of the paper to substantiate this by experiment .
To use the instrument for testing light of different intensities we first set the pupil to a light of a given intensity by using a S ugg 's standard candle .
This is placed at a distance of one foot from the eye , with a white surface close behind it , in a darkened room .
The diameter of the pupil is now taken under the stimulus of the candle flame , and its measure is read off on the scale of .
the instrument .
My own pupil , when impressed with such a light , measures invariably the 0T5 inch .
We now place four such candles at two feet from the eye , when the

