84 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
[ June 15* alloy or a mineral , only those have recommended themselves to mo which depend npon the use of solutions ; and for the reason that most alloys are not homogeneous , and the portion of a metallic electrode exposed to the action of the spark is volatilised from one point , and is too minute in quantity to represent the composition of the mass .
Now , the composition of a solution represents in every part the composition of the entire mass dissolved ; it is , therefore , quite unimportant how small a fraction of it is used for the purpose of obtaining the spectrum of its constituents .
It is a remarkable fact that at the present time we know little or nothing of the sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction under various conditions , notwithstanding that such knowledge is absolutely necessary for the purpose of giving stability to numerous theories and arguments which are based on spectrum observations .
I have made some experiments in this direction by determining the extent of dilution which serves to modify in various ways the spectra of solutions of metallic salts , and that which finally causes the extinction of the most persistent line or lines .
The sensitiveness of the reaction varies with different elements and with the period of exposure , the intensity of the spark , and other conditions ; I have no difficulty whatever , when working in the manner here indicated , in recognising spectra yielded by solutions which contain no more than ToVoth of a per cent , of calcium , silver , copper , and i o gooth of a per cent , of manganese .
It is necessary , however , for me to withhold a full account of my experiments until I have determined the wave-lengths of the lines in the various Spectra under observation , for it is quite impossible to describe the changes in the spectra without reference to accurate measurements of the metallic lines .
For some time past Mr. W. E. Adeney has been working in conjunction with me at these determinations , and I hope with as little delay as possible to have the honour of submitting to the Royal Society all details here omitted , both with regard to these new methods of analysis , and the wavelength determinations .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Metallic Lines as seen in Overexposed Photographs of Spectra .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received May 19 , 1882 .
In preparing series of photographs of metallic elements when their spectra are obtained by the action of a condensed spark passed between metallic electrodes , I have been very careful to ascertain the exact period of exposure of the sensitive plate to the rays , which will bring 1882 .
] On the Reversal of the Metallic , out the most characteristic lines without the additional diffused rays of the air-spectrum ; at the same time very delicate and feeble air-lines ATe adequately shown .
This has always been accomplished by making a series of comparative exposures .
With gelatine emulsion dry plates great latitude in exposure is capable of yielding perfectly satisfactory photographs .
An under-exposed plate is not easy to develop , in order that the usual density for the strong lines as seen in a good negative may be gained .
The air-lines are generally very feeble or altogether omitted .
An over-exposed plate is likewise difficult to develop ; it yields a thin flat image , and more or less marked indications of a continuous air-spectrum are seen .
Over-exposure , even when not excessive , is liable to cause strong lines to appear reversed .
I have mentioned in my paper " Notes on .Certain Photographs of the Ultra-Violet Spectra of Elementary Bodies " ( " Journal of the Chemical Society , " vol. xli , p. 89 , 1882 ) , that sometimes lines appear reversed in one photograph , but not in another .
This did not seem at all likely , or even possible , to be caused by over-exposure , because the two periods differed only by a minute ; but 1 have small doubts now on the matter .
The conversion of what is .called a negative into a positive image by excessive exposure has been already noticed by Mr. C. Bennett ( " British Journal of Photography , 1878 ) , by Captain Abney , who investigated the nature of the change / " Phil. Mag. " [ 5 ] 10 , p. 200 ) , occurring in the sensitive film , and by M. Janssen ( " Comptes K-endus , " 90 , pp. 1447\#151 ; 1448 ) .
In illustration of this phenomenon , I may mention a remarkable result I obtained on one occasion when photographing a landscape .
I endeavoured to secure a picture with detail in a shaded foreground , and a direct view of the setting sun , with mountains in the middle .distance , and strongly illuminated as well as dark clouds .
In one case I succeeded remarkably well , but in another plate the foreground was good , but the sun was completely reversed .
The negative image was .clear glass and the sun printed black .
What should have been a negative in the strong lights became a positive .
Again , by exposing a plate to the cadmium spectrum , the whole of the metallic lines were rendered distinctly , but with a flatness and want of density , the whole .of the strong air-lines at the least refrangible end of the spectrum were , however , completely reversed .
Any strong lines may be reversed by over-exposure without materially altering the appearance of the rest of the spectrum .
This is particularly the case with the lines of the metals magnesium , aluminium , and indium , but particularly so with magnesium .
The reversal takes place in the centre of the line , that is to say , where the radiation is most active .
Except by the method of comparative exposures , which I have always employed , it would be impossible to say whether a reversal was due to an absorbed ray or an over-exposed plate .
80 Experiments on the Value of the Ohm .
[ June 15 , M. Cornu has shown that the quadruple group of rays in the magnesium spectrum may become quintuple or sextuple , according to the increased intensity of the spark employed .
This is precisely what might happen if one reversal by over-exposure were followed by a second .
Such reversals might be looked for if under the conditions of the stronger spark the exposure of the plate were not shortened , because the first and third of the four lines are stronger than the other two , and they would therefore be the first and second to suffer reversal .
The reversal would split the lines in two , and hence produce the appearance of a sextuple group .
In order to ascertain whether this might readily occur in the magnesium spectrum , some observations were made with plates containing several photographs obtained by different periods of exposure .
Thus the first spectrum was the result of ten seconds , the second of half a minute , and others various times extending to half an hour .
The quadruple group was not affected in the way observed by M. Cornu , from which fact it would appear that the division of the lines was caused by a reversal which was the result of absorption of the central portion of the ray or rays .
In the two photographs obtained by the longest exposures , especially in the last , the triplet b ' between K and L became a quadruple group-by reason of the most refrangible line being split into two by a reversal , the cause of which was nothing more than over-exposure .
In the quadruple group previously mentioned the lines were totally " reversed or not at all .
This subject of reversal by over-exposure is-one well deserving the attention of those who are engaged in the study of solar physics .
Comparative exposures should be methodically employed to confirm the accuracy of observations made entirely by the aid of photographic representations of spectra .
Especially is this desirable when gelatine or other dry plates containing organic matter-are in use .
III .
" Experiments oh the Value of the Ohm .
" Part I. By R. T. Glazebrook , M.A. , Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of Trinity College , Demonstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge , and J. M. Dodds , B.A. , Fellow of St. Peter 's College .
Part II .
By R. T. Glazebrook , and E. B. Sargant , M.A. , Trinity College .
Communicated by Lord-Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The method of the experiments is a modification of those of Kirch-hoff and Rowland .
Two coils of copper wire of about 25 centims. radius , each containing

