273 1879.1 of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test .
results .
I have since learnt , however , that if the liqnid to be examined he dropped in slowly throughout , by which a longer time is occupied in the performance of the operation , the result becomes to a certain extent modified .
It appears as though the test under the influence of prolonged ebullition fails to possess the requisite stability .
In the case of Fehling 's solution used in an ordinary way I have long known that when in a diluted state , ebullition alone leads to the occurrence of change , unless an additional amount of alkali be introduced .
A certain strength of alkalinity is required to give the requisite stability to resist the effect of ebullition .
With the ammoniated liquid , it is to be remembered , a state of considerable dilution exists , viz. , to the extent of 120 in 1,000 .
The introduction of a larger amount of fixed alkali into the ammoniated liquid suffices to give it the power to resist the influence of the variation in the method of procedure referred to in conducting the analysis , and it is to make known the fact of the alteration being required , that this communication is presented .
If Fehling 's solution be used in the preparation of the ammoniated liquid , as I originally suggested , the amount of soda employed should be doubled to meet the requirements .
It was on account of Fehling 's solution being so well known a liquid , that I recommended the ammoniated test to be made from it .
Now that a modification has to be introduced , I may state that the copper liquid I have generally been in the habit of using as a sugar test is made with potash instead of soda , and contains a much larger proportion of alkali than what is present in Fehling 's solution .
It has appeared to me that the liquid thus constituted possesses the advantage of greater precision of behaviour , and it may be used for the preparation of the ammoniated test .
The following is the composition recommended:\#151 ; Cupric sulphate . . . . . . .
34 '65 grins .
Potassic sodic tartrate ( Rochelle salt ) . .
170 \#187 ; Potash ... . . . . .
170 " Water to 1 litre .
120 cub. centims. of this liquid are mixed with 300 of strong ammonia ( sp. gr. 0'880 ) and water added to a litre for the ammoniated test , 20 cub. centims. of which stand equivalent to 0*010 grm. of glucose .
XXIX .
" About some General Laws of Animal Life .
" By Nicholas Wagner , Professor of Zoology , University , St. Petersburg .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. [ Publication deferred .
]

