]\gt ; [ 713 ] .
On the Secular Changes in the Elements of the of Satellite revolving a Tidally distorted G. H. DARWIN , F.R. Received December 8 , \mdash ; Read December 18 , 1879 .
TABLE 0F CONTENTS .
Page Introduction .
714 I. THE THEOBY 0F THIB DsTUItBING FUNCTION .
S 1 .
Preliminary .
716 S 2 .
Notation.\mdash ; Equation of variation of elements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
717 S 3 .
To find spherical harmonic functions of Diana 's coordinates with reference to axes fixed in the earth .
722 S 4 .
The disturbing .
726 II .
SECULAR CHANGES 1N THE INCLINATION 0F THE ORBIT 0F A SATELLITE .
S5 .
The perturbed satellite moves in a circular orbit inclined to a fixed plane.\mdash ; Subdivision of the problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
729 S 6 .
Secular change of inclination of the orbit of a satellite , where there is a second disturbing body , and where the nodes revolve with sensible uniformity on the fixed plane of reference S 7 .
Application to the case where the planet is viscous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
740 S 8 .
Secular change in the mean distance of a satellite , where there is a second disturbing body , and where the nodes revolve with sensible uniformity on the fixed plane of reference 743 S 9 .
Application to the case where the planet is viscous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
744 S 10 .
Secular change in the inclination of the orbit of a single satellite to the invariable plane , where there is no other disturbing body than the planet . .
744 S11 .
Secular change of mean distance under similar conditions.\mdash ; Comparison with result of previous paper S 12 .
The method of the disturbing function applied to the motion of the planet . .
749 III .
THE PLANES 0F THE SATELLITE , AND 0F THE PLANET , AND THE1R SECULAR CHANGES .
S 13 .
On the motion of a satelIite moving about a rigid oblate spheroidal planet , and perturbed by another satellite .
S 14 .
On the smau terms in the equations of motion due directly to tidal friction .
770 S 15 .
On the secular changes of the constants of integration 784 S 16 .
Evaluation of , \amp ; c. , in the case of the earth 's viscosity . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
804 S 17 .
Change of independent variable , and formation of equations for integration .
808 IV .
INTBGBATION or THE DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS CHANGES 1N THE INCLINATION 0F OBBIT AND THE OBLIQUITY 0F THE ECLIPTIC .
S 18 .
Integration in the case of small viscosity , where the nodes revolve uniformly 810 S19 .
Secular changes in the proper planes of the earth and moon where the viscosity is small . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
817 S20 .
Secular changes in the proper planes of the earth and moon when the viscosity is large .
ael S 21 .
Graphical illustration of the preceding integrations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 22 .
The effects of solar tidal friction on the primitive condition of the earth and moon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SECULAR CHANGES 1N THE ECCENTRICITY ffHE ORBIT .
S 23 .
Formation of the disturbing function. . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 24 .
Secular changes in eccentricity and mean distance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 25 .
Application to the case where the planet is viscous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 26 .
Secular change in the obliquity and diurnal rotation of the planet , when the satellite moves in an eccentric orbit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 27 .
Verification of analysis , and effect of evectional tides. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
VI .
CHANGES 1N THE ECCENTRICITY 0F ORBIT . . .
S 28 .
Integration in the case of small viscosity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 29 : The change of eccentricity when the.viscosity is large . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
664 VII .
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION OF RESULTS .
S 30 .
Explanation of problem.\mdash ; Summary of Parts I. and II . . . . . . . . . . . . .
864 S 31 .
Summary of Part III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . .
867 S 32 .
Summary of Part , . . . . . . . .
871 -S 33 .
On the initial condition of the earth and moon . . . . . . . . . . . .
876 S 34 .
Summary of Parts .
and VI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
: . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . .
877 VIII .
REVIEW OF THE TIDAL THHiORY OF EvonuTIoN As APPL1ED To EARTH AND THE OTHEB MEMBEBS O SOLAR SYSTEM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . .
879 graphical of the effects of tidal friction when the orbit of the satellite is eccentric . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
lntroduction .
THE following paper treats of the effects of frictional tides in a planet on the orbi its satellite .
It is the sequel to three previous papers on a similar subject .
* The investigation has proved to be one of unexpected complexity , and this must my apology for the great length of the present paper .
This was in part due to fact that it was ) impossible to consider adequately the changes in the orbit of satellite , a reconsideration of the parallel changes in the planet .
Thus sol of the ground covered in the previous paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; had to be but as the methods here employed are quite different from those used before , ition has not been without some advantaga * ' On the Bodily Tides Viscous and Semi-elastic and on the Ooean Tides upon a Yiel Nucleus Phil. Trans. , Part I. , 1879 .
" " On the Precession of a Viscous Spheroid , and on the remote History of Earth , Phil Tr Part II .
, 1879 .
" " On Problems connected with the Tides of a Viscous Spheroid , Phil. Trans. , Pad IL , ctively .
These papers are hereafter to as " " Tides Preoess on , an " " Preoession and " " ' respe There is also a fourth paper , treating the subject from a different point view , No. 197 , of view , viz : nation of the Secular Effects of Tidal Friction by Graphical Nelbod Proc. Boy .
And lastly a fifth paper of more recent date , " " On the hioh Fluid Planet of Viscosity , attended by a Single Satellite .
ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
probably conduce to the intelligibility of what follows , if an explanatory outof the contents of the paper is placed before the reader .
Such an outline must of rse contain references to future procedure , and cannot therefore bc made entirely dligible , yet it appears to me that some sort of preliminary notions of the nature the subject will be advantageous , because it is sometimes difficult for a reader to the thread of the argument amidst the mass of details of a long investigation , ich is leading him in some unknown direction .
Part VIII .
contains a general review of the subject in its application to the evoluof the planets of the solar system .
This is probably the only part of the paper ich will have any interest to the general reader .
The mathematical reader , who merely wishes to obtain a general idea of the results , recommended to glance through the present introduction , and then to turn to rt VII .
, which contains a summary , with references to such parts of the paper as it as not desirable to reproduce .
This summary does not contain any analysis , and more especially with the physical aspects of the problem , and with the question the applicability of the investigation to the history of the earth and moon , but of urse it must not be understood to contain references to every point seems to worthy of notice .
I think also that a study of Part VII .
will facilitate the comprension of the analytical parts of the paper .
Part I. contains an explanation of the peculiarities of the method of the disturbing nction as applied to the tidal problem .
At the beginning there is a summary of the eaning to be attached to the principal symbols employed .
The problem is divided into veral heads , and the disturbing function is partially developed in such a way that it ay be applicable either to finding the perturbations of the satellite , or of the planet elf .
In Part II .
the satellite is supposed to move in a circular orbit , inclined to the fixed an of reference .
It here appears that the problem may be advantageously subided into the following cases : 1st , where the permanent oblateness of the planet is , and where the satellite is directly perturbed by the action of a second large and stant satellite such as the sun ; 2nd , where the planet and satellite are the only two dies in existence ; , where the permanent oblateness is considerable , and the tion of the second satellite is not so important as in the first case .
The first and of these cases afford the subject for the rest of this part , and the laws are found ich govern the secular changes in the inclination and mean distance of the satellite , the obliquity and diurnal rotation of the planet .
Part .
is devoted to the third of the above cases .
It was found necessary first investigate the motion of a satellite revolving about a rigid oblate spheroidal planet , perturbed by a second satellite .
Here I had to introduce the conception of a pair planes , to which the motions of the satellite and planet may be referred .
The oblem of the third case is then shown to resolve itself into a tracing of the secular anges in the positions of these two proper\ldquo ; planes , under the influence of tidal MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE SECULAR Iff friction .
After a long analytical investigation differential equations are found a rate of these changes .
Part Iy .
contains the numerical integration of the differential equations of and III .
, in application to the case of the earth , moon , and sun , the earth supposed to be viscous .
Part V. contains the investigation of the secular changes of the eccentrici the orbit of a satellite , together with the corresponding changes in the mode of motion .
Part VI .
contains a numerical integration of the equations of Part V. in the cam the earth and moon .
The objects of Parts VII .
and VIII .
have been already explain In the abstract of this paper in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , general considerations are adduced which throw light on the nature of the results found .
This general reasoning is not reproduced here , because it is incapable of leadi us to definite results , and it was only used there as a substitute for analysis .
I. THE THEORY OF THE DISTURBING FUNCTION .
S 1 .
Preliminary considerations .
In the theory of disturbed elliptic motion the six elements of the orbit may divided into two groups of three .
One set of three gives a description of the nature of the orbit which is described at any epoch , and the second set is required to determine the position of body at any instant of time .
In a speculative inquiry like the present one , whe19 are only concerned with very smaJl inequalities which would have no interest un their effects could be cumulative from age to age , so that the orbit might beo materially changed , it is obvious that the secular changes in the second set of elem need not be considered .
The three elements hose variations are not here found are the longitudes of perigee , the node , and the epoch ; but the quent investigation will affor materials for finding their variations if it be desirable to do so .
The first set of elements whose secular changes are to be traced .
are , acco rdin the ordinary system , the mean distance , the eccentricity , and the inclinat onodist orbit .
We shall , however , substitute for the two former elements , a : mean and eccentricity , two other functions which define the orbit equally we ; 11 the ffi these is a quantity proportional to the square root of the mean .
distance , and second is the ellipticity of the orbit .
The inclination will be retained as the element .
The principal problem to be solved is as foUows : , ls79 .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
planet is attended by one or more satellites which raise frictional tides ( either or oceanic ) in their planet ; it is required to find the secular changes in the of the satellites due to tidal reaction .
is problem is however intimately related to a consideration of the parallel changes bhe inclination of the planet 's axis to a fixed plane , and in its diurnal rotation .
It will therefore be necessary to traverse again , to some extent , the ground covered my previous paper " " On the Precession of a Viscous Spheroid the following investigation the tides are supposed to be a bodily deformation of planet , but a slight modification of the analytical results would make the whole licable to the case of oceanic tides on a rigid nucleus .
The analysis will be such the results may be applied to any theory of tides , but particular application will made to the case where the planet is a homogeneous viscous spheroid , and the sent paper is thus a continuation of my previous ones on the tides and lotation of a spheroid .
The general problem above stated may be conveniently divided into First , to find the secular changes in mean distance and inclination of the orbit of a telhte moving in a circular orbit about its planet .
Second , to find the secular change in mean distance , and eccentricity of the orbit of gatellite moving .
in an elliptic orbit , but always remaining in a fixed plane .
As stated in the introductory remarks , it will also be necessary to investigate the oular changes in the diurnal rotation and in the obliquity of the planet 's equator to plane of reference .
The tidally distorted planet will be spoken of as the earth , and the satellites as the oon and sun .
This not only affords a useful vocabulary , but permits an easy transition from quesns of abstract dynamics to speculations concerning remote history of the earth moon .
S 2 .
of variation of The present section , and the two which follow it , are of general applicability to the hole investigation .
For sons which will appear later it will be necessary to conceive the earth to have two satellites , which may conveniently be called Diana and the moon .
The kUowing are the definitions of the symbols employed .
The time is , and the suffix to any symbol indicates the value of the corresponding quantity initia ] , when .
The attraction of unit masses at unit distance is For the earth , mass in units ; mean radius ; density , or mass per unit , the earth being treated as homogeneous ; mean gravity ; ; Or , as to Part III .
, on a nucleus is sufficiently plastic to adjust itself to a form of equilibrium .
IDCCCLXXX .
the greatest and least moments of inertia of the earth ; if we el]ipticity they will be equal to angular velocity of diurnal rotat longitude of autumnal equinox measured along the ecliptic from a fixed poix the ecliptic\mdash ; the ecliptic being here a name for a plane fixed in space ; obliq of ecliptic ; the angle between a point fixed on the equator and the autm equinox ; the radius .
of any point measured from the earth 's centre .
For Diana , let\mdash ; mean distance ; mean motion ; eccentricity of orbit ; ellipticity of orbit ; longitude of perigee ; inclination of orbit to ecliptic ; longitude of node ; longitude of epoch ; mass ; ratio of earth 's mas Diana 's or true longitude measured from the node ; true longit measured from the autumnal equinox ; , so that , the radius vector measured from earth 's centre .
Also the ratio of the earth 's moment of momentum of rotation to the orbital motion of Diana ( or the and the earth round their common cent inertia .
For the moon let all the same symbols apply when accents are added to them .
Where occasion arises to refer merely to the elements of a satellite in general , unaccented symbols will be employed .
Let be the disturbing function as ordinarily defined in rks on phy astronomy .
Other symbols will be defined as the necessity for them arises .
Then the following are the well-known equations for the variation of the distance , eccentricity , inclination , and longitude of the node .
The last of these equations will only be required in Part Now let ; then if we substitute this value for in eac equations ( 1-4 ) , it is clear that the right hand side of each will involve a THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ffien let ( 5 ) or a homogeneous earth , and .
Thus if we put ( 6 ) . . . . .
( 7 ) is a time , being about for the homogeneous earth .
is also a time , being but 57 minutes , with the present orbital angular velocity of the moon , and the earth being homogeneous ) .
Then since , therefore ( 8 ) Again , since , therefore and since , therefore ( 10 ) Then substituting for in terms of in the four equations ( 1-4 ) , and using the transformations ( s-10 ) , we get , . . . .
( 11 ) and if the orbit be circular , so that .
( 13 ) ( 14 ) pheSe are the equations of variation of elements which will be used below .
The two ( 13 ) and ( 14 ) will only be required in the case where the orbit is circular .
The function only differs from the ordinary disturbing function by a factor , and so will be referred to as the disturbing function .
I will 1low explain why it has been convenient to depart from ordinary will show how the iame disturbing function may be used for giving the pertur ions of the rotation of the planet .
In the present problem all the both of satellites and planet , from tides raised in the planet .
The only case treated will be where the tidal wave is expressible as a spherical harmonic of the second order .
Suppose then that is the equation to the wave surface , superposed on sphere of mean radius Then the potential V of the wave , at an external point , must be given by Here is the density of the matter forming the wave ; in our case of a homogene earth , distorted by bodily tides , is the mean density of the earth .
( If we template oceanic tides , the subsequent results for the disturbing function must reduced by the factor , this being the ratio of the density of water to the density of the earth .
) Now suppose the external point to be at a satellite whose mass , radius vector , mean distance are .
Then if we put , and observe that have Where is the height of tide , where the wave surface is pierced by the satelli{ radius vector .
But the ordinary disturbing function for this satelite is this potential augmented by the factor , because the planet must be reduced to Hence our turbing function where is the height of tide at the place where the wave surface is pierced by Now let us turn to the case of the planet as perturbed by the attract on .
of same satellite on the same wave surface .
The whole force function of the act on the satellite on the planet is , by ( 16 ) , clearly equal to But if be the component angular velocities of the planet respectively , and if we may neglect compared with unity , the equatio motion may be written as was shown in section ( 6 ) of my previous paper on " " Precession Then since , we have by integration , Then substituting these values in the geometrioal equations , We have finally , These are the equations which will be used for determining the perturbations of planet 's rotation .
We now see that the same disturbing will serve for finding both perturbations .
It is clear that it is not necessary in the above investigation that should actu1 be a tide wave ; it may just as well refer to the permanent oblateness of the Thus the ordinary and nutations may be determined from these formulas S3 .
To find spherical functions of 's coordinates with reference to a Jixe , in the earth .
Let be reclangulal .
axes fixed in the earth , being the pole and AB equator .
Then let , and we have Again , if be Diana in her , and since , therefore Whence siu si a a Substituting these values in the first of ( 19 ) we have a cos b\mdash ; a sinb a a a a a b\mdash ; cos a Now , and a a a a a a b\mdash ; cos a A a b\mdash ; cos a a\mdash ; cos a a a a a a sinb sin2 A A co A A c\mdash ; cos A Then substituting in the expression for i\mdash ; cos Let Then THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ince M is derivable from by writing for , therefore it is also derivable writing for .
Hence is the same as , save that sines replace ines Again a a But a And a a Therefore sin . . .
( 21 ) For the sake of future developments it will be more convenient to replace the sines cosines in the expressions for the 's by exponentials , and for brevity the Wffl be omitted in the indices .
Then the same with the signs of the indices of the exponentials changed , the same with sign of second line changed , \mdash ; same with signs of the indices of the exponentials changed .
Now let ( 22 ) From these definitions it appears that and are two imaginary functions , which between the real values and , and and the node of the moves round .
Also let , the true longitude of Diana measured from the autumnal equinox .
Strictly speaking , when longitudes are measured from a fixed point in the ecliptic , but in the present investigation nothing is lost by regarding as zero ; S ( 12 ) , and in Part III .
, we shall have to introduce Then ( 23 ) The object of the present investigation is to find the following spherical harmonic hnctions of the second degree of , viz. : IDCCCLXXX .
Then by adding the squares of the first and second of ( 23 ) , we have From ( 20 ) we know that has the form , and the ; therefore has the form , the form .
Hence if we write for in we obtain .
Therefore from ( 24 ) we obtain . . . .
The appears on the left hand side because It is also easy to show that , It may be here noted ) , so that These five formulas ( 24 ) to ( 2S ) are clearly equivalent to the expansion of harmonic functions as a series of sines and cosines of angles of the form It remains to explain the uses to be made of these expressions .
S4 .
The disturbing function .
In the theory of the disturbing function the diff.erentiation with respect to the determine elements of the orbit of the disturbed body is an artifice to avol of the three component disturbing forces , by means of differentiation with THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
radius vector , longitude and latitude .
In the present problem we have to deterthe perturbation of a satellite under the influence of the tides raised by itself by another satellite .
Where the tides are raised by the satellite itself , the ments of that satellite 's orbit of course enter in the disturbing function in expressing state of tidal distortion of the planet , but they also enter as expressing the position he satellite .
It is clear that , in effecting the differentiations above referred to , we st only regard the elements of the orbit as entering in the disturbing function in latter sense .
Hence it follows that even although there may be only one satellite , in the evaluation of the disturbing function we must suppose that there are two ellites , viz. : one a tide-raising satellite and another a disturbed satellite .
In this place , where the planet is called the earth , the tide-raising satellite may be veniently called Diana , and the satelite whose motion is disturbed may be called moon .
After the formation of the differential equations Diana may be made ientical with the moon or with the sum at will , or the analysis may be made applito a planet with any number of satellites .
As above stated , unaccented symbols will be taken to apply to Diana , and accented Inbols to the moon .
The first step , then , is to find the tidal distortion due to Diana .
Let be the projection of Diana on the celestial sphere concentric with the earth , nd the projection of any point in the earth .
Let be the rectangular coordinates of and the rectangular oordinates of Diana referred to axes fixed in the earth .
-Then since are radii vectores , and are direction-cosines .
The tide-generating potential V ( of the second degree of harmonics , which will be lone considered ) at is given by cording to the usual theory .
Now by previous definition , ; so that ' ( 29 ) Then clearly Now assume that the five functions are expressed as a series of simple time-harmonics ; .it will appear below that this always be done .
We now have V express as the sum of five solid harmonics , \amp ; c. , each multiplied by a simple time-harmonic .
According to any theory each such term must raise a tide essible a surface harmonic of same type , and multiplied a simple time-harmonic of the same speed ; moreo each such tide must have a height which is some fraction of the corresponding librium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid , but the simple time-harmonic will in gen be altered in phase .
Now if be the equation to the wave-sul.face , corresponding to a rating potential , then when the spheroid is perfectly , where accor to the ordinary equilib1 theory of tides .
( It will now be assumed that we are dealing with bodily tides of spheroid ; if the tides were oceanic a slight modification would have to be intro In a frictional fluid , the tide will be reduced in height and altered in phase .
Let represent a funotion of the same form as , save that each simple harmonic term of xy is multiplied by some fraction expressive of reduction of of tide , and that the argument of each such simple harmonic term is altered in ph the constants so introduced will be functions of the constitution of the spheroid , of the speed of the harmonic terms .
Also extend the same notation to the functions of X , which occur in V. Then it is clear that , if be the equation to the complete wave corresponding to the potential V , This expression shows that is a surface harmonic of the second order .
Then by ( 17 ) we have for the disturbing function for the moon , due to Diana'e where is the height of tide , at the point where the moon 's radius vector pieroe wave surface .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBII OF A SATELLITE .
Bence in the expression ( 30 ) for , we must put Then by analogy with ( 29 ) , let ' we have ( 31 ) This is the required expression for the disturbing function on the moon , due to Diana 's tides .
So far the investigatiori is ut we now have to develop this function so as to make it applicable to the several problems to be considered : SECULAR CHAN IN THE INCLINATION OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
S 5 .
The perturbed satellite in orbit inclined to fixed plcme.\mdash ; Subdivision of the problem .
In this case , so that the funct and X ' , simply the direction cosines of Diana and the moon , referred to the axes head in the earth .
Hence , and the five formulas ( 24-8 ) give bhe functions .
In order to form the functions in gothic letters we must express these functions as simple time-harmonics .
The formulas ( 24 ) to ( 28 ) are equivalent to the expression of the five functions as a ries of terms of the type A .
Now is the angle between a pqint fixed on the equator and the autumnal equinox , and therefore ( neglecting alterations in the diurnal rotation and the precessional motion ) increases uniformly with time , being equal to constant , which constant may be treated as zero by a proper choice of axes , C. is the true longitude measured from the autumnal equinox , and is equal to , since the orbit is circular ; also may for the present be put equal to zero , without any loss of generality .
Then if in forming the expressions for the state of tidal distortion of the earth neglect the motion of the node , the five functions are expressed as a series of simple time-harmonics of the type A .
MR. G. H. DARWIN .
ON THE SECUhAB CHANGE8 IN The corresponding term in the corresponding gothic-letter function will KA , where is the fraction by which the tide is reduced is the alteration of phase .
It appears , from the inspection of the five formulas ( 24-8 ) , that there are tideS seven speeds , viz. : , , The followi schedule gives the symbok to be introduced for reduction of tide a alteration of phase or lag .
Semi-diurnal .
Diurnal .
Fortnight Slow .
Sidereal .
Fast .
Slow .
Sidereal .
Fast .
Speed . . . . .
Fraction of equilibrium tide .
Retardation of phase or lag . .
The gothic-letter functions may at once be written down ffom ( 24-8 ) .
Thus , . . .
( 9 same , with second line of opposite sign . . .
( 3 same , with second line of opposite sign . . . .
The fact that there is no factor of the same kind as in the first pair of ( 36 ) from the assumption that the tides due to the motion of the nodes of the orbit the equilibrium tides unaltered in phase .
The formulas for , are found symmetry , by merely accenting all the symbols in the five formulas ( 24-8 ) for functions .
In the use made of these formulas this accentuation ] ] be dee1n be done .
At present we shall not regard as being accented , but in S 12 and in Part III .
shal have to regard as also accented .
We now have to evelop the several products of the functions multiplied by 1 funotions .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Before making these multiplications , it must be considered what are the terms are required for finding secular changes in the elements , since all others are effiuous for the problem in hand .
terms are clearly those in which and are wanting , and also those where occurs , for these will be wanting in when Diana is made identical with the It follows therefore that we need only multiply together terms of the like .
In the following developments all superfluous terms are omitted .
Semi-diurnal terms .
These are If we multiply ( 24 ) ( with accented symbols ) by ( 32 ) , and ( 25 ) ( with accented mbols ) , and subtract the latter from the former , we see that disappears bm the expression , and that , First line of ( 24 ) second of ( 32 ) Second of ( 25 ) first of ( 33 ) Then as far as we are concerned ( 37 ) If X had been accented in the ' functions , we should have had 2 in all the dices of exponentials of the first line , and in all the indices of the second These three pairs of terms will be called , WIr , WIII .
These are If the multiplications be performed as in previous case , it will be found that sappears in the sum of the two products , and , as far as concerns terms in those independent of and , we have ( 38 ) If X had been accented in the functions we should have had in all the indices of the exponentials of the first line , and in all the indices second line .
These three pairs of terms will be called Fortnightly term .
This is .
Multiplying ( 36 ) by ( 28 ) when the are a , ccented , and only retainin deed terms , Even if had been accented in the X ' functions , neither or would ha entered in this expression .
These terms ] be called Then the sum of the three expressions ( 37 ) , ( 38 ) , and ( 39 ) , when multiplied by is equal to , the disturbing function .
If Diana be a different body from the moon the terms in are periodic , and only part of , from which secular changes in the moon 's mean distance inclination can arise , axe the sidereal semi-diurnal and diurnal terms , viz. : those and , and also the term independent of in ( 39 ) .
These terms being independ of are independent of , the moon 's epoch .
Hence it follows that , as far as cerns the influence of Diana 's tides upon the moon , is zero , and we conda that\mdash ; the tides by one satelhte produce directly no change in of any other satellite .
* But Diana being still distinct from the moon , the , G- , and part of the fortnigh term , which are independent of , do involve and ; for contains terms of forms , also it has terms independent of Hence will contain terms of the form , or their equivalent sines or nes .
Now by hypothesis there are two disturbing bodies , and we know by lunar the that the direct influence of Diana on the moon is such as to tend to make the of the moon 's orbit revolve on the ecliptic ; on the other hand , there is a influence of the permanent oblateness of the earth on the nodes of the moon 's or If the oblateness of the earth be la , rge , the result of the joint influence of these causes may be such as either to ma ke the nodes of the moon 's orbit rotate with a unequal angular velocity , or perform oscillations ( possibly large ones ) lar ones about a position .
If this be the case the mean value of may differ from zero .
This case is considered in detail in Part .
paper .
III .
of thi If on the other hand the oblateness be small the nodes of the orbit revolve wf here brigorous rationship between totions opair oites t Saturn .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ibly uniform angular velocity on the ecliptic .
This is the case at present with earth and moon .
Here then , as far as concerns the influence of Diana 's on the moon , is sensibly periodic according to ] harmonic functions of the From this we conclude that : the no\amp ; s of the ' orbits revolve uniformly on the of reference , then tides by any one satellite can produce no in the inclination of of any other tellite .
There are thus two cases in which the problem is simplified by our being permitted consider only the case of identity between Diana and the moon : 1st .
Where there are two or more satellites , but where the nodes of the perturbed tellite 's orbit revolve with sensible uniformity on the plane of reference .
2nd .
Where the planet and satellite are the only bodies in existence .
In these two cases , after differentiation of the disturbing function with respect to acoented elements , we shall be able to drop the accents .
There is also a third case in which Diana 's tides will produce a secular effect on the alination of the moon 's orbit , and this is where the nodes of the moon 's orbit either volve irregularly or oscillate .
This case is enormously more complicated than the hers , and forms the subject of Part III .
of this paper ; I have only attempted to lve it on the supposition of the smallness both of the inclination of the orbit , and of obliquity of the ecliptic .
The first of these cases is that which actually represents the moon and earth , gether with solar perturbation of the moon at the present time .
In tracing the configuration of the lunar orbit backwards from the present state , we all start with the first case ; this will graduate into the third , and from this it will to a state represented to a very close degree of approximation by the second .
We are not at present concerned to know what are the conditions under which ere may be approximate uniformity in the motion of the nodes ; this will be vestigated below .
We will begin with the first of the three cases , and will find also the rate of change the diurnal rotation and of the obliquity of the planet .
The second case will then be taken , and afterwards the third case will have to be scussed almost ab initio in Part III .
6 .
Secular change of inclination of the orbit of satellite , where there is a second disturbing body , and where the nodes revolve with senslble uniformity on the fixed plane of reference .
By ( 13 ) the equation giving the change of inclination is CCCLXXX .
As shown above , however , we need here only deal with a single satellite , so and the moon may be considered as identical and the accents may be dropped the symbols , except in the differential coefficients of W. Ako we need only ma the distinction between Diana and the moon as regards and ; and affi differentiations of these distinctions must also be dropped .
Henoe only from from from , and from in the accentuation of Also since , therefore we may replace in the expressions ( 37-9 ) by If we put , and write for the operation putting after differentiation ; then from ( 13 ) we have Also for brevity , let ; so that .
The terms corresponding to the tides of the seven speeds wffi now be separately , the coefficients in will be developed , and the terms involving ected , the operation performed , and then put equal to , and For the sake of brevity the coefficient will be dropped and will be added in final result .
The component parts of taken from the equations ( 37-9 ) will indicated as , WIII for the slow , sidereal , and fast semi-diurnal parts ; as for the slow , sidereal , and fast diurnal parts ; and as for the fortni part .
Slow semi-diurnal terms .
Let Since Therefore same with in place of Therefore Therefore where , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 .
THE ELEIIENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore by addition Now when If we had taken the second term of we should have had the same coefficients but multiplied by instead of by .
Therefore , since Then let .
( 41 ) remembering that , we have . . . . .
( 42 ) Sidereal semi-diurnal terrns . . . . . .
( 43 ) Here the epoch is wanting , so that .
Let If we had operated on the other term of we should have got the same with opposite sign , and in place of Then let ( 4 and we have sinj ( 4 serni-diurnal terms .
Since is obtained from by writing for , and for , therefore by wry for and interchanging 's and 's we may write down the result by symmet with the slow semi-diurnal terma Then let and Slow diurnal terms .
Let THE ELElfENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ior the moment let , then since , and since prefore , and therefore Hence ( see slow semi-diurnal terms ) same with for Hence Adding Then let and we have sinj . . .
( 51 ) dereal diurnal terms .
( 52 ) Hore the epoch is wanting , so that .
Let same with instead of Now Put therefore and we have Fast diurnal terms .
By an analogy similar to that by which the fast semi-diurnal was derived from slow , we have and Fortnightly terms .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
It will be found that performed on the first term is zero , as it ought to be ording to the general principles of energy\mdash ; for the system is a conservative one as as regards these terms .
Let same with for Adding and arranging the terms Then let ( 59 ) and we have . . . . .
This is the last of the seven sets of terms .
Then collecting results from ( 42-5-8 , 51-4-7 , 60 ) , we have ( 61 ) The seven gothic-letter functions defined by ( 41-4-7 , 50-8-6-9 ) are functionr sines and cosines of half the obliquity and of half the inclination , but they reducible to forms which may be expressed in the following These coefficients will be applicable whatever theory of tides be used , and approximation , as regards either the obliquity or inclination , has been used in obtaini them .
S7 .
Application to the case where the planet is viscous .
If the planet or earth be viscous with a coefficient of viscosity , then according to theory of viscous tides , when inertia is neglected , the tangent of the phase-retardat or lag of any tide is equal to 19 multiplied by the speed of that tide ; and height of tide is equal to the equilibrium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid multipl by the cosine of the lag .
If therefore we put , we have and Therefore This equation involves such complex functions of and , that it does not presw the mind any physical meaning .
It will accordingly be illustrate g.rap fast hidly .
or this purpose the case is taken when the planet rotates fifteen tmes THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
llite revolves .
Then the speeds of the seven tides are proportional to the owing numbers : 28 , 30 , 32 ( semi-diurnal ) ; 13 , 15 , 17 ( diurnal ) ; and 2 ( fortnightly ) .
It would require a whole series of figures to illustrate the equation for all values of and , and for all sities .
The case is therefore taken where the inclination of he orbit to the ecliptic is so small that we may neglect squares and powers of Then the formula@ ( 62 ) become From these we may compute a series of values corresponding to actually compute them from formulas .
I then took as five several standards of the viscosity of the planet , such viscosities would make the lag of the slow semi-diurnal tide ( of speed ) equal to .
Then it is easy to compute tables giving the five corre- pondin values of each of the following , viz. : Then these numerical values were appropriately multiplied ( with CRELLE'S three flgure table ) by the sets of values before found for the , \amp ; c. From the sets of tables formed , the proper sets were selected and added up .
The rmult was to have a series of numbers which were proportional to Then the series corresponding to each degree of viscosity were set off in a curve , shown in fig. 4 .
The ordinates , which are generally negative , represent , and the abscissae oorrespond to , the obliquity of the planet 's equator to the ecliptic .
This figure shows that the inclination of the orbit will diminish , unless the obliquity be very large .
It appears from the results of previous papers , that the satellite 's distance will increase as the time increases , unless the obliquity be very large , and if the obliquity be very large the mean distance decreases more rapidly for large than for small viscosity .
This statement , taken in conjunction with our present figure , shows that in general the inclination will decrease as long as the mean distance increases , and vice versed .
not , however , necessarily true for all speeds of rotation of the planet and revolution the satelite .
The most remarkable feature in these curves is that they show that , for moderate dsgrees of visoosity ( less than ) , the inclination decreases most rapidly when hDCCCLXXX .
Diagram ilustrating the rate of change of the inclination of a sateIlite 's orbit to a fixed plane on its nodes revolve , for various obhquities and viscosities of the planet when is small ) .
We now return to the analytical investigation .
If the viscosity be sufficiently smaU to allow the phase retardations to be that the lag of each tide is proportional to its speed , we may express the lags of the tides in terms of that of the sidereal semi-diurnal tide , viz. : .
Then on hypothesis we have , where And But by ( 62 ) and and THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
These results may of course be also obtained when the functions are expressed in ms of Whence on this hypothesis . . . . .
( 64 ) Secula , change in the mean of satellite , ?
)there is second disturbing body , and where the nodes revolve with sensible uniformity on the fixed plane of reference .
By ( 11 ) the equation giving the rate of change of is As before , we may drop the accents , except as regards In S 6 we wrote for the operation ; hence , and by derence to that section the result may be at once written down .
We have ( 65 ) Where the same with and interchanged the same with and interchanged These functions are reducible to the following forms S9 .
Application to the case where the planet viscous .
As in S7 If be put equal to zero this equation will be found to be the same as that used the equation of tidal reaction in the previous paper on " " Precession If the viscosity be small , with the same notation as before Now and Therefore We see that the rate of tidal reaction diminishes as the inclination of the increases .
S10 .
Secutar in the inctination of the orbit of a single satelhte to the invaria , where there .
is no other disturbing body than the planet .
This is the second of the two cases into which the problem subdivides itself .
If there be only two bodies , then the fixed plane of reference , which was called ecliptic , may be taken as the invariable plane of the system .
It folows from principle of the composition of moments of momentum that the planet 's axis of rotat the normal to the satellite 's orbit and the normal to the invariable plane , necessar ily in one plane .
Whence it folows that the orbit and the .
equator necessanly in the invariable plane .
From this principle it would of course be possible either determine the motion of the node from the precession of the planet or vice versed , the change of obliquity of the planet 's axis ( if any ) from the change in the the orbit or vice versed ; this principle will be applied later .
We have found it convenient to measure longitudes from a line in the ffied which is instantaneously coincident with the descending node of the equator on fixed plane .
Hence it folows that where there are only two bodies we differentiation have to put THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Then since therefore , and similarly , when Also after differentiation when , In order to find we must , as before , perform on W. Then take the me notation as before for the 's and w 's with suffixes .
Stow semi-diurnal term .
, also Hence Sidereal term .
ad since , therefore Fast semi-diurnal term .
By symmetry Slow diurnal term .
Sidereal term .
and Therefore and Fast diurnal term .
By symmetry Fortnightly term .
and Whence Then collecting terms we have , on applying the result to the case of viscosity , - .
In the particular case where the viscosity is small , this becomes \mdash ; The right hand side is necessarily positive , and therefore the inclination of the to invariable plane will always diminish with the time .
The general equation ( 71 ) for any degree of viscosity is so complex as to present idea to the mind , and it will accordingly be graphically illustrated .
The case taken is where , which is the same relation as in the prev graphical illustration of S7 .
The general method of illustration is sufficientIy explained in that section .
Fig. 5 illustrates the ious values which ( the rate of increase of inchnat to the invariable plane ) is capable of assuming for various cosities of the planet , In the case where the viscosity is small this becomes It will now be shown that the preceding result ( 71 ) for may be obtained means of the )rinciple of conservation of moment of momentum and by the use of results of a previous paper .
It is easily shown that the moment of momentum of orbit4 motion of the moon earth round their common centre of inertia is , and the moment of momentu the earth 's rotation is clearly .
Also and are the inclinations of the two axe moment of momentum to the axis of resultant moment of momentum of the syst Hence By differentiation of which cos si ] Now from equation ( 52 ) of the paper on " " Precession , \ldquo ; the second term on the } hand side is zero , and therefore But by equations ( 21 ) and ( 16 ) and ( 29 ) of the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; ( when are written for the of that paper ) Then if we multiply the former of these by or , and the latter or , and add , we get the equation ( 71 ) , which ha@ already established by the method of the disturbing function .
It seemed well to give this method , because it conffims the accuracy of the two analytical investigations in the paper on ' Precession \ldquo ; and in the present ona THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
S1 .
The method of the disturbing function pplied to the motion of the In the case where there are only two bodies , viz. : the planet and the satellite , the oblem is already solved in the paper on " " Precession and it is only necessary to member that the and of that paper are really , , instead of .
This will not be reinvestigated , but we will now consider the case of satellites , the nodes of whose orbits revolve with uniform angular velocity on the liptic .
The results may be easily extended to the hypothesis of any number of belites .
In ( 18 ) we have the equations of variation of in terms of W. But as the rrection to the precession has not much interest , we will only take two uations ( 75 ) which give the rate of change of obliquity and the tidal friction .
In the development of in S 5 , it was assumed that were zero , and did not appear , because was left unaccented in the functions .
Longitudes were there measured from the autumnal equinox , but here we must conceive the of previous developments replaced by ; also must be replaced by It will not be necessary to redevelop for the following reasons .
occurs only in the exponentials , and does not occur there ; and only occurs in the functions of and , and does not occur there .
Hence , . . . . .
( 76 ) Again , it will be seen by referring to the remarks made as to in the development of in S 5 , that we have the following identities :\mdash ; For semi-diurnal terms , ' For diurnal terms , ( 77 ) For the fortnightly term , Also hDCCCLXXX .
Then making use of ( 76 ) and ( 77 ) , and remembering that may write equations ( 75 ) , thus It is clear that by using these transformations we may put differentiation , so that and again disappear , and we may use the old developm of W. The case where Diana and the moon are distinct bodies will be taken first , and will now be convenient to make Diana identical with the sun .
In this case after the differentiations are made we are not to put and The only terms , out of which secular changes in and can arise , are those depeI ing on the sidereal semi-diurnal and diurnal tides , for all others are periodic with longitudes of the two disturbing bodies .
Hence the disturbing function is reduced and .
Also and can only contribute periodic terr because is not zero , and by hypothesis the nodes revolve uniformly on ecliplic .
Then if we consider that here is not equal , nor to , we see that , as far as .
of present interest , WII Also the equations of variation of and are simply Then if we put THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
We have ( 81 ) It will be noticed that in ( 81 ) has been introduced in the equations instead of ; this is because in the complete solution of the problem these terms are repeated twice , once for the attraction of the moon on the solar tides , and again for that of the sun on the ltmar tides .
The case where Diana is identical with the moon must now be considered .
This enable us to find the effects of the moon 's attraction on her own tides , and then by symmetry those of the sun 's attraction on his tides .
We will begin with the tidal friction , By comparison with ( 65 ) ( s2 ) Now when we put ( see ( 43 ) and ( 52 ) ) and Also and Then let ( 83 ) and let And we have MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE SECULAR CHANGES IN This is only a partial solution , since it only refers to the action of the moon on own tides .
If the second satellite , say the sun , be introduced , the action of the sun on the tides may be written down by symmetry , and the elements of the solar ( or terrestM orbit may be indicated by the same symbols as before , but with accents .
From ( 85 ) and ( 81 ) the complete solution may be collected .
In the case of viscosity , and where the viscosity is small , it will be found that th solution becomes Ifj and be put equal to zero and neglected , this result will be found to agree with that given in the paper on " " Precession S 17 , ( 83 ) .
We will next consider the change of obliquity .
The combined effect has already been determined in ( 81 ) , but the separate effects the two bodies remain to be found .
The terms of different speeds must now be take one by one .
Slow semi-diurnal term .
We had before Now is symmetrical with regard to and and , and so are its differential with regard to and .
The solution may be written down by symmetry with th " " slow semi-diurnal\ldquo ; of S6 , by writing for and for and vice versed .
Let and semi-diurnal term .
THE ELEMENTS OF THh ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Now and Therefore On substitution from ( 44 ) and ( 83 ) and and simplification , we find that if then ( 90 ) Fast semi-diurnal term .
Since WIII is found from WI by writing for , and for , and for therefore in this case is found from its value in the slow semi-diurnal term by the like changes , and if ( 92 ) Slow diurnat term .
Substituting these values and simplifying , it will be found that if ( 93 ) Then . . . . .
( 94 ) diurnal term .
and Therefore On substitution from ( 53 ) and ( 84 ) for and and simplification , we find that Then ( 9 Fast diurnal term .
As the fast diurnal is derived from the slow .
so here also ; and if ( 9 Then ( 9 Fortnightly term .
If we take the term in which has positive in the exponential , we have THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Then if these be added and simplified , it will be found that if . . . . .
( 99 ) Then . . . .
( 100 ) Then collecting results from the seven equations , ( 101 ) This is only a partial solution , and refers only to the action of the moon on her own tides ; the part depending on the sun alone may be written down by symmetry .
The various functions of and here introduced admit of reduction to the following forms : ( 102 ) \mdash ; ( 103 ) are given in equations ( 67 ) , and and in equations ( 80 ) .
The expressions for and are found by symmetry with those for and , by interchanging and ; the first of equations ( 62 ) then corresponds with the second of ( 103 ) , and vice versed .
From ( 103 ) it follows that MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE SECULAR CHANGE@ IN The complete solution of the problem may be ooUected from the equations and ( 81 ) .
In the case of the viscosity of the earth , and when the viscosity is small , we find the complete solution to be ( 10 This result agrees with that given in ( 83 ) of ' ' Precession when the squares and are neglected , .
and when is also neglected .
The preceding method of finding the tidal friction and change of obliquity is doubt somewhat artificial , but as the principal object of the present paper is to disou the secular changes in the elements of the satellite 's orbit , it did not seem worth to develop the disturbing function in such a form as would make it applicable both the satellite and the planet ; it seemed preferable to develop it for the satellite a then to adapt it for the case of the perturbation of the planet .
In long analytical investigations it is difficult to avoid mistakes ; it may therefo give the reader confidence in the correctness of the results and process if I state th I have worked out the preceding values of and independently , by means the determination of the disturbing couples .
That investigation separate itself from the present one at the point where the products of the function and functions are formed , for products of the form had there to found .
From this early stage the two processes are quite independent , and the identi of the results is confirmatory of both .
Moreover , the investigation here present reposes on the values found for and , hence the correctness of the result the first problem here treated was also confirmed .
III .
THE PROPER PLANES OF THE SATELLITE , AND OF THE PLANET , AND SECULAR CHANGES .
S13 .
On the motion of satellite moving about a rigid oblate spheroidal ptanet , perturbed by another satellite .
The present is to determine the joint effects of the perturbing influence the sun , and of the earth 's oblateness upon the motion of the moon 's nodes , and the inclination of the orbit to the ecliptic ; and also to determine the effects on THE ELHMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
liquity of the ecliptic and on the earth 's precession .
In the present configuration of three bodies the problem presents but little difficulty , because the influence of lateness on the moon 's motion is very small compared with the perturbation due to sun ; on the other hand , in the case of Jupiter , the influence of oblateness is more portant than that of solar perturbation .
In each of these special cases there is an propriate approximation which leads to the result .
In the present problem we have , owever , to obtain a solution , which shall be applicable to the preponderance of either erturbing cause , because we shall have to trace , in retrospect , the evanescence of the kr influence , and the increase of the influence of oblateness .
The lunar orbit will be taken as circular , and the earth or planet as homogeneous of ellipticity 1 , so that the equation to its surface is The problem will be treated by the method of the disturbing function , and the method will be applied so as to give the perturbations both of the moon and earth .
First consider only the influence of oblateness .
Let be the coordinates of the moon , so that and .
Then in the brmula ( 17 ) S2 , and , so that the disturbing function function , when suitably developed , will give the perturbation of the moon 's otiou due to oblateness , and the lunar precession and nutation of the earth .
Then by ( 21 ) we have Where is the moon 's longitude measured from the node , and is the longitude of the ascending node of the lunar orbit measured from the descending node of the quator .
Then as we are only going to find secular inequalities , we may , in developing the disturbing function , drop out terms involving ; also we must write for because we cannot now take the autumnal equinox as fixed .
Then omitting all terms which involve Since , we have wncoCLXXX .
and Now Wherefore This is the disturbing function .
Before applying it , we will assume that and are sufficiently small to permit us neglect compared with unity .
Then \mdash ; Hence , when we neglect the terms in . . . .
Then since this disturbing does not involve the epoch or , we have ( 13 ) , ( 14 ) , and ( 18 ) - Thus as far as concerns the influence of the oblateness on the moon , and the react of the moon on the earth , : \mdash ; If there be no other disturbing body , and if we refer the motion to the invari plane of the system , we must always have In this case the first and third of ( 107 ) become and the second and fourth become THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
But is proportional to the moment of momentum of the orbital motion , and is proportional to the moment of momentum of the earth 's rotation , and so by the tion of the invariable plane . . . . .
( 108 ) Wherefore , and it folows that the two nodes remain coincident .
This result is obviously correct .
In the present case , however , there is another disturbing body , and we must now oonsider The perturbing influence of the Accented symbols will here refer to the elements of the solar orbit .
We might of course form the disturbing function , but it is simpler to accept known results of lunar theory ; these are that the inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic remains constant , whilst the nodes regrede with an angular velocity Now in our notation .
Hence I shall write for , although if necessary ( in Part IV .
) I shall use the more accurate formula for numerical calculation .
For the solar precession and nutation we may obtain the results from ( 107 ) by putting , and for Thus for the solar effects we have ( 109 ) The following seems worthy of remark .
By the last of ( 109 ) we have In this formula is the precessional constant , because the earth is treated as homogeneous .
The full expression for the precessional constant is , where are the three prinpal moments of inertia .
Now if we regard the earth and moon as being two particles rotating with an angular velocity about Then when the system is perturbal both by the oblateness the earth and by sun , we have from ( 107 ) and ( 109 ) , The second pair of equations is derivable from the first by writing for and for and for for for ; and for in the term in The first pair of equations may be put into the form co Now let Therefore or Again their common centre of inertia , then the three principal moments of inertia of , , , and therefore the preoessional constant of formula for is precisely analogous to that for , each of them being to inclin .
- : rotation .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Now let ( 112 ) And we have ( 113 ) and by symmetry from the two latter of ( 110 ) ( 114 ) cos2 i.z These four simultaneous differential equations have to be solved .
The 's and 's are constant , and if it were not for the cosines on the right the equations would be linear and easily soluble .
It has already been assumed that and are not very large , hence it would require large variations of and to make considerable variations in the coefficients , I shall therefore substitute for and , as they occur explicitly , mean values and ; and this procedure will be justifiable unless it be found subsequently that and vary largely .
Then let ( 115 ) ( Hereafter and will be treated as small and the cosines as unity .
) Then ( 116 ) These equations suggest the solutions Then substituting in ( 116 ) , we must have Wherefore and or This quadratic equation has two real roots ( and suppose ) , because is essentially positive .
Then let ( 117 And the solution is oos ( 11 where From these equations we have From this we see that oscillates between and , and between and .
Let us change the constants introduced by integration , and write Then our solution is THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
( 119 ) .
From this it follows that sin Now Therefore gin sin { a From ( 120 ) it is clear that the nodes of the lunar orbit will oscillate about t , he equinoctial line , if a be greater than but will rotate ( although not uniformly ) if the former be less than the latter .
With the present configuration of the earth and moon a is very small compared with the nodes of the lunar orbit revolve very nearly uniformly on the ecliptic ; also the inclination of the orbit varies very slightly , as the nodes revolve .
In the investigation in Part II .
the secular rate of change in the inclination.of the MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE SECULAIIc IN lunar orbit has been found , on the assumption that the nodes of the lunar orbit rot uniformly .
It is intended to trace the effects of tidal friction the earth and moon retr spectively .
In the course of the solution the importance of the solar perturbation the moon , relatively to the influence of the earth 's oblateness , will wane ; the nod will cease to revolve uniformly , and the inclination of the lunar orbit and of the equat to the ecliptic will be subject to nutation .
The differential equations of Part IL then cease to be applicable , and new ones will have to be found .
The problem is one of such complication , that I have thought it advisable only attempt to obtain a solution on the hypothesis of the smallness both of the obliquit and of the inclination of the orbit to the plane of reference or the ecliptic .
It see best however to give the preceding investigation , although it is more accurate tha the solution subsequently used .
The step towards this further consideration is to obtain a clear idea of th nature of the motions represented by the analytical solutions ( 118 ) or ( 119 ) of th present problem .
Assuming then and to be small , we have from ( 112 ) and ( 115 ) ( 12 ( 12 Take a set of rectangular axes ; let the axis of pass through the fixed point in ecliptic from which longitudes are measured , let the axis of be drawn perpendicul to the ecliptic northwards , and let the rotation from to be positive , and therefo consentaneous with the moon 's orbital motion .
Then is the longitude of the ascending node of the lunar orbit , and therefore direction cosines of the normal to the lunar orbit drawn northwards are , , , ; or since is small , And is the longitude of the descending node .
of the equator , and therefore direction cosines of the earth 's axis , drawn northwards are , , , ; or since is small , , 1 .
Now draw a sphere of unit radius , with the origin as centre ; draw a tangent * See the foot.note to S18 for a comparison of these results with theme ordinarily THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
it at the point where the axis of meets the sphere , and project on this plane the les of the lunar orbit and of the earth .
We here in fact map the motion of the two les on a tangent plane to the celestial sphere .
Let be a pair of axes in this no paralel to our previous ; and let be the coordinates of the pole of the bar orbit , and be the coordinates of the earth 's pole .
Then . . . .
( 123 ) Let be the coordinates of these same points referred to another pair of ctangular axes in this plane , inclined at an angle to the axes Then From ( 123 ) and ( 118 ) we have therefore Now suppose the new axes to rotate with an angular velocity , and that Then ( 124 ) These four equations represent that each pole describes a , relatively to the tating axes , with a negative angular velocity ( because is negative ) .
The ntres of the circles are on the axis of .
The ratio distance of centre of terrestrial circle distance of centre of lunar circle ( 125 ) distances being measured from the pole of the ecliptic .
And the ratio DCCCLXXX .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic inclination of the lunar orbit to its plane I , inclination of the equator to the earth 's proper plane inclination of the moon 's proper plane to the ecliptic $hen ( 127 ) by ( 125-6 ) , Thus I and are the two constants introduced in the integration of the simulteneous differential equations ( 116 ) .
It is interesting to examine the physical meaning of these results , and to show how the solution degrades into the two limiting cases , viz. : where the planet is spherical , where the sun 's influence is non-existent .
Let be the speed of motion of the nodes , when the ellipticity of the planet is zero .
Let [ be the purely lunar precession , or the preoession when the solar influence is nil .
Let be the ratio of the moment of momentum of the earth 's rotation to that of the orbital motion of the two bodies round their comr1lon centre of inertia .
Then ' Then by ( 121 ) and ( 115 ) we have First suppose that is large compared with 1 .
This is the case at present with the earth moon , because the speed of motion of the moon 's nodes is very great compared with the speed of the purely lunar precession .
Then are small compared with Therefore by ( 117 ) Therefore approximately approximately approximately And by ( 127 ) Now we have shown above that is the common angular velocity of the pair proper planes , and the above results show that it is in fact the luni-solar preoessio is the angular velocity of the two nodes on their proper planes , and it nearly equal to The ratio of the amplitude of the 19-yearly nutation to the inclination of the orbit is The ratio of the inclination of the lunar proper plane to the obliquity of the eclipt is In this case , therefore , the lunar proper plane is inclined at a small angle to tl ecliptic , and if the earth were spherical would be identical with the ecliptic .
Secondly , suppose is compared uxith [ .
Then a fortiori is small compared with .
Hence we may put Therefore , nearly ; Therefore , THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
From the last of these , is the precession of the system of proper planes , and the above results show that the solar precession of the planet and satellite together , considered as one system , is of the angular velocity which the nodes of the satellite would have , if the planet were sphericaL is the lunar precession of the earth which goes on within the system , and it is approximately the same as though the sun did not exist .
( Compare the second and fourth of ( 107 ) with , and use ( 108 ) ) .
It also appears that the lunar proper plane is inclined to the planet 's proper plane at a small angle the ratio of which to the inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic is equal to one part of If and 1 are of approximately equal speeds the proper plane of the moon will neither be very near the ecliptic , nor very near the earth 's proper plane .
The results do not then appear to be reducible to very simple forms ; nor are the angular velocities and so easily intelligible , each of them being a sort of compound precession .
If the solar influence were to wane , and , the poles of the proper planes , would approach one another , and ultimately become identical .
The two planes would have then become the invariable plane of the system ; and the two circles would be concentric and their radii would be inversely proportional to the two moments of momentum ( whose ratio is ) .
Now in the problem which is to be here considered the solar influence will in effect wane , because the effect of tidal friction is , in retrospect , to bring the moon nearer and nearer to the earth , and to increase the ellipticity of the earth 's figure ; hence the relative importance of the solar influence diminishes .
We now see that the problem to be solved is to trace these proper planes , from their present condition when one nearly identical with the ecliptic and the other is the mean equator , backwards until they are both sensibly coincident with the equator .
We also see that the present angular velocity of the moon 's nodes on the ecliptic is analogous to and continuous with the purely lunar precession on the invariable plane of the moon-earth system ; and that the present luni-solar precession is analogous to and continuous with a slow precessional motion of the same invariable plane .
Analytically the problem is to trace the secular changes in the constants of integration , when , instead of being constant , are slowly variable under the influence of tidal friction , and when certain other small terms , also due to tides , are added to the differential equations of motion .
S 14 .
On the small terms in the equations of motion due directly to hlfnction .
The first step is the formation of the disturbing function .
As we shall want to apply the function both to the case of the earth and to that the moon , it will be necessary to measure longitudes from a fixed point in the ecIipt also we must distinguish between the longitude of the equinox and the angle , as ffi enter in the two capacities ( viz. : in the and g funetions ) ; th.us the and of previous developments must become must become and must be introduced in the arguments of the trigonometrical terms in semi-diurnal terms , and in the diurnal ones .
The disturbing function must be developed so that it may be applicable to the cas either where Diana , the tide-raiser , is or is not identical with the moon ; but as we a only going to consider secular inequalities , all those terms which depend on longitudes of Diana or the moon may be dropped .
In the previous development of Part II .
we had terms whose arguments involv ; in the present case this ought to be written , wluch it is , in fact , only an abbreviation .
Now a term involving his expression can only give rise to secular inequalities , in ] case where Diana is identical with th moop ; and as we shall never want to differentia the disturbing function with regard to , we may in the present development the and Having made these preliminary-explanations , we shall be able to use previous resu ] for the development of the disturbing function .
The work will be much abridged 1 the treatment of as small .
Unaccented symbols refer to the elements of the orbit of the tide-raiser Diana , case to the earth as a tidally distorted body ; accented symbols ref to the elements of the orbit of the perturbed satellite , or to the earth as a body who rotation is perturbed .
Then since and are to be treated as small , ( 22 ) becomes The same quantities when accented are equal to the same quantities when accented .
Then referring to the development in S5 of the disturbing function , we see that , the same reasons as before , we need only consider products of terms of the same ki in the sets of products of the type .
Hence the disturbing function the sum of the three expressions ( 37-9 ) multiplied by .
Now since we only wi THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
develop the expression as far as the squares of andj , we may at once drop out all ose terms in these expressions , in which occurs raised to a higher power than the cond .
This at once relieves us of the sidereal and semi-diurnal terms , the fast lurnal and the true fortnightly term .
We are , however , left with one part of , which is independent of the moon 's longitude and of the earth 's otation ; this part represents the permanent increase of ellipticity of the earth , due Diana 's attraction , and to that part of the tidal action which depends on the ongitude of the nodes , in which the tides are assumed to have their equilibrium value .
shall refer to it as the permanent tide .
Then as before , it will be convenient to consider the constituent parts of the disurbing function separately , and to indicate the several parts of by suffixes as in 5 and elsewhere ; as above explained , we need only consider , and Semi-diurnal From ( 37 ) we have To the indices of these exponentials we must add , and for write and for Then by ( 128 ) Hence ' ( 129 ) Slow diurnal term .
From ( 38 ) we have To the indices of the exponentials we must add ' may be obviously ut equal to unity , and by ( 128 ) MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE @ECULAR IN Hence .
( 13 Sidereal diurnal term .
From ( 38 ) we have To the indices of the exponentials must be added .
may be treat as unity .
Hence the expression becomes and . . .
( 13 term .
From ( 39 ) we have to our degree of approximation .
Now Hence ( 1 and are the only telYns in which can contribute anything to the secul inequalities , unless Diana and the satellite are identical ; for the other terms invol , and will therefore be periodic however differentiated , unless We now have to differentiate with respect to .
The will then have to be applied in the following cases .
THE ]JLEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
For the moon : When the tide-raiser is the moon .
( ii .
) When the tide-raiser is the sun .
For the earth : ( iii .
) When the tide-raiser is the moon , and the disturber the moon .
( iv .
) When the tide-raiser is the sun , and the disturber the sun .
YVhen the tide-raiser is the moon , and the disturber the sun .
( vi .
) When the tide-raiser is the sun , and the disturber the moon .
The sum of the values derived the differentiations , according to these several hypotheses , will be the complete values to be used in the rential equations 13 ) , 14 ) and ( 18 ) for A little preliminary consideration will show that the labour of making these aifferentiations may be considerably abridged .
In the present case and are small , and the equations ( 110 ) which give the position of the two proper anes , and the inclinations of the orbit and equator thereto , become ( 133 ) oos We are now going to find certain additional terms , depending on frictional tides , to be added to these four equations .
These terms will all involve , or in their efficients , and will therefore be small compared with those in ( 133 ) .
If these small terms are of the same types as the terms in ( 183 ) , they may be dropped ; because the only effect of them would to produce a very small and negligeable alteration in the position of the two proper planes .
* In consequence of this principle , we may entirely drop from our disturbing function , for only gives rise to a permanent alteration of oblateness , and therefore can only slightly modify the positions of the proper planes .
Analytically the same result may be obtained , by observing that in ( 132 ) the same form as in ( 105 ) , when and are treated as small .
For example , we should find the following terms in , viz. :\mdash ; may be all coupled up with those in the second of ( 133 ) .
If the viscosity be small , so that the angles of lagging are small , it will be found that all the terms of kind vanish in all four equations , excepting the first of those just written down , viz. : fDCCCLXXX .
.5 In each case , after differentiation , the transition will be made to the ease of viscx of the planet , and the proper terms will be dropped out , without further comment .
First take the of the moon .
For this purpose we have to find and By the above principle , in finding we may drop terms involvin and , and in finding , we may drop terms involv ing .
We may now suppose Take the case , where the tide-raiser is the moon .
Then as the perturbed bod is also the moon , after differentiation we may drop the accents to all the symbols .
From ( 129 ) . . . . .
( 13 From ( 130 ) ( 13 From ( 131 ) and symmetry with ( 135 ) Adding these three ( 134-6 ) together , we have for the whole effect of the lunar tid the moon Now take the case ( ii .
) where the tide-raiser is the sun .
Here we need only consider , but although we may put must not put , because the tide-raiser is distinct ffom the moon .
From ( 131 ) Here accented symbols refer to the moon ( as perturbed ) , and unaccented to the ( as tide-raiser ) .
As we refer the motion to the ecliptic , and the last disappears .
Also we want accented symbols to refer to tha sun and unaccented THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
the moon , therefore make and interchange their meanings , and drop the ts to and .
Thus as far as important . . . . .
( 138 ) This gives the whole effect of the solar tides on the moon .
Then colecting results from ( 137-8 ) , we have by ( 14 ) ( 139 ) This gives the required additional terms due to bodily tides in the equation for , viz. : the second of ( 13S ) .
If the viscosity be smaU ( 140 ) Next take the change of inclination of the lunar orbit .
For this purpose we have to find , and may drop terms in @in .
First take the case , where the tide-raiser is the moon .
From ( 129 ) ( 141 ) From ( 130 ) .
( 142 to present er of approximation ( 144 ) ( 145 ) absolutely . .
( 146 ) Collecting results from the six equations ( i41-6 ) , we have for the whole of the moon by the lunar tides Next take the case ( ii .
) , and suppose that the sun is the tide-raiser .
Here we no only consider .
Then noting that absolutely , we have ffom ( 131 ) Accented symbols here refer to the moon ( as perturbed ) , unaccented to the sun tide-raiser ) .
Therefore .
Then reverting to the usual notation by shifting accen and dropping useless terms , this expression becomes . . . . .
( 14 Then collecting results from ( 147-8 ) , we have by ( 13 ) This gives the additional terms due to bodily tides in the equation for , viz. : th first of 183 ) .
If the viscosity be small ( 15 Before proceeding further it may be remarked that to the present order of appro mation in case and in case it is zero ; thus by ( 11 ) We now turn to the of the earth 's rotation .
Here we have to find and or , and in the former may drop terms in and and in the latter terms in .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
First take the case , where the moon is tide-raiser and disturber .
Here we may ffle throughout , and after differentiation may drop the accents to the symbols .
From ( 129 ) .
( 152 ) From ( 130 ) .
( 153 ) From cosg os ( i54 ) Therefore from ( 152-4 ) we have for the whole perturbation of the earth , due to attraction of the moon on the lunar tides , ( 155 ) The result for case ( iv .
) , where the sun is both tide-raiser and disturber , may be written down by symmetry ; and since here , therefore ( 156 ) Next take the cases and ( vi .
) , where the tide-raiser and disturber are distinct .
Here we need only consider From ( 131 ) When the moon is tide-raiser and sun disturber , this becomes . . . .
( 157 ) When sun is tide-raiser and moon disturber it becomes zero .
Then colecting results from ( 155-7 ) , we have by ( 18 ) \mdash ; This gives the additional terms due to bodily tides in the equation for the last of ( 133 ) .
If the viscosity be small where ( 159 ) Next consider the ange in the obliquity of the ecliptic ; for this purpose we must find , and may drop terms involving sm .
First take the case , where the moon is both tide-raiser and disturber .
Then from ( 129 ) ( 160 ) Therefore . . . .
From ( 130 ) .
Therefore in THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
From 131 ) ( 164 ) Therefore . . . .
( 165 ) Then collecting results from ( 161-3--5 ) , we have for the whole perturbation of the earth due to of the moon on the lunar tides , , \mdash ; ( 166 ) The result for case ( iv .
) , where the sun is both tide-raiser and disturber , may be written down by symmetry ; and since here , therefore ( 167 ) It is here assumed that the solar slow diurnal tide has the same lag as the sidereal diurnal tide , and that the solar slow semi-diurnal tide has the same lag as the sidereal -diurnal tide .
This is very nearly true , because is smaU compared with Next take the cases and ( vi .
) , where the tide-raiser and disturber are distinct .
Here we need only consider .
Therefore When the moon is tide-raiser an , the sun disturber , this becomes . . . .
( 16 When the sun is tide-raiser th moon disturber , this becomes : ( 17 Then collecting results from 166-7-9 , 170 ) , we have by ( 18 ) , ( 17 This gives the additional terms due to bodily in the equation for , vig the third of ( 133 ) : the viscosity be small where ( 17 Also we have from ( 160-2-4-8 ) to the present order of approximation , and by symmetry , Therefore by ( 18 ) - THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Now let ( 174 ) Then the four equations ( 139 ) , ( 149 ) , ( 158 ) , and ( 171 ) may be written ( 175 ) Ako from ( 151 ) and ( 173 ) These six equations ( 175-6 ) contain all the secular inequalities in the motions of the noon and earth , due to the bodily tides raised by the sun and moon , as far as is toaterial for the present investigation .
The terms which are omitted only represent very small displacement of the proper planes and of the inclinations of the planes of motion of the two parts of the system to those proper planes .
Then reverting to the earlier notation in which ( 177 ) We easily find These equations contain the additional terms due to tides , which are to be add to the equations ( 116 ) , in order to find the secular displacements of the proper planes The first application , which will be made hereafter , will be to the case where viscosity is small , and it will be more convenient to make the transition to that hypo thesis at present , although the greater part of what follows in this part will be equal ) applicable whatever may be the viscosity .
In the case of small viscosity th functions will be indicated by the corresponding small letters , 8 , Then by ( 140 ) , ( 150 ) , ( 159 ) , we shall have where And in the present case where and are small , we have by ( 112 ) and ( 121 ) where , the permanent eUipticity of the earth These equations ( 180 ) are the same whether the viscosity be supposed small or Then the complete equations are THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
( 181 ) If the viscosity be not small we have in place of , @ , .
As it is lore convenient to write small letters than capitals , in the whole of the next section be small letters will be employed , although the same investigation would be equally pplicable with , \amp ; c. , in place of , \amp ; c. The terms in , @ , are small compared with those in , and may be eglected as a first approximation .
Also vary slowly in consequence of tidal eaction , tidal friction , and the consequent change of ellipticity of the earth , but as a rst approximation they may be treated as constant .
Then if we put ( 182 ) By ( 122 ) or ( 118 ) the first approximation is where ( 183 ) Before considering the secular changes in the constants of integration , it ] be convenient to take one other step .
The equation of tidal friction ( 173 ) may be written approximately ( 184 ) scause will be nearly equal to as long as is not small compared ith .
( See however S22 , Part Iy .
) Also the equation of tidal reaction ( 151 ) is ( 1S Dividing one by the other and putting , we have and integrating , ( 1@ This is the equation of conservation of moment of momentum of the moon-ear system , as modified by solar tidal friction .
From it we obtain in terms of S 15 .
On the secular changes of the constants of integration .
It is often found difficult on first reading a long analytical investigation to trace th general method amidst the mass of detail , and it is only at the end that the rulin idea is perceived ; in such circumstances it has often appeared to me that a prehminar sketch would be of great service to the reader .
I shall act on this idea here , an consider some simple equations analogous to those to be treated .
Let the equations be If be constant , the solution is obviously Now suppose to be slowly varying ; put therefore for , and treat constants .
Then Differentiating .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The terms on the right-hand side of these equations are small , because they involve and therefore we may substitute in them from the first approximation .
Hence nd a similar equation for The solution of this equation is The terms depending on cut one another out , and sin Similarly we should find The terms in are obviously equivalent to a change in , the phase of the oscillation ; but the amplitude is unaffected .
We might have arrived at this conclusion about the amplitude if , in solving the differential equations , we had neglected in the solutions the terms depending on , as will be done in considering our equations below .
In those equations , however , we shall not find that the terms in annihilate one another , and thus there will be a change of amplitude .
That this conclusion concerning amplitude is correct , may be seen from the fact that the rigorous solution of the equations Whence is unaffected , whilst So that Next consider the equations Where is constant , but is a very small quantity compared with , but whi may vary slowly .
Treat as constant , and differentiate , and we have Then if we neglect , we have the first approximation Substituting these values for on the right , we have And a similar equation for ?
The solutions are From this we see that , if we desire to retain the first approximation as the solutio we must have ( 18 This will be true if varies slowly ; hence and the solution is It is easy to verify that these are the rigorous solutions of the equations , when constant but varies .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The equation ( 187 ) gives the rate of change of amplitude of oscillation .
The cases which we have now considered , by the method of variation of parameters , closely analogous to those to be treated below , and have been treated in the same , so that the reader will be able to trace the process .
They are in fact more than simply analogous , for they are what our equations 81 ) become if the obliquity of the ecliptic be zero and .
In this case , and This shows that the secular change of figure of the earth , and secular changes the rate of revolution of the moon 's nodes do not affect the rate of alteration of the nclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic , so long as bhe obliquity is zero .
This last esult contains the implicit assumption that the perturbing influence of the moon on he earth is not so large , but that the obliquity of the equator may always remain mall , however the lunar nodes vary .
In an exactly similar manner we may show that , the inclination of the lunar orbit be zero , di/ dti@ .
This is the result of the previous paper " " On the Precession of a Viscous Spheroid hen the obliquity is small .
According to the method which has been sketched , the equations to be integrated are given in ( 181 ) , when we write for for for for and then treat , \amp ; c. , , \amp ; c. , , \amp ; c. , as constants .
Before proceeding to consider the equations , it will be convenient to find certain relations between the quantities \amp ; c. , and the two roots and of the quadratic We have supposed the two roots to be such that . . . . . . . . . .
( 189 ) ( 190 ) ( 191 ) .
Now suppose our equations ( 181 ) to be written as follows : Where comprise all the terms involving , \amp ; c. , , \amp ; c. Then if we write ( z ) as a type of as a type of as a typ of as a type of , @ , ; and ( s ) as a type of ; it is clea that ( s ) is .
Differentiate each of the equations ( 194 ) , and substitute for after differa tiation .
Then if we write The result is From the first of these THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore from the third by ( 190 ) Similarly ( 197 ) Differentiate the first of ( 196 ) twice , using the first of ( 197 ) , and we have Therefore by ( 190 ) Then writing ( S ) as a type of ( S ) is of the type Hence every term of ( S ) contains some small term , either or ( ) .
Therefore on the right-hand side of the above equation we may substitute for ( z ) the first approximation , viz. : given in ( 182-3 ) .
When this substitution is carried out , let , ) be the parts of ( S ) which contain all terms of the speeds and respectively .
Then by ( 191 ) and ( 193 ) the right-hand side in the above equation may be written same with 2 and 1 interchanged .
Now let stand for the operation , and we have hDCCCLXXX .
same with 2 and 1 reversed The last three of these equations are to be found by a parallel process , or else 1 symmetry .
If the right hand sides of ( 198 ) be neglected , we clearly obtain , on integration , first approximation ( 183 ) for .
This first approximation was origind obtained by mere inspection .
We now have to consider the effects of the small terms on the right on constants of integration introduced in the first approximation .
The small terms on the right are , by means of the first approximation , capable being arranged in one of the alternative forms same with 2 for 1 Now consider the differential equation First suppose that is zero , so that the term in exists alone .
Assume as the solution .
Then By substitution in ( 199 ) , with , we have Therefore the solution is THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE : lly writing for , we see that a term A in the differential equation old generate in the solution .
From this theorem it follows that the solution of the equation same with 2 and 1 interchanged the solution of same with 2 and 1 interchanged Also ( writing the two alternatives by means of an easily intelligible notation ) the solutions of are the same with 2 and 1 interchanged The similar equations for may be treated in the same way .
The general rule is that and in the differential equations generate the solution respectively ; and and generate and respectively ; the terms to be divided by or 2 as the case be .
Next suppose that in the equation ( 199 ) , and assume as the solution Then sin Then substituting in ( 199 ) , we must have and Whence Hence the solution of ( 199 ) , when , is If be very smaJl , the second of these terms may be neglected .
By writing for , we see that a term in the differentia equation , would have given rise in the solution to being very small .
By this theorem we see that the solutions of the two alternative differentia equations are , when is very small , \mdash ; the same with 2 and 1 interchanged .
The similar equations for may be treated similarly .
The general is that : and in the equations reproduced , but with an opposite sign the solution ; are reproduced with the opposite sign ; and the solution the terms are to be multiplied by For the purpose of future developments it will be more convenient to write the factors in the forms and THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
By means of these two rules we see that the solutions of the two alternative fferential equations same with 2 for 1 ( 200 ) long as is very small , same with 2 and 1 interchanged ( 201 ) Then putting for \amp ; c. , their values from ( 182 ) , these solutions may be written , same with 2 for 1 ( 202 ) Hence we may retain the first approximation the solution , provided that and are no longer constant , but vary in such a that ( 203 ) and a similar equation for It will be found , when we come to apply these results , that the solution of the uation for will lead to the same equations for the variation of and as are erived from the equation for A similar treatment may be .
applied to the equations for or , and we find milar differential equations for and These equations will be the differential equations for the secular changes in and , which are the constants of integration in the first approximation .
We will now apply these theorems to the differential equations ( 181 ) ; but as the nalysis is rather complex , it will be more convenient to treat the variations of and the terms in , 8 , independently .
will indicate by the symbol the additional terms which arise , and will write the symbol out of which the term arises as a suffix\mdash ; e. , we shall write ffi additional terms in the complete value of , which arise from the variation of will be written for the terms in which arise from the variation of Terms depending on the variation of We now put for in ( 181 ) Hence in ( 194 ) Therefore And by substitution from ( 182-3 ) have similar forms with 2 for 1 .
Then ( 20 Hence the equation for is same with 2 for 1 .
Hence by the rules found above for the solution of such an equation Whence THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
If we form and , and solve the equation for , we obtain the same results .
Again by ( 204 ) Hence the equation for is same with 2 for 1 And by the rules of solution Since Hence ( 206 ) If we form and , and solve the equation for , we obtain the same result .
Terms depending on the variation of The results may be written down by symmetry .
and are symmetrical with and , and therefore unaccented 's are symmetrical with accented ones , and is symmetrical with , and vice-versd .
suffixes 1 and 2 remain unaffected by the symmetry .
MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THE SECULAR GHiS IN Then ( by ( 192 ) ) writing for and respectively , have by symmetry with ( 206 ) , ( 20 And by symmetry with ( 205 ) , ( 20 Terms depending on the of We now put for a in ( 181 ) Then in ( 194 ) Therefore have similar forms with 2 for 1 ( 20 Hence the equation for is same with 2 for 1 , since THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore ( 210 ) Again by ( 209 ) Also Therefore the equation for is same with 2 for 1 Therefore Therefore ( 211 ) The same results might have been obtained from the equations to Terms depending on the variation of By symmetry with ( 211 ) ( 212 ) By symmetry with ( 210 ) , and putting for and for . . .
We now come to a different class of terms , viz. : those depending on , @ , NDCCCLXXX .
Terms depending on 7 .
Here have similar forms with 2 for 1 Obviously ( 214 Hence the equation for is same for 1 Therefore And Again And the equation for is the same with 2 for 1 Therefore , since THE OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITHi .
Hence ( 216 ) Terms depending on @ .
These may be written down by symmetry .
-@ is symmetrical with 7 .
Hence writing for , we have by symmetry with ( 216 ) ( 217 ) And by symmetry with ( 215 ) ( 218 ) depending on Here have similar forms with 2 for 1 Clearly Therefore the equation for is same with 2 for 1 hence , since Therefore Again and by ( 219 ) Therefore the equation for is the same with 2 for 1 gb Hence Therefore ( 221 The same results may be obtained by means of the equations for Terms depending on These may be written down by symmetry .
is symmetrical with .
Therefore by symmetry with ( 221 ) .
( 22 and by symmetry with This completes the consideration of the effects on the constants of integrati of all the small terms .
Then collecting results from ( 205-8 , 210-13 , 215-18 , 220-23 ) , THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
\fnof ; m ( 224 ) We shall now show that these four equations are equivalent to two only , and in showing this shall verify the correctness of the results .
To that the four equations ( 224 ) are eqnivalent to two .
In ( 118 ) we showed that Therefore we ought to find that Now by ( 188 ) and that And thus we ought to find that , Now if we subtract the first of equations ( 224 ) from the third we shall find relation to be satisfied .
Hence the first and third equations are equivalent to only single one .
Similarly it may be proved that the second and third equations are similar related .
To prove the four to those of S6 , )the nodes revolv with velocity .
It appears from S13 that when a and are small compared with , the node revolve with approximate uniformity , and the nutations of the system are small If this be the case , we have approximately It will appear later that , are quantities of the same of magnitude as , @ , Now , the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane , and , th inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic .
Therefore , the first and last of equations ( 224 ) become But since the nodes revolve uniformly , and are small , and there fore the latter terms of these equations are negligeable compared with the former .
Hence These results in no way depend on the assumption of the smallness of the viscod of the planet , and therefore we may substitute and ( see ( 174 ) ) for and 8 .
A comparison of the expressions for and , with those given in Part II .
for and in my previous paper for , will show that our present equations for and are what the previous ones reduce to , when and are small .
But comparison shows more than this , for it shows that what the equation ( 61 ) S real gives is the rate of change of the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane , that the equation ( 66 ) of the paper on ' Precession\ldquo ; really gives the rate of change the inclination of the earth 's proper plane ( or mean equator ) to the ecliptic .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
To how the equations ( 224 ) reduce to those of S10 .
We now pass to the other extreme , and suppose the solar influence infinitesimal mpared with that of oblateness .
Here , @ Then the equations ( 224 ) reduce to a(ab ) ( 225 ) Therefore and are constant .
Also from the ionship between them Hence it follows that the two proper planes axe identical with one and are fixed in space .
They are , in fact , the invariable plane of the system , as appears as follows:\mdash ; If we use the notation of S10 , , and ; so that Now , and and are by hypothesis small , therefore we may write the relationship between in the form This proves that the two coincident planes fixed in space are identical with the hvariable plane of the system ( see 108 ) .
But the identity of equations ( 225 ) with ( 71 ) of S 10 and ( 29 ) of the paper on Precession\ldquo ; remains to be proved .
If and be treated as small , those equations are in effect 01 with and in place of and if the viscosity be not small ) .
Hence if ( 225 ) are identical with ( 71 ) and ( 29 ) of ' ' Precession we must have But ; therefore the condition for the identity of ( 225 ) with ( 71 ) and " " Precession\ldquo ; is that Or if the viscosity be not small , a similar equation with and for and We cannot prove that this condition is satisfied until and have been evaluated but it will be proved later in S 16 .
This discussion shows that the obliquity of the earth 's equator to the invariabl plane of the moon-earth system , when the solar influence is infinitesimal , degrades int the itude of the nineteen-year ] nutation , when the influence of oblateness infinitesimal .
The one quantity is strictly continuous with the other .
This completes the verification of the differential equations ( 224 ) in the two extrem cases .
S 16 .
of , in the case of tloe earth 's viscosity .
The preceding section does not involve any hypothesis to the constitution of earth , but it will now be supposed to be viscous , and the various functions , whio occur in ( 224 ) , will be evaluated .
By ( 184-5 ) we have ( 22 ( 29 The last equation is approximate , for by writing it in this form we are neglecti compared with unity .
This is legitimate , because when is not very small , very small , and vice-versd ; see however S22 .
Hence ( 228 ) may be written THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Let ( 230 ) is the ratio of the moment of momentum of the earth 's rotation to that of tho orbital motion of moon and round their common centre of inertia .
( The of my paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; is equal to the reciprocal of , where is the value of when ) By ( 121 ) and ( 112 ) we have , Now , the ellipticity of the earth due to rotation ; and as and Hence Differentiating logarithmically ( 231 ) Also since . .
( 232 ) ( 233 ) Then by ( 121 ) and ( 112 ) Since , and is constant ( or at least varies so slowly that we may neglect its variation ) , we have Now , hence Therefore NDCCCLXXX .
From ( 233-4 ) ( 235 Also ( 236 By ( 121 ) and ( 112 ) ( 237 Therefore ( 23 And ( 239 From ( 231 ) and ( 288 ) ( 240 By ( 121 ) and ( 112 ) .
( 24 Therefore ( 24 Lastly By ( 174 ) , ( 227 ) , and ( 230 ) , when the viscosity is not small , we have THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
( 244 ) If the viscosity be small we have by ( 179 ) , ( 227 ) , and ( 245 ) I think no confusion will arise between the distinct uses made of the symbol in ( 244 ) and ( 245 ) ; in the first it always must occur with a sine , the second it never can do so .
[ If be zero by ( 232 ) , ( 237 ) , ( 240 ) '\mdash ; ' Therefore we have This was shown in ( 226 ) to be the criterion that the differential equations ( 224 ) should reduce to those of ( 71 ) and of ( 29 ) of ' Precession when the solar influence is evanescent , and the above is the promised proof thereof .
] MR. G. H. DARWIN ON THHi SECULAR CHANGES IN From ( 244 ) , ( 237 ) , and ( 232 ) we have ( 24 and similarly ( 24 S 17 .
Change of independent variable , and of equations for integration .
In the equations ( 224 ) the time is the independent variable , but in order integrate we shall require to be the variable .
It has been shown above that these equations are equivalent to only two of them ; henceforth therefore we shall on consider the first and last of them .
It will also serve to keep before us the meaning of the , if the notation be changed ; the following notation ( which ha been already used in ( 127 ) ) will be adopted : \mdash ; inclination of the lunar orbit to the lunar proper plane .
inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic .
I , inclination of the equator to the earth 's proper plane .
tfle inclination of the lunar proper plane to the ecliptic .
Then since , \amp ; c. , are small , we may wlite ( 248 This particular transformation is chosen because in Part IT .
, where and were no small , seemed to arise naturally .
Also since we have .
( 249 These equations will give I , and , when and I are found .
Now suppose we divide the first and last of ( 224 ) by , then their left-han sides may be written and THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT A SATELLITE .
In last section we have determined the functions , \amp ; c. , and have them in oh a form that have all a common factor But this is the expression by which we have to divide the equations in order to hang the variable .
Therefore in computing , \amp ; c. ( or .
\amp ; c we may drop this common factor .
Again were so written as all to have a common factor ; therefore 1 and also have the same common factor .
Also all have a common factor .
From this it follows that when the variable is changed , we may drop the factor om and the factor from Hence the differential equations with the new variable become ( 250 ) or similar equations with in place of , @ , if the viscosity be not small .
But we now have by ( 232-3-5-6-7-9 , 242-3-4-5-6-7 ) ( 251 ) In these equations we have , recapitulating the notation Also ffl Lastly we have by ( 186 ) ( 25 which gives parallel values of and These equations will be solved by quadratures for the case of the moon and earth Part Iy .
If be so small as to be negligeable , and small compared with unity , the equations ( 250 ) admit of reduction to a simple form .
With this hypothesis it is easy to find approximate values of and , and then some easy , but rather tedious analysis , it may be shown that ( 250 ) reduce to th following\mdash ; These equations would give the secular changes of and I , when the solar influen is very small compared with that of the moon .
Of course if be replaced by they are applicable to the case of small It is remarkable that the changes of I are independent of the viscosity ; they depae in fact solely on the secular change in the permanent ellipticity of the earth .
IV .
INTEGRATION OF THE DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS FOR CHANGES IN THE INCLINATION OF THE ORBIT AND THE OBLIQUITY OF THE ECLIPTIC .
S18 .
Integration in the case of viscosity , where the nodes revolve unifopmly It is not , even at the present time , rigorously true that the nodes of the lunar revolve uniformly on the ecliptic and that the inclination of the orbit is constant ; it is very nearly true , and the integration may be carried backwards in time for a way without an important departure from accuracy .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The integrations will be carried out by the method of quadratures , and the process ill be divided into a series of " " periods of integration as explained in S 15 and 17 of the paper on " " Precession These periods will be the same as those in that per , and the previous numerical work will be used as far as possible .
It will be und , however , that it is not sufficiently accurate to assume the uniform revoluon of the nodes beyond the first two periods of integration .
For these first two eriods the equations of S 7 , Part II .
, will be used ; bub for the further retrospect we have to 1oake the transition to the methods of Part III .
It is important to defer be transition as long as possible , because Part III .
assumes the smallness of and hilst Part II .
does not do so .
By ( 104 ) and ( 86 ) of Part II .
we have , when , and is neglected , If we put , and neglect , these be written ( 256 ) If we treat and as unity in the small terms in , and , ( 256 ) my differ from ( 88 ) of ' ' Precession\ldquo ; in that has a factor and has factor Again by ( 64 ) and ( 70 ) If we divide the second of ( 256 ) by the second of ( 257 ) we get equation for , which only differs from ( 84 ) of ' Precession\ldquo ; in the presence of in place of nity in certain of the small terms .
Now is small for the lunar orbit ; hence the quation ( 88 ) of ' ' Precession\ldquo ; for the conservation of moment of momentum is very arly true .
The equation is , with present notation , In this equation we attribute to , as it occurs on the right-hand side , an avera value .
By means of this equation , I had already computed a series of values of corre ponding to equidistant values of On dividing the first of ( 256 ) by the second of ( 257 ) we get an expression which differs from the of ( 84 ) of " " Precession\ldquo ; by the presence of a commo factor , and by occurring in some of the small terms .
Hence we may without much error , accept the results of the integration for in S17 of " " Precession Lastly , dividing the first of ) by the second , we have .
( 259 This equation has now to be integrated by quadratures .
All the numerical values were already computed for S17 of " " Precession and on required to be combined .
The present mean inclination of the lunar orbit is , so that .
I theq conjecture as a proper mean value to be assigned to , as it occurs on the rights hand side of ( 259 ) for the first period of integration , which extends from to First period of integration .
From to 88 , four equidistant values were computed .
From the computation for S17 of Precession\ldquo ; I extract the following .
Then introducing , I find THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Combining these four values by the rules of the calculus of finite differences , we This is equal to .
Taking find Second period oj integration .
From to 76 , four equidistant values were computed .
From the computation for S17 " " Precession I extract the following:\mdash ; Then assuming as an average value for , I find Combining these , we have This is equal to from the first period , we \amp ; d This completes the integration , as far as it is safe to employ the methods of Part II .
In Part III .
it was proved that , in the case where the nodes revolve uniformly , llquations ( 224 ) reduce to those of Part II .
But it was also shown that what the Oquations of Part II .
really give is the change of the inclination of the lunar orbit to be lunar proper plane ; also that the equations of Precession really give the change the inclination of the mean equator ( that is of the earth 's proper plane ) to the cliptic .
CLXXX .
The results of the present integration are embodied in the following table , of the first three columns are taken from the table in S17 of ' ' Precession We will now consider what amount of oscillation the equator and the plane of thr lunar orbit undergo , as the nodes revolve , in the initial and final conditions represented in the above table .
It appears from ( 119 ) that oscillates between , and that oscillates between , where and are the meal values of and.j .
With the numerical values corresponding to the initial condition ( that is to say in the present configurations of earth , moon , and sun ) , it will be foumd on substituting in ( 115 ) and ( 112 ) , with instead of simply , that when the present tropical year is the unit of time .
Since is very small compared with , it follows that we have to a clos degree of approximation Then since , it follows that oscillates betwu , and etween .
Let @j and @i be the oscillations of and on each side of the mean , tk 8 and 8 .
Hence in seconds of arc THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Reducing these to numbers with .
we have Hence , if the earth were homogeneous , at the present time we should have @j as the inclination of the proper plane of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic , and as the amplitude of the 19-yearly nutation .
These are very small angles , and therefore initially the ethod of Part II .
was applicable .
The formulas here used for the amplitude of the 19-yearly nutation and for the inclination of the lunar proper plane to the ecliptic differ so much from those given by other writers that it will be well to prove their identity .
LAPLACE chap .
gives as the inclination of the proper plane to the ecliptic Here is the earth 's ellipticity , and is my is the ratio of equatorial centrifugal force to gravity , and is my , it is therefore when the earth is homogeneous .
Thus his my .
His is the ratio of the angular velocity of the nodes to that of the moon , and is therefore my .
His is the earth.s mean radius , and is my .
His is the moon 's mean distance , and is my .
His is the obliquity , and is my .
Thus his formula is in my notation .
Now my , and Therefore the formula becomes But by Therefore it becomes Now by and ( 112 ) , when Therefore in my notation LAPLACE'S result for the inclination of the lunar proper plane to tho ecliptic is This agrees with the result ( 260 ) in the text , from which the amount of oscillation of lunar orbit was computed , save as to the .
Since is small the discrepancy is slight , and I believe my for1n to be the more accurate .
states that the inclination is ( centesimal ) if the earth be heterogeneous , and ( centesimal ) if homogeneous .
Since ( centes .
) , this result agrees very closely with The difference of LAPLACE'S data explains discrepancy .
If it be desired to apply my formula to the heterogeneous earth we must take of my , because the of the formula ( 6 ) for will be replaced by nearly .
Also , which is , must be replaced by the Precessional constant , which.is 003272 .
Hence my previous result in the text must be multiplied by $ of or 6326 .
This factor reduces the of the text to 8 ' result ( centes .
) is .
Hence there is a small discrepancy in the results ; but it must be remembered value of the actual ellipticity ( 1/ 334 instead of 1/ 295 ) of the earth was conside.rably Qrror .
The more correct result is I think , The amount of this inequality was found by BUEG and Now consider the final condition .
Since the integrations of the two periods have extended from to8@ , from to 76 , also the value of which gives the day of 9 .
is given by , when the year is the unit of time .
We now have Using these values in ( 115 ) and ( 112 ) , I find ab is still small compared with , but not negligeable .
Then by ( 117 ) also Now Hence we have BURCKHABDT from the combined observations of BRADLEY and MASKELYNE to be ' Hist. Ph. Astr 1852 , p. 65 ) .
For the amplitude of the 19-yearly nutation , AIRY gives ( ' Math. Tracts , ' 1858 , article " " On Procossi and Nutation p. is the precess .
const .
; his my ; his ; his ; his ; his and his is the period of revolution of the nodes , and therefore my Then since my , the above in my notation is Now by ( 115 ) and ( 112 ) , when Therefore his result in my notation is This is the result used above ( in 260 ) for computing the nutations of the earth .
If my formula is to be used for the heterogeneous earth , must be replaced by the precessional oon# and therefore the result in the text must be multiplied by or 759 .
Hence for the ht8 geneous earth the be reduced to .
AIBY computes it as , but says the amount is 9 ' , but he takes the precessional constant as 00317 , and the moon 's mass as of of the earth .
I believe that and are more in iiccordance with the now accepted vier astronomers .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
and have now come to differ a little from and , but still not much .
With these values I find Substituting in the formulas a ' I find @j5 Thus the oscillation of the lunar orbit has increased from to nearly a degree , and that of the equator from to It is clear therefore that we have carried out the integration by the method of Part II .
, as far back in retrospect as is proper , even for a speculative investigation like the present one .
We shall here then make the transition to the method of Part III .
Henceforth the formulas used regard the inclination and obliquity as small angles ; the obliquity is still however so large that this is not very satisfactory .
S19 .
Secular changes in the proper planes of the earth mootl where the viscosity is small .
We now take up the integration , at the point where it stops in the last section , by the method of Part III .
The viscosity is still supposed to be small , so that , @ , ( as defined in ( 251 ) ) must be taken in place of , which refer to any viscosity .
The equations are ready for the application of the method of quadratures in ( 250 ) , and the symbols are defined in ( 251-4 ) .
The method pursued is to assume a series of equidistant values of , and then to compute all the functions , substitute them in ( 250 ) , and combine the equidistant values of the functions to be integrated the rules of the calculus of finite differences .
The preceding integration terminates where the day is 9 , and the moon 's sidereal period is 8 . .
days .
If the present tropical year be the unit of time , we have , at the beginning of the present integration and being of ( 7 ) .
The first step is to compute a series of values , by means of ( 254 ) .
As a fact , I had already corresponding to , 92 , 84 , 76 for the paper on Precession by means of a formula , which took account of the obliquity of the ecliptic ; and accordin I computed , by the same formula , for the values of , 80 , instead of doing the whole operation by means of ( 254 ) .
The difference between lluy results here used and those from ( 254 ) would be very nall .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The method pursued in the integration of the preceding section proceeds virtually the assumption that the term is the on important one in the expression for , and that the term is the only important one in the expression for Now when , at the beginning of the present integration , we see from Table III .
that the said term in is about 22 times as large as any other occurring in and that the said term in 8 is about 16 times as large as any other which occurs in .
Hence the preceding integration must have given fairly satisfactory results .
But after the first column these terms in and @ fail to maintain their relative importance , so that when , they have both become considerably less important than other terms\mdash ; notably and .
This is exactly what is to be expected , because the equations are tending towards the form which they would take if the influence were nil , and an inspection of ( 225 ) shows that these terms would then be prominent .
Now if we combine these values of the several terms together according to ( 250 ) , we obtain the seven equidistant values of and exhibited in the following table:\mdash ; By interpolation it appears that vanishes when .
This value of corresponds with 8 .
for the riod of the earth 's rotation , and .
days for the period of the moon 's revolution .
Since is negative in our integration , we see from these values that I , the inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic , will continue diminishing , and with increasing rapidity .
On the other hand , the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane will. .
increase at first , but at a diminishing rate , and will finally diminish .
This is a point of the greatest importance in explaining the present inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic , and we shall recur to it later on .
Now combine the first four values by the rule of finite differences , viz. : nd an seven by WEDDLE'S rule , viz. : Where is our , and the 's are the several numbers given in the above Table IV .
; then we have , on integration from 1 to 88 , lo and on integration from 1 to 76 Then if we take , which are in round numbers the final values of and I derived from the first method of integration , we easily find , when and when Then we have by ( 249 ) Now is always unity , and the logarithms of and are given Table II .
; from this we find when when By the same formula , when initially , we have .
These results ought to be identical with the results from ( 260 ) of the last section ; and th are so very nearly , for at the end of the integration we had @i22 ' 43 @j5 $1 The small discrepancy which exists is partly due to the assumed smallness of and the present investigation , and also to our having taken the values and for and instead of The value gives the length of day as 8 , and the moon 's period as .
days .
The value gives the day as 7 hrs .
49 , and the moon 's sidereal period .
days .
This value of brings us to the point specified as the end of third period of integration in S 17 of the paper on " " Precession There is one other point which it will be interesting to determine , \mdash ; it is to find rate of the precessional motion of the node of the two proper planes on the eolipt and the rate of the motion of the nodes of the equator and orbit upon their respecti proper planes .
By means of the preceding .
numerical values , it will be easy to these quantities at the epochs specified by , 88 , 76 .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The period of the preoession of the two proper planes is , and that of the recession of the two nodes on their proper planes is .
In the preceding computations we omitted a common factor from ; this factor must now be reintroduced .
is a constant and then by means of the numerical values given in the first table I find .
Also 9.53295 is given before in Table II .
Then introducing the omitted factor I find .
88 76 Thus both precessional movements on the whole increase in rapidity ( because of the increasing value of ) , but the rate of the precession of the pair of proper planes increases all through , whilst that of the precession on the proper planes diminishes and then increases .
It was pointed out towards the end of S13 that is , so to speak , the ancestor of the luni-solar precession , and the ancestor of the revolution of the moon 's nodes .
Hence the 988 years has bred ( to continue the metaphor ) the present 26,000 years of the precessional period , and the 60 years has bred the present years of the revolution of the moon 's nodes .
We see that the precession attains a minimum at a certain period being more rapid , both earlier and later .
All the above results will be colIected and arranged in a tabular form , after further results have been obtained by means of an integration , carrying out the investigation into the more remote past .
The tidal and precessional effects of the sun 's influence have now become exceedingly 0Llall , and the only way in which the sun continues to exert a sensible effect is in its tendency to make the nodes of the lunar orbit revolve on the ecliptic .
In the analysis therefore we may now treat as zero everywhere , except where it occurs in the form .
Since and 1 are both pretty small , these terms in rise in importance .
The equation of conservation of moment of momentum now becomes Here is equal to the value of in the preceding integration when ; and Tben we now have , @d , , @ 'd ' , but and are not qual to a and IDCCCLXXX .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A Combining these terms according to the formulas ( 250 ) , we have TABLE VII .
By interpolation it appears that vanishes when .
This value of corresponds with 7 .
for the period of the earth 's rotation , .
days for the period of the moon 's revolution .
By the rules of the calculus of finite differences , integrating from to 88 , Then with from the previous integration , we have When , the length of the day is 7 hrs .
15 , and the moon 's sidereal period is .
days .
Also I , Thus we have traced the changes back until the inclination of the proper planes to one another is only or 1o 18 ' In the same way as before it may be shown that , when , the period of the precession of the proper planes is 609 years , and the period of the revolution of the two nodes on their moving proper planes is 22 years .
The former of the two precessions is therefore at this stage getting slower , whilst the latter goes on increasing in speed .
The physical results of the whole integration of the present section is embodied in the following table .
TABLE VIII.\mdash ; Results of integration in the case of small viscosity .
If the integration is to be carried still further back , the solar aotion may be neglected , and the motion may be referred to the invariable plane of the syste This plane undergoes a precessional motion due to the sun , which will not interfe with the treatment of it as though fixed .
It is inclined to the ecliptic at abo , because , at the time when we suppose the solar action to cease , the mome of momentum of the earth 's rotation is larger than that of orbital motion , and therefo the earth 's proper plane represents the invariable plane of the system more nearly tha does the moon 's proper plane .
The inclination of the equator to the invariable plane must be taken as about and that of the lunar orbit as something like .
The ratio of the two angle and must be equal to , which is , the ratio of the moment of momentu of the earth 's rotation to that of orbital motion , at the point where the precedin integration ceases .
Then in the more remote past the angle will continue to diminish , until the poin is reached where the moon 's period is about 12 hours and that of the earth 's rotatio about 6 hours .
The angle will conti ue increasing at an accelerating rate .
may be shown as follows :\mdash ; The equations of motion are now those of Part II .
, which may be written But since , they become ( Compare with the first of equations ( 255 ) given in Part , when ) These equations are not independent , because of the relationship which must always pubsist between and Then substituting from ( 251 ) we have for case of small viscosity THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Integrating as in the last section , from to 88 , we have Taking , we have These values COlTespond to I , Again integrating from to 76 , we have These give , which correspond to I , The integration will now be continued over another period , as in the last section .
The following are the results of the computations .
Substituting these values in the differential equations ( 250 ) , we have the following quidistant values : TABLE XIV .
Then integrating from to 88 we have Then putting and , from the previous integration , we have These values of and I give The physical meaning of the results of the whole integration is embodied in the following table .
TABLE XV.\mdash ; Results of integration in the case of large viscosity .
If we compare these results with those in Table VIII .
for the case of smaU viscosit we see that the inclinations of the two proper planes to one another and to the eclipti are almost the same as before , but there is here this important distinction , viz. : tha the inclinations of the two moving systems to their respective proper planes is les ( compare with , and with And besides , if we had carried the integration , in the case of small viscosity , back we should have found the inclination of the lunar orbit increasing .
It will now be shown ttrat , in the present case of large viscosity , the inclinations THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
he equator and the orbit to their proper planes will continue to diminish , as the square oot of the moon 's distance diminishes , and at an increasing rate .
Suppose that , in continuing the integration , the solar influence be entirely neglected , and the motion referred to the invariable plane of the system .
This plane will be in some position intermediate between the two proper planes , but a little nearer to the earth 's plane , and will therefore be inclined to the ecliptic at about The equations of motion are now those of S10 , Part II .
, which may be written But since , they become tau ( compare with the first of equations ( 255 ) given in Part III .
, when ) .
These equations are not independent of one another , because of the relationship which must always subsist between and Then substituting ffom ( 263 ) which zero , written we have for the case of large viscosity When is infinite , and therefore both and are infinite .
This result is physically absurd .
The absurdity enters by supposing that an infinitely slow tide ( viz. : that of speed can lag in such a way as to have its angle of lagging nearly equal to The correct physical hypothesis , for values of nearly equal to , is to suppose the lag small for the tide , but large for the other tides .
Hence when is nearly , we ought to put , but Then we should have The last term in each of these expressions involves a small factor both in numerato and denominator , viz. : because nearly , and , because the viscosity large .
The evaluation of these terms depends on the actual degree of viscosity , bu all that we are now concerned with is the fact that when the true physical resul is that changes sign by passing through zero and not infinity , and that does th same for some value of not far removed from Now consider the function .
The following results are not stated retro .
spectively , and when it is said that or increase or decrease , it is meant increase decrease as or increases .
From to the function is negative .
Hence for these values of the inclination decreases , or zero inclination dynamically stable .
When it is infinite ; but we have already remarked on this case .
From to it is positive .
Therefore for these of the inclination increases , or zero inclination dynamically unstable .
It vanishes when ( iii .
) From to it is negative .
Therefore for these values of the inclination decreases , or zero inclination dynamically stable .
Next consider the function ( iv .
) From to it is positive .
Therefore for these values of the obliquity increases , or zero obliquity dynamically unstable .
It vanishes when From to it is negative .
Therefore for these values of the ] iquity i decreases , or zero obliquity dynamically stable .
When it is infinite ; but we have already renlarked on this case .
( vi .
) From to it is positive .
Therefore for these values of the increases , or zero dynamically unstable , THE ELh'MENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore from to 809 the inclination decreases and the obliquity oreases .
From to5 both inclination and obliquity decrease .
From to 191 both inclination and obliquity increase .
From to the inclination decreases and the obliquity increases .
Now at the point where the above retrospective integration stopped , the moon 's riod was days or 59 hours , and the day was hours ; hence at this point , which falls between 191 and 5 .
Hence both inclination and obliquity decrease retrospectively at a rate which tends to become infinite when we approach , if the viscosity be infinitely great .
For large , but not infinite , viscosity the rates become large and then rapidly decrease in the neighbourhood of From this it foIlows that by supposing the viscosity large enough , the obliquity and inclination may be made as small as we please , when we arrive at the point where It was shown in S 17 of " " Precession\ldquo ; that corresponds to a month of 12 hours and a day of 6 hours .
Between the values and 809 the solutions for both the cases of small and of large viscosity concur in showing zero obliquity and inclination as dynamically stable .
But between and 1 the obliquity is dynamically unstable for infinitely large , stable for infinitely smaU viscosity ; for these values of zero inclination is dynamically stable both for large and small viscosity .
From this it seems probable that for some large but finite viscosity , both zero inclination and zero obliquity would be dynamically stable for values of between 809 and umity .
It appears to me therefore that we have only to accept the hypothesis that the viscosity of the earth has always been pretty large , as it certainly is at present , to obtain a satisfactory explanation of the obliquity of the ecliptic and of the inclination of the lunar orbit .
This subject will be again discussed in the summary of Part VII , S21 .
illustrotion of the preceding A graphical illustration win much facilitate the comprehension of the numerical results of the last two sections .
The integrations which have been carried out by quadratures are of course equivalent to finding the areas of certain curves , and these curves will afford a convenient illustration of the nature of those integrations .
In SS19 , 20 two separate points of departure were taken , the first proceeding from to 76 , and the second from to 88 .
It is obvious that was referred to different initial values in the two integrations .
In order therefore to illustrate the rates of increase of and SI the preceding numerical results , we must either refer the second sets of 's to the initial value as the first set , or ( which will be simpler ) we may take aa independent variable .
Then for the values between and 76 , the ordinates of our lrvae will be numerical values given in Tables IV .
and XI .
, each divided by .
By the choice a proper scale of length , may be taken as unity .
For the values in the second integration from to 88 , the is the final of in the first integration .
Hence in order to draw the ordinates in the seco part of the curve to the same scale as those of the first , the numbers in Tables and XIV .
must be divided by 76 .
Also the second set of ordinates are not spaced out at the same intervals the first set , for the of the second integration is 76 of the of the fi integration .
Hence the ordinates given in the four Tables , IV .
, VII .
, XI .
, and XIV .
; are to drawn corresponding to the abscissae In fig. 7 these abscissae are marked off on the horizontal The first integration corresponds to the part , and the to the seven values of from 1 to 76 inclusive .
The second .
oorrespot to the part , and the values computed in Tables VIL and were to give the ordinates . .
The value for of the first is identical with that for second .
The integrations , which have been carried out , correspoffi to the areas lying between these curves and the horiwontal , klow esteemed negative .
The two curves for lie very close together , and we thus see that motion of the earth 's proper plane is almost independent of the ree of viscosity .
On the other hand , the two curves for ibn , siderably .
large viscosity the positive area is much larger than the negative , whilst for viscosity the positive area is a little smaller than the negative .
If the figure were extended further to the right , the two curves for I would become identical , and the .
would very smalL curves for the variation of would separate widely .
That .
for large siby go upwards in the positive direction , so that its ordinates would be infinite point corresponding to ; the curve for small viscosity would-go downwards negative direction , and the ordinates would be infinite at the point where In this figure OO ' is 6 centimeters , is centimelers , , and \amp ; b S22 .
The effecfs of solar tidal friction on the mitive condition of the earth moon .
In the paper on " " Precession S16 , I found , by the solution of a biquadrat equation , the primitive condition in which the earth and moon moved round togeth as a rigid body .
Since writing that paper certain additional considerations have occurred to which seem to be important in regard to the origin of the moon .
It was there remarked that , as we approach that critical condition of dynamica instability , the effects of solar tidal friction must have become sensible , because of relative motion of the moon and earth .
I did not at that time the ful significance of this , and I will now it further .
Suppose the moon to be moving orbitally nearly as fast as the earth .
The ] the tidal reaction , which depends on the lunar tides alone , must be very gmall , therefore the moon 's orbital motion increases retrospectively very .
slowly .
On other hand , the relative motion of the earth and sun is great , and therefore if approach the critical condition close enough , the solar tidal friction must have greater than the lunar , however great the viscosity of the planet .
The manner which this will affect the solution of the previous paper may be shown analytically follows .
If we neglect the obliquity , and divide the equation of tidal friction by that of tida leaction , and suppose the viscosity small , we have from ( 176 ) Then integrating we have If we do not carry the integration to near the critical phase , where is to the last integral is small , but it tends to become large as becomes nearly al to it has always been neglected in our ation .
When however we wish to app this equation to find the values for which is equal to , it cannot be Suppose the integ1al to be equal to K. Then in the first part of- expr sion we may put and we may neglect .
Hence .
the equati for finding the angular velocity of the two bodies at the critical phase , when THE ELEMHINTS THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The root of this equation , which gives the required phase , is nearly equal to the tlbe-root of the second coefficient , hence nearly .
Now in the paper on " " Precession " " we found the initial condition , on the hypothesis was zero .
Hence the effect of solar tidal friction is to increase the angular velocity of the two bodies when their relative motion is zero .
Since may be large , it follows that the disturbance of the of S 16 of " " Precession\ldquo ; may be considerable .
This therefore shows that it is probable that an accurate solution of our problem would differ considerably from that found in " " Precession and that the common angular velocity of the two bodies might have been very great .
If KEPLER'S law holds good , then the periodic time of the moon about the earth , when their centres are 6,000 miles , is 2 , and when 5,000 miles apart .
; hence when the two spheroids are just in contact , the time of revolution of the moon would be between 2 .
and Now it is a remarkable fact that the most rapid rate of revolution of a mass of fluid , of the same mean density as the earth , which is consistent with an ellipsoidal form of equilibrium , is 2 .
Is this a mere coincidence , or does it not rather point to the break-up of the primaeval planet into two masses in consequence of a too rapid rotation ?
is not possible to make an adequate consideration of the subject of this section without a treatment of the theory of the tidal friction of a planet attended by a pair of satenites .
It was shown above that if the moon were to move orbitally nearly as fast as the rotates , the solar tidal ffiction would be more important than the lunar , however near the moon might be to the earth .
I now ( September , 1880 ) find that the conuence of this is that the earth 's rotation continues to increase retrospectively , and the moon 's orbital motion does the same ; but the difference of the rotation and orbital * From this point to the end bas been added , and the f , ection otherwise abridged since the paper was esented .
September , 1880 .
motion gets continually less and less .
Meanwhile , the earth 's orbital motion round sun is continually increasing , and the distance from the sun decreasing retrospective Theoreticaly this would go on until the sun and moon ( treated as particles ) revo as though rigidly connected with the earth and with one another .
This is the figuration of maximum energy of the system .
The solution is physically absurd , because the distance of the two bodies from earth would then be very much lesa than the earth 's radius , and a fortiori than sun 's radius .
It must be observed , however , that in the retrospect the relative motion of the me and earth would already have become almost insensible , before the earth 's distaa from the sun could be sensibly affected .
V. SECULAR CHANGIIDS IN THE CENTRICrpy OF TIfE ORBIT .
S23 .
Formation of the disturbing function .
We will now consider the .
Jate of change in the eccentricity and mean distance orbit of a satellite , moving in an eliptic orbit , but always remaining in a fixed pk namely , the ecliptic ; and the rate of change of the obliquity of the planet'a when perturbed by such a satellite will also be found .
Up to the end of Part I. the investigation for the formation of the distwbi function was quite general , and we therefore resume the thread at that poink In the present problem the inclination of the satellite 's the ediptic and we have We thus get rid of the and functions , and henceforth will indicate longitude of the perigee .
Then by equations The same with sines for cosines The same with sines for cosines THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
By the definitions ( 29 ) Now let ( 264 ) Then The same when is substituted for ( 265 ) The same when is substituted for Hence all the terms of the five functions belong to one of the three types , or R. The equation to the ellipse described by the satellite Diana is ( 266 ) Hence ( 267 ) and Now by the theory of elliptic motion , the true longitude may be expressed in terms of and , in a series of ascending powers of the eccentricity .
Hence , , and may be expressed as the sum of a number of cosines of angles of the form , and in using these functions we shall require to make either a multiple of or zero , or to differ from a multiple of by a constant .
merefore the functions are expressible as the sums of a number of sines or Lbines of angles of the form Now X increases uniformly with the time ( being equal to constant ) ; hence , if CLXXX .
we regard the elements of the elliptic orbit as constant , the X-Y-Z functiOns expressible as a number of ] time-harmonics .
But in S4 , where the state tidal distortion due to Diana was found , they were assumed to be so expressible therefore that assumption was justifiable , and the remainder of that section concerning the formation of the disturbing function is applicable .
The problem may now be simplified by the following considerations : equation ( 12 ) for the rate of variation of the ellipticity of the orbit involves only differentials of the disturbing function with regard to epoch and perigee .
It is obvious that in the disturbing function the epoch and perigee will only occur in the argument of trigonometrical functions , therefore after the required differentiations they only occur in the like forms .
Now the epoch never occurs except in conjunction with the mean longitude , and the longitude of the perigee increases uniformly with the time ( or nearly so ) , either from the action of other disturbing bodies or from the disturbing action of the permanent oblateness of the planet , which causes a progression of the apses .
Hence it follows that the only way in which these differentials of the disturbing function can be non-periodic is when the tide-raiser Diana is identical with the moon .
Whence we conclude that\mdash ; The tides raised by one satellite can produce no secular change in the eccentricity of the orbit of any other teuite .
The problem is thus simplified by the consideration that Diana and the moon need only be regarded as distinct as far as regards epoch and perigee , and that they are ultimately to be made identical .
Before carrying out the procedure above sketched , it will be well to consider what sort of approximations are to be made , for the subsequent labour will be thus largely abridged .
From the preceding sketch it is clear that all the terms of the X-Y-Z function corresponding Diana 's tide-generating potential are of the form From this it follows that all the terms of the --z functions are of the form Also by symmetry all the terms of the functions are of the form and in the present problem the accent to may be omitted .
The products of the functions multiplied by the functions occur such a way that when they are added together in the required manner ( as for exampi in only differences of arguments occur , and disappears from fh disturbing function .
Also secular changes can only arise in the satellite 's eccentrioit and mean distance from such terms in the disturbing function as are independent and , when we put and .
Hence we need only select bom th THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
mplete products the products of terms of the like argument in the two sets of fimctions .
Whence it follows that all the part of the disturbing function , which is here important , consists of terms of the form or Now it is intended to develop the disturbing function rigorously with respect to the obliquity of the echptic , and as far as the fourth power of the eccentricity .
The question therefore arises , what terms will it be necessary to retain in developing the X-Y-Z functions , so as to obtain the disturbing function correct to In the X-Y-Z functions ( and in their constituent functions , R ) those terms in which is not zero will be said to be of the order zero ; those in which is zero , but not zero , of the firs order ; those in which , but not zero , of the second order , and so on .
Then , by considering the typical term in the disturbing function , we have the following\mdash ; Rule of ) for the development of the X-Y-Z functions and of , , : develop terms of order zero to ; terms of the first order to ; terms of the second order to ; and drop terms of the third and fourth orders .
To obtain further rules of approximation , and for the subsequent developments , we now require the following theorem .
Expansion of in powers of the eccentricity .
is the true longitude of the satellite , the mean longitude , and the longitude of the perigee .
For the present I shall write simply in place of By the theory of elliptic motion If this series be inverted , it ] be found * See TAIT and STEELE'S 'Dynamics , ' art .
118 , or any other work on elliptic motion .
By differentiation we find that , when , , , , , , To expand by means of MACLAURIN'S theorem , we require the value of the following differentials when and :\mdash ; Now when , and the values of the differentials and functions differentials of are given above .
Then if we substitute for these functione values , and express the products of sines and cosines as the sums of sines and and introduce the abridged notation in which is written , have THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
\mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; ( 268 ) where the 's are merely introduced as an abbreviation .
Then by MACLAURIN'S theorem . . . .
In order to obtain further rules of approximation we will now run through the future developments , merely paying attention to the order of the coefficients and to the factors by which will be multiplied in the results .
From this point of view we may write The cosines of the multiples of have now to be found by the theorem ( 269 ) and ubstituted in the above equations .
In making the developments the following abridged notation is adopted ; a term of the form is written Consider the for first .
We have by successive applications of ( 269 ) with , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 .
( e ) ( e ) ( e ) ( e ) ( e ) ( e ) ( e ) In these expressions we have no right , as yet , to assume that { \mdash ; 2 } and { \mdash ; 1 } different from { 2 } and { 1 } ; and in fact we shall find that in the expansion for ] they are different , but in that for they- are the same .
Then adding up these , and rejecting terms of the third and fourth orders by the find rule of approximation , we have It will be observed that { 5 } and { 6 } are wanting , and might have been droppel from the expansions .
Also and { 4 } are terms of the second order , wherever they are multiplied by they might have been dropped .
Heno .
need not have been expanded at all .
A little further consideration required to show that need not have been expanded .
( e ) is an abbreviation for , and therefore in case and ; but in every other can and .
Hence the terms { 1 } and { 2 } ( e ) are of the third and fourth orders and may be dropped , and may ab be dropped .
Thus the whole of may be dropped .
With respect to { \mdash ; 2 } and { \mdash ; 1 } , observe that { 2 } in the expansion of stands for ; and { \mdash ; 2 } in the expansion of stan for ; and are either 1 , 2 , 8 , or 4 ; and are multipl of a constant .
Hence { 2 } and { \mdash ; 2 } are necessarily different , but if and were multiples of they might be the same , and indeed in the expansion of necessal'ily are the same .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
In the same way it may be shown that { \mdash ; 1 } and { 1 } are necessarily different .
Therefore { \mdash ; 1 } and { \mdash ; 2 } being terms of the third and fourth orders may be ropped .
It from this discussion that , as far as concerns the present problem , ( e)cos ( e)cos ) ( e ) And the sum of these expressions is equal to .
We thus get the following rules for the use of the expansion ( 269 ) of for the determination of : When , omit in terms in , in terms in , , , When , omit in term in in terms in , , all of When , omit in term in in term in , , all of When , omit in term in in term in , all of Then following these rules we easily find , When .
( 270 ) When .
( 271 ) When .
When .
These are all the series required for the expression of , since do not involve , and by what has been shown above and need not be expanded .
We now return again to the series for or , and consider the nature of tl approximations to be adopted there .
With the same notation ( e ) ( e ) Since is a function of , therefore after expansion it must be a function , and hence { 1 } must be necessarily identical with { \mdash ; 1 } , and { 2 } with Adding these up , and dropping terms of the third and fourth orders , Here is a term of the order zero , { 1 } of the first order , and { 2 } of the secon Therefore by the first rule of approximation { 2 } and { \mdash ; 2 } may be dropped who multiplied by .
Also { 3 } and { 4 } may be dropped .
Hence as far as concerns the present problem ( e ) ( e ) ( e ) and need not be expanded .
And the sum of these expressions is equal to R. THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
We thus get the following rules for the use of the expansion of for the determination of R. When , omit in term in in terms in , , all of When , omit in term in in terms in , all of Then following these rules , we find When . . . .
( 274 ) When ( 275 ) These are the only series required for the expansion of or , since what is shown above , need not be expanded .
Now multiply ( 270 ) by by ; ( 272 ) by ; and ( 273 ) ; add the four products together , and add , and we find from ( 267 ) after reduction . . .
( 276 ) Next multiply ( 274 ) by by add the two products , and add , and we find from ( 267 ) after reduct , ion , ( 277 ) CLXXX .
Now let ( 27 \mdash ; And we have ( 27 whence These three expressions are parts of infinite series which only go as far as terms , but the terms of the orders and have their coefficients developed as far as and respectively .
Then substituting from ( 279 ) for , and their ] in the expressions ( 265 we find same , with sines for cosines same as , but with for for 2 for and with for same as the last , but with sines for cosines Then if we regard as constant , and remember that , and that stands , and if we look through the above functions we see that there are THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
of 22 different speeds , viz. : 9 in the first pair all involving , 9 in the second air all involving , and 4 in the last .
Then since these five functions correspond to Diana 's tide-generating potential , herefore we are going to consider the effects of 22 different tides , nine being semi- iurnal , nine diurnal , and the last four may be conveniently called monthly , since heir periods are of a month and one month .
We next have to form the functions .
We found that in the X-Y-Z unctions there were terms of 22 different speeds ; hence we shall now have to atroduce 44 symbols indicating the reduction in the height of tide below its equiibrium height , and the retardation of phase .
The notation adopted is analogous to at used- in the preceding problem , and the following schedule gives the symbols .
Semi-diurnal tides .
speed height lag 2f Diurnal tides .
speed height Gu lag Gu a Monthly tides .
speed height lag functions might now be easily written out ; for each term of the X-Y-Z functions is to be multiplied , according to its speed by the corresponding height , and :the corresponding lag subtracted from the argument of the trigonometrical term .
For example , the first term of is .
It will however be unnecessary to write out these long expressions .
In order to form the disturbing function , the functions have now to be multiplied by the functions according to the formula ( 31 ) .
Now bhe functions only differ from the X-Y-Z ctions in the accentuation of and , because Diana is to be ultimately identical with the moon .
Then in the functions is an abbreviation for , and in the functions for ; hence wherever in the products we find , we may replace it by * With periods of , and one month .
Agairl , since we are only seeking to find the secular changes in the ellipticity mean distance , therefore ( as before pointed out ) we need only multiply together ter1a whose arguments only differ by the lag .
Secular inequalities , in the sense in the term is used in the planetary theory , will indeed arise from the cross-multip cation of certain terms of like speeds but of different argumaents , \mdash ; for example , th product of the term in multiplied by the ter 2 in , when added to the similar cross-product ( which only differs in having sines for cosines ) will give a ter .
This term in the disturbing function will a long inequality , but it is of no present interest .
The products may now be written down without writing out in full either functions or the functions .
In order that the results may form constituent terms of , the factor is introduced in the first pair of products , factor 2 in the second pair , and the factor in the last .
Then from we have same , when replaces replao replaces ; and 's and g 's replace 's and 's THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The sum of these three last expressions ( 281-3 ) when multiplied by is qual to the disturbing function .
S24 .
Secular changes in eccentricity and mean distance .
Before proceeding to the differentiation of , it is well to note the following coincidences between the coefficients and arguments , .
: occurs with , with , with , with , with with , and the terms in do not involve .
In consequence of these coincidences it will be possible to arrange the results in a highly symmetrical form .
By equations ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) - , when and , when Hence the single operation will enable us by proper choice of the value of to find either or Perform this operation ; then putting , and collecting the terms according to their respective 's and , we have { same with ii for , and for } { same with for , and for } { same with iv for , and for } { same with ii for , and for } . . . .
( 284 ) The functions of and , which appear here , will occur hereafter so frequently that it will be convenient to adopt an abridged notation for them .
Let then represent ither , ii , iii or , and let ( 28S - And the generalised definition of the , \amp ; c. , is contained in the followin schedule lagheightspeed ' ' ' ' We must now substitute for the 's and 's their values , and as the ellipticity is chosen as the variable they must be expressed in terms of instead of .
Also each of the and must be divided by Then since , therefore and Then by ( 278 ) and , and and and ( 287 and and and When is put equal to we shall also require the following:\mdash ; ; ; ; ; THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore by putting in equation ( 284 ) we have and by putting in The equations may be also arranged in the following form : [ ( i)4(u)\mdash ; 49(iii)\mdash ; 9(i ) ] ( 290 ) The former of these apparently stops with the first power of , but it will be observed that we have on the left-hand side so that is developed as far as These equations give the required solutions of the problem .
S 25 .
Application to the case ufhere the planet is viscous .
If the planet or earth be viscous , we have , as in S7 , , When these values are substituted in ( 289 ) we have the equation giving the rate of change of ellipticity in the case of viscosity .
The equation is however so long and complex that it does not present to the mind any physical meaning , and I shall therefore illustrate it graphically .
The case taken is the same as that in S 7 , where the planet rotates 15 times as fast as the satellite revolves .
The eccentricity or ellipticity is supposed to be small , so that only the first line of ( 289 ) is taken .
I took as five several standards of viscosity of the planet , such viscosities as would THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
If the viscosity be very small , the equations ( 289-90 ) admit of reduction to very forms .
In this case the sines of twice the angles of lagging are proportional to the speeds of the several tides , and we have ( as in previous cases ) Therefore And Whence from ( 289 ) or From this we see that , in the case of small viscosity , tidal reaction is in general competent to cause the eccentricity of the orbit of a satellite to increase .
But if 18 sidereal days of the planet be greater than sidereal months of the the eccentricity will decrease .
Wherefore a circular orbit for the satellite is only dynamically stable provided 18 such days is greater than 11 such ths .
Now if we treat the equation ( 290 ) for in the same way , we find\mdash ; The first line .
The second .
The third Therefore or Frorn this it follows that the rate of tidal reaction is gleater if the orbit be eccentr than if it be circular .
Also for zero obliquity the tidal reaction vanishes when Hence if a satellite were to separate from a planet such a way that , at the moment after separation , its mean motion were equal to the angular velocity of th6 planet , then if its orbit were eccentric it must fall back into the planet ; but if its orbit were circular an .
infinitesimal disturbance would decide whether it should approach or recede from the planet .
Now suppose that the viscosity is very large , and that the obliquity is zero .
Then and the sines are reciprocally proportional to the of the tides , from which take their origin .
As to the term in , which takes its origin from the ellipti monthly tide , the viscosity make a close approach to absolute rigidity for thi term to be reciprocally proportional to the speed of that tide ; for the present , there fore , will be left as it is .
Then the equation becomes , on this hypothesis , .
( 29 The numerator of the first term on the right is always positive for values of le than unity , and the denominator is always positive if be less than .
Hence if ] viscosity be not so great but that the last term is small , the eocentricity alwa increases if lies between zero and * See Appendix ( p. for further considerations on this subject .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
If however be not small , then even though the viscosity be not great enough to Bproach perfect rigidity , we must have .
And of course , by supposing the viscosity great enough , this relation may be fulfilled whatever be Then our equation becomes ( 294 ) The numerator on the light-hand side is always positive for values of less than unity , and the denominator is positive for values of less than Since we have From this we see that , for very large viscosity , \mdash ; For values of between 1 and 6667 , the eccentricity increases per unit increase of , and the rate of increase tends to become infinite when The remarks concerning the physical absurdity of this class of result in S21 may be repeated in this case .
And for values of between 6667 and , the eccentricity diminishes .
A similar treatment of the case of small viscosity shows that\mdash ; For values of between 1 and the eccentricity decreases , and for values of between and the eccentricity increases .
Thus it is only between and 6667 that the two cases agree .
Hence in the course of evolution of a satellite revolving about a purely viscous planet :\mdash ; For small viscosity the orbit will remain circular until 11 months of the satellite are equal to 18 days of the planet , then the eccentricity will increase until this relationship is again fulfilled , when the eccentricity will again diminish And for very large viscosity orbit will at ollce become eccentric , and the eccentricity will increase very rapidly until two months of the satellite are equal to three days of the planet .
The eccentricity will then diminish until this relatiollship is again ffilfilled , after which the eccentricity will again increase .
We shall consider later which of these views seems the more probable with regard to the history of the * See " " On the Analytical Expressions , \amp ; c Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 202 , 1880 .
S26 .
in the obliquity and diurnal rotation of the ptanet , when the teflite moves in an eccentric orbit .
The method of treating this problem will be the same as that of S 12 , to which th reader is referred .
In the complete development of the disturbing function would occur wherever the 's and 's occur , but never with the If we put in ( 284 ) , we have .
( 295 ) .
Where 2 means summation for This result follows from the fact that in all the -terms of and enter in the form , where In the -terms enters in the form , and is of the opposite sign from ; in the -terms it enters in the form , and is of the same sign as ; in the -terms it enters in the form , and is of the opposite sign from ; in the -terms it enters in the form , and ' of the same sign as Hence as far as regards the -terms of , we have in the -terms in the -terms in the -terms in the -terms in the -terms In the -terms of enters with coefficient 2 in the and -terms , and with the coefficient 1 in the and -terms , and is always of the same sign as the corresponding lag .
Hence for the -terms Where 2 means summation for the cases where is zero and both upper and lowe and From this we have THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
( 296 ) The first being from iv to , and the last only for ii and This is a partial solution for the tidal friction , and corresponds only to the action of the moon on her own tides ; that of the sun on his tides may be by symmetry .
It is easy to see that for the joint effect of the two bodies we have ( 297 ) From ( 296-7 ) and ( 287-8 ) the complete solution may be collected .
In order to find the secular change in the obliquity , we must consider how would enter in W. Now in the development of stands for , and stands for .
Hence from ( 295 ) ( 298 ) Now by Then substituting for from ( 296 ) and for , from ( 29s ) , we find 1 sirl ] ( 299 ) The first bein from iv to , and the last onIy for ii and This is only a partial solution , and gives the resuIt of the action of the moon on her own tides ; that for the sun on his tides may be obtained by symmetry .
It is easy to see that for the joint effect ( 300 ) From and ( 287-8 ) the complete solution may be collected .
Then if these solutions be applied to the case where the earth is viscous and where the viscosity is small , it will be found after reduction as in previous cases that \fnof ; m ( 301 ) ( 302 ) These results give the tidal friction and rate of Ghan of obliquity due both to the sun and moon ; is the ellipticity of the lunar orbit , and of the solar ( or terrestrial ) orbit .
If and be put equal to zero they agree with the results obtained in the paper on " " Precession .
: ' S27 .
Verfication of , and effect of evectional tides .
The analysis of this part of the paper has been long and complex , and therefore verification is ] uable .
The moment of momentum of the orbital motion of the moon and earth round thei common centre of inertia is proportional to the square root of the latus of th orbit , according to the ordinary the-ory of elliptic motion .
In the present notation thi moment of momentum is equal to .
Let us suppose the obliquity of th ecliptic to be zero .
Then the whole moment of momentum of the system ( supposin only one satellite to exist ) is THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Therefore we ought to find , if the analysis has been correctly worked , that This test will be only applied in the case where the viscosity is small , because the analysis is pretty short ; but it may also be applied in the general case .
When io , we have from ( 292 ) , after multiplying both sides by And when and , from ( 801 ) Hence from ( 291 ) Thus the above formulas satisfy the condition of the constancy of the moment of momentum of the system .
The most important lunar inequality after the Equation of the centre is the Evection .
The effects of lagging evectional tides may be worked out on the same plan as that pursued above for the Equation of the cerltre .
I will not give the analysis , but will merely state that , in the case of small ViSC0Sity of the earth , the equation for the rate of change of pticity , inclusive of the evectional terms , becomes where is the earth 's mean motion in its orbit round the sun .
From this we see that , even at the present time , the ides will only reduce the rate of increase of the ellipticity by -th parl of the whole .
In the integrations to be carried out in Part VI .
this term will sink , and there.forc it will be entirely neglected .
The Variation is another lunar inequality of slightly less importance than the Eve tion ; but it may be observed that the Evection was only of any importance because its argument invoJved the lunar perigee , and its coefficient the eccentricity .
neither of these conditions are fulfilled in the case of the Variation .
Moreover in the retrospective integration the coefficients will degrade far more rapidly than those of the evectional terms , because they will depend on .
Hence the secuIar effects of the variational tides will not be given , though of course it would be easy to find them if they were required .
VI .
INTEGRATION FOR CHANGES IN THE ECCENTRICITY OF THE ORBIT .
S28 .
Integration in the case of small viscosity .
By ( 291-2 ) , we have approximately Therefore approximately rfhe last transformation assumes that or is small compared with unity ; thi will be the case in the retrospective integration for a long way back .
Then as a first approximation we have Therefore approximately And for a second approximation The.integral in this expression is very and therefore to evaluate it THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
to an average value , say I , and neglect the solar tidal friction in a due to Then Let , so that Hence the lasb term in 303 ) is approximately equal to I In the last term has been written for Now let Then . . . .
( 304 ) This formula will now be applied to trace the changes in the eccentricity of the lunar orbit .
The integration will be made over a series of ' ' periods\ldquo ; which cover the same ground as those in the paper on " " Precession ; \ldquo ; and the numerical results of that paper will be used for assigninoo the values to and I. is equal to of that paper , and therefore is First period of integration .
From to 88 .
I is taken as .
In ' Precession\ldquo ; was , therefore 24954 and .
Also , and In computing for S 17 of ' Precession\ldquo ; I found at the end of the period Using these values I find Also Now , the present eccentricity of the lunar orbit , is 054908 .
Whence And Using these values I find , and the first approximation gave Then Whence , at the end of the first period of integration .
Second period of integration .
From to 76 .
was taken as A similar calculation gives , the first part of Whence , and the first approximation gave Therefore and , at the end of the second period integration .
Third period of integration .
From to 76 .
I was taken as Then a similar calculation gave , first part of Whence , and the first approximation gave Therefore , and at the end of the third period integration .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A Fourth period of integration .
The procedure is changed in the same way , and for the same reason , as in the ourth period of S 17 of " " Precession Let ( as in that paper Then the equation of tidal friction is and the equation for the change in may be wlitten approximately Smce or is no longer small , this expression will be integrated by quadratures .
Using the numerical values given in S 17 of " " Precession I find the following corresponding values .
11.994 Then integrating by quadratures with the common difference equal to 107 , we find the integral equal to Whence , and The results of the whole integration are given in the following table , of which the first two columns are taken from the paper on " " Precession Beyond this the eccentricity would decrease very little more , because this integration stops where is about , and the eccentricity ceases to diminish when is The final eccentricity in the above table is only of the initial eccentricity , and the orbit is very nearly circular .
S29 .
The change of eccentricity when the viscosity is targe .
I shall not integrate the equations in the case where the viscosity is large , because the solution depends so largely on the exact degree of viscosity .
If the viscosity were infinitelylarge , then in the retrospective integration the eccen tricity would be found getting larger and larger and finally become infinite , when is equal to .
This result is of course physically absurd , If on the oth hand the viscosity were large , we might find the eccentricity diminishing , then stationary , and finally increasing until , after which it would diminish again Thus by varying the viscosity , supposed always large , we might get considerable diversity of results .
VII .
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION OF RESULTS .
S30 .
Explanation of problem.\mdash ; Summary of Parts I. and II .
In considering the changes in the orbit of a satellite due to frictional tides , very little interest attaches to those elements of the orbit which are to be specified , in order to assign the position which the satellite would occupy at a given instant of We are rather here merely concerned with those elements which contain a description of the nature of the orbit .
These elements are the mean distance , inclination , and eccentricity .
Moreover all those inequalities in these three elements , which are periodic in time , whether fall into the class ' ' secular\ldquo ; or ' periodic\ldquo ; inequalities , have no interest for us , and .
what we require is to trace their secular changes .
Similarly , in the case of the planet we are only concerned to discover the secular changes in the period of its rotation , and in the obliquity of its equator to a fixed plane .
It has unfortunately been found impossible to direct the investigation strictl according to these considerations .
Amongst the ignored elements are the longitude of the nodes of the orbit and equator upon the fixed plane , and it was found in on part of the investigation , viz. : Part III .
, that secular inequalities ( in the ordinar acceptance of the term ) had to be taken into consideration both in the five element which define the nature of the orbit , and the planet 's mode of motion , and also in th motion of the two nodes .
In the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; I considered the secular changes in the mean distan of the satellite , and the obliquity and rotation-period of the planet , but the satellite orbit was there assumed to be circular and confined to the fixed plane .
In the paper the inclination and eccentricity are specially considered , but the introducboA ' these elements has occasioned a modification of the results attained in the ] THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
865 paper .
For convenience of diction I shall henceforth speak of the planet as the earth , and of the satellites as the moon and sun ; for , as far as regards tides , the sun may be treated as a satellite of the earth .
The investigation has been kept as far as possible general , so as to be applicable to any system of tides in the earth ; but it has been directed more especially towards the conception of a bodily distortion of the earth 's mass , and all the actual applications are made on the hypothesis that the earth is a viscous body .
A very slight modification would however make the results applicable to frictional oceanic tides on a rigid nucleus ( see S1 immediately after ( 15 ) ) .
I thought it sufficient to consider the problem as divisible into the two following oeses :\mdash ; 1st .
Where the moon 's orbit is circular , but inclined to the ecliptic .
( Parts I. , II .
, III .
, IV .
) 2nd .
Where the orbit is eccentric , but always coincident with the ecliptic .
( Parts I. , V. , VI .
) Now that these problems are solved , it would not be difficult , although laborious , to unite the two investigations into a single one ; but the additional interest of the would hardly repay one for the great labour , and besides this division of the problem makes the formulas considerably shorter , and this conduces to intelligibility .
For the present I only refer to the first of the above problems .
It appears that the problem requires still further subdivision , for the following reasons :\mdash ; It is a well-known result of the theory of perturbed elliptic motion , that the orbit of a satellite , revolving about an oblate planet and perturbed by a second satellite , always maintains a constant inclination to a certain plane , which is said to be proper to the orbit ; the nodes also of the orbit revolve with a uniform motion on plane , apart from " " periodic\ldquo ; inequalities .
If then the moon 's proper plane be inclined at a very small angle to the ecliptic , the nodes revolve very nearly uniformly on the ecliptic , and the orbit is inclined at very nearly a constant angle thereto .
In this case the equinoctial line revolves also nearly uniformly , and the equator is inclined at nearly a constant angle to the ecliptic .
Here then any inequalities in the motion of the earth and moon , which depend on the longitudes of the nodes or of the equinoctial line , are harmonically periodic in time ( although they are ' secular inequalities and cannot lead to any cumulative effects which will alter the elements of the earth or Again , suppose that the moon and earth are the only bodies in existence .
Here the axis of resultant moment of momentum of the system , or the normal to the invariable plane , remains fixed in space .
The component moments of momentum are those of the earth 's rotation , and of the moon 's and earth 's orbital revolution round their mmon centre of inertia .
Hence the earth 's axis and the normal to the lunar orbit must always be coplanar with the normal to the invariable plane , and therefore the orbit and equator must have a common node on the invariable plane .
This node revolves with a uniform precessional motion , and ( so long as the earth is rigid ) inclinations of the orbit and equator to the invariable plane remain constant .
Here also inequalities , which depend on the longitude of the common node , arfi harmonically periodic time , and can lead to no cumulative effects .
But if the lunar proper plane be not inclined at a small angle to the ecliptic , the nodes of the orbit may either revolve with much irregularity , or may ]late about a mean position on the ecliptic .
In this case the inclinations of the orbit and equatog to the ecJiptic may oscillate considerably .
Here then inequalities , which depend on the longitudes of the node and of the equinoctial line , are not simply periodic in time , and may and will lead to cumulativo effects .
This explains what was stated above , namely , that we cannot entirely ignore the motion of the two nodes .
Our problem is thus divisible into three cases:\mdash ; Where the nodes revolve uniformly on the ecliptic , and where there ) a second disturbing satellite , viz. : the sun .
( ii .
) Where the earth and moon are the only two bodies in existence .
( iii .
) Where the nodes either oscillate , or do not revolve uniformly .
The cases and ( ii .
) are distinguished by our being able to ignore the nodes .
They afford the subject matter for the whole of Part II .
It is proved in S 5 that the tides raised by any one satellite can produce directly no secular change in the mean distance of any other satellite .
This is true for all three of the above cases .
It is also shown that , in cases and ( ii .
) , the tides raised by any one satellite can produce directly no secular change in the inclination of the orbit of any other satellito to the plane of reference .
This is not true for case ( ui .
) .
The change of inclination of the moon 's orbit in case is considered in S 6 .
The equation expressive of the rate of change of inclination is given in ( 61 ) and ( 62 ) .
In S 7 this is applied in the case where the earth is viscous .
Fig. 4 illustrates ths physical meaning of the equation , and the reader is referred to S 7 for an explanation of the figure .
From this figure we learn that the effect of the frictional tides is ir general to diminish the inclination of the lunar orbit to the.ecliptic , unless the quity of the ecliptic be large , when the inclination will increase .
The curves show that for moderate viscosities the rate of decrease of inclination is most raffl when the obliquity of the ecliptic is zero , but for lalger viscosities the rate of creaell has a maximum value , when the obliquity is between and If the viscosity be small the equation for the rate of decrease of inclination reducible to a very simple form ; this is given in ( 64 ) S 7 .
In SS s , 9 , is found the law of increase of the square root of the moon 's distaoo from the earth under the influence of tidal reaction .
The law differs but little fton *It is true that this mean position will itself have a slow precessional motionTHE F , LEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
that found and discnssed in the paper on " " Precession where the plane of the lunar orbit was supposed to be coincident with the ecliptic .
If the viscosity be small the equation reduces to a very simple form ; this is given in ( 70 ) .
In S 10 I pass to ' case , where the earth and moon are the only bodies .
The equation expressive of the rate of change of inclination of the lunar orbit to the invariable plane is given in ( 71 ) .
Fig. 5 illustrates the physical meaning of the equation , and an explanation of it is given in S 10 .
From it we learn that the effect of the tides is always to cause a diminution of the inclination\mdash ; at least so long as the periodic time of the satellite , as measured in rotations of the planet , is pretty long .
The following considerations show that this must generally be the case .
It appears from the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; that the effect of tidal friction is to cause a continual transference of moment of momentum from that of terrestrial rotation to that of orbital motion ; hence it follows that the normal to the lunar orbit must continually approach the normal to the invariable plane .
It is true that the rate of this approach will be to some extent counteracted by a parallel increase in the inclination of the earth 's axis to the normal .
It will appear later that if the moon were to revolve very rapidly round the , and if the viscosity of the earth were great , then this influence might be sufficiently great to cause the inclination to increase .
This possible increase of inclination is not exhibited in fig. 5 , because it illustrates the case where the sidereal month is 15 days long .
In S 11 it is shown that , for case ( ii .
) , the rate of variation of the mean distance , obliquity , and terrestrial rotation follow the laws investigated in ' Precession but that the angle , there called the obliquity of the ecliptic , must be interpreted as the angle between the plane of the lunar orbit and the equator .
In S 12 I return again to case and find the laws governing the rate of increase of the obliquity of the ecliptic , and of decrease of the diurnal rotation of the earth .
The results differ so little from those discussed in ' Precession ' ' that they need not be further referred to here .
Up to this point no approximation has been admitted with regard to smallness either in the obliquity or the inclination of the orbit , but mathematical cLfficulties have rendered it expedient to assume their smallness in the following part of the paper .
S 31 .
Summary of Part III .
Part .
is devoted to case ( iii .
) of our first problem .
It was found necessary in the ffist instance to consider the theory of the secular inequalities in the motion of a hoon revolving about an oblate rigid earth , and perturbed by a second satellite , the .
The sun being large and distant , the ecliptic is deemed sensibly unaffected , and is taken as the fixed plane of reference .
The proper plane of the lnnar orbit has been already referred to , but I was here led See the abstract of this paper , Proc. R.S. , No. 200 , 1879 , for certain general considerationsr bearing On this case to introduce a new conception , viz. : that of a second proper plane to which th motion of the earth is referred .
It is proved that the motion of the system may then be defined as follows:\mdash ; The two proper planes intersect one another on the ecliptic , and their .
common node regredes on the ecliptic with a slow precessional motion .
The lunar orbit and the equator are respectively inclined at constant angles to their proper planes , and their nodes on their respective planes also regrede uniformly and at the same speed* The motions are timed in such a way that when the inclination of the orbit ) the ecliptic is at the maximum , the obliquity of the equator to the ecliptic is at the minimum , and ) Now let us call the angular velocity with which the nodes of the orbit would regrede on the ecliptic , if the earth were spherical , the nodal velocity .
And let us call the angular velocity with which the common node of the orbit and equator would regrede on the invariable plane of the system , if the sun did not exist , the precessiorzal velocity .
If the various obliquities and inclinations be not large , the precessional velocity is in fact the purely lunar precession .
Then if the nodal velocity be large compared with the precessional velocity , t.h lunar proper plane is inclined at a small angle to the ecliptic , and the equator is inclined at a small angle to the earth 's proper plane .
This is the case with the earth , moon , and sun at present , because the nodal period is about years , and the purely lunar precession would have a period of between 20,000 and 30,000 years .
It is not usual to speak of a proper plane of the earth , because it is more simple to conceive a mean equator , about which the true equator nutates with a period of about years .
Here the precessional motion of the two proper planes is the whole luni-solar precession , and the regression of the nodes on the proper planes is practically the same as the regression of the lunar nodes on the ecliptic .
A comparison of my result with the formula ordinarily given will be found at the end of S 13 , and in a note to S 18 .
Secondly , if the nodal velocity be small compared with the precessional velocity the lunar proper plane is inclined at a small angle to the earth 's proper plane .
Also the inclination of the equator to the earth 's proper plane bears very nearly the same ratio to the inclination of the orbit to the moon 's proper plane as the orbita moment of momentum of the two bodies bears to that of the rotation of the earth .
In the planets of the solar system , on account of the immense mass of the sun , * nodal velocity is never small compared with the precessional velocity , unless satellite moves with a very short periodic time ound its planet , or unless the be very small ; and if either of these be the case the ratio of the two momentum is small .
Hence it follows that in our system , if the nodal velocity be small compared THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ffie precessional velocity , the proper plane of the satellite is inclined at a small angle to the equator of the planet .
The rapidity of motion of the satellites of Mars , Jupiter , and of some of the satellites of Saturn , and their smallness compared with their planets , necessitates that their proper planes should be inclined at small angles to the equa.tors of the planets .
A system may , however , be conceived in which the two proper planes are inclined at a small angle to one another , but where the sateUite 's proper plane is not inclined at a small angle to the planet 's equator .
In the case now before us the regression of the common node of the two proper planes is a sort of compound solar precession of the planet with its attendant moon , and the regression of the two nodes on their respective proper planes is very nearly the same as the purely lunar precession on the invariable plane of the system .
Thus there are two precessions , the first of the system as a whole , and the second going on within the system , almost as though the external precession did not exist .
If the nodal velocity be of nearly equal speed with the precessional velocity , the reglession of the proper planes and of nodes on those planes are each a compound phenomenon , which it is rather hard to disentangle without the aid of analysis .
Here none of the angles are necessarily small .
It appears from the investigation in " " Precession\ldquo ; that the effect of tidal friction is that , on tracing the changes of the system backwards in time , we find the moon getting nearer and nearer to the earth .
The result of this is that the ratio of the nodal velocity to the precessional velocity continually diminishes retrospectively ; it is imtially very large , it decreases , then becomes equal to unity , and finally is very small .
Hence it follows that a retrospective solution will show us the lunar proper plane departing from its present close proximity to the ecliptic , and gradually passing over until it becomes inclined at a small angle to the earth 's proper plane .
Therefore the problem , involved in the history of the obliquity of the ecliptic and in the inclination of the lunar orbit , is to trace the secular changes in the pair of proper planes , and in the inclinations of the orbit and equator to their respective proper planes .
The four angles involved in this system are however so inter-related , that it only necessary to consider the inclination of one proper plane to the ecliptic , and of one plane of motion to its proper plane , and afterwards the other two may be deduced .
I chose as the two , whose motions were to be traced , the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane , and the inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic ; and fterwards deduced the inclination of the moon 's proper plane to the ecliptic , and the inclinatiou of the equator to the earth 's proper plane .
The next subject to be considered ( S 14 to end of Part III .
) was the rate of change of these two inclinations , when both moon and sun raise frictional tides in the earth .
The change takes place from two sets of causes :\mdash ; First because of the secular changes in the moon 's distance and periodic time , and in the earth 's rotation and ellipticity of figure\mdash ; for the earth must always remain a figure of equilibrium .
NDCCCLXXX .
The nodal velocity varies directly as the moon 's periodic time , and it will decreas as we look backwards in time .
The precessional velocity varies directly as the ellipticity of the earth 's figure ( th earth being homogeneous ) and inversely as the cube of the moon 's distance , an inversely as the earth 's diurnal rotation ; it will therefore increase retrospectivel The ratio of these two velocities is the quantity on which the position of the prope planes principally depends .
The second eause of lrbance is due directly to the tidal interaction of the three bodies .
The most prominent result of this interaction is , that the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane in general diminishes as the time increases , or increases retrospectively .
This statement may be compared with the results of Part II .
, where the ecliptic was in effect the proper plane .
The retrospective increase of inclination may be reversed however , under special conditions of tidal disturbance and lunar periodic time .
Also the inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic in general increases with the time , or diminishes retrospectively .
This is exemplified by the results of the paper on " " Precession where the obliquity of the ecliptic was found to diminish retrospectively .
This retrospective decrease may be reversed under special conditions .
It is in determining the effects of this second set of causes , that we have to take account of the effects of tidal disturbance on the motions of the nodes of the orbit and equator on the ecliptic .
After a long analytical investigation , equations are found in ( 224 ) , which give the rate of change of positions of the proper planes , and of the inclinations thereto .
It is interesting to note how these equations degrade into those of case when the nodal velocity is very large compared with the precessional velocity , and into those of case when the same ratio is very small .
In order completely to define the rate of change of the configuration of the system , there are two other equations , one of which gives the rate of increa , se of the square root of the moon 's distance ( which I called in a previous paper the equation of tidal reaction ) , and the other gives the rate of retardation of the earth 's diurnal rotation ( which I called before the equation of tidal friction ) .
For the latter of these .
may however substitute another equation , in which the time is not involved , and which gives a relationship between the diurnal rotation and the square root of the moon 's distance .
It is in fict the equation of conservation of moment of momentum of the moon-earth system , as modified by the solar tidal friction .
This is the equa tion which was extensively used in paper on " " Precession Except for the solar tidal friction and for the obliquity of the orbit and equator , thi equation would be rigorously independent of the kind of frictional tides existing in tb earth .
If the obliquities are taken as small , they do not enter in the equation , and the present case the degree of viscosity of the earth only enters to an imperceptibl THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
degree , at least when the day is not very nearly equal to the sidereal month .
When that relation between the day and month is very nearly fulfilled , the equation may largely affected by the viscosity ; and I shall return to this point later , while for the present I shall assume the equation to give satisfactory results .
This equation of conservation of moment of momentum enables us to compute as many parallel values of the day and month as may be desired .
Now we have got the time-rates of change of the.inclinations of the lunar orbit to its proper plane , and of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic , and we have also the time-rate of change of the square root of the moon 's distance .
Hence we may obtain the square-root-of-moon's-distance-rate ( or shortly the distance-rate ) of change of the two inclinations .
The element of time is thus entirely eliminated ; and as the period of time required for the changes has been adequately considered in the paper on " " Precession no further reference will here be made to time .
In a precisely similar manner the equations giving the time-rate in the cases and ( ii .
) of our first problem , may be replaced by equations of distance-rate .
Up to this point terrestrial phraseology has been used , but there is which confines the applicability of the results to our own planet and satellite .
S 32 .
Summary of We now , however , pass to Part , which contains a retrospective integration of the differential equations , with special reference to the earth , moon , and sun .
The mathematical difficulties were so great that a numerical solution was the only one found practicable .
The computations made for the paper on ' Precession\ldquo ; were used as far as possible .
The general plan followed was closely similar to that of the previous paper , and consists in arbitrarily choosing a number of values for the distance of the moon from the earth or what amounts to the same thing for the sidereal month ) , and then computing all the other elements of the system by the method of quadratures .
The first case considered is where the earth has a small viscosity .
And here it may be remarked that although the solution is only rigorous for infinitely small viscosity , yet it gives results which are very nearly true over a considerable range of viscosity .
This may be seen to be true by a comparison of the results of the integrations in SS 15 and 17 of ' Precession in the first of which the viscosity was not at all small ; ako by observing that the curves in fig. 2 of ' Precession\ldquo ; do not differ materially fro1n the curve of sines until ( the of this paper ) is greater than ; also by noting a imilar peculiarity in figs. 4 and 5 of this paper .
The hypothesis of large viscosity does not cover nearly so wide a field .
An analytical solution in the case of a single satellite , where the viscosity of the planet is small , is givon in Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 202 , 1880 .
That which we here call a small viscosity is , when estimated by terrestrial very great ( see the summary of " " Precession To return , however , to the case in hand : begin with the present uratio of the three bodies , when the moon 's proper plane is almost identical with the ecliptio , and when the inclination of the equator to its proper plane is very small .
This is case of the first problem:\mdash ; It appears that the solution of " " Precession\ldquo ; is sufficiently accurate for this stage of the solution , and accordingly the parallel values of the day , month , and obliquity of the earth 's proper plane ( or mean equator ) are taken from S 17 of that paper ; but the change in the new element , the inclinat of the lunar orbit , has to be computed .
The results of the solution are given in Table I. , S18 , to which the reader is referred , This method of solution is not applicable unless the lunar proper plane is inclined at a small angle to the ecliptic , and unless the equator is inclined at a small angle to its proper plane .
Now at the beginning of the ation , that is to say with a homogenous earth , and with the moon and sun in their present configuration , the moon 's proper plane is inclined to the ecliptic at 13 and the equator is inclined to the earth 's proper plane at ( for the heterogeneous earth these angles are about and ) ; and at the end of this integration , when the day is 9 .
and the month .
days , the former angle has increased to 57 ' 31 and the latter to 22 ' 42 These last results show that the nutations of the system have already become considerable , and although subsequent considerations show that this method of solution has not been overstrained , yet it here becomes advisable to carry out the solution into the more remote past by the methods of Part III .
It was desirable to postpone the transition as long as possible , because the method used up to this point does not postulate the smallness of the inclinations , whereas the subsequent procedure does make that supposition .
In S19 the solution is continued by the new method , the viscosity of the earth still being supposed to be small .
After laborious computations results are obtained , the physical meaning of which is embodied in Table VIII .
The last two columns give the periods of the two precessional motions by which the system is affected .
The sion of the pair of proper planes is , as it were , the ancestor of the actual luni-solar precession , and the revolution of the two nodes on their proper planes is the ancestor of the present revolution of the lunar nodes on the ecliptic , and of the 19-yearly nutation of the earth 's axis .
This table exhibits a continued approach of the two proper planes to one another , } that at the point where the integration is stopped they are only separated by 1o ; at the present time they are of course separated by The most remarkable feature in this table is that ( speaking retrospectively ) inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane first increases , then diminishes , and then increases again .
If it were desired to carry the solution still further back , we might without muob THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
rror here make the transition to the method of case ( ii .
) of the first problem , and neglecting the solar influence entirely , refer the motion to the invariable plane of the moon-earth system .
This invariable plane would have to be taken as somewhere between the two proper planes , and therefore inclined to the ecliptic at about ; the invariable plane would then really continue to have a precessional motion due to the solar influence on the system formed by the earth and moon together , but this would not much affect the treatment of the plane as ough it were fixed in space .
We should then have to take the obliquity of the equator to the invariable plane as about , and the inclination of the lunar orbit to the same plane as about In the more remote past the obliquity of the equator to the invariable plane would go on diminishing , but at a slower and slower rate , until the moon 's period is 12 hours and the day.is 6 hours , when it would no longer diminish ; and nclination of the orbit to the invariable plane would go on increasing , until the day and month come to an identity , and at an ever increasing rate .
It follows from this , that if we continued to trace the changes backwards , until the day and month are identical , we should find the lunar orbit inclined at a considerable angle to the equator .
If this were necessarily the case , it would be difficult to believe that the moon is a portion of the primeval planet detached by rapid rotation , or by other causes .
But the previous results are based on the hypothesis that the viscosity of the earth is small , and it therefore now became important to consider how a different hypothesis concerning the constitution of the earth might modify the results .
In S20 the solution of the oblem is resumed , at the point where the methods of Part III .
were first applied , but with the hypothesis that the viscosity of the earth is very large , instead of very small .
The results for any intermediate degree of viscosity must certainly lie between those found before and those to be found now .
Then having retraversed the same ground , but with the new hypothesis , I found the results given in Table XV .
The inclinations of the two proper planes to the ecliptic are found to be very nearly the same as in the case of small viscosity .
But the inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane increases at first and then continues diminishing , without the subsequent reversal of motion found in the previous solution .
If the solution were carried back into the more remote past , the motion being refen.ed to the invariable plane , we should find both the obliquity of the equator and the inclination of the orbit diminishing at a rate hich tends to become infinite , if the viscosity is infinitely great .
Infinite viscosity is of course the same as perfect rigidity , and if the earth were perfectly rigid the system would not change at all .
The true interpretation to put on this result is that the rate of change of inclination becomes large , if the viscosity be large .
This diminution would continue until the day hours and the month 12 hours .
For an analysis of the state of things further back than this , the reader is referred to S20 .
From this it follows , that by supposing the viscosity large enough we may make th obliquity and inclination to the invariable plane as small as we please , by the tioe that state is reached in which the month is equal to twice the day .
Hence , on the present hypothesis , we trace the system back until the lunar orbit sensibly coincident with the equator , and the equator is inclined to the ecliptic at a angle of or It is probable that in the still more remote past the plane of the lunar orbit would not have a tendency to depart from that of the equator .
It is not , however , expedient to attempt any detailed analysis of the changes further back , for the following reason .
Suppose a system to be unstable , and that some infinitesimal disturbance causes the equilibrium to break down ; then after some time it is moving.in a certain way .
Now suppose that from .
knowledge of the system we endeavour to compute backwards from the observed mode of its motion at that time , and so find the condition from which the observed state of motion originated .
Then our solution will carry us back to a state very near to that of instability , fxom which the system reaIly departed , but as the calculation can take no account of the infinitesirnal disturbance , which caused the equilibrium to break down , it can never bring us back to the state which the system really had .
And if we go on computing the preceding state of affairs , the solution wil ] continue to lead us further and further astray from the truth .
Now this , I take it , is likely to have been the case with the earth and moon ; at a certain period in the evolution ( viz. : when the month was twice the day ) the system probably became dynamically unstable , and the equilibrium broke down .
Thus it seems more likely that we have got to the truth , if we cease the solution at ) point where the lunar orbit is nearly coincident with the equator , than by going still further back .
In S21 , fig. 7 , is given a graphical illustration of the distance-rate of change in the inclinations of the lunar orbit to its proper plane , and of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic ; the dotted curves refer to the hypothesis of large viscosity , and the ffimcurves to that of small viscosity .
figure is explained and discussed in that section ; I will here only draw attention to the wideness of the two curves illustrative of the rate of change of the inclination of the lunar orbit .
This shows how much influence the degree of viscosity of the earth must have had on the present inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic .
It is particularly interesting to observe that in the case of small viscosity this curv rises above the horizontal axis .
If this figure is to be interpreted retrospectively ; along with solution , it must be read from left to right , but if we with the instead of against it , from right to left .
Now if the earth had had in its earlier history infinitely small viscosity , and if th moon had moved primitively in the equator , then until the evolution had reached th point represented by , the lunar orbit would have always remained sensibly coin cident with its proper plane .
Then in passing from to the inclination of \amp ; THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A orbit to its proper plane would have increased , but the whole increase could not have amounted to more than a few minutes of arc .
At the point the day is 7 in length , and the month .
days in length ; at the point the day is 8 , and the month .
days .
From down to the present state this small inclination would have always decreased .
If then the earth had had small viscosity throughout its evolution , the lunar orbit would at present be on inclined at a very small angle to the ecliptic .
But it is actually inclined at about , hence it follo that while the hypothesis of small viscosity is competent to explain some inclination , it cannot explain the actually existing inclination .
It was-shown in the papers on " " Tides \ldquo ; and " " Precession\ldquo ; that , if the earth be not at present perfectly rigid or perfectly elastic , its viscosity must be very large .
And it was shown in " " Precession\ldquo ; that if the viscosity be large , the obliquity of the ecliptic must at present be decreasing .
Now it will be observed that in resuming the integration with the hypothesis of large viscosity , the solution of the first method with the hypothesis of small viscosity was accepted as the basis for continuing the integration with large viscosity .
This appears at first sight somewhat illogical , and to be strictly correct , we ought to have taken as the initial inclination of the earth 's proper plane to the ecliptic , at the beginning of the application of the methods of Part III .
to the hypothesis of large viscosity , some .
probably a little less than instead of .
This would certainly disturb the results , but I have not thought it advisable to take this course for the following reasons .
It is probable that at the present time the greater part , if not the whole of the tidal friction is due to oceanic tides , and not to bodily tides .
If the ocean were frictionless , it would be low tide under the moon ; consequently the effects of fluid friction must be to accelerate , not retard , the ocean tides .
Then in order to apply our present analysis to the case of oceanic tidal friction , that angle which has been called the lag of the tide must be interpreted as the acceleration of the tide .
We know that the actual friction in water is small , and hence the tides of long period will be less affected by friction than those of short period ; thus the effects of fluid tidal friction will probably be closely analogous to those resulting from the hypothesis of small viscosity of the whole earth and bodily tides .
On the other hand , it is probable that the earth was once more plastic than at present , either superficially or throughout its mass , and therefore it seems probable that the bodily tides , even if small at present , were once more considerable .
I think therefore that on the whole * In the present configuration of the earth , moon , and s1ln , the obliquity will decrease , if the viscosity be very large .
But if we integrate backwards this retrospective increase of obliquity would soon be converted into a decrease .
Thus at the end of ' the first period of integration the obliquity would be a little greater than , but by the end of the ' second period\ldquo ; it would probably be a little less than .
It is at the end of the ' second period ' that the method of Part III .
is first applied .
Otherwise the lunar attraction on the tides would accelerate the earth 's rotation\mdash ; a clear viQlation of the principles of energy .
we shall be more nearly correct in supposing that the terrestrial nucleus possessed a high degree of stiffness in the earliest times , and that it will be best to apply the hypothesis of small viscosity to the more modern stages of the evolution , and that of large viscosity to the more ancient .
At any rate this appears to be a not improbable theory , and one which accords well with the present values of the obliquity of the ecliptic , and of the inclination of the lunar orbit .
S 33 .
On the initial condition of the earth and moon .
It was remarked above that the equation of conservation of moment of momentum , as modified by the effects of solar tidal friction , could only be regarded as practically independent of the degree of viscosity of the earth , so long as the moon 's sidereal period was not nearly equal to the day ; and that if this relationship were nearly satisfied , the equation which we have used throughout might be considerably in error .
Now in the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; the system was traced backwards , in much the same way as has been done here , until the moon 's tide-generating influence was very large compared with that of the sun ; the solar influence was then entirely neglected , and the equation of conservation of moment of momentum .
was used for determining that initial condition , where the month and day were identical , from which the system started its course of development .
* The period of revolution of the system in it4 initial configuration was found to be about hours .
I now however see reason to believe that the solar tidal friction will make the numerical value assigned to this period of revolution considerably in error , whilst the general principle remains almost unaffected .
This subject is considered in S 22 .
The necessity of correction arises from the assumption that because the moon is retrospectively getting nearer and nearer to the earth , therefore the effects of lunar tidal friction must more and more preponderate over those of solar tidal friction , so that if the solar tidal friction were once negligeable it would always remain so .
But tidal friction depends on two elements , viz. : the of the tide-generating influence , and the relative motion of the two bodies .
Now whilst the tide generating influence of the moon does become larger and larger , as we approach the critical state , yet the ative motion of the moon and earth becomes smaller and smaller ; on the other hand the tide-generating influence of the sun remains sensibly constant , whilst the relative motion of the earth and sun slightly increases .
From this it follows that the solar tidal friction must ultimately become more important than lunar , notwithstanding the close proximity of the moon to the earth .
*See also a paper on ' The Determination of the Secular Effects of Tidal Friction by a Graphio Method Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 197 , 1879 .
In the paper on ' Precession\ldquo ; it was stated in S 18 that this must the case , but I did not at th time perceive the importance of this consideration THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
The complete investigation of this subject involves considerations which will require lpecisJ treatment .
In S22 it is only so far considered as to show that , when there is identity of the periods of revolution of the moon and earth , the angular velocity of the system must be much grea , ter than that given by the solution in S 18 of " " Precession WheIl the earth rotates in hours , the motion of the moon relatively to the 's surface would already be pretty slow .
If the system were traced into the more remote past , the earth 's rotation would be found getting more and more rapid , and the moon 's orbital angular velocity also continually increasing , but ever approximating to identity with the earth 's rotation .
When the surfaces of the two bodies are almost in contact , the motion of the moon relatively to the earth 's surface would be almost insensible .
This appears to point to the break-up of the primeval planet into two parts , in consequence of a rotation so rapid as to be inconsistent with an ellipsoidal form of equilibrium .
Is it then a mere coincidence that the shortest period of revolution , with which a spheroid of the same mean density as the earth could subsist in the ellipsoidal form , is 2 .
; whilst if KEPLER'S law were to hold true , and if the moon were to revolve round the earth in the same period , the surfaces of the two bodies would just graze one another ?
S34 .
of .
and I now come to the second of the two problems , where the moon moves in an eccentric orbit , always coincident with the ecliptic .
In S 23 it is shown that the tides raised by any one satellite can produce secular change in the eccentricity of the orbit of any other satellite ; thus the eccentricity and the mean distance are in this respect on the same footing .
It was found to be more convenient to consider the ellipticity of the orbit instead of the eccentricity .
In S 24 ( and ( 290 ) , are given the time-rates of increase of the elipticity and of the square root of mean distance .
In S25 the result for the ellipticity is applied to the case where the earth is viscous , and its physical meaning is graphically illustrated in fig. 8 .
This figure shows that in general the ellipticity will increase with the time ; but if the obliquity of the ecliptic be nearly , or if the viscosity be so great that the earth is very nearly rigid , the ellipticity will diminish .
This last result is due to the rising into prominence of the effects of the elliptic monthly tide .
If the viscosity be very small the equation is reducible to a very simple form , which is given in ( 291 ) .
From ( 291 ) we see that if the obliquity of the ecliptic be zero , the ellipticity will either increase or diminish , according as 18 rotations of the planet take a shorter or a longer time than 11 revolutions of the satellite .
From this it follows that in the history of a satellite revolving about a planet of small viscosity , the circular orbit is dynamically stable until 11 months of the satellite have become longer than 18 days of the planet .
Since the day and month start from equality and end in equality , it follows that the eccentricity will rise to a maximum and ultimately diminish again .
It is also shown that if a satellite be started to move in a circular orbit with the same periodic time as that of the planet 's rotation ( with maximum energy for given moment of momentum ) , then if infinitesimal eccentricity be given to the orbit the satellite will ultimately fall into the planet ; and if , the orbit being circular , infini tesimal decrease of distance be given the satellite will fall in , whilst if infinin increase of distance be given the satellite will recede from the planet .
Thus this figuration , in which the planet and satellite move as parts of a single rigid body , has a complex instability ; for there are two sorts of disturbance which cause the satellite to fall in , and one which causes it to recede from the planet .
If the planet have very large viscosity the case is much more complex , and it is examined iu detail in S 25 .
It will here only be stated that the eccentricity will diminish if 2 months of the satellite be longer than 3 days of the planet , but will increase if the 2 months be shorter than 3 days ; also the rate of increase of eccentricity tends to become infinite , for infinitely great viscosity , if the 2 months are equal to the 3 days .
These results are largely due to the influence of the elliptic monthly tide , and with most of the satellites of the solar , this is a very slow tide compared with the semi-diurnal tides ; therefore it must in general be supp osed that the viscosity of the planet makes a close approximation to perfect rigidity , in order that this statement may be true .
The infinite value of the rate of change of eccentricity is due to the speed of the slower elliptic semi-diurnal tide being slow , when 2 months are equal to 3 days .
The result is physically absurd , and its true meaning is commented on S25 .
In S26 the time-rate of change of the obliquity of the- planet 's equator , and of the diurnal rotation is investigated , when the orbits of tide-raising satellites are eccentric ; the only point of general interest in the result is , that the rate of change of obliquity and the tidal friction are both augmented by the eccentricity of the as was foreseen in the paper on " " Precession In S27 it is stated that the effect of the evectional tides is such as to diminish th eccentricity of the orbit , but the formula given shows that the effect cannot have much importance , unless the moon be very distant from the earth .
Added July , 1880.\mdash ; This passage appeared to the referee , reques by the R. S. to report on tbi paper , to be rather obscure , and it has therefore been somewhat modified .
To further elucidate the poin I have added in an appendix a graphical illustration of the effects of eccentricity , similar to those in No. 197 of Proc. Roy .
Soc. , 1879 .
See also the abstract of this paper in the Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 200 , 1879 , for certain general siderations bearing on the problem of the eccentricity .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
In Part VI .
the equations giving the rate of change of eccentricity are integrated , the hypothesis that the earth has small viscosity .
The first step is to convert the time-rates of change into distance-rates , and thus to eliminate the time , as in the previous integrations .
The computations made .
the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; were here made use of , as far as possible .
The results of the retrospective integration are given in Table , S 28 .
This table exhibits eccentricity falling from its present value of down to about , so that at the end the orbit is very nearly circular .
The integration in the case of large is not carried out , because the actual degree of viscosity will exercise so very large an influence on the result .
If the viscosity were infinitely large , we should find the eccentricity getting larger and larger retrospectively , and ultimately becoming infinite , when 2 months were equal to 3 days .
This result is of course absurd , and merely represents that the larger the viscosity , the larger old the eccentricity .
On the other hand , if the viscosity were merely large , we might find the eccentricity decreasing at first , then stationary , then increasing unti12 months were equal to 3 days , and then decreasing again .
It follows therefore that various interpretations may be put to the present eccentricity of the lunar orbit .
If , as is not improbable , the more recent changes in the configuration of our system have been chiefly brought about by oceanic tidal friction , whilst the earlier changes were due to bodily tidal friction , with considerable viscosity of the planet , then , supposing the orbit to have been primevally circular , the history of the eccentricity mtlst have been as follows : first an increase to a maximum , then a decrease to a minimum , and finally an increase to the present value .
There seems nothing to tell us how large the early maximum , or how small the subsequent minimum of eccentricity may have been .
VIII .
REVIEW OF THE TIDAL TBEORY OF EVOLUTION AS APPLIED TO THE EARTH AND THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM .
I will now collect the various results so as to form .
sketch of the previous investigations show as the most probable history of the earth and moon , and in order to indicate how far this history is the result of calculation , references will be given to the parts of my several papers in which each point is especially considered .
We begin with a planet , not very much more than 8,000 miles in diameter , and probably partly solid , partly fluid , and partly gaseous .
This planet is rotating about * " " \ldquo ; S 24 .
an axis inclined at about or to the normal to the echptic , a from 2 to 4 hours , and is revolving about the sun with a period not very shorter than our present year .
The rapidity of the planet 's rotation causes so great a compression of its figure thr it cannot continue to exist in an ellipsoidal formS with stability ; or else it is so nerl unstable that complete instability is induced by the solar tides .
The planet then separates into two masses , the larger being the earth and th smaller the moon .
I do not attempt to define the mode of separation , or to sa whether the moon was initially more or less annular .
At any rate it must be assume that the smaller mass became more or less conglomerated , and finally fused into spheroid\mdash ; perhaps in consequence of impacts between its constituent meteorites , whio were once part of the primeval planet .
Up to this point the history is largely specu lative , for although the limiting ellipticity of form of a rotating mass of fluid is known yet the conditions of its stability , and fortiori of its rupture , have not as yet bee investigated .
We now have the earth and the moon nearly in contact with one another , an rotating nearly as though they were parts of one rigid body .
This is the system which has been made the subject of the present dynamica investigation .
As the two masses are not rigid , the attraction of each distorts the other ; and they do not move rigorously with the same periodic time , each raises a tide in th other .
Also the sun raises tides in both .
In consequence of the frictional resistance to these tidal motions , such a system dynamically unstable .
If the moon had moved orbitally a little faster than the eart rotates she must have fallen back into the earth ; thus the existence of the mo compels us to believe that the equilibrium broke down by the moon revolving orbil ally a little slower than the earth rotates .
Perhaps the actual rupture into tw masses was the cause of this slower motion ; for if the detached mass retained th same moment of momentum as it had initially , when it formed a part of the primeva planet , this would , I think , necessarily be the case .
In consequence of the tidal friction the periodic time of the moon ( or the month increases in length , and that of the earth 's rotation ( or the day ) also increases ; bu the month increases in length at a much greater rate than the day .
*This at least appears to be the obliquity at the earliest stage to whioh the system has been back in detail , but the effect of solar tidal friction would make the obliquity primevaly less than an uncertain and perhaps considerable amount .
" " Precession S 18 , and Part IV .
, S22 .
" " Precession S 19 .
S " " Precession S18 , and Part IV .
, S22 .
Summary of ' ' Precession " " Secular Hiffects \amp ; c. , Proc. Roy .
Soc. , 197 , 1879 ; and ' ' Precossion S18 .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
At some early stage in the history of t , he system , the moon has conglomerated into a spheroidal form , and has acquired a rotation about an axis nearly parallel with that of the earth .
We will now follow the moon itself for a time .
The axial rotation of the moon is arded by the attraction of the earth on the tides raised in the moon , and this retardation takes place at a far greater rate than the imilar retardation of the earth 's rotation .
As soon as the moon rotates round her axis with twice the angular velocity with which she revolves in her orbit , the position of her axis of rota , tion ( parallel with the earth 's axis ) becomes dynamically unstable .
The obliquity of the lunar equator to the plane of the orbit increases , attains a maxlmum , and then diminishes .
Meanwhile the lunar axial rotation is being reduced towards identity with the orbital motion .
Finally her equator is nearly coincident with the plane of her orbit , and the attraction of the earth on a tide , which degenerates into a permanent ellipticity of the lunar equator , causes her always to show the same face to the earth .
LAPLACE has shown that this is a necessary consequence of the elliptic form of the lunar equator .
All this must have taken place early in the history of the earth , to which I now return .
As the month increases in length the lunar orbit becomes eccentric , and the eccentricity reaches a maximum when the month occupies about a rotation and a half of the earth .
The maximum of eccentricity is probably not large .
After this the eccentricity diminishes .
S The plane of the lunar orbit is at first practically identical with the earth 's equator , but as the moon recedes from the earth the sun 's attraction begins to make itself felt .
Here then we must introduce the conception of the two ideal planes ( here called the proper planes ) , to which the motion of the earth and moon must be referred .
The lunar proper plane is at first inclined at a very small angJe to the earth 's proper plane , and the orbit and equator coincide with their respective proper planes .
As soon as the earth rotates with twice the angular velocity with the moon revolves in her orbit , a new instability sets in .
The month is then about 12 of our present hours , and the day is about 6 of our present hours in length .
The inclinations of the lunar orbit and of the equator to their respective proper planes * ' ' Precession S23 .
Precession S17 .
It is of course possible that the lunar rotation was very rapidly reduced by the oarth 's attraction on the lagging tides , and was never permitted to be more than twice the orbital motion .
In this case the lunar equator has never deviated much from the plane of the orbit .
HsLNHOLTZ , I believe , first suggested the reduction of the moon 's axial rotation by means of tidal friction .
S Parts V. and .
The exact history of the eccentricity is somewhat uncertain , because of the rtainty as to the degree of viscosity of the earth .
See Parts III .
and . .
( and the snmmaries thereof in Part ) for this and what follows about ProPer planes .
increase .
The inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane increases to a maximum of or and ever after diminishes ; the inchnation of the equator to its proper plane increases to a maximum of about and ever after diminishes .
The maximum inclination of the lunar orbit to its proper plane takes place when the day is a little less than 9 of our present hours , and the month a little less than 6 of our present days .
The maximum inclination of the equator to its proper plane takes pla , ce earlier than this .
Whilst these changes have been going on , the proper planes have been themselves changing in their positions relatively to one another and to the ecliptic .
At first they were nearly coincident with one another and with the earth 's equator , but they open out , and the clination of the lunar proper plane to the ecliptic continually diminishes , whilst that of the terrestrial proper plane continually increases .
At some stage the earth has become more rigid , and oceans have been formed , so that it is probable that oceanic tidal friction has come to play a more important part than bodily tidal friction .
If this be the case the eccentricity of the orbit , after passing through a stationary phase , begins to increase again .
We have now traced the system to a state in which the day and month are increase : , but at unequal rates ; the inclination of the lunar proper plane to the ecliptic and of the orbit to its proper plane are diminishing ; the inclination of the terrestrial proper plane to the ecliptic is increasing , and of the equator to its proper plane is diminishing ; and the eccentricity of the orbit is increasing .
No new phase now supervenes , S and at length we have the system in its present configuration .
The minimum ime in which the changes from first to last can have taken place is 54,000,000 years .
In a previous paper it was shown that there are other collateral results of the viscosity of the earth ; for during this course of evolution the earth 's mass must have a screwing motion , so that the polar regions have travelled little from wesk to east relatively to the equator .
This affords a possible explanation of the north and south trend of our great continents .
Also a large amount of heat has been generatd by friction deep down in the earth , and some very small part of the observed increase of temperature in underground borings may be attributable to this cause : * Table , Part Found from the values in Table , and by a al with ' ' Precession S14 , where the present secular acceleration of the meah ) is considered .
S Unless the earth 's proper plane ( or mean equator ) be now slowly diminmshing in obliquity , as be the case if the bodily tides are more potent than the oceanic ones .
In any case this diminution mud ultimately take place in the far future .
" " Precession end of S18 .
" " Problems Part I. ' ' oblems , \ldquo ; Part II .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLTTE .
The preceding history might vary a little in detail , according to the degree of viuosity which we attribute to the earth 's mass , and according as oceanic tidal friction is or is not , now and in the more recent past , a more powerful canse of change than bodily tidal friction .
The argument reposes on the imperfect rigidity of solids , and on the internal friction of semi-solids and fluids ; these are veroe causoe .
Thus changes of the kind here discussed must be going on , and must have gone on in the past .
And for this history of the earth and moon to be true throughout , it is only necessary to postulate a sufficient lapse of time , and that there is not enough matter diffused through space to materially resist the motions of the moon and earth in perhaps several hundred million years .
It hardly seems too much to say that granting these two postulates , and the existence of a primeval planet , such as that above described , then a system would necessarily be developed which would bear a string resemblance to our own .
A theory , reposing on veroe , which brings into quantitative correlation the lengths of the present day and month , the obliquity of the ecliptic , and the inclination and eccentricity of the lunar orbit , must , I think , ha , ve strong claims to acceptance .
But if this has been the evolution of the earth and moon , then a similar process must have been going on elsewhere .
The present investigation has only dealt with a single satellite and the sun , but the theory may of course be extended , with some modification , to planets attended by several satellites .
I will now therefore consider some of the other members of the solar system .
A large planet has much more energy of rotation to be destroyed , and moment of momentum to be redistributed than a small one , and therefore a large planet ought to proceed in its evolution more slowly than a small one .
Therefure we ought to find the larger planets less advanced than the smaller ones .
The masses of such of the planets as have satellites are , in terms of the earth 's mass , as folows : Mars ; Jupiter ; Saturn ; Uranus ; Neptune Mars should therefore be furthest advanced in its evolution , and it is here alone in the whole system that we find a satellite moving orbitally faster than the planet rotates .
This will also be the ultimate fate of our moon , because , after the moon 's orbital motion has been reduced to identity with that of the earth 's rotation , solar tidal ffiction will further reduce the earth 's angular velocity , the tidal reaction on the moon will be reversed , and the moon 's orbital velocity will increase , and distance from the earth will diminish .
But since the moon 's mass is very large , the moon must recede to an enormous distance from the earth , before this reversal will take place .
Now the satellites of Mars are very small , and therefore they need only to recede a short distance from the planet before the reversal of tidal reaction .
* In the graphical method of treating the subject , ' the line of momentum\ldquo ; will only just intersect the curve of rigidity See Proc. Roy .
Soc. , 197 , 1879 .
The periodic time of the satellite Deimos is 80 as the period of tion of Mars is Deimos must be still receding from Mars , but very slowly ; i periodic time of the satellite Phobos in 7 .
; therefore Phobos must approaching Mars .
It does not seem likely that it has ever been remote from planet .
The eccentricities of the orbits of both satellites are small , though somewhab uncertain .
The eccentricity of the orbit of Phobos appears however to be the larger of the two .
If the viscosity of the planet be small , or if oceallic tidal friction be the principal cause of change , both eccentricities are diminishing ; but if the viscosity be large , both are increasing .
In any case the rate of change must be excessively slow .
As we have no means of knowing whether the eccentricities are increasing or diminishing this larger eccentricity of the orbit of Phobos cannot be a fact of much importance either for or against the present views .
But it must be admitted that it is a slightly unfavourable indication .
The position of the proper plane of a satellite is determined by the periodic time the satellite , the oblateness of the planet , and the sun 's distance .
The inclination the orbit of a satellite to its proper plane is not determined by anything in the system Hence it is only the inclination of the orbit which can afford any argument for against the theory .
The proper planes of both satellites are necessarily nearly coincident with tb equator of the planet ; but it is in accordance with the theory that the inclinations the orbits to their respective proper planes should be small .
Any change in the obliquity of the equator of Mars to the plane of his orbit mu be entirely due to solar tides .
The present obliquity is about , and this points to an advanced stage of evolution\mdash ; at least if the axis of the planet was primitive .
at all nearly perpendicular to the ecliptic .
We now come to the system of Jupiter .
This enormous planet is still rotating in about 10 hours , its axis is nearly perp dicular to the ecliptic , and three of its satellites revolve in 7 days or less , whilst fourth has a period of 16 days 16 .
This system is obviously far less advano than our own .
The inclinations of the proper planes to Jupiter 's equator are necessarily * Observations and Orbits of the Satellites of Mars , ' by ASAPH HALL .
Washington Printing Office , 1878 .
According to ]IAISHiR , as quoted by SCHMIDT .
'Ast .
Naoh vol. 82 , p. 333 .
the details of the Martian system , see the paper by Professor ASAPH HALL , above quoted .
With regard to the proper pJanes , see a paper by Prof. J. C. ADAMS read before the R. Ast .
Nov. 14 , 1879 , R. A. S. Month .
Not .
There is also a paper by Mr. , 'Ast .
Nach No. 2280 , vol. Oct. , THE ELEMBNTS OF ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
ffie inclinations of the orbits to the proper planes appear to be very interesting a eoretical point of view .
They are as follows:\mdash ; * Inclination of orbit Satellite .
to proper plaue .
Now we have shown above that the orbit of a satellite is at first coincident with its proper plane , that the inclination afterwards rises to a maximum , and finally declines .
If then we may assume , as seems reasonable , that the satellites are in stages of evolution corresponding to their distances from the planet , these inclinations accord well with the theory .
The eccentricities of the orbits of the two innel satellites are insensible , those of the outer two smaU .
This does not tell strongly either for or against the theory , because the history of the eccentricity depends considerably on the degree of viscosity of the planet ; yet it on the whole agrees with the theory that the eccentricity should be greater in the more remote satellites .
It appears that the satellites of Jupiter always present the same face to the planet , just as does our moon .
This was to be expected .
The case of Saturn is not altogether so favourable to the theory .
The extremely rapid rotation , the ring , and the short periodic time of the inner satellites point to an early stage of development ; whilst the longer periodic time of the three outer satellites , and the high obliquity of the equator indicate a later stage .
Perhaps both views may be more or less correct , for successive shedding of satellites would impart a modern appearance to the system .
It may be hoped that the investigation of the effects of tidal friction in a planet surrounded by a number of satelites may throw light on the subject .
This I have not yet undertaken , and it appears to have peculiar difficulties .
It has probably been previously remarked , that the Saturnian ystem bears a strong analogy with the solar system , Titan being analgous to Jupiter , Hyperion and Iapetus to Uranus and Neptune , and the inner satellites being analogous to the inner planets .
Thus anything which aids us in forming a theory of the one system will throw light on the other .
The details of the Saturnian system seem more or less favourable to the theory .
The proper planes of the orbits ( except that of Iapetus ) are nearly in the plane of the , and the inclinations of all the orbits to their proper planes appear not to be large .
HnRSCHEL'S ' ' Synoptic Tables in appendix .
HBBSCHEL'S ' Astron. ' 9th ed. , S 646 .
ction cannot bases tmportant feature iution oystems aSeptember , most completed , seems tretty c or Saturn and his satellites .
and the solar system itself .
I am not however led to reject the views ined in this paper .
HERaeCHEL gives the following eccentricities of orbit Tethys ?
, Dione ?
, Rhea 02 ) , Titan 029314 , Hyperion " " rather large : and he says nothing of the eccentricities of the orbits of the remaining three satellites .
If the dubious eccentricities for the first three of the above are of any value , we seem to have some indication of the early maximum of eccentricity to which the analysis points ; but perhaps this is pushing the argument too far .
The satellite Iapetut appears always to present the same face to the planet .
* Concerning Uranus and Neptune there is not much to be , as their systems arc very little known ; but their masses are much larger than that of the earth , and thei ] satellites revolve with a short periodic time .
The motion and high incli .
nation of the satellites of Uranus are , if thoroughly established , very remarkable .
The above theory of the inclination of the orbit has been based on an assumed small ness of inclination , and it is not very easy to see to what results investigation mighi lead , if the inclination were large .
It must be admitted however that the UraniaI system points to the possibility of the existence of a primitive planet , with retrograde rotation , or at least with a very large obliquity of equator .
It appears from this review that the other members of the solar system presenl some phenomena which are strikingly favourable to the tidal theory of evolution and none which are absolutely condemnatory .
Perhaps by further some light may be thrown on points which remain obscure .
( Added July , 1880 .
A of the effects of friction when the orbit of the satellite is eccentric .
In a previous paper ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 197 , 1879 ) a graphical illustration of th effects of tidal friction was given for the case of a circular orbit .
As this metho makes the subject more easily intelligible than the purely analytical method of th present paper , I propose to add an illustration for the case of the eccentric orbit .
Consider the case of a single satellite , treated as a particle , moving in an elliptii orbit , which is co-planar with the equator of the planet .
Let Ch be the resultant moment of momentum of the system .
Then with th notation of the present paper , by S 27 the equation of conservation of moment momentum is * HERSCHBL'S ' Astron. ' 9th ed. , S547 .
The last sentence of this paper contains an erroneous statement ; the line of zero eccentrioity on energy surface is not a ridge as there stated .
See the figure on p. 890 .
THE BLEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITiG .
S87 Here is the moment of momentum of the planet 's rotation , and is the roment of momentum of the orbital motion ; and the whole moment of momentum is the sum of the two .
By the definitions of and in S2 , , where is the attraction etween unit masses at unit distance .
By a proper choice of units we may make ) and equal to unity .
Then let be equal to the square root of the satellite 's mean distance , and the equation of conservation of moment of momentum becomes ( ) If in , the ellipticity of the orbit , be zero , we have equation ( 3 ) of the previous pa.per , No. 197 , 1879 .
It is well known that the sum of the potential and kinetic energies in elliptic motion is independent of the eccentricity of the orbit , and depends only on the mean distance .
Hence if CE be the whole energy of the system , we have ( as in equations ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) of the above paper , No. 197 ) , with the present units Then if be written for , and if the value of be substituted from , we have ( ) This is the equation of energy of the system .
In the paper above referred to , and in another , Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 202 , of 1880 , the physical meaning of the units adopted is scarcely adequately explained .
The units are such that , the planet 's moment of inertia , is unity , that is unity , and that a quantity called and defined in ( 6 ) of this paper is unity .
From this it may be deduced that the unit length is such a distance that the moment of inertia of planet and satellite when at this distance apart about their common centre of inertia is equal to the moment of inertia of the planet about its own axis .
If be this unit of , this condition gives , or The unit of time is the time taken by the satellite to describe an arc of in a circular orbit at distance ; it .
therefore .
The unit of mass is From this it follows that the unit of moment of momentum is the moment of momentum of orbital motion when the satellite moves in a circular orbit at distance .
The critical moment of momentum of the system , referred to in those two papers and below in this appendix , is this unit of moment of tnomentum .
In whatever manner the two bodies may interact on one another , the resultant moment of momentum must remain constant , and therefore will always give one relation between , and ; a second relation would be given by a knowledge of the nature of the interaction between the two bodies .
The equation might be illustrated by taking as the three rectangular .
co-ordinates of a point , and the resulting surface might be called the surface of momentum , in analogy with the " " line of momentum\ldquo ; in the above paper .
This surface is obviously a hyperboloid , which cuts the plane of in the straight line ; the planes of and in the straight line determined by ; and the plane of in the rectangular hyperbola The contour lines of this sulface for various values of are a family of rectangular hyperbolas with common asymptotes , viz. : and .
It does not however seem worth while to give a figure of them .
If the satelhte raises frictional tides of any kind in the planet , the system is non conservative of energy , and therefore in equation and must so vary that may always diminish .
Suppose that equation ( ) be represented by a surface the points on which have co-ordinates , and suppose that the axis of be vertical .
Then each point on the surface represents by the co-ordinates and one co1ifiguration of the system , with given moment of momentum .
Then since the energy must diminish , it follows that the point which represents the configuration of the system must always move down hill .
To determine the exact path pursued by the point it would be necessary to take into consideration the nature of the frictional tides which are being raised by the satellite .
I will now consider the nature of the surface of energy .
It is clear that it is only necessary to consider positive values of lying between zero and unity , because values of greater than unity correspond to a hyperbolic orbit ; and the more interesting part of the surface is that for which is a pretty small fraction .
The curves , formed on the surface by the intersection of vertical planes paralel to have maxima and minima points determined by This condition gives by differentiation of ( ) ( ) From the considerations adduced in previous papers , namely , those in the Proc. Boy .
Soc. , No. 197 , 1879 , and No. 202 , 1880 , it follows that this equation has either two real roots or no real roots .
When the equation has real roots provided be greater than , and ein this case corresponds to that of all but one of the satellites of the solar system , I sha THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A LLITE .
nceforth suppose that is greater than 4/ 3 ' .
It will be seen presently that in this oese every section parallel to has a maximum and minimum point , and the nature of the sections is exhibited in the curves of energy in the two previous papers .
Now consider the condition , which expresses that the planet rotates in the same period as that in which the satellite revolves , so that if the orbit be circular the two bodies revolve like a single rigid body .
With the present units , and by , .
Hence the condition leads to the biquadratic @ If be zero this equation is identical with ( ) , which gives the maxima and minima of energy .
Hence if the orbit be circular the and minimum of energy correspond to two cases in which the system moves as a rigid body .
If however the orbit be elliptical , and if , there is still relative motion during revolution of the satellite , and the energy must be capable of degradation .
The principal object of the present note is to investigate the stability of the circular orbit in these cases , and this question involves a determination of the nature of the degradation when the orbit is elliptical .
In Part V. of the present paper it has been shown that if the planet be a fluid of small viscosity the ellipticity of the satellite 's orbit will increase if 18 rotations of the planet be less than 11 revolutions of the satelhte , and vice versed .
Hence the critical relation between and is .
This leads to the biquadratic This is an equation with two real roots , and when it is illustrated graphically it will lead to a pair of curves .
For configurations of the system represented by points lying between these curves the eccentricity increases , and outside it diminishes , -supposing the viscosity of the planet and the eccentricity of the satellite 's orbit to be small .
In order to illustrate the surface of energy ( ) and the three biquadratics @ , and , I chose , which is greater than By means of a series of solutions , for several values of , of the equations ( ) , @ , , and a method of graphical interpolation , I have drawn the accompanying figure .
The axis is that of , the square root of the satellite 's distance , and the numbers written along it are the various values of .
The vertical axis is that of and it comprises values of between and 1 .
The axis of is perpendicular to the plane of the paper , but the contour lines for various values of are projected 0I1 to the plane of the paper .
THE ELEMENTS OF THE ORBIT OF A SATELLITE .
Thus the point is a true minimum on the surface , whilst the point A is a maximum-minimum , bein situated on a saddle-shaped part of the surface .
The lines start from A and , but one deviates from the ridge of maxima towards the ravin ; and the other branch deviates from the valley of minima by going up the slope on the side remote from the origin .
This surface enables us to perfectly determine the stabilities of the circular orbit , when planet and satellite are moving as parts of a rigid body .
The configuration is obviously dynamically stable in all respects ; for any configuration represented by a point near must degrade down to It is also clear that the configuration A is dynamically unstable , but the nature of the instability is complex .
A displacement on the right-hand side of the ridge of maxima will cause the satellite to recede from the planet , because must increase when the point slides down hill .
If the viscosity be small , the ellipticity given to the orbit will diminish , because is not comprised between the two chain-dot curves .
Thus for this class of tide the oircularity is stable , whilst the configuration is A displacement on the left-hand side of the ridge of maxima will cause the satellite to \amp ; 11 into the planet , because the point will slide down into the ravine .
But the obcularity of the orbit is again stable .
this figure at once shows that if planet and satellite be revolving with maximum as parts of a rigid body , and if , without altering the total moment of oeentum , or the equality of the two periods , we impart infinitesimal ellipticity to the orbit , the satellite will into the planet .
This follows from the fact that the Hoe runs on to the slope of the ravine .
If on the other hand without affecting the moment of momentum , or the circularity , infinitesimally disturb the relation , then the satellite will either recede or approach the planet according to the nature of the disturbance .
These two statements are independent of the nature of the frictional interaction of the two bodies .
The only parts of this figure which postulate anything about the nature of the interaction are the culves I have not thought it worth while to illustrate the case where is less than or the negative side of the surface of energy ; but illustrations may easily be earned out .

