Significance of Functional Metabolism the Plant .
93 Jroonian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Nature and Significance of Functional Metabolism in the Plant " ( Das Wesen die Bedeutung des Betriebsstoffwechsels der Pflanze ) .
By Wilhelm Pfeffer , Sc. D. ( Cantab .
) , of the University of Leipzig , For .
Mem. R.S. Received March 9 , \#151 ; Read March 17 , 1898 .
( Translation of Author 's Abstract .
) The fact that a mould fungus will thrive in a solution , from which , with the exception of certain inorganic acids , it can obtain nothing but sugar , affords proof that the elaboration of these food substances in metabolism not only provides the numerous carbon compounds which are concerned in the construction of the plant , but also serves as a sufficient source of energy for the performance of its functions .
For in the plant , as in the animal , vital activity comes to a standstill if the conditions and the energy necessary for the discharge of its functions are not constantly provided by means of profound chemical decompositions .
Just as in animals , a great amount of internal and external work has to be accomplished , in order to carry on and maintain the action of the organism .
Hence the greater part , and in the mature plant even the whole , of the food absorbed is devoted to this functional metabolism , so that only a certain fraction of the sugar which has disappeared from the solution is to be found in the resulting crop of fungi , in the form of various carbon compounds .
The rest of the sugar has been burnt up to form carbonic acid and water ; that is to say , it has been sacrificed to the physiological combustion , which in these , as in most plants , is indispensable for gaining an adequate amount of kinetic energy .
But , just as man is able to obtain driving power , not only from the combustion of wood and coal , but also from the explosion of gunpowder or dynamite , so there are certain of the lower plants which gain their whole kinetic energy by means of chemical transformations and decompositions , which go on without the participation of free oxygen .
Although the careful consideration of such organisms is indispensable for any correct estimate of functional metabolism , yet ) we may , in the first instance , limit our attention to oxygen-respiration , i.e.yto the functional metabolism of aerobic organisms .
In any case it is only after elaboration that food acquires its significance for the construction and working of the organism .
With respect to the utilisation of the food , it is of no consequence whence it comes , or by what means the organism obtains it .
Obvious as this consideration is , yet confusion between the elabora-\#166 ; tion of food in structural and functional metabolism on the one 94 Prof. W. Pfeifer .
The Nature and hand , and the operations adapted to the acquisition and absorpti\lt ; of organic nutriment on the other , has led to a grave error , name ] j to the assumption that a difference in principle exists between tj j metabolism of plants and that of animals .
The simple reflects I that an immense number of plants exist which are destitute \lt ; 1 chlorophyll , might at once have taught that the function of the chlori j phyll apparatus\#151 ; the production of food from carbonic acid and watt 1 \#151 ; only serves to provide nutriment for further elaboration , and i 1 introduce it in a peculiar and highly characteristic manner into tl I organism .
For the structural and functional metabolism of gree I plants , however , the sugar prepared in the plant 's own factory ha I exactly the same significance as the sugar which a fungus obtain I from outside .
In like manner it makes no difference to the utilisa I tion and importance of sugar in the metabolism of man , whether I sugar-baker obtains it from his own factory or another man has t( ft buy it at second or third hand .
Again , only those plants can dispense with a supply of albumin-1 ous food substances which construct these bodies synthetically from I simpler compounds .
In all plants , however , in close analogy with I the animal organism , albuminous substances not only serve as I permanent constituents of the body , but are in part again disinte-1 grated in metabolism .
Yet this process does not as a rule result in an I excretion of the nitrogenous products of decomposition , for the latter !
f are usually at once re-employed for the regeneration of albuminous !
1 substances .
This , however , cannot take place to a sufficient extent I m cases where a mould fungus is provided with protein substances | as its only food , so as to increase the transformation of albuminoids | and at the same time to restrict their regeneration .
Under these S circumstances a large amount of ammonium carbonate is actually I excreted , in oiher words , the same final product which also arises in the 1 animal body , but which there at once undergoes condensation to form\#174 ; urea .
By this latter process the injurious effect which would result 1 from an accumulation of ammonium carbonate is avoided .
In the case I of fungi such an injurious accumulation does not usually occur under 1 normal conditions of growth , while these plants also to some extent | possess the power of guarding against its deleterious influence by I neutialisation , owing to the fact that in the presence of alkaline I compounds oxalic acid is produced in increased quantity .
It constantly happens that all those processes which do not I orm an essential part of the indispensable functional metabolism , I are regulated in such a manner as to be wholly or partly brought to | a standstill without impairing other functions .
Any excessive accumulation of products always has this result , so that , for example , I J e *urther formation of sugar or of protein bodies ceases , when I these substances have collected in the cell up to a certain limited !
Significance of Functional Metabolism the Plant .
95 mount .
On the other hand , the inevitable final pr-oducts of the sneral functional metabolism must be continually formed , for it is pon this chemical process that the maintenance of vital activity apends , and these final products , in so far as they are not again lade use of , must also be constantly secreted and removed , for their ^cumulation would render further activity impossible .
In many erobic organisms , for reasons already indicated , only the excretion f carbonic acid and water is in question .
In the case of many fungi , nd some other plants , we find , however , in addition to these sub-tances , organic acids , and other non-volatile final products , which are ecreted in great variety and amount , especially in the case of many erobic and anaerobic fermentations .
In order to avoid an accumulation in the cell , the final products ?
bicli are continually arising , as well as the food to be assimilated , lust necessarily be soluble and capable of diosmosis .
Hence the jection of the undigested remains of food is usually impossible , hough , where it is possible , we find it in plants as well as in nimals , as , for example , in the Myxomycetes .
Extracellular diges-ion , which is employed on an extensive scale even in the vegetable :ingdom , is , - broadly speaking , only a means by which substances re rendered available for absorption and elaboration by the iving elements , but is no more an integral part of the actual func-ional metabolism than is the digestion in the stomach of animals , die same holds good with reference to respiratory movements , and to 11 those operations and adaptations which provide for the access of \gt ; xygen and the removal of carbonic acid .
In plants , it is true , there ire no special active respiratory movements , but in all the larger plants m extensive system of aeration serves to maintain , adequately , he gaseous interchange of the internal cells .
A loose combination )f oxygen , such as is found in the haemoglobin of the blood , is not )f general occurrence among plants , though present and efficient in ; ertain chromogenic bacteria .
If we leave out of consideration all subsidiary and preliminary orocesses , there is no doubt that the true aerobic functional meta-oolism is the same , in principle , in plants and in animals ; in fact 13ven from a formal point of view , no difference exists , if , as is fitting , we select the lowest animal and vegetable beings for comparison .
In plants , which like animals perform a large amount of work , vigoi'ous respiration also takes place ; in specially active plants it may even be actually greater than in warm-blooded animals .
Eor while in man , the carbonic acid produced in twenty-four hours amounts f to about 1*2 per cent. , in many mould-fungi it exceeds 6 per cent , of \#166 ; the weight of the body ; in very active bacteria the consumption of '.oxygen , referred to the same standard , may reach an amount 200 times as great as in man .
VOL. LXIII i Prof. W. Pfeffer .
The Nature and Although such energetic physiological combustion involves a ve-considerable production of heat , yet in consequence of the extensi .
radiating surface , only a slight rise of temperature usually ensui The functional metabolism , in fact , as in pcecilothermic organisn does not provide for the regulative maintenance of a definite bod temperature .
At the same time the plant is adapted to accoi modate itself to temperatures , ranging for example , from 2 ' 3 40 ' C. , and to bear such oscillations of the body-temperature wit !
out injury .
Manifestly it is altogether expedient that , when the ten perature rises , the activity of growth and respiration should be simn taneously accelerated .
On the other hand , the fact that when tl optimum temperature for growth has been exceeded , substances ai burnt up by respiration , in an ever increasing degree , while the pr\lt ; cesses of growth and movement are retarded or altogether stoppec is a non-adaptive phenomenon , determined only by the absence c any regulative check .
As long as the external conditions remain constant , however , resjii ration is always regulated by the plant , and is in general increased as the activity of the whole organism automatically rises .
Thi happens , for example , when a plant begius to grow again , after com pie ting the winter 's rest , or when a traumatic reaction is call \lt ; forth in consequence of injury .
Thus , if we cut a potato in pieces the production of carbonic acid gradually increases nine- or ten-fold m the course of twenty-four hours , owing to the respiratory process and then gradually diminishes again as the traumatic reaction passes off .
Here the plant falls as it were into a state of fever , for simultaneously with respiration , the production of heat is very considerably augmented .
If we bear in mind that the essential office of functional metabl ism , consists in providing , by means of chemical transformations , the necessary energy for vital action , we cannot be surprised that this end is not always attained in the same way .
Apart from the tact that different carbon-compounds are consumed in respiration , and that not only carbonic acid , but in certain plants oxalic acid , acetic !
: aci , citric acid , \amp ; c. , arise as the final products of physiological com ustion , there exist even aerobic organisms in which kinetic I energy is no longer obtained by the oxidation of any carbon compounds w atever .
Among these are the nitrobacteria , some of which oxidise j ammonia to nitrous acid , while others oxidise nitrous to nitric acid j jj these remarkable organisms , with the help of the energy thus gained , are at the same time capable of constructing their organic food I synthetically from carbonic acid .
Again , in the respiratory process jj ot the sulphur-bacteria , the sulphuretted hydrogen undergoes com- j ustion , sulphur being first set free , and then oxidized to form sub j phuric acid .
Thus , in these organisms , sulphuric acid is secreted as | Significance of Functional Metabolism in the Plant .
97 ie final product of physiological combustion , while in the nitro-icteria the same is the case with nitrous or with nitric acid .
There in be no question that as time goes on , yet other specific peculiarities ill be discovered .
Thus it is conceivable that certain micro-.ganisras may gain their chemical kinetic energy by the oxidation E ferrous oxide , and others perhaps , by the oxidation of hydrogen r of the gaseous hydrocarbons .
Considered from the general point of view of energy , it is by no leans necessary that physiological combustion should proceed long the same lines in all organisms .
Indeed it was only in con-equence of an unjustifiable generalisation from observations on the igher animal and vegetable organisms , that the belief arose that rganic life is impossible without the agency of free oxygen , without oxygen-respiration .
Just , however , as man is able to mploy driving power , derived from such reactions as the explosion f gunpowder or dynamite in a space free from oxygen , so must it ppear a priori possible , that organisms have been evolved on our arth , in adaptation to special conditions and necessities of life , which re able to live without making use of free oxygen .
As a matter of fact numerous anaerobic micro-organisms are now nown .
* Their existence , indeed , was established as long ago as 861 , by the investigations of Pasteur , and it was only the deeply ooted belief in the absolute indispensability of oxj'gen-respiration which caused the majority of the learned to remain sceptical , or to udeavour to save the dogma of the necessity of oxygen by lorced , i/ nd often , frivolous interpretations .
Much , it is true , remains to be explained as to the details of metabolism , both in aerobic and anaerobic organisms ; meanwhile this it least is certain , that even in anaerobes , kinetic energy is gained by means of a great variety of chemical transformations .
This fact s at once indicated by the various final products of functional metabolism , in one organism consisting chiefly of alcohol and carbonic icid , in another of butyric acid , lactic acid , or butyl-alcohol , br of other very various volatile and non-volatile compounds , which , however , often owe their origin in part to secondary processes ; considered from the standpoint of energy it is not necessary that any gaseous products should arise , or even that oxygen itoms should be transposed , or carbon compounds disintegrated , tt is true that the latter assumption holds good in all cases which rave as yet been minutely studied , but it is quite conceivable that dnetic energy may be obtained by some other reaction ( for example , oy the reaction between potassium nitrate and sulphur ) .
The anaerobia are , however , of great importance in the economy of nature , for by their agency decomposition is carried on in the interior of the cadaver , and generally in places where the conditions i 2 Prof. W. Pfeffer .
The Nature and for oxygen-respiration are absent .
Thus , in the case of fact tative anaerobes , in proportion as oxygen becomes deficient , aerot becomes replaced by anaerobic metabolism , while the obligatoi anaerobes now for the first time begin their growth and multiplio tion .
This is correlated with the fact , that oxygen , even at lo tension , acts as a poison to them , and when air is so mnch con pressed that the oxygen is twenty or thirty times as dense as i the atmosphere , all plants perish .
All gradations of sensitivenes towards oxygen occur , from the most resistant organisms dowi wards , and there are even obligatory aerobes , such as the sulphtu bacteria , which can only exist when oxygen is of very low density* Thus the different types are connected by intermediate links .
Fo any facultative anaerobe it is possible to prepare a nutritive sul stratum on which it can flourish only when able to respire fre oxygen .
If , however , the oxygen be presented in sufficient dilutioi it does not hinder the growth of the anaerobic organism , which under these circumstances , constantly draws the free oxygen into iti functional metabolism , and thus gradually consumes it in considerable quantities .
Further , a variable density of the free oxygen may b( endured by the same organism in accordance with the cultural conditions under which it is placed .
It has in fact been found possible , by means of special nutrition , to cultivate the strictly anaerobic Bacillus of symptomatic anthrax ( B. carbonis ) as an aerobe .
The habits of the nitrogen-assimilating Clostridium are also evidently modified by certain bacteria which usually live associated with it* ^_ such symbiosis Clostridium endures the free access of air , !
while in the isolated condition it can only live anaerobically .
Even in the case of typical aerobes , however , the withdrawal of oxygen does not bring the metabolic activity entirely to a standstill , jj At first carbonic acid is still given off , being derived from till intramolecular respiration , i.e. , from chemico-physiological processes , | which in most plants further result in the formation of alcohol and o er pro nets .
This intramolecular respiration is thus a vital ij a~ T w lck importance for the maintenance of life even in S aero es , ut which in the latter does not suffice to maintain the whole I wor mg o the organism after oxygen has been withdrawn .
In the j anaero es t is capacity has been fully developed , but of course only I comes into play when suitable nutrition is provided .
For , when differ-en .
\#163 ; f ' even facultative anaerobe can only grow if fully supplied I Wl,1 ai.f ' ^ behaves , when oxygen is withdrawn , just like a typi- I ca y aero ic plant , for it then ceases to grow , and , sooner or later/ I pens es a together .
By means of an appropriate food-mixture , I owever , we can ensure that the facultative anaerobe continues its I growt and movements , but only for a certain time and to a certain | extent , thus appearing as a temporarily anaerobic organism .
Such | Significance of Functional Metabolism the Plant .
99 i organism , for example , is yeast ( ) , which , ader the nutritive conditions hitherto tested , cannot live without an icasioual supply of oxygen , whereas certain bacteria are capable of 1 unlimited anaerobic life .
It follows directly from what has been said , that among aerobes fe is maintained for a limited time by the action of intramole-alar respiration .
For it is only when intramolecular respiration ails that the plant suffers in an atmosphere free from oxygen ; he strictly aerobic mould-fungi keep alive much longer without xygen , when their aerobic respiratory activity is intensified by proving them with sugar .
Thus there is every gradation and transi-ion between those organisms which require free oxygen , and those a which the anaerobic metabolic activity , which is exercised to a ertain degree in all organisms , is so far developed and utilised that he functional metabolism suffices for a life without oxygen .
Even n aerobes a number of partial functions are carried on for a certain ime after the withdrawal of oxygen .
Among these functions intra-nolecular respiration itself is included , as well as all the metabolic changes with which it is linked .
There are also certain processes of growth and movement which are not at once brought to a standstill when oxygen is withdrawn .
Thus we know that nuclear division , when it has once begun , still goes on in the absence of oxygen , and under the same conditions the tentacles of the insectivorous Sundew still carry out their movements when stimulated .
The muscle of animals can also be caused to contract when deprived of oxygen .
The relations of the organism to its conditions of life can be demonstrated and understood , even though we do not possess an ; y deeper insight into the causes and the exact processes of functional metabolism .
We may also regard it as Certain that functional metabolism is indispensable to vital activity , on which in its turn it depends and by which it is regulated , so that metabolism is at once extinguished when death ensues .
Thus the realisation of functional metabolism ensures the continuity of metabolism in general , just as a blazing fire , by heating the wood , constantly creates and maintains the conditions necessary for the continuance of combustion .
It is also certain that functional metabolism runs its course within the living protoplasm , not merely on its surface or in particular portions of it , but in and between all its constituent parts , as must necessarily be the case in order that vital activity may be maintained .
This can be seen at once from the fact that those movements in tne protoplasm , or in any separate fragment of the protoplast , which are dependent on aerobic respiration , come to an end on the withdrawal of oxygen , even when the adjoining cells have access to oxygen and are in a state of full activity .
_ ... From the dependence of functional metabolism on vital activity it Prof. W. Pfeffer .
The Nature and directly follows that the consumption of the material to be elaborate as well as the absorption of free oxygen by the organism , is rell lated in accordance with its requirements .
Consequently , when these requirements are fully satisfied , an increased supply of f00 material or of oxygen results in no essential acceleration of the func tiona , l metabolism .
For this reason plants do not breathe any mor rigorously in pure oxygen than in ordinary air , for even in the latte much more oxygen penetrates into the cell than is consumed ii normal respiration .
If , however , the supply is not sufficient to fully satisfy the demand then the functional metabolism , and with it the whole activity of tht organism , is unavoidably reduced , just as a fire can no longer burr properly when insufficiently supplied with fuel or with oxytren .
Most plants , however , can completely meet their demand for oxygen m an atmosphere in which the proportion of oxygen ( at ordinary atmospheric pressure ) is reduced to 5-8 per cent , , so that on the highest mountains vegetable organisms find a more than sufficient !
density of oxygen .
If its density be still further diminished , then , !
after a transient disturbance , the respiration and the total activity of the plant are depressed , so that in an atmosphere containing only 2-4 per cent , of oxygen the plant , though it survives , breathes and works in a diminished degree .
Since functional metabolism depends on the vital activities , a satisfactory causal explanation of the former will only be possible after we have gamed a sufficient insight into the latter .
In general , however , we may say that the same processes which effect intramolecular respiration also develop those affinities , by means of which free ygen when supplied , is drawn into metabolism .
For intraafte/ thp1 " re"P ; ratl'r " at once stoPped on access of oxygen , and tho R\#187 ; th thdraIal 'f oxreen is immediately resumed .
In much nhosnhm-Tr^ ^ a 6 develoPment of the spontaneously inflammable amount ^ hydr'geU bringS awe the 'f a certain and rpm'i f'7g ?
v m^7 Physiological combustion be determined auLvS !
h , ?
Ugt thG .
C'ntinaal forraati- \lt ; \gt ; f a singled with comnT + In Respiration , however , we have evidently to doji rfft reaCtl'nS and recipr'cal changes , which come into !
further Zl oonsUment V\amp ; Hbof the protoplasmic body .
An ] when wL ; T T Pr'CeSS mU8t take a somewhat different form* sulnhurpf/ 'n comPound , ammonia or ammonium nitrite ] \#166 ; " for physiolot drawn into ^ however , that in the plant passive oxygen is* active * !
^ me"ol'8m- " d that oxygen is not brought ilfo the f can t , r !
w wTdei\gt ; ?
accomplish physiological oxidation .
For we 1 P with complete certainty that at no time does any such j Significance of Functional Metabolism the Flant .
101 .ocess of oxidation occur in the interior of vitally active protoplasm icluding the nucleus ) , as is brought about by even the feeblest rm of active oxygen ( hydrogen peroxide ) .
This still holds good -en if the reactions of active oxygen are obtained in the expressed , p , i.e. , after mixing bodies which in the plant are separate .
If , \gt ; wever , active oxygen ever plays any part at all , it is at most to be igarded as one only of the means of which the organism avails self , and not as revealing the true and essential cause of functional letabolism .
Side by side with the general process of functional metabolism , lany other chemical operations must necessarily come into play , in rder to provide the various compounds which are formed in the rganism , in order to build up its tissues , or otherwise .
Although hese processes are not of necessity in continuous action , it is difficult o separate them irom the general functional metabolism .
We are .laced with regard to the plant , somewhat in the position of a man yho , while he can control the raw material introduced into a factory , nd the finished products turned out from it , is not permitted to nspect the internal working .
Unless the observer has a knowledge .f this from other sources , it is simply impossible for him to say what is* the nature of all the manifold operations carried on in a ihemical factory , whether simultaneously or successively , jointly or ieparately .
At the same time the observer may be quite aware that ill work in the factory is impossible if the fire be not burning under :he boiler , or if the driving power in general be not available , and he may also know that the gaseous products of combustion , the ashes and the slag , must be got rid of , simply in order to make room for the work to go on .
In the factory , however , just as in the plant , the general driving power is not always utilised for the same purposes or with equal efficiency .
Indeed , when the steam-engine is at work but the rest of the machinery is out of gear , the whole driving power is wasted .
No less is it true , in the case of the plant , that the relation between the available kinetic energy and its utilisation for various purposes , or in other words the economic coefficient , may vary within very wide limits according to the stage of development and the external conditions .
,

