]\gt ; The Theory the Katharometer .
The aqueous condensates from Experiment 2 were made slightly acid with hydrochloric acid and boiled with a solution of mercuric chloride , when gram of mercurous chloride was formed , corresponding to of formic acid .
The Theory of the Katharometer .
By H. A. DAYNES , M.Sc .
, University of Birmingham .
( With an Introductory note by G. A. SHAKESPEAI ; .
) Communicated Prof. Smith , Received January [ Historical Note by G. A. Shakespear , M.A. , D.Sc.\mdash ; In September , 1915 , at the request of a member of the Board of Invention and Research of the Admiralty , I undertook to devise an instrument capable of giving automatic indication of the presence of hydrogen in small quantities ( e.g. , 1 or 2 per cent. ) in air .
well-known surface-action of palladium and platinum wires suggested itself as a phenomenon obviously adapted to the purpose .
The wire was used as two arms of a Wheatstone bridge , one of these arms being protected from the gas by a thin glass tube , the other being exposed .
When a sufficiently great current of electricity Was passed through the bridge , the exposed arm rapidly increased in temperature owing to surface combustion .
The temperature , however , was liable to rise dangerously high if the hydrogen were present in suitable quantity , and , as safety from explosion was indispensable , this method was abandoned .
The same apparatus was then applied with a much lower current , and with the wires consequently at a much lower temperature , to make use of the increase in thermal conductivity of the gas due to the admixture of hydrogen .
This arrangement was found to be unexpectedly sensitive , and the method was adopted for the desired purpose .
As the iment was primarily intended to measure the purity of the air , the name " " katharometer\ldquo ; was given to it .
In its final form , the katharometer consisted of two small helices of thin VOL XCVII .
Mr. H. A. Daynes .
platinum wire ( about inch diameter ) , enqlosed each in one of two cells in a copper block .
The arrangement will be readily understood from a reference to the accompanying figure ( fig. 1 ) .
Each helix was mounted in a FIG. l.\mdash ; Diagram showing vertical section of the Katharometer .
small frame , consisting of a loop of copper wire soldered to a ring of copper .
This ring was fitted with an insulating plug , through which the lead also of copper , was introduced .
One extremity of the helix was soldered to the lead and the other to the distal end of the loop .
The outer part of the lead passed through a plug of rubber fitting into the cell , and over this rubber an ebonite plug was pressed down by a screw collar or nippleThus the rubber filled tightly the upper part of the cell , and access of air or gas could only take place by diffusion through the rubber .
This diffusion is a slow process , and , for the purpose for which the katharometer originally intended , such a joint was sufficiently nearly gas-tight .
Minor improvements in detail were afterwards introduced .
Both cells were The Theory of the Katharometer .
similarly fitted , but whereas one was thus hermetically sealed , the other communicated with the outer atmosphere through three small holes .
The resistance of each helix was about 8 ohms when cold , and the main working current in the bridge was usually ampe ; this was sufficient for most purposes , and gave the wires a temperature about C. above that of the block .
The remaining arms of the bridge were of anin wire .
The instrument proved valuable for war purposes in various ways , e.g. , in testing the purity of hydrogen in balloons , testing the permeability of balloon and airship fabrics to hydrogen , testing permeability of sheets of metal , etc. Notes on some of these applications ( which were confidential during the war ) will no doubt be published in due course by the proper authorities .
The katharometer has eady shown itself a valuable instrument for research , and is evidently capable of wide application .
Mr. H. A. Daynes , who was a research student under my , gave me valuable assistance hout , and , at my request , developed the theory of the katharometer , as described in the following paper .
] development of the katharometer as an instrument of precision demands some theory of its working to enable us to interpret its For this purpose some description of the apparatus is necessary .
The sensitive element is contained in a hole , cm .
long and cm .
in diameter , drilled in the copper block .
Its volume is , therefore , about .
The platinum helix is supported at the lower end on a frame of No. 22 S.W.G. wire rolled into a strip forming three sides of a rectangle and fitting fairly closely to the walls of the cell .
The other end is soldered to a copper lead , which enters through an ebonite at the upper end of the cell .
The helix is wound from about 8 cm .
of pure platinum wire , inch thick , the diameter of the spiral being about 1 mm. The resistance is about 10 ohms .
The length of the helix is about 8 mm. The electrical ement is shown in fig. 2 .
FIO .
2 .
Mr. H. A. Daynes .
Two arms of the Wheatstone bridge are the platinum spirals one exposed to the gas , whose composition is variable ) .
The other arms of nlanganin are joined by a graduated wire , and the point of contact ( P ) is always varied so that the galvanometer ( G ) gives zero reading .
The current is always adjusted to a definite value , Heat Losses in the Katharometer Cdl .
platinum wire is so thin that its temperature follows variations in the surrounding gas very quickly so we only have to consider steady conditions when the heat is carried away from the wire at the same rate as it is developed the current in the wire .
Radiation is ible .
If we take Lummer and Kurlbaum 's value the radiation for polished platinum where is the energy per second in watts , radiated per square centimetre , and is the temperature of the wire , it can be shown that at the highest temperatures used in the katharomeLer , the radiation loss is approximately per cent. of the total heat loss and is , of course , relatively less at lower temperatures .
The relative importance of convection and conduction is very difficult to estimate .
The cell was made small in order to increase conduction losses and decrease convection losses as far as possible .
This is of practical importance in making the readings independent of changes of pressure .
The obstructions to circulation of the gas must also tend to reduce convection considerably The circulation will cause least disturbance in the hbourhood of the wire where the temperature gradients are steep and so only operate when they can have little effect on the heat loss from the wire .
As evidence of the smallness of the convection effects it can be stated that the heat loss only increases per cent. for a rise in pressure of 1 cm .
of mercury .
Also very little change of zero takes place in tilting the katharometer into different positions and such change as there is may be due to the sagging of the wires .
It is not possible to calculate what would be the heat loss which would be accounted for by conductivity ; there are too many complications introduced by the of the cell .
It is , therefore , assumed hout the following theory that the convection losses , if not negligible , are so similar in their action to conduction losses that they only modify the absolute value of the heat losses .
So that when we speak of the conductivity of the gas in the cell we mean to include convection losses as well .
The Theory of the Katharometer .
We , therefore , consider as a hypothesis that the heat losses in the cell are proportional to the difference between the temperature of the and that of the copper block and also to the thermal " " conductivity\ldquo ; of the gas in the cell .
But the conductivity varies considerably with temperature so it is necessary to decide what to take as the mean thermal conductivity .
Let conductivity at temperature be where is a constant over the range considered .
In most simple cases it may be shown that , in the steady state , if and be the boundary temperatures of the medium , the mean conductivity The simple case which most nearly approaches that of the katharometer ia that of two co-axial cylinders at different temperatures and it can be shown that the above relation applies to this case .
The comparison with } co-axial cylinders would be complete if : ( 1 ) the radius of the wire were small compared with the distance between separate turns of the spiral and the radius of the chamber that the turns did not appreciably affect one another ; or ( 2 ) in the opposite extreme , if the spiral were so closely wound that the heat might be considered as developed uniformly over a cylinder on which lies the helical axis of the wire .
case of the katharometer is intermediate .
End Correction .
The effect of cooling of the end of the katharometer wire by the cool copper lead must next be considered .
The copper lead is thick compared with the ; platinum wire and is exposed , at a very short distance from the connection , to the outside air , so we shall assume , to get a rough idea of the magnitude of the error , that both the copper block and the end of the platinum wire are at .
zero ( room ) temperature .
We shall also neglect the variation in the resistanca from point to point of the wire , in considering the heat produced by tha current .
Consider a long thin platinum wire , adius a , of thermal conductivity and resistance per centimetre .
A current is flowing through it .
Let the temperature at a distance from the end at zero temperature be In a small element of length Heat produced per second by the current mechanical equivalent of heat Heat lost from sides by conduction per second Mr. H. A. .
Daynes .
Heat leaving the element by conduction along the wire to the cool part Heat entering the element by conduction from the warm palt , or The solution which satisfies the conditions is .
If the katharometer wire is enough for the centre not to be appreciably affected by end cooling , the resistance of a wire of length , whose temperature coefficient of resistance is Therefore , or the end correction is cm .
for each end .
To estimate this we may take the following experimental values for air cm .
, watts/ cm .
cals . .
sec. cm .
approximately .
This end correction must therefore be taken into account and determined with a fair degree of accuracy if any results are to be drawn from experiThe Theory of the rometer .
ments as to the thermal conductivity of a gas .
It will be seen that the end correction varies inversely as the square root of the conductivity of the gas .
Summary of Previous In 1916 the writer carried out some experiments to test the assumptions stated here as to the nature of the heat losses from a katharometer wire .
The way in which the temperature of a wire varied with rate of production of energy by the heating current was investigated .
This was done with both air and hydrogen surrounding the wire .
The results were such as to confirm the general conclusions reached in the discussion .
If is the current in a katharometer helix of resistance is a constant depending on the form of the helix , is the effective conductivity of the gas at C. , is the temperature coefficient of conductivity of the gas , is the temperature of the copper block , and the temperature of the hot wire , it was found that the relation was represented by an equation .
The following values were found for a typical helix .
In air watts/ lo and C. , and in watts/ lo C. and C. This gives The results are not of high precision , but they are sufficiently accurate to justify us in using the above equation to develop the theory of the action of two katharometer coils when used in a bridge as described at the beginning of the paper .
Under these conditions we have to take into account the fact that we do not measure the current through any one of the platinum coils , but the total current in the bridge , and the resistances of the katharometer coils .
It is proposed to find the ratio of the resistances of the two katharometer coils , as indicated by the balance point on the graduated bridge wire .
This will be carried as far as terms of the second order of temperature coefficients since the whole effect observed is of the first order of the temperature coefficient of resistance of the platinum wire .
To do this , we only need to determine the excess temperatures of the wires to the first order of temperature coefficients .
Mr. H. A. Daynes .
Notation .
temperature of copper block .
current in battery circuit .
temperature coefficient of resistance of platinum .
In the first katharometer coil : current through coil .
temperature of coil .
resistance of coil at temperature resistance of coil at temperature C. conductivity of gas surrounding coil when the wire is at a temperature conductivity of gas at constant depending on the shape of wire , etc. , and temperature coefficient of conductivity of gas surrounding the coil .
Similar letters with the suffix 2 refer to similar quantities in the second coil .
We shall find it convenient to denote the ratio by , a function inversely proportional to when the gas is varied .
We wish to take account of the three variables , when the first cell is used as a standard .
The experimental relations are , where and , and where and , to the necessary degree of approximation if The Theorg of the Katharometer .
Similarly since On the right-hand side of these equations we may substitute and Then and Now .
( 1 ) of .
It will be seen that the product is of the dimensions of a temperature and is the excess temperature which the first spiral would reach if both resistances and thermal conductivities kept the values they have at C. This is usually not more than C. Since is per degree Centigrade and and usually of the order of per degree Centigrade , is roughly not more than so that the products and are of the order of and respectively .
This will give some idea of the relative importance of th .
last two terms .
When the conductivity of one of the gases is changed , the main effect observed is represented by the term .
The sensitiveness , therefore , varies nearly as the square of the current if the bridge is always balancedMr .
H. A. Daynes .
But as the current is increased the potential fall across the bridge .
increased in proportion , and the galvanomete more sensitive to a given movement on the bridge wire .
The real sensitiveness , therefore , varies nearly as the cube of the current .
Deviations from this law are represented by the other three terms of the expression given above .
The second term represents the change of sensitiveness as the temperature of the katharometer changes .
For small values of if and are nearly the same the deflection has a temperature coefficient of , i.e. , the same as that of the conductivity of the gas but with the reversed .
The next term , represents the decrease in sensitiveness as the current rises , on account of the diversion of the current from the coil which is at the higher temperature to that which is at the lower temperature , thus tending to mask any difference in temperature between the two arms .
The effect becomes more marked at higher currents .
The last term expresses the fact that , as the current is increased , the mean temperature of the gas round the higher temperature coil rises more than that round the other coil , so that the resulting difference of temperature between the two coils is less than if the conductivities were independent of temperature .
Both of the last two terms are usually opposed to the main effect .
We can now consider special cases .
First consider the simple case where the two platinum coils are similar in resistance and shape , but the gas in the second chamber has a slightly different conductivity and not necessarily the same temperature coefficient of conductivity .
Let , .
Equation 1 ) then becomes .
( 2 ) Suppose the small change is produced by the admixture of a small percentage of another gas , and suppose over the range considered Then The Theory of the Katharometer .
Application of the Theory .
If and the balance point is independent of current and temperature , as we might expect .
In measuring small changes of conductivity or composition of a mixture it is most desirable that the zero should be independent of changes of current and temperature .
The main effect is eliminated if , so in all cases where small changes are to bs measured it is arranged , if possible , that .
( The methods of efl'ecting this will be discussed later , but we do not assume that and are necessarily equal .
) The variations of zero may be represented by the partial derivatives and substituting and values for and suitable to and the change of balance point for a given change of conductivity by .
In the case of small percentages of gases in air this is simple since and ' .
( 4 ) If the gas to be dealt with is considerably differe1lG from air , it is possible to keep the other coil of the katharometer surrounded by another gas whose conductivity is nearly that of the gas under investigation .
The following are examples of pairs of mixtures of gases and pure gases which are very roughly equal in conductivity : Pure methane and 15 per cent. hydrogen in air .
Coal gas and 50 per cent. hydrogen in air .
Oxygen and per cent. hydrogen in Ammonia and 10 per cent. of either carbon-dioxide or nitrous oxide in air .
In this case we have again , but does not necessarily equal so formula ( 2 ) applies .
Then , ( o ) , ( 6 ) and .
( 7 ) Mr. H. A. Daynes .
These equations show that , although , in the case of two different gases , the zero depends to a small extent on the current and temperature , the change of balance point for a given of conductivity is the same as if the gases had the same temperature coefficients of conductivity , provided that the change is reckoned from the zero suitable to the temperature and current at which the reading is taken .
( Because equations ( 4 ) and ( are identical .
) There is still another way of making , and this one is important , because it is the basis of the purity meter .
Suppose we have an ordinary katharometer , in which the coils are exactly similar and the excess temperature with both arms in air is about C. If one of these coils is now exposed to pure hydrogen , its excess temperature falls to about C. If now the current fell by 1 per cent. , the tempera of the unexposed coil would fall by about 1 per cent. without much alteration in that of the exposed one .
But the effect in the bridge would be the same as would be produced by the addition of about 5 per cent. of air to the hydrogen .
A change temperature would produce similar effects .
It is obvious , therefore , that it is impracticable to have a hydrogen purity meter reading to per cent. of impurity , or a research instrument ( as used .
in the measurement of the air permeability of indiarubber ) reading to per cent. of air , elaborate arrangements for keeping the current and temperature constant .
The difficulty is avoided by making the coil exposed to ( and its corresponding bridge coil ) lower in resistance than the other .
The greater part of the current then flows through this arm and raises its temperature , at the same time lowering the temperature of the other .
The ratio of resistances is so chosen that the temperature of the one coil in air is practically the same as that of the exposed one in hydrogen .
The variations of zero then nearly disappear .
This equalisation of temperatures is the physical meaning of making .
We have made The equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and ( 7 ) apply equally to this case and show that .
there is a small residual change of zero with temperature , since hydrogen and air have not the same temperature coefficients of conductivity .
This is eliminated in practice by inserting a small length of manganin wire in series .
with one of the katharometer coils , and it is found that the zero even then is , .
for all practical purposes , independent of changes of current .
Readings by Direct alvanometer Deflection .
In many cases it is convenient to keep the point of contact on the bridge wire fixed and read the direct deflections on the galvanometer when a change of resistance occurs in one.arm of the bridge .
In this case the assumptionThe of the Katharometer we have made before that the current is shared between the katharometer coils inversely as their resistance is not strictly true , because some current flows across from one side to the other through the galvanometer and slightly alters the temperature of the platinum coils .
Usually the current through the galvanometer is not more than amperes , and as the total current is amperes , the effect need only be taken into account in very accurate work .
Another point to be noticed is that , although in balanced bridge work the displacement of balance point has the same temperature coefficient as that of the conductivity of the purse gas , the direct deflection of the vanonleter in fixed bridge work does not vary in the same way .
This is because the .current through the galvanometer depends on all the resistances in the bridge , so that the increase of resistance in the platinum coils with increasing temperature of the block tends to give a greater current through the galvanometer for a given change of resistance in one arm .
Consider the arrangement shown in fig. and are manganin arms of the bridge , and and are the platinum coils of the katharometer .
The bridge is slightly out of balance , so that a current flows through the galvanometer when the current through the battery is always adjusted to a constant value .
It can then be shown that Let and where is small .
Then neglecting terms in in comparison with and If now and increase together in the same ratio , as they would in a Mr. H. A. Daynes .
The Process of katharometer for a given increase in room temperature if the gases had temperature coefficient of conductivity , In the simplest case , where and , as we usually have in a katharometer , this ratio is , i.e. , if the temperature coefficient of resistance of the platinum wire is per 1o C. we should expect the sensitiveness of the bridge to increase by about per cent. per 1o C. rise in temperature .
This would tend to reduce the expected fall of per cent. in sensitiveness due to the increase in conductivity of the air and give us a final temperature coefficient of direct deflection of per cent. per 1o C. This is in good agreement with an experimental value which gave per 1o C. The magnitude of the effect varies , of course , with the bridge arrangement .
The Process of Diffusion through Rubber Membrane .
By H. A. , M.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. S. W. J. Smith , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received January 5 , 1920 .
Introduction .
The production of balloon and airship fabrics in large quantities during the war has laised many problems in connection with leakage of hydrogen through membranes .
It is desirable to have more information about the process by which gas passes through such rubber In considering a rubber film , two alternatives have been suggested .
One is that the chief obstacle to the passage of a gas is that provided by the material itself , and that the gas can pass the surfaces of the film quite readily .
The other is that the chief obstacle is at the surface , the actual thickness of rubber having very little effect on the permeability .
The first view has been dealt with by Wroblewski ( 1 ) in 1879 .
He assumes : ( 1 ) That when a piece of rubber is left exposed to a gas at normal pressure it absorbs a volume of gas which is a definite fraction of its own volume , and that this fraction , which he calls the ' absorption coefficient varies with the temperature of the rubber .

