]\gt ; were eliminated , and obtained , as a result , a reduction of stress immediately after yield of about 16 per cent. Since the experiments here described by the present writers were carried out , Prof. W. E. Dalby has published an account of an optical raphic recorder , in which the measurement of the load is effected in a manner similar to that adopted by Kennedy , and in tests carried out on mild steel has observed a reduction of stress of about 13 per cent. * .
Soc. Proc vol. 65 , p. 172 .
'Proc .
Inst. Mech. Eng 1886 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 414 .
) Transition from Elastic to Plastic in Mild Steel .
463 In neither of these cases were any special precautio other than the use of spherical seatings ) taken to ensure that the stress distribution across the section of the test specimen was uniform ; such precautions are , indeed , unnecessary when it is desired merely to obtain a record of the load-strain relation throughout the plastic stage .
Prof. C. A. M. Smith has pointed out , *however , the importance of securing concentric loading of the specimen ( and consequent uniformity of stress ) in experiments dealing with the determination of the elastic limit and yield point , and has shown that even when the specimen is supported by nuts resting on spherical such a condition is nor necessarily guaranteed .
An arrangement whereby a much closer approaeh to truly axial loading is secured has been described by the authors in a previous paper , and has been used in the present work .
By this means , and also by hmiting the extension of the specimen immediately after yield to a very small amount , the authors have observed at this point a reduction of stress greater than 23 per cent. in 11 specimens of mild steel .
A sketch of the complete apparatus is shown in fig. 1 .
The specimen , of carefully annealed mild steel machined to about inch diameter , was screwed at each end into a hollow rectangular block of steel to which the load was transmitted through a steel ball co-axial with the centre line of the specimen and resting on the hardened surface of a stout steel cross-bar A. Care was taken in machining the block to ensure that the centre line of the hole into the specimen was tightly screwed passed the centre of the spherical cavity resting upon the steel ball .
The whole was attached to two heavy castings machined to fit the testing machine grips .
Two bars of mild steel inch diameter were supported by nuts bearing on machined surfaces at each side of the casting , and extensometers attached to them , by means of which the load occurring at any time in them was determinable , both bars having previously been independently calibrated .
The manner of carrying out a test was as follows:\mdash ; 'Engineering , ' Dec. 10 , 1909 , , p. 796 .
'Engineering , ' vol. 92 , p. 786 .
The specimens were made from ordinary mild steel , and the variations in the results of the tests may be due to a number of causes , of which the chief are ( 1 ) slight differences in composition or annealing , ( 2 ) slight deviations from true axiality in the applied load .
It may be mentioned here that a deviation of one five-hundredth of an inch of the resultant load $ from the axis of the specimen would cause the stress on one side of the specimen to be 4 per cent. in excess of the mean lred ) stress , and the 1913 .
to the Plastic State in Mild Steet .
465 observed stress at yield might therefore be below the true yield stress by an amount which would considerably affect the value of the stress reduction .
A confirmation of the results arrived at is , however , obtained by experiments on bending and torsion to be described later .
In the of the experiments it was considered desirable to determine the actual extensions in the test specimen immediately after yield in order to construct a stress-strain diagram .
The short of the specimen , however , prevented the use of any of the laboratory extensometers .
special apparatus was constructed for the purpose , the principle of which was that of Marten 's extensometer .
The diagram shown in fig. 2 has been constructed from observations taken with this instrument on specimen 1oo zoo FIG. 2 .
No. 8 .
The point A is limit beyond which it was impossible to carry the extension without readjustment the apparatus , on ount of the necessity of keeping the stress in the side bars well below the elastic limit .
Al this point the load was therefore relieved , the necessary adjustment made , and a second test performed of the same specimen .
It be seen that the stress now required to cause further deformation is not appreciably different from that existing in the specimen at the oonclusion of the previous test .
It would appear , therefore , that the " " drop\ldquo ; is a phenomenon associated solely with the breakdown from the inif , ial elastic state , and that the reduced stre remains at a fairly constant value over a total strain equal to several times the magnitude of the elastic strain .
urther evidence in confirmation of the results arrived at in the above cases , making certain assumptions , quation cbtained ewhen subjected tuniform stress Torsion furnish tstress distribution Ioers titude oeduction wehavi ' the relation between the moment , displacement , and stress duction after yield has taken place .
The magnitude of the reduction may therefore be obtained from the experimental observation of tffi moment and displacement .
Consider first the case of a bar of rectangular section subjected to a uniform bending moment .
If the stress at every point is below the elastic limit , its magnitude is proportional to the distance from the neutral plane , and is therefore a maximum at the extreme surfaces .
The displacement at the middle point is given by where stress at outer fibres , length , depth , 's modulus .
When the bending moment is increased beyond a certain amount , yield occurs in those parts subjected to the greatest stress , namely , the outer fibres .
It be assumed:\mdash ; ( 1 ) That plane sections remain plane .
( 2 ) That the stress in the overstrained part is uniform .
This assu ption is allowable , in view of the fact that the total strain in those parts is comparable to the elastic strain , and the stress variation has been shown to be very small for extensions of this magnitude ( see fig. 2 ) .
( 3 ) That the greatest stress in parts still elastic is equal to that required to initiate the yield .
That the stress distribution is symmetrical about the neutral plane .
* Let AB ( fig. represent the normal section of the beam , and be the maximum direct tensile stress the material is capable of withstanding without overstrain .
If to some scale , the stress at any point in AB , when the * This involves the assumption that the stresses at yield and the reduction of stresses after yield are the same in tension and compression .
If these two values are different , the reduction of stress actually occurring on the tension or compression sides must greater than the estimate from the following analysis .
1913 .
] Elastic to the Plastic in Mild Steel .
467 maximum bending moment consistent with perfect elasticity in all parts is applied , will be given by the ordinate at that point to the line t- If the bending moment is increased to some value , the extreme fibres will be overstrained , and the beam may be considered as made up of two parts , acentral elastic portion of depth in which the maximum stress still be , and ( 2 ) two portions , one at the upper and one at the lower : surface , in which the stress is assumed uniform , and in magnitude equal to .
The new distribution may be represented diagrammatically by the lines EE'C'D'F'F ( see fig. 3 ) .
The displacement produced by may be obtained by considering the equilibrium of the central elastic portion , and is given by But , the maximum displacement when the whole of the beam is elastic is given by and , therefore , , .
Now is equal to the sum of the moments of resistance of the different parts the beam .
Hence A number of tests were made on bars of annealed mild steel machined accurately to a rectangular section about 48 inch deep and inch wide .
A uniform bending moment was secured by applying the load outside the supports which were 3 inches apart .
The displacement of the central point relative to two fixed points situated in the neutral plane over the supports was obtained by observing the rotation of a 1mrror attached to a tripod resting with one leg on the beam and the other two on supports rigidly connected to the two points of reference .
The load was applied gradually , and the displacement read after each addition .
While the whole of the bar was elastic the position of equilibrium was reached immediately .
When yield occurred , the displacement continued to increase for a short time without the application of further load .
A diagram is given in fig. 4 showing the relation of bending moment to displacement throughout the test .
The relation , as will be seen , is a linear one until yield takes place , the latter being very definitely located by the ( 1 ) The probability that yield does not occur over the whole length of ths bar at the same time , but is at first localised at some point , from which it extends gradually , producing the slow continuous increase in the displacement under constant load .
( 2 ) The probability that yield in tension and compression do not occur simultaneously .
1913 .
Elastic to the Plastic State in Steel .
469 Both effects would make the displacement less than if yield took place simultaneously over the whole of the tension and compression surfaces .
Therefore it is probable that the position of the curve in the earlier stages of yield does not correspond with the true value of the stress reduction , and that the comparison of the theoretical and experimental curves is more legitimate in the later stages when yield has probably taken effect over the whole length .
Thus , in fig. 4 , although the double bend following on the yield point might correspond to a difference in the yield stress in tension and compression , it cannot be regarded as conclusive evidence on this point .
Though no definite value for the magnitude of the stress reduction can be looked for from the bending experiments , they suggest limits between which it may lie .
These limits would appear to be 25 and 33 per cent. The yield phenomenon in ductile materials is probably due mainly to shearing stress , therefore it was expected that some definite information on the value of the stress reduction at yield would be obtained from the consideration of a round bar subjected to torsion .
In this case the stress on every normal section is one of pure shear and varies uniformly from zero at the to a maximum at the surface , provided that the elastic limit is not exceeded .
An analytical investigation carried out in a precisely similar manner to that of a beam leads to the equation where and are twisting moments , and and the corresponding angular displacements at and after yield .
It will be seen from this equation that if is less than , or , in other words , if the stress reduction is greater than 25 per cent. , the angular displacement when the yield point is reached will continue toincrease without further increment in the twisting moment until the true plastic state is reached .
In experiments carried out on annealed mild steel bars inch diameter , it was found that this actually took place .
When the yield point was reached , the angular displacement increased at a slow but uniform rate under the same torque : The in in which the experiment was carried out only permitted a limited angular displacement , and when this was reached , the displacement was still increasing .
A diagram showing the experimental relation between twisting moment and angular together with the theoretical curves for various values of the percentage reduction is given in fig. 5 .
J. J. Guest , " " The Strength of Ductile MateriaIs under Combined Stress 'Phil .
Mag July , 1900 , Series V , vol. 60 .
that the hole was quite central , and that , therefore , the phenomenon was not due to eccentricity .
An explanation may be given in the following manner .
Owing to lack of homogeneity , yield may first take place on one side of the hole .
The stress at that part may thereby be relieved to the extent of per cent. , and the effect upon the rest of the cylinder will be the same as if the hole were elliptical .
If the defornlation of the external surface were measured on the diameter passing through the centre of the yielded part , *A similar effect has been observed by Mr. L. B. Turner , vol. 92 , p. 117 .
The innwnt of High Potentials by the Use of Radium .
471 contraction would probably be observed , which would not be converted into an extension until the whole of the internal surface had yielded .
Petavel , valuable 8uggestions iourse oorkBy HoSELEY , John Harling Fellow , University oanchesterThe.esire tecord their indebtedness tinment o ( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.RS .
Received April 22 , \mdash ; Read May 1 , 1913 .
) ' The original aim of the work described in this note was to measure the energy and numerical importance of each of the many distinct kinds of -particles emitted by a single radioactive substance .
Calculation of the energy of a -particle from observation of its deflection in a magnetic field* involves assumptions which are as yet insufficiently supported by experi- meant .
Theoretically both the energies and distribution of the particles could be directly measured by giving a gradually increasing positive charge to the source of radiation ; for , when the potential of the source is electTons possessing energy less than will be drawn back to the source of radiation .
Unfortunately , more than a million volts would be necessary to stop the fastest -particles , and no method is at present known of maintaining such a high potential in .
It was thought that this difficulty might possibly be overcome by using the active material itself in order to produce the high potential according to the inciple employed in Strutt 's radium clock .
If the source of radiation were perfectly insulated its potential would rise until the swiftest -particles could no longer escape .
The present note deals with made to test whether this method were practicab.le .
It was found that high potentials were readily obtained , but the attempt to attain to a million volts failed through the difficulties of insulation encountered .
But few experiments were completed , and many failed as the result of accident .
This shows that , even if perseverance had been rewarded by greater success , technical difficulties , accentuated by * Planck , ' Phys. Zsit 1906 , vol. 7 , p. 753 .
Strutt , ' Phil. Mag 1903 , vol. 6 , p. 688 .
A preliminary account of these experiments was communicated to the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society , November 12 , 1912 .

