414 Mrs. G. C. Franldand and Dr. P. F. Frankland .
[ Mar. 8 , Prestwich ( J. ) , E.RS .
Geology : Chemical , Physical , and Strati-graphical .
Yol .
II .
8vo .
Oxford 1888 .
The Author .
Sclater ( P. L. ) , F.R.S. , and W. H. Hudson .
Argentine Ornithology : a Descriptive Catalogue of the Birds of the Argentine Republic .
Yol .
1 .
8vo .
London 1888 .
The Authors .
March 8 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On some New and Typical Micro-organisms obtained from Water and Soil .
" By Grace C. Frankland and Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Bond .
) , F.C.S. , F.I.C. , Assoc. Roy .
Sell , of Mines .
Communicated by Professor T. H. Huxley , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous communication , * the authors have given a detailed description of a number of micro-organisms\#151 ; Bacilli and Micrococci \#151 ; which they had obtained in the course of investigations on the distribution of micro-organisms in the atmosphere .
The present paper deals similarly with a number of typical and characteristic micro-organisms which they have derived from various natural waters .
The authors refer to the forms which have been obtained from water by previous observers , more especially to the " peach-coloured bacterium , " the " Oladothrix dichotomaand the " Grenothrix Jciihni-ana , " as well as to others which have been more recently isolated by means of the method of gelatine-plate cultivation .
The authors point out the striking difference between the aerial and aquatic micro-organisms , micrococci being the predominant forms amongst the former , whilst bacillar forms are almost exclusively present in water .
In fact all the aquatic forms described are bacilli .
* " Studies on some New Micro-organisms obtained from Air , " * Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 178 , p. 257 .
1888 .
] New Micro-organisms from Water and Soil .
415 The chemical action which the several micro-organisms described exert upon certain solutions containing salts of ammonia arid of nitric acid respectively has been investigated by one of the authors , with the result that whilst none of the forms in question were found to oxidise ammonia either to nitrous or -nitric acids , several of them were found to exert a powerfully reducing action on nitrates , converting the latter into nitrites , others were without any action on the nitric acid , and others again caused the disappearance of an appreciable proportion of the nitric acid without production of a corresponding amount of nitrite .
The authors point out that these differences in the behaviour of micro-organisms when introduced into solutions containing nitrates are capable of furnishing very important data for distinguishing between forms which otherwise present very close resemblance .
Thus Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus cereus , previously described by them as closely resembling each other , can be easily distinguished by the behaviour which they respectively exhibit towards the nitrate-solution , for whilst both grow luxuriantly in this medium , the Bacillus subtilis has no action on the nitric acid which can be quantitatively recovered , the Bacillus cereus , on the other hand , powerfully reduces the nitrate with formation of nitrite .
The nitrate-solution employed for the purpose of these experiments contained potassium phosphate , magnesium sulphate , calcium chloride , calcium nitrate , invert sugar , peptone , and an excess of calcium carbonate .
The following is a brief account of the descriptions given of the various micro-organisms:\#151 ; Bacillus arborescens.\#151 ; This is seen under a high power ( X 1000 diameters ) to be a slender bacillus giving rise to wavy threads , sometimes of considerable length .
No spores were observed .
In drop cultivations it is seen to be vibratory .
On gelatine plates it produces highly characteristic colonies .
Under a low power ( x 100 diameters ) the centre is seen to consist of a thin axial stem with root-like branches from each of its two extremities , this stem thickens as growth proceeds , and the ramified extremities become so largely developed that the whole colony has the appearance of a wheat sheaf .
The plate is slowly liquefied , and the periphery of the colony extends irregularly and to some distance from the centre , over the surface of the gelatine , giving rise to beautiful iridescent colours. .
On potatoes it produces a fine deep-coloured orange pigment .
On nitrates it has no action in the solution employed .
Bacillus aquatilis.\#151 ; This is a slender bacillus also giving rise to wavy threads .
No spores were observed , and the individual bacilli are seen in drop cultivations to exhibit only an oscillatory motion .
On gelatine plates the contour of the colony becomes more and 416 Mrs. Gr .
C. Frankland and Dr. P. F. Frankland .
[ Mar. 8 , more irregular as they approach the surface ; when liquefaction of the gelatine commences , which only takes place excessively slowly , convoluted bands of threads are seen to extend from the centre towards the periphery .
It grows with great difficulty in all the media employed with the exception of the aqueous solution , in which it grows abundantly , but does not convert the nitrate into nitrite .
Bacillus liquidus.\#151 ; This is a short fat bacillus of very variable dimensions .
In drop cultivations they are seen usually hanging together in pairs , and exhibit great motility .
It liquefies the gelatine , rapidly producing large circular depressions with almost clear contents on gelatine plates .
It produces a smooth shining expansion on agar-agar , and on potatoes a thick flesh-coloured pigment .
It reduces the nitrate powerfully in the aqueous solution employed .
Bacillus vermicularis.\#151 ; This is a large bacillus with rounded ends , giving rise to extensive vermiform threads .
It produces fine oval spores .
In drop crystallisations it exhibits oscillatory movement only .
It powerfully reduces nitrates to nitrites .
Bacillus nubilus.\#151 ; This is a fine slender bacillus , which gives rise to wavy threads .
Ho spores were observed .
In drop cultivations the isolated bacilli exhibit violent circular movements with but little motion of translation .
On gelatine plates the growth is very characteristic , nothing being visible but patches of cloudy expansions with , in some cases , a very faintly-defined centre .
The gelatine rapidly becomes softened , and liquefaction soon follows .
In gelatine-tubes the same characteristic cloudy appearance is produced .
Its growth in the aqueous solution described results in the reduction of a very small proportion of the nitrate to nitrite .
Bacillus ramosus.\#151 ; This is a large bacillus much resembling B. this , giving rise to long threads and spores , which are , however , rounder in shape than those of the latter organism .
In drop cultivations the isolated bacilli exhibit very slight oscillatory movement .
The colonies on the gelatine plates are seen to consist of a cloudy centre with tangled root-like branches which extend in every direction .
Later liquefaction of the gelatine takes place .
In gelatine the whole of the tube becomes impregnated with fluffy ramifications , later liquefaction takes place , and a tough pellicle forms on the surface .
When grown on potatoes , it forms a dry continuous surface expansion which is almost quite white .
It exerts a powei'fully reducing action on nitrates in the solution employed .
1888 .
] New Micro-organisms from Water and Soil .
417 Bacillus aurantiacus.\#151 ; This is a short fat bacillus of very variable dimensions .
No spores were observed .
In drop cultivations the isolated bacilli are seen to be motile .
On gelatine plates it produces bright orange pin-heads , but on potatoes it gives rise to a magnificent , brilliant red-orange pigment , which does not however extend far from the point of inoculation .
It reduces the nitrates to nitrites only very slightly in the solution employed .
Bacillus viscosus.\#151 ; This is a short bacillus about three or four times as long as broad , occurring mostly in pairs .
No spores were observed .
It is exceedingly motile .
It very rapidly liquefies the gelatine , rendering it very viscid and colouring it green .
On agar-agar the whole surface quickly assumes a green tint .
No reduction of the nitric acid takes place when grown in the aqueous solution described .
Bacillus violaceus.\#151 ; This is a bacillus varying in thickness , sometimes appearing short and stout , but when grown on agar assuming a far more slender appearance ; it also gives rise to short threads .
Spore formation was observed .
In drop cultivations they are seen to be motile , the movement being , however , principally vibratory and rotatory .
It produces on agar-agar a fine dark violet expansion .
It powerfully reduces nitrates to nitrites when grown in the aqueous solution employed .
Bacillus diffusus.\#151 ; A fine slender bacillus recurring frequently in pairs , and giving rise also occasionally to long undulating threads .
No spores were observed .
In drop cultivations the bacilli are seen to execute vigorous oscillatory and rotatory movements , but do not traverse the field of the microscope .
On gelatine plates the colonies give rise on reaching the surface to a halo , which , extending from the cenh'e , spreads to a considerable distance round , and is composed of a very thin and characteristically mottled expansion .
It slightly reduces the nitrates to nitrites when grown in the aqueous solution employed .
Bacillus candicans.\#151 ; This bacillus varies very much in form in one and the same cultivation and still more in cultivations with different media sometimes it has almost the appearance of a micrococcus , at other times it shows a tendency to grow into short threads .
In drop cultivations the same variety of forms was observed , but in no case was anything but oscillatory motion visible .
When grown on gelatine plates it produces surface expansions much resembling drops of milk .
Mr. F. Gotch .
Electromotive Properties of [ Mar. 8 , Although it grows abundantly in the aqueous solution employed , it exerts no reducing action on the nitric acid .
Bacillus scissus.\#151 ; In form this organism much resembles Bacillus prodigiosus .
In no case were spores observed .
In drop cultivations it is seen to be very motile .
It produces pale light green surface expansions on gelatine plates which , under a low power ( x 100 diameters ) , are seen to be of fine granular texture , the edge being much frayed out .
In tubes the gelatine and agar-agar become tinted green .
It powerfully reduces nitrates to nitrites in the solution employed .
Of the above , the first nine were derived from water , whilst the remaining three were obtained from garden soil .
The original descriptions are illustrated by drawings of the various micro-organisms as seen in microscopic preparations , and of the appearances to which they give rise in gelatine-plate and other cultivations .
II .
" Further Observations on the Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Torpedo marmorata .
" By Francis Gotch , M.A. Oxon .
, B.A. , B.Sc. London .
Communicated by Prof. J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In the present memoir the author details the results of further observations as to the electromotive properties of the electrical organ of Torpedo , the experiments being carried out in October , 1887 , at the laboratory of the Societe Scientifique dArcachon .
I. The first part of the work deals entirely with the phenomena of " irreciprocal conduction " in the organ of Torpedo , as described by du Bois-Reymond .
From du Bois-Reymond 's experiments it would appear that the organ possesses the remarkable property of conducting an intense current of short duration , led lengthwise through its columns , better when the current is directed from its ventral to its dorsal surface than when directed the reverse way .
The former direction coincides with that of the current of the shock of the organ , and is therefore termed by him " homodromous , " the latter being opposite in direction , is termed " heterodromous .
" The evidence rests upon the value of the galvanometric deflections obtained when both currents are allowed to traverse a strip of organ and a galvanometric circuit .
The deflections are markedly unequal , particularly when induced currents are used , the homodromous effect being always much greater than the

