168 Structure , ^c .
, of the Fossil [ June 15 , If the significance of these Amphibian characters is further found , as I urge , in a sequence of affinity between the Sanropterygia , Nothosauria , and Anomodontia , we should be justified in anticipating that there might he a community of plan in the shoulder girdle of those groups which would enable homologous elements to be recognised .
Until such comparisons fail , they cannot he disregarded .
The view which I have discussed in justification of that offered to the Royal Society in 1892 may be summarised in the statement that the Anomodont is a type in which the precoracoid is ossified ; that in the Nothosaur the precoracoid has ceased to be ossified , but is represented by cartilage ; while in the Plesiosaur the precoracoid cartilage appears to be lost .
But with this change there is no change of plan in the clavicular arch , other than results from the different habits of the several orders of animals and the forms of the girdle bones with which the arch is associated .
XIII .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Repl ilia .
Part VIII .
On further Evidences of Feuterosaurus and from the Permian Rocks of Russia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The author endeavours to separate the Labyrinthodont remains , distinguished by having teeth anchylosed to the jaw , from such as belong to animals having a Theriodont type of dentition .
The genera founded upon cranial fragments which show the Theriodont type are Deuterosaurus , Rhopalodon , and The skull in T)enterosaurus is described from new materials , which make known the structure of the palate and other cranial structures .
The palate is of Plesiosaurian type .
The back of the skull is a vertical plate , and the brain cavity rises in a long vertical tubular mass to the parietal foramen .
The quadrate bones descend below the foramen magnum in a way that is best compared with Plesiosaurs .
The articular end of the lower jaw is identified among bones figured by von Meyer . .
The skull of Rhopalodon is nearly complete , and has a general resemblance to the skull of the South African Dicynodont thus .
The orbit is defended with a sclerotic circle of bones .
Whereas in Deuterosaurus there is only one molar tooth , in Rhopalodon there are apparently eight molar teeth , which have the posterior edge finely ( serrated .
The vertebrae are known from isolated and connected specimens which indicate a larger number than usual of rib-bearing .presaoral 1893 .
] The Menstruation of Semnopithecus entellus .
169 vertebrae , which appear to be not fewer than nineteen , and may have numbered twenty-six .
The sacral vertebrae are deeply cupped , and the sacral ribs are developed as in Nothosaurus andPareiasaurus .
The sacral ribs form part of the articular face of the first sacral vertebra .
The pelvis is imperfectly known ; the ilium is not so extended as in Dicyn-odonts , and conforms to the type of which is regarded as Theriodont .
The pubis and ischium are united together on the Dicynodont plan , but are only moderately developed .
The scapular arch is completely known , and is formed of scapula , coracoid , and pre-coracoid as in Dicynodon and Pareiasaurus .
The humerus and bones of the fore limb were relatively short , and only fragments have been preserved which appear to be referable to ulna and radius .
The hind limb is known from several examples of the femur , which resembles that of Pareiasaurus in the proximal end , but at the distal end is more like the type described as Saurodesmus .
The tibia is known from its proximal and distal ends ; it has a general resemblance to that of Pareiasaurus , but is more slender .
These types are regarded as , constituting a distinct group , named Deuterosauria , which is in many respects intermediate between the Placodontia and Theriodontia , but in skull structure appears also to ; approach Nothosaurs and Plesiosaurs .
XIV .
" The Menstruation of Semnopithecus entellus .
" By Walter Heap , M.A. , Balfour Student at the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster Sec.- R.S. Beceived May 16 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The specimens used in the following investigation were collected in Calcutta in 1891 .
The phenomena attending menstruation are grouped into four periods , and these are subdivided into eight stages : A. Period of rest .
Stage I. The resting stage .
B. Period of growth .
Stage 11 .
The growth of stroma .
Stage III .
The growth of vessels .
C. Period of degeneration .
Stage IV .
The breaking down of vessels .
Stage V. The formation of lacunae .
Stage VI .
The rupture of lacunae .
Stage VII .
The formation of the menstrual clot .
D. Period of recuperation .
Stage VIII .
The recuperation stage .
The body of the uterus consists of an internal mucosa and external muscle layers .
The mucosa is composed of uterine and glandular epithelium , blood vessels , a few radial muscles , and stroma .
The

