1874 .
] On Organisms in the Liquor Sanguinis .
391 before so crowded with these bodies , becomes , as the pustulation advances , entirely free from them .
8 .
The concluding section of the paper is occupied with the description of the secondary eruption , the anatomical characters of which very closely resemble those which have been already detailed .
Y. " Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; No. IV .
By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Maps of the spectra of calcium , barium , and strontium have been constructed from photographs taken by the method described in a former communication ( the third of this series ) .
The maps comprise the portion of the spectrum extending from wave-length 3900 to wave-length 4500 , and are laid before the Society as a specimen of the results obtainable by the photographic method , in the hope of securing the cooperation of other observers .
The method of mapping is described in detail , and tables of wave-lengths accompany the maps .
The wave-lengths assigned to the new lines must be considered only as approximations to the truth .
Many of the coincidences between lines in distinct spectra recorded by former observers have been shown , by the photographic method , to be caused by the presence of one substance as an impurity in the other ; but a certain number of coincidences still remain undetermined .
The .question of the reversal of the new lines in the solar spectrum is reserved till better photographs can be obtained .
YI .
" An Account of certain Organisms occurring in the Liquor Sanguinis .
" By William Osler , M.D. Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1874 .
In many diseased conditions of the body , occasionally also in perfectly healthy individuals and in many of the lower animals , careful investigation of the blood proves that , in addition to the usual elements , there exist pale granular masses , which on closer inspection present a corpuscular appearance ( Plate V. fig. 1 ) .
There are probably few observers in the habit of examining blood who have not , at some time or other , met with these structures , and have been puzzled for an explanation of their presence and nature .
vol. xxn .
2 n

