VIII .
Letter from Dr. HERAPATH to Professor STOKES , " On the Compounds of Iodine and Strychnine .
" Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received June 21 , 1855 .
June 20 , 1855 .
MY DEAR SIR , -Will you do me the favour to announce to the Royal Society , that I have been engaged , during some months past , in investigating the optical and chemical properties of some crystalline compounds of iodine and strychnine which appear to be strongly indicative and peculiar ?
One of these bodies , from the analysis hitherto made , would seem to have a formula not very different from the following , viz. C4 H22 N2 04+ I , and crystallizes in hexagonal prisms , passing by the ordinary replacement planes to the acute rhombohedron and other forms , all apparently derived from the rhombohedric system ; some of these crystalline forms are very strange and unusual .
This substance possesses " double absorption " in a very evident degree , and when examined by vertically plane polarized light , the hexahedral prisms are all obstructive of the polarized beam when the length of the prisms lies parallel to the plane of the incident ray ; in this position they appear dark sienna-brown in colour ; when the long axis of the prisms lies perpendicular to the plane of primitive polarization the crystals transmit a lemon-yellow tint , passing through greenish yellow to sherry-brown .
The other substance appears to be the sulphate of iodo-strychnia , and has a decidedly metallic green reflexion , crystallizes in stellate aggregations of prisms , brilliantly green by reflected light , but having a deep blood-colour by transmission ; these also possess double absorption and are very peculiar , as a slight increase in thickness renders them wholly impervious to light .
When these matters have been more carefully worked out , I hope to have the pleasure of communicating the results to the Society : in the mean time the present notice will be sufficient for the object in view .
I remain , my dear Sir , Yours very truly , W. BIRD HIEAPATH .
Professor Stokes , F.R.S.

