3 .
" On a ''heory of the conjugate relations of two rational integral functions , comprising an application to the Theory of Sturm 's Functions , and that of the greatest Algebraical Common Measure .
" By J. J. Sylvester , Esq. , MA .
, F.R.S. , Barrister at Law .
Received June 16 , 1853 .
The menmoir consists of four sections .
In the first section , the theory of the residues obtained by applying the process of the common measure to two algebraical functions is discussed .
It is shown that a certain superfluous or allotrious factor enters into each , the value of which , in terms of the leading coefficients of the residues in their simplified form , is determined ; and the simplified residies themselves are subsequently obtained from the given functions by a direct method .
In the case where the two functions are of the same degree ( m ) in x , m functions of the degree m-i1 in .
x are formed , which , being identical with those employed in the process which goes by the naime of Bezout 's abridged method , the author terms the Bezoutics or Bezoutic primaries .
By linear elimination performed between these , a second system of functions , whose degrees in x extend from m-1 to 0 , are formed , which he terms the Bezoutic secondaries : these Bezoutic secondaries are proved to be identical with the simplified residues .
A sirailar theory is shown to be applicable in the general case of the functions being of unlike degrees .
Other modes of obtaining the simplified residues by a direct method are also given .
The coefficients of the primary system of Bezoutics form a square symmetrical about one axis , to which ( as to every symmetrical matrix ) a certain homogeneous quadratic function of ( m ) variables is appurtenant .
This quadratic function is termed the Bezoutiant , the properties of which are discussed in the fourth section .
Every residue is what may be termed a syzygetic function or conjunctive of the two given functions ; these being respectively multiplied by certain appropriate rational integral functions , their sum may be made to represent a residue .
These multipliers are termed the syzygetic multipliers ; and they form two series , one corresponding to the successive numerators , the other to the successive denominators of the convergents to the algebraical continued fraction which expresses the ratio of the two given functions .
The residues are obviously a particular class of the conjunctives that can be formed from the given functions ; every conjunctive has the property of vanishing when the two functions to which it is appurtenant vanish simultaneously ; and in general , for any given degree in x , an infinite number of such conjunctives can be formed .
In the second section , the author commences with obtaining in terms of the roots and factors of the two given functions , a variety of forms , all containing arbitrary forms of function in their several terms , and representing a conjunctive of any degree not exceeding the sum of the degrees of the two given functions in its most general form .
The author then reverts to the Bezoutic system of the first section , and obtains the general solution for the conjunctive of any given degree in x in terms of the coefficients of the given function ; by aid of this general solution he demonstrates that the residues obtained by the common measure process ( divested of their allotrious factors ) , are the conjunctives of the lowest weight in the roots of the given functions for their several degrees ; and obtains the value of this weight .
He then demonstrates that certain rational but fractional forms ascribed to the arbitrary functions in the general expressions for a conjunctive in terms of the roots , will make these expressions integral and of the minimum weight ; they will all be consequently identical ( save as to a numerical factor ) with one another , and with the simplified residues .
The formulae thus obtained for the simplified residues deserve particular attention on their own account , 'being double sums of terms , any single series of which is made up of fractions whose denominators are the products of the differences between a certain number of the roots of each one of the functions and a certain other number of the same combined in every possible manner , thus containing a vast extension of the ordinary theory of partial fractions .
The author subsequently determines under a similar form , the valhe of each of the multipliers which connects the given functions syzygetically with the simplified residues , and establishes a general theorem of reciprocity , by aid of certain general properties of continued fractions , between the series of residues and either series of syzygetic multipliers .
The third section is divided into two parts .
The first part is devoted to a determination of the values of the preceding formulae in the case to which Sturm 's theorem refers , where one of the given functions is the first differential derivative of the other ; when this is the case the roots and factors of the second function are functions of those of the first , and it will be found that one of the polymorphic representations for the residue of any given degree will consist of terms , each of which is convertible into an integral function of the roots and factors of the given primitive function ; in this way are obtained the author 's well-known formula for Sturm 's auxiliary functions .
In like manner , the multiplier which affects the derivative function in the syzygy between the primitive , the derivative and any simplified residue , may also be expressed immediately as a sum of integral functions of the roots and factors of the primitive , complementary in some sort to the formulae for the residues .
The formula for the remaining syzygetic multiplier , ( that which attaches to the primitive itself , ) cannot be obtained directly by a similar method , but it is deduced by aid of the syzygetic equation itself , all the other of the five terms of which are known , or have been previously determined .
The process of obtaining this last-named multiplier is one of great peculiarity and interest , and results in a form far more complex than that for the residues orfor the othersyzygetic multiplier .
In the second part of the third section are contained some curious and valuable expressions for the residues and multipliers , communicated to the author by M , Hermit ; and an instantaneous demonstration is given of the properties of the author 's formula for Sturm 's auxiliary functions in determining the real roots of an equation by a method quite irrespective of the theory of the common measure , and depending upon a certain extremely simple but unobserved law of quadratic forms , which he terms the law of inertia .
In place of these formulae it is shown that others greatly more general , and possessing the same properties as regards the determination of the real roots , may be substituted ; the known formula are , however , the most simple that can be employed .
The author then proceeds to inquire as to the nature of the indications afforded by the signs of a series of successive simplified residues , taken between any two functions independent of one another , instead of standing in the relation of primitive and derivative , as in Sturm 's theorem ; this leads to the theory of interpositions , of wheh it is shown that the Sturmian theorem may be treated ( not so much as a particular case ) as an easy corollary .
In this part , the author obtains an entirely new rule for determining , in an infinite variety of ways , a superior and inferior limit to the real roots of any algebraical equation , whether numerical or literal .
rlhe fourth section is also divided into two parts .
In the first part , the index of interposition for two functions of the same degree is shown to be determinable by means of the quadratic form , previously termed the Bezoutiant ; and as a corollary , it follows that the number of real roots of an equation of the degree m depends in a direct manner on the number of positive roots in another equation of the degree mn-- , all of whose roots are real , and the coefficients of which are quadratic combinations of the coefficients of the given equation .
In the second part of this section , the Bezoutiant is considered under a purely morphological point of view .
It is shown to be a combinantive invariant of the two given functions ( each treated as homogeneous functions of two variables ) , remaining unaltered when any linear combination of the two given functions is substituted for the functions themselves , and also when any linear substi , tutions are impressed upon the variables of the given functions , provided that certain corresponding substitutions are impressed upon the variables of the Bezoutiant .
The family of forms to which the Bezoutiant belongs is ascertained , and a method given for finding the constituent forms of this family ( one less in number than the number of odd integers not exceeding in magnitude the degree of either of the given functions which , throughout this section , are supposed to be of equal dimensions in x ) , of which all other forms of the family will be numerico-linear functions .
The numerical coefficients connecting the Bezoutiant with this constituent group , are calculated for the cases corresponding to any index from 1 to 6 in elusive .
Finally , the author remarks upon the different directions in which the subject matter of the ideas involved in Sturm 's justly celebrated theorem admits of being expanded , and of which the most promising is , in his opinion , that which leads through the theory of interpositions .
Several of the theorems in this memoir have been previously published by the author , but they are here given along with a great deal of new natter in a connected form , and with the demonstrations annexed , for the first time .

