400 Mr. Alex .
McAulay .
On [ Apr. 28 , X 589 .
It probably arises from the presence of traces of the green alteration-product of turacin formed during the preparation of that pigment in the isolated condition , an alteration-product which is likely to prove identical with Krukenberg 's turacoverdin .
5 .
Turacin in ammoniacal solution remains unchanged after the lapse of twenty-three years .
6 .
Turacin in the dry state , when suddenly and strongly heated , yields a volatile copper-containing red derivative , which , though undissolved by weak ammonia-water , is not only soluble in , but maybe crystallised from , ether .
7 .
Turacin in the dry state , when heated in a tube surrounded by the vapour of boiling mercury , becomes black , gives off no visible vapour , is rendered insoluble in alkaline liquids , and is so profoundly changed that it evolves no visible vapour when afterwards strongly heated .
8 .
The accurate analysis of turacin offers great difficulty .
The percentage composition , as deduced from those determinations which seem most trustworthy , is\#151 ; Carbon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 53'69 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4*60 Copper ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 7'01 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6'96 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
27'74 These numbers correspond closely with those demanded by the empirical formula C82H81C u2N9032 , although the author lays no stress upon this expression .
9 .
Turacin presents some analogies with hsematin , and yields , by solution in oil of vitriol , a coloured derivative , turacoporphyrin .
The spectra of this derivative , both in acid and alkaline solution , present striking resemblances to those of hsematoporphyrin , the corresponding derivative of hsematin .
But copper is present in the derivative of turacin , w hile iron is absent from its supposed analogue , the derivative of hsematin .
III .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Electro-magnetism .
" By Alex .
MoAulay , M.A. , Ormond College , Melbourne , Communicated by the Rev. N. M. Ferrers , D.D. , F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) It will conduce to clearness to give some account here of the objects and aims of what is to follow .
The part of the paper succeeding this Introduction is in three main divisions : The groundwork Ik ; hi H k. if \#187 ; \#171 ; 1 mil pki W pi I m r IK if \#166 ; *1 it i it s( fta Sty , the Tin-8 .
a , the at aB^ 1892 .
] Mathematical Theory of Electro-magnetism .
of the theory , The establishment of general results , and The detailed examination of these results .
, " , The groundwork of the theory , though not the longest of these , calls for most attention here .
It is divided into two parts Fundamental assumptions and Preliminary dynamical and thermodynamical considerations .
I do not propose to give here presume of the different parts , hut to call attention to certain prominent features .
The two most important of the fundamental assumptions are , perhaps , first , that in all cases 4tt0 = VyH , which I take to be one of the most characteristic features , if not the most characteristic , of Maxwell 's theory ; and , secondly , that the modified Lagrangian function per unit volume , though of course it contains H , does not contain any term involving magnetic moment per unit volume or magnetic induction .
Neither of these assumptions seems to be at variance with Maxwell 's , and , as hinted , the first is taken up mainly because it is a fundamental feature in his theory .
From the first it follows that C must obey the laws of incompressibility , and this naturally leads to the assumption that D also invariably obeys those laws .
The second leads to very impoitant consequences , which I believe have not before been traced , and which I wish to call attention to here .
Though not put quite in this form below , they amount to this , that HV^ where l is the modified Lagrangian function per unit volume of the standard position of matter , obeys the law of incompressibility , that round every circuit there is an electromotive force equal to the rate of decrease of the surface integral of 47thyZ through the circuit , and that Hy\#163 ; \#151 ; H/ 47T appears in subsequent equations in such a manner as to compel us to identify it with the magnetic moment per unit volume.* It is clear then that 4\#187 ; h Vlis , according to the present theory , the magnetic induction .
As the theory is developed below , it is convenient to define B as equal to 4tthVZ , and call B the magnetic induction , leaving the justification till we examine the detailed consequences of the theory .
It is well to insist on this result here , as it does not appear obvious in the work below , but only comes out when a general review of a great part of the paper is made .
To put the matter in the form of a proposition : If the two fundamental assumptions are made ( 1 ) 4 ttC VvH and ( 2 ) that l , the Lagrangian function per unit volume , can be expressed in terms involving H , but independent of magnetic induction and of 'Magneticmoment per unit volume , then the magnetic induction must be ==47rH Vl .
Strictly speaking , the last clause should be modified by the condition if the Present position be taken as the standard position .
" This , however , is only an accident of the particular form of enunciation , which at the present stage is Unavoidable .
Mr. Alex .
McAulay .
On are [ Apr. 28 , The other most important features of the fundamental assumptions first those already described with reference to the electric co-ordinates , and the expression for the current in terms of the displacement , and , secondly , the manner in which are treated the two currents , conduction and dielectric ( the latter being inappropriately on the present theory denominated the " displacement current " ) .
If there are ( and physicists seem agreed on the point ) two independent currents whose sum appears in the equation 4ttC = VvH , and whose sum obeys the laws of incompressibility , it seems to me of the nature of a truism that there must be also two independent electric displace-ments , whose sum obeys the laws of incompressibility .
I , therefore , from the very beginning recognise two displacements , d and which I call , for want of better names , the dielectric and conduction displacements.* This naturally leads to the contemplation of two independent kinds of electro-motive force .
This last , however , is subsequently satisfactorily disposed of .
Before leaving the fundamental assumptions let me remark that , though in some important respects the present theory may seem to differ from Maxwell 's , it will be found , I think , that just where the difference seems to be most marked , is Maxwell 's theory most vague .
All the differences , if they really be such , have been forced on me unwillingly in the attempt to put into definite form what I take to be the essence of Maxwell 's theory .
At any rate the results , though not in every respect identical with Maxwell 's , are yet so nearly identical that the true matter for surprise is that they differ so little and in such unimportant ways from his .
It must be added , to prevent misconception of my own views , that I by no means consider proven , what I regard as the key to Maxwell 's theory , and what I have strictly adhered to in this paper , the assumption that under all circumstances 47rC = VvH .
My position rather is that , while the assumption may or may not be true , it is desirable to investigate as generally as possible what must be true , and what cannot be true if the assumption is made .
In other words , I do not think that Maxwell 's theory has yet had a fair trial , even at the hands of mathematicians , and the present paper is an attempt to provide more ways and means than hitherto have been available , for such a trial .
The methods adopted are equally applicable to other sots of fundamental assumptions .
r. , r jjiiip 0^ \amp ; ite ' fa k. * Perhaps it would be better to call them the and displacements , k or the reversible and irreversible displacements .
I wish to leave this point open for ^ those better qualified tc decide .
Of the three sets of terms suggested above , the last \#166 ; seems to me the best .
The only reason for adopting in the present paper the names \lt ; 1 fill O Qoomu^l-iA\#171 ; o rn SllOJl given in the text is to imply the origin of the assumption that there are two such displacements .
Of course , if we call the two displacements reversible and irre- f veisible , we must also call the corresponding currents reversible and irreversible* jj lg92\lt ; ] Mathematical Theory of Electro-magnetism .
4(V\gt ; Hi i ^ I ' aispla t*oc \gt ; 1 .
I 1 isle i 'H.an j of ill \#153 ; ( try ( I Wi i| II .atios b:| Turning to the second part of the groundwork , the preliminary \#166 ; , namicaland thermodynamical considerations , it is necessary to Lark that these considerations , though not limited to an electric field seemed absolutely necessary in order thoroughly to investigate the consequences of the assumptions .
With regard to the first two sections of this part of the paper on the modified kinetic energy and the free energy , and on the entropy , there is nothing which is likely to be questioned .
In the third section on frictional forces , conduction of leat and dissipation of energy , I enunciate a principle which opens the way for much criticism .
I would beg any readers , to whom the form of enunciation is repugnant , to suspend their judgment as to the validity of the principle not only until the first justification of it , but until they have seen it in action , as it were , later in the paper .
What was wanted was to bring this group of phenomena , which are undoubtedly closely connected , under the same sort of treatment as is accorded ' to the reversible phenomena of a system by means of its Lagrangian function and the ( dependent ) entropy .
The way being thus paved , in the next principal division of the paper are deduced the general results of the theory , the most important of which are the equations of motion .
These are considerably more general than the ordinary equations of the field , and thus we are led to the last division of the paper , the detailed examination of these results .
The chief sub-divisions of this part are the comparison with Maxwell 's results , a discussion from the point of view of the present theory of thermo-electric , thermo-magnetic , and the Hall effects , and the transference of intrinsic energy through the field .
In comparing with Maxwell 's results , wherever there is agreement it is considered unnecessary to investigate further the detailed consequences .
Where there is disagreement the physical consequences are traced with more detail , and in no case can it , I think , be said that the results of this part of the paper are condemnatory of the present theory .
In this place , too , the bearing of the present theory on the question of convection currents is discussed .
Perhaps a clearer insight into the true bearings of the present theory is obtained by the attempt below to explain thermo-electric , thermo-magnetic , and the Hall effects , than by any other part of the paper .
Especially clearly do some of the restrictions imposed by the condition 4 7rC = Y vH come out .
In the last sub-division it will be found that I disagree entirely with Professor Poynting 's interpretation of his own results , and show how quite a different , and I think simpler , flux of energy may be made to account for the changes of intrinsic energy in different par ts of the field .
In particular , this interpretation would restore credence in what Professor Pointing considers he has shown to be a false view , viz. , that among the aspects of a current of electricity it may be Mr. W. J. Dibdin .
[ Apr. 28 , looked upon as something conveying energy along the conductor This part of the subject , although deduced from the present theory ig shown to be true on Professor Poynting 's own premises .
It is well here to call attention to what might prove confusing otherwise .
In what follows E , e , P , \lt ; I\gt ; , and some allied symbols stand for certain external forces .
But there are three different meanings given in .different parts of the paper to these symbols .
They are originally defined as the whole external forces of the different types .
But in treating of frictional forces , \amp ; c. ( SS 35 to 42 ) , it is convenient to regard them as meaning only those parts of the forces which are due to friction and the like .
Again , from S 50 onwards , it is convenient to regard them as meaning only those parts of the forces which are independent of friction and the like .
This inconvenience is incurred to avoid the greater evil of a large additional array of symbols .
With this exception , * and one or two other trifling ones , which are noticed in their places , nowhere has the meaning of a symbol been changed throughout the paper .
IV .
" Stellar Photometry .
" By W. J. Dibdin , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , \amp ; c. Communicated by A. Vernon Harcourt , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) Hitherto the determinations of stellar luminosity have been made solely with regard to the relative intensity of the stars apart from any reference to a known terrestrial unit .
The various methods which have been employed do not denote actual intensity , and the present inquiry was , therefore , undertaken with the view of elucidating this question , especially with regard to those stars whose colour has presented a difficulty .
As a preliminary , the author prepared a standard series of artificial stars of various colours and known intensity , in terms of the English standard candle .
These range in value from one candle to 0 000018 candle , and when placed at a distance from the telescope form a standard series for comparison .
The evaluation of the coloured lights was made by means of the author s modified " star " disc , by the use of which comparisons of various coloured lights can be readily obtained .
* Since completing the paper I have discovered a notable exception , which is not otherwise noticed than in this foot-note .
It does not seem likely to lead to confu " sion ; therefore I retain it .
Most frequently in the present paper ( [ stands for the typical scalar coordinate of a dynamical system , but it is not infrequently used , as in the former paper , for the quaternion of the rotation-operator q( )q~l\gt ; r L# W W ft , \ r r p I# \lt ; 0 it ' ip\#174 ; k\ ilei ida tw \#171 ; l

