1750 On Inductive Magnetism in Soft Iron .
HI .
" Effects of Stress on Inductive Magnetism in Soft Iron .
" ( Preliminary Notice .
) By Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1875 .
1 .
At the last ordinary meeting of the Royal Society ( May 27 ) , after fully scribing experiments by which I had found certain remarkable effects stress on inductive and retained magnetism in steel and soft iron , I iefly referred to seeming anomalies presented by soft iron which had uch perplexed me since the 23rd of December .
Differences presented r the different specimens of soft-iron wire which I tried complicated the lestion very much ; but one of them , the softest of all , a wire specially ade by Messrs. Richard Johnson and Nephew , of Manchester , for this vestigation , through the kindness of Mr. William H. Johnson , gave a suit standing clearly out from the general confusion , and pointing the ay to further experiments , by which , within the fortnight which has tervened since my former communication , I have arrived at a complete cplanation of all that had formerly seemed anomalous .
These experi-ents have been performed in the Physical Laboratory of the University f Glasgow by Mr. Andrew Gray and Mr. Thomas Gray , according to istructions which , in my absence , I have sent them from day to day by )st and telegraph .
2 .
The guiding result ( described near the end of my former paper , and sferred to in the last paragraph but one of the Abstract in Proceedings f the Royal Society for May 27 ) was , that the softest wire , tried with eights on and off repeatedly , after it had been magnetized in either irection by making the current , in the positive or negative direction , and opping it , gave effects on the ballistic galvanometer which proved a uking out of residual magnetism by the first two or three ons and offs , ad a gradual settlement into a condition in which the effect of " on " was a augmentation , and the effect of " off " a diminution , of the inductive lagnetization due to the vertical component of the earth 's magnetizing 3rce .
When a fresh piece of the same wire was put into the apparatus ad tested with weights on and off it gave this same effect .
If the wire had even turned upper end down and tried again in the course of any of the xperiments , still this same effect would have been shown .
It seemed erfectly clear that in these experiments there was no other efficient ipolar quality of the apparatus by which the positive throw of the bal-istic galvanometer could be given by putting on the weight , and the tegative throw by taking it off , than the vertical component of the earth s magnetic force .
\gt ; 3 .
Yet I did not consider that I had explained the result by the ter-estrial influence , because , for all the specimens of steel and soft iron , the 'Sect of weights on had been uniformly to , and of weights off o| augment the magnetism when the magnetizing current was kept lowing .
And I was , moreover , perplexed by the magnitude of the Prof. Sir W. Thomson on the Effects of [ JuneiQt result\#151 ; the effect of weights on and off shown by the very soft iron ve under only the feeble magnetizing influence of the earth , being mayc times ( from three times to nine or ten times ) as great as the effects whr the same weights on and off produced in the same wires when unetK vastly greater magnetizing forces of the currents through the helix .
4 .
But by reducing the strength of the magnetizing current graduayr it was clear that the small positive effect of the " on " with the positaj ; current flowing and the small negative effect with the negative curnt* must be gradually brought to approximate more and more nearly to ie large positive effect of the " on " when there is no current at all .
Imi , -diately after my former communication I therefore arranged to ho experiments made with different measured strengths of current , feet r and feebler , until the law of the continuity thus pointed out should e ascertained ; and so speedily arrived at the following astonishing cone-*- : sions :\#151 ; 5 .
( 1 ) When the magnetizing force does not exceed a certain crititr value the alternate effects of pull and relaxation are respectively to ai .
ment and diminish the induced magnetization . .
( 2 ) When the magnetizing force exceeds the critical value tai effects are\#151 ; pull diminishes , relaxation augments , the induced maguey zation .
( 3 ) The critical value of the magnetizing force for the annealr Johnson soft-iron wire , with 14 lbs. on and off , is about 17 or 18 , if ( hi a moment ) we take as unity the vertical component of the terrestrial ms* !
netic force at Glasgow .
( 4 ) The maximum positive effect of the pull on the inductive ma t netism is obtained when the magnetizing force is about 4 .
( 5 ) The positive effect of the pull when the magnetizing force is e is about eight or nine times the amount of the negative effect when ti f magnetizing force is 25 .
6 .
The actual results of the experiments which proved these conclu sions are exhibited graphically in the accompanying diagram .
The ho* zontal scale ( abscissas ) shows the numbers of divisions of the scale of ti 1 steady-current galvanometer ( called for brevity the " battery-gal van i ' meter " ) used to measure the strengths of the current through the heli u The scale of ordinates shows the numbers of divisions of the scale of tl | ballistic galvanometer by which the sudden changes of the magnetism \lt ; a the wire produced by 14 lbs. " on " and 14 lbs. " off " were measured The ordinates are drawn in the positive direction when the effect of " on \gt ; is to increase and of " off " to diminish the magnetism .
The simple round spots show the results of observations with currents in the dire\lt ; \#171 ; tion called negative ( being those which gave negative deflections of tb battery-galvanometer ) .
The spots in the centre of signs ( + ) show result obtained with currents in the direction called positive .
The star ( * ) 8 the position 64 on the line of ordinates through the zero of abscissaPresents .
[ May V experiments made to-day for the purpose of finding accurately the amoit of the negative current which , by neutralizing the vertical force of % earth or the wire , gives an accurate zero effect for the " off " and " of The dotted prolongation of the curve through the plus 's , to cut the li ?
of abscissas on its negative side , is ideal , and is inserted to illustrate ft relation of this curve to the other .
By the two curves cutting the lb of abscissas at +8 and \#151 ; 8 , we see that 8 is the strength of the cur , measured on the scale of the battery-galvanometer , which gives a magnet force in the axis of the helix equal to the vertical component of the t\lt ; -restrial magnetic force .
7 .
Next a series of experiments to test the inductive effects ; repeatedly making the current always in one direction , and stopping , with the weight of 14 lbs. always on , and again with the weight off , a ; this with various degrees of current , feebler than those used in the earl ' experiments .
The results with all the different intensities of magnetizi force thus applied were the same in kind as that which I found on ft 23rd of December , operating with a much stronger magnetizing force the first soft-iron wire tried ; that is to say ( contrarily to what I had fou : in the steel wires ) , the change of magnetization produced by repeated cations and annullings of the magnetizing force of the helix was greater w\ the weight off than on .
[ Note on Diagram , added July 2,1875.\#151 ; A continuation of the expei ments with higher and higher magnetizing powers , since the communic tion of this paper , disproves the negative minimum indicated by t curves on the diagram , and proves an asymptotic approach to a val approximately \#151 ; 12 , of ordinates , for infinitely great positive values the abscissas .
] Presents received , May 13 , 1875. .
Transactions .
Christiania:\#151 ; Kgl .
Norske TTniversitet .
Om Skuringsmserker , glacie formationen , terrasser og strandlinier samt om grundfjeldets \lt ; sparagmitfjeldets msegtighed i Norge , af T. Kjerulf .
2 .
4to .
187 Jsettegryder og gamle strandlinier i fast klippe , af S. A. Sex .
4t-1874 .
Norges Mora , af M. N. Blytt .
3 parts .
8vo .
1861-7 Enumeratio Insectorum Norvegicorum , auctore H. Siebke .
fasc , 8vo .
1874 .
Die agyptischen Denkmaler in St. Petersburg , He singfors , Upsala , und Copenhagen , von J. Lieblein .
8vo .
187 G-rundtraekkene i den ( Eldste Norske- Process , af Ebb Hertzberi 8vo .
1874 .
Postola Sogur , udgivne C ; 3J .
Unger .
8vo .
187-0$5a Testamenta .
8vo .
1874 .
Oanedubme Dr. Erik Pontopidda Cilgitusast samas jorgali J. A. Eriis .
8vo .
1873 .
Eorhandlingf i Videnskabs-Selskabet in Christiania .
Aar 1873 .
Hefte 2 .
8v\lt ;

