222 Drs. D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo .
[ Jan. 24 , January 24,1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Observations on the Influence of certain Culture Fluids 1 and Medicinal Reagents in the Growth and Development of the Bacillus tuberculosis " By C. THEODORE WILLIAMS , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physician to the Hospital for Con- I sumption , Brompton .
Communicated by Sir Joseph Fayrer , K.C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1883 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" The Effects of Lesions of Different Regions of the Cerebral Hemispheres .
" By David Ferrier , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Gerald F. Yeo , M.D. , F.R.C.S. Received January 19 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains a detailed account of a seines of observations on the effects of localised lesions of the brain of monkeys , made partly by Drs. Ferrier and Yeo , and partly by Dr. Ferrier alone .
The operations were performed under anaesthetics , and according to the rules and methods of antiseptic surgery .
The experiments are illustrated by photographs , showing the position and extent of the lesions and general condition of the brains , together with sun-prints and microphotographs of sections of the brain and spinal cord , showing the structures primarily involved or secondarily degenerated .
As the paper is mainly an anatomical description of the lesions delineated and record of the effects produced , it scarcely admits of condensation in the form of an abstract .
The lesions are classified according to their position in the occipito-angular , temporal , Rolandic , frontal , and hippocampal regions respectively .
884 .
] The Effects of Lesions of the Cerebral Hemispheres .
223 Among1 the more important results arrived at are the following:\#151 ; Lesions of the occipito-angular region ( occipital lobes and angular wri ) cause affections of vision , without affection of the other sensory acuities or motor powers .
) The only lesion which causes complete and permanent loss of vision Lboth eyes is total destruction of the occipital lobes and angular fjri on both sides .
I Complete extirpation of both angular gyri causes for a time total blindness , succeeded by lasting visual defect in both eyes .
Unilateral destruction of the cortex of the angular gyrus causes cmporary abolition or impairment of vision in the opposite eye\#151 ; not of a hemiopic character .
Deep incisions may be made in both occipital lobes at the same time , or the greater portion of one or both occipital lobes at the same time may be removed without any appreciable impairment of vision .
Destruction of the occipital lobe and angular gyrus on one side causes temporary amblyopia of the opposite eye and homonymous hemianopia of both eyes , towards the side opposite the lesion .
As in none of the cases recorded , either of partial unilateral or bilateral destruction of the occipito-angular region , were the amblyopic or hemianopic symptoms permanent , it is concluded that vision is possible with both eyes if only portions of the visual centres remain intact on both sides .
Destruction of the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution on both sides causes complete and permanent loss of hearing , without other sensory or motor defect .
Hearing is not impaired by lesions of any other part of the temporal lobe .
Destructive lesions of the Rolandic zone ( convolutions bounding the fissure of Rolando ) cause motor paralysis , without loss of sensation , limited ( monoplegia ) or general ( hemiplegia ) , according to the position and extent of the lesion .
Lesions of this region are followed by descending degeneration of the pyramidal tracts of the spinal cord .
Lesions of the frontal region vary according as they affect the postfrontal ( base of the frontal convolutions ) or pre-frontal ( anterior two-thirds of the frontal convolutions ) region .
Lesions of the pre-frontal regions alone do not produce any discoverable physiological symptoms .
Lesions of the post-frontal regions cause temporary paralysis of the lateral movements of the head and eyes .
As the symptoms are only temporary so long as any portions of the frontal lobes remain intact , it is concluded that the post-frontal and pre-frontal regions have essentially the same physiological signification , and that portions only of the frontal lobes are sufficient for the exercise of their functions .
224 Effects of Lesions of the Cerebral Hemispheres .
[ Jan. 24 Lesions of the frontal lobes are followed by descending degeneratioi of the mesially situated tracts of the foot of the crus cerebri and cor responding fibres of the internal capsule , as seen in transverse section* .
The ultimate destination of these tracts is uncertain .
They canno be traced in the anterior pyramids .
Lesions entirely destroying the hippocampal region ( the hippo campus major and gyrus hippocampi ) and neighbouring inferioj temporosphenoidal region ( without implication of the crus cerebri , basal ganglia , or internal capsule ) cause complete anaesthesia\#151 ; cutaneous , mucous , muscular\#151 ; of the opposite side of the body , without motor paralysis .
The degree of impairment of tactile sensibility in those cases where it is not entirely abolished , is in proportion to the amount of destruction of the hippocampal region .
Lesions of the cornu ammonis alone , or gyrus hippocampi alone , do not cause permanent impairment of tactile sensibility .
Tbo duration of the effects of total destruction of the hippocampal region has not been determined .
No impairment of tactile sensibility has been observed in connexion with any of the other cerebral lesions described .

