V. " Notes of Researches on the Polyammonias , No. XXIII .
Hydrazobenzol , a new Compound isomeric with Benzidine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received May 7 , 1863 .
The discovery , among the secondary products of the manufacture of aniline , ofxenylamine , the probable connexion of which with benzidine ( xenylene-diamine ) I have already had an opportunity of pointing out* , has induced me to submit the latter compound to some experiments .
In preparing benzidine by the process originally pointed out by Zinint , viz. by treatment of azobenzol with sulphide of ammonium , I was led to the observation of some phenomena which appear to have escaped the attention of those who have hitherto studied this substance .
It is generally supposed that the action of reducing agents upon azobenzol produces directly benzidine .
C12 Hlo 2+ I2- , = C1 H12 N2 .
Y Azobenzol .
Benzidine .
Such , however , is not the case .
The well-defined base designated by the latter name is only a secondary product ; the first compound which is generated in this process being a neutral or feebly basic body , differing in all its properties from benzidine , with which , however , it is isomeric , and into which it may be converted by simple treatment with strong mineral acids .
On passing a current of sulphuretted hydrogen into a solution of azobenzol in alcoholic ammonia , the yellowish-red liquid is rapidly decolorized , and yields on addition of water a crystalline precipitate of a peculiar camphor-like smell .
This substance contains a minute quantity of the sulphur which separates , the bulk of which , however , remains dissolved as polysulphide of ammonium ; it is easily purified by two or three crystallizations from very dilute alcohol .
Submitted to combustion , the compound thus obtained yields numbers which coincide with those furnished by the analysis of benzidine .
The properties in which the new substance , for which I propose the name hydrazobenzol , differs from benzidine are the following : Hydrazobenzol crystallizes from alcohol , and more especially from benzol ( in which it is somewhat less soluble ) , in well-developed white plates , benzidine being always deposited from these solvents in welldefined needles ; and whilst the latter is freely soluble in boiling water , from which it separates on cooling in the form of a crystalline mass of nacreous lustre , the former is so sparingly soluble in water that it is impossible to recrystallize it from that solvent .
The fusingpoint of hydrazobenzol is 131 ?
C. , that of benzidine being 1180 C. The basic properties of benzidine are well defined ; it dissolves even in the weakest acids , such as acetic acid , in which hydrazobenzol is nearly insoluble .
Stronger acids , such as hydrochloric and sulphuric acids , more especially on application of heat , dissolve hydrazobenzol ; but the solution thus obtained contains no longer the unchanged body ; the addition of alkali , fixed or volatile , produces a precipitate which now possesses all the properties of benzidine .
These characters are sufficient to individualize hydrazobenzol .
There is , however , another property which marks its difference from benzidine in even a more conspicuous manner .
Benzidine when submitted to a high temperature distils ; a certain portion is decomposed in this process , but the larger quantity is volatilized without decomposition .
On heating hydrazobenzol considerably above its fusingpoint , a powerful reaction ensues , the heat evolved being sufficient to carry over nearly the whole amount of substance in the form of a deep red oil , from which , on cooling , crystals of azobenzol are deposited .
On addition of an acid the oil yields a further quantity of this substance , and the acid solution is then found to contain abundance of aniline .
The reaction which occurs is simple enough .
2C12 12 N2 = C12 Hlo N2 + 2C6 H7 N. Hydrazobenzol .
Azobenzol .
Aniline .
I had hoped that among the products of the reaction paraniline ( C12 H1S 4N=2 C H7 N ) might be met with ; in this hope I have been disappointed .
The reproduction of azobenzol from hydrazobenzol may be accomplished in a variety of other ways .
Nitrous acid , chlorine , bromine , iodine , chromate and permanganate of potassium , and nitrate of silver produce this effect in a most easy manner ; in these processes the loosely adherent hydrogen is simply eliminated , no aniline being formed as a secondary product .
Even when moistened with alcohol and exposed to the action of the atmosphere , hydrazobenzol is gradually reconverted into azobenzol .
It deserves to be noticed that some of the chemists who have been engaged in the examination of benzidine must have occasionally worked with hydrazobenzol .
Mr. Noble* , who many years ago prepared benzidine in my laboratory , especially remarks that the substance obtained by him is reconverted into azobenzol by the action of nitrous acid .
I have satisfied myself that benzidine thus treated yields no trace of azobenzol .
From the experiments described , it is obvious that in the formation of benzidine from azobenzol two distinct phases have to be distinguished : in the first phase the molecule of azobenzol assimilates a molecule of hydrogen , but this hydrogen remains in a very feeble state of combination , being eliminated again by a great variety of agents .
It is only under the influence of acids that the hydrogen molecule becomes incorporated in the system , if I may use this expression , and fixed benzidine , a substance of great stability , is formed .
Whatever view may be taken regarding the nature of azobenzol , the constitution of which it must be admitted is utterly unknown , the intermediate substance has to be viewed as its hydrogen compound , and it is this consideration which induced me to propose the name hydrazobenzol .

