III .
" On the Thermo-electricity of Ferruginous Metals , and on the Thermal Effects of stretching Solid Bodies .
" By J. P. JOULE , F.R.S. Received January 29 , 1857 .
The experiments on the above subjects were made with a thermomultiplier placed in the vacuum of an air-pump .
Its sensibility was such that with the junction antimony and bismuth , a thermometric effect not greater than -oo of a degree Centigrade could be estimated .
In determining the thermo-electric position of the metals , it was necessary to increase the resistance of the instrument a hundredfold , by placing in the circuit a coil of fine wireo In thermo-electric arrangement steel was found to be nearer copper than iron was .
By hardening , steel was raised almost to the place of copper .
Cast iron was found to surpass copper ; so that the junction cast iron and copper is reverse to that of wrought iron and copper , and the arrangement cast iron and wrought iron is much more powerful than copper and wrought iron .
A new test of the quality and purity of ferruginous metals is thus indicated , which will probably be found of value to the arts .
The experiments on the stretching of solids showed , in the case of the metals , a decrease of temperature when the stretching weight was applied , and a heating effect when the weight was removed .
An iron wire v of an inch in diameter was cooled of a degree Centigrade when stretched by a weight of 775 lbs. Similar results were obtained with cast iron , hard steel , copper , and lead .
The thermal effects were in all these cases found to be almost identical with those deduced from Professor Thomson 's theoretical investigation , the part ticular formula applicable to the case in question being H-= x Pe , where H is the heat absorbed in a wire one foot long , t the absolute temperature , J the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit , P the weight applied , and e the coefficient of expansion per 1 ? .
With gutta-percha also a cooling effect on extension was observed ; but a reverse action was discovered in the case of vulcanized indiarubber , which became heated when the weight is laid on , and cooled when the weight was removed .
On learning this curious result , Professor Thomson , who had already intimated the probability of a reverse action being observed under certain circumstances with india-rubber , suggested to the author experiments to ascertain whether vulcanized india-rubber stretched by a weight is shortened by increase of temperature .
Accordingly , on trial , it was found that this material , when stretched by a weight capable of doubling its length , has that length diminished by one-tenth when its temperature is raised 50 ?
Centigrade .
This shortening effect was found to increase rapidly with the stretching weight employed ; and , exactly according with the heating effects observed with different stretching weights , entirely to confirm the theory of Professor Thomson .

