An Account of some Experiments relative to the Passage of radiant Heat through glass Screens .
By the Rev. Baden Powell , M , A. F.R.S. of Oriel College , Oxford .
Communicated March 9 , 1826 .
Read June 1 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 372 .
] The object of this paper is to examine the correctness and the consequences of a conclusion of De la Roche , that if radiant heat be intercepted by two transparent screens , the additional diminution of effect occasioned by the second is proportionally much less than that produced by the first , and so for any number of screens .
This M. De la Roche explains by supposing the heat passing through the first screens to acquire thereby a kind of polarization , which enables it to pass the rest more easily .
The author , however , observes , that when the temperature of the source of heat is above incandescence , the fact admits of more simple explanation , by regarding the heat as consisting of two portions , the one incapable of penetrating glass , and therefore wholly stopped by the first screen ; the other capable of so doing , and therefore readily transmitted through any number of screens .
If , however , he observes , the same effect is produced at temperatures below luminosity , this explanation fails ; and either De la Roche 's idea of polarization , or some other , must be resorted to ; and it is to the examination of this case that the experiments detailed in his paper are devoted .
His apparatus consisted of two tin reflectors , opposed to each other , and having in the focus of one a blackened thermometer , and in that of the other an iron ball heated to redness , and cooled till it ceased to be visible in the dark .
The indications of the thermometer were observed ; first , for the direct effect ; secondly , with one glass screen interposed ; thirdly , with two ; -sometimes a mercurial , sometimes an air thermometer was used .
The indications were noted after each half minute of exposure , till the thermometer ceased to rise .
The temperatures acquired by the screens were also noted .
The conclusions drawn by the author from a great number of such experiments are , First , That the fact observed by M. De la Roche is verified when the source of heat is below luminosity , as well as above it .
For in all the trials a rise was observed to take place in the focal thermometer , rmuch smaller with one than with no screen , and very small indeed with two .
The diminution , however , occasioned by the second screen was proportionally much less than that occasioned by the first .
On analysing more minutely , however , the progress of the rise of the temperature from half minute to half minute , and comparing it , in the cases where screens were used , with the observed progressive increase of temperature of the screens themselves , Mr. Powell is led to conclude that the rise of the focal thermometer , where screens are used , is not attributable to any new property acquired by the heat in its passage through the first screen , when two are used , or to any direct radiation through the glass where one only is employed , but is simply the effect of secondary radiation from the heated screens ; and that this cause must have operated extensively , is evident from the circumstance , that the reflectors were placed in some of the experiments at 15 inches from each other , in others only at 12 .
In the latter case , the first screen was found to have acquired in some cases as much as 230 ( centigrade ) of temperature above that of the ambient air , its distance from the heated ball being 2 inches .
The author next proceeds to examine the interception of heat by glass of extreme thinness ; in which case , according to Mr. Ritchie 's experiments , heat from non-luminous sources appears capable of radiating through that medium when transparent , but not when rendered opake .
His experiments were made with fragments of a large glass bulb blown to extreme tenuity , and either left transparent or blackened with soot ; but their results proved unfavourable to Mr. Ritchie 's conclusion , no difference having been observed between the effects of thin and thick glass sufficient to warrant any difference in their mode of transmission .

