On the Structure and Functions of the Hairs of the Crustacea .
By CAMPBELL DE MoRGAN , Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital .
Communicated by GEORGE Busx , Esq. Received March 13 , -Read April 29 , 1858 .
THE observations of M. LAVALLE * on the structure of the hairs attached to the shell of the decapodous Crustacea , have shown that these organs are not mere appendages to the shell , as was formerly supposed ( see SIEBOLD jl , but that they are sometimes connected with canals which penetrate its whole thickness , in such a manner that there seems to be a continuity of the material which fills the hair with that which exists in the corresponding canal .
The hairs are traversed by a canal ; at their base they expand into a bulb , which is received into a cup-shaped cavity in the outer pigmentary layer of the shell , and which is limited to that part , never being prolonged into the inner layers of the shell .
This cup-shaped cavity is the termination of a canal which traverses the entire thickness of the shell , and is here expanded so as to enclose the bulb .
The canal of the hair is enlarged at the situation of the bulb .
It is then constricted , but it opens below into its receiving cavity , and is continuous with the canal of the shell .
M. HOLLARD$ , who has investigated the structures of the hairs in many of the articulated classes , finds that there exists in them the same general character of being hollow organs connected with canals channeled out in the hard tegumentary coverings of the body .
Of the hairs of the Crustacea , especially , he says that the canals of the shell which correspond to the hairs are occupied by membranous investments , which embrace the base of the hairs , and constitute follicular sacs , terminating inferiorly in a conical extremity ; and that they seem to receive through it a nutrient system , of which the debris are easily recognized in most preparations .
The general conclusions at which he arrives with regard to insects indicate , though vaguely , that these organs may be , amongst other functions , connected with general sensation An In some recent observations by Dr. ERNST HACKEL X , attention has been directed to the tissues immediately below the shell .
MILNE-EDWARDS had already described this tissue as consisting of three layers , -an outer , thin and firm , but non-vascular ; an inner , resembling the serous membrane of the higher animals , and investing especially the viscera ; and a middle , soft , spongy , and very vascular layer , which he regards as a chorium or dermis .
The tissue had also been fully described by C. SCHMIDT and others .
Dr. HiCKEL is , however , the first who has published , so far as the author can ascertain , an account of the connexion of the internal tissue with the hairs .
He considers the external layer of the tissue which lies below the shell as a chitinogenous layer , composed of epithelial cells , which he calls chitinogenous cells ; and he regards the office of this layer , as implied by the name which he has given to it , to be the formation of the shell , which is , according to him , a hardened secretion of the cells , laid down in layers like a cuticle .
The soft tissue which lies below the chitinogenous layer , he describes as consisting of more or less firm homogeneous connective tissue , which supports the vessels and nerves .
Now it is the chitinogenous layer alone which he describes and figures as entering the large pore-canals of the shell , and continuing on to invest the hair-cavity ; and he does not appear to recognize any connexion between the shell and hair-canals , and the soft vascular and nervous layer below the cuticle or chitinogenous membrane .
The object of this paper is to determine the true connexion of the hairs and bristles , and hence to indicate their probable use .
Differences have been noticed in the arrangement and form of the hairs in the animals which have been examined , but the general mode of their connexion with the shell , and with the parts internal to it , is so much the same in all as not to require or even to admit of special description .
Whether the shell is to be regarded as the homologue of the epidermis of the higher animals , is not here a matter of any consequence .
In its perfect and hardened state , the tissue of which it is composed is too compact and dense to justify the belief that it is vascular or sensitive .
But the tissue below it , which is freely supplied with nerves , may fairly be regarded as the homologue of the chorium of the higher animals , and like it , as endowed with more or less sensibility ; this must apply , however , only to the vascular , soft , connective tissue , not to the chitinogenous membrane , which is clearly epidermic .
Now the following observations will , it is believed , prove that while the hairs and their corresponding shell canals are lined by the outer chitinogenous membrane , their most important connexion is with the sensitive pulp which lies below it .
The best situations for showing this are some of those parts in which the shell is thin , as , for example , in the antennae or in the foot-jaws of the larger Crustacea ( Plate LXXI .
fig. 1). .
If a section des trachees , ou des filets nerveux peut-etre , chez les especes h systeme vasculaire , des canaux nourriciers .
Nous voila done bien loin des poils epidermniques de la plant , et bien pres des poils bulboides des mammiferes et des plumes des oiseaux , y comprise les modifications de form , de structure , d'organisation qui se rapportent h la difference des seJours , et des fonctious plus ou moins relatives a la protection , a la statique , peut-etre meme , 'a la sensation generale .
" * Yber die Gewebe des Flusskrebses .
M1ULLER 's Archiv , 1857 , p. 469 .
be made in such a part in the plane of the hairs , the canals leading to them will be often found to be nearly as large as the base of the hairs to which the canals correspond .
They are lined by a thick , transparent , chitinous membrane , within which may be seen the outer layer of the internal integument .
The chitinous lining , after investing the cup-shaped cavity which receives the hair , becomes so firmly connected with the bulb of the hair itself , that on tearing out the hair , which cannot be done without force , the sheath will often be dragged out with it .
The cells and other elements of the spongy middle layer of the internal integument fill up the canal , and pass on through the opening at the root of the hair into the haircanals .
In every part in which the hairs have been examined , their connexion with the vascular internal membrane has been observed .
But where the shell is very thick , as in the claw of the Lobster , some manipulation is necessary to its clear demonstration .
If fine sections be made of a claw which has been softened in dilute nitric acid , the canals of the shell will be seen to terminate in cup-shaped cavities , which receive the hair-bulbs and are continuous with the hair-tubes .
The shell canals are comparatively fine , more resembling coarse dentinal tubes ; but they are lined by a sheath , and have contents prolonged from the vascular layer .
If the plan be adopted by which Mr. TOMES demonstrated the presence of the dentinal fibres* , viz. tearing the section across the direction of the canals , their sheaths will be dragged out in the form of tubes , from which the contents have sometimes escaped , so that only air is contained in them , though generally their contents may be still seen in them ( fig. 2 a ) .
The relations of the contents of the tubes to the internal integument may be shown by tearing away the latter from the shell , when the contents will often be drawn out of the canals ; and it may be seen that they are prolongations of the outer layer of the integument , enclosing the elements of the vascular layer within their tubular cavities ( fig. 2 c ) .
The uniform and intimate connexion of the hairs with the living structures within the shell indicates that they are not mere appendages to it , like the tubercles , but that they have some function distinct from it , and associated rather with the deeper-seated nervous and vascular structures .
The most natural conclusion appears to be , that , like the whiskers of the Seal or of the feline Carnivora , and indeed like the hairs of the Mammalia generally , they are a means of transmitting sensation from without to the sensitive parts within .
It is generally assumed that the greater part of the body of crustaceans is destitute of sensibility , though the antenna and oral appendages have been known to possess it to a great extent .
It is not easy to conceive , however , that the dense calcareous coverings of these parts could be the medium of communicating any delicate impressions , such as are evidently conveyed by the antennae .
There is no difficulty in understanding this , on the supposition that the hairs which surround each joint of the antenna , and each border of the oral appendages , are in direct relation with a sensitive pulp within , and that the impressions made upon their base would be at once communicated to this pulp .
While no doubt the hairs have other and mechanical offices to fulfil , it would be difficult to suggest any use besides that of ministering to sensation which could demand their close and direct union with the living nervous and vascular membrane .
This view derives great support from the fact of the existence of a structure within the claw of the larger crustaceans , which , so far as the author can learn , has not hitherto been described .
It is generally stated that the claw is entirely filled with the muscular apparatus belonging to it , but this is by no means the case .
Neither the moveable piece or index , nor the part of the tarsus which it opposes , the pollex , contain any muscular tissue .
The flexor and extensor of the index , terminate at the level of the joint of the pincer , where the tendon is inserted , and all below this level is filled with a spongy mass similar in structure to that of the internal integument .
Into this mass the nerves of the limb principally pass .
The muscles are supplied almost entirely by a small branch , while the principal nerve divides at about the level of the penultimate joint into two trunks , which pass down one towards each limb of the claw , and then break up into their terminal branches , which are distributed to the spongy tissue of the claw .
The bristles of the claw in the Lobster are placed in regular series of short tufts along the sharp margin of the index , protected by the fine tubercles which stud this edge , and beyond which they do not project .
On the broad , heavily tuberculated border of the larger claw , the bristles are often entirely absent ; but the communication between this margin and the pulp within , is maintained by means of a line of numerous canals situated principally at the sides of the tubercles , never on them , which reach to the surface , and there terminate in bulbous extremities , which contain the same matter as that found in the cavities for the hairs ( fig. 2 b ) .
These bulbous extremities of the canals , which have much the appearance of imperfectly developed hairs , sometimes project a little beyond the level of the external surface of the shell , sometimes lie below and are lodged in depressions in it .
In the Crab 's claw , where the tubercles are deficient , and the limbs of the pincers comparatively small , the tufts of bristles give place almost entirely to these hairless pulp-cavities .
The structures within are the same as in the Lobster , but on a much less developed scale .
Here , then , lodged within the densest part of the shell , is a structure richly supplied with nerves , shut off from other parts of the body , and having communication with the surface only through the medium of canals , which are sometimes continued into bristles , and sometimes terminate in mere bulbs .
As a prehensile organ , the claw probably needs sensibility ; but no force which the animal could exercise could make any impression on the parts within , through its dense tuberculated edges .
On the other hand , it is difficult to assign any office to the bristles , and still more to the bulbs , mechanical or otherwise , except that which has been here suggested , -that , establishing , as they do , a communication between the external surface and the contained nervous structure , they communicate impressions to it , and are in fact tactile organs .
If this supposition be correct , the chitinogenous layer of M. IXCX1EL could not be the only medium of communication between the hairs and the internal parts .
The author had satisfied himself before the appearance of M. HAcKEL'S paper on the subject , that the inner vascular and nervous pulp sent prolongations into the hairs , and he had too , even in the Lobster , seen indications of arrangement of the pulp which conveyed to him the impression that it was formed with reference to the hairs , rather than that the hairs were mere appendages to it .
He was anxious naturally to ascertain in how far this view was correct .
In the larger Crustacea , however , the pulp is for the most part too thick and opaque to admit of examination in its entire state , and too soft to admit of section without destruction to its characters .
But in some of the smaller ones , as , for example , in the Shrimp , the mode of arrangement of the inner soft layers can , with a little precaution , be readily seen .
In examining the tissues in these animals , a confirmation of the views already advanced in this paper will be found in the presence of an arrangement of structure so remarkable as to require special description .
The flabellum on which the eye appears to rest , is perhaps the situation in which this arrangement can be most easily demonstrated .
If the shell be carefully stripped away from the contained pulp , the chitinous investment of the hairs will be removed with it , while their contents will be drawn out from their canals and will remain in connexion with the pulp .
It will be seen , on examining the pulp , that it is composed of an extremely delicate chitinous lamina , which supports the fibrous and cellular structure of the chorium , and which is connected with the tubes to be presently described .
'Through the centre from behind forwards , the chorium forms a more dense mass ( fig. 3 a ) , in which lie the nerves and principal vessels .
The outer side is continued forwards in a small cone-shaped process ( 1 ) , which corresponds to a similar process of the shell , and may be traced for some distance towards the base of the organ .
At the inner and anterior part , lies a series of tubes which radiate forwards from the denser central mass .
These tubes appear to be composed of firm chitinous sheaths , covered externally by the epidermic or chitinogenous layer of HXCKEL .
At their outer ends they are somewhat contracted ( fig. 4 ) ; at their inner end , towards the anterior part of the organ , they appear to merge into the general cellular mass of the chorium ; but more towards its base they are truncated , and their terminations are clearly defined ( fig. 3 d ) .
Projecting from their outer ends are seen fibres , which correspond to , and have been drawn from , the hairs ( fig. 3 c ) .
These fibres can be traced through the whole length of the tubes ; but towards the inner truncated end of the tubes they are usually lost in the cellular mass of the chorium , though sometimes they appear as projecting fibres when the tubes are torn away from the parts with which they were connected .
The fibres in the fiabellum seem to consist of an outer pellucid tubular coat , with contents of a more opaque character ( fig. 4 ) .
At their outer free ends , which project from the tubes , the fibres assume various characters , in accordance with the form of the hairs to which they belong .
Sometimes they are split into two or three branches , sometimes they present serrated margins , and at times they have a plumose character , from the presence of secondary fibres which correspond with the plumules of the hairs .
Hence it is evident , that although in the examination of the hairs none of the contents can be seen entering the secondary processes , yet that in reality they do -receive continuations from the internal structures of the hairs .
The tubular , fibre-containing structure may be found readily in some of the smaller maxillary appendages .
In the terminal joint of the larger maxillary foot of the Shrimp , in which the hairs form a sort of brush all around it , the tubes may be seen clustered together , their openings arranged in rows corresponding to the rows of hairs , as seen in figs. 5 and 6 .
But it is not only in parts which are usually recognized as ministering to sensation that this structure is found .
The same may be seen wherever the hairs are abundant , as , for example , in the ambulatory organs and in the claw .
In order to show this distinctly , it is necessary , after removing the shell , to pick away the muscles from within the chorium , and then the tubes and their contained fibres will be at once seen .
In describing the connexion of the hairs with the chorium in the Lobster and larger Crustacea , and the existence of the mass of pulp largely supplied with nerves which is contained in the terminal joints of the claw , it was assumed that there was an association between the nerves and the hairs .
In these larger animals , however , the author could not trace in a satisfactory manner such a connexion , though he often saw bundles and fibres , which he believed to be nerve tissue passing towards the hair-tubes .
In the claw of the Shrimp , however , the nerves can be traced so directly into the immediate neighbourhood of the hair-fibres , as to leave no room for doubt as to their relation to them .
The general structure is the same as in the Lobster , but there are some peculiarities which deserve special mention .
The pollex and index do not meet so as to resemble pincers , but the sharp scythe-shaped pollex ( fig. 7 a ) folds down upon the margin of the metatarsus , and merely touches with its extremity a small process which projects on the opposite side of the metatarsus ( b ) , and which may be considered as an index .
The extremity of the metatarsus to which the pollex is applied , presents a thin central lamina ( c ) , on each side of which , and protected as it were by it , is a row of very delicate hairs .
If the chorium be carefully dragged away from the shell , and the muscles drawn out from it , the hair-fibres will be found passing into a tubular structure much like that before described , while their free extremities rest on a very delicate lamina , which is probably the chitinogenous membrane of the corresponding lamina of the shell before noticed , and which invests it on both sides .
Running into the deep layer of the chorium in which the hair-fibres are imbedded , is seen a large nerve branch ( d ) , which spreads out when it reaches this structure .
The ultimate distribution of the nerve can as yet be only surmised , but as the structure connected with the fibres is the only one in this situation , there can be no doubt that the nerve is directly associated with them .
The position of the hairs on each side of a lamina to which the pollex is opposed , is precisely analogous to that of the hairs in the claw of the Lobster , where they are placed , not upon , but to the sides of the tubercles , and are thus protected from the direct force of the opposing claws .
The author has been unwilling to multiply examples , and he conceives that enough has been brought forward to prove that the hairs of the Crustacea are in intimate rela-tion with the deep layer of the inner integument in which the nerves terminate , and not with the epidermic or chitinogenous layer only ; that the structure of 'this integument is in many instances arranged entirely with reference to its connexion with the hairs ; that the hairs cannot therefore be regarded as prolongations of the shell , but as prolongations of the chorium protected by a special chitinous investment ; and finally , that although many other offices are performed by them , yet that their relation to the chorium justifies the conclusion that they correspond to the papillk of the skin in the higher animals , and that they are organs of general or special sensibility .
APPENDIX .
Since this paper was communicated to the Society , the author'has found in parts of the Prawn a more direct confirmation of his views as to the connexion of the nerves with the hairs than he had previously seen .
In the flabella of the tail of the smaller Prawns the shell is so thin , and so nearly homogeneous in structure , that the soft textures within can be seen perfectly through it .
The chorium presents an appearance of tubular structure radiating towards the hairs , like that which has been described in the Shrimp ; but the tubules are far less clearly defined ( fig. 8 ) , and do not appear to possess a chitinous basis .
Bands or fibres can be seen passing from the extremities of the tubules into the hairs .
These fibres , however which are very delicate and contain no chitine , cannot be traced , as is the case in the Shrimp , far into the tubular structure .
They appear rather to lose themselves towards the outer margin of the tubular chorium , which , instead of presenting distinct orifices , has a granular or cellular-looking boundary .
The nerve ( fig. 7 d ) can be seen entering the flabellum at its base as a large cord , which soon subdivides and ultimately breaks up into fibres , which can be traced into the tubules , and appear to be continued on to the margin of the chorium .
Some of these filaments seem to terminate in the cellular boundary , while others pass on to the bands or fibres which go to the hairs .
Although the sheaths and fibres of chitine which have been described in the Shrimp are not found in the Prawn , yet in the flabelliform processes of some of the larger prawns the author has found elongated and extremely delicate chitinous fibres , extending from the inner part of the tubular layer towards the roots of the hairs .
They do not appear to be so directly connected with the hairs as those which exist in the Shrimp , and may perhaps serve the purpose of the delicate chitinous lamina which in the Shrimp gives support to the chorium and to the tubular structure .
The flabelliform appendages to the head and the posterior abdominal appendages show something of the same characters , but in a less marked degree .
The extreme delicacy and softness of the chorium in the Prawn has prevented the author from extracting it in such a state as to be fitted for examination from those parts where the shell is thick , as the claws and ambulatory feet .
The view which is here taken of the uses of the hairs , and which seems to be proved by their anatomical relations , is one which has been considered by many as probable , though , so far as is known to the author , no investigations have been made which bear directly upon it , except those of Dr. ARTHUR FAR on the organ of hearing in the Crustacea * .
The author regrets that he had not Dr. FARRE'S interesting paper before him when the present communication was first sent in to the Society , as it gives a beautiful illustration of the fact of the hairs being made the instruments for the conveyance of delicate impressions .
He describes the hairs of the auditory apparatus as hollow , with numerous granules-apparently nerve-granules-contained in them , while the auditory nerve may be traced in the form of a plexus at their very base ; and he considers that the hairs or ciliated processes immediately overlying this plexus , exhibit an apparatus for extending the extremities of the nerves in such a manner as to render them sensitive to the most delicate vibration of the fluid with which the sac of the hearing organ is filled .
He is thus led to regard the hairs of the inner sac of the ear as representing a delicate series of antennae .
The observations brought under the notice of the Society in the present communication , tend to prove the correctness of Dr. FARRE'S views on the uses of the hairs found in the organ of hearing , as well as of the general conclusion at which he hints , that the apparatus found in that organ will present , on a most refined scale , a repetition of the form of an organ of touch .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
PLATE LXXI .
Fig. 1 .
Section of part of a foot-jaw of the Lobster ; showing the roots of three hairs ( a ) , with their shell canals ( b ) , and the connexion of their contents with the vascular layer ( c ) of the internal integument .
Fig. 2 .
From the larger claw of the Lobster : the section is torn , and the sheaths of the shell canals ( a ) , with their contents , are dragged out ; , b the bulbous terminations of the contents of the canals ; c , the connexion of these contents with the internal integument .
Fig. 3 .
From the flabellum of a Shrimp , the shell being removed:-a , the central mass , in which lie the nerves and vessels ; b , external protecting process ; c , hairfibres ; d , internal truncated extremities of their containing tubes .
Fig. 4 .
More highly magnified view of the outer extremities of three of the tubules , from fig. 3 , with the tubular fibres passing through and issuing from them .
Fig. 5 .
From the end of the larger foot-jaw of the Shrimp:-a , the pulp , made up of tubular structure containing the hair-fibres , has been torn down from the shell , h ; towards the lower part , on the right , the fibres are seen passing into the hair-canals .
Fig. 6 .
More highly magnified view of some of the preceding tubules , with their hairfibres .
Fig. 7 .
Contents of the claw of the shrimp , the muscular tissue removed:-a , Athe hooklike pollex ; b , the index ; c , the central lamina on which the hair-fibres are supported ; d , the nerve running up to the tubular structure from which the hair-fibres are issuing .
Fig. 8 .
The flabellum of the tail of the prawn , showing the tubular arrangement of the chorium , and the nerve ( a ) dividing and passing towards the tubules : at some parts the nerve can be traced to the extremities of the tubules , and may be seen to be connected with the hair-fibres .

