VIII .
" Contributions towards the History of the Colouring Matters derived from Coal-tar .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1863 .
In a previous Note I have shown that the red colouring matter cannot be obtained from normal aniline by the action of the agents usually employed for the preparation of this colour on a large scale .
This observation naturally induced me to seek for the constituent in the commercial aniline which gives rise to the formation of aniline-red .
I have already remarked that the commercial product which is best suited for the manufacture of the red colour , boils at a temperature appreciably higher than the boiling-point of normal aniline .
The idea presented itself of submitting this substance to a fractional distillation , or else of effecting a methodical separation of the hydrocarbons which constitute the starting-point for the manufacture of the bases ; but , as is well known , these processes are difficult and tedious , and there is little chance of success unless the operation be performed on a very large scale .
In the hope of accelerating the inquiry , I examined the action of mercuric and stannic chlorides upon the homologues of aniline , of which I fortunately possessed some pure specimens .
The contiguous term toluidine was the first to fix my attention .
The presence of this base in commercial aniline could not be doubted , since the benzol employed in the manufacture of this substance almost invariably boils at temperatures between 80 ?
and 100 ?
, or even higher .
Indeed Mr. Nicholson having convinced himself that pure aniline is not 2z2 647 available for the preparation of rosaniline , was at one time disposed to consider toluidine the true source of the so-called aniline-red .
But toluidine the purity of which was established by combustion when submitted under the most varied circumstances to the action of the agents already mentioned , does not produce a trace of colouring matter .
The subject , which thus appeared to become more and more obscure , was elucidated by a happy experiment .
A mnixture of pure aniline and pure toluidine , when heated with mercuric chloride , stannic chloride , or with arsenic acid , instantaneously produced a magnificent red of most intense tinctorial power .
This experiment appears to show that the red belongs to both the phenic and toluic series .
I have not as yet pursued my researches further in the new field opelled by this experiment .
In conclusion I may be allowed to state that by transforming into oxalate commercial aniline , and especially a specimen of aniline which was furnished to me by Mr. Nicholson as particularly well adapted for the preparation of the red , I have been enabled to obtain considerable quantities of toluidine in a state of perfect purity .
Having thus at my disposal the necessary material , I hope soon to acquire further experimental data for the explanation of the formation of rosaniline .

