XVI .
" On the Lunar-diurnal Magnetic Variation at Toronto .
" By Major-General EDWARD SABINE , R.A. , D.C.L. , Treas .
&amp; V.P.R.S. Received June 13 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the results of an investigation into the moon 's diurnal influence on the horizontal and vertical components of the magnetic force at Toronto , and the consequent deduction of the lunardiurnal variations of the inclination and of the total force at that station .
The observations from which the results were obtained consisted of five years of hourly observation of the bifilar and vertical force magnetometer , ending June 30 , 1848 , from which the disturbances of largest amount had been separated as described in a paper previously communicated ( Phil. Trans. 1856 , Art .
XV .
) .
The results derived from the mean of the five years are confirmed by the accord which is shown of the means of each of the half-periods into which the observations of the five years are divided for that purpose .
To complete the view of the moon 's diurnal influence on the magnetic elements at Toronto , a recalculation has been made of the lunar-diurnal variation of the declination from the mean of six years of hourly observation , ending June 30 , 1848 , employing the more perfect normals derived from the exclusion of the larger disturbances , as described in the paper above referred to ( Phil. Trans. Art .
XV .
1856 ) ; and the confirmation is shown of the mean result of the six years by the accordance of three separate portions of two years each , into which the whole period of six years has been divided for that purpose .
From these premises the author draws the following conclusions : 1 .
The three magnetic elements concur in showing that the moon exercises a sensible magnetic influence at the surface of the earth , producing in every lunar day a variation which is distinctly appreciable , in each of the three elements , by the instruments adopted and recommended in the Report of the Committee of Physics of the Royal Society , when due care is taken in conducting the observations , and suitable methods are employed in elaborating the results .
2 .
That the lunar diurnal variation in each of the three elements constitutes a double progression in each lunar day ; the declination having two easterly and two westerly maxima , and the inclination and total force each two maxima and two minima between two successive passages of the moon over the astronomical meridian ; the variation passing in every case four times through zero in the lunar day .
The approximate range of the lunar-diurnal variation at Toronto is 38 " in the declination , 4"'5 in the inclination , and '000012 parts of the total force .
3 .
That the lunar-diurnal variation thus obtained appears to be consistent with the hypothesis that the moon 's magnetism is , in great part at least if not wholly , derived by induction from the magnetism of the earth .
4 .
That there is no appearance in the lunar-diurnal variation of the decennial period , which constitutes so marked a feature in the solar diurnal variations .

