[ 193 ] VIII .
On the Sexual Cells and the Early Stages the Development of Millepora plicata .
By Sydney J. Hickson , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
Fellow of Downing College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. B.S. Received November 19 , \#151 ; Read December 8 , 1887 .
[ Plates 38 , 39 .
] Upon the edge of the fringing coral reefs which run along the southern shore of Talisse Island ( N. Celebes ) , I found considerable quantities of a large handsome Millepora growing vigorously .
The form seems to correspond very closely with the M. plicata of Milne Edwards ( 8)# , the most striking feature of which is that it is " plisse pres des bords et donnant naissance a quelques lobes verticaux qui se detachent a angle droit de chaque surface des feuilles en form de crates .
" I broke off several pieces of these and preserved them either in absolute alcohol alone or in alcohol after treatment with corrosive sublimate .
I never saw the zooids properly expanded , either when they were living in their natural position on the reefs or in my aquaria .
Upon making a rough examination , by means of the very imperfect methods at my command in my little hut in the tropics , I found that the species is hermaphrodite , both ova and spermoblasts being present in the coenosarcal canals .
This result was sent as a short note to the Royal Society in December , 1885 ( 10 ) .
Our knowledge of the soft parts of the genus Millepora is due to the investigations of L. Agassiz ( l ) and to the excellent Memoir of Moseley ( 13 ) , hut neither of these authors , nor Nelson and Duncan ( 14 ) were fortunate enough to discover the sexual organs .
On my return from the tropics I commenced a series of observations in the University Museum at Oxford , and continued them in the Morphological Laboratory at Cambridge , upon the origin of the sexual cells in this species and the early stages of its development .
Unfortunately , my work was much delayed by finding that several of the specimens were sterile , so that I have been occupied nearly twelve months in making my series complete , in establishing my results , and confirming my conclusions .
It is my intention at some future date to publish an account of my observations upon * The numbers in parentheses refer to the Literature List at end of paper .
the general anatomy of the hard and soft parts of this species of In this communication I intend to confine myself to a consideration of the male and female sexual cells and their maturation , the impregnation of the ovum , and the early stages in the development .
The Sexual Cells.\#151 ; Both male and female sexual cells arise in the ectoderm of the ccenosarcal canals , which anastomose between the dactylozooids and the gastrozooids .
They commence as undifferentiated small cells ( Plate 38 , fig. 3 , s.c. ) lying on the mesoglcea between or beneath the ectoderm cells , and may readily be distinguished by their homogeneous structure and the readiness with which they stain in Borax carmine .
The young ova , distinguished from the young spermospores by their small clear nucleus , become spindle-shaped at an earlier period , and may be seen to penetrate the mesoglcea to take up a position in the endoderm ( fig. 3 s.c1 .
) .
The young male sexual cells or spermospores generally attain to a greater size than the young ova before they penetrate the mesogloea , and are distinguished by their large nuclei containing a coarse protoplasmic meshwork ( fig. 6 As soon as the young spermospore has taken up its position in the endoderm the nucleus increases considerably in size ( fig. The protoplasmic meshwork next splits up into a number of hook or rod-shaped pieces ( fig. 8 ) , and these divide again into a large number of very small particles ( fig. 9 ) .
At this period these small nuclei fragments occupy the whole spermospore , which is surrounded by a thin structureless membrane .
The spermospores now migrate , probably in an amoeboid manner , along the canals to the zooids .
In most cases they choose the dactylozooids , but in one or two instances I have found them in the gastrozooids .
At first they are to be found in the basal endoderm ( fig. 1 sp. ) , but subsequently they pass into the cavity of the zooid .
At about this period the surrounding membrane of the spermospore disappears , and a swarm of young spermoblast occupy the cavity of the zooid .
The outlines of these are difficult to see when they are en mass , but their structure can be well seen where a few are scattered about at the edge of a torn section .
Again entering the endoderm , they push out the mesogloea into a number of diverticula between the tentacles , in which they remain until they are mature .
These diverticula or sporosacs ( fig. 12 ) vary considerably in number .
Sometimes there are as many as four or five , but more usually only one or two .
I have been unable to find any trace of the formation of a sporosac before the advent of the spermoblasts .
It seems as if the spermoblasts were the active agents in the formation of the sporosacs , that , in other words , the spermoblasts do not migrate to any locality or structure already prepared for them , but choose for themselves a locality or localities which can readily be pushed out into the form of sporosacs .
It is difficult to say very definitely whether the spermoblasts themselves actually perforate the mesogloea to take up a position in the ectoderm , but I believe they do not .
The wall of the sporosac seems to me to be always continuous with the mesogloea of the body wall .
There is nothing present in the STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MILLEPORA PLICATA .
sporosac at all comparable with a spadix , nor is there any other evidence of the sporosac being a degenerate medusiform gonophore .
The Ova.\#151 ; The young ova , having penetrated the mesogloea of the canals in the germinal region , increase in size rapidly ( figs. 3 and 4 ) .
As they increase in size they become stalked , the stalk remaining attached to the mesogloea .
This stalk of the ovum is not a separate structure but simply a pseudopodium modified for the purpose of retaining the ovum in position .
It might be compared with the stalk of an Infusorian .
A structure probably similar to this has already been described in the ova of Myriothelaby Allman ( 3 ) .
I am not certain at what period , but certainly some time before maturation , the ovum changes its position in the canal by amoeboid movement ( fig. 5 ) .
The ovum throws out pseudopodia , withdraws its stalk , and wanders away to a more favourable locality , where it again settles down as an oval stalked ovum .
Maturation takes place while the ovum is at rest .
The germinal vesicle , which in immature ova is very distinct , becomes obscured ( Plate 39 , fig. 14 , D ) and eventually disappears ( fig. 14 , E ) .
A spindle-shaped structure with longitudinal strise next appears in the middle of the ovum ( fig. 14 , F ) , and this gives off the first polar globule .
In the next stage the spindle-shaped structure is much longer but more indistinct ( fig. 14 , G ) ; this gives off the second polar globule , and the spindle is dispersed .
During the formation of the second spindle , and subsequently , the substance of the ovum becomes clouded and heterogeneous , as if some considerable disturbance of the protoplasm was going on .
After the dispersion of the second spindle , impregnation takes places .
It is very probable that at this stage the ovum withdraws its stalk again , and wanders in the lumina of the canals in search of the spermatozoa , for 1 have never found one with a stalk .
The heads of the spermatozoa enter the ovum , leaving their tails on the surface .
When the head of the spermatozoon is within the ovum it appears as a dark corpuscle which stains deeply , surrounded by a clear transparent space .
As many as three or four spermatozoa may thus enter the ovum , but whether they all take part in impregnation , or are all but one of them discharged again , I cannot tell ( fig. 14 , J and K ) .
After impregnation the ovum again becomes clear and homogeneous , and the nucleus reappears ( fig* 14 , L ) .
It would be difficult to distinguish an ovum at this stage from an ovum just before maturation , were it not for the presence of remains of the polar globule .
The nucleus , soon after its reappearance , is seen to be filled with a number of small spherical bodies like nucleoli ( fig* 14 , M ) .
The wall of the nucleus next disappears , and these spherical bodies , together with a number of very small fragments , are seen scattered about in the region of the ovum formeily occupied by the nucleus ( fig. 14 , N ) .
Later , they migrate towards the centre of the ovum , where they form an equatorial zone of two or thiee lows ( fig* 14 , O , P and Q ) .
This zone divides into two clusters of fragments which , travelling 2 o 2 first to the two poles ( fig. 14 , It ) , eventually are scattered over the whole ovum ( fig. 14 , S ) .
At this stage , but not before , it is possible to discern in favourably stained specimens certain faint shadings in the substance of the young embryo , which indicate that each fragment is surrounded by its own proper protoplasm .
The fragments have grown to such a size as to enable us to call them nuclei , and the young embryo has reached a stage which corresponds with the morula stage of other embryos .
At this period in the development the stalk is withdrawn , and the embryo generally wanders into the neighbouring gastrozooid , where it either fixes itself again to the basal mesogloea or lies unattached in the basal endoderm ( fig. 2 ) .
The nuclei next arrange themselves circumferentially so as to form a solid , blastosphere .
At this period I believe most of the embryos are set free , probably as ciliated larvae , being discharged into the sea by the mouth of the gastrozooid .
Were they discharged as the spermatozoa are from a sporosac on the body wall , 1 must have found at least one example in many hundred preparations ; but not only have I found no female sporosacs , but also not one single embryo in a gastrozooid in any other position than in the basal endoderm .
Sometimes the embryos seem to remain a long time in their position in the basal endoderm of the gastrozooid .
In one example I found three or four embryos nearly twice as large as the mature ovum .
In one of them there was a slight invagination of the nuclei at one point , accompanied by a proliferation of the nuclei there ( fig. 14 , W ) .
Later stages in the development are unknown to me .
The Origin of the Sexual Cells.\#151 ; My investigations upon the sexual cells support the views of the Hertwigs ( 9 ) and Weismann ( 15 ) , that the sexual cells of the Hydromedusae originate consistently in the ectoderm .
I am inclined to agree with the suggestion of Weismann ( 15 ) that in the ancestral forms of the Hydromedusse all the sexual cells originated in the ectoderm , and were ripened in and eventually discharged from that tissue , without entering into any other .
The reason for the wandering of the sexual cells in from the ectoderm to the endoderm must be sought for in the presence of a hard , inflexible , calcareous exoskeleton .
The corallum or coenenchym ( Moseley ) of the Millepora is undoubtedly a product of the ectoderm of the coenosarcal canals , and it seems most probable that the proper growth and nutrition of the young sexual cells would be seriously interfered with by contact with such a substance , were they to remain in the ectoderm .
Consequently we find that at an early stage they perforate the mesogloea to take up a position in the endoderm .
Whether this is a sufficient and the only cause of the migration of the sexual cells it is impossible to say .
I am inclined to believe that the possibility of better nourishment in the endoderm should be taken into consideration .
Professor Weismann ( 15 ) maintains that in the Tubularian Hydroids there is no difference in the nourishing powers of the ectodeim STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MILLEPORA PLICATA .
and the endoderm .
It is true , as he points out , that these cells do not feed in an amoeboid fashion upon unprepared food , but are only nourished by the fluid or chime prepared by the action of the endoderm cells .
But surely there must be more of this fluid in the tissue which prepares it than in the tissues to which it is distributed .
There must be more surplus chime in the endoderm , which has to supply the whole organism , than in the ectoderm , which has to seize and appropriate only what is brought to it .
That the rapid absorption of a large amount of nutritive material is of the utmost importance we see from many examples , but none more striking than that of , which , according to Kleinenberg ( 11 ) , throws out a considerable number of pseudopodia to increase its absorbing surface .
Perhaps it is premature , however , to say definitely that the endoderm does afford more nourishment for the sexual cells than the ectoderm ; but as it seems to me to be quite possible , if not highly probable , that it does , we cannot dismiss this as an impossible cause of the migration of the sexual cells until we have some definite grounds for saying it is not .
The Ova.\#151 ; The pseudopodia and the peculiar stalk of the ova of are not altogether unknown in other types .
Thus , the ova of Hydra ( 11 ) and ( l possess pseudopodia , and , according to Weismann , the ova of some Tubularian Hydroids wander in the colony in an amoeboid manner .
The stalk of the ovum of Millepora , to which a similar structure exists in tliela ( 3 ) , simply serves to keep the ovum in its proper position in the canal .
It seems to be sometimes completely withdrawn when the ovum migrates , and to be re-formed when the ovum comes to rest .
It is , in fact , simply a pseudopodium modified to keep the ovum in its position in the endoderm .
The Maturation and Impregnation of the Ovum do not offer any striking peculiarities .
The formation of the nuclear spindles was difficult to observe , as my specimens were not specially prepared for this kind of minute histological investigation ; but from what I was able to observe in well-stained specimens , with a high power , I should think that the history of the formation of the nuclear spindles does not differ materially from what has been described by other authors in other ova .
That the two polar globules are not always seen at the same point is not peculiar to MiUepora ( cf. Carnoy ( 6 ) , vol. 2 ) .
The absence of any true segmentation in the ovum of Millepora is a very striking phenomenon , because it is not associated with the presence of a considerable amount of yolk .
The ova are only *01 mm. in diameter , and contain none of the yolk spherules or granules which are so commonly present in the ova of other Hyclroids .
The ova of some other Hydroids are known to develop without segmenting .
Thus , in Myriothela , Korotneff ( 12 ) says , " Nach der Befruchtung kommen in dem Entoplasma Zelien for ( wahrsclieinlich nach der Art der freien Zellenbildung ) die sich theilen und deren Abkommlinge sich gegen die Peripherie des Eyes bewegen und in das feinkornige Ectoplasma tibergehen und da ein Blastoderm rund urn das Ei bilden .
" In this case , however , the egg contains a considerable amount of yolk , and the formation of the blastoderm is probably comparable to that of certain Crustacea ( Eupagurus Prideauxii ) and Insects ( Tetranychus ( 4 ) .
The peculiarity of the ovum of Millepora is that it is a small egg with little or no yolk , in which complete division of the nucleus into numerous nuclei takes place , without any apparent division of the ovum itself .
In this respect it is unique , and the question arises whether we must believe that the ovum of the Millepore is an ovum which formerly possessed a large quantity of yolk and has subsequently lost it , or whether the segmentation of the ovum has been lost from other causes .
In the first place , it does not seem to me to be a necessary conclusion that , because the ovum exhibits phenomena which can be paralleled only by telolecithal or centro-lecithal ova , that therefore the ovum must have contained in bygone times a considerable amount of yolk .
In the second place , the loss of segmentation may have been caused by the migration of the egg after the early stages of development have commenced .
And thirdly , the evidence before us indicates that the Millepore ovum never passed through a stage with much yolk .
These three points must be considered a little more in detail .
The complete segmentation of an ovum must be considered to be rather of the nature of a repetition of phyletic history , than a necessary process in the formation of an embryo .
It is impossible to imagine a priori any definite use which the complete segmentation of the ovum can be in the building up of animal tissues .
Every ovum upon fertilisation , or even before , must possess a tendency to pass through all the stages in the phyletic history of the animal .
If it did not possess this tendency , we should have lost all traces of an animal 's history in its ontogeny .
There would be no gill slits in Mammalian embryos , no pineal gland in Vertebrates .
The science of Embryology would be of little value to us .
We know that this tendency may be overcome , by the fact that many stages in ancestral history , many organs and structures undoubtedly possessed by ancestors , disappear .
But what causes govern the obscuration or disappearance of these organs , structures , and stages , we do not , in most cases , know with any degree of certainty .
Turning now to the stages represented in the various phases of segmentation and the morula .
Most ova with but little yolk completely segment ; the tendency to repeat ancestral types is not interfered with .
Most ova with a large amount of food-yolk do not segment ; the tendency to repeat ancestral types is interfered with .
The natural conclusion to come to is , that in such cases this tendency to repeat ancestral types is interfered with by the food-yolk ; that the delay , which would be occasioned STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT O MILLEPORA PLICATA .
by the complete separation of considerable amounts of yolk , is of such disadvantage to the animal that the tendency to repeat ancestral types is overcome and lost .
But this is not necessarily the only cause which can bring about this result .
It is very probable that limited space , or a migration of the young embryo , would bring about the same result ; because , in the first place , an unsegmented ovum would occupy less space than a segmented one , and in the second place , an unsegmented ovum would move with much greater facility and less friction .
Now most ova do not move immediately after they are fertilised , and consequently they usually occupy a place either within or without the body of the mother , which is of sufficient size for the accommodation of the embryo when it is older and larger ; consequently , in nearly every case , the ovum segments when it is not charged with yolk .
Even the ovum of Mammals , which we have good reason to believe formerly contained much yolk , segments .
The tendency of the ovum to repeat ancestral types being no longer checked by the yolk nor by any other cause .
In Millepora we have an example of an ovum which is not only matured and fertilised in a confined space\#151 ; the coenosarcal canals\#151 ; lined by solid carbonate of lime , but also has to migrate to the gastrozooids after the early stages of development have commenced .
These facts are , I think , quite sufficient to account for the absence of segmentation .
But what evidence have we that the ovum of Millepora never did contain a large amount of food yolk ?
In the first place , had the ovum of Millepora ever been much larger than it is at present , it must have possessed either ampullae or larger canals .
Not a trace of these is to be found in M. plicata , the only species of which the sexual cells have been examined.* Had these ever been developed it is most probable they would have been retained , and the ovum , having more space for its development in the early stages , would have segmented , as the ovum does in Mammalia .
But it is difficult to frame any reason to explain why the ovum of a Hydroid having once acquired yolk should lose it again , such as we can put forward in the case of the Mammalian ovum .
Lastly , I believe that the general anatomy of Millepora indicates that this Hydroid is of a very old type , and has come down to us from pre-eocene times almost unchanged .
_ # . .
The curious phenomena which have been described , in connection Avith the fragmentation of the germinal vesicle after impregnation , are so important and so strange * It is possible that the ampullae described by Quelch ( 16 ) in may have been produced by parasitic growth , or that , if they are true ampullae , the species may be a more modified one than M. plicata , and possess ova with food-yolk , but this cannot be determined until the soft parts of ) ayi have been examined .
that I dare not offer any explanation of them before trying other methods of treatment .
It is possible that the processes of nuclear division are accelerated by the absence of yolk and segmentation .
The Development of the Spermatozoa.\#151 ; The view that the ovum does not segment on account of its migrations is supported by the history of the development of the spermatozoa .
In most animals the division of the nucleus of the spermospore is accompanied by its segmentation into a sperm morula or spermosphere Blomfield ( 5 ) and Gilson ( 6 ) ) .
In Millepora the division of the spermospore into a sperm morula does not take place , the spermoblasts being formed by the rupture of the spermosphere at a very late period .
It is highly probable that this is due to the same cause as the similar phenomena in the development of the ovum , and this cause is the wandering or migration that takes place through narrow channels before they reach their ultimate position in the zooids .
The Zoological position of Millepora.\#151 ; The very prevalent idea that Millepora and Hydractinia a , re related to one another , must now be abandoned .
The skeleton formed by the former is calcareous , by the latter chitinous , the zooids of Millepora are very different in character from the zooids of Hydractinia , and lastly the phenomena of sexual reproduction in the two genera are totally different .
Indeed , beyond the facts that they are both Hydrozoa with dimorphic zooids and a certain similarity of growth , there are no points of relationship between them .
I am inclined , to believe that the Milleporidse , together with the Stylasteridse , belong to a separate stock altogether from the Hydromedusse , a stock which never possessed medusae or medusiform gonophores . .
To this point I purpose to return in a subsequent Memoir .
List of Papers referred to .
1 .
Agassiz , L. Contributions to the Natural History of the United States of America , vol. 3 , plate 15 , figs. 3-13 , and vol. 4 , p. 292 .
2 .
Allman , G. J. A Monograph of the Gymnoblastic or Tubularian Hydroids .
Ray Society , 1871-2 .
3 .
Allman , G. J. On the Structure and Development of Phil. Trans. , vol. 165 , p. 2 .
4 .
Balfour , F. M. A Treatise on Comparative Embryology .
London , 1880 .
5 .
Blomfield , J. E. On the Development of the Spermatozoa .
Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Sci. , vol. 20 , p. 79 .
6 .
Carnoy et Gilson .
La Cellule , vol. 1 , fasc .
1 .
Lierre , 1884 .
STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MILLEPORA PLICATA .
7 .
Ciamician , J. Ueber den feineren Bau und die Entwickelung von Tubularia mesembryanthemum .
Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , vol. 32 , p. 325 .
8 .
Edwards , EL Milne .
Histoire Naturelle des Corallaires .
Paris , 1857 .
9 .
Hertwig , O. k B. Die Actinien .
Jena , 1879 .
10 .
Hickson , S. J. Preliminary Note on certain Zoological Observations .
Boy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 40 , 1886 , p. 325 .
11 .
Kleinenberg , N. Hydra : eine anatomisch-entwickelungsgeschichtliche Untersuchung .
Leipzig , 1872 .
12 .
Korotneff , A. Entwickelung der Myriothela .
Zool. Anzeiger , vol. 2 , p. 187 .
13 .
Moseley , H. N. Beport on certain Hydroid Alcyonarian and Zoantharian Corals .
Zoology of H.M.S. " Challenger , " Part 7 .
14 .
Nelson , B. G. , and Duncan , P. M. On the Actinozoan Nature of alcicornis .
Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , vol. 17 , 1876 , p. 354 .
15 .
Weismann , A. Die Enstehung der Sexualzellen bei den Hydromedusen .
Jena , 1883 .
16 .
Quelch , J. J. On the Presence of Ampullae in Millepora Nature , vol. 30 , p. 539 .
17 .
Schulze , F. E. Die Gattung Halisarca .
Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , vol. 28 , 1877 , p. 1 .
Explanation of Plates 38 and 39 .
The following lettering is used throughout :\#151 ; A. Albuminous sheath of the embryo in fig. 14 , W. emb .
Embryo in the basal endoderni of the gastrozooid .
End .
Endoderm of the zooids .
Ect .
Ectoderm of the zooids .
end .
Endoderm of the canals .
ect .
Ectoderm of the canals .
fr .
Fragments of the nucleus .
gr. Germinal vesicle .
M. Mouth of the gastrozooid .
m. Mesogloea .
N. Large nematocyst .
n. Small nematocysts of the tentacles .
Nu .
Nuclei of the embryos .
ov .
Ova .
p. Pedicle or stalk of the ovum .
p.g. Polar globule .
S.c. Sexual cells lying in the ectoderm .
S.c.1 Sexual cells perforating the mesogloea .
sp. Spermospore .
sp.b .
Spermoblast .
spi .
Spindle .
spz .
Spermatozoon .
S.s. Sporosac .
t. Tentacle .
2 .
Zoanthancellm .
PLATE 38 .
Fig. 1 .
Longitudinal section through a partially retracted dactylozooid of showing a nearly mature spermospore in the basal endoderm .
X 200 diam. Fig. 2 .
Longitudinal section through a partially retracted gastrozooid , showing two young embryos lying in the basal endoderm .
X 200 diam. Fig. 3 .
Longitudinal section through a portion of a coenosarcal canal in the germinal region , showing the young sexual cells ( sc.sc .
) lying in the ectoderm , and one ( .vc.1 ) penetrating the mesoglcea to take up a position in the endoderm .
Fig. 4 .
Two young ova lying in the endoderm of a canal and attached to the mesogloea by a stalk ( p. ) .
Fig. 5 .
An ovum changing its position in the canal by amoeboid movements .
In the last two figures the zoanthancellse have been omitted .
Fig. 6 .
Section through a small portion of a canal wall , showing a young spermospore lying in the ectoderm .
Fig. 7 .
Section through a portion of a canal showing a young spermospore lying in the endoderm .
The nucleus is large and contains a coarse protoplasmic meshwork .
Fig. 8 .
Section through a portion of a canal , showing a young spermospore at a later stage than in fig. 7 , the protoplasmic meshwork having split up into a number of loops or rods .
Fig. 9 .
A spermospore at a still later stage .
The fragments of the nuclear meshwork are now much smaller , more numerous , and occupy nearly the whole spore .
Fig. 10 .
Transverse section through a canal , showing a nearly ripe spermospore wandering in the lumen .
The fragments of the nucleus are now scattered throughout the whole of the spore , but a thin spore-wall keeps the contents together .
X 200 .
Fig. 11 .
Longitudinal section through an expanded dactylozooid with a swarm of young spermoblasts occupying its cavity .
X 200 .
Fig. 12 .
Longitudinal section through another expanded dactylozooid in which the young spermoblasts are situated in four sporosacs between the tentacles .
Fig. 13 .
a. Spermoblasts of Millepora , as they appear when the ripest sporosacs are broken artificially .
b. Spermatozoa of Millepora ( ?
) found in the canals .
[ I place ( ?
) after Millepora because it is impossible for me to say for certain to what animal stray spermatozoa in the canals of a Millepore may belong , but it is highly probable that the ones figured are really the spermatozoa of Millepora .
] STAGES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MILLEPORA PLIOATA .
Fig. 14 .
A series illustrating the maturation , impregnation , and early stages in the development of the ova of Millepor A.B.C. Three ova before maturation , all with a well-marked germinal vesicle .
A. An ovum at rest and attached to the mesogloea by a stalk .
B. An ovum , also attached by its stalk , but which has thrown out pseudopodia .
C. An ovum wandering in the canal by means of its lobose pseudopodia .
D. An ovum in which the germinal vesicle is becoming matured previous to maturation .
E. An ovum in which the germinal vesicle has completely disappeared .
F. An ovum in which the first spindle has appeared , and a projection on the surface of the ovum just opposite one end of it , which marks the position of the discharge of the first polar globule , G. An ovum , showing the second spindle stretching across the whole length of the ovum and just giving rise to the second polar globule , p.g } H. An ovum , showing the dispersion of the spindle after the discharge of the second polar globule .
I. An ovum , mature and ready for impregnation .
J. K. Two ova , into which the heads of the spermatozoa ( .
) have entered .
The head of each spermatozoon appears as a dark corpuscle surrounded , by a clear space .
During stages G-K the ovum , which wTas previously clear arid homogeneous , becomes clouded and heterogeneous .
L. An ovum , showing the appearance of the nucleus after impregna- tion .
M. An ovum in which the nucleus contains a number of nucleoluslike bodies .
N. The fragmentation of the nucleus. .
The wall of the nucleus has disappeared , and the nucleolus-like bodies or fragments of the nucleus are scattered over the proximal end of the ovum .
O. The fragments are travelling towards the equatorial plane of the ovum .
P. Q. The stages in which the fragments are arranged in an equatorial zone .
R. The stage in which the fragments are situated in two polar zones .
S. The stage in which the fragments of the nucleus may he fairly 2 d 2 called the nuclei of the embryo and the embryo a morula .
Very faint shading between the nuclei indicates the limits of each cell .
T.U. The nuclei in these stages approach the circumference of the embryo .
No blastocoel can be distinguished .
W. Latest stage in the development of the embryo observed : Nu .
Circumferential nuclei .
Nu.2Nuclei lying in the central mass of the embryo .
Nu.3 Nuclei invaginating and proliferating at one point .
A. Albuminous sheath surrounding the embryo , p. remains of the stalk of the embryo .
Dickson .
Phil. Trans. 1888.B 38 .
\#163 ; 'J-Hxekson\lt ; del Lift Imp .
Cainb .
Sci. Iiist .
Co. ffick son .
Fig. 14 .
Ph il .
Tra ns .
18 8 8 , B. Plate .
39 .
s---jr mm-s N 0 P Q R " v .\#163 ; '*\#166 ; t * * *.'j VyYu .
' mm / 9* rlPi\ V\#171 ; r * \#166 ; ' |*f ( \#166 ; \#166 ; B\amp ; m. hr* i ^ .It .
^ % s T u IS# f H\#174 ; I mmrngMMr* * \ f# % ; w ||M\lt ; Hlcksoru del .
L ilk AI rnp Oamb .
Sci. In s { .Co

