488 Dr. A. W. Campbell .
[ Nov. 17 , " Histological Studies on Cerebral Localisation .
" By Alfred W. Campbell , M.D. Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.B.S. Received November 17 , \#151 ; Read December 3 , , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction .
The essential aim of this work is to further the establishment of a correlation between physiological function and histological structure .
The present communication deals with the central gyri , the occipital , temporal and limbic lobes ; but an account of the remainder of the cortex , viz. , that of the frontal and parietal lobes and the insula , will be presented to the Society at a later date .
I.\#151 ; Material and Methods .
The normally existent topographic variations in arrangement of cortical nerve cells and medullated nerve fibres have been adopted as a standard criterion in forming judgment on points bearing on localisation , and a thorough examination of the disposition of these elements over the entire cortex of a series of human and anthropoid apes ' brains constitutes the groundwork of the research ; but , in addition to this , pathological material has been employed to amplify and confirm points concerning the topographic distribution of special areas , suggested in the first place by the normal arrangement .
II.\#151 ; General Histological Considerations .
After some general explanatory remarks on medullated fibre arrangement and cell lamination , each definable cortical area is discussed in turn .
III.\#151 ; The Pre-central Motor Area .
The pre-central or motor type of cortex is confined\#151 ; roughly speaking \#151 ; to the pre-central or ascending frontal convolution and a small coterminous portion of the paracentral lobule , its distinctive histological characters are a wealth of nerve fibres far superior to that of any other part of the cerebral cortex , and the presence of the " giant cells " of Betz or " ganglionic cells " of Bevan Lewis .
It is important to notice that its structure differs absolutely from that of the post-central or ascending parietal gyrus .
On examining the brains of two chimpanzees and one orang it was found that a similar area could be mapped out , not only agreeing closely in point of structure and distribution with that in the human 1903 .
] Histological Studies on Cerebral Localisation .
brain , but coinciding absolutely with the field which Sherrington and Grunbaum have recently found responsive to unipolar faradization in the same animals .
Strong confirmatory evidence in support of the assumption that in man , as well as in the man-like ape , the elements controlling volitional muscular movements reside in this area , is afforded by an examination of the brain in cases of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis , a disease limited in its attack to the motor system of neurones .
In two such brains submitted to exhaustive examination a wholesale disappearance of the " giant cells " of Betz from the whole of their normal area of occupation has been disclosed .
In the same brains the post-central gyrus entirely escaped affection .
Valuable material for the determination of differential localization in the motor field is afforded by the brains of individuals who have been disabled by amputation of one or other extremity , for in due course , either as a result of section of the nerve fibres with which they stand connected , or of suppression of the energy which they elaborate , the cortical " giant cells " controlling muscles in the amputated member undergo the change " reaction a distance " ( Marinesco ) .
In three cases of amputation of the leg and a like number of cases of amputation of the arm , in which the central convolutions were converted into serial microscopic sections , alterations were discovered limited in distribution to fields agreeing closely with Sherrington and GriinbaunTs respective leg and arm areas in the ape .
The annectant gyrus or buttress at the level of the superior genu , relatively barren in " giant cells , " seems to be an important guide to the point where the trunk area intervenes between those of the arm and leg .
IV.\#151 ; Post-central and Intermediate Post-central Areas .
This area is readily defined in both man and the man-like ape , and is limited in its distribution to the post-central or ascending parietal gyrus and its paracentral annexe , the floor of the fissure of Rolando forming a definite anterior boundary .
Since its cortical structure differs markedly from that of the motor area , and at the same time exhibits features common to known sensory areas ( the visual and auditory ) , its supposed motor function is denied , and it is maintained on the following additional grounds that it constitutes the terminus where fibres conveying common sensory impressions primarily impinge .
Physiologically it is " silent " under the influence of electrical excitation , and also partial ablations give rise to no interference with movement ( Sherrington and Griiobaum ) .
Its fibres , like those of sensory spinal tracts , myelinate early ( Flechsig and Vogt ) .
It is the terminus for the " cortical lemniscus " ( Tschermak ) .
490 Dr. A. W. Campbell .
[ Nov. 17 , Personal observations in three cases of Tabes Dorsalis , a disease affecting the sensory system of neurones essentially , have disclosed profound cortical alterations concentrated in this area .
Similar observations in cases of amputation of an extremity have revealed changes situated on a corresponding surface level with those noted in the pre-central or motor area .
It is suggested that confusion concerning the function of the central gyri has arisen in the past , from the fact that the tracts of fibres pertaining to these gyri run in such close association below the Eolandic floor , that a lesion affecting the conduction chain of one gyrus is rarely free from the damaging influence of involvement of the other .
Intermediate Post-central Area.\#151 ; This is a skirting zone in which the structural type is intermediate between that of the post-central area and the remaining parietal gyri .
It may serve for the transmutation and further elaboration of impressions primarily received in the post-central area .
V.\#151 ; Visual Area .
Calcarine or Visuo-SensoryArea.\#151 ; Two definite and distinct areas each possessing a specialised type of cortex can be mapped out in the occipital lobe .
The distribution of the first is influenced by and bears an extremely close relation to the calcarine fissure ; for the histologist its chief feature is the well-known line of Gennari .
Strong grounds exist for believing that this field is designed for the primary reception of visual sensations , and of these the following may be mentioned ; the only fibres in the occipital lobe possessing a myelinic investment at the period of full foetal maturation are those proceeding to this area ( Flechsig ) ; clinico-pathologists have proved that the minimal lesion equivalent to the production of a maximum of blindness is one concentrated in the calcarine region ; it is possible to map out this area from changes in it occurring as a result of old-standing blindness ( Bolton ) .
Occipital or Visuo-Psychic Area.\#151 ; The second definable area forms an investing zone or skirt to the first , and a remarkable wealth of nerve fibres coupled with the presence of curious large pyramidal cells serve for its identification .
It is argued that this cortex is specialised for the final elaboration and interpretation of sensations first received as crude impressions in the calcarine area , and that its destruction is responsible for those disabilities included in the category of psychic blindness .
* In the chimpanzee and orang analogous areas can be demonstrated , but they extend much more widely on the lateral surface of the hemisphere .
Histological Studies on Cerebral Localisation .
VI.\#151 ; Temporal Lobe .
Audito-Sensory Area.\#151 ; The first important field is a small one occupying the transverse temporal gyri , and therefore concealed within the Sylvian fissure .
As this is the first temporal cortex to become medullated , as it seems to be the terminus of the central auditory tract , and as there are clinico-pathological reasons for believing that its destruction is equivalent to the production of complete deafness , the assumption is favoured that it constitutes the primary auditory centre .
But further evidence on this point is needed , and the results of the examination of the part in cases of congenital or long-standing deafness of peripheral origin would be welcome .
Audito-Psychic Area.\#151 ; This area , of ready definition , covers the posterior three-fifths of the first temporal gyrus and is thus closely related to the one just mentioned .
It is seen to correspond with the well-known centre for word-deafness , but in reference to that disability it must be indicated that the structure of this region is alike in the two hemispheres , and without denying the dominant psychic action of the area in the left hemisphere the opinion is expressed that the right side shares that function , because in the only recorded cases of complete , uncomplicated and irrecoverable word-deafness , verified by an autopsy\#151 ; there are but two\#151 ; a bilateral lesion has been discovered .
Similar areas are defined with equal readiness in the anthropoid brain .
Common Temporal Area.\#151 ; The remainder of the temporal cortex shows a uniform type of structure stamped by a poverty in fibres and cells of large size , and it has been disappointing to discover that the angular gyrus is not endowed with any specialised arrangement .
VII.\#151 ; Limbic Lobe .
Pyriform or Olfactory Area.\#151 ; Histology supports comparative anatomy in suggesting that the lobus pyriformis must be regarded as the principal cortical centre , although not the sole one , governing the olfactory sense .
Remarkable superficially-placed clusters of large stellate cells and a tendency on the part of the projection fibres to gain the surface , characterise its structure , and the rudimentary fissura rhinica forms a most definite limit .
Hippocampal Area and Cornu Ammonis.\#151 ; The cortex covering the wall and lip of the fissura hippocampi differs from the above and also from that of the gyrus dentatus , but the function of this part remains obscure .
Limbic Area.\#151 ; This practically covers the whole gyrus fornicatus .
In the pregenual part deep chromophilous cells may be seen , resem492 Squares of Ellipsoidal Surface Harmonic Functions .
[ Dec. 2 , bling ones found in the lobus pyriformis , and it seems likely that these are the end-stations for fibres proceeding from the inner olfactory root .
A total absence of large fibres and large cells and a simple plan of arrangement is the general character of this area and does not lend colour to the doctrine that it , and not the Rolandic region , is a centre for common sensation .
" On the Integrals of the Squares of Ellipsoidal Surface Harmonic Functions .
" By Gr .
H. Darwin , F.R.S. , Plumian Professor and Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received December 2 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a sequel to three others on ellipsoidal harmonic analysis and its applications , published in Series A of the 'Philosophical Transactions , 'vol .
197 , pp. 461\#151 ; 557 ; vol. 198 , pp. 301\#151 ; 331 and vol. 200 , pp. 251\#151 ; 314 .
The integrals referred to in the title are absolutely essential for practical applications of this method of analysis .
A table of all such integrals is given in the first of the above-named papers , but the results are only approximate .
In the present paper the rigorous forms of the integrals , numbering 1 + 3 + 5 + 7 , are given for the surface harmonics of orders 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 .
A mistake is detected on p. 556 of the first of the previous papers , where the coefficient of f3in the cosine-function of the third zonal harmonic is erroneously given as 3 ; it should have been f.

