]\gt ; blood serum or other protein substances , while at the same time it dissolves necrotic tissue ; it is freely soluble and can penetrate to a certain extent , and when properly prepared it is practically non-irritating at per oent .
concentration .
Out of a very large number of antiseptics that were systematically examined , the hypochlorites seemed to be among the most generally useful .
It was , therefore , of interest to study the mode of action of hypochlorites and to endeavour to find related substances which might prove to be of greater practical value .
A number of years ago Raschig showed that when a hypochlorite solution is added to ammonia , the simplest chloramine , , is formed NaClO NaOH .
This reaction between ammonia and hypochlorite is typical of many similar changes between hypochlorous acid or hypochlorites on the one hand , and more complex amino-compounds on the other .
Our knowledge of these changes is chiefly due to the extensive researches of Chattaway .
A great variety of organic substances containing ( NH ) groups react with hypochlorites to give compounds of the chloramine group , i.e. , substances containing the : NC1 radical .
It appears probable that the germicidal action of hypochlorites is due to chemical reactions of a similar type .
It is reasonable to assume that the killing of micro-organisms by antiseptics is due to chemical changes brought work reported in this communication was done partly at the University of Leeds , with the support of the Medical Research Committee , and partly at Hospital 2 Compiegne , France , in laboratories supported by the Rockefeller Institute .
'Brit .
Med. Journ August 28 , October 23 , November 27 , and December 4 , 1916 .
Antiseptic Action of of the .
233 about in some of the compounds of the living cell , either by direct action of the antiseptic or by the action of products formed from the antiseptic by combination with substances present in the medium in which the anisms are suspended .
Among the chemical substances present in living cells capable of reacting with hypochlorites , the proteins appear likely to play a dominant role .
Under conditions of practical use antiseptics commonly act upon organisms suspended in a medium more or less rich in proteins .
Hence hypochlorites might be expected to react on both intra- and extracellular proteins .
The action of hypochlorites upon proteins consists , at least in part , in the replacement of the hydrogen of some of the groups by chlorine , thus forming substances of the chloramine group .
* The reaction is somewhat complicated by other changes which will be to in more detail later .
Now the ability of hypochlorites to attack proteins with the formation of substances containing halogen directly linked nitrogen appears to be related to their bactericidal action .
One piece of indirect evidence may be quoted at once .
Free chlorine , bromine , and iodine have not widely differing germicidal power , but when the halogen is converted into hypochlorite or hypobromite , a very marked difference appears .
The gerraicidal action of the hypochlorites , when tested against staphylococci suspended in water , is of a similar order to that of free chlorine , that of hypobromite is only about 1 per cent. of that of free bromine , while a solution of iodine in weak alkali , which may contain unstable hypo-iodite , has a negligible germicidal activity .
This feeble germicidal action of hypobromite and hypo-iodite may well be related to their known sluggishness in reacting with proteins and amino-acids compared with the comparative activity of the hypochlorites .
The probability that the formation from proteins of substances containing halogen linked to nitrogen was an intermediate agent in the germicidal action of hypochlorites made it desirable to make a systematic investigation of the germicidal properties of a large number of substances oi varied type containing the same ( NC1 ) group .
Most of these substances , as will be seen * Hopkins and Pinkus ( ' Ber vol. 3.1 , p. 1311 , 1898 ) showed that proteius which had been treated with a large excess of chlorine contained part of the ] ) alogen in a loosely combined form capable of liberating iodine from potassium iodide .
The view that these substances contained chlorine attached to nitrogen was first put forward by Cross , Bevan , and Briggs ' Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind vol. 27 , p. 260 , 1908 ) .
In a previous communication by one of us H. D. D. ) this paper was unfortunately overlooked .
Compare Struhetz ( ' Monatsh vol. 27 , p. 601 , 1906 ) .
Langheld ( ' Ber vol. 42 , p. 2360 , 1909 ) states that gelatine is not attacked by cold sodium hypoctdorite .
This erroneous conclusion is apparently based on the observation that on mixing the two solutions , unchanged hypochlorite persists , but as a matter of fact the bulk of the hypochlorite readily reacts with the gelatine .
VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; B. Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Chloramine Group .
235 4 ) Substitution in the nucleus of aromatic chloramines by Cl , Br , I , , or groups does not lead to any very great increase in germicidal activity .
More commonly there is a moderate diminution .
( 5 ) The chloramine derivatives of naphthalene and other dicyclic compounds of the sulphochloramide type closely resemble the simpler aromatic chloramines in germicidal action .
( 6 ) The few bromamines examined show a slightly lower germicidal action than the corresponding chloramines .
But the sodium sulphobromamides are much more active than sodium hypobromite .
It is significant that they react much more readily with amino-acids and proteins than does sodium hypobromite .
( 7 ) Derivatives of proteins prepared by the action of sodium hypochlorite and containing ( NC1 ) groups are strongly germicidal .
Blood serum inhibits their action to much the same extent as it does with sodium hypochlorite or the aromatic chloramines .
Mode of Action of and Reiated Substances .
Although it is obvious that more than an incomplete explanation is at present feasible , it is possible to discuss some of the factors regulating the germicidal action of the chloramines .
Chloramines and bromamines are usually more actively germicidal\mdash ; or at least will kill ol.ganisms at a lower molecular concentration\mdash ; than the corresponding hypochlorite or hypobromite .
Hence they cannot be regarded as the biochemical equivalents of the latter substances .
It appears as if their germicidal qualities were due to the properties of the complex chloramine or bromamine molecule as a whole , apart from the action of the active halogen in them .
But , on the other hand , we find that chloramines\mdash ; at any rate , those of the aromatic sodium sulphochloramide type\mdash ; react with amino-acids , peptones , proteins , and many other substances in very much the same fashion as sodium hypochlorite .
Thus , for example , on adding -toluene sodium sulphochloramide to an aqueous solution of an amino-acid , toluene sulphonamide is precipitated , and the amino-acid is converted into an unstable chloramino-acid , which subsequently decomposes to give an aldehyde and carbon dioxide .
In the case of glycine , the reaction may be represented as follows:\mdash ; COOH COONa COONa living cells .
It appears that the aromatic sulphochloramides act as chlorinating agents only when there is opportunity for the chlorine to leave the chloramine and attach itself to nitrogen in a second compound in which the nitrogen atom is united to less acid groups than those in the original substance .
We have found that the aromatic sochum sulphochloramides are readily formed by the addition of sodium hypochlorite to aromatic sulphonamides : NaClO Since the reactions of the resulting products so closely resemble those of hypochlorites , it might be thought that the above reaction was a reversible one .
That this is not the case follows from the following observations:\mdash ; ( a ) Aqueous solutions of many of the sulphonamides are remarkably stable .
Toluene sodium sulphochloramide solutions retain their strength unchanged for months , while if neutral hypochlorite were present , decomposition would be rapid .
( b ) Chloramine solutions do not give the reaction with aniline , indigo , etc. , characteristic of hypochlorites .
From the foregoing observations the following tentative conclusions may be drawn : fact that many of the constituents of living organisms , including proteins , peptones , amino-acids , urea , and ammonium salts , contain nitrogen in a form.capable of attracting the chlorine from chloramines of different kinds , is probably connected with the germicidal action of the latter group of substances .
On the other hand , while the chlorinating action of chloramines resembles that of hypochlorites , the germicidal action of the chloramines often greater than that of an equivalent amount of hypothlorite .
This superior germicidal action can be ascribed either to some 'Ber vol. 42 , p. 2360 ( 1909 ) .
Antiseptic Action of Substati ces of the Group .
237 obscure special action of the chloramine molecule as a whole or possibly to selective chlorination of particular cell constituents .
Practicat UJse of Chloraraines as Antiseptics.\mdash ; In judging of the suitability of any particular substance for practical use as an antiseptic many factors need consideration .
High germicidal , when tested against microorganisms suspended in water is , of course , desirable , but the degree to which this activity is reduced by blood serum , pus , and similar substances is of greater importance , since many antiseptics which act efficiently in watery solutions are practically inert when used on an infected wound .
The question of protein coagulation by antiseptics appears to be important , and the fact that hypochlorites and chloramines , many common antiseptics , are not protein coagulants under conditions of practical use is reatly in their favour .
Solubility is another important factor .
Many of the chloramines , especially those prepared from acylanilides ( Section in Table ) , have high germicidal action , but are very sparingly soluble in water .
They may be dissolved in vaseline or lanoline , and many of these mixtures were given practical trials .
They proved to be of little value , for anisms grew readily under the fatty film .
They were deficient in penetrating power , and their use was discontinued .
We were therefore led to pay special attention to the chloramines capable of forming soluble sodium salts , and some of these substances appear to be of genuine vaJue .
On the whole , -toluene sodium sulphochloramide seems to be as any , and it has already been used successfully for a variety of purposes .
The practical applications of the compound have been dealt with elsewhere .
* The substance is easily and cheaply made , especially by a method described in the practical part of this paper .
It is relatively non-ir1itating to wounds and can be used in situations where the ordinary antiseptics would prove too irritating or deficient in germicidal action .
It may be noted that this compound is readily made from -toluene sulpbonic chloride , a cheap byeproduct in the manufacture of saccharin .
Its manufacture has been under- taken by several British firms , and is sold under the name Chloramine-T .
Reference may be made at this point to a curious compound of hexa- methylenetetramine and calcium hypochlorite .
It is readily precipitated in the form of fine crystals on adding strong powder solution to hexamethylenetetramine .
The compound has strong antiseptic properties , but is of no practical use , since on keeping in the dry state for a few weeks , it decomposes completely .
Substances of this type do not appear to have been previously described .
Reference may be made to Delepine 's experiments on the action of sodium hypochlorite on hexamethylenetetramine .
In 'Brit .
Med. Journ nuary 2 , 1916 .
hitherto obtained by others , or for the preparation of which improved methods have been adopted .
A number of new sulphochloramides were epared from the corresponding hydrocarbons by successive formation of the sulphonic acid , sulphonic chloride , sulphonamide , and sulphodichloramine .
The latter substances were converted into the sodium sulphochloramides by the action of sodium hydroxide according to Chattaway 's method .
HClO R. NaOH NaClO The sodium sulphochloramides of the following hydrocarbons had not been previously obtained : 0- , m- and -xylene , ethylbenzene , chlorobenzene , S dichlorobenzene , bromobenzene , iodobenzene , mesitylene , pseudocumene , dibenzyl .
They are all soluble crystalline salts , sparingly soluble in caustic soda solution , and give the general reactions for chloramines .
The sodium salts of the sulphochloramides of diphenyl and diphenylmetbane , and 2.6 naphthalene sodium sulphochloramide were obtained in solution by decomposing the corresponding dichloramines with hot sodium hydroxide and then neutralising the solution .
We have found that a number of sodium sulphochloramides , including those of benzene and toluene , may be conveniently and economically made by a process which avoids the intermediate preparation of the sulphodichloramine .
This method simply consists in dissolving the powdered sulphonamide ( 1 mol .
) in a cold solution of sodium hypochlorite ( 1.2 mols warming and filtering if necessary , and then adding one and a half volumes of saturated brine .
The sodium salt of the suIphochloramide crystallises out ' Bull .
Soc. Chim .
' , vol. 9 , p. 1026 ( 1911 ) .
' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 86 , 'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 87 , p. 146( S Since this work was completed , Chattaway described the three mono-balogen benzene sodium sulphochloramides .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 107 , p. 1814 ( 1915 ) .
Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Chloramine Group .
239 of solution in about 90 per cent. yield , and is washed with brine and dried in the air .
B. NaClO The products of the action of sodium hypochlorite on protein referred to in the Table can hardly be regarded as chemical individuals .
They were prepared by , an excess of hypochlorite , with or without addition of sodium bicarbonate , to a solution of the protein .
After a short time the chlorinated product was precipitated either by acidification or by salting out with magnesium or sodium sulphate .
When an excess of sodium hypochlorite is added to blood serum , a certain proportion of the hypochlorite rapidly disappears owing probably to substitution of hydrogen attached to carbon in the various cyclic rings , e.g. , tyrosine , tryptophane , histidine .
Another portion of the hypochlorite replaces hydrogen attached to nitrogen , and the resulting protein-like substances containing NC1 groups when precipitated and washed free from adhering hypochlorite liberate iodine promptly from hydriodic acid .
In addition a considerable amount of hydrolysis takes place in the protein-hypochlorite mixture and a certain amount of nitrogen is evolved .
The formation of aldehydes by the decomposition of the chloramino-acids is also easily noticeable .
The reaction between proteins and hypochlorites is a complicated one and will be the subject of further investigation .
The compound of calcium hypochlorite and hexamethylenetetramine previously referred to was prepared as follows : clear filtered solution obtained from 50 .
of good bleaching powder and 200 .
of water is added to a solution of 20 .
of hexamethylenetetramine in 40 .
of water .
The mixture is at once cooled , when needle-shaped crystals are deposited and fill the liquid .
The crystals are filtered off , washed with a little cold water and dried rapidly in vacuo .
The yield is 14 .
The calcium in this compound can be removed by oxalic acid or carbon dioxide , giving a faintly green solution with marked bleaching properties .
The substance decomposes rapidly on keeping for two or three weeks .
Analyses of freshly prepared specimens showed that almost all the chlorine was in the hypochlorite form and that the ratio of chlorine to nitrogen was exactly 2 : 4 .
The proportion of calcium in the undehydrated substance ( per cent. ) was always too high for the simple formula .
( Ca per cent. ) The ability of hexamethylenetetramine to form complex salts is well known , and this may account for the excess of calcium .
drop of the culture is also made .
The mixtures of substance and microbes are carefully shaken every half hour and remain at a temperature of 18-2 for two hours .
A loop full of the contents of each tube is then taken and added to a series of tubes , each containing 3 .
of bouillon , which are then incubated for 24 hours at .
When no growth appears in these inoculated tubes , the concentration of the antiseptic in the first series of is judged sufficient to kill the organisms .
Incomplete sterilisation is indicated by growth , and the necessary concentration for sterilisation can be determined more closely by subsequent repetitions at less widely varying strengths of solution .
The tests carried out in the presence of blood serum were performed in the same way , only the liquid contained in the first series of tubes contained 50 per cent. of horse serum previously heated to .
One drop of culture was added for every 2 .
of the serum mixture .
Action of C'hloramines on Amino-acids.\mdash ; The employed in these experiments was usually -toluene sulphochloramide .
When an aqueous solution of this substance is added to a solution of an amino-acid , -toluene sulphonamide is rapidly precipitated , and a pungent odour , probably due to a chloramino-acid , is noted .
On standing or on warming the solution , carbon dioxide is rapidly evolved through the decomposition of the chloramino-acid , and an aldehyde is formed .
In the following experiments equimolecular quantities of the amino-acid and toluene sulphonamide in water were mixed and then distilled .
Glycine gave formaldehyde , which was cbaracterised its nitrophenylhydrazone , M.P. , by conversion intt ) hexamethylenetetramine on evaporation with ammonia , and by various colour reactions .
dride behaved similarly to the above .
gave acetaldehyde , which was identified by conversion into the nitrophenylhydrazone , which , after crystallisation from alcohol , melted at the correct temperature , .
The Rimini reaction with sodium nitroprusside and piperidine was strongly positive .
Antiseptic Action of of the Chloramine Group .
241 gave oily isovaleric aldehyde which was identified by conversion into the nitro-phenylhydrazone .
Amino-phenylacetic acid and -phenylacetic both gave large quantities of benzaldehyde , which for purposes of identification was converted into the phenylhydrazone , crystallising from alcohol in needles , M.P. , and into the nitro-phenylhydrazone , M.P. .
In each case the aldehyde obtained contained one less carbon atom than the amino-acid taken , and it is clear that the reaction proceeds according to the following scheme : B.CHCOOH : NC1 B.CH COONa R. COONa The similarity between reaction and the oxidation of amino-acids with hypochlorite has already been noted .
yptophane.\mdash ; When -toluene sulphochloramide is added to tryptophane a blue-violet substance soluble in amyl alcohol , and closely resembling the coloured product of the Hopkins glyoxylic acid reaction is obtained .
lilood Serum.\mdash ; When chloramine dissolved in water is left in contact with blood serum at the ordinary temperature for 2-3 weeks and the product distilled , the distillate gives the colour reactions for both formaldel1yde and acetaldehyde , and a crystalline phenylhydrazone , melting indefinitely at , which is probably a mixture of the phenylhydrazones of the two aldehydes ( 130 and ) .
Stability of -Toluene Sodium Sulphochloreference has already been made to the remarkable stability of toluene sodium sulphochloramide in solution as evidence of the non-dissociation of sodium sulphochloramides into sulphonamides and sodium hypochlorite .
The following Table contains the results of some of these observations , which were made with -toluene sodium sulphochloramide .
This substance was chosen since , on account of its practical applications , the information was of special value .
The concentrations of the solutions were determined by titration with decinormal sodium thiosulphate after addition of potassium iodide and acetic acid .
It will be seen that the rate of decomposition of the solutions in the dark is inappreciable after 132 days , while solutions exposed to showed a slight but trivial loss of strength .
Two other points which may be of practical value may be mentioned .
-Toluene sodium ochloramide should not be left in long contact with steel instruments , since , as would be expected , the metal is attacked .
In order to see if cleanl gauze would cause decomposition of the sulphochloramide , a solution containing The figures in the above Table represent grammes per .
of solution .
Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Chlorarnine Group .
243 Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Chloramine Group .
245 . . . . . . . .
, .
5 . . . . . . . . . . . .
Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Chloramine Group .
247 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$ Anttseptic Action of ' of the .
249 \mdash ; . . . .
\mdash ; \mdash ; VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; B. Iessrs .
Dakin , Cohen , ] Antiseptic Action of Substances of the Group .
251

