]\gt ; Critical Loading of Struts and Structures .
By W. L. oWLEY , A.R.C.Sc .
, D.I.C. , Wh .
Sc. , and H. LEVY , M.A. , B.Sc. , F.RS .
E. ( Communicated by Sir Richard Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received January 2 , 1918 .
) The main points of practical importance in the following paper ( a ) Discussion of stability of a prismatic homogeneous strut on simple supports , loaded laterally and longitudinally\mdash ; criterion for failure .
( b ) Equation of three moments generalised to include the case where the central axis is rained to pass through non-collinear points , and where lateral loading and end thrusts exist .
Application to the case of bays , and the calculation of the moments , reactions , etc. ( d ) Case where one or more bays of Euler 's critical length are present in the system .
It is here shown that in general failure does not result .
( e ) Failure will not in general take place if bays are of Euler 's critical length , and the remaining one less .
( f ) Case where one or more bays are twice Euler 's critical length .
( g ) General condition of failure for a structure of bays .
( h ) Conditions of strengthening or weakening by the addition of an extra bay to a structure critically loaded .
( k ) Extension of the previous work to include the external loading due to wires in tension attached to the beam in the region of the supports .
( l ) Clamped supports :Determination of bending moments , etc. , and condition of failure .
( m ) Strengthening effect of clamped supports .
Failure in the above is understood to imply instability of geometrical configuration of the structure , under the critical loading .
S1 .
interesting questions of considerable practical importance relating to the failure of a structure under compression have been brought to light by a study of the problems of the strength of aeroplane frameworks .
Unfortunately , however , very little advance has been made in this question on the theoretical side in its direct application to aeronautics , although a large number of investigations exist dealing with the general theory of elastic stability .
It is extremely difficult to translate such results to make them directly useful in dealing with aeroplane frameworks , and , in fact , the general theory as ordinarily presented does not appear to Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
contain within it certain particular forms of failure that arise in this connection .
The present paper is an attempt to solve , as far as possibl roblems relating to the strength of such a construction as a beam under end thrusts , and supported at intermediate points .
In a sense there are two types of failure of a structure .
On the one hand , the material of a member may rupture on account of the yield stress having been exceeded during the course of the loading , while , on the other , the loading may be such that the geometrical configuration previously existing can no longer be maintained , even approximately .
It is the second type of failure to which attention in this paper will be chiefly directed .
S2 .
The ground will be cleared initially by a simple discussion of an elementary case that may arise , such as , for example , when a prismatic , homogeneous , rectilinear uniform strut with simple supports at the ends is loaded both laterally and longitudinally .
Let AB be the strut , simply supported at the ends A and , and let lb. per unit length be the intensity of lateral loading at , of co-ordinates and Let and be externally applied bending moments at the ends .
Taking the origin at , and AB as the axis of , consider the equilibrium of the beam .
The bending moment at is given by .
where is the bending moment at due to the lateral loading alone .
Equating this to the resisting moment , viz. , -EI ( curvature ) and assuming the deflections small , we find -EI , ( 1 ) where does not involve and M2 .
This equation may be written , ( 2 ) where .
( 3 ) Critical Loading of Struts and uctures .
Integrating , we obtain , ( 4 ) where the operator has its usual nificance , and the expression is easily evaluated in general by expanding in a Fourier series .
For convenience , represent this as a known function , X , independent of and .
In the two special cases , firstly , in which there is no lateral loading , and , secondly , in which this loading is uniform , X ( x ) becomes zero and respectively .
To determine and we note that ; therefrom from ( 4 ) , and .
Hence . .
( 6 ) The bending moment at any point is B.M. -EI .
Since all the terms on the -hand side of this equation in general must be finite , with the exception of that involving , the bending moment at any point can only become infinite when , ( 8 ) unless at the same time .
( 9 ) Equation ( 8 ) indicates that when the length of the strut is given by i.e. , ( 10 ) bending moments and deflections become excessively large compared with those allowable by the analysis .
Equation ( 10 ) is the commonly recognised expression for " " Euler 's strut It should be particularly noted that under these conditions equation ( 9 ) , reducing to 408 Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
icated structure , hese curnished fromthose assumptions uysis iased .
Thiso buding moments aeflections earge iomparison withmay eresent astrut oength without fetermined bding aystem , ation between tbending moments whichmay prevent ttrut ferian sense , ater.oment iuffices tuggest thich resulting .
Such cases will shortly be discussed .
loading of the beam is essentially associated with the production , at all points , small deflection , by inserting the condition that the former become infinite .
ending moments , onstrut , reated buler , theassumptionofiGhasbeenshown that , up to the first critical loading given by the straight position of equilibrium is stable to small disturbances , but that , position of equilibrium , where the axis takes up the form of an elastica , the geometry of the structure being unstable .
It will be assumed in the present discussion that , in the more complicated structures here to be treated , the lowest critical position furnished by the criterion already stated is one of instability with respect to the geometrical configuration , that , in fact , a loading greater than that stated here as ical will involve such deflections as would destroy the shape of the structure .
S4 .
Case of a[Tniform Beam under lJnd where the Central Axis is for loadings above tystem deflects fhisrt o to a new constra to pass through Fixed Points.\mdash ; Let , 1 , 2 , 3 , .
, be the supports whose positions are given , and let their distances from the datum line On be small compared with the lengths of the , 12 , 23 , etc. , and suppose , , , are the flexural idities of the corresponding bays 01 , 12 , . .
Let , be the distances of 1 , 2 , 3 , etc. , from 02 , 13 , 24 , etc. , then , etc. , will be termed the Critical Loading of Struts and Structures .
deflections at the supports .
It is clear that , as long as the beam is not otherwise constrained by wires inclined to the datum line On , at any intermediate points the longitudinal force will be constant and equal to along each bay as far as quantities of the second order .
Modifications resulting from the attachment of such wires will receive special treatment later .
It is proposed , in the first place , to find an expression for the bending moment at each point of the beam .
S5 .
Consider the and bays , ABC , laterally loaded according to some given , and of lengths and respectively .
The remainder of the beam to the left of the support , together with the support itself , may be replaced , since the deflections are supposed small , by forces and , parallel and perpendicular respectively to , and a bending moment .
Similarly , the beam to the of and the support itself may be replaced by , and Taking the origin of co-ordinates at , the bending moment at any point is where is the moment about of the lateral .
Equating this to the restoring moment being small , it is on investigation that , ( 12 ) where ( 13 ) and similar to the simple case already treated .
and are to be obtained from the end conditions , viz. , is now the moment of the lateral force only on the portion of AB to the left of , about the point { cf. equation ( 1 ) } .
In addition it is to be remembered that bending moment at 410 Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Lvy . .
( 14 ) Accordingly If be the inclination of the strut at the support to , then tam , ( 17 ) where , say .
( 18 ) , say , ( 19 ) .
( 20 ) In the same way , for the portion BC between the and ) supports , still the origin at , similar equations are easily derived , giving as the gradient of the beem at the ( 21 ) This is easily obtained from equation ( 17 ) by remembering that the support now replaces the , the support remaining the same , and the bay takes the place of the By addition of equations ( 17 ) and we find .
( 22 ) , etc. , are defined in terms of the dimensions of the bays , their flexural rigidities , and the lo1igitudinal loading as shown by equations ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) , and and in : addition by the lateral loading .
This is the extended form for the equation of three moments , or Clapeyron 's theorem when the axis of the beam is constrained to pass through given points , and when both * The dashes on the 's indicate that these refer to the lateral load on the bay to the right of the point considered , so that has the same form as , but the appropriate , etc. , must be used .
If the loading in a bay is uniform , for that bay .
Critical Loading of Struts and Structures .
lateral and longitudinal loading exist .
A slightly more general form of the equation will shortly be obtained to include the case where external loading of the nature of wires in tension and inclined to the axis exists .
S6 .
If there is no lateral loading , .
If the beam be uniformly loaded with intensity lb. per unit length , then it can easily be verified that , say .
( 23 ) When there are no end thrusts , , and consequently , and equation ( 22 ) becomes a simple extension of Clapeyron 's theorem for the case where the supports are not collinear .
The non-dimensional functions , and V will be found very convenient for actual calculation in practical applications , and they are easily plotted for variations of the non-dimensional expression where Equation ( 22 ) can mow be applied directly to the solution of the problem under discussion where there are supports .
S7 .
Case of Bays.\mdash ; Lt there be supports , ured 0 , 1 , 2 , , , and spaced as in the diagram , so that the bay appears to the left of the support numbered .
Let the bending moments at these supports be FIG. 4 .
, , , the deflection as already defined , .
, , and suppose the lateral loading considered uniform along each bay , , , , is , , , , , are as before the flexural rigidities of the various bays .
Applying the generalised form of the equation of three moments derived above , ( 22 ) , to the three supports of every pair of contiguous bays , we obtain the following system of equations 412 Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
where.have.ignificance.ready.attached .
These.constitute.equations.from.which , bending.rior M equations ( 18 ) , ( 19 ) , and ( 20 ) .
any two supports , usually and , be known , the remaining bending moments in general are uniquely determined .
equations are fortunately in a simple form for rapid solution , in sharp contrast to the method of strain energy , where generally all the variables appear in all the equations .
Once the bending moments at all the supports have been evaluated , the determination of the bending moment at any point in each bay is a simple matter .
From equation ( 12 ) , by differentiating twice , it is easily found that the bending moment at any point in the bay to the left of the support at distance from that support is given by B.M. , ( 25 ) where and are furnished by equations ( 15 ) and ( 16 ) .
For this case where each bay is uniformly loaded therefore , ( 27 ) therefore , ( 28 ) therefore , ( 29 ) ( 30 ) Cntical Loading of and Structures .
The reactions at the supports are likewise easily evaluated , as follow:\mdash ; Consider a portion ABCD of the beam , enclosing the support , and let the reaction of the support upon it be , acting downwards , while and are the shearing forces to the right and left respectively of the support , then From equation ( 14 ) By taking moments about the support for forces to the right of that point we find From these is at once derived .
Using the notation given in fig. 4 , and measuring as in fig. 3 , the bending moments when positive will tend to make the beam concave on the under surface , and the reaction of the support upon the beam will be when directed downwards .
S8 .
In general , equations , , , , will suffice to determine the values of the bending moments at the supports , and consequently also at any point of the beam , according to the method outlined above .
It has already been seen that the type of critical failure here investigated is associated with the production of infinite bending moments , but before proceeding to the general treatment of this question , it will be worth while to enquire into the suggestion already thrown out , that the presence of a bay of Euler 's critical length would not of itself involve failure of the type here considered .
In common engineering practice failure is often assumed to be the case .
S9 .
Case where One or of the Bays are of Euler 's Critical Length.\mdash ; Suppose i.e. Such a bay , umassociated with the remainder of the structure , would Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
collapse under the load .
It is proposed to enquire whether or not the presen of the remainder of the structure can exert a strengthening effect .
expression for the shape of the bay is given by equation ( 12 ) in the form where satisfies equation ( 14 ) , viz. , Remembering that and and inserting these in ( 12 ) modified by ( 14 ) we find .
Therefore and For no lateral load 32 ) takes the simplified form and for uniform load stances ttructure wprovided ihown thenot oength Corresponding wthere then tradient aoint fxpression fheIt foefficients aprovided tsstatement tradient aonstant.erms o latter involving no indeterminateness if it is not itself of Euler 's length .
If , treated in the same way as the above , with reference to the course , exist a condition of the form given in ( 34 ) , and under these circumbending moments become infinite for any value of the longitudinal load up to that here considered .
This will come out froma discussion of the equations for bending moments .
It will be necessary to investigate the limiting forms which the coefficients and assume in this case .
It is clear , of course , that both these quantities become in the limit infinitely great , but Critical Loading of Struts and ctures . .
( 35 ) to deterluine the bending moments , but and require special treatment on account of the limiting fornls of , and .
Setting out these two equations we The groups terms enclosed in the to the -hand side of these equations clearly require modification .
The ollowing relations havt1 been found to hold for uniform cting ( from ) The only tetll which adopts indeterminate is .
Equations ( and ust now be replaced b ) 2 ?
( 40 ) and .
( 4 ] ) The two equations and , containing becoIne infinite or indeterminate , cau now , therefore , be ) iace by ( 40 ) and ( 41 ) , in which all the moments occurring in the previous two are still ) resent , but the coefficients are all finite and known .
It follows that in eneral the VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. 2 Iessrs .
W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
, , ( 40 ) , ( 41 ) , , , will determine finite moments for all the supports , and , consequently , also every point in the bealn .
Only under }ecial conditions about to be reated will failnre due to buckling .
, then , a beam supported at any ) of simple supports will not fail , in general .
through the moments becoming excessive , even some of the are of Euler 's critical length , provided at least one bay is this length .
Whethel or this will correspond with a stable loading of the stl.tcture will depend on whether or not the actual longitudinal load , if any , that would produce infinite moments is greater or less than Euler 's Ioad for the bays in question .
It appears then that the presence of of Euler 's is not in itself either a necessary or sufficient criterion lor instability .
An accurate yation of the conditions under which failure will take place will be iven and a comparison between the load , thus determined , and Euler 's load will decide whether instabi , lity exists at the latter position .
S10 .
On , of 's Ienyth.\mdash ; The equation for the bay is , ( 12 ) when and , lemembering , we tind , .
Now , ( 14 ) herefore .
( 42 ) This is the modified for this case corresponding with that given in equation ( 32 ) .
Proceeding by the lnethod adopted there the equations that ought to furnish the bending } ) for the bay are ( 43 ) .
( 44 ) Critical Loading of Struts and Structures .
In these equations , however , when become infinite .
It remains to show that the bending moments under these circumstances must also become infinite .
From the last two equations , by subtraction , we find , ( 45 ) therefore 46 ) Now is already found in terms of the loading find in general not zero , while Hence this equation , a relation between the bending moments , and , contains an infinite term , and since the coefficients of these bending moments and the remaining terms are all finite , it follows that one at least of the ben ding moments must become , and the structure must fail .
This is , however , not the lowest critical loadin S11 .
of : of \mdash ; The criterion of failure which will be in the present discussion is , as already explained , the production of illfinite binding moments at the supports .
Associated with this will be the assumption already known to be valid in the case of a single strut , that for values of the longitudinal force greater than the least that will produce these infinite bending moments , the geometry of the structure will not be maintained , the failure , in this sense , thus corresponding with instability .
It remains , therefore , to write down the mathematical expression which must be satisfied when the bending moments are infinite and to determine the least root , regarding it as an equation in , the force .
S12 .
Condition of for the Case obey ?
( fig. 4 ) .
\mdash ; The equations , , are sufficient in general to determine the bending moments at the supports .
These equations being linear , each of the bending moments may be expressed as the ratio between two determinants whose constituents are functions of the lengths of the bays , deflections , and the lateral and longitudinal loading .
The bending moments will become infinite when , and only when , the denominator vanishes .
This condition , assuming the bending moments at the end supports zero , expressed in determinantal form 418 Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
( 47 ) since ( 48 ) where S13 .
any particular case this symmetrical determinant can be very easily evaluated by the scheme .
Writing the value of this determinant for the case bays of Nos. 1 , etc. , as , etc , we obtain\mdash ; No. of ( 49 ) When the value of for any bay reaches , A and become infinite and the determinant in general also becomes infinite .
To avoid this it would be convenient to divide throughout by the product of the , so that instead of taking as the determinantal equation the condition ( 50 ) may be used .
Critical of Struts Structures .
Two special cases need comment corresponding with any one of the 's becoming either zero or infinite .
In the former this can only happen when is llade nitely small , but , as can be seen , in neither case is any real difficulty involved in the calculations .
It is interesting to note that , the criterion of failure for one bay , gives the result obtained Euler .
S14 .
The determinantal condition ( 53 ) involves , , which all known functions of , the end thrust , and is independent of the lateral loading .
and a solution of he problem is obtained iulnlediately the smallest value of satisfying the ndition ( is found .
It has been assumed that tlus longitudinal thrust is ) ractically constant along the whole length of the bealn , since the reactions at the joints acting perpendicular to the central axis only modify by second-order quantities .
The analysis , however , can be applied more generally , with very slight modification , bu nor practical case\mdash ; as far as eroplane frameworks are concerned\mdash ; by supposing wires under tension fixed tu the at the supports with a component force directed aloug the central axis A simple resolution of forces suffices to show that the bays are under end thrusts , not necessarily all equal .
The may then be represented as being under a longitudinal force expressible of course in erms of the force in one particular .
, now take the more ] form , etc. and the analy sis proceeds as before .
The determinantal condition ( 47 ) , being an expression ) ntaining all the , can then be easily expressed function of the for any particular bay .
When the point of attachment of the wires is not on the neutral axis , a bending lnoment of known is introduced at the COlresl ) onding support , and the appropriate nlodificalion must then be in the equations for three moments .
S15 .
Supports.\mdash ; Suppose at any point in beam the central axis besides being constrained to ptTs through a particular point is , by means of a clamp of Romc nature , elled to have axis in a riven at the point .
Such a support will bo termed clamped fuppol.t .
It is to idel what effect the introduction of such constraints has upon the strength of the structure by the determination of t\amp ; positions of the criticals in comparison with those produced when the same support is unclamped .
For the present purpose , a clamped support is in effect equivalent to two simple supports infinitely close together , and the 420 Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
equently centres round the , forllb of the conditions already obtained when one or more of the terms tends to zero .
Let , 1 , , be a beam supportel at points by simple supports , and at by two neighbouring supports , to constitute a clanlped support .
Consider a small section , PQQ'R , and let the heights of and above the datum line PX be and respect , ively , then the distance of above app cox . .
Hence In the limit , and coincide , Lim , ( 51 ) where the inclination of PQ to the datu1n line and the ] iation of the tangent to the same line , angles in an anti-clockwise direction .
Similarly , distance of from , and hence In the light of these , the equations of three moments become modified by the substitution of the expression found in ( 56 ) and ( 57 ) for the deflectio1l terms , and the analysis proceeds as before .
It is evident , of course , both pys mathematically , that the system of equations is separated at the of double support into series of self-inclusive sets so that each portion of the beam between the clamped supports ma be treated separately .
It remains , therefore , to discuss only the cases where the beam is claulped at either or both end Critical of and Cbures .
S16 .
Beam Supported at ?
und Let , 1 , , be the beam supported simply at 1 , , and clamped at 0'0 and .
Let 0'0 and be and respectively , where these limit to zero .
Then.if defleotion at ) deflecGion at and ( Remembering that the system of equations for the lnomeuts at the supports takes the fornt These provide equations for the ) ending monents which now include and as unknowns .
The determinantal corresponding critical loading of course S17 .
The case where the double support is at end only likewise be siml ) treated .
The effect upon the strength of the structure of the introduction of the double support may , qualitatively at least , be seen from simple considerations 422 Prof. G. A. Schott .
The Electromagnetic reference to the determinant of failure .
It has already been hown that if structure of any number of simple supports so spaced as to be critical under loading , then the addition of one more bay at the end will have a effect , provided that the length of the bay is not ireater than the length of ] 's strut .
Remembering that the substitution a for a } ) support is ultimately merely the addition of nother bay of infinitely small length , it follows that clampi1lg one or both ends equivalent to a direct addition of strength .
The exact determination the magnitude of this increased safety is , of course , to be obtained by finding the smallest root of the determinant regarded as an equation in fact , the whole problem of the most efficient disposition of the supports to provide the strongest structure , in the sense that the critical longitudinal force is a maximum among those for all possible dispositions , can be treated with comp arative simplicity by a discussion of the determinants already set down .
authors are indebted to Prof. Love for his helpful Cl.iticisnlS and valuable suggestions , the notation .
Electromagnetic Lorentz Electron .
By .
A. SCHOTT , B.A. , D.Sc .
, ofessor of Applied Mathematics , UJliversity College .
Wales , Aberystwyth .
( Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1918 .
) 1 .
In a receJJt paper*on " " The ective Inertia of Electrified Systems with High Speed G. W. Walker extends his previous investigation the case of a perfectly conducting oblate spheroid , whose axis lies in the direction motion , for the time being , of its centre , whose tricity equal to where denotes the ratio of ) ) of the centre to that light , also for the instant under considel'ation .
He finds ( Note 1 ) that the and transverse masses are equal respectively to and ) , ( 1 ) tead of and given by mass formulae of Lorelttz and requiled by the of Relativity .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 93 , p. 448 ( 1917 ) .

