]\gt ; 1 oo cteristic Frequency By H. rANLEY A , IVI .
A. , D.Sc .
, Univel.sity of London , King 's College .
( Communicated ) .
O. W. , F.R.S. Received \mdash ; Revised July-August , 1917 .
) NUMBLR .
S1 .
Recent work on the specific heat of chemical elements in the solid has led to important sions with regard to the values of the atomic heat at constanlt volume .
The curves showing the variation of atomic heat with temperature are all of the same form , and any giveu curve can be transformed into any other merely by altering the cale on which the temperature is plotted .
This implies that the atomic heat is a function of the temperature , dependent on a single parameter , the function being the same for different elements .
Thus , where is a certain temperature characteristic of the element in question .
to the quantum theory where is the characteristic atomic frequency , is Planck 's constant .
is the gas constant for a single molecule , The work of Moseley*has shown that the frequency of the -radiation from an elenent depends upon the atomic number , that is the number which determines the position of the element in the periodic classification , and is probably equal to the number of positive unit charges in the core of the atom .
Isotopic elements , which occupy the same place the periodic table , have the same atomic number , and chemically are inseparable .
therefore have the same chemical constant or chemical .
But the affinity may be expressed in terms of the atomic heat at constant pressure .
Hence must be the same for isotopes .
But is a function of the frequency .
It is , then , probably fair to assume Lindemann that the atomic frequencies are identical for isotopic elements .
leads to the conclusion that the characteristic frequency is a function ) f , he atomic number , and is independent of the atomic weight .
It is the * Moseley , , p. 1024 ( 1913 ) ; vo ] .
27 .
p. 70 ( 1914 ) .
Lindemann , ' Nature , ' vol. , p. 7 ) .
Character istic and : object of Part I of the paper to show from the observed values that siulple lelation holds between the atomic frequency the atomic number N. an Determinalions oi the ractel istic temperature , or of the atoInir frequency , from the values of the specific heats , have been by Nernst and Lindelllann , E. H. 1$ iths , and at ver low temperatures by Keesom and ) further results ve for a number elements in 11 papelC .
bnt to the smaller value musC be ched .
Examination ] of the raph obtained against suggested that , for certain sets of , the prodncl , had a vaiue .
Further investigation showed the value of the product in cases was a simple mnltiple of the value in other .
Thus , the value of ' Nv for Ag is , for Fe ) .
For Al the value is , which nearly one-half the former number .
Pt we find , and for 11 , numbers which are nearly double those Fe .
Final } it was found that , in admost every cas nined , the value of Nv could expressed with an accuracy of 4 or )- per cent. as a sinlple multiplo } certain definite frequency .
This is illustrated in Table I , which contains the results for those metals for which the atomic cy has been determined with the greatest .
All included for which low temperature measurements are available , with exception of The product of the atomic number and the atomic frequency can be expressed in the form where , is an , which may be the numb ?
; an is a definite frequency , for which the hted mean value sec. The val.iationr ; in the values of recorded in the Table are not greater than can be accolulted .
by errors in 1 he determination of the frequency Commenting 011 the want of concordance in the values found by for the heat of lead , Messrs. Griffiths ' Lead , from our own experience , appears to he a nletal with which it difficult to oncordant results Nelnst , ' iiber die Theory de ] ' 1914 , p. 77 .
E. H. Grifiiths and , Grifliths , ' Phil. , vol. 214 , p. 319 ( 1914 ) .
Keesom and Onnes , ' K. Akad .
Amsterdam Proc vol. 18 , p. 1247 1916 ) .
C. E. Blom , ' Ann. , vol. 42 .
p. 1397 ( 19131 .
I .
H. S. Allen .
Table 1 .
\mdash ; htl [ : [ : [ : [ : [ : I / 1 .
21.3 oxperimental values recorded in the Table , attention llltst be directed to the temperature which the observations have been made .
There are sevel.al reasons determinations at low temperatures are to be the first place , the difference between and econles n at such ) fain : " " is at very low temeratures that the nnption made by Debye , namely , that the vibrations vbose frequency reater tigible , can best be justified , since such tempel.atures the slow heat vibrations would be the most important\ldquo ; ( Griffiths ) .
at such tempcratures th formula of Debye simplifies to the form onst .
, which is the correct type at low mperatures , and must be approximated to by any that is to give accurate representation of the , variation of specific with temperature .
tccordingly reater w has been attached to the determinations of eesom and Onnes , who determined the specific heat of copper between ctnd , and that lead between and , taking special precautions , to the temperature measurements and the purity of the material employed .
I is to be noticed that the value of for lead from these observations is Much earer to the mean value than the results obtained the earlier Messrs. Grifliths give two sets of values for or .
In the first set the are chosen to reentent with Debye 's ] over the lowest of the ] erature range considered .
In the second set is chosen * The results and Onnes for lead have been confirmed by Eucken and chwers in a of periments for which great accuracy is .
The latest determinations in NernRt 's boratory give for lumiDium N , and for , ffiowing even better agreement than the earlier figures .
Schwers , Phys. Rev. , vol. 8 , p. 117 ( 1916 ) .
Characteristic Frequency and Atomic I 0.3 so as to give coincidence at about , with the result that , in general , slightly smaller value of is obtained .
In Table I the valnes for are those belonging to the first set .
These ) enters also investigated for sodiulu , which appears ) somewhat exceptional in its thermal ) ehaviour , and for that reason has been included in the .
At temperatures they whilst at the is considerably lower , king the temperature value , ] , and Nv a It is in good agreement with those recorded in the Table .
Nernst has published determinations of the atomic frequency for two nonmetals , carbon ( in the form of diamond ) and iodine , it is find that they into line with the ] we { in , and for Similar results were obtained for nearly all the contained in I ; list given by Blom .
Table II the ures f elements with tl exception of and .
The value of is in kets in : cases in which the atomic frequency is stated by Blonl to be less Even in these cases it will be noticed that bas practically the sa1ne lue as was found to hold when accurate determinations of } available .
Table II .
\amp ; The bted meaIl value found the results of Table [ I is It will bc noticed that the mean value from able is somewhat smaller than the mean value found Table I may arise fro1n the fact that the values of by Blon *For Li Blom gives , which would make .
This sugg that in this case .
Determinations of the specific heat at low tures much to be desired .
For red phosphorus Blom 's value is .
This element exceptional ; we may write in the forul 4 I OJ Dr. H. S. Allen .
derived from observations of the specific heat } higher temperatures , procedure which , as we noticed already , usually gives a smaller value for frequency .
S :$ .
of of Probabitity .
I view the ected character of these results it is desirable to have check upon them in order to be reasonably sure that the agreement vcen the values is not accidentaL Such a check is provided by the of probability .
The case is similar to that discussed by Strutt*in a on the tcndcnc of the atomic to approximate to whole mbcrs .
Individual cannot deviate by more than a fixed lount y the nearest integral multiple of What we is the that after a given number ( i ) of 'trials ' the sum of the results should exceed a certain giveJl amount ; the result of each trial l between and any value between these limits being equally likely A the has been by Laplace series is to be continued only so as the quantities raised to the are positive .
Appiying this mula to the results of Table 1 , and for the sum of the differences between the observed and the ulated values 1 , the approximate value of the probability is found to Results of Nernst , Results of Griffiths , Mean esults , is , there is chance in 26 that the mean values of should proximate so closely to multiples of the number by accident .
The application of the formula to the results of Table II gives for the .
Consequently when the results of both Tables taken into consideration there is but a small chance that the assumed may be accidental .
S 4 .
Formula of In the theory of the frequency is a maximum which ) abruptly range of vibrations forming the , ' Phil. Mag vol. 1 , ) .
Theorie Analytique des Probabilites , p. 259 .
, ' Ann. Phys vol. 39 , ( 1912 ) .
Frequerlcy Atomic " " spectrum\ldquo ; of the solid .
value in terms of the elastic constants is given b.y the formula is the nnmbcl of ( tollS in volume } being the densi , ] cotn ) sibility , Poisson 's rati of solid considered is to atomic the atomic volunlc , and constant .
* Il should be that t , his for the uontains no ninod c : all the quantity , involved call measured .
Table IX of Debye 's , value of the terisl i. found from the elastic constants for 12 lnctnls , inld these results } employed in tion of and of in the Tablo ( II1 ) .
lt will ) seen in case the ) be )ised in the , able \mdash ; Atomic Frequency by Debv mula .
Mean value of Calculation 01 the probability iu this case is only chance in 45 thal the product should by accident so nearly integral mutiples of a single fundamental lrequency , Considering t difficulties in the determination of the ] aHtic constants , and the uncertainty attachiug to the temperature at which the lleaurenentH bhould ) elnade , this is a striking result .
* Debye assumes ; Millikan 's value , ettSt .
the values of by rather more than 2 per cent. Dr. H. S. Allen .
A comparison 01 the values of the frequency number , , obtained by the use of 's formula , with those obtained from the specific heat , reveals the unexpected result that several cases the integers are not the same .
This difference in the values of doubt arises from variations the physical conditions of the tance under examination .
temperature at which the are made must be taken into consideration .
It is well known in ] ) case of certain elements various physical modifications exist } structural changes in the solid .
S5 .
Choicc the In the work the atomic numbers employed have been those given seley .
It has ) ested } ) Rydberg that two unknown elements should be included in the iodic T between and lithium , so that lithium would have an atomic number 5 instead of 3 .
For all elements later in ) ordinals are rrreater by 2 units than Moseley 's nnml ) .
Tt is found that the relation fits the results of more closely when Moseley 's numbers are used for N. This'is clearly by calculating the probability for the two sets of numbers .
Taking the observations of Nernst , the probabilit ) given by dberg 's ordinals instead of 1/ 9 .
For the observations of Grifliths , the probaility given ) ) 's ordinals is instead of 1/ 11 .
When Debye formula for the acteristic frequency is employed , the probabilty is 's ordinals , but for Moseley 's numbers .
hese results regarded as evidence strongly in favour of the tomic numbers proposed bs Moselev .
* S6 .
sical of Nv results so far obtained may be summarised in the equation Nv for each element the characteristic frequency ( or frequencies ) may be expressed in ) of a single fundamental , by employing and .
The integer denotos Moseley 's atomic number ; ) physical of is not yet clear , but it may be suggested that it related , the number of ( valency ) electrons which determine the crystalline structure of the solids .
A possible interpretation may be given to the relation by Quantum Theory .
Multiply each side of the equation by Planck 's constant , , which denotes the quantum of action .
Then *The same conclusion was ived at , in a different way , by van den Broek , 'Phil .
' vol. 28 , p. 630 ( 1914 ) .
It is possible that , in some cases , instead of the value , it ma .
necessary to take a simple subnlultiple , such as , of this quantity .
Characteristic Number .
Considering atom of any element , represents one quantum of energy corresponding to the critical temperature .
The left-hand side of the equ ation represents the of energy for as many quanta as there are positive charges in the core of the atom .
The right-hand side may be regarded as the energy corresponding to an multiple of a certain fundamental quantum , .
It is necessary to emphasise the fact that this does not imply the actual existence of " " atoms of We are here concerned with the characteristic frequency , that , with a certain condition affecting each element in the solid state , and the occurrence of the quantity implies only that there is a certain limiting mount of involved , which is the same for various elements .
According to the theories of Debye and of Born , the vibrations of the atoms in a solid form a continuous spectrum , limited by a definite on the side of the shorter wave-lengths .
It is this limiting frequency which is taken as the characteristic atomic frequency .
It is not unreasonable to suppose that this frequency may ) subject to a condition similar to that expressed by Einstein 's relation , , which } been proved true by the experiments of Bichardson and Compton , and Millikan , for the photoelectric effect .
It has , in , been proved by several investigators that the relation accurately defines the boundal'y on the side of the shorter wave-lengths of the spectrum of -radiation .
In the equation we may substitute for , and for where and denote potentials at present undefined , and is the on an electron .
Then , or .
But Na is , the charge on the nucleus of the atom , and -ne is the charge carried by electrons .
If we may identify with the potential of the nucleus , and ( equal to about volt ) with the potential of a ring of electrons ( or of the valency electrons ) , the relation expresses the fact that the energy of ] atomic system is zero , or perhaps a minimum , in the condition corresponding to the frequency .
This involves the supposition that in the limiting condition the potential of the electrons in question assumes a constant value ( or perhaps a multiple of some constant value , since may be where and are integers The relation may also be written in the fornl , where A is constant .
This may be interpreted as expressing the fact that in the limiting condition the energy of the nucleus is an integral multiple of a certain quantity of A. VOL. XCIV . .
H. S. AlleIl .
AND ObIIC NUMBER .
S7 .
encies .
elation s. to that already discussed appears to for certain electronic frequency When , however , the vibration of an electron is in question .
it is to replace the atomic constant sec. by the fundamental electronic frequency , sec. which is 's constant in series , usually expressed as the wave number ( Curtis ) .
The tion then takes the form Nv In these in with the characteristic atomic frequency , refers to some frequency or to a frequency associated with a maximum value of some variable S 8 .
The of Effect .
Pohl and have determined the value of the wave-length to the nlaximum of the " " selective\ldquo ; photoelectric effect with an accuracy of aboul 013 per cent. results have been employed in the construction of Table , which the values of and of Nv for the lonr alkali metal .
examined .
Table ures in the last column of the Table show that may be expressed in the form where is a simple integer and is very nearly constant .
The mean value of for these four elements is sec. , which is so near sec. that there can be little doubt as to the identity of the two numbers .
A maximum photoelectric activity has been recorded for the four elements , nesium , luminium , calcium , and barium , which do not show a true ( selective\ldquo ; elfect .
It possible that the corresponding frequency and the atomic number are in a similar in these cases also , but the results not decisive .
htel kcheinungen ' ( Vieweg , 1914 ) .
aracteristic Frequency and Atomic Number .
S9 .
niting F of th otoclecfric Effcct .
The emission of electrons under the influence of light takes place only when the frequency of the exciting light exceeds a certain limiting frequency , ichardson and Compton*have determined this limit both from the maximum energy of the electrons emitted , and also from their mean energy .
The results been employed in the construction of Table Table With the exception of the values for sodium and one value for aluminilnn , the results are in fair agreement with the relation S10 .
Ionis The minimum potential required for the ionisation of a is probably connected with , the least frequency of radiation which can ionise the gas photoelectrically .
Einstein 's equation is where denotes the ionisation potential .
If then is subject to the relation , we should expect to find , where denotes a constant potential determined by .
From thi .
relation the value of is found to be volts .
This is the value in Bohr 's the for the potential in the case of hydrogen .
For , to this theory , the work done in moving the electron from its orbit to a position of rest at infinity is and .
Hence , which is , is equal to The value of the ionisation potential for ( lmolecular ) determined * Richardson and Compton , ' Phil. Mag vol. 24 , p. : vol. 26 , ( 1914 ) .
Einstein , 'Ann . .
Phys vol. 17 , p. 132 1905 ) ; Richardson , ' Phil. Mag vol. 24 , p. 570 ( 1912 ) ; K. T. Compton , ' Phya Rev vol. 8 , pp. 386 , 412 ( 1916 ! .
Dr. H. S. Allen .
is of the order of magnitude , but is only 11 volts instead of 135 volts .
The following Table ( VI ) gives the value of the ionisation potential , , and of the product , in all cases where direct experimental determinations have been carried out .
* The results in the last column of the Table show that , with the exception of hydrogen and oxygen , there is remarkable agreement the relation Table VI .
ement .
N. volts ) .
In the case of mercury ionisation of a second type also occurs for a potential of 10 volts , which is almost exactly double the value recorded in the Table , so that the corresponding frequency number , , would be 60 .
S11 .
Potentials .
lntimately connected with the potelltials here discussed are the potentials observed in dealing with the emission of electrons from ving solids and the contact potentials between different metals .
In these cases the results obtained depend to such an extent on surface conditions and the presence of aseous f , that as yet it is hardly possible to assign to the various elements reliable that shall be characteristic of the elements themselves .
The work that an electron ] have to do to escape from the substance may be measured by the equivalent potential difference , .
The values quoted in Table for , the " " electron affinity\ldquo ; of the elements in volts , are derived from thermionic measurements , for the reason stated must be received with some reserve .
It is , however , interesting to find that the values of approximate fairly closely to multiples of volts .
Frank and Hertz , Verh .
Deutsch .
Phys. Gesell vol. 15 , ( 1913 ) ; vol. 16 , pp. 457 , 512 ( 1914 ) ; McLennan and Henderson , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 91 , p. 485 1 ( 1915 ) ; Goucher , 'Phys .
Rev vol. 8 , ; Bazzoni , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 32 , p. 566 ( 1916 ) .
Tate , ' Phys. Rev vol. 7 , p. 686 ( 1916 ) . .
W. Richardson , The Emission of Electricity from Hot odies , ' pp. ) ; Langmuir , ' American Electrochemical Society , ' pp. 341-396 ( 1916 ) .
Characteristic Frequency an Table Element .
N. .
bfot b CalciumCarbon tsurements b Element .
N. .
bfot b ngmui , ements b S12 .
The empirical relations in Il .
in formula Nv On nlllltipyng side uation b or , by the quantum relation But No is to the , on the Hellae that in in under discussion , we to deal with value of the energy a sy stem coluprising the nucleus a certain nnlnbel .
VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A.

