393 1885 .
] A. General Theory of Mathematical Form .
( 2 .
) The results obtained by agitating water with various solid materials show that a very great reduction in the number of suspended organisms may be accomplished by this mode of treatment , and the complete removal of all organisms by agitation with coke is especially worthy of notice .
( 3 .
) Again , the results obtained with Clark 's process show that we possess in this simple and useful mode of treating water a means of greatly reducing the number of suspended organisms .
( 4 .
) Thus , although the production in large quantity of sterilised potable water is a matter of great difficulty , involving the continual renewal of filtering materials , there are numerous methods of treatment which secure a large reduction in the number of organisms present .
Moreover , in judgingof the value of filtering materials from examinations of this kind , it is only reasonable that a preference should be given to those materials with which a practically pure cultivation is obtained in the filtrate over those materials which appear to exercise no selective action upon micro-organisms .
In conclusion , I would point out that it is very desirable that experiments of this kind should be greatly multiplied and repeated under varying conditions , and it is my intention to continue and extend this examination .
III .
" A Memoir introductory to a General Theory of Mathematical Form .
" By A. B. Kempe , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir is divided into 426 short sections which are arranged under 42 heads .
Bach head is given in the abstract , with a brief reference to the nature of the sections it comprises , except in the case of the second head , viz. , " Fundamental Principles , " the sections under which are given almost in full .
SS 1\#151 ; 2 .
Scope of the .
The object of the memoir is the treatment of the " necessary matter " of exact or mathematical thought as a connected whole ; the separation of its essential elements from the accidental clothing\#151 ; algebraical , geometrical , logical , \amp ; c.\#151 ; in which they are usually presented for consideration ; and the indication of that to which the infinite variety which those elements exhibit is due .
The memoir .
is introductory only , .
comprising the statement of fundamental principles , and the vindication of their truth by a sufficient variety of applications . .
, . .
Mr. A. B. Kempe .
[ June 18 , SS 3\#151 ; 13 .
Fundamental Principles .
{ 3 .
) Whatever may be the true nature of things and of the conceptions which we have of them ( as to which points we are not concerned in the memoir to inquire ) , in the operations of reasoning they are dealt with as a number of distinct entities or units .
( 4 .
) These units come under consideration in a variety of guises\#151 ; * as points , lines , statements , relationships , arrangements , intervals or periods of time , algebraical expressions , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c.\#151 ; occupy various positions , and are otherwise variously circumstanced .
Thus while some units are undistinguished from each other , others are by these peculiarities rendered distinguishable .
For example , the angular points of a square are distinguishable from the sides , but are not distinguishable from each other .
In some instances where distinctions exist they are ignored as not material .
Both cases are included in the general statement that some units are distinguished from each other and some are not , ( 5 .
) In like manner some pairs of units are distinguished from each other while others are not .
Pairs may be distinguished even though the units composing them are not .
Thus the angular points of a square are un distinguish able from each other , and a pair of such points lying at the extremities of a side are indistinguishable from the three other like pairs , but are distinguishable from the two pairs formed by taking angular points at the extremities of a diagonal , which pairs again are undistinguisbable from each other .
Further , a pair , ab , may sometimes be distinguished from a pair , ha , though the units a and b are undistinguished .
Thus if , c , be the angular points of an equilateral triangle , and barbs be drawn on the sides pointing from a to b , from \amp ; to c , and from c to respectively , the angular points ' a , b , c will be undistinguished from each other , each has an arrow proceeding from it and to it ; but the pair ab is distinguished from the pair ba , for an arrow proceeds from to but none from b to a. ( 6 .
) It will be convenient to speak of ab and ba as different aspects of the collection of two units , a , b. Here the terms " aspect " and " collection " are each to be understood as referring to two separate units , and not to those units regarded in the aggregate as a single unit .
( 7 .
) Again we have also distinguished and undistinguished , tetrads , ... .
m-ads ... .
n-ads every m-ad being , of course , distinguished from every n-ad .
Just as we may have ab distinguished from ba , so we may have an n~ad .
... uv distinguished from qusvt ... .
rp .
Here pqrst . . . .
uv and qusvt ... .
rp will be termed , as in the case of pairs , different aspects of the collection Pt 2\gt ; t , 8 , t , ... .
u , v ; the term " collection " being understood to 1885 .
] A. General Theory of Mathematical Form , 395 refer to a number of separate units without reference to the various " aspects " of the collection .
Different aspects of the same collection of n units will be spoken of as different n-ads .
( 9 .
) Every collection of units has a definite due\#151 ; ( 1 ) to the number of its component units , and ( 2 ) to the way in which the distinguished and undistinguished units , pairs , triads , \amp ; c. , are distributed through the collection .
Two collections of the same number of units , but having different distributions will be of different forms .
The angular points of a cube and of an octagon furnish examples of two systems of eight units , having different distributions .
In the former case there are three sorts of pairs , in the latter four .
( 10 .
) Two collections which are undistinguished will be of the same form , but two collections which are of the same form are not necessarily undistinguished .
( 11 .
) Each of the forms which a system of n units can assume owing to varieties of distribution is one of a definite number of possible forms , and .
the peculiarities and properties of the collection depend , as far as the processes of reasoning are concerned , upon the particular form it assumes , and are independent of the dress\#151 ; geometrical , logical , algebraical , \amp ; c.\#151 ; in which it is presented ; so that two systems which are of the same form have precisely the same properties , although the garbs in which they are severally clothed may by their dissimilarity lead us to place the systems under very different categories , and even to regard them as belonging to " different branches pf science .
" ( 12 .
) It may seem in some cases that other considerations are involved besides " form , " but it will be found on investigation that the introduction of such considerations involves also the introduction of fresh units , and then we have merely to consider the form of the enlarged collection .
( 13 .
) In order to put form in evidence some " accidental " clothing is of course necessary ; if , however , we employ more than one species of clothing , each species being Uniform and suited to forms of every kind , the disturbing effect will be reduced to a minimum .
SS 14--17 .
Units .
The variety of the units which may be dealt with in an investigation is here indicated ; e.y. , we may have a material object dealt with as one unit , a quality of that object as another , a position it occupies in space as a third , and a statement about it as a fourth .
The difficulty of specifying the units considered is referred to , and cases are discussed in which mistakes are likely to occur .
Mr. A. B. Kempe .
[ June 18 j ' S S 18\#151 ; 24 .
Som Definitions .
A collection of units selected from a larger collection is termed a component of the latter .
A collection of units containing some units selected from each of a number of other collections is said to connect the latter .
There are other definitions which need not be referred to .
SS 25\#151 ; 36 .
Systems .
A collection of units which is such that every component unit is distinguished from every unit which is not a component is termed a system .
A single system is one in which all units are undistinguished .
" We have also double , treble , 8fc .
, systems .
The sections contain general observations about systems .
SS 37\#151 ; 49 .
Heaps\#151 ; Graphical Representation of TJnits .
We may graphically represent units by small circles of different colours , spots , \amp ; c. These are termed graphical units .
A large class of systems called heaps may be represented by means of these alone , without further graphical adjuncts .
A single heap is one which is graphically represented by graphical units all undistinguished from each other .
A discrete heap is one which is graphically represented by graphical units which are all distinguished from each other .
There are intermediate forms called 8fc .
, heaps .
SS 50\#151 ; 72 .
Pairs\#151 ; Graphical Representation .
The three different forms which pairs can assume are considered , viz. :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The two units a , 6 , may be distinguished from each other .
( 2 .
) The two units may be undistinguished but unsymmetrical , i.e. , db distinguished from ba .
( 3 .
) The two units may be undistinguished and symmetrical , i.e. , ab undistinguished from ba .
Certain modes are discussed of distinguishing pairs of graphical units , so as to make a graphical diagram represent a system the form of which depends upon pairs being distinguished .
These involve the use of plain lines , or " links , " joining pairs of graphical units ; also , where necessary , lines of various sorts , coloured , wavy , dotted , \amp ; c. ; and , where unsymmetrical pairs have to be represented , the use of barbs on the lines .
SS 73\#151 ; -83 .
Aspects .
These sections are devoted to a consideration of the real nature of aspects of collections of units , and of the units which are dealt with 1885 .
] A General Theory of Mathematical Form .
397 when two undistinguished aspects are regarded as corresponding unit \#166 ; to unit .
The possibility of representing any conceivable system by a diagram consisting of graphical units and plain lines , or links , only is .
ighown .
SS 84\#151 ; 86 .
Letters , their Sorts and Positions .
In arrays or other assemblages of letters each letter is of a particular sort , and occupies a position which is of a particular sort .
The | nature of the collections of units here dealt with is discussed , and they are shown to be the same as those considered in the case of aspects of systems in general .
SS 87\#151 ; 88 .
Representation of Aspects of Collections by Arrays of Letters .
Hence the propriety of doing that which is indicated by the heading of these sections .
S S 89\#151 ; 99 .
Elementary Properties of Aspects .
A variety of propositions about aspects are here given , which are needed in subsequent parts of the memoir .
Perhaps the most important is the following:\#151 ; " If abed ... .
is undistinguished from pqrs and if l , m , n , o I. ibe units other than a , b , c , d , . . .
, there must be units w , y , z , . . . .
other than p , q , r , s , . . . .
such that abed ... .
Imno ... .
is undistinguished from pqrs ... .
wxyz .
... " It iff pointed out that if any aspect of a whole system S be given , and all other aspects of S which are undistinguished from the given aspect , the form of S is completely determined .
SS 100\#151 ; 111 .
Tabular Representation of Systems .
Hence we get a simple and uniform method of representing any system , viz. , that of arranging the arrays of letters representing the undistinguished aspects one above another in rows , so that letters occupying " the same position " in the different rows all lie in the same column .
In the resulting table the order of the rows or columns is immaterial .
Various points about these tables are considered .
A table representing a single heap of n units will have | n rows ; and one representing a discrete heap of n units will have one row only .
In the case of any other form of a system of n units the number of rows will be intermediate between 1 and | n. SS 112-\#151 ; 129 .
Correspondences of Undistinguished Collections .
These sections go somewhat fully into the correspondences of undistinguished collections indicated by the tabular representation of a system .
The nature of the correspondences where two component 398 Mr. A. B. Kempe .
[ June 18 , systems of a double system are ind , is considered ; and the relation of the systems , which are such that one is derived from the other by ignoring differences , is discussed .
SS 130\#151 ; 136 .
, Sets are collections of units akin to systems ( which are always sets ) , but may differ from them in each being one only of a number of undistinguished sets .
SS 137\#151 ; 142 .
Aspects Unique with , respect to Collections .
If the aspects xyz ... .
abc ... .
and uvw ... .
... .
are undistinguished from each other , the aspects xyz ... .
and uvw ... .
may !
be said to be duplicates with respect to the collection a , b , ... If there is no duplicate of xyz ... .
with respect to a , b , c . . . .
, then xyz ... .
may be said to be unique with respect to . .
, .
SS 143\#151 ; 151 .
Associates .
( 16 .
) If a , b , c ... .
be any collection of units , and if X be another unit , such that the pairs \a , \b , Xc , . . . .
are distinguished from the pairs which X makes with units which are not components of the collection , then X may be said to be an associate of the collection a , b , c . . . .
... .
... .
Many of our conceptions and definitions of systems of units involve the idea of associates .
SS 152-\#151 ; 161 .
Unified Aspects , These are the units arrived at by regarding the aspects of collections as single units .
They are associates of the collections of which they are unified aspects , and are unique with respect to them .
SS 162\#151 ; 169 .
Correspondences of Collections which are distinguished but of like Forms .
The nature of these correspondences , and the relations which they bear , when regarded as units , to the units of the collections are considered .
SS 170\#151 ; 173 .
Replicas .
Two systems are replicas of each other when they are of the same form and bear precisely similar relations to all other collections of units .
SS 174\#151 ; 188 .
Independent and Related Systems .
The conditions which must be satisfied in order that systems may not be independent are here investigated , and systems which are factors of others are defined and discussed .
1885 .
] A General Theory of Mathematical Form .
SS 189\#151 ; 193 .
Three Modes of Compounding Systems .
These are selected as illustrative of the way in which certain forms can be derived from others .
SS 194\#151 ; 195 .
A General Method of Graphically representing a Complete System .
This is effected by the use of graphical units and links only .
( See SS 73\#151 ; 83 .
) SS 196\#151 ; 210 .
Networks .
We here turn to the consideration of systems of pairs , and the networks they compose .
SS 211\#151 ; 221 .
Chains .
A simple chain is a succession of undistinguished pairs , ah , cd , de ... .
It may be open , i.e. , having terminal units , or closed .
We may also have compound chains containing distinguished pairs .
The formation of equations by considering coterminous chains is shown .
SS 222\#151 ; 239 .
Groups\#151 ; Circuits .
In a group each unit is unique with respect to each of the others .
The pairs divide up into systems of closed simple chains called circuits .
Groups give rise to simple associative algebras . .
S.S 240\#151 ; 252 .
Groups containing from One to Twelve Units .
In these sections the graphical and tabular representations are given of air groups which have less than thirteen units .
SS 253\#151 ; 255 .
Some General Forms of Groups .
We have here merely some obvious generalisations of certain forms given under the preceding head .
SS 256\#151 ; 269 .
A Family of Groups .
The investigation contained in these sections was suggested by a paper by the late Professor Clifford " On Grassman 's Extensive Algebra .
" SS 270\#151 ; 274 .
Il-adic Groups .
These are such that the aspects of the component collections of R units , when regarded as units , compose a group .
( See SS 362\#151 ; 380 .
) SS 275\#151 ; 279 .
Substitutions .
In considering an array of n letters admitting of certain substitutions , we are considering a system of n units of a definite form .
400 A General Theory of Mathematical Form .
[ June 18 SS 280\#151 ; 312 .
Algebras .
The genesis of algebras is here treated of .
We have three systepip , replicas of each other , of which the units are respectively multipliers , multiplicands , and products .
We have also a system the units of which are primitive equations , such as ab=c , arrived at by regarding as units the triads of which one unit is a multiplier , one a multiplicand , and one a product .
We have another system , of which the units are primitive algebras , arrived at by regarding as units certain collections of primitive equations .
The derivation of compound algebras is considered , and the way in which algebras arise from special systems .
SS 313\#151 ; 327 .
Quadrates .
Quadrates are units of a special form of system which may be represented by n asterisks and n*\#151 ; n dots arranged in rows and n columns , there being n\#151 ; 1 dots and one asterisk in each row and each column , and the order of the rows and columns being immaterial .
Systems of this form give rise to every species of linear associative algebra .
Quadrates are considered by Professor Pierce in his annotations of his father 's memoir on " Linear Associative Algebras .
" SS 328\#151 ; 331 .
Isolated Collections\#151 ; Residuals-\#151 ; Satisfied Collections , SS 332\#151 ; 343 .
Some Isolated Triad Systems\#151 ; '.Family No. 1 .
SS 344\#151 ; 349 .
Some Isolated Triad Systems\#151 ; Family No. 2 .
We have here a discussion of some interesting systems composed of isolated collections , i.e. , collections which are such that each component unit is unique with respect to the rest of the collection .
Systems of Family No. 2 give rise to self-distributive algebras , i.e. , algebras such that a. be\#151 ; ah .
ac .
SS 350\#151 ; 351 .
Geometry in General .
In most geometrical investigations the units compose a system of a high order of multiplicity ; we have points , straight lines , conics , \amp ; c. , unified collections of these , operators such as quaternions , \amp ; c. , \amp ; g. It is , however , thought to be sufficient , for the purpose of illustration , to refer briefly to some comparatively simple systems .
SS 352\#151 ; 361 .
System of Points and Straight Lines .
We have here a double system .
The pairs connecting the two " 1885.1 Heat of Dissolution of Salts , systems are of two sorts , viz. , a point may lie on or off a line .
We may therefore graphically represent such a system by using two sorts of graphical units , a pair of which , one of each sort , are either connected by a link or not , according as the point represented by one lies on the line represented by the other or not .
The laws regulating the distribution of the links are stated , and the various forms which collections of three and four points and collections of three lines can assume are considered .
SS 362-\#151 ; 375 .
Co Points .
From the results of the sections under the preceding heading the form of a system of collinear points is deduced .
It is shown to be a triadic group .
The forms of tetrads of points of the system , both harmonic anti anharmonic , are discussed .
SS 376\#151 ; 380 .
Ordinary Algebra .
From the preceding sections we naturally pass to the ordinary .algebraic treatment of collinear points , and the nature of quantities .
SS 381\#151 ; 387 .
Coplanar Points and Lines .
These admit of discussion as a double system .
The distribution of the connecting pairs of the two systems is defined , and the algebraic treatment deduced .
SS 388\#151 ; 389 .
Coplanar Points , Lines , and Conics .
These sections refer briefly to the nature of the treble system composed .
of coplanar points , lines , and conics .
SS 390\#151 ; 426 .
Logic .
The memoir concludes with the consideration of the forms of systems of which the units are classes .
The investigation leads to a recognition of the fact that on certain points a modification of the views held by modern logicians is necessary .
IV .
4 ' On the Influence of Temperature on the Heat of Dissolution of Salts in Water .
" By William A. Tilden , D Sc. Lond. , F.R.S , Professor of Chemistry in the Mason College , Birmingham .
Received May 18 , 1885 .
# The experiments described in this paper were undertaken in the hope of obtaining some light upon the vexed question of the condition in which a solid exists when dissolved in a liquid , and were directed more especially towards the investigation of the well-known remarkable phenomena exhibited by sodium sulphate .

