XI .
Notice respecting a volcanic appearance in the Moon , in a Letter addressed to the President .
By Captain HENRY KATER F. R. S. Read February 8 , 1821 .
DEAR SIR , London , February 8tb , 821 .
IT may perhaps be interesting to the Royal Society to be informed , that on Sunday evening , the 4th instant , I observed a luminous spot in the dark part of the moon , which I was inclined to ascribe to the eruption of a volcano .
The telescope used was an excellent Newtonian of 6 ' inches aperture , with a power of 74 .
The moon was exactly two days old , and the evening so clear , that I was able to discern the general outlines in the dark part of her disk .
Her western azimuth was about 70 ?
, and her altitude about o degrees .
In this position at 6 hours 30 minutes , the volcano was situated ( estimating by the eye ) as in the accompanying sketch .
[ See Plate X.j Its appearance was that of a small nebula subtending an angle of about 3 or 4 seconds .
Its brightness was very variable ; a luminous point , like a small star of the 6th or 7th magnitude , would suddenly appear in its centre , and as suddenly disappear , and these changes would sometimes take place in the course of a few seconds .
On the evening of the 5th , having an engagement which prevented my observing it myself , I arranged the telescope for two friends , who remarked the same phenomena as the night before , but in an inferior degree , partly perhaps in consequence of the evening not being so favourable .
On the 6th I again observed it ; it had certainly become more faint , and the starlike appearance less frequent .
I could see it very distinctly with a power of 4o .
As the moon approached the'horizon , it was visible only at intervals when the star-like appearance took place .
On the same evening I had the pleasure of showing it to Mr. HENRY BROWNE , F. R. S. I regret that I had no micrometer adapted to mytelescope ; but I have reason to believe the distance of the volcano from the edge of the moon was about one tenth of her diameter , and the angle it formed this evening with a line joining the cusps was about 5o .
I remarked near the edge of the moon , -a welI known dark spot , from which the volcano was distant , as nearly as could estimate , three times its distance fro the edge of the moon .
In a map of the moon published by Dr. KITCHENER ( and which is the best small map with which I am acquainted ) , the is a mountain sufficiently near the situation of the volcano , to authorize the supposition that they may be identical , On the 7th I could still see the volcano , and the occasional star-like appearance ; but I do not think it was sufficiently perceptible to have been discovered by a person ignorant ofits precise situation .
I am inclined however to think , that the difficulty of seeing it is rather to be attributed to the a3s increased light of the moon , than to the diminished action of the volcano .
, : ^I ^have the hon-ourtbe , :Dear ; s ir , ~ % &amp;c. &amp;c. HENRY K4TER T -Sir Humphy Davy Bart. , P. R. S. &amp;c. P. S. Since the preceding letter was written , I have ascertained that the spot in which I observed the volcanic appearance is that named ARISTARCHUS .
This spot was particularly examined by HEVELIUs , who calls it Mons Porphyrites , and who considers it to be volcanic .
If his drawings are to be relied upon , it has undergone a considerable change in its appearance since his time .
Sir WILLIAM HERSCHEL has recorded in the Philosophical Transactions an observation of three volcanoes , which he perceived in the moon , April 19th , 1787 , at 1oh , 36 , sidereal time .
One of these , which he says showed " an actual eruption of fire or luminous matter , " was distant from the northern limb of the moon 3 .
57 " , , the diameter of the burning part being not less than 3 " .
I find that this observation was made about 9 o'clock in the evening , when the moon was not quite two days old ; and from the situation of the spot described by Sir WILLIAM HERSCHEL , I have no doubt of its being the same that I have noticed .

