54 [ Nov. 18 , Prof. W. C. Unwin .
goes band in band with the chemical changes which occnr .
From the spectroscopic appearance it is argued that the blue precipitated oxide is not a hydrate , but that it does very readily undergo change as the mere alteration of colour which takes place shows .
Aqueous solutions of the bromide and iodide of cobalt when acted on by alkalies undergo changes similar to those which the chloride undergoes , and , as in the former cases , the iodide spectrum is always nearer the red end of the spectrum than the corresponding bromide spectrum , and the bromide than the chloride spectrum .
The salts of the oxygen acids when in aqueous solution do not give sharp banded spectra as the haloid salts do , but only a large shading off absorption like the hydrate of the cobalt chloride .
The other points discussed in detail are , first , the nature of the-precipitate formed by the action of sodic or potassic carbonate on a cobaltous salt , and it is shown that the formation of the oxide always found in this precipitate is owing to an after decomposition , the precipitate as first formed being entirely free from all oxide , and it gradually appearing after a short time .
The other point is the action of heat on cobalt phosphate dissolved in fused microcosmic salt ; when cold there appears somewhat indistinctly a banded spectrum of a phosphate , on heating this the spectrum disappears , and the spectrum of the oxide very distinctly takes it place ; on cooling , the first spectrum returns , and this change may apparently be repeated any number of times .
Drawings of all the different spectra are given in the full paper .
IV .
" On the Friction of Water against Solid Surfaces of Different Degrees of Roughness/ ' By Professor W. G. Unwin , M.I.C.E. , Professor of Hydraulic Engineering at the Royal Indian Engineering College .
Communicated by J. H. Cotterill , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mechanics , Royal Naval College , Greenwich .
Received August 31 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments relate to the friction of fluids when flowing against rough solid surfaces .
It is well known that a board dragged through water suffers a resistance which , at speeds not very small , .
varies nearly as the square of the velocity .
The fluid surrounding the board does not behave as a solid , but shearing and eddying motions are set up , which give rise to losses of energy distributed throughout the fluid mass .
Most of the existing knowledge of fluid friction has been derived from the observation of the flow of water in pipes and canals .
But ixr 1880.J On the Friction of Water , 55 these cases , the motion of the fluid is complex , and the observations themselves are difficult .
The principal direct experiments on fluid friction are those of Coulomb and of the late Mr. W. Froude .
Coulomb 's experiments were made by oscillating a thin disk , suspended in the fluid by a wire , in its own plane .
The gradual diminution of the range of the oscillations gave a measure of work lost in fluid friction , on the surface of the disk .
Coulomb 's experiments were made at very low velocities , and , indeed , the method which he employed would be quite unsuitable for greater speeds of oscillation .
The results at which he arrived were these:\#151 ; ( a. ) The frictional resistance to the motion of the disk varied nearly as the velocity ; ( \amp ; .
) The friction was nearly independent of the roughness of the surface ; ( c. ) The friction was very much increased if the viscidity of the fluid was increased .
Mr. Froude 's experiments were made in a very different way .
He towed boards of lengths varying from 5 to 50 feet , in a still water canal , and measured by a spring dynamometer the resistance to the motion .
His experiments were all made at speeds much higher than those employed by Coulomb .
His results may be summarised thus:\#151 ; ( a. ) The friction varies nearly as the square of the velocity of the board , the precise index of the speed to which the friction is proportional depending on the nature of the surface of the board ; ( 6 .
) The frictional resistance per square foot of the surface of the board is greater for short than for long boards ; ( c. ) The frictional resistance varies very greatly with the roughness of the surface of the board .
The differences between the results of the experiments of Coulomb and Froude show that the phenomena of fluid friction at very low and at high speeds are essentially different .
It appeared to the author that it would be useful to make some experiments at speeds similar to those in Mr. Froude 's experiments , but with an apparatus on a smaller scale , which would , permit a greater variation of the conditions of the experiments .
A series of disks , of 10 inches to 20 inches in diameter , were rotated in water by an engine , and the resistance to continuous rotation at different speeds was measured .
Thus the experiments were virtually the same as Mr. Froude 's , but with a surface of infinite length substituted for surfaces of limited length .
The roughness of the surface of the disk was varied , the smoothest disks being of turned and polished brass ; the roughest having surfaces of sand and gravel cemented on to the metal disk .
The disks were rotated in a cylindrical chamber , the size of which could be varied , so that the mass of water operated on , or the thickness of the layer of water in contact with the disk , could be modified at will .
Further , the roughness of the surface of the chamber in which the disks were rotated was varied in the same way as the roughness of the disks themselves .
To determine the effect of the viscidity of the liquid in altering the amount of friction , experiments were made with F 2 1880 .
] On the Friction of Water , fyc .
containing the fluid .
Between the disk 0 and the outer cistern , however , is the light cylindrical copper chamber , AA , suspended by three fine wires from a crosshead , B. EE is a diaphragm , which could be moved up or down so as to alter the volume of water in the chamber in which the disk rotates .
K is a brake for regulating the speed of the disk .
W is the position of a counting arrangement for determining the speed of the disk .
G is a scale-pan in which weights were placed .
This was connected by a fine silk cord with an arc attached to the chamber AA .
The weight in this scale-pan exactly measures the tendency of the chamber AA to rotate , in consequence of the rotation of the fluid inside it .
But since action and reaction are equal , the tendency of the chamber AA to rotate is , when the motion is uniform , exactly equal to the friction of the surface of the disk , DD .
This method of measuring the friction of the disk , by measuring the reaction of the vessel containing it , was first used ( so far as the author is aware ) by Professor James Thomson .
A short note on some experiments made in this way was communicated by him to the Royal Society in 1855 , but the details of these experiments have never been published .
The principle is the same as that employed by Mr. Eroude , in his " Fluid Dynamometer .
" The general results of the experiments made with the apparatus described above are in striking numerical agreement with Mr. Eroude 's results , so far as the conditions of the experiments are similar .
But , from the small size of the apparatus , it has been possible to vary the conditions somewhat more than would be possible with the great canal of Mr. Eroude .
The results obtained may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The resistance of disks of different diameters , but similar in other respects , varies as the fifth power of the diameter nearly , or , more exactly , as the 4'85th power .
( 2 .
) The resistance varies with the roughness of the surface of the disk to an extent quite as great as in the experiments of Mr. Eroude .
( 3 .
) The friction increases in every case with the size of the chamber in which the disk is rotated .
This result was certainly unexpected .
Even if the increase of resistance is due to the increase of the surface of the chamber , this result indicates another marked difference between the phenomena of fluid friction at high and at low speeds .
At very low speeds the resistance would decrease considerably as the size of the chamber increased .
( 4 .
) Roughening the surface of the chamber in which the disk is rotated increases the resistance of the disk considerably ; in some cases the increase is as great as when the disk itself is roughened .
( 5 .
) The resistance of the disk at different speeds varies nearly as the square of the speed .
But the exact power of the speed to which the resistance is proportional varies a little for different surfaces .
The indices of the powers of the speed to which the resistance is proOn the Friction of Water , fyc .
[ Nov. 18 , portional are almost exactly the same for similar surfaces , in these experiments , as in Mr. Froude 's experiments .
( 6 .
) A series of experiments were made on the influence of the temperature of the water on the friction , and the author is not aware that any direct experiments on fluid friction , at different temperatures , have previously been made .
The experiments show that the friction diminishes rapidly with increase of temperature .
The alteration is so great that even five degrees variation of temperature alters the friction by about one per cent. ( 7 .
) When the viscidity of the fluid was increased by dissolving half a hundredweight of sugar in the water of the cistern , the frictional resistance of the disk was increased .
But the proportionate increase of resistance was much less than that observed by Coulomb , in a similar experiment at a very low velocity .
At the close of the Meeting Professor Graham Bell made experiments with his Photophone .

