On a new Fuzlminating Platinum .
By Edmund Davy , Esq. Professor of Chemistry , and Secretary to the Cork Institution .
Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read February 13 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 136 .
] After pointing out certain analogies between gold and platinum , which rendered it probable that the latter metal would afford a fulminating compound similar to that obtained from the former , Mr. Edmund Davy proceeds to detail the processes by which he succeeded in procuring it .
A solution of leaf platinum in nitro-muriatic acid was evaporated to dryness , re-dissolved in water , and precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen .
This hydro-sulphuret was converted into a sulphate by the action of nitrous acid .
Ammonia , in slight excess , was added to the solution of this sulphate , and the precipitate so obtained boiled in a solution of pure potash .
It was then collected on a filter , washed , and dried at 212 ? .
This powder is of a brown colour , explodes with a loud report when heated to about 400 ?
, and lacerates the substance in contact with it , in the same way as fulminating gold .
At a temperature of 300 ?
it is decomposed without explosion when in contact with mercury .
It explodes by friction , but not by percussion .
It is tasteless ; insoluble in water , soluble in sulphuric , nitric , and muriatic acids .
When heated in chlorine , muriate of ammonia and muriate of platinum are produced .
When heated in ammonia and in muriatic acid gas , it is decomposed ; and in the latter , with nearly the same phenomena as in chlorine .
Heated with sulphur , it affords sulphuret of platinum .
From the method pursued in obtaining this compound , the author inferred its resemblance to fulminating gold ; and on heating it in close vessels , obtained water , nitrogen , and platinum , as the results of its decomposition .
Heated with common quick-lime , it afforded liquid ammonia and a little nitrogen .
Mr. Edmund Davy next proceeds to a detail of experiments made in order to ascertain the relative proportions of the component parts of this new fulminating platinum .
In these experiments , 10 grains of the powder furnished 7-3 grains of metallic platinum .
In a fourth experiment , nitrous acid was boiled to dryness upon 10 grains of the powder .
The dry mass heated red-hot , furnished 8*25 grains of a gray shining substance , which is a hitherto undescribed oxide of platinum , consisting of 88 3 platinum + 11 7 oxygen .
From the quantity of nitrogen yielded during the decomposition of the fulminating platinum , and from other experiments , Mr. Davy estimates the quantity of ammonia that it contains , at 9 per cent. and gives as its component parts , 7875 platioxygen .
825 oxide of platinum .
9 00 ammonia .
8-50 water .
100-00 This paper concludes with some general and theoretical observations respecting the formation and decomposition of the new fulminating compound .
When the triple sulphate of platinum and ammonia is boiled in a solution of potash , the sulphuric acid unites to the potash , a portion of the ammonia is evolved , and the remainder , entering into intimate union with the oxide of platinum , produces fulminating platinum .
The theories invented by Bergmann and Berthollet , to explain the detonation of fulminating gold , are satisfactorily applicable to the phenomena presented by the compound now described , the explosive powers of which may be referred to the sudden extrication of nitrogen , ammonia , and aqueous vapour .

