5 1903 .
] Some Experiments in much of the internal organisation of Ferns , which were reproduced by means of seeds .
At present , the families Lyginodendrese and Medullosese may be placed , with little risk of error , in the new class , Pteridospermae .
" Some Experiments in Magnetism .
" By T , C. Porter .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received November 9 , \#151 ; Read November 26 , 1903 .
[ Plate 1 .
] For many years the writer has , from time to time , been engaged in studying the effect of a powerful magnetic field upon crystals in the act of their formation and growth .
It seemed to him probable that if the molecules of substances have magnetic poles , they might group themselves differently when under the influence of a powerful magnetic field , thus producing an orientation of the crystals , or even an alteration in the form or optical characteristics of the crystals themselves .
It seemed also possible that if the supposed polar properties of the molecules were the result of atomic polarity , a powerful external magnet might produce some appreciable effect in the chemical combination of the atoms , changing the rate of chemical reaction , if it did not change the character of the compounds formed .
Many effects were observed , and were at first erroneously attributed to the influence of magnetism ; later , when , by specially contrived apparatus , the influence of variation in temperature , humidity of the air , and above all of the history and character of the surfaces upon which the crystallisation took place , were investigated , these effects were one after another traced to causes other than magnetic , so that the results must , on the whole , be taken as negative .
Cases of orientation of crystals growing in the magnetic field and watched under the microscope from their first visibility till they had attained considerable size , such cases of orientation were found in two compounds of iron , but even these orientations were found to depend , at any rate in some cases , upon the direction in which the surface of the glass slide had been rubbed before cleaning for the experiment .
The main result of this long , difficult , and expensive research has only been to prove that if there be any such effects as those looked for , they require , to show them , more powerful fields than those of the very powerful electro-magnets used by the writer .
A photograph of the orientation of Marignac 's basic sulphate of ammonium and iron 3Fe203.5(NH4)20.12S03.18HoO is given with this paper .
6 .
v Mr. T. C. Porter .
[ Nov. 9 , This comparatively little known salt is formed by dissolving in 50 c.c. of water , say , 20 grammes of crystallised ferric ammonium sulphate ( iron alum ) , and adding drop by drop , with constant shaking , 2-33 c.c. of ammonia solution , sp. gr. 0-88 .
The mixture must be left to evaporate spontaneously , when it deposits hexagons of the very interesting pleo-chroic salt ; generally , some quantity of another basic iron salt is also formed .
Marignac 's salt , which is strongly magnetic , is also formed when a solution of iron alum evaporates spontaneously above a certain temperature , and the orientation has been , as a rule , more noticeable when the crystals have been deposited from an iron alum solution than when deposited from the solution first mentioned , probably because the rate of deposition from the alum has been very much slower .
Figs. 1 and 2 are photographs of the salt being deposited from a solution of ammonium iron alum by spontaneous evaporation on glass slides : fig. 1 in a powerful magnetic field , fig. 2 under conditions as like as possible to those of fig. 1 , but under the earth 's magnetism only .
Numerous trials have satisfied the writer that other conditions being the same , crystals of the alum and of Marignac 's salt form in the powerful magnetic field as readily as they do in the weak one .
The position of the magnet poles is not indicated on the photographs , but it will be seen that , in many obvious cases , where the hexagons rest on one of their prismatic sides , the principal axes of the hexagonal prisms are parallel ( to the magnetic lines of force ) .
Many of the crystals , however , if not most of them , are resting in their most stable position , viz. , on one of the hexagonal faces .
This is noteworthy , because if a crystal of the salt which has grown to a large size ( and away from the magnet ) be suspended by a thread of unspun silk attached to the centre of one of its prismatic faces by a minute morsel of wax , between the blunt poles of the electro-magnet , it sets itself in exactly the same position as the orientated crystals in the photograph , viz. , with its principal axis parallel to the lines of force .
When the same crystal is suspended from the centre of one of its hexagonal faces , it sets itself with the planes of an opposite pair of the prismatic faces perpendicular to the lines of force , so that if in figs. 1 and 3 the visible hexagons are orientated , they should be disposed with a pair of opposite sides perpendicular to the lines of force , and therefore parallel to the longest sides of the rectangles which are the observer 's view of the hexagonal crystals resting on one of their prismatic sides .
There are certainly signs of some of the hexagons being thus orientated , but since there are notable exceptions , and , moreover , since there are six positions favourable to an orientation hypothesis in one complete revolution of the crystal in its own plane , one cannot say definitely whether they are orientated or not .
T. C. Porter .
Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ml .
73 , Plate 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
1903 .
] Some Experiments Magnetism .
For some time the writer regarded these results , and many others of the same kind obtained from the same salt , as clear indications that these crystals are orientated from their earliest growth , since very few ever changed their position unless the crystals were crowded , and that the molecule , or the crystal element , is magnetic , but he has failed again and again to obtain any indication of orientation with the same strongly magnetic salt , under what were , so far as could be judged , similar circumstances , and lastly , by wiping the glass slide in a given direction , he found it possible to produce a species of orientation in other directions .
The very fact that the orientation in these photographs is such that the length of the rectangles lies parallel to the length of the microscope slide , which is presumably the direction in which it is most often wiped or dusted , makes him the more unwilling to accept the photographs as evidence of any magnetic effect , but he feels it only wise to point out that the orientation produced by scratches has never in his experience produced quite the effect seen this photograph , the grouping of the crystals has been different , leaving no difficulty in tracing the line which gave rise to the orientation , whereas on these photographs this is scarcely possible ; the distribution of the orientated crystals themselves is not linear .
So that , in the mind of the writer , in spite of the arguments adduced , and the fact that no such clear case of orientation as that shown has been observed with any other substance except the corresponding potassium salt ( although very many have been tried ) , it is still an open question whether the orientation visible in fig. 1 is , or is not , due to magnetism .
After these experiments made at ordinary temperatures , the writer turned his attention to the formation of well-known magnetic bodies in the magnetic field .
Flowers of sulphur and levigated soft iron particles were taken in the proportion in which they combine to form the magnetic sulphide of iron FesS4 , and were thoroughly mixed together .
The mixture was poured into a small paper tube , loosely corked at the lower end , and this tube was placed vertically between the poles of a powerful electro-magnet , arranged so that the tube stood parallel to the lines of force between the poles , the last being bored , and the little tube standing in the position of the heavy glass in Faraday 's celebrated experiment .
The current was then switched on , and , at the same time a flame was applied to the mixture where it projected into the air at the top of the tube .
As soon as the iron and sulphur began to combine , the flame was withdrawn , and the wave of combination descended right through the mixture .
The current through the magnet coils was maintained until the tube had had time to cool ; the latter was then removed , the paper carefully taken off , disclosing a fairly tough rod of sulphide .
This was found to be a magnet , weak , but unmistakable , its poles being disposed as one would naturally expect .
Similar experiments were then made with mixtures of iron Mr. T. C. Porter .
[ Nov. 9 , and sulphur in the proportions necessary to the sulphides FeS , Fe2S3 , and FeS2 .
In each experiment two tubes of the mixture were made , one for the magnet , and one to be fired at a distance from the magnet ; this was done to find out whether there were any persistent differences , other than magnetic , between the two .
The mixture for FeS2 refused to burn in both the tubes , as indeed might have been expected .
The polarity of the Fe2S3 bar was decided , that of the FeS distinct , though very weak .
In every case the magnetised bars have remained unmistakable magnets , but this may be due to part of the soft iron remaining uncombined , or possibly to the formation of small quantities of magnetite from the air between the particles of the powder at starting .
The bars were powdered very finely , and their specific gravity taken , with the results shown in the table given in the addenda .
It is scarcely necessary to point out that though there is no doubt that one or more of the compounds FeS , Fe3S4 , and Fe2S3 was really formed , we do not know the proportion of each present in each case .
Probably the products were purer in the first and last cases .
The specific gravities were taken with all care , and the first two places of decimals are reliable ; the powders were thoroughly well mixed , and the experiments were made from the same samples of mixture , in similar tubes .
The writer hopes to repeat them , and will not comment at present on the differences of density in the magnetised and unmagnetised products .
Similar experiments were next tried with the magnetic oxide of iron Fe304 .
( a ) By allowing a considerable quantity of the levigated iron to form a thick chain between the solid conical poles of the electromagnet , and pressing them together until they formed a dense mass between the poles , and then burning them situ , in one experiment with the flame of an ordinary Bunsen burner , and in another by that of an oxy-coal gas flame , blowing on the still very hot mass with pure oxygen to complete the oxidation as far as possible ; in both cases the resulting mass of magnetic oxide was of very marked polarity .
( b ) By placing between the poles of the electro-magnet , so that its upper surface was in the strongest part of the field , a charcoal block , having cut in it , parallel to the lines of magnetic force , a shallow groove , which was filled with previously prepared magnetic oxide , and whilst the current traversed the magnet coils , fusing these fragments into one bar , by means of the oxy-gas blow-pipe , afterwards blowing on the still white hot mass with pure oxygen .
On cooling the mass and testing it , it proved distinctly polar , but far less so than in the experiments ( a ) .
In this experiment the oxide had been heated to a brilliant whiteness , and cooled somewhat quickly by being wetted with water .
These experiments seem to prove that it is possible to prepare in -1^03 j Some Experiments in Magnetism .
this way , and quickly , artificial lodestones of some strength , for the products * of the ( a ) experiments were able to pick up small pieces of soft iron .
Thinking that in these cases part , at any rate , of the polarity might be due to particles of the levigated iron which had escaped combination with either the sulphur or the oxygen , the writer next attempted to make a magnet out of the particles of levigated iron themselves .
This was done by half filling a small test tube with solid paraffin , melting it , loosely corking the tube , and placing it in a horizontal position until the paraffin had solidified .
The remaining air space , of semicircular section , was then filled with the levigated iron , the tube again corked , and placed horizontally through the bored poles of the electro-magnet ; the current was switched on , and whilst the tube was in position , with the iron uppermost in the tube , the paraffin below it was melted by cautiously heating it with a Bunsen .
As the paraffin melted , the tube being gently tapped meanwhile , the iron particles were for the time capable of small movements , arranging themselves along the lines of force .
The paraffin was then allowed to solidify and grow cool , the current being maintained the while , the tube removed and the glass gently peeled off , by first cutting it round with a diamond , leaving a bar of soft iron particles embedded in paraffin , which was a magnet , and has remained so ever since , without showing any signs of losing its magnetism , and sufficiently strong to develop tufts at either pole when dipped into a heap of the levigated iron .
As it still seemed possible that the permanent polarity of this magnet might be due to carbon in it , which it certainly contained , though in very small quantity , it seemed well to try a similar experiment with particles of pure electrolytic iron , and to try it with molecules of the iron instead of assemblages of molecules , already under the influence of forces opposing the development of the magnetic polarity , and these considerations at once suggested that the iron should be deposited electrolytic-ally from the solution of one of its compounds in a powerful magnetic field on some " non-magnetic " substance , such as platinum .
The photograph shows the arrangement actually used , and , which it may be stated at once , proved entirely successful .
The apparatus consisted of the electro-magnet , with two special pole pieces , designed to concentrate the magnetic lines of force into a space of length , the distance between them ; of height , the height of the pole pieces as shown , and of thickness one-eighth of an inch .
The poles thus tapered to what may be called blunt vertical line .
Between the poles is the glass cell , in the centre of which hangs the strip of platinum foil , previously proved to have no visible effect upon a magnet , so that its plane is in the paramagnetic position , the platinum approaching close to the sides of the Mr. T. 0 .
Porter .
[ Nov. 9 , glass vessel , but not touching them .
Two pieces of platinum foil , about 3 inches long and f inch wide , hang at each end of the glass vessel , facing the central strip on both its sides ; the central strip is the cathode , on which the iron is deposited , the other two being the anodes .
The current having been switched on to the coils , and the single Groves ' cell used , to the electrodes , the iron solution is poured in , till it reaches as high as the top of the pole pieces .
After three minutes there was a discoloration of the platinum from the thin film of iron formed upon it , and on testing this , by withdrawing it from the solution and applying it edgeways to a rather heavy compass needle , by no means delicately mounted , it was found to give distinct evidence of polarity , the repulsion and attraction being most clearly visible , and on tearing off a strip of the platinum along its base , and drying it and balancing it on a fine sewing needle , it quickly set itself in the magnetic meridian , and has continued to do so with apparently equal activity ever since , although the film of iron must be exceedingly thin .
The main portion of the strip was replaced in the solution , and the deposition of the iron continued , its polarity being tested from time to time .
Its magnetic intensity increased , though certainly at a diminishing rate .
Finally , when all the iron in the solution had been deposited the platinum was taken out , washed with distilled water , the part covered with iron torn off ( so that it did not touch any other iron ) and put into dry air for preservation .
It has remained a magnet ever since , and as yet gives no sign of diminished intensity , though it has been made to vibrate , and hit with a wooden rod repeatedly .
The whole experiment has been repeated , with the same results.* If during the deposition the platinum be reversed , side for side , after a certain time the iron deposited shows no polarity , and after that its polarity is reversed .
Whether this is due to the reversal of polarity in the molecules first deposited , as well as to the deposition upon them of molecules having opposite polarity , or to the latter cause only* the writer has not yet determined , nor has it been possible in this paper to give measurements either of the magnetic intensities , or of the thickness of the thinnest film of pure electrolytic iron wkich is capable of making its polarity felt ; nor again is it yet possible to say how long the polarity of these artificial magnets will continue .
Answers to these questions , by the very nature of the investigation , must be left for a future communication .
The solution from which the iron was deposited is constituted as follows:\#151 ; 20 grammes FeSO^N^^SCb .
OHA ) , 64 grammes ( NH4)2C204.H20 .
Made up to 960 c.c. with distilled water .
* The writer wras unaware at the time that a similar experiment had been made by Beetz , and quoted by Maxwell .
2903 .
] Some Experiments in Magnetism .
This solution is used for the quantitative estimation of iron by-electrolysis , and though carbon is present in the oxalate , the deposited iron is soluble in dilute hydrogen chloride , without any visible residue , being pure to all chemical tests , but for possibly occluded hydrogen .
Addenda : November 24 , 1903 .
( 1 ) .
It should be stated that when the crystals growing in a powerful magnetic field , and apparently orientated as described and shown in the photograph , become large , and thus approach each others ' surfaces , they are often seen to leave their first position and to take up another ; sometimes the crystal will be moved bodily nearer its neighbour , sometimes it is swung round only ; but it follows that where the crystals are numerous and close together , the signs of orientation , which were evident during the early stages of their growth , have almost , if not quite , disappeared at a later stage .
( 2 ) .
Some experiments were carried out early in the investigation in weak magnetic fields , and also in a field of as nearly zero intensity as could be managed , by compensating the earth 's field , but no difference between these could be detected with any certainty , though in most cases as many as six crystallisations were carried on at one time , three in the strong field and three in a weak or zero field .
( 3 ) .
When it was found that the direction in which the glass slides used had been rubbed ( before they were finally cleaned with acid , alkali , and distilled water ) was not in all cases negligible , experiments were made in which the glass had been purposely rubbed hard in different directions , with the result already stated , but in no case was the orientation or arrangement of the crystals the same in appearance as that shown in the photograph , for they formed close together along the lines .
The strongest argument , in the writer 's opinion , against a magnetic explanation of the orientation in the photograph , is his repeated failure to obtain the same result under what were apparently precisely similar circumstances , and also the fact that no other substance has given similar indications , at any rate , such evident indications of orientation , though very many have been tried .
( 4 ) .
Since the paper was sent in , a number of experiments have been made on the densities of the substances produced by " firing " the small " squibs " of the mixtures of iron and sulphur described in the paper , with the results embodied in the following statement .
The quantities taken were in most cases between 4 and 2'5 grammes , and the weighings were certainly correct to milligrammes ; the greatest error possible in any single estimation of density does not exceed \#177 ; 002 , and is probably less than 0'005 .
All the bars fired in the strong magnetic field are magnets , those in the earth 's field are not perceptibly so , though they may possess very weak polarity .
Some Experiments in Magnetism .
[ Nov. 9 , Mixture in the proportion \lt ; )f Fe + S. 3Fe + 4S .
2Fe + 3S .
Magnet .
Away from magnet .
Magnet .
Away from magnet .
Magnet .
Away from magnet .
4-455 4 593 4-229 4-364 4-358 4-179 4-581 4-710 4-519 4-301 4-443 4-565 4-763 4-579 4 -394 4 -420 4-377 4-506 4 -648 4 -407* 4 -703* 4-653 Mean of 3 Mean of 5 Mean of 3 Mean of 3 Mean of 3 Mean of 3 experiments .
experiments .
experiments .
experiments .
experiments experiments .
4 -600 | 4*637 4-381 4 -362 4-393 4-417 Two experiments were made to find out how the density varied in any one bar .
The mixtures used were the second and third of the above three ; each was placed in a tube more than twice the length of those used in the experiments already described , and both were fired separately in the strong magnetic held , the tubes passing right through the bored poles of the magnet , the distance between the poles being 1 inch .
The rod formed was broken into three portions , called the top , middle , and bottom respectively .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; 3Fe + 4S ... top , 4-384 ; middle , 4*533 ; bottom , 4'305 ; mean , 4-407 .
2Fe+ 3S ... " 4*664 " .4*718 ; " 4-728 ; " 4-703 .
My thanks are due to Mr. K. W. Kennedy for help in the determination of the densities .
* The tube used in these experiments was much longer than in the others .

