The Physiology of the Stapes , one of the Bones of the Organ of Hearing ; deduced from a comparative View of its Structure and Uses in different Animals .
By Anthony Carlisle , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 4 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 198 .
] The bones of the organ of hearing , or ossicula auditus , in man and in the mammalia , form , Mr. Carlisle says , a series of conductors , whose office seems limited to the conveyance of sounds received through the medium of air ; no parts corresponding to such bones being found in fishes .
In two of the classes of animals , however , namely , birds , and the amphibia of Linnwus , there is only one ossicle of the tympanum , which is in the situation of the stapes .
Mr. Carlisle then proceeds to give a minute description of the human ossicula auditus , especially of the stapes .
This description we shall pass over , that we may be the more particular in our account of the varieties observed in the last-mentioned bone in other animals .
The configuration of the stapes , or indeed of the lw4other ossicles , is not governed , Mr. Carlisle says , by the form , habits , or voice of the animal , except in those mammalia which inhabit the waters , such as the seal , the walrus , and the whale tribe : in these the stapes is more massive ; but in the otter , which only dives occasionally , the stapes does not differ from that of the fox .
In the tiger , the dog , and other ferze , the crura are straight , and meet in an acute angle ; but the same figure occurs in the horse , in the beaver , in the goat , and in many other herbivorous quadrupeds .
In the cete , the muscle of the stapes pulls the capitulum at such an angle , as very much to depress its subjacent end into the fenestra vestibuli ; and the joint appears capablle of considerable motion .
In the walrus , this ossicle is entirely solid : in the seal , and in the cete , the bone has only a small perforation instead of the crural arch .
Mr. Carlisle has discovered a very remarkable singularity in the stapes of the marmot , and in that of the guinea-pig .
In those animals , the bone is formed of slender crura , constituting a rounded arch : through this arch an osseous bolt passes , so as to rivet it to its situation .
This bolt , to which Mr. Carlisle has given the name of Pessulus , is placed near the top of the arch , so that , by the action of the stapedeus muscle , the upper part of the straight crus is brought into contact with the pessulus .
The use of this mechanism is not obvious , there being nothing in these animals , excepting their shrill whistle , peculiarly different from others which are destitute of such mechanrism .
In the kanguroo , the stapes is like the corresponding ossicle in birds , called Columella .
In the two species of Ornithorhynchus ( paradoxus and hystrix ) , this resemblance to the columella is still more striking , and forms an additional point of similarity between these singular quadrupeds and birds .
These columell ; e are articulated to a small bone , which performs the office of the manubrium of the malleus ; whereas , in birds , the capitulum of the columella is slightly expanded , and is joined to a triangular plate of cartilage attached to the membrana tympani .
In some birds , a small foramen occurs in the middle of this plate .
The amphibia are provided with columelle similar to those of birds ; but the cartilage is united to the under surface of the true skin , without any apparent application of muscles to alter its tension .
From the preceding circumstances , Mr. Carlisle is led , he says , to the following conclusions : In man , and in most of the mammalia , the figure of the stapes is an accommodation to that degree of lightness which seems a requisite condition ; and that bone is especially designed to press on the fluid contained in the labyrinth ; the ultimate effect of which pressure is , an increase of the tension of the membrane closing the fenestra cochleae .
There does not , in Mr. Carlisle 's opinion , appear to exist any motion between the ossicula auditus that bears any relation to the peculiar vibration of sounds .
He rather conceives , that the different motions of these bones only affect the membrana tympani , so as to lessen the intensity of violent impulses .
Sounds of less impetus , -not requiring such modulation , are transmitted( by the vibrations of the integrant parts of these bones , unaccompanied by muscular action .
This reasoning , Mr. Carlisle says , is suggested by the columellse in the aves and amphibia ; for , since many birds accurately imitate a variety of sounds , it may be inferred that they hear as acutely and as distinctly as mankind .
The muscles of the ossicula auditus appear to be of the involuntary kind ; their peculiar stimulus is sound , and the chorda tympani is a gangliated nerve .
If the above supposition is true , the muscles may be considered as all acting together ; especially as it is well known that some persons who hear imperfectly are more sensible to sounds when in a noisy place ; as if the muscles were then excited to action .
It cannot , Mr. Carlisle thinks , be allowed , that the pressure of the watery fluid in the labyrinth is necessary to produce the sensation of hearing , since birds hear without any such mechanism : such pressure , however , would give increased tension to the fenestra cochlee ; and , as the membrane of that fenestra is exposed to the air contained within the cavity of the tympanum , it appears adapted to receive such sounds as pass through the membrana tympani , without exciting consonant motions in the ossicula auditus .
In order to investigate the truth of the above opinions , Mr. Carlisle had water , at the temperature of his body , dropped from a small vial into the meatus externus , the tragus being previously pulled towards the cheek .
The first drop produced a sensation like the report of distant cannon ; and the same effect succeeded each drop until the cavity was filled .
In this experiment the vibrations of the membrana tympani must , he says , have been impaired , if not destroyed ; yet the motions of the membrane produced by each drop of water affected the air contained in the tympanum , sufficiently to produce a sensible impression .
That something like this occurs in many kinds of sounds , is , Mr. Carlisle thinks , more than probable ; and as the cochlea consists of two hollow half cones , winding spirally , and uniting at their apices , it follows that the sounds affecting either of the cones must pass from the wide to the narrow end ; and the tension of the parts , in either case , will necessarily aid the impression .

