On certain parts of the Theory of Railways $ with an investigation of the formulae necessary for the determination of the resistances to the motion of carriages upon them , and of the power necessary to work them .
By the Rev. Dionysius Lardner , LL. D. , F.R.S. The author observes , in his prefalory remarks , that an extensive and interesting field of mathematical investigation has been recently opened in the mechanical circumstances relative to the motion of heavy bodies on railways 5 and having collected a body of experiments and observations sufficient to form the basis of a theory , be purposes , 2o 3S6 in the present paper , to lay before the Society a series of mathematical formulae , embodying the most general expressions for the phenomena of the motion of carriages on these roads .
The author begins by investigating the analytical formulae for the traction of trains over a level line which is perfectly straight , and finds , first , the distance and time within which , with a given amount of tractive power , the requisite speed may be obtained at starting ; and also the point where the tractive power must be suspended , pre ?
vious to coming to rest .
The excess of tractive power necessary toget up the requisite speed is shown to be equal to the saving of tractive power previous to a stoppage ; and formulae are given for the determi ?
nation of the time lost under any given conditions at each stop .
The motion of trains in ascending inclined planes which are straight , is next considered ; and formulae are given combining the effects of friction and gravity , in opposition to the tractive force .
The circumstances which affect every change of speed , and the excess of tractive force necessary , in such cases , to maintain the requisite speed , are determined - , as well as the other circumstances already stated with respect to level planes .
The friction of trains upon descending planes is next investigated ; and an important distinction is shown to exist between two classes of planes ; viz. , those whose acclivities are inferior to the angle of repose , and those of more steep acclivities .
A remarkable relation is shown to exist between the tractive forces in ascending and descend ?
ing the first class of planes .
For descending planes of greater acclivity than the angle of repose , the use of breaks becomes essentially re ?
quisite .
The effect of these contrivances is investigated , as well as the motion of trains on the accidental failure of breaks .
In any attempts which have been hitherto made to obtain the actual velocities acquired by trains of carriages or waggons under these circumstances , an error has been committed which invalidates the precision of the results - , the carriages having been treated as sledges moving down an inclined plane .
The author has here given the analytical formulae by which the effect of the rotatory motion of the wheels may be brought into computation - , this effect , depending obviously on the amount of inertia of the wheels , and on the proportion which their weight bears to the weight of the waggon .
The properties investigated in this first division of the paper , are strictly those which depend on the longitudinal section of the line , presumed to be straight in every part of its direction .
There is , however , another class of important resistances which depend on the ground-plan of the road , and these the author next proceeds to determine .
The author then gives the analytical formulae which express the resistance arising , ?
first , from the inequality of the spaces over which the wheels , fixed on the same axle , simultaneously move ; secondly , from the effort of the flanges of the wheels to change the direction of the train ; and thirdly , from the centrifugal force pressing the flange against the side of the rail .
He also gives the formulae necessary to determine , in each case , the actual amount of pressure produced by a given velocity and a given load , nnd investigates the extent to which these resistances may be modified by laying the outer rail of the curve higher than the inner .
He assigns a formula for the determination of the height which must be given to the outer rail , in order to remove as far as possible all retardation from these causes ; which formula is a function of the speed of the train , the radius of the curve , and the distance between the rails .
In the latter part of the paper , the author investigates the method of estimating the actual amount of mechanical power necessary to work a rail way , the longitudinal section and ground-plan of which are given .
In the course of this investigation he arrives at several conclusions , which , though unexpected , are such as necessarily arise out of the mechanical conditions of the inquiry .
The first of these is , that all straight inclined planes of a less acclivity than the angle of repose , may be mechanically considered equivalent to a level , provided the tractive power is one which is capable of increasingand diminishing its energy , within given limits , without loss of effect .
It appears , however , that this condition does not extend to planes of greater acclivities than the angle of repose j because the excess of power required in their ascent is greater than all the power that could besaved in their descent ; unless the effect of accelerated motion in giving momentum to the train could properly be taken into account .
In practice , however , this acceleration cannot be permitted ; and the uniformity of the motion of the trains in descending such acclivities must be preserved by the operation of the break .
Such planes are therefore , in practice , always attended with a direct loss of power .
Inthe investigation of the formula ?
expressive of the actual amount of mechanical power absorbed in passing round a curve , it is found that this amount of power is altogether independent of the radius of the curve , and depends only on the value of the angle by which the direction of the line on the ground-plan is changed .
This result , which was likewise unexpected , is nevertheless a sufficiently obvious consequence of the mechanical conditions of the question .
If a given change of direction in the road be made by a curve of large radius , the length of the curve will be proportionably great ; and although the intensity of the resistance to the tractive power , at any point of the curve , will be small in the same propoition as the radius is great , yet the space through which that resistance acts will be great in proportion to the radius : these two effects counteract each other ; and the result is , that the total absorption of power is the same .
On the other hand , it the turn be made by a curve of short radius , the curve itself will be proportionately short ; but the intensity of the resistance will be proportionately great .
In this case , a great resistance acts through a short space , and produces an absorption of power to the same extent as before .
In conclusion , the author arrives at one general and comprehensive formula for the actual amount of mechanical power necessary to work the line in both directions ?
involving terms expressive , first , of the ordinary friction of the road ; secondly , of the effect of inclined planes , or gradients , as they have been latterly called - , and , thirdly , of the 2g effect of curves involving changes of direction of the road , the velocity of the transit , and the distance between the rails ; but , for the reason already stated , not comprising the radii of the curves .
Although the radii of the curves do not form a constant element of the estimate of the mechanical power necessary to work the road , nevertheless they are of material consequence , as far as regards the safety of the transit .
Although a short curve with a great resistance may be moved over with the same expenditure of mechanical power as a long curve with a long radius , yet , owing to the intensity of the pressure of the flange against the rail , the danger of the trains running off the road is increased : hence , although sharp curves cannot be objected to on the score of loss of power , they are yet highly objectionable on the score of danger .
In the present paper , the author has confined himself to the ana ?
lytical formulae expressing various mechanical effects of the most general kind ; the coefficients and constants being expressed merely by algebraical symbols : but he states that he has made an extensive se ?
ries of experiments within the last few years , and has also procured the results of experiments made by others , with a view to determine the mean values of the various constants in the formulae investigated in this paper .
He has also , with the same view , made numerous observations in the ordinary course of transit on railways 5 and he announces his intention of soon laying before the Society , in another paper , the details of these experiments , and the determination of the mean values of these various constants , without which the present investigation would be attended with little practical knowledge .

