II .
The reading of Mr. Lockyer 's Paper , " Spectroscopic Observation of the Sun , No. II .
, " was resumed and concluded .
( Abstract .
) THE author , after referring to hisi ineffectual attempts since 1866 to observe the spectrum of the prominences with an instrument of small dispersive powers , gave an account of the delays which had impeded the construction of a larger one ( the funds for which were supplied by the Government-Grant Committee early in 1867 ) , in order that the coincidence in time between his results and those obtained by the Indian observers might not be misinterpreted .
Details are given of the observations made by the new instrument , which was received incomplete on the 16th of October .
These observations include the discovery , and exact determination of the lines , of the prominencespectrum on the 20th of October , and of the fact that the prominences are merely local aggregations of a gaseous medium which entirely envelopes the sun .
The term Chromosphere is suggested for this envelope , in order to distinguish it from the cool absorbing atmosphere on the one hand , and from the white light-giving photosphere on the other .
The possibility of variations in the thickness of this envelope is suggested , and the phenomena presented by the star in Corona are referred to .
It is stated that , under proper instrumental and atmospheric conditions , the spectrum of the chromosphere is always visible in every part of the sun 's periphery ; its height , and the dimensions and shapes of several prominences , observed at different times , are given in the paper .
One prominence , 3 ' high , was observed on the 20th October .
Two of the lines correspond with Fraunhofer 's C and F ; another lies 8 ?
or 9 ?
( of Kirchhoff 's scale ) from D towards E. There is another bright line , which occasionally makes its appearance near C , but slightly less refrangible than that line .
It is remarked that the line near D has no corresponding line ordinarily visible in the solar spectrum .
The author has been led by his observations to ascribe great variation of brilliancy to the lines .
On the 5th of November a prominence was observed in which the action was evidently very intense ; and on this occasion the light and colour of the line at F were most vivid .
This was not observed all along the line visible in the field of view of the instrument , but only at certain parts of the line which appeared to widen out .
The author points out that the line F invariably expands ( that the band of light gets wider and wider ) as the sun is approached , and that the C line and the D line do not ; and he enlarges upon the importance of this fact , taken in connexion with the researches of Pliicker , Hittorf , and Frankland on the spectrum of hydrogen-stating at the same time that he is engaged in researches on gaseous spectra which , it is possible , will enable us to determine the temperature and pressure at the surfaces of the chromosphere , and to give a full explanation of the various colours of the prominences which have been observed at different times .
The paper also refers to certain bright regions in the solar spectrum itself .
Evidence is adduced to show that possibly a chromosphere is , under certain conditions , a regular part of star-economy ; and the outburst of the star in Corona is especially dwelt upon .

