XI .
On the mode of formation of the canal for containing the spinal marrow , and on the form of the fins ( if they deserve that name ) of the Proteosaurus .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart V. UP .
R. S. Read May 4th , 1820 .
THE last communication respecting the bones of the Proteo saurus which I laid before the Royal Society , contained so many important facts connected with the skeleton , that there was no room left to hope , I should ever again call the attention of its members to this subject .
Yet such has been the exertion made by some persons employed by Colonel BIRCH , to explore the cliffs at Lyme , in search of fossil organic remains , from an expectation that they will receive the full reward of their labours , that many new specimens have been lately collected ; in one of these which Colonel BIRCH has submitted to my observation , several bones are met with that have not been described , and which give a very important character to the vertebrae , and also form a more complete set of the bones of the fin .
Of these I shall give a description , where their appearance is not sufficiently illustrated by the annexed Plate , ( P1 .
XV .
) Although the bodies of the vertebrae of this animal have been more frequently met with than any other bones , the manner in which the canal for the spinal marrow is formed , has not till now been made out .
In this specimen we find in what manner that is done , and in this as well as in many other particulars , the skeleton differs from that of other animals .
In all the lizard tribe , the vertebrae , like those of other quadrupeds , consist of a body , two transverse , and one spinous process , surrounding a central hole , which forms the spinal canal ; the vertebrae of the different tribes of Proteus have the same structure , as is shown in a Plate annexed to my former Paper upon that subject .
In cartilaginous fishes , the mechanism is very different ; the bodies of the vertebrae , properly speaking , form the spinal column ; and the canal for the spinal marrow is surrounded by separate cartilages , united to the vertebrae , by projections fitted to corresponding notches in the side of each vertebra .
Through the whole length of the tail , a similar canal is formed upon the under edge of the vertebrae , in which are contained and defended from injury , the great artery and vein .
In the fossil remains of the shark tribe , the bodies of these vertebrae are very frequently met with , and have hitherto been readily distinguished from all others by these peculiarities .
The structure of the vertebrae of the Proteosaurus , is something intermediate between the two kinds which I have described .
It is composed of bone , as in the lizard tribe , but consists of a body only , behind which is a canal for the spinal marrow , and the spinous process with two lateral branches which belong to it , quite distinct from the body of the vertebra , and between these there is no bony union , but a species of joint peculiar to themselves ; the canal thus formed , defends the spinal marrow from injury , equally as when the whole vertebra is in one piece ; it is unusually small .
The of the Proteosaurus .
6 , bodies of these vertebra , when met with without the spinous processes , have so close a resemblance to the vertebrae of the shark in a fossil state , that they have till now been mistaken for them ; and I found several of them preserved in the HUNTERIAN Collection , marked as belonging to that fish .
The particular structure which I have endeavoured to describe , will be more readily understood by a reference to the annexed Plate , ( PI .
XV .
) in which it is very accurately represented .
In the same figure in which the manner of setting on the spinous process to the vertebra is shown , there is ( what I have never before met with ) , one of the feet paddles or fins , ( for it is difficult to say which of these names is the most proper ) , in which the bones are nearly complete ; for although some of the smallest are wanting , there are quite enough to give a tolerably exact figure of the outline ; of this no other specimen has afforded the most distant idea .
This outline certainly has more resemblance to that of a fin , than to any of the fore feet of the tribe of lacerta , or the seal , or even the turtle ; and , what is the most remarkable circumstance , there is nothing in any way correspondent to the thumb , or claw for laying hold , which distinguishes the animals that occasionally inhabit the sea , and come ashore for the purpose of laying their eggs , or depositing their young .
It certainly has the appearance of a fin ; but if in future it is to be designated under that name , it is always to be understood that this fin , contrary to every thing hitherto known in nature , is made up of bony materials ; and it is from the great number of bones of which it is composed , and the correspondent number of joints by which these bones are united to each other , that it is enabled to perform the office of any thing resembling the fin of a fish .
In the whale tribe , they are not properly fins , ( although they cannot deserve any other name ) as they contain the same series of bones as in the seal ; and yet no reason can be given wyhy that is the case .
In the Proteosaurus , which partakes more of the fish than of the whale tribe , there is probably a greater degree of nicety of adjustment of motion wanted than in the whale , and consequently a greater subdivision of parts , to compensate for the unyielding materials of which these parts are composed ; and in this instance there are more than two hundred bones , which must greatly exceed the number of cartilages met with in the fins of the shark .
The facts shown in this specimen , it will be admitted , are of considerable importance , in making us more intimately acquainted with the skeleton of this most extraordinary animal .
The second figure contained in the same Plate , ( PI .
XV .
) is of a less interesting nature , because the parts have been repeatedly shown upon former occasions ; and although there is sufficient resemblance of parts to give the idea of this figure belonging to the same skull as the other , on which the facts that have been detailed have their dependence , if that is admitted , much intervening substance must have been lost .
In this figure , the teeth are better seen than in any other that I have examined ; they are distinctly grooved on their surface up to their points , and are firmly fixed in the jaw , so that they are all preserved in their proper place .
The section of the nose , represented in P1 .
XVI .
shows that the nostrils are continued on to the point of the nose , and of the Proteosaurus .
the section of the teeth determine their mode of growth to be the same as in the crocodile .
At the close of this paper , I have much satisfaction in stating ; that the bones of the pelvis , the only ones not yet described , have at last been brought under my observation , in a specimen found at Watchet , in Somersetshire , and lately purchased for the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London .
The specimen is four feet six inches in length , and in consequence of the bones having been little disturbed , is in all respects more complete than any other specimen that has been met with .
The bones of the pelvis are , however , in this specimen too much pressed upon one another to admit of a satisfactory drawing being made cf them ; but they resemble so closely those of the crocodile , as to make any representation unnecessary .
All the fossil bones of the proteosaurus which I have described , belong to the same species ; but I have seen bones of another species , which differs from this in the following particulars the upper jaw is much longer , narrower , and comes more to a point ; the teeth were so loosely fixed in the jaws , that hardly any are met with in their sockets ; that part which had been enclosed by the gum was grooved ; the other portion is very slender , has a 'polished surface , and comes to a sharp point .
The long bone belonging to the anterior fin in both species is as large again as that belonging to the posterior , but both these bones are flatter and longer in the new species ; and where articulated with the two small bones of the fin , send a short process between them ; there is also a deep notch on the outer or lower side of one of these two small bones .
163 EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XV .
This Plate consists of two figures , representing portions of the skull , jaw , and other parts , of the natural size .
Fig. i. A portion of the skull behind the orbit .
The two principal objects in this figure are , the mode of articulation of the spinous processes with the bodies of the vertebrae of the back , forming the canal in which the spinal marrow is contained ; and the fin of this animal in the most perfect state yet discovered , one hundred and seventy separate bones remaining in their natural situation .
Fig. 2 .
Shows the anterior portions of both jaws , which appear from their size to have belonged to the same skull as Fig. i , having been found in the same situation ; allowance must however be made , for a considerable intervening portion having been lost .
PLATE XVI .
Represents a transverse section of the nasal bones , of the natural size .
This is the only opportunity that has offered of seeing the cavity of the nostrils .
The teeth and their sockets in both jaws were accidentally divided in making the section of the nose , and their internal structure exposed , from which it appears , that the mode of growth is similar to that of the crocodile ; the succeeding tooth filling up the cavity of that which preceded it .
t"~~i , Tz'zZ ?
~':Z'~. .
~:_~ ( , cx3 C X.X.2Z.~ ? ? ?
?~ : ?
/ ~~~ ?
?~ ~ - ?
?------i g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r I ) 'g .
Ii li .
L / wI IIII 1-I i I.f Ii 11 .
IiIi I , r i"w Twi III i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 _ a ... , ii a B ahr ii'\\Cr ? . ?
r 3( r : ?
!:ihr X ?
.* d ; l\ ? .
r ?
, ?
i. !
:i ? ? ? ?
-a ? ? ? ? ?
-- ?
i. . ?
; : ? ? ? ? ?
i : ?
tl " ' !
i !
:I iiIi\ii\ ; ;ii ; ii at j ' 'iliiii 1 ' i 1I II !
i\iii ; Ii : : ' ' II / j ; ; i'irIII !
\ ?
:I : lii'i ; i:'i 'I :

