]\gt ; the ' Ions by the Spraying of By J. J. , D.Sc .
, University College , Dublin .
Communicated Prof. Received June on the electrification of valor 1 ) and spraying* authol a rief account of the nature of the ionisation which nies these .
In a later these results were extended .
It pure ater is sprayed , ions of both cluced , erative being in exccss .
These ions are found in a tain number of distinct , each group a istic lobility .
There is no variation of mobility with time , that is to say , ions of specified mobility will be found if an examination is made over as wide a range of tinle as is experimentally possible between the roduction and ) pealance of the ionisation .
The mobilities found were : { thd 6 all expressed as the velocity of the ion in centinletres second in a field of 1 yolt per centimetre .
As far as mobilities are concerned , no difference between the positive and the rative ions was found the fastest ion ( mobility ) not found vsith a ation of the ionisation produced by bubbling .
through llercury , Prof. lfcClellamd and .
J. found ) distinct roups of , the ilities of the iolJs in this case on the ti1ue elapsin from their ) roduction and also on ) oree of dryness of the air .
When the air was dried , or when the ions examined as soou after formation tively high values of nlobility were obtained .
With air lobilities 1 lower , by the time-interval tion and observation ions could be to a final , steady mobilit .
The nlobilities of the five oups in this state agreed the mobilities of the five ions produced water .
In joint discussion it was ested that these five ions are the same each ) ) when produced by the breaking up of , they some little time add on water to attain to their final steady , tate .
1Ve ) } ined t therefore as water ates of five different ' oy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 ( 1914 ) .
Academy .
( 1916 ) .
Water : 113 The Nature of Ions by the of Water : sizes .
In the present paper a more definite theory will be , submitted a to the constitution of these ions , a theory which in the light of the fuller account which can now be given of the more mobile ions can be made to cover all the ions observed .
PART ATION 0F 0F VERY IONS .
In the previous experiments the method of observation employed was to draw the ionised air at a steady rate a tube , a coaxial cylindrical electrode suitably insulated .
The outer tube was to various , and the current to the electrode measured .
When the current-voltage graph plotted it consisted of a number of straight lines , the intersections of straight lines showing the voltages at which the various groups of ions were saturated .
The determination of mobilities then reduces itself to the accurate drawing of the raplJs .
If the ations of current arc unsteady , or if the of ions of any class is small , so that the due to the satul'ation of that class is 1lot well marked , the possibility of an accurate xtion of lnobilify is reduced .
Great attention given , therefore , in the work to the accurate drawing of these graphs .
In the result it was felt that the mobilities of the different groups were fairly well apal t from a few cases in which there appeared to be a real variation .
It was felt , , that much more inforlnation could be obtained about the more mobile ions , if a method which old more effectively separate out the different ) of ions could be employed\mdash ; and pecially if such method could ) devised to examine the ions soon as possible their production , when their numl ) had not been leduced by recombination or diffusion .
The method described below was found to be suitable , and it was irnnlediaGely found that of much higher lnobilit than observed esent .
lons which had obscured in the other were readily separated .
A full account can llow be iven of the more mobile Experi , The used is showJl in .
A voodenc box of rect ( shape was made easuring internally 100 cm .
cm .
wide deep .
To the top and bottonn were fitted etal plates .
The bottom plate was 50 cm .
lonb ) and its end was 20 cm .
from the open end of the bo This plate was supported by two metal rods assing through cbonite in the bottom of the IJOX .
The plate came .
of the bottom .
of ebonite of this ness were placed sely under the ) so 114 Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The Natur of the its surface was quite level .
xactly above this ) late were plates , .
long , by an interval of about cm .
These plates ) metal fitted with 1 to keep the in Obition .
plate was a little clearance ( ' side .
The ) ) } .
on each of the ) of metal ( shown in eud view of th ) .
on lo , 1 and were ( nnect earth .
a of .
at between the .
of ordinary ) to ] ) ottle containing driven air at of 27 .
of nercury .
the ssed t( bottom of ) box and a distance of ) ) late .
distance the } and the plate ) ' .
Connection made with a neter at , so that ( ( jnrrent of air could be apparatus lower plate was onnected t a .
by means hich it eould be chargod to any desired perimenfq the plate was connected to the electrolnetcr the plate ] ) to earth .
111 a few experiments and were both connected to the electrometer , of , her was fenerally more suitable .
The tilted so that vater sprayed the plate drain away a vessel provided it .
If a certain number of ions of the same mobility , ate produced at tip of the iprayer , they will th ) ) the of the ) traversed } horizontal a voltage , of air passing between the aleb 1 distance ) plates , itnd inside of natns .
If is the csuJt ] ) tained .
zero up to a voltage old reeive no ] : at certain .
the of ions should ether d the plate the ) ) .
) ) , he curren1 .
btant the nntil ) of ) received .
The will a sel.ies } , each the collection of it of lnol)iliCics arc readily calculated { ) { hc step ) the rmula given ) .
It is thal il ' this ( an ised in practice , the llethod is mueh and that ) ionsJ enlployed for the delcrminati of .
It the that it separates out iuns uf closel ther and it possible to ) ltobiliCy each .
When the method put into practice the -like nature of the current\mdash ; 116 Dr. J. J. Nolan .
he Nature of the graphs was at once apparent .
But an unexpected complication had arisen which will be clear from an inspection of fig. 2 .
These two raphs deal with negative ions .
The steps are very well developed , but in each case for zero voltage a very )ative current is recorded .
Positive , in one case three , and in the other case over four volts , have to be applied in order to bring the negative current down to zero .
Independently of the applied there seems to be a negative field in operation of the order of three or fonr volts .
A little consideration makes the origin of this field clear .
The jet from the sprayer contains ( see previous paper* ) minute water drops with a positive charge and large numbers of positive and negative ions with mobilities of all values from very fast to very slow .
The ative ions are in excess , the difference corresponding to the positive charge on the water .
Vhen this jet is spread out over the lower plate a certain fraction of the -drops are caught by the plate and yive up their charge to it .
A commensurate number of ions will not be discharged , because , whereas the water drops may be carried against the plate by the velocity of their projection from sprayer , the ions will not retain such a velocity , but will take up almost at once the stream-like motion of the air in the apparatus .
The result is that an excess of ative electricity is formed close to the lower plate .
In this way a field could easily be set up of the order of lagnitude observed .
The distance between the plates is approximately 10 cm .
The positive voltage essary to secure a zero reading of current varied between zero and 6 volts , but was about two .
These variations occurred in such a way as to lend support to the explanation just given .
Slight variations in the position of the spraying nozzle would mean that more or less of the water-drops would be discharged ainst the lower late .
It was found that the field varied accordingly .
Again , if the velocity of the air in the apparatus is increasea , it is to be expected that the negative excess present at any time would be diminished and that the field would be correspondingly smaller .
It is foumd that the field does in this way with the air-velocity .
I is very important to be clear as to how far this phenomenon affects the determination of mobilities .
In practically the experiments dealt with here the rate of air the )ratus was such that Vu saturation mobility ) had the value .
The voltage corresponding to the determination of the mobility of the ordinary small ion would be between 25 and 30 .
As the value of the extra voltage was two , and sometimes less , it was easy to choose conditions so that the effect is negligible for the small ion and for any ion of lower mobility .
It is ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 ( 1914 ) .
Ions the of .
117 in connection with the fast ions , and especially with the very fast ones , that the effect is irnportant .
The question is this : Can we treat fieId as being livalent to a uniform steady field , is simply to ) added to the applied field if the latter is tive , or cted from it if it is positive ?
It is easy to verify that , for any fixed ) osition of the nozzle and for a miform air-blast , tJle voltage necessary to current is quite constant , so that the field is in that ) at least .
It will not be affected either by the rent motion of the ions untlcr different applied fields , because the small used in lvith the mobile ions leave the motion of the reat majority of the ions absolutely unaffected .
The to be added or subtractod will not be different for different values of the applied field .
As to whether the field sufficiently unifot to be treated simply in an way , we cill ) results for guidan .
Observatiolts of the cve have been obtained under various conditions , } correcting voltage " " or positive necessary to give zero current between ] ' and , The obsel.vations when the correcting voltage zero especially able .
The Table iven below contains the results of these observations ; it shows the voltage at which steps occurred on the currentvoltage these having been corrected by the addition of the voltage .
These observe tions deal with atiyeo ions . .
This deals with some of the steps to the very rapid ions .
It is cleal ' that the corrected voltagcs very well that they agree very well with the observed in the case when no correction had to be applied In every series of observations , , whatever part of the curve is exalnined , it is sary to take a few observations with low positive voltages , in order to determine the point at which the graph the line of zero current .
It , is much easier to proceed in this way than to endeavour to arrange the apparatus so that the correcting voltage it always zero .
Efforts were directed to keeping the necessary correcting voltage as low as possible , and to determining its value accurately for each experiment .
Taking as the of , we see thnt lirst well marked is at volts .
But , before that , there to be an abrupt rise and volume .
Undel the conditionh the iment , Vu eing 4 , the mobility of the iou to be bonle .
The same indications are present in , but the entioned is the ) estexam } ) as the of rent vere b steady .
We only attribute this to the ) resence of free are no corresponding indications on the ) ositive curves .
The ) is of fuller examination .
Two ex Jlul ) are iven ( of the raphs obtained with values voltage .
Both ative i. The voltages have rected .
five were obtained lulder the conditions as ards air-velocity , etc. ; the of the all , and they are therefore one another .
A consideration of the curves will illustrate some points in connection with these experiments .
Thus , if we compale I and II , we find that they in iving s of a of curve 1 sho } ) do IF .
An nation C be in 1 observations ions v in the in the }yerc t .
In I , ions at intel of .
of , in II ' we ind in tely , but ) ) they in sl do on thehtl al : in , there point cepC that il .
1U01 .
And these ctlrve in II , no tion of be fact that tions nut stepb ' be nred .
in ttldition there to rt of the Jlll volts , some diness tion which euts n consistent Io , st uf on the fonnd always .
In this ) est ) lished fairly ) ) must be arded ( in some doul ) noted later .
In the actual deternlinations of obility , were enerally used , the ations b bont the in }hich stel were idited in tcment of Results .
follo ) Tables the values of llobility of the ions .
Only ions of eater t nnity been ( ; those of lower llobilit have been.so full- ) and ative ions we Iind that the the stesf n are .
After that there is reement , the slowest in each are practically identical .
Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The of the able Iative Ions . .
Remarks .
ITwo observntions.crvations oTw bserYations ohether t litiesrep.esentdifferentions Table -Positive Ions .
of Some of the mobilities are much higher than would be anticipated .
It would be useful at this stage to see if this could be due to any error in the method of .
In estimating mobilities by the formula ?
certain assnmptions been made . .
It was assumed that all the ions are produced at the tip of the ayer .
It is that the ions are not all produced at one point , or that , if they that point is not tip of the .
But the fact that the qteps in the raph are so steep and sharply marked is a pretty clear indication that the of the ions is sharply localised , at least within the limits of experimental observation .
It might be said , however , that the point at which the ions are produced is not the tip of the sprayer but some point 2 , 3 or 4 cm .
in front of it .
This is very unlikely , and if it were true it would mean that our estimate of is too high and that the true values of mobility are higher than those given above .
produced by the of 2 .
The quantity was estimated by measurin ) the total quantity of air passing between the upper and the lower plates per second .
But the origin of the ions some distance cm .
bove the plate .
Therefore the quantity is not the total yolulne of air , but is less than it by an amount equal to the quantity of air between plate and a plane drawn parallel to it through the tip of the .
Bnt it is easily seen that if the air velocity at the ) lates is zero , and if distribution of between the plates nately parabolic , involved in this estimation is neolierible , when the veen the plates is as great 3 .
The effects of rush nf air the were ccled .
But if this rnsh of air had any elfect on the ions vould me that the ions were carried a certain velocity parallel I ; the bottom plate instead of of the undisturbed streaul-line motion of .
This would mean Chat a llan is for in onr cRlculation old be to bring them over to the uppcl } ) , and that consequently the values for mobility too low .
It is very unlikely , however , that there any offect of this .
When an ion i , s produced at the tip of the ) it ctJltes nnder the influence of the field and at once moves up out uf the from the sprayer and takes up the velocity of the layers of air into which it successively 4 .
The principal assumption is in connection with the " " correcting voltages This has been discussed already , but perhaps two points may be eInl)hasised once more .
first is that our values for the mobilities from ] , say , ) ility ards , are practically unaffected by any uncertainty that might be felt in this connection .
aecond is that the values deduced from the experiment in no ) had to do not .
in way with those deduced from other nents .
The facility which mobilities can be deterluined ) this nlethod clear froJn an insl ) ection of the ) .
There are a few other points ) the method which are of note .
Each group of ions , along a path of its own through air free from any other ions .
Thus there is no loss by recombination , and no coml ) lication introduced by encounters with other ions .
, if ( tlylnember of the group es- in mobility , say by an increase of nlass , it drops out of the group and follows a different path for the rest of the .
The ) ions arrive at the ) plate together , an ) upward stel ) the curve .
The ions which increased in mass arrive ious , and their effect on the curve is to give a upward slope to the ) roximately horizontal part between steps .
This effect .
J. J. Nolan .
of ' of the ) to is ions are vs , rying id in the of tive in show case is little from ] tl time of ) .
The } values ( ] bili l de luced eforc he lrtle 11lobiliti tl tion and no the tion .
of the Ctll ( it ions then larI ) step , s. The these ree { tabilit and a definite of .
The the other , of between indicatiol1s satisfactory or consistent .
It is thec ion s ] ilive charactel cforc to ( id of the nature of these ) ions , it .
to ions of 1 are formed at the a of the slower we can derive estions .
the of the which have just ) eefi d Of UCED 1 In the iodn ction to this ) an account ) eeil of the variety of istilled five nlobilities and will be mposed of } ater .
The stances oi their , the in }which their rrowth depends ( in experiments of T. olan , they are not directly from vater , all lend ) idea , from any point of view seems to be the ondy fcasible one .
ing , then , that the ) consist of water , there are in their size , ( 1 ) Sfok-es ' Law , and by .
deduced for the mobility of an ion which is ) in ) ) with the molecules of the which contain it .
of The nodilied f of as deduced by JMillikan* fio1n tionH ou inute o in ai *Milliknn , ' Phys. Bev vol. 1 ( 1913 ) .
ced by the of the of the for the acceleration due to tield of intel ) sity the chargc1 on the ion , and assuming for the present that the is the electronic electrostatic units , calculate the radius of five ions .
the value is taken , tIJd for value 9 cm .
The luced a ) nlated below .
I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I I1 .
0043 1 ( I .
1 1 of the iotls calculated in this way related to } another in a vavv .
If the seco11d ion , fhere is almost uniform ratio bet masses .
The value of this ratio ) The special ' excluding the second ion will be dealt wiCh at a later The alidity of for of very radius ] bc tioned .
We show , however , the leslts deduced are in greenlent with those deduced theoretical the } obility of ion ' ' J. Thotllso the assumptiou th elfecfs of collisions between those ) etwce two \ldquo ; ives t is the numbel of molecules of the per of a cule , its average velocity at the mperifture ( , the the of the ion , tfJat of a molecule , sum of the radu of ion and a molecule , ) on an ion .
If the mass of the ion is compared with that of the gas molecule this becomes Iobility Sir J. J. Thomson , 'Phy. .
Soc. Proc , vol. 27 ( 1914 ) .
Dr. J. J. Nolan .
Nature of th On the same supposition with to elastic collisions , Townsend , Langevin'sation of the coefficient of usion of two gases , gives for the velocity of an ion in the direction of an electric force X the formula , where the pressure of a molecules per cubic centimetre .
When the mass of the ion is compared with that of the gas molecule , this becomes identical with the corresponding mula of Sir J. J. Thomsoll .
Using this ] , then , we can find the value of corresponding to the various ions .
Assuning once more that the is the unit electronic cha , we find for the radius of the ion of mobility , the value cm .
as ared with the value ' cm .
deduced from Millikan 's formula .
The reement between the two values is remarkably But a serious difficulty arises at this .
If large ion has the size which these two very different methods of calculation in ascribing to it , ib old be easily visil ) in the oscope .
But de states the , large ion produced from fianles cannot be seen in the ultra , and ) gests t it con ists of some solt of loose grouping too to give ultramicroscopic .
We considered each ion so far as if it could be relJrese ted as a spherical lobule of water .
We must nise that this is a definite sumplion and that the alternative must be considered , namely , that some at least of the ions consist of loose of smaller which have not coalesced .
This possibility can be eonsidered morcl at a later stage , for even if we at once de experiment as decisive and regard largest ion as a of srtlallcl , we as vet no clue to what that smaller globule may be , nor have we as yet any evidence as to how many of the ionH are built up in this loose manner .
we arrive at the stage at which the ions are pact spheres of different sizes the formudae we have llbed will then be valid .
Meamwhile we will continue the calculations based upon oligil)al asi31tnption which , all the ion , as consisting of ateh water .
, ' in Gase p. 81 .
Langevin , ' Ann. de Chim .
et do , vol. 5 , ) .
, ' RenduR , ' vol. 149 , p. 1317 ( 1909 ) .
produced by the of .
125 of lons Trcated as Drops Calculated from For ?
The theoretical formula for mobility may be put in the form Mobility where is the radius of the ion .
In the case of the first ions the ratio of mobility of each to the next slowest is .
Therefore the radii of the ions are in the ratio 1 : and their masses are in the ratio 1 : , which is approximately 1 : 6 .
The values deduced from Millikan 's formula have already suggested that the nasses of the ions related to one another in a ahnost identical with this .
Ass then that the ions are built up iu this way , each ion having a mass six times of the next smallest , we can calculate the mobilities of the ions starting from the vest .
The mobility of each ion is from the next slowest bvDlulti ) by , which is equal to .
The following Table shows the calculated mobilities compared with those ) found .
The agree meant is very except in the case of the second ion .
Table Observed Calcuobility ) ) The next in ordel had the mobilities ) , and .
The ratio of luobilities is now different .
The value of is about ) , and the subsequent ratios have values approximately 2 .
If the 1 of the llasscs of the ions lvas 3 , the ratio of the mobilities old be This agrees very well with the ratio found for the faster ions , but the value found for one ratio is in reement .
The latter value ests a ratio of 4 , which would a ratio of mobilities of the value of It is possible that the ratio of the masses of the ions is uniformly and that the freement is in to experimental error and in part to the imperfection of uur theory .
For the 1noment , however , we will assunle that the slowest ion has a mass one-fourth that of the last i011 in tl bove and that the succeeding ions have masses in the ratio of .
the values of the mobilities on these assumptions , find that they correspond very closely with the experimental values .
J. J. of the Table Iass .
1.09 calc th assumption thaC the charge on each of ions ) nnit howevcr , the ions ) from Hames llay have various chal.ges , , etc. , ] least 6 ) to the that heal that we should expect to of of and , etc. , with certain charges support this of ions as yhich we , there is no ustificatio the idea that the size coul( depend ( ' ' on the , on nobility , shonld ) to find a 1 : 2 : 3 : 4 : the observed } ) ilities of the ions .
But no such relationship from { inspection of mobilities .
It is nnlikely , therefore , that majority of have thaIl ains the case of the seconcl ion .
A great ( tions of ion ) the value , othel varied from ' to .
The valne nld with calculated , 00129 , and the value observed by and .
J. Nolan , .
It noted aiso in the ) evious work that the detel n of the mobility of the final ion difficult .
The obsel V ronl 0 to on some occasions it was difficult to this was present at all .
, very good ations of of mobility , which could not be made to fit into .
It is clear , then , that in the case of the two slowest ions , a riety 0 valnes which be accounted for by the existence of hole , howcver , the assumption that the charge on the ions is the tified .
then , at the idea that } water is broken up , ates of certain de sizes prodnced .
} have at least , ' Roy .
Irish Academy , vol. 33 , p. 58 ( 1916 ) .
Ions produced by the Spraying of Water .
certain degree of stability , and , on our present hypothesis , their masses are related to one another , first in a ratio of 6 , and then for the faster ions in a ratio of 3 .
But intervening there is a step from the ion of mobility to the ion of mobility , where we have supposed a mass-relationship of 4 .
It is possible , of course , that the true ratio of the masses of the ions is 3 : 1 , in harmony with the other lighter ions ; in that case the calculated mobilities of the faster ions would have to be lowered about 20 per cent. This would involve a disagreement of about that magnitude between the calculated and the observed values .
Such a reement would not be very serious , that any error in calculation due to the inadequacy of the theory is cumulative in the method which we have employed .
The ion of mobility seems to occupy a special position .
Ihere are reasons for believing that it is a particularly stable .
Taking the radius of the largest ion ( mobility ) as cm .
, the radius of this ion will be cm .
approximately .
Now , it has been shown by Sir J. J. Thomson*and Langevin , that drops of a certain radius should have a very high degree of stability .
The value of the radius of such a drop is calculated as cm .
This is in correspondence with the vadue that has been found above , and it is possible , therefore , that the ion of mobility is the true persistent ion deduced by Sir J. J. Thomson and Langevin rather than the ordinary " " large ion the radius of which we have shown to be cm .
or larger .
The Larger Ions Considered as In discussing the larger ions as loose assemblages of some smaller unit rather than as compact masses , we must make some assumption as to the nature of the unit .
This unit we may assume to be the largest possible single water-globule , the true ' persistent ion\ldquo ; of Langevin and Sir J. J. Thomson , which we have just suggested is identical with the ion of mobility .
The next largest ion , instead of being formed from six of the latter , coalescing into a larger water-sphere , as we supposed before , is , on the present view , formed from a loose group of three .
The viscous resistance to motion offered by this group of three will probably be something greater than three times the resistance of each of the drops from which it is formed , corresponding with the observed ratio of the mobilities of .
Hence we might regard the ions of mobility * of Electricity through Gases , ' p. 149 ( 1903 ) .
See Chauveau , ' Le Badium , ' March-April , 1912 .
VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. 128 Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The Nature of the size Tobilities intermediate between these which hbeenand.oose groups oglobules otable observed by McClelland and P. J. Nolan in dried air would be built up in the same way from a smaller unit .
This is only a slightly more definite statement of the theory put forward by Prof. McClelland and P. J. Nolan , and the present author in the previous paper already referred to .
The masses and dimensions calculated above for the faster ions would remain unaltered in the new arrangement .
The new scheme has this advantage , that it is easier to sse why all the ions have , in general , unit charge .
Each ion is formed from three smaller ones , which will in general be two positives and a negative , or two negatives and a positive .
We can also easily provide for the formation of ions a number of charges , the mobility of which will not be sensibly different from that of the ion with unit charge .
For supposin that two , three , four or any higher number of the latter ions , all of the same sign , come together to form a loose grouping , the resistance of the system will be increased in approximately the same proportion as the charge , so that the mobility will be very much the same as that of the singly charged ion .
There are thus two possible views of the larger ions ; that which regards them as water-globules and that which looks on them as of a smaller drop , which is the real stable water drop .
There is no doubt that the ultra-microscopic experiments of de on flame ases give a veIy strong support to the second view .
The greater ularity in the process of building up of ions which it permits and the ease with which it explains multiple charges are also strongly in its favour .
Further experiments on the large ions should put the matter beyond doubt .
Meanwhile our calculations for the smaller ions are still valid .
Before considering the very rapid ions it is of interest to calculate the size of the smallest of the ions which we are considering at present .
This ion , of observed mobility , has a mass ( Table ) , where , calculating on the basis of Sir J. J. Ihomson 's formula .
Thus the mass of the ion is .
The mass of a molecule of water is .
; therefore this ion contains molecules of water .
If we take the value deduced from Millikan 's formula we find that the corresponding result is 66 molecules of water .
\mdash ; THE NATURE 0F SMALLER IONS PRODUCED FR0M WATBR .
When we consider the values obtained for the mobilities of the smaller ions we are confronted with mobilities which are unexpectedly high .
There are two ways in which we might try to make these mobilities fit in with normal Ions produced by the Spraying of Water .
129 4 values : ( 1 ) We might suppose , at least in the case of the negative ion , that what we are dealing with is an electron which has become attached to a molecule or group of molecules for a certain portion of its path , or ( 2 ) we might suppose that there are present ions with a variety of multiple charges .
On the first hypothesis , it is very difficult to how a variety of high mobilities sharply differentiated from one another could be produced .
But , apart from that , the fact that we find a positive ion with mobility shows that we have to deal with molecules .
The question of multiple charges is not so easily decided .
If there were molecules present with one , two , three charges , etc. , we would expect to find a 1 : 2 : 3 : 4 : relation between the mobilities .
An inspection of the table of mobilities shows that it is easy enough to pick out here and there mobilities which are roughly in the ratio 1 : 2 or 1 : 3 but we can find no sustained 1 : 2 : 3 : 4 : relation .
The first three well-established mobilities , 27 , and , may suggest 3 : 2 : 1 .
But the numerical agreement is not .
Even if we admitted that these ions had three , two and one charges respectively , we have to explain why the doubly positive mobility occurs while there is no trace of this ion with a single positive charge .
Any such allocation of multiple , moreover , does not make much change in the difficulty as regards high values of mobility .
For example , even if the 3 : 2 : 1 ratio of charges mentioned above could be successfully established , it would leave us with a singly charged ion of the unusually high mobility of Calculation of th ?
of an Ion .
The very high values of mobility obtained in the present work seem to support the view that the collisions between ions and molecules may be regarded as taking place between hard elastic spheres .
The other hypotheses as to ionic collision made familiar by the work of Wellisch* and would yield much lower values .
On the elastic collision hypothesis Sir J. J. Thomson , for the mobility of an ion the equations .
and M. according as is greater or less than is the number of molecules of liSCh , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 209 , p. 272 ( 1909 ) .
Sutherland , 'Phil .
Mag Sept. , 1909 .
Phys. Soc. Proc Part I , vol. 27 ( 1914 ) .
S There is a misprint in this formula as published .
Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The Nature of the the per the mass of a hydrogen molecule , its velocity at the temperature of the gas , the 1nass of the ion and that of the molecule .
We have already used the formula for the case when MI is large compal.ed with .
We can use these formulae for calculating the mobilities of various possible gregates of molecules , but two difficulties arise .
The diameter of the sphere of influence of a molecule is not known accurately , and even if we could assign a value to in the case where the ion is a single molecule , we can only endeavour to approximate to it when the ion is a cluster of several molecules .
As the agreement between Sutherland 's values of for the ordinary gases and those deduced from the limiting density is very good , it was decided to rely upon these two methods of calculation .
The values cm .
for air and cm .
for water have therefore been used in deducing the mobilities of various possible ions .
In calculating the mobility of a composite ion formed by molecules of a gas , the diameter of the molecules being , in a gas of which the molecules had diameter , the formula has been ) .
As to the composition of the ions , two possibilities present themselves\mdash ; they may be gregates of air-molecules ( making no distinction for the moment between oxygen and nitrogen ) or they may be regates of water .
The balance of probabilities is altogether in favour.of the latter view .
The slowest of these fast ions ( mobility ) is identical with the ion which was considered to consist of a cluster of about 70 water-molecules .
From that ion up to the fastest there are a variety of ions increasing in mobility and therefore decreasing in size .
There is no indication of any transition where the ions cease to be of water and begin to be composed of air .
There is no special reason in these experiments why a greater number of groupings of air-molecules should be formed ; whereas there is very good reason to expect all possible aggregations of water .
Further reasons in support of this view will be brought forward at a later stage in this paper .
Assuming then that we are concerned altogether with ions composed of water , we can employ the formula given by Sir J. J. Thomson to calculate the mobility of ions composed of 1 , 2 , 3 , and various higher numbers of watermolecules .
In the following Iable mobilities calculated for various groupings of water-molecules are given together with the mobilities observed , negative and positive .
Ions produced by the Spraying of Water .
Table of Calculated with Experimental Voelues of Mobility .
The mobility calculated for an ion consisting of one water-molecule with unit charge is in fair agreement with the values and found for negative and positive ions respectively .
A water-molecule with two would have a mobility , according to our calculations .
This corresponds fairly well with the fastest ion observed ( mobility 27 ) .
No place has been found in the above Table for the ion sometimes observed , the mobility of which was .
If the ion consisting of three watermolecules had a double charge , its mobility should be .
This is the most probable explanation of this ion .
The values for mobility of the ative ions fit in fairly well with the values calculated for ions consisting of 2 , 3 , 6 and 12 water-molecules , with a tendency for the observed values to be higher than the calculated ones ; the agreement for 18 , 24 , 30 , 36 , 48 and 54 is very good , both for positive and negative .
Of course , in the last two cases , a fairly big change could be made in the number of watermolecules without very seriously affecting the mobility ; but the way iu which the observed values agree with those calculated for even increments of 6 water-molecules from 18 to 36 is very striking .
With regard to the ions of 12 and 15 water-molecules , it is possible that in this case we are really only concerned with one ion consisting of 12 rather than 15 molecules .
There are only two negative observations giving the value , and one positive giving the value .
Perhaps the disturbing element is one of the slower ions with a double charge .
If we eliminate the ion of molecules , then the negative ions go fairly evenly 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 12 , 18 , 24 , 30 , 132 Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The Nature of the that which wuppose tolecule dgree wositive iothing wound correspondingto tmolecules.ighest mobilities.after values found in the case of negative ions .
These mobilities and are deduced from good experiments , and no doubt is felt about their approximate accuracy .
As will be seen from the Table , they fit in very well with the calculated mobilities for ions consisting of 4 and 7 water-molecules respectively .
This suggests that these ions are formed by the union of a water-molecule which has lost an electron , to groups of 3 and 6 watermolecules .
It is possible that all the positive ions are formed in this way , that is , by the union of a positively molecule with a stable or semi-stable group of water-molecules which is already in existence .
When the number of molecules becomes considerable , the resulting ion has practically the same mobility as the ative ion , which is formed from similar group by the adding on of an electron .
All the ions observed have now been accounted for with the exception of the negative ion .
There are only two observations of this ion , so that the exact value of its mobility is not very well established .
The best explanation then that can be given is that it consists of 5 watermolecules ; such an ion would have a mobility about , as compared with the observed value of It is worthy of note that it is just those ions which show up most consistently and easily on the experimental curves which fall most readily into a ular classification .
These are the very fast ions and the ions with mobilities from to inclusive .
We cannot so easily classify others , partly because of an uncertainty as to their accurate mobility values , and partly , no doubt , because some of them represent aggregates of a small degree of stability which are not easily made to show a relationship with what we may regard as the more definite or stable forms .
On the supposition then that the ions are composed of various numbers of water-molecules we have been able to show that if the ions are built up in a certain regular way the observed mobilities agree fairly well with a theoretical estimate from the elastic collision point of view .
The agreement is better the greater the number of molecules in the ion , and for the last six ions the agreement is extremely good .
Then the last ion is found to consist of 54 water-molecules ( assuming a regular step of 6 or a multiple of 6 ) , agreeing as well as could be expected with our previous estimate of 66 to 71 .
Ions produced by the Water .
Possibility that the Ions are Groups of Air-Molecules .
It might be , however , that a set of ions could be built up from air- molecules which would fit the observed values as well as our theoretical water-ious .
But the previous work on the large ions has led to the idea that the slowest of the present ions ( mobility ) is altogether water .
We would have to suppose , then , that as the ions became smaller a certain proportion of air-molecules entered into their composition , and that finally at a certain small size they were altogether composed of air-molecules .
But the very good agreement between the calculated and theoretical values for the last six ions suggests that they at least are altogether vater .
There is nothing to suggest a change in composition .
that aggregations of air-molecules are possible , we can calculate the mobilities which ions composed of various small numbers of air-molecules should have .
Using Sir J. J. Thomson 's formula as before , we find that ions containing 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 air-molecules would have mobilities 12 , and .
The first of these numbers ( 12 ) is practically the same as the mobility calculated for a water-molecule , and indeed the two following , and , are not far removed from the corresponding alues for water , and .
If we consider the ratios of the mobilities of the first three ions we find that the observed numbers are as 100 : 55 : 40 .
The values calculated for water are as 100 : 60 : 46 , while those for air are as 100 : 67 : 53 .
The observed numbers , therefore , agree better with the supposition that the ions are composed of water than with the idea that they are composed of air .
The explanation of the two positive ions which do not correspond to any negative ions fits in very well on the supposition that the ions are of water .
If the ions are composed of air-molecules it is hard to see why there should be any difference between positive and negative , because the ion will then consist of a cluster of molecules owing whatever stability it has to its charge .
The number of molecules in such an ion would depend only on the charge .
We cannot imagine a cluster of gaseous molecules an ion by picking up an electron or a positive molecule , because there is no evidence that such clusters exist in a gas like oxygen or nitrogen .
In fact the only evidence of the existence of such uncharged clusters is in the case of moist gases , where everything points to these clusters being composed of water .
We cannot , of course , exclude the possibility that the first ion ( mobility ) may be a molecule of oxygen or nitrogen , because the observed value would agree as well with that assumption as with the supposition that it is a molecule of water .
Dr. J. J. Nolan .
The Nature of the Identity of Some of the Water Ions with Ordinary Gaseous Ions .
If we consider the four ) ) , the observed mobilities of which are ( for negative ions ) and , we find indications of a possible connection with the mobilities of ordinary ions produced by -rays or other ionising ents in air under different conditions .
For example , in saturated air the ordinary values* for mobility of negative and positive ions are respectively and , corresponding approximately to the third and fourth of the ions above .
For dry air the values given by different observers vary a great deal , and there is good reason for believing that this should be attributed to the degree of drying arrived at in various cases .
For example , gives the values and ] for fative and positive .
values are and .
In more recent work , where a very high of dryness was attained , WellischS finds the values and , corresponding to some extent with values and All these values can be grouped fairly well into four classes corresponding to the four values quoted above , the negative ion having values approximating to , or , according to the dryness of the air , and the positive ion having values approximating to or in the same way , with a tendency towards the last value occurring more frequently .
The small ion in air , therefore , must at the very least resemble closely in mass and size the water-ions which we have been .
The way in which its mobility decreases in damp air resembles exactly the way in which the water-ion adds on further groups of wator-molecules .
The view is put forward in this paper that the ordinary small ion is composed of water , the negative ion being an aggregate of 18 , 24 , or 30 molecules of water , according to the condition of the air as regards humidity , and the positive ion consisting of 30 or 36 watermolecules , more often the latter number .
Of course we cannot insist on the exact accuracy of the number of water-molecules assigned , but it is felt that they are fairly close to the true values .
This theory of the nature of the small ions applies to any of the permanent gases as well as to air .
The nature of the small ion in a readily condensable gas is probably different .
The justification of the theory that the small ion is composed of water is found in the ease with which it explains several of the wellknown properties of the gaseous ion .
* Zeleny , 'Phil .
Trans 1900 .
Wellisch , Phil Trans 1909 .
Langevin , ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' 1903 .
S Wellisch , ' American Journal of Science , ' May , 1916 .
Zeleny , .
cit. Ions produced by the Spraying of The Nobility of the in Diffcrent Gases .
In a number of the permanent gases the mobility of the ion is inversely proportional to the square root of the density .
This result follows immediately from our theory , for , the mass of the iou being large compared with that of the gas-molecule , the formula of Sir J. J. omson , which we have been usin , becomes being the mass of the gas-molecule .
We can , moreover , use the full formula to calculate the mobilities of ions having the composition that we assume in different gases .
For exalnple , taking Sutherland 's value for the molecular diameter of , we can calculate the mobilities of ions composed of 18 , 24 , 30 , and 36 watermolecules in hydrogen .
Table Hydrogen .
The reement between mobilities calculated by this method and the values observed is extremely good .
Again , as in the case of air , we find the negative charge associated with 18 water-molecules , and the positive charge associated with 36 , when the drying is specially good .
Under other conditions of moisture the other two sizes tend to appear .
Space will not permit of the extension of these calculations to the other gases .
It may be said , however , that the agreement is good in the case of the more permanent , but not so good in the case of gases which are easily condensable .
The further advantages of the theory of the small ion just put forward may be summarised rapidly as follows:\mdash ; * Zeleny , .
cit. Chattock , 'Phil .
Mag 1899 .
Frank and Pohl , 'Verh . .
Deut .
Phys. Ges 1907 .
S Haines , ' PhiL Mag April , 1916 .
136 Nature of the Ions produced by the Spraying of Water .
( 1 ) It permits of ready explanation of the results of Blanc*and for the mobilities of ions in gaseous mixtures .
: ( 2 ) It can be harmonised with results on the variation of mobility with temperature .
( 3 ) The sizes buted to the ions are in fair agreement with the sizes deduced from the coefficient of diffusion .
( 4 ) The abnormally mobilities observed by HainesS in very pure hydrogen are readily explained if we assume that the " " impurity\ldquo ; necessary for the formation of ions is water , and that the ions which successively appear are composed of 1 , 6 , 18 , and 36 water-molecules respectively .
CONCLUSION .
It is no part of the theory given in this paper to insist on the absolute values of the numbers of molecules supposed to constitute each ion .
These are the numbers which fit in best with our present knowledge of molecular sizes .
With fuller information , the ions might be better represented in terms of some other unit rather than 6 But enough evidence has been given to show that , in the case of ions produced by spraying water , there is a ular building up of ates of water , and that certain of these aggregates , which seem to be specially stable , are at the very least similar , and are probably identical with the , small ions observed in various gases .
It is clear that there are many ways in which the ideas put forward in this paper can be experimentally tested .
Further work should render it possible to decide whether the larger ions are to be regarded as loose roupings or compact gates .
It should be possible also to obtain more information on the more important question of the nature of the ordinary small ion , and to test the theory put forward in this paper .
The author is indebted to Prof. McClelland , to whose suggestion these researches are due , for his interest and advice .
* Blanc , ' Journ. de Phys vol. 7 , p. 838 ( 1908 ) .
Wellisch , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 82 , p. 500 ( 1909 ) .
Phillips , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc ( 1907 ) .
S Haines , ' Phil. Mag April , 1916 .
Perhaps in this connection the structure of crystallised water is not without significance .
As is well known , snow crystals are almost always flat and hexagonal character , taking various forms such as that of a six-pointed star , but showing evidence of having been formed around a single nucleus and having characteristic angles of and

