On the NAerves of the Face ; being a second Pacper on that Subject .
By Charles Bell , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 28 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 317 .
] After recapitulating the contents of his former paper , the author cites cases which have occurred since its publication , in support of his doctrine , first , that the sensibility of the head and face depends on the fifth pair of nerves ; secondly , that the muscular branches of that pair are subservient to mastication ; and , thirdly , that the portio dura of the seventh pair controls those motions of the parts of the face , whether voluntary or involuntary , which are connected with respiration .
Instances are given of lesions of the portio dura , from accident or from disease , followed by paralysis of the muscles on the same side of the face , while the sensibility remained .
On the other hand , cases are related of injury to the fifth pair , being attended with loss of sensibility in all the parts receiving branches from the injured nerve , while the power of motion continued unimpaired .
In one case of this description , where one half of the under lip had become insensible , on a tumbler being applied to the mouth , the patient imagined it was a broken glass that he touched .
A similar delusion was experienced by another patient , in whom the half of the upper lip had been deprived of sensation by an injury to the sub-orbital branch on the same side .
From these facts the author deduces the absurdity of the practice of cutting the portio dura for the relief of tic douleureux .
He next enters into an anatomical description of the course of that division of the fifth pair of nerves , which is unconnected with the Ga.sserian ganglion , and passes under it , and which he considers as the motor or manducatory portion of the fifth , being distributed to the temporal , masseter , pterygoid , and buccinator muscles ; some branches of it supplying the muscles of the lips , and also the mylohyoideus and anterior belly of the digastricus , the action of which is to depress the jaw .
In proof that this nerve is destined to manducation , the root of the fiftfh pair being exposed in an ass , and irritated , the jaws closed with a snap ; and on its being divided , the jaw fell relaxed and powerless .
The authlor next endeavours to show the necessity of an accordance between the motions of the lower jaw and those of the cheeks during mastication ; and the probability that this connexion of motions is brought about by means of the connexions which exist among their respective nerves , and between which a sympathy may in consequence be established .
In one case violent spasms took place in the masseter and temporal muscles , while the motions of the features were free and unconstrained ; and in another , the muscles of the jaw on one side were paralysed , with loss of sensibility on that side of the face .
On the other hand , when the portio dura was paralysed , all the muscles of the face wasted , except those supplied by the fifth pair .
T'hei author conclude 's by a warl ' tributc of acknowlcdge'Cnnt to .81 his brother-in-law , the late Mr. Shaw , for the valuable assistance he afforded him in the whole course of his investigations on the nerves .

