V. " On some Optical Phenomena of Opals .
" By WILLIAM CROOKES , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 23 , 1869 .
When a good fiery opal is examined in day- , sun- , or artificial light , it appears to emit vivid flashes of crimson , green , or blue light , according to the angle at which the incident light falls , and the relative position of the opal and the observer ; for the direction of the path of the emitted beam bears no uniform proportion to the angle of the incident light .
Examined more closely , the flashes of light are seen to proceed*from planes or surfaces of irregular dimensions inside the stone , at different depths from the surface and at all angles to each other .
Occasionally a plane emitting light of one colour overlaps a plane emitting light of another colour , the two colours becoming alternately visible upon slight variations of the angle of the stone ; and sometimes a plane will be observed which emits crimson light at one end , changing to orange , yellow , green , &amp;c. , until the other end of the plane shines with a blue light , the whole forming a wonderfully beautiful solar spectrum in miniature .
I need scarcely say that the colours are not due to the presence of any pigment , but are interference colours caused by minute striae or fissures lying in different planes .
By turning the opal round and observing it from different directions , it is generally possible to get a position in which it shows no colour whatever .
Viewed by transmitted light , opals appear more or less deficient in transparency and have a slight greenish yellow or reddish tinge .
In order to better adapt them to the purposes of the jeweller , opals are almost always polished with rounded surfaces , back and front ; but the flashes of coloured light are better seen and examined when the top and bottom of the gems are ground and polished flat and parallel .
A good opal is not injured by moderate heating in water , soaking in turpentine , or heating strongly in Canada balsam and mounting as a microscopic slide .
By the kindness of Mr. W. Chapman , of Frith Street , Soho , and other friends , I have been enabled to submit some thousands of opals to optical examination ; and from these I have selected about a dozen which appeared worthy of further study .
If an opal which emits a fine broad crimson light is held in front of the slit of a spectroscope or spectrum-microscope , at the proper angle , the light is generally seen to be purely homogeneous , and all the spectrum that is visible is a brilliant luminous line or band , varying somewhat in width and more or less irregular in outline , but very sharp , and shining brightly on a perfectly black ground .
If , now , the source of light is moved , so as to shine into the spectrum-apparatus through the opal , the above appearance is reversed , and we have a luminous spectrum with a jet-black band in the red , identical in position , form of outline , and sharpness with the luminous band previously observed .
If instead of moving the first source of light ( the one which gave the reflected luminous line in the red ) another source of light be used for obtaining the spectrum , the two appearances , of a coloured line on a black ground , and a black line on a coloured ground , may be obtained simultaneously , and they will be seen to fit accurately .
Those parts of the opalwhich emit red light are therefore seen to be opaque to light of the same refrangibility as that which they emit ; and upon examining in the same manner other opals which shine with green , yellow , or blue light , the same appearances are observed , showing that this rule holds good in these cases also .
It is doubtless a general law , following of necessity the mode of production of the flashes of colour .
Having once satisfied myself that the above law held good in all the instances which came under my notice , I confined myself chiefly to the examination of the transmitted spectra , although the following descriptions will apply equally well , mutatis mutandis , to the reflected spectra .
The examinations were made by means of the spectrum-microscope a description of which I have just had the honour of sending to the Society .
This instrument is peculiarly adapted to examinations of this sort , both on account of the small size of the object which can be examined in it , and also as it permits the use of both eyes in viewing the spectrum .
The following is a brief description of some of the most curious transmission spectra shown by these opals .
The accompanying figures , drawn with the camera lucida , convey as good an idea as possible of the different appearances .
The exact description will of course only hold good for one portion of the opal ; but the general character of each individual stone is well marked .
No. 1 shows a single black band in the red .
When properly in focus this has a spiral structure .
Examined with both eyes it appears in decided relief , and the arrangement of light and shade is such as to produce a striking resemblance to a twisted column .
No 2 .
gives an irregular line in the orange .
Viewed binocularly , this exhibits the spiral structure in a marked manner , the different depths and distances standing well out ; upon turning the milled head of the stageadjustment , so as to carry the opal slowly from left to right , the spiral line is seen to revolve and roll over , altering its shape and position in the spectrum .
It is not easy to retain the conviction that one is looking merely at a band of deficient light in the spectrum , and not at a solid body , possessing dimensions and in actual motion .
No. 3 has a line between the yellow and green , vanishing to a point at the top , and near the bottom having a loop , in the centre of which the green appears .
Higher up , in the green , is a broad green band , indistinct on one side and branching out in different parts .
No. 4 has a broad , indistinct , and sloping band in the blue , and another , still more indistinct , in the violet .
No. 5 has a band in the yellow , not very sharp on one side , and somewhat sloping .
Upon moving the opal sideways , it moves about from one part of the yellow field to another .
In one position it covers the line D , and is opaque to the sodium-flame of a spirit-lamp .
No. 6 shows a curiously shaped band in the red , very sharp and black , and terminating in one part at the line D. In the yellow there is a black dot .
The spectrum of this opal showed by reflected light intensely bright red bands , of the shape of the transmission bands .
On examining this opal with a power of 1 inch , in the ordinary manner , the portion giving this spectrum appeared to glow with intense red light , and was bounded with a tolerably definite outline .
Without altering any other part of the microscope , the prisms were then pushed in so as to look at the whole surface of the opal through the prisms , but without the slit .
The shape and appearance of the red patch were almost unaltered ; and here and there over other parts of the opal were seen little patches of homogeneous light , which , not having been fanned out by the prisms , retained their original shape and appearance .
No. 7 shows a black patch in the red , only extending a little distance , and a line in the yellow .
On moving the opal the line in the red vanishes , and the other line changes its position and form .
No. 8 shows the most striking example of a spiral rotating line which I have yet met with .
On moving the opal sideways the line is seen to start from the red and roll over , like an irregularly shaped and somewhat hazy corkscrew , into the middle of the yellow .
The drawing shows the appearance of this band in two positions .
C 013~~~~0 tr .
: " " b rn " y ^ ?
_= ^^W g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^~ " y y"^~^ __ -y~--y ~~-.-1 _Y , 1 .
1 ; 11 - ... ... 1 , ^^_ _1 1 '1 ' ... ... , = IE E-b _e|I d &lt; oyI -^cr II[| I*^ *y 1L ^^ r^ z : t ?
o z. ; ... t0^ No. 9 is one of the most curious .
A broad black and sharp band stretches diagonally across the green , touching the blue at the top and the yellow at the bottom .
No. 10 gives a diagonal band , wide , but straight , and tolerably sharp across the green .
By rotating these opals , 9 and 10 , in azimuth , whilst in the field of the instrument , the lines can be made to alter in inclination until they are seen to slope in the opposite direction .
No. 11 gives another illustration of a diagonal line , across the yellow and green , not extending quite to the top .
No. 12 is one of the best examples I have met with of a narrow , straight , and sharply cut line .
It is in the green , and might easily be mistaken for an absorption-band caused by an unknown chemical element .
Other opals are exhibited which show a dark band travelling along the spectrum , almost from one end to the other , as the opal is moved sideways .
It is scarcely necessary to say that the colour of the moving luminous line varies with the part of the spectrum to which it belongs .
The appearance of a luminous line , slowly moving across the black field of the instrument , and assuming in turn all the colours of the spectrum , is very beautiful .
All these black bands can be reversed , and changed into luminous bands , by illuminating the opal with reflected light .
They are , however , more difficult to see ; for the coloured light is only emitted at a particular angle , whilst the special opacity to the ray of the same refrangibility as the emitted ray holds good for all angles .
The explanation of the phenomena is probably as follows : In the case of the moving line , the light-emitting plane in the opal is somewhat broad , and has the property of giving out at one end , along its whole height and for a width equal to the breadth of the band , say , red light ; this merges gradually into a space emitting orange , and so on throughout the entire length of the spectrum , or through that portion of it which is traversed by the moving line in the instrument , the successive pencils ( or rather ribbons ) of emitted light passing through all degrees of refrangibility .
It is evident that if this opal is slowly passed across the slit of the spectrum-microscope , the slit will be successively illuminated with light of gradually increasing refrangibility , and the appearance of a moving luminous line will be produced ; and if transmitted light is used for illumination , the reversal of the phenomena will cause the production of a black line moving along a coloured field .
A diagonal line will be produced if an opal of this character is examined in a sloping position .
The phenomenon of a spiral line in relief , rolling along as the opal is moved , is doubtless caused by modifying planes at different depths and connected by cross planes ; I can form a mental picture of a structure which would produce this effect , but not clear enough to enable me to describe it in words .
It is probable that similar phenomena may be seen in many , if not all , bodies which reflect coloured light after the manner of opals .
A magnificent specimen of Lumacelli , or Fiery Limestone , from Italy , kindly presented to me by my friend David Forbes , shows two sharp narrow and parallel bands in the red .
I have also observed similar appearances in mother-of-pearl .
The effects can be imitated to a certain extent by examining " ( Newton 's rings , " formed between two plates of glass , in the spectrum-instrument .

