New Experimental Researches on some of the leading Doctrines of Caloric ; particularly on the Relation betioeen the Elasticity , Temperature , and latent Heat of different Vapours ; and on Tlhermometric Admeasurement and Capacity .
By Andrew Ur , M.D. Communicated by W. H. Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read April 30 , .
1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 338 .
] This paper is divided into three sections .
In the first the author , after taking an historical view of the different experiments undertaken by Robinson , Watt , Dalton , Biot , and some others , relating to the elastic force of vapours arising from different bodies at different temperatures , and after pointing out the sources of error and imperfection to which they are liable , proceeds to describe the apparatus which he employed , which is further illustrated by an annexed drawing .
The space which contains the vapour for experiment is about half an inch of a barometer tube , against which the oblong bulb of a delicate thermometer rests so as to indicate the true tenmperature .
The contrivance is such , that though the liquid and incumbent vapour are restricted to the summit of the tube , , its progressive range of elasticity may be measured from 0 ?
to 2000 above the boiling point of water , or from an elasticity of 0 07 inch to that capable of sustaining 36 feet of mercury , without heating the mercurial column itself .
In this section of the paper are several tables of results , showing the elastic force of the vapour of water in inches of mercury , at temperatures between 24 ?
and 312 ?
; and also that of alcohol , ether , oil of turpentine , and naphtha .
The second section of Dr. Ure 's paper relates to thermometric admeasurement , and to the doctrine of capacity .
He does not consider the thermometer liable to the uncertainties which are supposed to belong to it by Mr. Dalton , but that it is an equable measure of heat , in consequence of its possessing an increasing rate of expansion , and which is compensated for by a quantity of the quicksilver , getting out of the bulb into the tube , and consequently out of the action of the heat , the bulh being the only part heated in all ordinary cases .
In the third section , relating to the latent heat of different vapours , Dr , Ur details experiments made to ascertain the caloric existing in different vapours , and the temperatures at which they respectively acquire the same elastic force .
The apparatus employed consisted of a small glass retort only , the globular receiver being surrounded by a certain quantity of water of known temperature .
Two hundred grains of the liquid , whose vapour was to be examined , were rapidly distilled from this retort into the globe , and the rise of temperature in the surrounding water became the measure of the latent heat .
A table follows , exhibiting the experimental results on the latent heat of several vapours : whence it appears that 9670 is the latent heat of steam , 442 ?
that of alcohol ; of ether , 302 30 ; of oil of turpentine and of petroleum , 1778 ?
; of nitric acid , 531-9 ?
; of liquid ammonia , 837'2 ?
; and of vinegar , 875 ? .
The paper concludes with a proposal for employing the vapour of alcohol in certain cases , for the purpose of propelling machinery .

