]\gt ; I886 .
] On the Reflexion of Light from Iceland Spar : IV .
" " On the Effect of Polish on the Reflexion of Light from the Surface of Iceland Spar By C. SPURGE , B.A. , .
Catherine 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by R. T. GLAZEBROOK , M.A. , F.R. .
Received November 18 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The most complete experiments which have been hitherto instituted to determine the optical effect of polishing the surface of a transparent body are those of Seebeck , described in ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' vol. 20 , 1830 , p. 27 ; vol. 21 , 1831 , p. 290 .
Seebeck 's method was to quenoh , as far as possible , the reflected light with a Nicol , and to measure the angle of incidence .
It was from a change in the angle of incidence , i.e. , the angle of polarisation , that an aIteration of the state of the surface was inferred .
This method is open to the objection that the light is completely quenched , and , therefore , since the effect of polishing as observed by Seebeck was not very large , our concJusions as regards the .
surface state may be modified .
Besides , the investigation is incomplete , for the precise change produced in the reflected light by polishing is not determined .
The present paper , of which this is an abstract , is an account of experiments made to determine with greater accuracy the effect of polishing the surface of a crystal of Iceland spar , and also the exact alteration produced in the reflected light , i.e. , the change in the ratio of the axes of the ellipss , and in the azimuth of the major axis of the polarised light .
To effect this , an elliptic analyser , consisting of a Nicol and a quarter undulation plate , was employed .
If be the mean readings of moveable verniers attached to the Nicol in the two dist , inct positions in which the light is extinguisbed , and similar readings of fixed verniers which determine the azimnth of the quarter plate , then , the ratio of the axes , and I , the azimuth of the major axis of the elliptically polarised light , were calculated from the formulae\mdash ; and I Especial care was taken to secure fixity of position in all permanent parts of the instrument , and in the setting of the face of the stal , since a small change was to be detected .
A first series of experiments was made with light reflected from a natural face , and with light reflected from the same face polished .
The polishing was performed by myself , and precautions On the flexion of Light flom loeland Spar .
[ Deo .
1$ were taken that the polishing was effected under exactly the same conditions .
To ensure that the face was polished parallel to itself , the inelinations of the face to fixed faces were measured before and after polishing .
Tho mean of a , bout 400 readings was taken with each state of the face of the , to obtain as accurate a resuIt as possible .
A second series of experiments was instituted with a view to determine the accuracy with which the means of each of the previous sets of observations could be determined .
At the same time , a simple analyser , consisting of a Nicol and a graduated circle , was set up in addition to the elliptic , with the object of testing the conclusions of Sir John CoIlroy as polished surfaces , which are given in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Soeiety ' for February , 1886 .
The effect of rotation of the face of the crystal through a smaU angle in its own plane is also discussed .
The tions are divided into sets , the means of which are compared with eaoh other .
Lastly , a set of experiments was made with a cleavage face split off near the former , and the results of these experiments were compared with those of the first sel.ies made some fifteen months previously .
The results of the experiments are embodied in tables , from which the following numerical results are extracted .
I ' in the ease of the simple analyser corresponds to I for the elliptic analyser .
The general conclusions of the paper are as follows:\mdash ; The process of polishing the surface of a crystal of Iceland spar with emery and does most certainly alter the state of the surface .
This alteration is evinced by a change both in the ratio of the axes and in the azimuth of the major axis of the elliptically polarised light .
Such an alteration was observed in the case of different crystals which were made the subject of experiment .
The light reflected is shown to be exceedingly nearly plane polarised , so that the absolute amotlnt of change in the ratio of the axes is small ; but the relative change is considerable , for is changed from to .
The change in the azimuth of the major axis is not very large .
As regards disturbing causes , it proved that moderate changes of temperature do not cause any very alteration in the surface state .
The experiments prove a result unnoticed by Seebeck , that an emery-rouge polished surface gives perfectly concordant results on repolishing , and in this respect is quite as satisfactory as the chalk-polished surface that Seebeck recommends .
And in general the results of the paper tend eonfirm the views of Seebeck rather than those oi Sir J. Conroy , for @ebeck in his paper prefers polished surfaces beoaUse of the liability of the natural sudaoe to tarnish. .
1886 .
] Contribu to the Chemistry of EI ?
0 .
02723 Ist Series . . . .
iptic ayserIInd Saeeame a reset). . . . . . . .
eavage)IIIrd S face .
Effect of time. .
ished f Jan. ptic analyser .
V. " " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. IL\ldquo ; By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1886 .
Abstract .
) In thia paper the author continues his account of the properties of phyllocyanin , one of the products of the action of acids on chlorophyU .
He shows that by passing a current of through an alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin holding oxide of zinc in suspension , a compound is obtained containing zinc and carbonic acid , a phyllocyanin zinc carbonate resembling phyllocyaniu zinc acetate , but hat no analogous compounds containlng iron or copper are formed in this way .
Attention is directed to the points of resemblance belween the double compounds of phyllocyanin containing zinc and chlorophyll itself , particularly regards their susceptibility to ohange when exposed to the action of air and light , and is shown that while

