A paper was read ce On the Inflexion of Light .
" By John Barton , Esq. Communicated by Davies Gilbert , Esq. V.P.R.S. The design of the author in undertaking the experiments of which he gives an account in the present paper , is to carry on the investigation of the phenomena of the inflexion of light from the point at which it was left by Newton .
He begins by examining these phenomena in their simplest form , comparing the appearance of the shadow of an opaque body on a screen of white paper at different distances , with the appearance it would exhibit if the rays passed by the edge of the body , without suffering any deviation from a rectilinear course .
It is well known that , under these circumstances , the real shadow is broader than the geometrical shadow , indicating a deflexion of the rays from the edge of the intercepting body .
By varying the distances at which the observations are taken , it is found that the rays are not bent at a sharp angle , but pursue a curvilinear course , the concavity of which is towards the shadow , the curve itself resembling an hyperbola .
A luminous halo also appears beyond the shadow 3 the breadth of this halo agreeing accurately , at all distances , with the space which the penumbra should occupy , if the rays were not bent .
The author thinks it impossible to reconcile the explanation of these phenomena given by Newton , with his own hypothesis concerning the action of solid bodies on light , as stated in the " Principia : " for , in that hypothesis , the rays passing nearest to the edge of an intercept ?
ing body are supposed to be bent towards the edge , as if attracted ; whereas the explanation proceeds upon the supposition that they are bent from that body , as if repelled .
The actual hyperbolic course of the rays is also inconsistent with that hypothesis , which would assign to them a parabolic path .
It also appears that the breadth of the spectrum made by receiving the sun 's rays through an aperture one tenth of an inch , or more , in width , is less than if the rays proceeded in straight lines 3 but if the aperture is very much diminished , the result is reversed , the real spectrum being broader than the geometrical spectrum .
The author conceives , that the whole of the observed phenomena will admit of explanation , by assuming that light consists of material particles , endowed with a power of mutual repulsion , in which case they would obey the laws of elastic fluids ; and the course of the rays might admit of comparison with the motions of the particles of air , or other similarly constituted fluids , in flowing past an obstacle opposed to their progress .
He shows how this hypothesis furnishes an explanation of the deflexion of the rays , and of the curvature of their path 3 and why that path resembles an hyperbola .
He supports this theory by the analogy of the laws of heat , considered as the properties of a material fluid , with those of light ; both exhibiting the phenomena of reflexion , refraction , and polarization .
The author is inclined to believe that , besides the deflecting force , the presence of which is already established , there exists also an inflecting force , which bends some of the rays towards the intercepting body ; and states a variety of considerations in support of this fact .
He explains , on the same principles , the phenomena described by Newton under the appellation ofjits ofeasy reflexion and easy trans ?
mission , which Dr. Young has explained on the undulatory theory , by the principle of interferences ; but which may be considered as analogous to the alternating movements of elastic fluids striking against an opposing body , or entering by a narrow aperture ; move ?
ments which , in air , give rise to vibrations constituting musical sounds .

