1880 .
] Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson .
On a 383 subsides , but very slowly .
The nearer the wire , and the longer it remains hot , the greater the electrical difference produced , and the longer the time required for its subsidence .
Corresponding results are obtained by touching the surface , in the manner before described , with a camel-hair pencil , containing solution of common salt .
The immediate result is to render the surface so acted upon positive to the other surface .
Here , as before , the effect rapidly subsides .
If now , the application is repeated or a stronger solution is used , the first effect is the same , but it is followed by a slow deflection of the needle in the opposite direction .
It is important to notice that , in both modes of acting on the surface of the ventricle , the primary effect ( that of increased " positivity " of the warmed or slightly injured surface ) is , when measured in electromotive force , inconsiderable .
After warming , we have never observed a greater difference than O003 volt .
When the solution of salt is used the effect may amount to as much as OOOl volt .
The subsequent negative effect varies according to the extent and degree of the injury , and may , as stated in our former paper , amount to from two to three hundredths of a volt .
Another question relating to the physiological condition of the resting heart is that of the influence of temperature on its excitability .
We have estimated the excitability of the ventricle by measuring , at different temperatures , galvanometrically , the strength of the weakest induction shock by which a response could be evoked , and have arrived at the general result that , when the temperature is raised from 10 ' C. to 30 ' C. , the excitability increases by one-third or one-sixtieth for each degree .
The suggestion offers itself that the two new facts which have been stated , viz. , the slight positivity of the warmed surface and the increased excitability are correlated , but it is of no value , excepting as an indication for further experiments .
The full account of the experiments , of which the results are shortly communicated above , will be published in the " Journal of Physiology .
" II .
" On a New Rheotome .
" By J. Burdon-Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Physiology , University College .
Received May 5 , 1880 .
I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society the following description of an instrument intended for the purpose of investigating the successive phases of the electrical change which takes place in the excitable parts of plants and animals in consequence of excitation .
I wo instruments intended for a similar purpose are already in use .
One ot them , known as the differential or repeating rheotome , was devised by Pro- 384 Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson .
On a New Rheotome .
[ May 13 fessor Bernstein , and described by him in bis work " On the Excitation !
Process in the Nervous and Muscular Systems , " published in 1871 *1 The other is called by its contriver , Professor Hermann , the Pall ' Rheotome , and is described in a paper published in " Pfliiger 's Archiv " in 1877 .
I have given a short account of it , which will be found in the " Journal of Physiology " ( vol. i , p. 196 ) .
In each of these instruments , as also in the instrument now to be described , two independent circuits , one of which may be called the exciting circuit , the other the galvanoscopic , are successively closed and immediately afterwards opened by a mechanism of such a nature that the time-interval between the two closures and ( as regards the galvanoscopic circuit ) the duration of the period of closure may be varied according to the purpose of the observation , and accurately measured .
In the fall rheotome each of the times required is determined by the measurement of the distance which a falling weight passes through in the interval between the first and second event , as , e.g. , between the closure of the exciting and galvanoscopic circuits and between the closure and opening of the latter .
In Bernstein 's rheotome time is measured in terms of the rotation-time of a wheel , which is driven by an electro-magnetic motor .
Without making any comparison between the instrument now to be described and its predecessors , or venturing to claim for it any superiority , I think I am justified in bringing it under the notice of the Royal Society , on the ground that in very numerous experiments it has been found well adapted for its purpose , and that the value of the results obtained by means of it could not be so well estimated by the reader without a knowledge of the construction and mode of action of the instrument used .
Description of the Instrument .
From a circular iron plate , supported on levelling screws , spring two strong brass pillars , each 6 centims. in height , on the summits of which rests a horizontal bar .
In the middle of the bar is a screw , which ends below in a steel point .
A similar steel point rises from the centre of the iron plate .
On these centres works a vertical axis about 5 centims. in length .
The steel point on which the lower end of the axis works is surrounded by a circular plate of vulcanite about '5 centim. thick .
In this plate are cut eight pools , of which the forms are shown in the diagram ( fig. 1 ) .
They are intended to contain mercury and are traversed by platinum wires , of which the arrangement is such that the pools , a , a , a , a , and \amp ; , b9 b , b9 are severally connected with each other/ The two rings of wire are insulated and are connected the one with the binding-screw , G , the other to the binding-screw , GV * Untersuchungen iiber den Erregungsvorgang im If erven- und Muskelsysfceirte , " von J. Bernstein .
Heidelberg , 1871 .
1880 .
] Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson .
On a 385 The fixed circular plate above described is surrounded by a moveable nnular plate of the same material and thickness , which also has eight excavations or pools , all of which can be brought into communication Fig. 1 .
by means of an annular trough of mercury by which they are surrounded .
To the outer edge of the annular plate is fixed a graduated circle of brass , which revolves with it .
Against this circle woiks a tangent screw , each turn of which corresponds to a single division of the graduation ; this screw is furnished with a divided milled head and can be thrown out of gear when necessary by the auxiliary screw , in a manner which will be readily understood from the drawing .
The vertical axis carries at its upper end a pulley , by means of which it is connected with a motor , and can be made to revolve at any desired rate .
Above the pulley is a platinum wire , the end of which is bent downwards so as to dip into an annular pool of mercury , which is in metallic connexion with the horizontal bar , and thereby with the iron plate and the binding screw B ' .
The vertical axis also carries three arms , of which one is longer than the other two ; the longer arm carries at its end the vertical screw g ; this screw is prolonged at its lower end by an amalgamated gold wire , the end of which dips into the mercury contained in the external pool , as the axis rotates .
This arm is insulated at c , but is connected with the axis , and thereby through the annular pool above described with the binding screw B .
As the external pools are connected through the arm h with the binding screw B , B and B are in communication whenever the screw g is in contact with the mercury in any of the pools .
Each pool is fur-nished with a vulcanite stop , by which it is thrown out of communication with the external pool .
In the drawing- all are thus out of communication excepting one .
The two shorter arms are in metallic connexion with each other , but are insulated from the axis by a collar of vulcanite d. One of them carries a screw e , which like g ends in a gold wire , of which the 'tip is amalgamated ; the other carries a similar screw / , and is so constructed that the screw/ can be moved radially ( i.e. , in a vertical \#171 ; Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson . .
On a Hheotome .
[ May 1 51880 .
] On the Chemical Composition of Aleurone-Grains .
887 lane which contains the axis of rotation ) to any required distance ?
Hip axis .
The two arms meet each other at an angle of 45 .
r'From the form and arrangement of the internal pools ( see fig. 1 ) .
, ig evident that whenever the screw e is in contact with any of the j1 lB i b , b , b , the screw / must be in contact with the pools , a , a , a fjo\ 2\gt ; , and further inasmuch as / is nearer the axis than e , the times at which e makes and breaks contact with the pool b must respectively precede and follow those at which contact with the pool a is made and broken by / .
Consequently the time during which both are in contact ( i.e. , during which the circuit G G is closed ) is determined solely by the duration of the immersion of / , and can be varied by altering its distance from the centre .
When it is desired to use the rheotome for investigating the effects of series of excitations recurring at short intervals ( tetanus of muscle or nerve ) , all the pools are equally filled with mercury . .
Their equality must be tested by interpolating each set of pools in the circuit of a Grove 's cell , which also includes a recording chrono-I " rapp .
if the chronographic record shows that the durations of the contacts are not perfectly equal , the error must be corrected by adding or subtracting mercury .
For investigating the effects of _ single excitations , only one of the external and one couple of the internal pools are used .
The drawing ( fig. 2 ) shows the arrangement of the apparatus as used in the investigations made by Mr. Page and myself of the elec trical phenomena of the ventricle of the heart of the frog .
ie instrument is set so that the external contact is broken at a momen ivhich immediately precedes the immersion of/ : consequently the galvanometer circuit G G'is open at the moment of excitation , bub .
closed immediately after , remaining closed so long as / is immersed .
By means of the tangent screw , the interval between the opening o the exciting circuit B B ' , and the closing of the galvanometer circuit G G ' , can be varied at will .
in .
" On the Chemical Composition of Aleurone-Grains .
By S. H. Vines , M.A. , D.Se .
, Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Michael Foster , M.D. , Pro-led or of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambiidge .
IP ceived April 1 , 1880 .
In a former communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 28 , p. 218 ) I gave an account of an investigation of the aleurone-grams of the blue lupin .
The following is an abstract of the results arrived at by the investigation of the grains of some other seeds by the same methods : \#151 ;

