1890 .
] Development of the Brain of Clupea harengus .
199 ( 2 .
) That a compound exists in certain urines which under the influence of a fermentation yields cystin .
( 3 .
) That the fermentation is due to the growth of an organism , which can apparently be separated from the urine by ordinary filtration , and must therefore be a large organism , possibly a torula .
( 4 .
) That the cases recorded in which cystin has been found deposited in the kidneys and liver indicate that the fermentation may begin in the system .
III .
" Some Stages in the Development of the Brain of Clupea harengus fBy Ernest W. L. Holt , Marine Laboratory , St. Andrews .
Communicated by Professor MclNTOSH , F.R.S. Received February 11 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The stages described are ( i ) newly-hatched or early larval ; ( ii ) early post-larval ; ( iii ) inch long ; ( iv ) ^-inch long .
The development of the pineal region is treated separately , and in this a fifth stage\#151 ; ly^-inch long\#151 ; is introduced .
In the early larval stage the downward flexure of the fore part of the brain is very noticeable .
It appears due to the general conformation of head at this stage .
The cerebral lobes are short ; the anterior commissure is well marked .
The white matter of the cerebrum is divided into two patches on each side , from the most ventral of which the short stout olfactory nerves pass to the bases of the nasal sacs , now closely opposed to the cerebrum .
The roof of the cerebrum is very thin , passing into the thicker roof of the thalamencephalon .
The tips of the optic thalami are wholly vesicular .
A diverticulum of the 3rd ventricle extends downwards and backwards , its distal extremity underlying the optic commissure .
The broad ventral commissure of the infundibulum , noticed in Anarrhicas , * is well marked .
A commissure shuts off the lumen of the infundibulum from the hind part of the 3rd ventricle immediately in front of the splitting off of the infundibulum .
The optic ventricles do not appear in the front part of the mid-brain , and are only partially developed further back .
The tori semicirculares are present in the hind part of the mid-brain as mounds on either side of the central fissure of the cerebral mass .
The valvula appears in transverse section as a pair of ridges externally to the tori , before it shuts off the aqueduct of Sylvius .
rl he cerebellar fold is very short ; the pituitary body is a roundish mass of deeply staining cells , opposed ventrally to the membranous roof of the mouth , and clasped in front and at the sides * McIntosh and Prince , ' Edinb .
Roy .
Soc. Trans.vol .
35 .
Mr. E. W. L. Holt .
Some Stages in [ Feb. 20 , by the walls of the infundibulum .
These break down above the body , except for a fine cellular membrane .
Behind the body is seen the tapering , downwardly-bent anterior end of the notochord .
In the early post-larval stage * " an apparent rectification of the cranial axis " has taken place , by the upward rotation of the cerebrum on its posterior end , doubtless owing to the rapid development of the oral and trabecular cartilages , and consequent forward rotation of the mouth .
The same causes have also operated so as to withdraw the diverticulum of the 3rd ventricle from its position below the optic commissure .
Changes are noticed in the arrangement of the nervous tissues .
The olfactory nerves are longer , and the nasal sacs further from the brain .
The fibrous bridge over the 3rd ventricle ( behind the pineal body ) , terminating with the posterior commissure , is well marked .
The tips of the tectum lobi optici are seen above it .
The bases of the optic thalami ( walls of the thalamencephalon ) have increased in breadth .
The mid-brain is comparatively large , and the optic ventricles much more advanced .
The cerebellar fold rapidly thins out in the middle , assuming the form , in transverse section , of thick lateral elements united by a cellular band .
The infundibulum has undergone vertical flattening .
The future lobi inferiores are indicated as lateral expansions , behind which the 3rd oculomotor nerves pass outwards from the centre of the ventral surface of the cerebral mass .
The infundibulum extends some way back above the notochord as a thin-walled sac .
Its walls are little plicated compared with those in some other forms , e.g. , f In the ^-inch stage the olfactory lobes appear as bulbous masses projecting from the front end of the cerebrum .
Fibres can be traced from the optic nerves up to the fore part of the optic lobes .
A pale median septum appears between the anterior extremities of the lateral optic ventricles , its base resting on the fibrous tract over the hind part of the 3rd ventricle .
The tip of the valvula now appears in transverse section before its connexion with the cerebral mass can be made out , having thus grown forward .
The cerebellum has greatly increased in size : instead of terminating as before on the surface of the brain , it is now continued into a thick fold bent sharply down on the anterior portion ; its posterior end passes at once into the thin roof of the 4th ventricle .
Two fibrous bands cross over the aqueduct of Sylvius in the substance of the cerebellum ; their lateral extremities are fused .
The lobi inferiores are better marked than in earlier stages .
Longitudinal bands of fibres pass back from the roots of the oculomotor nerves through the medulla oblongata .
Groups of large ganglionic cells appear on either side of these bands , * Balfour , 'Development of Elasmobranch Fishes .
' f Stieda , ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' 1869 .
X McIntosh and Prince , op cit. 1890 .
] Development of the Brain of Clupea harengus .
201 and are connected by a fine commissure passing through both bands .
At the origin of the VIII auditory nerves , this commissure is replaced by a St. Andrew 's cross of fibres , the dorsal limbs of the cross passing to the nerve roots , and the ventral to the ganglionic areas .
In the f-inch stage the olfactory lobes are more elongated .
The olfactory nerves pass outwards from their anterior extremities .
The septum behind the pineal body is larger , and contains a few very large cells .
The septum , after losing its ventral connexion with the fibrous tract over the 3rd ventricle , persists for some way back as a cellular leaf-like appendage of the thin median roof of the optic ventricle ; a few fibres pass back into this appendage .
The optic nerves are longer , from the outward displacement of the eyes .
They are very stout and solid , and from their roots fibres may be very easily traced into the optic lobes. .
Fibres are seen passing from the cerebral mass across the optic ventricle , external to the tori , to the tectum lobi optici .
The flattening of the brain , noticed by McIntosh and Prince in the herring of inch , is intensified at this stage , and the brain is also much elongated .
Large ganglionic cells appear in the tori semicirculares about the region of the splitting off of the-infundibulum .
The white matter of the tectum lobi optici is very conspicuous , and shows traces of three cellular layers in its substance .
A circular pale area appears amongst the vesicular matter on either side of the valvula .
The lobi pos-teriores are present .
Behind them the walls of the medulla approach each other dorsally , shutting off the central canal from the 4th ventricle .
The walls recede again further back before finally closing opposite the last trace of the auditory capsule .
From behind the region of the auditory nerves a ganglionic area on either side persists backwards through the medulla oblongata .
The cerebellum has increased in bulk ; its anterior dorsal angle is carried forward .
The fibrous bands previously noticed are carried further back , and now lie clear of the optic lobes .
Three smaller fibrous bands occur behind them .
In the herring of lyV inch the two first fibrous bands are fused together .
Pineal Region .
The roof of the tlialamencephalon in the early stages is a single layer of large columnar cells passing forward from the front wall of the pineal stalk .
It passes into the roof of the cerebrum , the cells diminishing greatly in size .
The superior commissure of Osborn is present from the early post-larval stage ; it is also present in the larval and post-larval Zoarces viviparus , where it is distinctly double .
1 he first signs of the infrapineal recess of Hoffmann are seen in the Dr. J. Gnezda .
[ Feb. 20 , l.incli stage .
It is thus much later in developing than in Salmo ; * and the fold forming its front wall never extends backwards to the same degree as in that form and in Anarrhiccis .
This fold , in the post-larval Zoarces , is thickened in its apex , and lodges a fine commissure .
As pointed out by Balfour in Elasmobranchs the fold is due to the upward rotation of the cerebrum .
The fibrous tract over the 3rd ventricle in the herring is well marked in the f-inch stage .
It is seen to consist of fibres passing upwards and inwards from the optic thalami to the middle line above the 3rd ventricle , and then running forward to the stalk of the pineal body .
The tract has a double nature , as is readily seen in vertical longitudinal sections of a herring 1TV inch long .
It is seen here to be a backwardly directed fold of the brain roof , continuous ventrally with the back wall of the pineal stalk , and dorsally with the roof of the optic ventricle , the apex of the fold being the posterior commissure .
Its length in this form is due to the flattening of the brain , the tract being very short in Zoarces , where the brain is not flattened .
In Zoarces , also , from the same cause , the limbs of the fold are less closely applied to each other and much thicker .
The pineal body is roundish and solid in the early larval stage in the herring .
It is vertically flattened in the early post-larval stage .
In the ^-inch stage it is much larger and contains a lumen ; it shows signs of constriction into proximal and dist al elements , and the lumen contains a coagulabhralbuminous fluid , as in .
f In the l_.i_.inch stage the constriction is still visible , and the walls are generally crenated .
The tissues of the pineal wall are now divided into three layers , and are of varying thickness .
The cartilage of the tegumen cranii overlies the body at this stage .
The constriction of the body appears to be an .
exaggeration of the crenation of the pineal wall met with in Salmo ; it has not , , probably , the morphological value of the constriction of the body in Petromyzon .
IV .
" A Cyanogen Reaction of Proteids .
" By J. Gnezda , M.D. Communicated by Professor E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Received December 19 , 1839 .
When dry urea is heated to its melting point it gives off ammonia , and a substance called biuret ( CgNgHgOg ) remains behind .
Biuiet is decomposed by heat into ammonia and cyanuric acid ( C3H3H3O3 ) .
* Hoffmann , " Sir Ontogenie der Knochenfische , " 'Arch .
Mikrosk .
Anat .
, ' vol. 23 , 1884 .
t Beard , " Parietal Eye in Cyclostomatous Fishes , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , ' 1889 .

