]\gt ; cnrrents of strength sufficient to cause measureable amounts of electrolytic decomposition outside the cell , e.g. , in a silver voltameter .
II .
' Clausius 's Fol'mula for the Change of State from Liquid to Gas applied to Messrs. Ramsay and Young 's Observations on Alcohol By GEO .
FIiAS .
FITZGERALD , M.A. , F.T.C.D. , F.B.S. , Erasmus Smith 's Professor of Natural and Experimental Philosophy in the University of Dublin .
Received March 14 , 1887 .
Clausius , in Wiedemann 's 'Annalen , ' vol. 14 , 1881 , pp. 279\mdash ; 290 , and ' Phil. Mag vol. 12 , 1881 , p. 381 , and vol. 13 , 1882 , p. 132 , has given an empirical formula for calculating the relation between the volume , pressure , and temperature of a substance in both liquid and gaseous states .
The equation he gives is a continuous one for an isothermal , and he determines the pressure at which evaporation takes place by considering that the work done in the transformation from liquid to gas at a constant pressure must be equal to what would be done if the transformation took place along the continuous isothermal .
He requires , for convenience in applying this to actual cases , to calcufor the Change of State from Liquid to Gas .
217 the values of certain rather complicated exponential functions , and has published tables of their values which greatly facilitate ) work of comparing his formula with observations of vapour-pressures at ations opressure , byAndrewsandRegnaultofcarbon ated t critical pressure to be 134 atmospheres .
Professor Ramsay has kindly furnished me with his and Mr. Young 's observations on alcohol , and I have compared them with Clausius 's formula , with which they agree very well .
The formula Clausins has given may be described as follows:\mdash ; The relation connecting the volume , pressure , and temperature of a substance can be expressed by the formula\mdash ; In this , and are constants for each substance , is the pressure , the specific volume , the absolute temperature , and is a function of the temperature which vanishes with , and for which Clausius has given the formula\mdash ; in which and are constants for any one substance , and and the values of and at the critical temperature .
From a consideration of the isothermals represented by Clausius 's formula it is easy to show that the critical isothermal , for which two of the tangents parallel to the axis from which pressures are measured coincide , gives\mdash ; As the combination occurs frequently , Clausius denotes it by .
He expresses the specific volumes of the saturated liquid and gas by and , and uses and for and respectively .
He also uses the symbol ) where is the saturated vapour-pressure , and subscribes , thus , to express the value of any of these quantities at the critical point .
Hence we get\mdash ; There is a misprint of on the last line of the text , formula 7 , of p. 185 of Clausius 's second paper in the 'Phil .
Mag vol. 13 .
7.for the Change of State from Liquid to Gas .
obtained by ] from CIausius 's tables .
From Ithese , and are calculated and compared with observation .
{ It is from this comparison of with the volume of the liquid at various temperatures and pressures that it is evident that is not constant , for the difference between calculated and as observed is by no means so .
The following table exhibits some of my resuIts:\mdash ; In some of these cases , as for example for at C. , it is very difficult to interpolate accurately into Clausius 's tables , and for the values of near the critical point , and I consequently do not attribute much accuracy to these values .
On the whole , however , I think that , considering the enormous range of values to be represented by the formula , it is most remarkably accurate .
When we compare the calcuIated and observed volumes of the liquid , in which case is of importance , we find that no constant value for can make them agree , for obviously diminishes lvith increased temperature , and near the critical point the value of for the liquid and gaseous states is not the same .
All this means of course that Clausius 's formula does not apply accurately to the case of alcohol .
Clausius has not , as far as I can find , applied his formula to calculate the volumes of liquids , and without doing so the want of constancy in old not appreciably aflect the resuIt .
Messrs. Ramsay and Young have made observations of the volume of the liquid at various temperatures and pressures , and I have compared some of their results with the formula .
In this way it can be seen must be made a function of the pressure as well as of the temperature .
I have calculated the values of at certain temperatures pressures , and at C.\mdash ; us for Change of Liquid to Gas .
states 221 the usual methods , owing to the instability of the states they resent .
Clausius 's equation may be put into the following form by assuming and @ From this it is .
evident that an isothermal is a quartic curve having If we calculate the positions of the points of tangency of tangents rallel to , forwhich consequently , we have the cubic equatioh\mdash ; when .
of its roots are equal and this determines the isothermal .
The quartic consists of three branches .
One , serpentine branch , lies in ths positive region of and mostly of , and is the only branch of physical interesb at present .
The other two branches lie entirely in the negative region of and .
One of these is somewhatparabolic , and hes between and asymptotic to both of them , the other is hyperbolic and asymptotic to and to .
The always real solution of the cubic that determines the points where for positive values of and is a point on the parabolic branch of the curve that lies between and The other two roots , when real , determins the highest and lowest points on the serpentine part of the curve that lies in the positive region of .
The accompanying diagram represents the general FIG. 1 { rom the origin compared with the dimensions of the serpentine part of the positiye branch , so that it is not easy to represent them both in the same figure .
I have calculated several points on the isothermals corresponding to C. , C. , and C. C. is the isothermal that just touches , while C. is the critical isothermal .
The dotted lines represent the saturated vapour-tensions for which the areas included in the loops of the curve above and below are equal .
The points numbered 1 , 2 , 8 , 4 ars ally noticsable points on curves so numbered in the general feature diagrams .
The isothermal 11 C. goes down at the pointl entirely outsido diagram to a pressure of -246,800 mm. , and intersects its vapourpressure line outside the diagram to the right at a volume of 206 .
The negative parabolic branch of this isothermal only comes up at the point 3 to a pressure of mm. , while the points of C. and C. come only to mm. and mm. , so that they are far off .
In the isothermal C. the point lies at about , so that it is not very far off .
What strikes me as most remarkable about these curves and othel

