224 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Researches on the Structure , [ Mar. 1 , In fact u 0p 3n_0m dx ~dy v w oP 0L_0N dy dz dx 0P 0m_0l dz ^ dx dy where P is the potential function ( 2"Z)S } + [ z+2("s+")i(jrj^)i ] ( *-Z\gt ; 0N oM 0L 7 .
The expressions \#151 ; cannot be taken 8m_0l die dz ' dz dx ' dx die by themselves to represent the velocities inside and outside the ' ellipsoid , for , though they would furnish continuous values of the velocities at the surface of the ellipsoid , they would not make the pressure continuous .
Y. " Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 1 .
On the Therosuchia .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) This paper discusses the classification of reputed Permian and Triassic Reptilia which have been referred to the Anomodontia as Theriodonts .
Lycosaurus , as the genus placed first on the Sir R. Owen 's list , is accepted as the type of the Theriodontia .
The species Lycosaurus curvimola is regarded as the type of the genus , being the only species in which its characters are fully shown .
Galesaurus planiceps , which was the type of the Cynodontia , is probably distinct from Nythosaurus larvatus , and from Sir R. Owen 's second type of Galesaurus planiceps of 1887 , which is referred to as Thrinaxodon liorJiinus .
JElurosaurus felinus agrees with Galesaurus in having a transverse development of bones of the palate , regarded as palatine and transverse , which abut toward the inner side of the lower jaw .
The palate in this genus is found to be covered with groups of small teeth with conical crowns , !
jg94 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil Reptilia .
225 which are unknown in Lycosaurus .
The palate of Lycosaurus mola is found and described in the type specimen .
It shows a transverse development of the palatine arch abutting against the lower jaw , behind which is a long compressed sphenoidal keel flanked by narrow pterygoid bones .
The occipital condyles do not appear to be prominently developed in Lycosaurus .
The genus is regarded as the type of a division of the Theriodontia , defined by having the molar teeth pointed and without cusps .
A snout from Tamboer , named Pristerognathus polyodon , is referred to this group .
It is characterised by six incisor teeth in each premaxillary bone and three incisor teeth in each ramus of the mandible , followed by canine teeth and small molars of Lycosaurian type .
Professor Cope 's definition of the Theriodontia as distinguished from the Anomodontia by characters of the post-orbital arch is regarded as unsupported by evidence .
The author would limit the Theriodontia to animals which conform to Sir R. Owen 's original definition based on the dentition ( 1876 ) , and have temporal vacuities and a small quadrate bone .
It would then include the Lycosauria , with t type Lycosaurus curvimola ; the Cynodontia , with Gynognathus cratero-notus ( n.sp .
) and Thrinaxodon liorhinus as types ; and a group of South African Reptiles named Gomphodontia , based upon new genera Gomphognathus and Trirachodon , which have the molar teeth with flattened cuspidate crowns more or less worn with use .
The palate is formed on the type of Lycosaurus in these Theriodontia .
Gorgonops is closely allied to Theriodonts in its dentition ( though no molar teeth are known ) .
The skull is closed behind as in Kiste-cephalus , and the temporal vacuities are .
roofed .
It appears to show a palate formed on the same plan as in Theriodontia so far as its transverse development is concerned , but it has not any hard palate extending above the posterior nares as in Theriodontia .
It is regarded as the type of a distinct group , named Gorgonopsia .
The Pareiasauria have the same transverse palatine arch , abutting | against the lower jaw , but not developed downward to the same extent , as in Theriodontia .
Its hard palate appears to be carried back behind the teeth , so that the posterior nares are further back I than in the Theriodontia .
It differs from the Theriodontia in the I 8bght development of the coronoid process of the lower jaw , and in having the temporal vacuities roofed ; and from the Gorgonopsia in J having the skull open behind , and in having no canine teeth .
| , \#153 ; he Endothiodont type is believed to show the transverse descendj palatal arch between the rami of the mandible .
Pristerodon is regarded as possibly Endothiodont ; and Endothiodon uniseries is ra\amp ; de the type of a genus Esoterodon .
A small skull from Molteno ass , Gryptocynodonsimus ( n.sp .
) , is regarded*as an Endothiodont *ith imperfectly-developed canine teeth .
The Endothiodontia have 226 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Researches on the [ Mar. 1 , no incisor teeth , have the hard palate imperfectly developed , and no eoronoid process to the lower jaw .
Another South African group is regarded as indicated by gnathus , Tapinocephalus , and a new genus named Dinocephalus , which has the largest tusks known in any South African genus , associated with small molars .
In the typical genera the skull bones are very-thick and the temporal vacuities small .
JElurosaurus is probably to be placed in this group .
It is referred to as Dinocephalia .
Thus there is a series of groups of South African Reptilia which appear to agree in having a palate which has some resemblances to Mammals but approximates to Sp Lizards , and Crocodiles .
All these sub-orders are combined as the Therosuchia .
In this order or group may be included the Deuterosauria from the Permian rocks of Russia .
The Deuterosauria is distinguished from the Theriodontia by having palato-nares which open by oval vacuities on a concave surface instead of behind a hard palate .
The transverse palatine arch is not developed downward .
The sphenoidal region is at an angle with the palate , and in the same plane with the occiput .
t Finally , the names given by Professor Cope to allied American types are examined .
It appears that the Theromora as hitherto used is a synonym of the Anomodontia , though it might be conveniently limited to the American types , which appear to be distinct from those of Africa and Europe .
But it is not possible to use either that name or the names Pelycosauria or Cotylosauria till the characters of the groups they indicate are adequately defined by good characters .
The relation of the Therosuchia to other Anomodontia is shown in the following grouping .
ANOMODONTIA .
Therostjchia .
Pareiasauria .
Procolophonia .
Gorgonopsia .
Dinocephalia .
Deuterosauria .
r Lycosauria .
Theriodontia .
\lt ; Cynodontia .
L Gomphodontia .
Endothiodontia .
[ Theromora .
] Therochelonia .
Dicynodontia .
Kistecephalia .
Mesosauria .

