II .
" On Molecular Mechanics .
" By the Rev. JOSEPH BAYMA , Of Stonyhurst College , L-ancashire .
Communicated by Dr. SHARIPEY , Sec. R.S. Received January 5 , 1.864 .
The following pages contain a short account of some speculations on molecular mechanics .
They will show how far my plan of molecular mechaniics has been as yet developed , and how much more is to be done before it reaches its proper perfection .
Of course I can do no more than point out the principles on which , according to my views , this new science ought to be grounded .
The proofs would require a volume , and the more so , as existing wide-spread philosophical prejudices will make it my duty to join together both demonstration and refutation .
But there will be time hereafter , if necessary , for a complete exposition and vindication of the principles on which I rely ; at present it will be enough for me to state them .
The aim of " molecular mechanics " is the solution of a problem which includes all branches of physics , and which may be enunciated , in general terms , as follows : " From the knowledge we gain of certain properties of natural substanlces by observationi and experiment , to determine the intrinsic constitution of these substances , and the laws according to which they ought to act and be acted upon in any hypothesis whatever .
" In order to clear the way for the solution of this problem , three thiligs are to be done .
First .
From the known properties of bodies must be deduced the essential principles and intrinsic constitution of matter .
Secondly .
General formulas must be established for the motions of any kind of molecular system , which we conceive may exist in rerum natura .
Thirdly .
We must determine as far as possible the kinds of molecular systems which are suited to the different primitive bodies ; and be prepared to make other applications suitable for the explanation of phenomena .
Of these three things , the first , which is the very foundation of molecular mechanics , can , I think , be done at once .
The second also , though it requires a larger treatment , will not present any great difficulty .
The third , however , in this first attempt , can be but very imperfectly accomplished ; for sciences also have their infancy , nor am I so bold as to expect to be able to do what requires the labour of many : I shall only say so much as may suffice to establish for this sciernce a definite existence and a proper form .
In order to give an idea of my plan , I will now say a few words on each of these three points .
I. PRINCIPLES or , MOLECULAR MECHANICS .
First , then , ( to say nothing of the name of " molecular mechanics , " which will be justified later , ) in all bodies we find these three things , exten8ion , inertia , and activejpowers , to one or other of which every property of bodies may be referred .
In order therefore to arrive at a clear idea of the constitution of natural substances , these three must be diligently investigated .
Extension.-I have come to the following conclusions on this head , which , I think , can be established by eviident arguments drawn from various considerations .
1 .
All bodies consist of simple and ulnextended elements , the sumn of which constitute the ab8olute ma-ss of the given body .
The extension itself , or volume , of the body is nothing but the extension of the space included within the bounding surfaces of the body ; and the ext ension of space is nothing but its capability of being passed through ( percurribilitas ) in any direction by means of motion extending from any one point to any other .
2 .
There is no such thing possible as matter materially and mathema .
tically continuous-that is to say , such that its parts touch each other with true and perfect colntact .
There must be admitted indeed a continuity of forces ready to act ; but this conitirnuity is only virtual , not actual lnor formal .
3 .
Simple elements cannot be at once attraclive at greater , and repulsive at less distances .
To this extent at least Boscovich 's theory must be corrected .
If an element is attractive at any distalnce , it will be so at all distances ; and if it be repulsive at any distance , it will be repulsive at all distances .
This is proved from the very nature of matter , and perfectly corresponds with the action of molecules and with universal attraction .
4 .
Simple elemenis must not be confounded with the atoms of the chemist , nor with the molecules of which bodies are composed .
Mfolecules are , according to their name , small extenlded masses , i. e. they imply volume ; elements are indivisible points without extension .
Again , molecules of whatever kind , even those of primitive bodies , are so many systems resulting from elements actiun on each other ; conisequently elements differ from molecules as parts differ from the whole ; so that much may be said about separate elements , which cannot be said of separate molecules or chemnical atoms , and vice versd ' .
Element , molecule , body have the same relatioi to each other in the physical order , that individual , family , state bear to each other in the social order ; for a body results from molecules , and molecules from elements holding together mechaniically , in a similar way to that in which a state results from families , and families from individuals bound together by social ties .
So much regarding extension ; for I do not now intend to proceed to the demonstration of these statements , but simply to put down what it is I am prepared to prove .
I'nertia.-There woLild scarcely be any need of saying anything on this head , were there not some , even learned mrreii , who entertain false ideas about it , and from not rightly understanding whiat is said of inertia by physical philosophers , throw out ill-founded doubts , which do more harm than good to science .
I say , then , 1 .
Inertia implies two things : ( a ) that each element of matter is perfectly indifferent to receiving motion in any directionand of any intensity from some external agent ; ( b ) that lno element of matter can move itself by any action of its own1 .
2 .
It follows as a sort of corollary from this , that to be iniert does not signify to be without active power ; and that the very same element , which on account of its inertia cannot act upon itself , may , notwithstanding this inertia , have aln active power , by which it may act upon any other element whatever .
3 .
Iniertia is an essential property of matter , and is not greater in one element than in another , but is always the same in all elements , whether they are attractive or repulsive , whether their active power is great or small .
4 .
That which is called by naturial philosophers the vis inertie is not a special mechanical force added on to the active forces of elements , but is the readiness of a body to react by means of its elementary forces , against any action tending to change the actual condition of that body .
These four propositions will remove many false notions , which give rise to confusion of ideas and impede the solution of many important questions .
Active power.-The questions relating to the active power of matter are of the greatest importance , since on them depends nearly the whole science of nature .
On this point I am convinced , and think I can prove , that 1 .
No other forces exist in the elemenits of matter except locomotive or mechanical forces ; for these alone are required , and these alone are sufficient , to account for all natural phenlomena .
So that we need have no anxiety about the vires occultae of the ancients , inor need we make search after any other kind of primitive forces , besides such as are mechanical or locomotive .
IIence chemical , electric , magnetic , calorific and other such actions will be all reduced to mechanical actions , complex indeed , but all following certain definite laws , and capable of being expressed by mathematical formulm as in general mechanics .
Hence in treating of mnolecular mechanics we do not make any gratuitous assumption or probable hypothesis , but are enigaged on a branch of science founded on demonstrable truths , free from all hypothesis or arbitrary assumption .
2 .
There are not only attractive , but also repulsive elements ; and this is the reason why molecules of bodies ( as being made up of both sorts ) may at certain distances attract , and at others repel each other .
3 .
Simple elements , in the whole sphere of their active power , and conisequently also at molecular distances , act ( whether by attracting or repelling ) according to the inverse ratio of the squares of the distances .
This proposition may seem to contradict certain known laws , as far as regards molecular distances ; but the contradiction is only apparent , and this appearance will vanish when we consider that the action of elements ( of which we are now speaking ) is not the same as the action of motecules .
From the fact that cohesion , e. g. , does not follow the inverse ratio of the square of the distance , it will certainly result that molecules do not act according , to this law , and this is what physical science teaches : but it does not follow that elements do not act according to the law .
This truth is , as all must see , of the utmost importance , since it is the foundation of molecular mechanics , of which it would be impossible to treat at all , unless the law of elementary action at infinitesimal distances were known .
This truth universalizes Newton 's law of celestial attraction by extending it to all elementary action , whether attractive or repulsive , and makes it applicable not only to telescopic , but also to microscopic distances .
It is clear therefore that I am bound to prove this law most irrefragably , lest I construct my molecular mechanics on an insecure foundation .
4 .
The sphere of the activity of matter is inidefinite , in this sense , that no finite distance can be assigned at which the action of matter will be null .
It by no means , however , follows from this that the force of matter has ain infinite intensity .
5 .
The natural activity of each element of matter is exerted immediately on every other existing element at any distance , either by attracting or repelling , according to the agent 's nature .
Thus , e. g. , the action which the earth exerts on each falling drop of rain is exerted immediately by each element of the earth on each element of the water ( notwithstanding the distance between them ) ; it is not exerted through the material medium of the air , or of ether , or any other substance .
The same must be said of the action of the sun on the planets .
This proposition , however , it is evident , holds only for the simple action of the elements , i. e. , attractive or repulsive .
For it is clear that complex actions causing vibratory motions , such as light or sound , are only transmitted through some vibrating medium .
This conclusion is also of immense importance , because it solves a question much discussed by the ancients about the nature of action exerted on a distant body , and removes all scruples of philosophers on this head .
6 .
Bodies do not and cannot act by mathematical contact , however much our prejudices incline us to think the contrary ; but every material action is always exerted on something at a distance from the agent .
7 .
There is another prejudice which I wish to remove , i. e. that one motiovn is the efcient cause of another motion .
It is easily shown that this mode of speaking , though sometimes employed by scientific men , is incorrect , and ought to be abandoned , because it tends to the destruction of all natural science .
Motion never causes motion , but is only a condition affecting the agent in its manner of acting .
For all motion is caused by some agent giving velocity and direction ; but the agent gives velocity and direction by means of its own active power , which it exerts differently according as it is found in different local conditions .
Now these local conditions of the agent may be differently modified by the movement of the agent itself .
The impact of bodies , the change of motion to heat , the communication of velocity from one body to another ( always a difficult question ) , and other points of a like nature can only be satisfactorily explained by this principle .
These are the principal points that have to be discussed , defined , and demonstrated in order that molecular mechanics may be established on solid principles .
II .
MATHEMATICAL econdly .
I divided these regular systems into different classes according to their geometrical figure .
Of these I have investigated the tetrahedric , octahedric , hexahedric , octohexahedric , penitagonal-dodecahedric , and icosahedric .
I then divided these classes into differenit species , viz. pure centratac , centro-nucleate , centro-binucleatce , centro-trinucleate , &amp;c. , also into acentr atw ( without centre ) , truncalce , &amp;c. To enumerate the whole would take too long ; indeed I only mention these to show how in such a multiplicity of systems I endeavoured to introduce the order necessary for me to be able to speak distinietly about them .
Lastly , besides classes and species , it was requisite also to consider certain distinct varieties under the same species .
And in this way I seemed to myself to have embraced all the regular systems of elements possibly conceivable .
Thirdly .
The several parts of which any system of elements can consist are reduced by me to a centre , nuclei to any number , and an external enzvelope .
And thus I obtained not only a method of nomenclature for the different systems ( a most importanit point ) , but also a method of exhibiting each system iinder brief and intelligible symbols .
Thus , e. g. , the tetrahedric systemi p_ ur centratum ( i. e. without any nucleus ) , in which the centre is any attractive element , and the four elemenits of the envelope repulsive , will be represented thus , Mn_A ? ?
4R , in which expression m signiifies the absolute mass of the system ( in this case 5 ) , A represents the attractive centre , and 4R the four repulsive elements of the envelope .
The letters A and R are not quantities , but only indices denoting the nature of the action .
In a similar way , the following expression m_ R+ 6A+ 8Rf ' denotes a system whose cenitre R is repulsive , whose single nucleus 6A is octahedric and attractive , and whose envelope 8R1 is hexahedric and repulsive : in , which , as before , indicates the absolute mass of the system , here = 15 .
This will suffice to show how the differenit species and varieties of the aforementioned systems may be named and expressed .
Then I had to find mechanical formulas for the motion or equilibrium of the several systems ; for it is only froom such formulas that we can determine what systems are generally possible in the molecules of bodies .
Speaking generally , no system purse centratum , of whatever figure it be , can be admnitted in the molecules of natural bodies , whether gaseous , liquid , or solid .
Let v represent the action of the centre , and w that of one of the elements of the envelope for a unit of distance ; and let r be the radius of the system , i. e. the distance o 'any one of the elements of the envelope from the centre ; the general formula of motion for any system pure centraturn ( expressed as above by m-A+nR ) will be d2r I WF 1 ( v-Mw ) , where M signifies a constant , and the actions which tenld to increase r are taken as positive .
If the system is tetrahedric , M=.09 1856 octahedric , M= 166430 hexahedric , M=2-46759 octohexahedric , M= 411170 icosahedric , M=4 19000 pentagonal dodecahedric , M= 782419 .
Now none of these varieties satisfies the conditions either of solid , liquid , or gaseous bodies ; because they either will not resist compression , or they form masses which are repulsive at all great distances ; or if they could constitute gaseous bodies , they do not allow the law of compression to be verified , which we know to hold for all gases .
Passing on to the systems centro-nucleata , the formulas will differ according to the several figures of the nuclei and envelope .
Taking , e. g. , the system mn=R+6A+8R ' , .
which is hexahedric with aln octahedric nucleus , and taking v , v ' , w to represent respectively the actions of the centre , one element of the nucleus , and one element of the envelope ; taking also r and p for the radii of the nucleus and envelope , the equations of motion for such a system will be d2r v -M ' Iv ' ?
Irp Vl ?
r-p_A/ _ _ dt2,2 +4w 2/ + ) 2 ) d2p v ?
M _____ f ?
~ ip+r 2\2 dt2-2o -3v ( r+ / ) where M=2'46759 , and Mt= -66430 .
The conditions of equilibrium will be obtained by making the two first members equal to zero .
What systems of this class ( centro-nucleata ) can satisfy the conditions of solid , liquid , or gaseous bodies , is exceedingly difficult to determine , for reasons which I have above touched on , viz. that the formulm of these systems are not initegrable , and we have consequently to proceed indirectly with great expenditure of time and trouble .
It seems to me , however , as far as I can judge , that some of these systems may be found in rerurn natura .
Passing to another class of systems ( centro.6inucleata ) , we shall have three equations to express its laws of motion .
Taking , e. g. , the system m=A+4R+4A'+4R1W , which is tetrahedric with two tetrahedric nuclei ; taking v , vl , VI1 , w for the respective actions of the elements acting from the centre , first and second nuclei , and envelope ; taking , r , r'/ , p for the radii of the two nuclei and the envelope , the equations of motion will be as follows : d2rf Mv'-v / 1 3rt 2t dt2 r2 ( +r)2 + rr ' 3 vC12+r"2 2r ~w((llY .
1)+ _ rj ) ; ~~ / 1 N/ ( p+ rJ ?
) d2r9J Mwlr-v +VI l 3+7t-r dtS 27tlS ~(r I+r1)2 r(r2+ rtf2_ 2rfrIt)3 + w(,1,2 + )X\/ / ' -I2prhIy d2p _Mw-v 3p+{rr dt2 p2 ( P-r f)2 ; t2+2 ) -eo((p+l/ + 1 ) in which equations , M=-091886 .
The discussion of these equations and simuilar ones will afford a useful occupation to mathematicians and natural philosophers .
Whatever conclusiots may be drawn from them cannot fail to throw great light on the question of the nature of bodies .
It is evident that we might go further and pass oln to trinucleate , quadrinucleate , &amp;c. systems ; but the number of equations will increase in proportion , together with the difficulty of dealing with them .
It is not enough to consider the laws of motion and equilibrium in each system separately , but it is also necessary to know what action one system exercises on another , whether like or unlike , placed at a given distance .
For since many of the properties of bodies depend on the relation which the different molecules bear to one another , e. g. , liquidity , elasticity , hardness , &amp;c. , it is not enough to know what is the state of a system of elements ( i. e. a molecule ) in itself , but we must investigate also how several such systems ( or molecules ) affect each other .
Now in this ulterior investigation it is clear that the difficulty increases exceedingly , since the equations become exceedingly complex .
Here also then may natural philosophers find matter for industry and patience .
I have done a little in this subject , but not enough to deserve any special mention .
In order , however , to diminiish the difficulties , the investigation may be provisionally restricted to the mutual actions of the envelopes , neglecting for the time that of the nuclei , which may be considered as a disturbing cause , for which some correction may afterwards have to be made .
So much then for the mathematical and theoretic development of molecular mechanics .
There remains the third part , which , though the most laborious of all , will yet give the greatest pleasure to scientific men ; since it is less dry , and opens a way for attaining the end aimed at in the natural sciences .
Of this third part I will add a few words .
III .
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR MECHANICS .
[ Under this head the author points out the various properties of bodies which would have to be explained , and of which he conceives an explanation might be afforded could the mathematical calculations be effected which are required for the elaboration of his theory , and enunciates the following conclusions as deduced from his explanation of the impact of bodies .
] 1 .
If a body does not contain any repulsive elements , it cannot cause any retardation in the movement of any impinging body .
2 .
Again , if the mediumn through which a body moves contain no repulsive elements , no retardation of its motioni can take place .
3 .
If a medium does contain repulsive elements , retardation must necessarily take place .
4 .
Consequently , as the planets in their movements through the rether do not suffer any loss of velocity , it must be concluded that the ether does not contain any repulsive elements at all , and that Its elasticity must be explained without any recourse to repulsive forces .
This last inference is somewhat wonderful , and decidedly curious : but after much consideration it appeared to me so natural , and so well harmonising with other truths and scientific theories , that I ceased to hesitate about its adoption and gave it a most decided assent ; whether wisely or not , I leave others to judge .
the general formula of motion for any system pure centratum ( expressed as above by m=A+nR ) will be d'r 1 dr _1 ( v-Mzw ) , where M signifies a constant , and the actions which tend to increase r are taken as positive .
If the system is tetrahedric , M =.0 91856 , , octahedric , M= 1-66430 hexahedric , M=2'46759 , , octohexahedric , M-=4'11170 icosahedric , Mi=419000 pentagonal dodecahedric , MI= 7'82419 .
Now none of these varieties satisfies the conditions either of solid , liquid , or gaseous bodies ; because they either will not resist compression , or they form masses which are repulsive at all great distances ; or if they could constitute gaseous bodies , they do not allow the law of compression to be verified , which we know to hold for all gases .
Passing on to the systems centro-nucleata , the formulas will differ according to the several figures of the nuclei and envelope .
Taking , e. g. , the system mn=R+6A+8R ' , .
which is hexahedric with an octahedric nucleus , and taking v , v ' , w to represent respectively the actions of the centre , one element of the nucleus , and one element of the envelope ; taking also r and p for the radii of the nucleus and envelope , the equations of motion for such a system will be dar , vMyV / _ r+p r-pA/ T +4wu -__ WT-^T ) V(^72pr V dt2 = )2 2-r2+2p ) 22 d2p Mw ? ?
3v , / + .
p- ?
-A dt2 =2a-3v ' V ) where M=2'46759 , and M'= 166430 .
The conditions of equilibrium will be obtained by making the two first members equal to zero .
What systems of this class ( centro-nucleata ) can satisfy the conditions of solid , liquid , or gaseous bodies , is exceedingly difficult to determine , for reasons which I have above touched on , viz. that the formule of these systems are not integrable , and we have consequently to proceed indirectly with great expenditure of time and trouble .
It seems to me , however , as far as I can judge , that some of these systems may be found in rerunz natura .
Passing to another class of systems ( centro.binucleata ) , we shall have three equations to express its laws of motion .
Taking , e. g. , the system m= A+4JtR+4A'+4Rf , 133 which is tetrahedric with two tetrahedric nuclei ; taking v , vI , v11 , w for the respective actions of the elements acting from the centre , first and second nuclei , and envelope ; taking r , r ' , p for the radii of the two nuclei and the envelope , the equations of motion will be as follows : d2rf Mv'-v 3 , 1 3r1t\ ( _ = V. _ -_2rrr , dt2 r/ ( 2J+1 ? ?
2 ? ?
3"-2t ?
)I 3r( -+t ( ( pr ' 2(p+r +7 -r ' _= .
, , .
( .
___ , _- .
+r 3t d2p Mw-v +VI ' 3r t rt dt2 k ( P+rI)2 ( 2+ ) t ?
f , _M ?
- ?
, _ 1 3--+ W(P ++ ( J)2 C p+l , 1)22 q ; 1_2 r 2pr -n " ( )+ V/ ( P2+r " y in which equations M=0'91856 .
The discussion of these equations and similar ones will afford a useful occupation to mathematicians and natural philosophers .
Whatever conclusions may be drawn from them cannot fail to throw great light on the question of the nature of bodies .
It is evident that we might go further and pass on to trinucleate , quadrinucleate , &amp;c. systems ; but the number of equations will increase in proportion , together with the difficulty of dealing with them .
It is not enough to consider the laws of motion and equilibrium in each system separately , but it is also necessary to know what action one system exercises on another , whether like or unlike , placed at a given distance .
For since many of the properties of bodies depend on the relation which the different molecules bear to one another , e. g. , liquidity , elasticity , hardness , &amp;c. , it is not enough to know what is the state of a system of elements ( i. e. a molecule ) in itself , but we must investigate also how several such systems ( or molecules ) affect each other .
Now in this ulterior investigation it is clear that the difficulty increases exceedingly , since the equations become exceedingly complex .
Here also then may natural philosophers 184 find matter for industry and patience .
I have done a little in this subject , but not enough to deserve any special mention .
In order , however , to diminish the difficulties , the investigation may be provisionally restricted to the mutual actions of the envelopesi neglecting for the time that of the nuclei , which may be considered as a disturbing cause , for which some correction may afterwards have to be made , So much then for the mathematical and theoretic development of molecular mechanics .
There remains the third part , which , though the most laborious of all , will yet give the greatest pleasure to scientific men ; since it is less dry , and opens a way for attaining the end aimed at in the natural sciences .
Of this third part I will add a few words .
III .
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR MECHANICS .
[ Under this head the author points out the various properties of bodies which would have to be explained , and of which he conceives an explanation might be afforded could the mathematical calculations be effected which are required for the elaboration of his theory , and enunciates the following conclusions as deduced from his explanation of the impact of bodies .
] 1 .
If a body does not contain any repulsive elements , it cannot cause any retardation in the movement of any impinging body .
2 .
Again , if the medium through which a body moves contain no repulsive elements , no retardation of its motion can take place .
3 .
If a medium does contain repulsive elements , retardation must necessarily take place .
4 , Consequently , as the planets in their movements through the rether do not suffer any loss of velocity , it must be concluded that the aether does not contain any repulsive elements at all , and that its elasticity must be explained without any recourse to repulsive forces .
This last inference is somewhat wonderful , and decidedly curious : but after much consideration it appeared to me so natural , and so well harmonising with other truths and scientific theories , that I ceased to hesitate about its adoption and gave it a most decided assent ; whether wisely or not , I leave others to judge .

