V. A Letter to Dr. Jurin , Coll. Med. Lond. Soc. &amp; Secr. R. S. concerning the abovementioned Appearance in the Rainbow , with some other Reflections on the same Subject .
By Henry Pemberton , M. D. R. S. S. SIR , UPON your communicating to me the curious Observations , your Friend Dr. Langwith had made on the Rainbow , I informed you those Appearances might , I thought , be explained by the Discoveries , the Great Sir Isaac Newton had made in the Subject of Light and Colours , in his wonderful Treatise of Optics .
As you seemed not displeased with what I mentioned to you in relation to this Matter by word of mouth , you desired that I would set down in writing my Thoughts thereupon , which I have here accordingly done in the following manner .
AB F E C G H J K D Let AB represent a Drop of Rain , B the Point from whence the Rays of any determinate Species being reflected to C , and afterwards emerging in the Line C D , do proceed to the Eye , and cause the Appearance of that Colour in the Rainbow , which appertains to this Species .
It is observed by Sir Isaac Newton a , that in the Reflection of Light , besides what is reflected regularly , some small part of it is irregularly scattered every way .
So that from the Point B , besides the Rays that are regularly reflected from B to C , some scattered Rays will return in other Lines , as in B E , B F , B G , B H , on each Side the Line B C. Further it must be noted from Sir Isaac Newton b , that the Rays of Light in their Passage from one Superficies of a refracting Medium to the other undergo alternate a Optics , Book II .
Part 4 .
b Ibid. Part III .
Prop. xij .
Fits of easy Transmission and Reflection , succeeding each other at equal Intervals ; insomuch that if they reach the further Superficies in one sort of those Fits , they shall be transmitted ; if in the other kind of them , they shall rather be reflected back .
Whence the Rays that proceed from B to C , and emerge in the Line C D , being in a Fit of easy Transmission , the scattered Rays that fall at a small Distance without these on either side , ( suppose the Rays , that pass in the Lines B E , B G ) shall fall on the Surface in a Fit of easy Reflection , and shall not emerge ; but the scattered Rays , that pass at some Distance without these last , shall arrive at the Surface of the Drop in a fit of easy Transmission , and break through that Surface Suppose these Rays to pass in the Lines B F , B H ; the former of which Rays shall have had one Fit more of easy Transmission , and the latter one Fit less , than the Rays that pass from B to C. Now both these Rays , when they go out of the Drop , will proceed by the Refraction of the Water in the Lines F I , H K , that will be inclined almost equally to the Rays incident on the Drop , that come from the Sun , but the Angles of their Inclination will be less than the Angle , in which the Rays emerging in the Line CD are inclined to those incident Rays .
And after the same manner Rays scattered from the Point B , at a certain Distance without these , will emerge out of the Drop , while the intermediate Rays are intercepted ; and these emergent Rays will be inclined to the Rays incident on the Drop in Angles still less than the Angles , in which the Rays FI and HK are inclined to them ; and without these Rays will emerge other Rays , that shall be inclined to the incident Rays in Angles yet less .
Now by this means will be formed of every kind of Rays , besides the principal Arch which goes to the FormaR 2 tion tion of the Rainbow , other Arches , within every one of the principal , of the same Colour , though much more faint : and this for divers Successions , as long as these weak Lights , which in every Arch grow more and more obscure , shall continue visible .
Now as the Arches produced by each Colour will be variously mixed together , the diversity of Colours observed by Dr. Langwith may well arise from them .
The precise Distances between the principal Arch of each respective Colour and these fainter correspondent Arches depend on the Magnitude of the Drops of Rain .
In particular , the smallest Drops will make the secondary Arches of each Species at the greatest Distance from their respective principal , and from each other .
Whence , as the Drops of Rain increase in falling , these Arches near the Horizon by their great Nearness to their respective principal Arches become invisible .
AND now , Sir , we are upon the Rainbow , I shall here take the Freedom of setting down two Propositions , which I have formerly considered , relating to this Subject .
For the greater Brevity I shall deliver them under the Form of Porisms ; as , in my Opinion , the Ancients called all Propositions treated by Analysis only .
PROPOSITION I. In a given refracting Circle , whose refracting Power is given , the Ray is given in Position , which passing parallel to a given Diameter of the Circle is refracted by that Circle to a Point given in the Circumference of it .
Let ABCD be the given Circle , the given Diameter A C , and given Point G ; and let the Ray E F , parallel to A C , be refracted to G. I say OF is given in Position .
B OF H G AKC I D Produce OF to H , and draw the Diameter F I , drawing likewise IK H , I G. Then is HFI the Angle of Incidence , and GFI the refracted Angle ; so that IH being perpendicular to FH and IG perpendicular to F G , IH is to IG as the Sine of the Angle of Incidence to the Sine of the refracted Angle , and the Ratio of IH to IG is given , as likewise the Ratio of IK to I G. Therefore IK being perpendicular to AC the Point I is in a Conic Section given in Position , whose Axis is perpendicular to A C , and one of its Foci is the Point G a. Consequently the Points I and F are given , and lastly the Ray OF given in Position .
a See Papp .
l. 7 .
prop. 238 .
Milnes Conic .
part .
4 .
prop. 9 .
DETERMINATIO N. IT is evident , that this conic Section , may either cut the Circle in two Points , touch it in one Point , or fall wholly without it .
Therefore let the Section touch the Circle in the Point I , and let IL touch both the Section and the Circle in the same point I. Then GL being joined , the Angle under IGL on acF H G L A MC I count of the conic Section is a right one a , so that FGL is one continued right Line , and IF is to IL as FG to G I ; as likewise , M being the Center of the Circle , MI to I L , or FH to H I , as FG to twice G I , because MI is to IF as GI to twice G I. Hence by Permutation FH is to FG as HI to twice G I ; that is , as the Sine of the Angle of Incidence to twice the Sine of the refracted Angle .
a De la Hire Conic .
lib. 8 .
prop. 23 .
Moreover FH being to HI as FG to twice G I , the Square of FH will be to the Square of H I , as the Square of FG to four times the Square of G I. Therefore , by Composition , as the Square of FH to the Square of FI or of A C , so is the Square of FG to the Square of FI together with three times the Square of G I , and so likewise is the Excess of the Square of FG above the Square of F H , which equals the Excess of the Square of IH above the Square of I G , to three times the Square of G I ; for as one Antecedent to one Consequent , so is the difference of the Antecedents to the difference of the Consequents .
Hence in the last place , the Square of half FH will be to the Square of A M , as the Excess of the Square of IH above the Square of IG to three times the Square of I G , or as the Excess of the Square of the Sine ofIncidence above the Square of the Sine of Refraction , to three times the Square of the Sine of Refraction .
Another DETERMINATIO N. Draw the Diameter GO and the Tangent O P , meeting GF produced in Q : then the Angle under IFG is equal to the Angle under OG F , the Angle P Q F G AMCL O I under FIL equal to that under GO Q , both being right , and FI is equal to G O ; whence the Triangles GO Q , FIL are similar and equal ; so that GQ is equal to F L , and the Point F in an Hyperbola passing through G , whose Asymptotes are AC and OP a. ~ Apoll .
Conic .
~ .
2 .
prop. 8 .
PROPOSITION II .
A refracting Circle and its refracting Power being given , the Ray is given in Position , which , passing parallel to a given Diameter of the Circle , after its Refraction , is so reflected from the farther Surface of the Circle , as to be inclined to its incident Course in a given Angle .
Let ABCD be the given Circle ; let AC be the given Diameter , OF the incident Ray parallel to it , which being refracted into the Line FG shall so be reflected from the Point G in the Line G H , that OF and HG being produced , till they meet in I , the Angle under EIH shall be given .
B EFI NG L R Q MAPKCO H D Let K be the Center of the Circle , and K F , KG be joined ; let the Semidiameter LK be parallel to the refracted Ray F G , and MK being taken to the Semidiameter of the Circle in the Ratio of the Sine of Incidence to the Sine of Refraction ; let LM be joined , and lastly make the Angle under KMN equal to half the given Angle under EI H. This being done , if FG be produced to O , FO shall be to KO as the Sine of the Angle of Incidence to the Sine of the refracted Angle , that is as MK to K L ; in so much that KL being parallel to F O , and the Angle under MKL equal to that under FO K , the Angle under MLK shall be equal to that under FK O , and the Angle under KML equal to that under KFO equal to that under FGK or half that under FG H , whence the Angle under KMN being equal to half the Angle under FI H , the residuary Angle under NML will be equal to half the Angle under IFG or to half that under MK L. Therefore LC being drawn , the Angle under LMN will be equal to that under MC L ; and in the last place , if MC be divided into two equal Parts in P , and PQR be drawn parallel to C L , the Angle under QMR will be equal to that under RP M , and the Triangles QM R , MPR similar , so that the Rectangle under PRQ shall be equal to the Square of M R. Whence RL being equal to M R , the Point L shall be in an equilateral Hyperbola , touching the Line MN in the Point M , and having the Point P for its Center a. But this Hyperbola is given in Position , and consequently the Point L , the Angle under ML K , and the equal Angle under CKF will be given , and therefore the Ray OF is given in Position .
~ Apoll .
Conic .
lib. 1 .
prop. 37 .
compared with lib. 7 .
prop. 23 .
DETERMINATIO N. Let the Hyperbola touch the Circle in the Point L , and let their common Tangent be L S ; draw LT parallel to M N , so as to be ordinately applied in the Hyperbola to the Diameter C M. Whence LS touching the Hyperbola in L , PT will be to TL as TL to TS a , and the Angle under TSL equal to that under TL P , but as the Angle under SCL is equal to that under NM L , the same is equal to the Angle under TL M ; therefore the Angle under SLC is equal to the Angle under ML P. Farther , ML being produced to V and VC joined , the Angle under LVC is E~FX V W LN G TMSAPKC equal to that under SL C , by reason that LS touches the Circle in L ; hence the Angles under LVC and under MLP are equal , L P , VC are parallel , and ~ Apoll .
Conic .
lib. 1 .
prop. 37 .
compared with lib. 7 .
prop. 23 .
MP being equal to P C , ML is equal to L V ; and KW being let fall perpendicular to LV , MW is equal to three times L W. But now if the incident Ray OF be produced to X , the Angle under MLK being equal to that under CK F , or to that under OF K , FX shall be equal to L V , equal to twice L W ; and the Angle under KML being equal to that under KF G ; since KW is perpendicular to M W , FG shall be to twice MW as MK to K F , or as the Sine of Incidence to the Sine of Refraction : whence MW being equal to three times L W , FX shall be to FG as the Sine of Incidence to three times the Sine of Refraction .
Moreover , MW being equal to three times L W , the Square of MW will be equal to nine times the Square of L W , and the Rectangle under UM L , or the Rectangle under CM A , that is , the Excess of the Square of KM above the Square of K A , will be equal to eight times the Square of LW ; therefore the Square of LW or the Square of half FX will be to the Square of K L , or of KA , as the Excess of the Square of KM above the Square of KA to eight times the Square of K A , that is , as the Excess of the Square of the Sine of Incidence , above the Sine of Refraction to eight times the Square of the Sine of Refraction .
Another DETERMINATIO N. Draw AY parallel to M N , and AZ parallel to M V : then is the Angle under YA Z , equal to that under LM N , which is equal to that under LC A ; whence the Arches A L , YZ are equal ; but the Z VI L N M A~~KC Arches A L , VZ are likewise equal , because LV , AZ are parallel , therefore YV being joined , and L~ drawn perpendicular to A C , the Chord VI shall be the double of L ~ ; but V~ being likewise let fall perpendicular to A C , because MV is the double of M L , V~ shall be the double of L ~ ; and therefore V~ and VI shall be equal ; whence the point V shall be in a Parabola , whose Focus is the Point Y , its Axis perpendicular to A C , and the Latus rectum , belonging to that Axis , equal to twice the perpendicular let fall from Y upon AC a. But if KV be joined , the ~ Vide de la Hire Sect. Conic .
lib. 8 .
prop. 1,3 , ~ .
Angle under LKV is equal to twice the Complement to a right Angle of the Angle under KL V , which is equal to the Angle of Incidence , and exceeds the refracted Angle by the Angle under AK L. THE Determinations of these two Propositions , have relation to the first and second Rainbow ; those of the first Proposition respecting the interior , and those of the second the exterior .
The first Determinations of these two Propositions assign the Angles , under which each Rainbow will appear in any given refracting Power of the transparent Substance , by which they are produced ; the latter Determinations of these Propositions teach how to find the refracting Power of the Substance , from the Angles under which the Rainbows appear ; the Angle under CM G , in the Determinations of the first Proposition , being halfthe Angle which measures the Distance of the interior Bow from the Point opposite to the Sun ; and in the Determinations of the second Proposition , the Angle under CMN is half the Complement to a right Angle of halfthe Angle that measures the Distance of the exterior Bow , from the Point opposite to the Sun .
But whereas these latter Determinations require solid Geometry , it may not be amiss here to show how they may be reduced to Calculation , seeing the Observation of these Angles , as the learned Dr. Halley has already remarked a , affords no inconvenient Method of finding the refracting Power of any Fluid , or indeed of any transparent Substance , if it be formed into a spherical ~ Philosoph. Transact. No. 267 .
page .
722 .
or cylindrical Figure .
For this purpose therefore I P Q F C AMCL O I have found , that in the latter Determination of the first Proposition , if the Sine of the Angle under CMG be denoted by a , the Tangent of the Complement of this Angle to a right one be denoted by b , and the Secant of this Complement by c ; the Root of this Equation z33 aaz=2aa~2ca will exceed the Sine of the Angle under FM A , that is the Sine of the Angle of Incidence , by the Sine of the Angle under CM G ; and the Sine of the Angle under FMO , which is double the refracted Angle , will be the Root of this Equation x3 +3aax= 4a a b ; this Angle being acute , when the Tangent of the Angle under CMG is less than half the Radius , or when the Angle itself is less than 26 degr .
33~ .
54~ .
11~ , and when this Tangent is more than half the Radius , the Angle under OMF is obtuse .
The Roots of these cubic Equations are found by seeking the first of two mean Proportionals , between each of the versed Sines appertaining to the Arches C G , A G , and the Sine of those Arches , counting from the versed Sines ; for the Sum of these two mean Proportionals is the Root of the former Equation , and the difference between them the Root of the latter ; as may be collected from Cardan 's Rules .
And hence likewise if the first and last of the five mean Proportionals , between the Sine and Cosine of half the Angle under CMG be found , twice the Sum of the Squares of these mean Proportionals applied to the Radius exceeds the Sine of the Angle of Incidence by the Sine of the Angle under CM G ; and twice the difference of the Squares of the same mean Proportionals applied to the Radius is equal to the Sine of double the refracted Angle .
Moreover this double of the refracted Angle exceeds the Angle of Incidence by the Angle under CM G. V Y L N MAKC In the latter Determination of the second Proposition draw K Y , and AY being parallel to M N , the Angle under CKY will be equal to twice the Angle under CM N , that is equal to the Complement of half the Distance of the exterior Rainbow from the Point opposite to the Sun .
Then putting a for the Radius A K , and b for the Sine of the Angle under CK Y , the Sine of the Angle under AKV will be the Root of this Equation y4 +4b y3 8aaby+ 4a abb= 0 .
But the Angle of Incidence and Refraction may also be found as follows .
Let two mean Proportionals between the Radius and the Sine of the Angle under CKY be found , then take the Angle , whose Cosine is the first of these mean Proportionals , counting from the Radius ; and also the Angle , whose Sine together with the second mean Proportional shall be to the Radius as the Cosine of the Angle under CKY to the Sine of the Angle before found .
The Sum of these three Angles is double the Complement to a right one of the Angle under AK L , the Angle under KM L , or the refracted Angle , being equal to half the Sum of this Angle under AKL and the Angle under CK Y ; as in the last Place the Angle under KL V , that is the Angle of Incidence , equal to the Sum of the Angles under KML and under M KL .
I need not observe , that the geometrical Methods of deducing these Angles of Incidence and Refraction from the Angle measuring the Distance of each Rainbow from the Point opposite to the Sun , afford very expeditious mechanical Constructions .

