Radio-activity of Uranium .
409 ' r~ \#151 ; Square Root of Brightness .
.oQ / / ?
/ - + '/ O Te\#177 ; Br'tr t of Li less oc i ttr i / / / / A / y / ^ / X ohst)2 -60 / y / y *50 / / y / / y / y / / O / m/ i-0 / / / / J/ / / / ' / / / \oO ?
A / / r * \lt ; 20 / / / / / / Law .
dLtion .
/ /* -JO / / / / / ii .00 Irrf Cist -La inite ance .
i \#166 ; 0 20 Recip\lt ; from 3 rocal\gt ; of assume i \#166 ; on Distance i Limb .
** Radio-activity of Uranium .
" By Sir William Crookes , T.R.S. Received .
May 3 , \#151 ; Bead May 10 , 1900 .
[ Plate 5 .
] 1 .
The researches of M. Henri Becquerei have shown that compounds of uranium possess the property now called " radio-activity ; that |is , rays emitted by them affect a sensitive photographic plate through bodies usually considered opaque to light ; they discharge .an electrometer when brought near it ; and they are deflected by a magnet .
These rays are now called " Becquerei rays , or " uranic rays .
" 2 .
On the discovery by M. and Mdme .
Curie of polonium and Sir W. Crookes .
radium , bodies of enormous radio-active powers , it was suggested that uranium might possibly owe its power to the presence of a small quantity of one of these bodies .
But in a paper published in the ' Revue Generale des Sciences ' for January , 1899 , Mdme .
Curie says:\#151 ; " This does not appear probable , for if such were the case different samples of uranium compounds would have very different radioactivities , but in the course of a number of experiments made with various samples of metallic uranium , as well as with oxides and salts from various sources , I have never found any marked difference between the relative activities of the same compound .
" In another paper* the same author says that " the property of emitting rays . . .
which act on photographic plates is a specific property of uranium and thorium .
" " The physical condition of the metal seems to be of an altogether secondary importance .
" " Uranium and thorium alone are practically active .
" 3 .
When the discovery of radium was announced , and it was said to have " to all appearance the properties of almost pure barium , " !
it occurred to me that radium might be found in detectable quantities in some barium minerals were search made among them from different localities .
Accordingly specimens of the following minerals were put on sensitive plates , a sheet of black paper separating them from the sensitive surface .
As it was probable that the radio-active substance would be present , if at all , in very minute quantities , the sensitive plate was exposed to their influence for forty-eight hours .
Barytes ( Heavy Spar ) .
" from Hungary .
( Three specimens .
) " " Cumberland .
( Eight .
) " , , Westmorland .
( One .
) " " Cumberland .
( A fine crystal .
) , , " Derbyshire .
( Three .
) " , , Arkendale .
( One .
) " " Hartz .
( One .
) " " Scotland .
( One .
) " " Ireland .
( Two .
) " " Northumberland .
( Two .
) " " Arran .
( One .
) " , , Cherbourg .
( One .
) " Several unnamed , but finely crystallised , specimens .
Witherite from Lancashire .
( One .
) , ' , " Cumberland .
( Four .
) " Northumberland .
( One , ) * M. and Mdme Curie , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 12.7 , p. 175 ; 'Chem .
News/ vol. 78 , p. 49 , July 29 , 1898 .
f M. and Mdme .
Curie and M. Bemont , Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 127 , p. 1215 y Cliem .
News , ' vol. 79 , p. 1 , January 3 , 1899 .
Radio-activity of Uranium .
4TI Kot one of these minerals showed the slightest action on the sensitive plate .
4 .
Having ; obtained negative results with barium compounds , i went through every mineral in my cabinet\#151 ; a somewhat extensive collection , numbering many fine specimens .
Large photographic plates were covered with black paper , and the minerals were laid on them as close as they could conveniently be placed , accurate note of their names and positions being recorded .
They were exposed in total darkness for forty-eight hours .
By this means a list of radioactive minerals was ultimately obtained .
They were then tested for order of intensity of action .
The following is a list of active minerals arranged in order , the most active heading the list ; \#151 ; It will be observed that these minerals all contain either uranium or thorium .
5 .
Pitchblende was the most radio-active mineral , but it varied much in different parts .
A slice was cub from a piece of pitchblende from Cornwall and the surface was polished .
A sensitive photographic plate was pressed against it , and after twenty-four hours the plate was developed .
The impression showed the structure of the mineral in a remarkable manner , every little piece of pitchblende showing black , those portions in which the radio-active substance was not so operative showing in half tint , while the felspar , quartz , pyrites , \amp ; c. , having no radio-activity , left the plate transparent ( see Plate 5 ) .
Pitchblende from different localities differed greatly in action .
6 .
A large crystal of orangite from Arendal was ground flat and polished at one end and side , and a piece of sensitive celluloid film ; , cut half through so as to allow it to bend sharply , was put on the polished surfaces , one half pressing against the end and the other half against the side .
The exposure was continued for seventy-two hours .
On developing , no difference could be seen in the intensity of the impression , whether made by the end or the side of the crystal .
The impression also was uniform over the surface , the cracks in the surfaces not having impressed themselves . . .
These experiments were repeated with the interposition of a thin sheet of celluloid between the mineral and the sensitive plate- .
The results were practically the same as before . .
' ' \gt ; ' 1 1 .
Pitchblende .
2 .
Uranite .
3 .
Autunite .
4 .
Orangite .
5 .
Thorite .
6 .
Euxenite .
7 .
Samarskite .
8 .
Alvite .
9 .
Broggerite .
10 .
Monazite .
11 .
Xenotime .
12 .
Arrhenite .
13 .
Sipilite .
14 .
Fergusonite .
15 .
Chalcolite .
16 .
Hielmite .
Sir W. Crookes .
7 .
Roughly speaking , the action of pitchblende is in proportion to the percentage of uranium in the mineral .
Finely powdered pitchblende of different degrees of richness were experimented with .
Cells were made of thick lead pipes half an inch internal diameter and one inch long ; closed at the lower ends with card .
They were filled with powdered pitchblende , one containing 43 per cent. Ur308 and the other 12 per cent. Ur3Os .
A sensitive plate being covered with black paper , the lead cells were laid on it and kept in total darkness for 120 hours .
The intensity of the spot under the 43 per cent , ore on development was found to be at least three times that of the one under the 12 per cent. ore .
Two lead cells were taken , one being a quarter of an inch long and the other two inches long .
They were filled completely with the 43 per cent , ore , and a sensitive plate exposed to their action for forty-eight hours .
On developing it was doubtful whether any difference existed in the intensity of the two spots , proving that the action does not pass through much thickness of active material , a quarter of an inch being equal in effect to two inches .
No difference in the action was noticed when the bottom of the cell was made of thin glass cemented on , instead of card .
Four cells were filled with pitchblende and placed side by side on a sensitive plate .
After having acted twenty-four hours the first was removed , the second after forty-eight hours , the third after seventy-two hours , and the last was kept on for ninety-six hours .
On developing the plate the spots had intensities varying with the lengths of exposure , and in about the right proportion , on the assumption that double the time of action gives double the intensity of blackening .
8 .
For convenience of comparison I had a number of glass cells made , three-quarters of an inch wide and deep , so that they could either be sealed up or closed with a cork .
A piece of apparatus was made so as to take radiographs of samples with more ease and certainty .
A lead plate , 2 mm. thick , 6| inches long , and 2\#163 ; inches wide , has circular holes punched in it , one inch in diameter .
Under the .thick plate of lead is another thinner plate , made of pure assay foil , and having holes in it , concentric with the others , but barely f inch in diameter , so that one of the small cells will not pass through the lower hole , but will pass easily through the upper hole , and thus be kept in place .
To prevent contact between the lead plate and the sensitive surface a thin sheet of celluloid is fixed beneath , with holes punched in it concentric with those in the lead plates .
In the top left corner of the lead plates is a short steel pin , which can be pressed on the sensitive plate and so register its position in respect to the cells experimented with .
The lead and celluloid plates are then bound together and the whole is fitted into a shallow wooden tray with a light-tight cover .
Radio-activity of Uranium .
413 .
A sensitive film is laid face upwards at the bottom of the wooden tray ; on this are put the lead screens , and then the experimental cells of radio-active bodies in order , careful note being taken of their relative positions .
9 .
Wishing to prepare compounds of radium and polonium , the very curious bodies discovered by M. and Mdme .
Curie , I arranged with my friend Mr. Tyrer , Stirling Chemical Works , for the systematic working up of half a ton of pitchblende .
It was necessary to examine ^ every precipitate and filtrate in each stage of the operation , and for convenience of registration they had to be compared with a standard cell filled with a substance unvarying in action .
After many trials , I selected crystallised uranium nitrate as being strongly radio-active and easily prepared pure .
This led me to the observation which forms the subject of the present paper . .
10 .
The following compounds of uranium were tested simultaneously , being put into glass cells and arranged on a lead screen with seven holes:\#151 ; 1 .
Metallic uranium , from M. Moissan .
2 .
Uranium nitrate , U02(N03)2.6H20 .
3 .
Uranium acetate .
4 .
Uranium persulphate .
5 .
Uranium protosulphate .
6 .
Uranium oxide ( green ) , UO22UO3 .
7 .
Uranium oxide ( black ) , UO2UO3 .
For twenty-four hours the sensitive plate was exposed to the influence of these bodies .
With the exception of metallic uranium , which showed least action , there was not much difference between the effect produced by any of the others .
11 .
In order to prepare uranium nitrate of great purity for a standard , I took some pounds of the commercial salt and purified it , first by solution in ether ( 13 ) , and then by repeated crystallisation .
After many operations a cell was filled with the crystals , and it was used as a standard .
To my surprise , after having acted on a sensitive plate for twenty-four hours , on development not a trace of image could be seen .
12 .
Thereupon I tried the following experiments to ascertain if the great radio-activity of some uranium compounds and the absence of it in others might be caused by some variation of physical , crystalline , or chemical condition .
Commercial uranium nitrate was taken , and\#151 ; ( 1 ) A portion was heated with excess of nitric acid to dryness on the water-bath .
It was powdered and put in a cell .
\lt ; ( 2 ) A similar portion of the salt was dissolved in alcohol , and the solution evaporated to dryness over the water-bath .
The resulting orange-coloured pasty material was ground and put in a cell , i Sir W. Crookes .
( 3 ) The salt was treated in the same way as No. 1 , except that the excess of water and acid were not driven off .
( 4 ) A small quantity was heated for some time on a water-bath till it was thoroughly dry .
It was then powdered and put in a cell .
( 5 ) 50 grains were put in a glass cell and heated on a water-bath to about 75 ' C. till it had dissolved in its water of crystallisation .
( 6 ) 50 grains in a glass cell were heated on a sand-bath to about 230 ' C. The water of crystallisation having been driven off the salt fused , and on cooling remained a hard , yellow , glassy mass .
( 7 ) A similar quantity of the same salt was heated to a little above 230 ' C. till it commenced to decompose .
( 8 ) A similar quantity was heated more strongly , till about half the nitrate had decomposed .
( 9 ) The same quantity was heated till decomposition was complete .
( 10 ) As a standard , some of the same lot of commercial uranium nitrate from which these lots were taken was put in a cell .
These ten cells were placed in a lead screen apparatus , and a sensitive plate was exposed to their influence for twenty-four hours .
On development there was not much difference between any of the impressions , that under No. 9 being a little the strongest .
Thus it appears that no modification of physical or chemical condition materially affects the radio-active property of a uranium compound when , to begin with , the salt experimented on possesses it ; other imilar experiments show that , starting with an inactive uranium salt , nothing that can be done to it will cause it to acquire this property .
It is therefore evident that , as I had suspected , the radio-active property ascribed to uranium and its compounds is not an inherent property of the element , but resides in some outside body which can be separated from it .
Having by repeated crystallisation succeeded in preparing a photographically inactive uranium nitrate , I started experiments with several pounds of the commercial salt to ascertain the readiest means of separating from it the active body .
13 .
Into a stoppered cylinder I put 1 lb. of crystallised nitrate and poured on it a pound of methylated ether , sp. gr. 072 .
The salt easily dissolved on shaking , and after a few hours the whole , of the crystals had disappeared , leaving at the bottom of the cylinder 1000 fluid grains of a heavy aqueous solution .
I separated the aqueous solution from the ethereal solution , and evaporated it to dryness to remove traces of ether .
The ethereal solution was allowed to evaporate spontaneously .
Equal quantities of the soluble and the insoluble in ether I put into glass cells and added sufficient dilute nitric acid to dissolve the salt , and then evaporated each lot to dryness on the water-bath .
: When dry the two cells , and a third containing some of the original nitrate , were put on a sensitive plate for twenty-four hours .
Radio-activity of Uranium .
' 415 - On development it was found that the action of the part undissolved by ether was very strong , that of the original nitrate not more than half as strong , while no action whatever could be detected on the part of the plate covered by the salt soluble in ether . .
1 I The portion insoluble in ether , after evaporation to dryness with I nitric acid , and then crystallisation in water , in no way-differed in appearance from ordinary uranium nitrate .
The portion-soluble dm I grtier , when dried , heated with dilute nitric acid and crystallised , also had the same appearance as the initial salt .
14 .
The crystallised nitrate from the portion insoluble in ether 1 again extracted with ether .
Most of it dissolved , and a small portion ; of heavy aqueous liquid settled at the bottom .
- As before , the nitrate which dissolved in ether had scarcely any radio-active power , while | the residue from this second extraction possessed it in a strong degree , I The residue after the second extraction was about double the activity j of the residue after the first extraction , showing that ether , while [ dissolving uranium nitrate itself with facility , does not dissolve the body to which it owes its radio-activity .
15 .
The uranium nitrate from the portion insoluble in ether , was [ submitted to fractional crystallisation in the following manner:\#151 ; The solution was evaporated until on cooling about three-fourths would crystallise out .
The beaker in which this operation was performed was called No. 1 .
When crystallisation had finished , the mother-liquor was poured into a beaker called No. 2 .
A little water was added to No. 1 and it was warmed to dissolve the crystals ; No. 2 was evaporated a little , and both were set aside to crystallise .
When If cold the mother-liquor from 2 was poured into a beaker No. 3 , the mother-liquor from 1 was poured into 2 , a little water being added to dissolve the crystals in 1 , and the contents of the three beakers were warmed and allowed again to crystallise separately .
This operation was continued as long as the uranium salt would hold , out , or till , the tests showed that the operations , had gone far enough. . .
; c u 16 .
Tests were made to see how the operations were proceeding , A portion of the crystals from No. 1 beaker was dried and put into a cell .
Some mother-liquor from the last beaker was also evaporated and crystallised , and the crystals were put in .
a cell .
The two / were placed side by side on a sensitive plate and the .action was allowed to proceed for twenty-four hours .
-On development there was , no-visible spot beneath No. 1 nitrate , while that beneath the nitrate from the other end of the fractionation was strong and black.17 , The crystals were removed from their cells , ignited to the L green oxide , and replaced .
Tested again on a sensitive plate the results were similar to those given by the unignited nitrates .
.The active substance , therefore , is seen ; to reside in the mother-liquor .
I. .
18 .
In making photographic tests it is not necessary to take much Sir W. Crookes .
of the substance .
On an ordinary microscopic slide I put a small drop of liquid from each of the highest five fractionations , Nos. 10 9 8 , 7 , and 6 .
The drops were allowed to crystallise and the slide was aid on a sensitive plate .
In twenty-four hours a good impression of No. 10 , the highest fraction , was obtained ; a less strong impression of the next , No. 9 ; a fainter one of 8 ; a scarcely perceptible one of 7 ; and no impression at all from No. 6 .
The slide containing the five crystalline spots was then covered with another glass , and the whole cemented together with Canada balsam and mounted in the manner usual with microscopic slides .
When the balsam was dry the slide was put on a sensitive plate .
In twenty-four hours a good graduated image was developed .
: 19 .
There are in commerce two kinds of uranium nitrate : one , the commercial variety , and another called " purissimum .
" I am informed that the " purissimum " is prepared from the former by repeated crystallisation .
I purchased some of each of these nitrates and tested them on a photographic plate .
The commercial variety proved to be at least twice as radio-active as the " purissimum " salt .
20 .
, Experiments were now instituted with a view of obtaining a wholly inactive uranium nitrate .
About two pounds of the salt that had been obtained from the solution in ether was repeatedly crystallised , pouring off the mother-liquor each time .
This and the next succeeding two lots of crystals ( Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) were put into cells , and kept on a sensitive plate for seven days .
On developing the plate no image could be detected where No. 1 had been ; a scarcely perceptible impression could be just detected at No. 2 , and a little stronger impression at No. 3 .
21 .
Other methods were attempted for the separation of the active substance from uranium .
Uranium nitrate fuses at a moderate temperature , and after some time it becomes darker , and nitrous fumes come off .
Finally , the mass becomes semi-fluid , and will not run .
The operation is then stopped , and the mass transferred to water ; the undecomposed nitrate is dissolved out , leaving an insoluble basic nitrate .
The basic nitrate is of an orange-yellow colour , easily dissolved in nitric acid to again form the normal nitrate .
By using this method of fractionation the active body gradually accumulates towards the basic end .
But the method is neither so complete nor so easily effected as the crystallisation method , and therefore I have not pushed it very far .
I have , however , proved that the radio-activity of nitrate of uranium can be concentrated by fractionation to the basic nitrate end , the nitrate at the other end being diminished in radioactivity . .
jj \lt ; 22 .
A highly active uranium nitrate , prepared by fractionation from the part insoluble in ether , was dissolved in water , and ammonia in excess was added .
Yellow ammonium uranate was precipitated .
Radio-activity of .
The filtrate was evaporated to dryness , and heated with nitric acid .
The yellow precipitate and the residue of the filtrate were put into cells , and laid on a sensitive plate .
After twenty-four hours action the plate was developed , when it was seen that the whole of the radio-activity resided in the ammonium uranate , the other substance showing nothing .
This experiment proves that the active body is precipitated by ammonia , and is insoluble in excess .
23 .
Another portion of active uranium nitrate was dissolved in water , with an excess of ammonium carbonate .
The first formed precipitate almost entirely re-dissolved , leaving a small quantity of insoluble light brown flocculent precipitate .
This collected on warming , like alumina .
It was filtered off , well washed and dried , and put in a glass cell .
The filtrate from the above precipitate was evaporated to drive the ammonium carbonate , when a yellow precipitate came down This was filtered , washed , dried , and put into a cell .
These precipitates were exposed for twenty-four hours in a lead screen apparatus .
On developing , it was seen that the residue insoluble in ammonium carbonate instantly flashed out black and dense , while the salt precipitated from the ammonium carbonate solution gave a scarcely discernible image .
24 .
The action of the precipitate insoluble in ammonium carbonate was so strong that another experiment was tried , exposing the sensitive plate to its action for one hour .
On development , the disc of action came out strong and black , although not so black as in the twenty -four hours ' experiment .
It was now laid for five minutes on a sensitive plate .
Here the action was distinct\#151 ; about as strong as that given by ordinary uranium nitrate in twenty-four hours .
These experiments prove that the active body can exist apart from uranium .
If a sheet of thin glass or celluloid is laid on a sensitive plate , and the dried filter-paper with its contents laid on that , and kept down by a weight , an impression is given in as short a space of time as if a glass cell had been used .
25 .
The radio-active body is not entirely insoluble in ammonium carbonate .
A portion of the very active precipitate left after separation from the uranium was dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , and an excess of ammonium carbonate added .
The precipitate was very brown due to the presence of iron , it was dried and tested .
The filtrate was well boiled , and as the ammonium carbonate evaporated a slight precipitate came down .
This was collected on a filter and tested by the side of the first precipitate .
On developing the plate the images produced by each precipitate were of about equal intensity .
The brown precipitate was digested in very dilute hydrochloric acid in the cold .
The iron partially dissolved before the rest of the substance , leaving the residue decidedly paler in colour .
This pale body Sir W. Crookes .
was just as radio-active as before the partial removal of the iron .
I Therefore the presence of iron does not interfere with the activity of the substance .
26 .
Having thus definitely proved that the supposed radio-activity I of uranium and its salts is not an inherent property of the element i but is due to the presence of a foreign body , * it is necessary patiently !
to determine the nature of the foreign body .
Several radio-active i bodies claimed to be new have already been extracted from pitch-1 blende , and experiments have been instituted to see if the newly found i body UrX had similar chemical properties to those of the older active \ substances .
27 .
Polonium was first tried .
A photographic plate had a thin ] sheet of jcelluloid laid on it , and over this a sheet of aluminium !
foil , 0-05 mm. thick .
On this double layer were put two cells , one containing basic polonium nitrate , the other active UrX .
Action was allowed to proceed for twenty-four hours , and the plate was then developed , A disc of blackening was seen under where the UrX stood , the action having passed through the glass , celluloid , and1 aluminium .
Under the polonium nitrate no trace of action could be !
detected .
The experiment was repeated , minus the aluminium foil , and the action continued only two and a quarter hours .
On development , the UrX was found to have acted well , while the polonium showed no trace of action .
28 .
This behaviour of polonium being excentric or contrary to published accounts , !
I put some polonium nitrate in a very thin gelatine capsule , and laid it for- eight hours on a sensitive plate ; No trace of an image could be seen on development .
The same polonium nitrate was put in a watch-glass , and the sensitive plate put over it face downwards , so that it might be exposed * For the sate of lucidity the new body must have a name .
Until it is more tractable I will call it provisionally UrX\#151 ; the unknown substance in uranium .
f " The rays emitted by compounds of polonium render barium platinocyanide fluorescent . . .
To mate the experiment , place on the active substance a very thin sheet of aluminium , and on this a thin layer of barium platinocyanide ; in the dark the barium platinocyanide appears feebly luminous over the active substance " ( M. and Mdme .
Curie and M. Bemont , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 127 , p. 1215 ; * Chem. News , ' vol. 79 , p. 1 ) .
" Polonic rays act on sensitive plates .
The substance we call sulphide of polonium gives a good impression after only three minutes , and there is a decided action noticed after even half a minute " { Mdme .
Curie , 'Revue Gl-enerale des Sci. , ' January 30 , 1899 ; 'Chem .
News , ' vol. 79 , p. 77 ) .
In the same paper the authoress , after describing the power possessed by a polonium compound to excite phosphorescence , says : " the rays emitted by this latter body have traversed the aluminium and excited the fluorescence of the platinocyanide above it .
" It is evident from the above extracts that I was justified in thinking that polonium rays were not entirely stopped by thin aluminium , glass , or celluloid .
Badio-acUvity of Uranium .
to the direct emanations from the polonium nitrate .
On the top of the plate was laid a. sheet of lead to press it tight-to the edges of the TThe exposure was continued for twenty-eight hours .
On developing a strong action was seen , strongest in the middle where opposed to the thickest part of the heap of polonium nitrate , and weaker towards the edge .
A well-marked action took place all over the plate exposed to the interior of the watch-glass , but it was sharply cut off at the edges .
This confirms the previous results\#151 ; that the emanations from polonium are of a different character to those from [ radium or UrX , both of which pass through glass , aluminium , and lead 29 .
Another property of polonium sharply distinguishing it from | XJrX is volatility .
The discoverers first obtained it by subliming I pitchblende in vacuo .
Afterwards they used this property to separate it from bismuth , the polonium and the bismuth sulphides depositing I at different parts of the hot tube . . . .
A strongly radio-active compound of UrX was ignited in a j blowpipe flame with the addition of a drop of sulphuric acid .
Its radio-activity , on a sensitive plate , was not diminished by this treatment .
This experiment was tried several times at increasingly higher I temperatures , and always with the same result .
_ .
_ 30 .
Polonium is precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen , m an acid | solution : An acid or neutral solution of UrX is not precipitated I by this- reagent .
Therefore I am justified in saying my UrX is not I I ^ 31 .
But it is not so easy to settle whether UrX is distinct from | radium , although many arguments point to its not being radium .
The discoverers of radium give several of its chemical properties , !
and in most of these UrX and Ra are entirely different Thus , | radium sulphate is said to be insoluble in water and acids , while ' UrX dissolves easily to a clear solution m dilute sulphuric acid .
Radium salts are said not to be precipitated by ammonium sulphide or by ammonia , while UrX is precipitated by both . .
32 .
It was hoped that doubtful points might be settled conclusively by the spectrum , as both radium and polonium give well-defined and characteristic lines , especially in the ultra-violet part of the spectrum where I have chiefly worked .
M. DemarQay* has given a list of some of the principal lines in the radium spectrum between the wave-lengths 3649-6 to 4826-3 , the one at 3814-7 being very strong , and those at 4683-0 , 4340-6 , and 3649'6 being next in intensity . .
He draws special attention to the line at 3814*7 as the line showing first in a compound poor in radium .
In none of my UrX compounds , have I been able to detect a trace of this line ; on the other hand I have * * Comptes Rendus/ vol. 124 , p. 716 ; ' Clem .
News , ' vol. 80 , p. 259 .
Sir W. Crookes .
failed to photograph this line in products which I know contain radium .
The reason is my radium compound is too weak .
M. Demargay says the line is scarcely visible with a radium compound only sixty times as active as uranium .
My substance containing radium was still weaker , judging from its action on a photographic plate .
33 .
The same reasoning applies to polonium .
With polonium I have obtained strong lines in the ultra-violet , but I can detect none of them in the spectrum of my compound of UrX .
All that I can see are lines belonging to\#151 ; Platinum ( from the poles ) , Uranium , Calcium , Aluminium , and a few of the strongest air lines , besides a large number of faint lines difficult to identify .
34 .
Spectrum experiments having failed to show a difference between radium and UrX , it was thought that possibly some information might be gained by submitting them to the radiant matter test , which has : proved so fruitful in its application to the yttrium earths .
Some of the most active UrX was put in a tube furnished with a pair of terminals , and it was exhausted to a high point , heat being applied during exhaustion .
Simultaneously a self-luminous radium compound was sealed in a vacuum tube and exhausted , heat being likewise applied .
When fully exhausted a strong induction spark was passed through each tube .
The UrX compound phosphoresced of a fine blue colour .
In the spectroscope no discontinuity could be seen in the spectrum of the phosphorescent light .
Under the influence of the induction spark , the radium compound phosphoresced of a luminous rose-colour , showing in the spectroscope .
a concentration of light in the red-orange , and a very faint citron band , due to a trace of yttrium , probably an impurity .
35 .
A powerful radium compound and one of UrX , each in a glass cell , and a paper tray full of polonium sub-nitrate , were placed side by side , and a strip of white card was put as a reflector at the back .
In front a photographic camera was arranged so as to throw full-sized images of the polonium , UrX , and radium compounds on a sensitive plate , and the whole was kept in total darkness for five days .
Oft development the image of the radium with the containing bottle was visible , but not a trace of image from the polonium could be seen .
1 This confirms previous observations that the radiations from polonium will -not pass through glass .
Those from radium and UrX easily penetrate glass and other media ( 28 ) .
36 .
Recently claims have been put forward for the existence of a Radio-activity of Uranium .
421 third radio-active body in pitchblende .
In the ' Comptes Rendus ' for October 16 , 1899 , and April 2 , 1900 , M. A. Debierne describes a radioactive body , to which he gives the name of c miim .
he said " actinium " showed the principal analytical properties of titanium , but later he describes it as not resembling titanium in all its reactions .
M. Debierne gives many reactions of the new substance , and in some instances they are like those of radium .
But he qualifies them by the statement that they cannot yet be considered as belonging definlte y to the new radio-active substance , because up to the priami* hasp* been obtained sufficiently concentrated .
He believes rather that the reactions should be looked upon as the result of retention " f to that of iron oxide by barium sulphate .
He says that the ^emicdi reactions of the most active substance which heobtained with its spectroscopic examination , showed that it chiefly consists of thorium .
He cannot , however , be sure that it resembles thorium all its reactions . .
, .______-n . !
37 .
Experiments have been commenced to see if it is p separate thorium compounds into an active and an inactive body .
A i strong solution of thorium sulphate was slightly acidulated with sul- , phurie acid , and gradually raised to the boiling pointA I precipitate of sulphate came down , and was filtered hot .
The pre f cipitl was dissolved in cold water , and the solution I when a precipitation of the sulphate again occurred The mother I liquor from one crystallisation was added to the crystals from another I in the systematic manner adopted in fractionation , andi when 1the opera-1 tions had proceeded some time a test was made on the bead mi .
" tail .
" A small quantity of solution from each was evaporated to I dryness and strongly ignited before the blowpipe .
The two lota of I earth were put in cells and a sensitive plate exposed to then^action I for seventy-two hours .
On development not the ^ 'w ^he I could be detected between the impressions produced by either of the I 'Tntxt tried partial crystallisation of thorium nitrate , fractionating I it in the way already described in the case of uranium ( 15 ) .
Oreat I difficulties were here encountered , owing to the tendency o a s rang solution of thorium nitrate to remain supersaturated for several days when it would suddenly crystallise to a solid mass .
After some | weeks , however , six fractionations were effected , and tests were m I on the first and last of the series .
.________ 0n The sensitive plate was exposed to their action for 1- " development , the fraction at the first end ( crystals ) gave a very feeble ' action , while that at the other end ( mother-liquors ) gave an_Bj\#171 ; * I cion about three times as intense .
This points to the possibdity of f separating from thorium its radio-active substance .
By the kindness of Dr. Knofler , of Berlin , who makes thorium VOL. LXVI .
2 i 422 Madio-activity of Uranium .
nitrate by the ton , I have at my disposal some specially prepared thorium nitrate , which is chemically pure .
Thoria prepared from this , tested on a sensitive plate , gave a feeble impression in 120 hours .
38 .
In the present state of our knowledge of these radio-active bodies it is safest to retain an open , or even a slightly sceptical , mind .
We recognise them mainly by the photographic and the electrical tests\#151 ; reactions which are so sensitive that they give strong results , even when the active body is present in too small a quantity to be detected by its spectrum\#151 ; one of the most delicate of tests .
Knowing the tendency of ordinary chemical bodies to be carried down when a precipitate is formed in their presence , even when no question of sparse solubility is involved , it is not surprising that radium and actinium , to say nothing of UrX , appear to simulate elements which may ultimately prove to be very different from them in chemical characters .
For instance , UrX dissolves easily in dilute sulphuric acid , and , I have reason to believe , forms a soluble sulphate ; still , when chloride of barium is mixed with it and precipitated as a sulphate , I invariably find strong radio-activity in the precipitated sulphate as well as in the filtrate from the barium sulphate .
To adduce a simile from my previous researches , the first surmises as to the chemical characteristics of the bodies now known to be yttrium and samarium , were widely different from reality .
The differences were entirely due to the perturbing cause which is active in the present case\#151 ; the tendency of the bodies to be carried down and entangled in precipitates , where , according to ordinary chemical laws , ' they ought not to occur ; and to the extreme delicacy of the radiant matter test , which in the case of samarium detects one part in 2\ million parts of calcium , and in the case of yttrium detects one part in the presence of a million parts of extraneous matter .
39 .
The radiographic test for these active bodies presents another point to be borne in mind .
Other tests for the presence of an element either act quickly , or do not act at all , with a comparatively narrow margin of debateable land where the indications of the test may be doubtful .
Here , however , the test is cumulative .
Like an astronomer photographing stars too faint for his telescope to disclose , he has only to expose the plate for a sufficiently long time and the star reveals itself on development .
So , in the case of radio-active minerals or precipitates , if no action is apparent at the end of an horn* , one may be shown after twenty-four hours .
If a day 's exposure will show nothing , try a week 's .
Considering my most active UrX does not ; contain sufficient of the real material to show in the spectrograph , j yet is powerful enough to give a good impression on a photographic jj plate in five minutes , what must be its dilution in compounds which require an hour , a day , or a week to give an action 1 Sir JVm .
Crookes .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. Col. Pi .
5- Proceedings and List of Papers read .
i , __Photograph taken by daylight of a cut and polished surface of pitchblende .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Radiograph impressed in the dark by the same surface , showing the portions ( white ) emitting radiant energy .
The luminous parts are pitchblende , the dark parts are felspar , quartz , pyrites , \amp ; c. ( see para .
5 ) .
May31 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. Robert Bell ( elected 1897 ) was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced that the subscription portrait of Sir John Evans , painted by Mr. A. S. Cope , A.R.A. , had been handed over foi the acceptance of the Society by the Portrait Committee .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Palaeolithic Man in Africa .
" By Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , F.R.S. II .
" On the Estimation of the Luminosity of Coloured Surfaces used for Colour Discs .
" By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. III .
" The Sensitiveness of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
By Major-General J. Waterhouse , I.S.C. Communicated by Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. IV .
" The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
Second Paper .
" By Pro- fessor Ewing , F.R.S. , and W. Rosenhain .
V. " Vapour-density of Bromine at High Temperatures .
Supplementary Note .
" By Dr. E. P. Perman and G. A. S. Atkinson .
Communicated by Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. VI .
" Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen on Bacteria .
By Dr. A. Macfadyen and S. Rowland .
Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Ihursdayr June 14 .
VOL. LXVI .

