32 Dr- G- Gore- [ Dec. 18 , In connexion with my present line of work I have had to return to the spectrum of hydrogen , and I have photographed it , using an end-on tube , which I owe to the kindness of Dr. Monkhoven , whose device it is * In the spectrum of the Monkhoven tube h is very well seen , though not so strong as the line near Gr .
What I wish , however , to draw special attention to now , is the fact that other lines more refrangible are seen ; in the photographs I have obtained , one of them , within the limits of dispersion that I have employed ( one dense prism of 60 ' , collimator 18 inches , and a small Dalmeyer rectilinear lens in the camera ) , is coincident with a line observed in the spectrum of calcium at A , 3968'0 ( H ) .
More photographs are required to enable me to give the approximate positions of the other lines more refrangible .
VI .
" On the Capillary Electroscope .
" By Gr .
Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1879 .
The following research was commenced with the hope of being able to make an exact measuring instrument of a modified form which I had devised ( see page 3/ ) of the " Capillary Electroscope , " and to employ it for the determination of the different degrees of electromotive force of different metals in forming tables of electro-chemical series , with different electrolytic solutions.f With this object in view , I constructed and tried a considerable number of forms of the instrument ; and employed a number of liquids , acid , neutral , and alkaline , as conducting media between the mercurial electrodes .
In every case , however , an obstacle to uniform and accurate measurement sooner or later arose , viz. , unequal adhesion of the mercury to different parts of the capillary tube .
It has been noticed by other investigators that the motion of the slender column of mercury in Lippmann 's " Capillary Electrometer " suddenly stops whilst under the electric influence , and this has been supposed to increase the value of the instrument by rendering its indications sensibly instantaneous .
According to Lippmann also when the circuit was closed by a metallic conductor , " all irregularities at once disappeared " ( " Phil. Mag. , " April , 1874 , p. 284 ) .
This sudden stoppage of the mercury , however , whilst under the influence of the current is , I believe , in every case due to a sudden increase of mechanical resistance , usually caused by unequal adhesion * It is right to add , however , that this form of tube also suggested itself to Professor Piazzi Smyth quite independently .
f See " On the Chemico-Electric Relations of Metals in Solutions of Salts of Potassium .
" L8 7i\gt ; .
] On the Capillary of the mercury to different parts of the tube , but sometimes by a minute trace of solid substance in the tube .
With a very feeble current this adhesion shows itself in several ways , usually by a more or less sudden retardation or stoppage of the motion of the mercurial column , hy a delay in its commencement of motion , or by its nonmovement .
The current I have employed has , in nearly all cases , been a very feeble one , obtained from two wires , one of copper , and the other of platinum , each about 1 millim. diameter , immersed about 2 or 3 millims. deep in common drinking water .
With a very sensitive instrument , and a capillary tube as free from obstruction as could be obtained , this power has been sufficient to move the meniscus 10 or 20 millims. A common cause of obstruction consists of impurities ( especially oxide ) in the mercury ; the metal therefore should be as pure as possible .
I have obtained it sufficiently pure by distilling the ordinary metal twice , then shaking it violently with dilute nitric acid , washing* it with distilled water , shaking it again strongly with a dilute solution of potassic cyanide ( which very effectually removes oxide ) , washing it again , and filtering it through a minute hole in the point of a paper funnel .
The mercury should be kept in a closed bottle , and be frequently filtered to remove dust from its surface whilst being used , because the most minute speck of solid matter , even that which is invisible to the unassisted eye , is sufficient to stop the capillary tube .
The solution also should be kept perfectly clear by means of filtration .
Another cause of stoppage is the employment of glass tubing into which dust has been allowed to enter ; this may be obviated by employing newly-made tubing , sealed at its ends by wax ; with such tubing I have obtained no manifest advantage by washing it with acids , alkalies , ether , \amp ; c. , nor by allowing a stream of clean mercury to run through it .
After having taken all these precautions , there remains a very common cause of stoppage of the motion of the mercury , viz. , portions of air or gas adhering to the tube ; these consist either of minute films of air , or if the current is too strong , also bubbles of gas liberated from the electrolyte .
One of the most effectual modes of removing the air or gas is to repeatedly cause by mechanical means ( such as compression of the pressure-chamber , or by change of position of the instrument from horizontal to vertical and vice versa ) the mercury and conducting solution to move freely to and fro through the whole of the fine part of the tube whilst the circuit is closed , and expelling occasionally a few drops of mercury from the end of the tube ; employing also an electric current in a suitable direction to assist the motion .
If there remain any adhering portions which are not removable by these means , diminished pressure , combined with an electric current from the point of the capillary towards its larger part , and the simultaneous VOL. xxx .
D Dr. G. Gore .
[ Dec. 18 , application of a hot plate of metal to the locality of the adhesion , rarely fails to remove them .
Notwithstanding , however , all these precautions , the meniscus often subsequently sticks at a particular place without any apparent cause , and without the presence of any body visible by the aid of a microscope magnifying from 30 to 50 diameters .
Free use of the instrument reduces many of these adhesions ; it also gives rise to fresh ones .
Immovable adhesions of the mercury frequently occur , or are subsequently produced by use of the instrument which interfere with the accurate measurement of so feeble an electric power as that mentioned above , and appear to be due to irregularities of smoothness in the glass itself ; the best precaution to take in such cases consists in selecting as the sphere of the movement of the meniscus a portion of the capillary tube known to be free from such a source of error ; but even such a space does not permanently remain free .
By employing a suitable tube , dilute sulphuric acid as the liquid , and taking all the above precautions , I have constantly found that the mercurial column , instead of moving from point to point with a jerk and stopping suddenly , moved with a gradually diminishing speed until it stopped .
The momentary movement and sudden stoppage occurs more readily with a short capillary tube and currents of greater power than that above mentioned , but with a long tube , as free as obtainable from irregular adhesion , a movement of from 10 to 20 millims. not unfrequently occurs , requiring in some cases as much as 80 millims. variation of height of mercury pressure to bring the meniscus back to its original point .
If the tube happens to be one of parallel bore , and especially if its lower part enlarges towards its lower extremity , such a current as the one mentioned will cause the meniscus to descend as much even as 5 or 6 centims. , and the mercury to run out at the end of the tube .
The influence of gravity no doubt operates in all these cases , but with the same electric power , and whilst using a tube the diameter of which does not diminish too rapidly towards its point , the column usually moves more readily towards the end of the capillary than the reverse , whether the instrument be in a vertical or horizontal position .
The mercury in all cases tends also to pass from the form of a cylinder to that of a sphere , and if it once gets beyond the end of the tube , it forms a globule which draws the narrower part rapidly into itself by its great cohesion .
Similarly if the tube is too taper the mercury tends to draw itself upwards towards the wider cavity .
A good capillary tube is essential ; the only way I know of obtaining it is to make a number of tubes and try them until a suitable one is found .
Glass tubing , of an external diameter of about 6 to 8 millims. , and having a bore of about one-third or one-fourth of a millimetre , is of a very convenient size for making the capillary , because 1879 .
] On the Capillary Electroscope .
it may be di*awn out to a sufficient degree of fineness at one heating ; that having a circular bore it is less likely to become clogged by use than that which is oval ; and it is an advantage to employ that which has white enamel at the back .
Success in making the capillary depends largely upon careful manipulation and the employment of a flame of suitable size ; I have used a Bunsen flame about an inch in height and half an inch in diameter , for drawing long capillaries by a single heating , or a very minute flame of a small spirit-lamp for drawing out a short one by a second heating .
Within certain limits , I have found that the finer the capillary tube the greater is the movement in it of the meniscus by a given electromotive force , and the greater the pressure required to balance that force ; but if the bore of the tube be extremely fine , say '01 millim. , the instrument becomes less sensitive , probably owing to increased adhesion or to increased conduction-resistance of the minute column of solution .
A convenient bore is about '03 to '04 millim. , and an external diameter of '3 to '4 millim. Under uniform pressure , the meniscus moves not only through a much greater length , but also at a much faster rate , in the finer portion of a tube of moderate diameter , than it does in the coarser part , and this occurs even in tubes the internal diameter of which diminishes to their very extremity .
Tubes of parallel bore are not usually suitable for the instrument ( especially if the latter is used in a vertical position ) , because , instead of presenting a resistance gradually increasing downwards , as they should do , they offer the reverse .
The best form of capillary is one which becomes narrower at a sufficiently increasing degree towards its free end .
I have employed capillaries varying in length from 5 to 15 centims. with equal advantage .
Considerable pressure is often requisite for filling the capillary tube , and for overcoming obstructions ; to produce it , a compressible pressure-chamber is much more convenient than a tall column of mercury .
An excellent chamber may be formed of a piece of vulcanized india-rubber tubing , about 6 or 8 centims. long , 3 millims. bore , and 15 millims. external diameter , such as is employed as " engine-packing .
" It is more convenient to have the platinum wire ( for connexion with the column of mercury ) inserted through the side of this tube than through that of the glass one , because the former does not so readily cause the wire to be broken .
To insert the wire , one end of the tube is stretched open by means of a small pair of pliers ; a needle , wet with glycerine , is then forced very obliquely through the india-rubber close to the end of the tube , and after its removal - a fine wire may be readily forced through the minute stretched hole and the pliers then withdrawn .
After the capillary tube has been fixed in this chamber ( which must be previously made scrupulously clean ) , the end of the chamber adjacent to the terminal and capillary must be securely bound round D 2 Dr. G. Gore .
[ Dec. 18 , .
with wire to prevent leakage .
As it often requires considerable pressure to force the mercury through the tube , especially when there exists both a mechanical obstacle and a stoppage of the electric current , a strong pressure screw , with its clamp capable of grasping at least an inch in length of the chamber , is absolutely necessary .
I have tried several plans of mechanically compensating the electro-capillary effect , the most convenient of which is to surmount the pressure.chamber by a vertical glass tube about 30 or 40 centims. high , and 1 millim. bore , with its lower end opening into the chamber , and its upper end also open , but capable of being closed by means of a glass cock , having an open cup at its upper extremity .
This arrangement admits of great pressure being applied to the chamber , by means of the screw and clamp , and also of crudely measuring in millimetres height of mercury the compensating pressure necessary to depress the mercury to the neutral point whilst the current is passing .
This upper tube also , like the capillary one , has the disadvantage of offering unequal resistance to the passage of the mercury by unequal adhesion , so that a small movement of the screw of the pressure-chamber is not often at once attended by a simultaneous movement of the mercury at the top and bottom of the column .
The voltaic current was very conveniently manipulated by the aid of a small moveable apparatus , so constructed that by turning its handle the first quarter of a revolution , the two wires of the electroscope were connected metallically together , and the current insulated from them ; by turning it a second quarter , the current was sent in one direction through the electroscope ; by turning it a third , the wires of the electroscope were disconnected and perfectly insulated ( the base of the instrument being of ebonite ) ; and by turning it the fourth quarter , the current was sent through the electroscope in a reverse direction .
This apparatus may be easily made by prolonging the axis of a common electric reverser , fixing two projecting metal studs on opposite sides of the prolonged part ( but not opposite to each other ) , and attaching two vertical springs to two binding-screws fixed on the base , so that when the studs pressed against the upper ends of these springs , the circuit was closed between the ends of the wires attached to the two electrodes .
In the engraving , fig. 1 represents the reverser fixed vertically to a moveable wooden stand .
The dotted lines show the directions of four connecting wires at the back of the ebonite base of the instrument .
The wires from the voltaic cell are attached to two binding-screws , which are connected with the two metal standards that support the moveable axis .
The terminal wires of the electroscope are attached by means of binding screws to two vertical brass springs , so fixed as to press against the two metal studs projecting at right angles from the moveable axis ; the terminals are also further conDr .
G. Gore .
Chemico-ElectRelations of [ Dec. 18 .
nected , by means of the wires beneath the base , with the two other and ordinary vertical springs of the instrument , so that by turning the handle they may be disconnected from the studs and connected with those springs , and through them , the axis and standards , with the voltaic cell , and receive a current in either direction , according to the position of the handle .
The sketch represents the handle and axis m the above-mentioned first position , with the two wires of the electroscope metallically connected together , but insulated from the cell .
The usual form of the electroscope I have employed is represented in fig. 2 .
A is a wooden base , B a wooden upright board fixed to it .
C is the situation of the reverser .
D a microscope , capable of vertical and horizontal movement , having a magnifying power of about 30 to 50 diameters , and provided with a " spider-line .
" E is a grooved piece of wood fixed to the upright stand .
F a wooden slide , with a moveable scale , G , worked by a metal rack H , and pinion with handle , I. J is the capillary , supported by a perforated little brass shelf , K. L is the pressure-chamber .
M the-glass tube containing the compensating column of mercury .
IT a thin glass tube , about 5 millims. bore , containing the mercury and conducting solution .
O and P are the terminal platinum wires for attachment to the screws of the reverser .
Q is a strong clip , shown separate from the instrument .
R is a metal support for the clip .
S is a moveable slide of cork , carrying a very fine hair , T , for indicating the position of the meniscus .
It is not usually necessary to measure the amount of movement of the meniscus .
Some cotton wool is placed in the cup , U , and the cup is covered with a lid to exclude dust .
A strip of white paper is affixed behind the capillary portion of the tube to form a white background , and the instrument requires to be used in a good light .
Having found by additional experiments that in certain cases the mercury moves in an opposite direction to the electric current , I am now engaged in examining that fact , and in completing an investigation of the causes and conditions of the movements .
VII .
" Chemico-Electric Relations of Metals in Solutions of Salts of Potassium .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1879 .
The following experiments were made with the object of determining the chemico-electric positions of various metals , \amp ; c. , in solutions of salts of potassium of various strengths , and at different temperatures ; and also with the intention of ascertaining , by the aid of Lippmann's-

