III .
" A General Catalogue of Nebulxe and Clusters of Stars for the Year 1860'0 , with Precessions for 1880 0 " .
By Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , F.R.S. Received Oct. 16 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) This Catalogue contains all the nebulue and clusters of stars which its compiler has been able to find anywhere described , and identified in posi .
tion sufficiently to warrant their inclusion , with exception of a few which , having been observed by Lacaille or others with telescopes of very small power , have been obviously nothing but insignificant groups of small stars indistinctlv-seen .
The number , of objects comprised in it is 5078 , including -1st .
2508 nebuln and clusters described by the late Sir Wm. I-lersehel in his Catalogues of Nebulse communicated to the Royal Society .
2ndly .
Those comprised in the lists published by Messier , discovered by himself , Mairan , Oriani , and others , to the number of 102 .
3rdly .
Those contained in M. Auiwers 's list of " New Nebulae " ( Verzeichniss nieuer Nebelflecke ) at the end of his Catalogue of Sir Wm. Ieerschel 's nebulee ( about 50 in number ) , and those few of Lacaille 's nebule which seem entitled to be regarded as such from the description given of then .
4thly .
A great many nebulae pointed out by Lord Rosse in his paper in Phil. Trans. 1861 , their places bei'g inidicatec with sufficient probable precision to low of 'their being re-observed and idenitified .
5thly .
125 Inew nebulue obligingly commuunicated by M. D'Arrest , of his own discovery , for inclusion in this -Catalogue ; and some few others ( some very remarkable ones ) collected from various sou-rees , as announiced from time to time by their respective discoverers .
And 6thly .
15 nebule not before described , communcated by Professor Bond , which are included in a small supplementary list .
The remainder will be found described and their places ( reduced to 1830 ) given in the Catalogue of Nebulue and Clusters communiicated to the Royal Society by the compiler in 1833 , and in his ' Results of Astronomlcal Observations at the Cape of Good Hope , ' published in 1847 .
The places of the objects containied in the present Catalogue were in the first instance brought up by its compiler to the coimon epoch ( 1830 ) , availing himnself , so far as respects the nebulae of Sir Wm. Herschel 's catalogues , of a reduction to 1800 of all the individual observations of each nebula , by his sister the late Miss Caroline Herschel , which reduction , arranged in the form of a catalogue in zones , together with the originals of all the " ' sweeps " in which the observations are contained , and a synoptic register of those of each niebula in separate sheets for reference , withother origin al papers elucidatory of the above-mentioned documents , as well as the whole series of Sir Win .
I-erschel 's observations of Messier 's nebule , accompany this communication for future reference .
In order , however , to renider the catalogue so compiled available for future observation , it was con1sidered desirable to bring the whole up to a later epoch .
The computations necessary for this purpose being very extensive and of a nature to be safely entrusted to other hands , the Royal Society , on the application of the compiler , readily and most liberally consented to supply the funds for defraying the necessary expense of this operation .
On consultation with the Astronomer Royal , it was resolved that the places having been first roughly brought up to 1860 , the places so obtainied should be used to compute the precessions for 1880 , 6y the aplication of which to the original places the final and exact places for 1860 should be obtained and entered up .
This will secure the availability for the use of observations , of the present Catalogue , without fear of material error up to the year 1930 at least .
The actual computation was executed by Mr. Kerschner , one of the computists employed at the Royal Observatory , the Astronomer Royal kindly undertaking the arrangement and supervision of the work .
The computations were made on printed forms , and are preserved for reference .
The Catalogue is arranged in general order of right ascension-in columns , containing a current general number , four columns of synonyms and references to the original authorities ; the right ascension , precession in R.A. , and the number of observations on which this element relie 's ; .
a similar set of columns for the North Polar distance , and a brief .
description , in abbreviaited language , of the object , deduced from a careful comparison inter se of all the descriptions given in the original observations .
Lastly , are appended two columns , the one containing the total number of times the object has been seen by Sir Win .
Herschel and by the author of the present paper ; the other , references to a series of notes annexed at the end of the Catalogue , and to a general list of places where engraved figures of the objects will be found .
The notes so appended contain remarks on every particular brought under discussion as affecting the evidence on which the adopted places rest , and whatever else may be considered requiring explanation in reference to each object .
In particular they give the results of a very careful comparison of the present Catalogue with the elaborate catalogue ( for 1830 ) of M. Auwers , already mentioned , of the existence of which the compiler was not aware till the whole of the computations had been completed and the present Catalogue arranged and copied out .
This comparison has led to the detection ( as might very reasonably be expected ) of several instances of mistaken identification of stars of comparison , and some few of numerical error , and has so far resulted in the expurgation and improvement of both catalogues .
A general list of figured nebulse , with references to the works in which the figures are to be found , and lists of errata and corrections discovered in the various works consulted , concludes the work .

