20 7 On the Presence of Haem-agglutinins , Hcem-opsonins , and Hcemolysins in the Blood obtained from Infectious and Non-Infectious Diseases in Man .
( Report .
) By Leonard S. Dudgeon , F.R.C.P. Loud .
( Communicated by Dr. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. Received February 18 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1909 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratories , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) On July 31 , 1908 , my preliminary communication on this subject was received by the Royal Society and was read on November 12 , 1908 .
In this report attention was drawn to certain phenomena occurring when normal and immune human serum was allowed to act in the presence of normal and immune human blood cells .
The whole of the investigations were carried out with human blood obtained from various infective and non-infective diseases in man .
The technique adopted in all experiments was referred to in detail , and will not be described in the present communication .
The most important results were obtained in the examination of the agglutinative properties of the blood when an interaction took place between serum and red cells .
It was shown that auto-agglutination was a rare phenomenon , but iso-agglutination was common .
In some instances haem-agglutination occurred when the immune serum and normal red cells were mixed together ; in other cases the effect was produced by the interaction of normal serum and immune red cells .
In many examples of this reaction the agglutinated red cells were altered in shape and size , especially when the clumps were exceptionally large .
Attention was drawn to the distinction between agglutination of red blood corpuscles and agglutination of rouleaux .
Saturation experiments were performed , and the specificity of the various reactions was demonstrated .
Immune serum from cases of infection with the bacillus typhosus was rendered specifically inactive by saturation with suitable red cells , although the bacterial agglutinins remained .
Attention must be drawn to the fact that it was stated in the preliminary report that agglutination was not observed when normal serum was added to normal red cells , either of the same individual or from another healthy person , with one exception .
A considerable amount of further investigation along this line has shown that the second part of this statement requires alteration , as will be subsequently referred to .
Experiments on phagocytosis of red blood corpuscles were in the main negative , although numerous methods were adopted .
It was in only one case Mr. L. S. Dudgeon .
On th Presence of [ Feb. 18 .
out of the entire number investigated that the phagocytosis was well marked .
In the majority of instances the experiments on haemolysis led to negative results .
In one case of acute poisoning , of unknown nature , physiological salt solution ( 0'85-per-cent , pure sodium chloride ) was found to be able to haemolyse the immune red cells .
In two cases of pneumonia evidence of haemolysis was tested for in the blood examined vitro .
In one instance well-marked auto-haemolysis occurred , in the other iso-haemolysis .
Some degree of iso-haemolysis was noted occasionally in the experiments with the blood obtained from other diseases , and in one further case auto-haemolysis .
In the present communication many more interesting results have been obtained in various experiments conducted along the same lines and much more additional information acquired .
It will be necessary at the commencement to give a list of the various diseases that have been investigated , and to point out that exactly the same care has been exercised in proving the accuracy of the diagnosis .
14 cases of typhoid fever ; 9 cases of tuberculosis ( mostly acute pulmonary ) ; 3 cases of acute peritonitis due to appendicitis ; 14 cases of anaemia ( 7 of pernicious anaemia ) , myelaemia , congenital cholaemia , and examples of anaemia secondary to various well recognised conditions ; 7 cases of acute pneumonia ; 6 cases of acute streptococcus infection ; 2 cases of epilepsy ; 4 cases of syphilis ; 2 cases of diabetic coma ; 3 cases of malignant disease ; 5 cases of obscure toxaemia , including one case of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria .
Hcemolysins .
The technique adopted was exactly that already referred to in the preliminary report , with the additional observations obtained by allowing the mixture of serum and red cells to be in contact in ice for 1 hour previous to incubation at 37 ' C. for a similar period , followed by exposure to ice for several hours .
These final results in all cases were similar , so that this method was abandoned .
In the previous paper , the following conclusion was arrived at:\#151 ; " In all these experiments on haemolysis , it was only occasionally that the haemolytic action was distinctly shown ; in the majority of instances no haemolysis occurred .
" Typhoid Fever.\#151 ; No haemolysis was noted in any of the cases of typhoid fever which were examined .
The results obtained in this disease , as in many others , were probably due to the fact that serum was only occasionally employed in these experiments .
Out of the total number of cases investigated in the present series\#151 ; 14\#151 ; haemolysis was demonstrated in nine instances\#151 ; a very high proportion .
1909 .
] Hre m - aggluti nins , etc. , the Blood .
It has been noted in these experiments that when the immune serum causes haemolysis of normal red cells that the cases are of the severe toxic type and terminate fatally .
It is true that the number of cases investigated is too small to lay too much emphasis on this observation , but it is unquestionably important .
In the first case , immune serum caused marked haemolysis in the presence of normal red cells .
A gradual diminution in the reaction occurred from the mixture which contained 75*0 per cent , of serum down to that which had a serum content of 25*0 per cent. , and in one instance 12*5 per cent. In the second case , which terminated fatally , an exactly similar result was noted ; in the third case , the blood examined a few days before death and that obtained at the post-mortem examination gave a similar result , with the exception that the serum obtained during life had a slightly greater potency .
In the remaining cases in which haemolysis occurred , it was due to the action of normal serum on the immune red cells , and the reaction took place with about the same serum content as with the immune serum and normal red cells in the fatal cases .
In all the experiments immune serum and immune red cells failed to react ; in fact , no other type of haemolysis occurred beyond that referred to .
The blood of a case of paroxysmal haemoglobinuria has been examined during the acute attack and during the interval .
The blood drawn from the finger in the usual way failed to show tinging of the serum with haemoglobin when the usual precautions were adopted .
It can be stated briefly that during the height of an acute attack , which is caused by severe cold , that the blood undergoes auto-haemolysis , but when tested as the attack subsides , although the man is obviously ill , no auto-haemolysis can be demonstrated .
The immune serum also fails to haemolyse normal red cells , although it agglutinates them strongly , and the immune urine fails to haemolyse the immune red cells .
When , however , normal serum is added in definite measured volumes to the immune red cells , haemolysis occurs , although not to any very great extent , and haemolysing agglutinins can be similarly demonstrated .
It would seem that the red cells themselves are principally affected\#151 ; a point still further illustrated by the phagocytic experiments to be subsequently referred to .
The blood of two cases of diabetic coma obtained after death failed to haemolyse the immune red cells , but , as in the fatal cases of typhoid fever , haemolysed normal red cells and agglutinated them strongly ; in each instance haemolysis occurred down to a serum content in the mixture of 37*5 per cent. Splenic Extract.\#151 ; Owing to observations made on the splenic cells in certain diseases in which much phagocytosis of red cells occurs , it suggested Mr. L. S. Dudgeon .
On Presence [ Feb. 18 , itself that in the splenic juice might be found a substance or substances intimately concerned with phagocytosis , haemolysis , and certain other phenomena , although absent or present in an infinitesimal degree in the blood serum .
The spleen from one of the cases of diabetic coma was extracted in a suitable machine , the thick lumpy extract filtered at high speed , and the centrifugalisation repeated with the upper layer of extract which separated during the first stage .
This final sticky , but thin extract , was used for testing its haemolytic value on normal red cells and the autoimmune cells as in the case of serum investigation .
Four series of experiments were made by allowing the splenic extract to act on auto-immune cells and normal cells , incubating the mixtures at 37 ' C. for one hour , and then in the ice safe over night .
A similar double series of tubes prepared in an identical manner were first placed in ice overnight , then at 37 ' C. for two hours , and finally in ice for several hours .
All results were identical .
It must be pointed out here that the haemolytic mixture was proved to be free from bacteria .
Now while the immune blood serum in this case failed to haemolyse the immune red cells , and only reacted slightly in the presence of normal cells , the action being limited to a serum content of 37'5 per cent. , yet the splenic extract was equally and strongly haemolytic to normal and the auto-immune cells .
The action was complete with a splenic content of 25 per cent. , and limited to a mixture containing 0'25 per cent , of splenic extract .
In a case of pernicious anaemia , on the other hand , neither the immune serum nor splenic extract haemolysed the immune red cells .
It is impossible , on the results of two experiments , to refer more fully to these investigations on the haemolysing action of the splenic extracts on red blood cells , but from the work of H4din and others we know that the spleen does contain proteid enzymes of considerable potency .
The blood was investigated very fully in seven cases of pernicious anaemia , and of all diseases it might well be imagined that auto-haemolysis would be demonstrated in this one .
In the preliminary communication it was pointed out that auto-haemolysis could not be proved .
In this paper a similar result must be recorded , neither could haemolysis be induced by allowing the immune serum to act on normal red cells .
It was found , however , that the immune serum had the same power to haemolyse guinea-pigs ' red cells as normal human serum possessed .
In three instances normal serum was capable of haemolysing the pernicious red cells to a marked degree : in each example haemolysing agglutinins were present , while in two out of the three cases phagocytosis of the immune red cells occurred to a striking degree in the presence of normal serum and normal leucocytes .
1909 .
] Ham-agglutinins , etc. , the Blood .
In one instance , although normal serum hsemolysed the immune red cells during the patient 's life , yet the action failed to take place with the immune cells after death .
In every case the serum had the same striking greenish yellow coloration previously referred to .
In a case of acute primary syphilis , normal human serum was found to cause a high degree of haemolysis in the presence of immune red cells , and the immune serum had a somewhat similar although less marked action on normal red cells .
A similar result occurred in a case of acute pneumonia .
The immune serum , when acting on normal red cells and the normal serum on immune cells , showed a high and equal degree of haemolysis , while the immune serum and immune red cells failed to react .
These are the most important and striking results in the haemolytic experiments , but it is necessary to emphasise the fact that many more positive results have been obtained than are quoted in the previous report , and those which are of special importance occurred in the blood reactions of the typhoid fever patients .
In many of these experiments on haemolysis , and similarly in the agglutination and phagocytic investigations , the chief interest centres around the immune red cells .
It is especially concerning these bodies that further research is being conducted .
Haem-agglutinins Attention has already been drawn to the fact that the same technique has been adopted in all these experiments as previously given in detail in the preliminary communication .
I must again emphasise the rarity of auto-agglutination of red blood corpuscles .
With one striking exception\#151 ; that .of a black man\#151 ; no true example has been met with .
This case will he subsequently referred to in detail .
In every instance , without exception , iso-agglutination occurred whenever iso-haemolysis was demonstrated .
While the agglutination experiments were being examined microscopically it was generally , possible to detect the haemolytic agglutinins from the pure agglutinins .
In the former , many red cells at the margin of the clumps were smaller than those centrally placed and greatly resembled oil droplets .
In the most striking instances , free haemoglobin could be seen and numerous ghosts .
Iso-agglutination was of common occurrence in many diseases , as stated in the preliminary communication .
This was especially so in typhoid fever and tuberculosis .
Mr. L. S. Dudgeon .
On th Presence of [ Feb. 18 , Hcem-agglutininsin Normal Blood .
Attention has already been drawn to a statement made in the preliminary communication on this subject .
Since then a wide study of hsem-agglutinins in normal blood has been made .
It has now been proved that although a certain sample of normal serum may fail to react with one or two specimens of washed normal red cells , yet , if sufficient examples of normal red blood cells are presented to that specimen of normal serum , agglutination will be found to occur in a certain proportion of instances , while some samples of normal serum agglutinate most specimens of normal red cells presented to them .
With our wider knowledge we can state that auto-agglutination does not occur , and that the haemolytic agglutinins have not met with , that type of agglutination which is of such interest in typhoid and certain other infections .
These results are important because they compel one to realise that the demonstration of lnem-agglutination is not necessarily a reaction of pathological significance .
Auto-agglutination .
A negro from the West Indies , who had not been out of England for over ten years , showed a blood possessing remarkable properties .
He was .considered to be a case of tertiary hepatic syphilis .
When blood escaped from his tissues from a single puncture , the red cells could be seen to be clumped in the plasma , and when the bleeding was continued into citrated saline the red cells fell to the bottom of the tube in enormous clumps .
This is the only instance met with of a blood showing spontaneous agglutination , and auto-agglutination of such a high degree .
In the preliminary communication , attention was called to the condition of the blood in a case of long standing epilepsy : here well-marked auto-agglutination was present , but not spontaneous agglutination , and the degree of agglutination was nothing like to the same extent as was obtained with the blood of the negro .
On the addition of the immune serum to normal red cells a high degree of agglutination occurred , and it was the true haemolytic type .
It had previously been shown that if an immune serum is diluted with normal saline , it rapidly loses its power of agglutinating red cells , quite out of proportion to what is observed in the case of the bacterial agglutinins .
This sample of immune serum , however , clumped normal red cells when diluted to the extent of 1 in 10 almost as well as the undiluted serum , and some clumping occurred in a dilution of 1 in 500 .
This is the only instance out of the whole series of sera which have been examined in which such a phenomenon was noted .
When the negro 's blood was examined about 1909 .
] Hcem-agglutinins , , in the Blood .
a month later , neither spontaneous nor auto-agglutination was present , and normal serum failed to react with these cells , while when the immune serum and normal red cells were mixed haemolytic agglutination occurred as before .
Typhoid Fever.\#151 ; Auto-agglutination was never found to occur .
The iso-agglutinins are of great interest .
In every instance marked agglutination of red cells occurred when either the immune cells were added to normal serum or normal cells to immune serum .
In a certain number of experiments both phenomena occurred .
The fact that there was absence of agglutination when immune serum was added to normal red cells , although the serum clumped typhoid bacilli , can readily be explained by the absence of any relationship between bacterial and haem-agglutinins .
It was especially in these experiments that the haemolytic agglutinins were noted after serum and red cells had been in contact for one hour at 37 ' C. Attempts were made to extract " hypothetical agglutinins " from the red blood corpuscles in those diseases in which a marked reaction took place between the immune red cells and normal serum , but without success .
The red cells were powdered in a mortar with finely broken glass , and the mixture centrifuged at high speed .
The fluid resulting from this procedure was added to suitable red cells , but in no instance did agglutination occur .
Other methods with a similar object in view were found to be equally futile .
Specific Agglutinins .
A considerable amount of further work has been completed to emphasise the specificity of the haem-agglutinins .
The same technique has been adopted , except that it has been shown that it is unnecessary to incubate the active mixtures of red cells and serum for several hours as on previous occasions .
Two or three hours has since proved to be sufficient , while it has been shown that a considerable degree of this special reaction can be removed when the active red cells and serum are mixed well together for or three minutes , not incubated , but immediately centrifuged , and the resulting fluid tested in the usual manner .
It was found that although slight agglutination with the clear fiuid and suitable red cells could be demonstrated , yet the greater proportion of it had been removed .
This experiment will serve to show the effect of a temperature of ^7 ' C. for one and a quarter hours on the specific agglutinins .
Immune Serum ( Typhoid ) + Normal red cells .
Extreme degree of agglutination present .
VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; B. Mr. L. S. Dudgeon .
On Presence of [ Feb. 18 , Same serum saturated with same undiluted normal red cells for one and .a quarter hours at 37 ' C. ; mixture centrifuged .
Clear fluid + Normal red cells .
No agglutination .
When the immune typhoid serum was saturated with the typhoid red cells in a similar manner to the above , the clear fluid agglutinated normal red cells as before .
It must be pointed out here that although saturation of a serum with suitable red cells will render the serum specifically inactive , and that saturation with inactive red cells will have no effect , yet , if the serum is capable of agglutinating the active red cells from two different diseases , saturation with one class of red cell may fail to render the serum inactive for the other red cells .
Further work is being done on this important point at the present time .
The Effect of Saturating an Immune Serum Melanin .
It has been shown conclusively in this paper that if you saturate typhoid serum with suitable red cells you remove the haem-agglutinins , but leave the bacterial , and vice versa .
Other experiments were undertaken for the purpose of ascertaining whether it would be possible to remove or greatly diminish the haem- or bacterial-agglutinative action of the serum by means of melanin as Mr. Shattock and I have found to occur in experiments on phagocytosis.* Immune serum ( typhoid ) was saturated with sterile melanin for 12 hours at 37 ' C. The resulting fluid obtained after eentrifugalisation was still capable of agglutinating typhoid bacilli and suitable red cells as the unsaturated serum , and also to the same degree .
The Effect of Saturating a Serum Heated Bed Cells .
In the experiments about to be referred to , it has been shown that it is possible to remove the agglutinative properties of a serum by saturating it with heated red cells .
The red cells for this purpose are thoroughly washed in the usual manner , and definite proportions from the deposit of red cells obtained at the end of the final process of centrifugalisation are puc in suitable tubes with a small quantity of physiological salt solution ; the tubes are sealed , placed h1 a tube of water at a definite temperature , and then put into a water bath at the same temperature as the tube of water .
By this means , and this * S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , 1908 , " Observations on Phagocytosis by means of Melanin and the Comparison of the Opsonic Index with the Hamm-phagocytic Index .
" o Table to illustrate certain Specific Agglutinative Properties of Immune Serum from a Case of Typhoid Fever .
1 .
2- 3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
Simple bacterial agglutination .
Eesults ( typhoid serum and typhoid bacilli)\#151 ; Haem-agglutination .
Results ( typhoid serum and normal red cells)\#151 ; Test 1 repeated subsequent to the saturation of the immune serum with normal red cells for li hours at 57 ' C. Test 2 repeated subsequent to the saturation of the immune serum with typhoid bacilli for li hours at 37 ' C. Test 2 repeated subsequent to the saturation of the immune serum with normal red cells .
Test 1 repeated subsequent to the saturation of the immune serum with typhoid bacilli .
Dil .
1/ 20 , very marked reaction .
Dil .
1/ 100 , ditto .
Dil .
1/ 500 , slight reaction .
Dil .
1/ 1000 , very slight reaction .
One volume of serum and one volume of a 5-per-cent , suspension of washed red cells in normal saline .
Red cells agglutinated in enormous clumps .
Dil .
1/ 20 , very marked reaction .
Dil .
1/ 100 , ditto .
Dil .
1/ 500 , slight reaction .
Dil .
1/ 1000 , very slight reaction .
Red cells agglutinated in enormous clumps .
No agglutination occurred .
No agglutination occurred .
All tubes incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. in a water bath in the horizontal position , then all night in the perpendicular , at room !
temperature .
All tubes incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. and then examined .
\#163 ; \gt ; The typhoid bacilli employed in these tests were killed by exposure to 60 ' C. for 1 hour .
to \lt ; ^1 S S \lt ; S\gt ; .
, in the Blood .
215 Mr. L. S. Dudgeon .
Presence of [ Feb. 18 , only , is it possible for the cells to reach the temperature indicated by the thermometer .
We know that it is stated that if a serum is heated to 65 ' C. , it loses certain properties which the unheated serum possesses ; as a matter of fact , if human serum is kept at the temperature of 65 ' C. for 15 minutes in the manner indicated , it is rendered useless for serum investigation owing to the fact that it is coagulated .
In the experiment about to be referred to , certain immune red cells were heated at 60 ' C. in the manner indicated for 50 minutes , and at the end of that time formed a thick dark mass .
Pneumonic serum and these red cells gave a high degree of agglutination before saturation , but after the serum had been saturated with the heated red celis for one and a quarter hours at 37 ' C. , it was rendered inactive .
This shows that , although the red cells were physically so altered , yet they still possessed a specific function .
Similar results were obtained in another series of experiments in which the red cells were heated to 60 ' C. for one hour .
The Relation of the Bacterial and Several series of experiments have been completed , and the results clearly demonstrate that the bacterial and haem-agglutinins are distinct .
Typhoid serum , especially a serum possessing high agglutinative properties , is .
especially suitable for the purpose .
As will be seen from the accompanying table , the highest degree of specificity exists , and every experiment gave similar results .
The saturation experiments were carried out in every detail in an identical manner .
Phagocytosis .
In summarising the technique and the results of the experiments on phagocytosis in my preliminary paper , it was stated that " It is unnecessary to refer at great length to the very large number of experiments made , as it was only in a few instances that phagocytosis was pronounced .
In quite a number of instances , whether the serum was unheated , or diluted , or heated , or whether normal or immune leucocytes were employed , the degree of phagocytosis was infinitesimal .
" There was only one instance out of the total number investigated in which the phagocytosis of red blood corpuscles was a conspicuous feature .
In the present communication striking instances of red cell phagocytosis have been recorded on several occasions , these different results mainly depending upon the nature of the diseases which are now being investigated .
It is especially marked in such acute diseases as typhoid fever , while in pernicious anaemia , where it might be expected to occur , it is Haem-agglutinins , etc. , Blood .
1909 .
] usually absent .
Care must always be exercised in arriving at conclusions on this subject , because , unless the film preparations are made with special precautions , red cells which are apparently engulfed are really extra-cellular , and also , if the hsemolysins are active in the samples of serum employed , the red cells which are engulfed may be either pale or difficult to recognise , and , therefore , phagocytosis may be unknown .
In a case of typhoid fever with typhoid pyuria a high degree of phagocytosis was noted .
Normal leucocytes + immune red cells + normal serum showed no less than 37 red cells engulfed by 50 leucocytes , while when the normal serum was diluted with immune serum the phagocytosis was correspondingly reduced .
In this instance normal serum caused marked agglutination of immune red cells and also hsemolysed them ; in another case of typhoid the phagocytic test carried out in an identical manner showed 26 red cells engulfed by 50 leucocytes , the normal serum in this case also hsemolysed and agglutinated the immune red cells , while in a still further example the immune serum -1- normal red cells and immune leucocytes gave an active result\#151 ; 50 leucocytes contained 39 red cells ; when normal serum was added to the immune red cells the phagocytosis was well marked , but very much less so ; here also the immune serum strongly agglutinated normal red cells , but did not haemolyse them .
In certain other instances of typhoid infection some degree of phagocytosis was noted , but only of an indifferent type .
In the case of paroxysmal hsemo-globinuria the immune red cells in the presence of normal serum and normal leucocytes showed a high degree of phagocytosis , 50 leucocytes contained 39 red cells .
Experiments conducted with other variations in the cells and serum gave negative results .
The normal serum in these experiments , hsemolysed , agglutinated and incited phagocytosis of the immune red cells , but in different degrees , the most marked results occurring in the agglutination experiments , the least striking were in the haemolytic .
In a case of untreated secondary syphilis , experimental results showed absence of haemolysis and agglutination , but complemented immune serum incited a high degree of phagocytosis of the immune red cells .
Perhaps the most striking example of phagocytosis of the red blood corpuscles occurred when the serum from a case of epilepsy was added to normal red cells in the presence of normal leucocytes , 50 white cells contained 46 red blood corpuscles .
The immune serum also strongly agglutinated these cells .
Many more examples of this variety of phagocytosis have occurred in the numerous experiments which have been made , but the most interesting and striking results are those which I have recorded .
All instances in which haemolysis occurs when the red cells and serum interact must tend to limit the accuracy of the phagocytic experiments , 218 On the Presence of Ham-agglutinins , etc. , in Blood .
because so many red cells which have been engulfed by the leucocytes are# ghosts and , no doubt , have been too severely htemolysed to be recognisable .
In the concluding remarks in the preliminary paper on hsem-opsonins , it was stated that " The experiments referred to in this communication entirely agree withi the observations of Barratt and Keith , conducted with the blood sera and cells from the lower animals .
There was nothing to show that the agglutination , opsonic , or hsemolysing properties of normal or immune sera on red blood corpuscles have any direct relation to one another .
" From the investigations which have been made for this report , some of which have been referred to , it has been noted that a serum may hsemolyse , agglutinate , and incite phagocytosis of certain red cells , but although it may be capable of agglutinating and hsemolysing certain red cells , yet the degree of phagocytosis which is present may be negligible , or phagocytosis may be present without the other phenomena ; on the other hand , a serum which lias a high agglutinative value is more likely to give a somewhat similar incitor reaction than otherwise , although not necessarily .
I have again to thank Mr. H. A. F. Wilson for his invaluable assistance , and also Dr. Atliole Ross and Mr. Irvine , all co-workers in my laboratories .

