II .
" On Pyrophosphoric Acid with the Pyroand Tetra-phosphoric Amides .
" By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 9 , 1867 .
From time to time I have communicated to the Chemical Society descriptions of certain bodies which are best viewed as amides of pyrophosphoric acid ; and in pursuing the inquiry I have recently obtained some fresh results , and a new class of compounds .
I propose continuing to send the details to the Chemical Society , but I may be permitted to submit to the Royal Society a condensed account of the main facts arrived at in the whole investigation , and a theory of the formation of these substances .
PyrophiospJhoric acid is , in the notation now generally adopted , P,2 11 0 , .
1n an examination of its ferric compounds , I found evidence of the existence , in solution , of the double salt P Na2 fe2 O7* A more remarkable fact is that the complete ferric salt , and several other pyrophosphates , can exisu in an allotropic condition .
Thus pure PI fe , 0 , , prepared by double decomposition , dissolves readily in dilute sulphuric acid ; but on heating the solution it separates in a form which is almost insoluble in the acid .
When these allotropic salts are decomposed , the acid produced appears to have the ordinary properties .
It is a pyrophospiate wincw h is formed , wAhen oxychloride of phosphorus is attacked by a strong aqueous solution of an alkali .
Pyrophosphoric acid exhibits a great tendency to form acid amnides .
It is only necessary to neutralize it with ammonia to get a body which , when treated with a metallic salt not in excess , gives more or less of a pyropiosphli amte of ' the metal , thus:-P2 H 07 , +4NH-3 fe C=P , ( N12)f e , ,+H-10 0+3NII C1 .
Pyrophosph ?
Jzaic acid , P2 ( NXH2 ) HI O0 , may be also prepared by breaking down the higher amlides .
It is similar in most of its properties to pyrophosphoric acid , but is tribasic .
Its ferric salt has also an allotropic modification ; when heated with lan acid it becomes far less soluble in sulphuric acid , ferric chloride , or pyrophosphate of sodium .
JPyrophowspo-diamiic acid , P9 ( NHI ) , HP 0 0 , is produced in a variety of f In order to avoid great complexity of forrmulme , VWiliamsoi 's Fricuam , fef18'(6 , heas been a.dopted .
510 ways , of which the most noteworthy are the action of ammonia on phosphoric anhydride , of ammonia and water on oxychloride of phosphorus , of alcohol or soluble bases on chlorophosphuret of nitrogen , as well as the breaking down of amides of more complicated structure .
It is bibasic , and forms salts which are generally very soluble , like itself , in water and alcohol .
Pyro2pkosiJho-triamic acid , P3 ( NIH2 ) HO , , is formed when oxychloride of phosphorus is saturated with ammonia at about 100 ?
C. , and the resulting mass is treated with water , or when tetraphospho-pentazotic acid is exposed to the action of water for some time .
It is nearly insoluble in water , and so are its combinations , even those with the alkaline metals .
It readily decomposes most soluble salts , giving rise to compounds in which 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4 atoms of hydrogen are replaced .
With slightly acid nitrate of silver it gives a white salt , P2 ( NHl)3 Ag O , ; with the ammoniacal nitrate a bright yellow salt , P2 N3 HI4 Ag3 04 .
By the action of water on the compounds of ammonia with oxychloride of phosphorus , there are also produced some acid amides that belong to a higher series .
Great difficulty was experienced in being certain of the purity of any specimen of these compounds ; hence some doubt may still rest on their ultimate composition .
Tetrcaphosp7io-tetramic acid , P , ( NHI 2 ) H2 0 , , is a solid stable body , insoluble in alcohol , but soluble , in water , and combining readily with bases , the amount of hydrogen replaced appearing to vary from 1 to 6 atoms .
Terammoniated Tetrcap1tosp3o-diamic acid,.P ( NHI2 ) N3a H13 011.-This is a viscid liquid , insoluble in alcohol , but very soluble in water .
It forms a liquid combination with ammonia ; but metallic salts appear to break it up into a variety of compounds .
By the action of heat , boiling water , strong acids , or alkaline carbonates , tetraphospho-tetramic acid may be produced from it .
Among the bodies formed when it is heated per se is a white substance , insoluble , or nearly so , in cold water , having the ultimate composition PNIH 03 .
This is at once transformed into pyrophospho-diamic acid by hot water , or dilute acids .
'Tetracphospho-pentazotic acid , P4 N , .
I11 07 , is formed when oxychloride of phosphorus is fully saturated with ammonia , and the resulting mass is heated at about 230 ?
C. , and washed with cold water .
It is an insoluble body , capable of decomposing metallic salts .
One atom of hydrogen is replaceable by potassium or ammolnium .
When treated with slightly acidulated nitrate of silver , it gives a tetrazotic salt , P4 4N H4 Az2 0 , , which , when decomposed by mineral acids , yields tetraphospho-tetramic acid and other compounds .
Amindated Oxychlorides of Ph7osplorus.--The oxychloride will absorb either 2 or 4 molecules of ammonia ; and there can be little doubt that the resulting white solids consist of chloride of ammonium mixed with P ( N , ) C01 0 in the one case , and P ( NH , )2 Cl 0 in the other , but I bhve never succeceded in seiSarating t1hem in a condit1n fit for analysis .
511 If either of these compounds be strongly heated , hydcroclloric acid , or chloride of ammonium , is given oJfi , and there relmains phospi/ onitryle , PNO .
By the action of heat on the substances already d(escribed , other conmpounds may also be prepared , thus : Pyrophospho-nit ylic acid.--If pyrophospho-triamnate of potassium be heated at a dull redness , it loses two-thirds of its nitrogen as ammonia , leaving a fused mass , which is insoluble in water , but forms compounds when treated with silver or copper salts .
These have the composition of pyrophospho-nitrylates , P2 N Ag O. If pyrophospho-triamic acid itself be similarly heated , it parts with one molecule of ammonia , and gives a body , P , Na , H1 0O , isomeri c with pyrophospho-nitrylate of ammonium , which is speedily resolved by damp air into pyrophosphamic acid and other compounds .
The process adopted for the analysis of these acid amides was that of boiling them with strong hydrochloric acid .
This converts them all into ammonia and ordinary phosphoric acid , which were determinied in the usual manner .
27ieoretical Constiituion .
A dificulty in understlanding the formation of the bodies above described from oxychloride of phosphorus arises fifrom the fact , that they contain P. .
or P ... , while the original phosphorus compournd contains but one atom of that element .
The followi ' g considerations may furnish a probable explanation and reveal their true constitution .
When a chloride and water act on one another , three different courses are open , each giving hydrochloric acid as one of the results .
In the first case the chlorine combines with one of the atoms of hydrogen , while the remaining hydroxyl , HO , takes its place in the original conmpound , thus : P C13 +3 H1 0=3 H C1+ P H11 03 ( p)hosp ?
horous acid ) .
In the second case twro atoms of chlorine simultaneously attack the two atoms of hydrogen , and the liberated sihngle atom of oxygen takes their place , thus : P C1 +i O= 2-C1 P C13 ( oePC71horide of p10os2p , ors ) .
In each of these ease s wne ]ma1 consider the new compound as formed on the same type as the original chloride , only the chlorine is differently replaced .
1 11 O0 In the one case P Cl becomes P 1I 0 , Cl 110 C1 I{ 011 C01 and in the other P C1 becomes P C10 .
C ] 1 Cl B1ut there is a thirdI case in which the two atoms of hydrogen in water are attacked sinmultaneously by two ai ; oms of the chloride , and the result is that the oxygen is left in combination with two molecules of the substance originally combined with the chlorine .
I-ere it is simplest to consider that it is the water type which is preserved .
It is this third mode of action which explains the production of the compounds containing P , ... and P4 ... .
If we act on oxychloride of phosphorus with water , a slow replacement of the chlorine takes place , each atomi decomposing a molecule of water , and the result isP C10+3t } 0=311 C+1PH 0O , C1 11 .
0 which is P 113 0 , , tribasic or ort7io-phos2pwric acid .
If , however , we employ strong solutions of potash or ammonia , the result is totally different .
AWe nowY obtain salts of an acid formed not on the type of the oxychloride , but on the type of the alkaline hydrate , or water .
To explain this the reaction must be broken up into two stages , though it is not improbable that these may occur simultaneously in nature .
These stages are2PC2130+ ( }01 O KC C+ PCI o+K 0= + Ci +P H( , 0)2 0 , PI 0 o ? ?
4I }o- ?
Cl } jo , which is P2 111H 0 , pie rop7LosJhoioric acid .
There still remains another mode of action , th]e replacement of 2 Cl in the oxychloride by 0 , and this may be expressed in the two following stages , P e13 0+2 I 0=2K Cl+P C1 0 O , PC10 0+ -t .
} KO Cl+P ( C. 0 ) 0 0 , which is PK 03 , metlop'iospJiafc of potassium , ? .
And this is actuaylly produced when the oxychloride is dropped on oxide of potassium , and a similar reaction takes place with dry sesquicarbonlate of ammonium .
t2 ( H 0)~ ( ) }0 be its ati)2 onal reverting to pyrophosphoric acid , if ' .
b its rationaal formul-a , it is easy enough to understa-nd that amides are readily formed , and to see how upon neutralizing it with a.lmm-onia , one molecule of 10 is apt to be replaced by N II , , giving ( N ) ( N i , 0 ) 0 ) 0 , the pyrophosphamate , instead of PN 0 ) 0 0 , the pyrophosate P ( N HI , 0 ) .
0p of ammnon.it : , m. Nor i it difficult to under-tand the formation of pyrophosphodiafmic 513 acid , when we start not with the oxychloride , but with the amidated oxychloride of phosphorus .
The two stages , analogous to those given above for the formation of pyrophosphoric acid , will be 2P(NH)C0+ 0=211 +p ( H2 ) C1 0+ P(NIH2 ) C1 O +2H 0=2I C1+ P ( N H2 ) ( O ) O0 P ( N H1 ) 10 1J HJ ( N I ) ( H O)O which is P2 ( N H2 ) HI2 05 , pyrophlospho-diamic acid .
The symmetry of this reaction would be lost were pyrophosphamic acid produced , and , indeed , it seems never to occur among the substances actually formed .
But the pyro-diamic acid may be equally produced , if we start with the higher amidated oxychloride formed at a low temperature .
In this case it is necessary to suppose that while two molecules of the phosphorus compound attack one molecule of water , two other molecules of water give rise to the usual replacement of H0 for N H1 .
The two stages are precisely analogous to those given above , but are probably simultaneous , the reaction being favoured by the affinity of the hydro .
chloric acid for the ammonia , 2P ( N H2)2C10 + r } } =21 C1 +P ( N 2)2 } 0 , P ( N ( ~ ?
H -I ) ?
} , P ( N12)20 2 O ?
T}0=2NlH ?
P(N H2 ) ( T 0)0 0P ( N 2)20 o ?
} ( N II2 ) ( H 0 ) which , as before , is P2 ( N H2)2 2 H , , pyroptospho-diamic acid .
The formation of pyrophospho-triamic acid is dependent on some alteration in the amidated oxychloride , when produced at a high temperature .
As the nature of this change is unknown , it may be better not to speculate on the intermediate stages , but the result of the action on water would seem to be p ( N 12 ) ( T0 ) 0 ?
} , or P ( N H ) H 04 .
P ( N 12)20 2 If this be the true explanation of the manner in which the pyrophosphoric amides are formed , it will equally explain the formation of the tetraphosphoric compounds .
It does not follow that when two molecules of the amidated oxychloride have attacked one of water to form P ( N 12 ) Cl 0 ) ( N 12 ) C1 } 0 , that is ?
P2 ( N12)2 Cl2 03 ?
, the remaining chlorine should be replaced by H 0 .
The process of attacking both atoms of hydrogen in water may be repeated , thus2P , ( N H , ) , 0C1,0 } 0=2H 0+ P , ( N H2)2 Cl } which , when acted on by water in the usual way , gives pA ( N H1 ) C10l o01 2H10 2C1+ P ( N Hs ) , ( H o ) oj 0 P2 ( N H , ) , 1 01 , it P2 ( N B1i ( i 1 0 ) 0 , which is P ( N TH ) , I , 0 , 0 et1raphosp7lo-ttcramic ici(d .
And this compound , like the pyro-diamic acid , may be prepared from the higher amidated oxychloride , and the process is capable of the same explanation .
The three stages , probably simultaneous , are as follows:2P ( NH2 ) CIO+ O ?
0=2H Cl+P(0 + H ) or P ( NH O3 2P(NH2)C10+ } 1}H ? ?
2N(NH()2O 2 2P , ( NHI ) , O3+ H }o-2NH +P2(N } OH 3 a}O 2PPN ( N H2)0 0+ P2 ( NH2)3 0 +N H P , ( N H2)2 ( H 0 ) 03 P2 ( N H2)3 O OH T 2N P +(N 2 ) ( H 0)o 3 Jo which is P4 ( N H , )4 H2 , 0 , tetraphospho-tetramic acid .
The tetraphosphoric acid , of which this is the fourth amide , must be P4 H O13 , a substance already known , at least in its salts , for it is Fleitmann and Henneberg 's phosphoric acid .
On the view given above the rational formule of the four phosphoric acids may be thus expressed : Ortho-phosphoric acid ... ... ... P ( H 0)3 0 .
Meta-phosphoric acid ... ... ... { PH 0 .
Pyro-phosphoric acid ... ... ... P( 0 O ?
P ( H 0)0 P(H O)20 P(HO ) ) J It is more difficult to assign satisfactory rational formulae to the two compounds containing P4 N ... .
The fact that the atoms of nitrogen are uneven in number destroys the symmetry , and seems to point to their being products of decomposition of substances containing P4 NG ... .
That they both belong to the tetraphosphoric series is evidenced by their giving rise easily to tetraphospho-tetramic acid .
The reactions of the liquid P4 N H111 , 0 indicate that it is an acid ammonium salt , or is readily transformable into such .
Hence I have called it terammoniated tetraphospho-diamic acid , and its formula will be P ( N( N 11 H ) ) o(N 0)0 P ( NH4O0 ) O0P ( N 1)1 3 ) )(11 0 , or P4 ( N 12)3 ( N )3 E ?
110 .
P/ ( NH40)OJ ?
The formation of a tetraphospho-tetramate from a salt of this structure would be analogous to the ready passage of pyrophosphate of ammonium into a pyrophosphamate .
The acid P , N1 H9 07 , to which has been given the provisional name tetraphlospho-pentazotic acid , is perhaps derived from the decomposition of tetraphospho-hexamide , P4 ( N H1 )6 07 , which is the complete amide of tetraphosphoric acid , and is a very likely substance to be formed by 515 the action of water on P ( N '11i ) C10 that had been exposed to heat , and probably converted into P.2 ( N H1 ) , C12 02 .
If this hexamide really exist , it is at once broken down by the freed hydrochloric acid , or by hydrate of potassium , thusP , ( N H , ) , 1 + ?
ClN 1 , C1t+ P , N , H9 0 , , giving rise naturally to a monobasic acid .
If we regard the compound resulting from the action of nitrate of silver on this acid as containing imidogen N H , instead of amidogen NH.2 , it gives a formula of great symmetry of structureP(NHI ) AgO } , or P , , ( N II ) , AP ( NH ) OJ and the salt would bear the name e of tetposotem ofsilver .

