A Relation Of a kind of Worms , that eat out Stones .
This is taken out of a Letter , written by one M. de la Voye to M. Auzeut , to be found in the 32 .
Journal des Soavans ; as follows .
IN a great and very ancient Wall of Free-Stone in the Benedictins Abby at Caen in Normandy , facing Southward , there are to be found many Stones so eaten by Worms , that one may run his hand into most of the Cavities ; which are variously fashioned , like the Stones , which I have seen wrought with so much Art in the Louvre : In these cavities there is abundance of liveWorms , their excrement , and of that Stone-dust , they eat .
Between many of the Cavities there remain but leaves , as it were , of Stone , very thin , which part them .
I have taken some of these living Worms , which I found in the eaten Stone , and put them into a Box with several bits of the Stone , leaving them there together for the space of eight days ; and then opening the Box , the Stone seemed to me eaten so sensibly , that I could no longer doubt of it .
I send you the Box and the Stones in it , together with the living Worms ; and to satisfy your Curiosity , I shall relate to you , what I have observed of them , both with and without a Microscope .
These Worms are enclosed in a Shell , which is grayish , and of the bigness of a Barly-corn , sharper at one end , than the other .
By the means of an excellent Microscope I have observed , that it is all overspread with little Stones , and little greenish Eggs ; and that there is at the sharpest end a little hole , by which these Creatures cast out their excrement , and at the other end , a somewhat bigger whole , through which they put out their heads , and fasten themselves to the Stones , they gnaw .
They are not so shut up , but that sometimes they come out , and walk aborad .
They are all black , about two Lines of an Inch long , and three quarters of a Line large .
Their Body is distinguish't into several plies , and near their head they have three feet on each side , which have but two Joints , resembling those of a Louse .
When they move , their Body is commonly upwards , with their mouth against the Stone .
They have a big head , somewhat flat , and even , of the colour of a Tortoise-Shell , braunish , with some small white hair , Their mouth is also big ; where may be seen four kinds of Jaw-bones , lying crossewise , which they move continually , opening and shutting them like a pair of Compasses with four branches .
The Jaws on both sides of the month are all black ; the nether-Jaw hath a point like the Sting of a Bee , but uniform , They draw threads out of their mouth with their fore-feet , using that point to range them , and to form their Shells of them .
They have Ten Eyes , very black and round , which appear to be bigger than a Pins-head .
There are five of them on each side of the head , standing after this manner But besides these Worms , I have found ; that Mortar is eaten by an infinite number of small Creatures , of the bigness of Cheese-Mites .
These have but two Eyes , and are blackish .
They have four feet on each side pretty long .
The point of their Muzzel is very sharp , as that of a Spider .
I send you but one of them , though I had abundance , but they are dead and lost .
It may be , you 'll find some at Paris , seeing that in the old Mortar betwixt Stones , that is found in Walls made with rubbish , there is great store of them , together with great plenty of their little Eggs .
I have not yet examined , whether these be those , that in the surfaces of all the Stones , where they are met with , make little round holes , and small traces and impressions , which make them look like Worm-eaten Wood .
But it is probable , they are such .
It should be observed , whether these Worms do not take Wings , and all the other appearances of Cater-pillars : and whether they are not to be found in Plaister , that is full of holes , in Bricks , in Greety Stones , and in Rocks .
You may observe more of them in Walls exposed to the South , than in others ; and that the Worms , that eat the Stone , live longer , than those , that eat the Mortar , which keep not above eight days alive .
I have observed all their parts with a very good Microscope , without which , and a great deal of attention , it is difficult to see them well .
I have seen other very old Walls altogether eaten , as those of the Temple at Paris , where I could find no Worms , but the Cavities were full of Shells of various kinds , diversely figured and turned : all which I believe to be little

