1886 .
] On converting Heat Energy into Electrical Energy .
345 100 ' C. ; for most hard drawn wire , however , the temperature of minimum internal friction is below 0 ' 0 .
( / .
) The temporary change , whether o\#163 ; the nature of increase or decrease , wrought by alteration of temperature in the internal friction of metals , is in most cases enormously greater than the corresponding change in the torsional elasticity .
IV .
" On a New Means of Converting Heat Energy into Electrical Energy .
" By Williard E. Case , of Auburn , New York , U.S.A. Communicated by W. H. Preece , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1886 .
It was shown by M. Henri Loewel ( see " The Chemist , " Part VIII , p. 476 ) that the addition of a solution of chromous chloride to stannous chloride caused a precipitate of metallic tin , the reaction forming chromic chloride .
On heating the solution to the boiling point , 212 ' F. , it was found the precipitated metal was in a great measure redissolved , forming the original solution , chromous chloride and stannous chloride , without the liberation of hydrogen .
On cooling this solution the tin was again precipitated , the action continuing as often as the solution was heated and cooled .
As chromous chloride has a great affinity for oxygen , it is necessary the air should be excluded from the solution , otherwise the chromous chloride would be reduced to oxychloride of chrome , as Loewel states , and the reactions would cease to take place after a time , the stannous chloride formed during each heating remaining in solution .
I constructed , in the form of a simple galvanic cell , a small element with this solution , chromic chloride , * as the electrolyte , using tin as the positive , and platinum as the negative metal .
At 60 ' F. this element gives no electromotive force , although in this case , when the ceil was first set up , it gave 0'0048 volt , owing probably to the presence of some foreign substance .
On the elevation of its temperature by the application of heat , the electromotive force rose and fell , as indicated in the diagram ; the curves A , B , C , D , E , represent its increase during the rising temperature , and the curves F , G , H , I , J , its fall while cooling .
The irregularity of the curves A , B , C , D , E , was probably due to unequal heating .
At the termination of the experiment , when the cell had cooled down to 60 ' F. , no electromotive force was observed , as indicated on * The solution used was made by combining chromium trioxide with hydrochloric acid , and heating .
346 On converting Heat Energy into Electrical Energy .
[ May 6 , the diagram , of which the absciss\#174 ; are proportional to the electromotive forces , the ordinates to the temperatures Fahrenheit .
The highest electromotive force was 0-2607 volt at 197 ' F. , the highest degree to which the temperature was raised .
If the platinum be replaced by a negative electrode of carbon , the electromotive force will be higher .
It may be of interest to mention that the action of this element during heating is entirely different from that of the galvanic battery during a similar elevation of its temperature .
1886 .
] On the Sun-spot Spectra Observations at Kensington .
347 W. H. Preece , Esq. , F.R.S. ( see " The Effects of Temperature on the Electromotive Force and Resistance of Batteries , ' " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 36 , p. 48 ) , states " that changes of temperalnre do not practically affect electromotive forces , hut that they materially affect the internal resistance of cells .
" When the temperature of this element was lowered to about 145 ' F. , the reactions before mentioned took place .
The tin taken up by the solution during heating commenced to precipitate , increasing as the temperature lowered , and the metal fell to the bottom of the cell in a form to be again utilised in the generation of the current .
The amount of local action or chemical corrosion which took place above 150 ' F. was excessive , but the metal taken up by the solution was very much less when the temperature of the electrolyte was not raised above the point of precipitation , 140 ' F. The metal taken up below this point appears to be precipitated under the same conditions as that taken up at higher temperature , and seems to be precipitated whether the circuit be open or closed .
It will be seen on the curves F , G , H , I , J , with falling temperature that the electromotive force increased between 150'|F .
and 140 ' F. , this might have been due to the reactions which took place during the precipitation of the metal .
Further investigations to determine the efficiency of this element would be of interest .
Y. " Further Discussion of the Sun-spot Spectra Observations made at Kensington .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Communicated to the Royal Society by the Solar Physics Committee .
Received May 5 , 1886 .
I have recently discussed , in a preliminary manner , the lines of several of the chemical elements most widened in the 700 spots observed at Kensington .
The period of observation commences November , 1879 , and extends to August , 1885 .
It includes , therefore , the sun-spot curve from a minimum to a maximum and some distance beyond .
It is perhaps desirable that I should here state the way in which the observations have been made .
The work , which has been chiefly done by Messrs. Lawrance and Greening , simply consists of a survey of the two regions F\#151 ; b and b\#151 ; D. The most widened line in each region\#151 ; not the widest line , but the most widened , is first noted ; its wave-length being given in the observation books from Angstrom 's map .
Next , the lines which

