V. An Account of an extraordinary Effect of the Cholick : communicated to the Royal Society , by that curious Anatomist Mr. St. Andre , and read March 21 .
1717 .
THE Peristaltick Motion of the Intestins is by all Anatomists supposed the proper Motion of those Cylindrical Tubes .
The use of this Motion is to propel the Chyle into the vasa lactea , and to accelerate the grosser Parts of the Aliment downwards , in order to expel them , when all their nutritive Contents are extracted .
This Motion thus established , it naturally seems to follow that an Inversion of it ( called for that Reason an Antiperistaltick Motion ) shou 'd force the Aliments , Bile , pancreatic Juice , and lastly the Faeces to ascend towards the Mouth .
The Cause of this imaginary Antivermicular Motion , is assigned to a Stoppage of the Intestin , or to a great length of it being engaged in the same manner as the Fingers of a Glove are choked by inverting the Glove in drawing it off : Or like as a Silk-Stocking , which when it is not gartered , falls upon the Foot , and is in a manner strangled , so that some Force is required to bring it up again .
This supposed , the Antiperistaltick Hypothesis seems at first Sight very natural , and answers most Difficulties .
For if the Vermicular Motion accelerates the Contents of the Intestins downwards ; the Antivermicular , by the Law of Contraries , should force them upwards towards the Mouth .
Was this Supposition as certain as it is generally received , I shou 'd not presume to advance that there is no such thing as an Antiperistaltick Motion of the Intestins ; nor that the Miserere mei is oftner a violent Contraction of the Abdominal Muscles , than a Stoppage or Inversion of the Intestins , as it is supposed .
So laying aside all Prevention , let it be granted that this Disease is a violent Contraction of the Abdominal Muscles , as I have already supposed it , caus 'd by the Redundancy of the Intestins or their Contents .
Then comparing the Symptoms of this Disease , with those of the different Kinds of Hernias , we shall find by the Analogy of the Parts , Reason and repeated Experience , that the Chordapsus , so called by Celsus , is a Disease in which the Intestins and Omentum ; at other Times the Pancreas or Spleen ; nay , even the Mesentery it self are forced through the Diaphragma into the Thorax .
All these tender Parts being strongly compressed , by the continual Motion of this Muscle , must by consequence cause the same Accidents as in the Bubonocele or complete Hernia , there being no difference in these two Cases ; but that the first is a strangling of the Intestin by the Diaphragm , and the latter a choaking of the Intestins by the Abdominal Muscles .
One Example of the many of the like Nature , that I can produce , will much confirm this Assertion , and may serve to convince any Person that is impartial .
The Case is this : A Gentleman that came to Town yesterday was Seven-night in good Health , meeting with some Friends , drank a great deal of new bottled OatAle , after some Pints of Wine .
These Liquors fermented so violently in his Stomach and Intestins ; that he was taken with a violent Cholick the same Night .
In the morning an Apothecary was sent for , who administred a Clyster , and took some Ounces of Blood to relieve the Patient , who complained of a great Pain in his left Side .
The Clysters being repeated the Night following , as also the next Morning , and the Patient growing worse ; the Apothecary , without Order of any Physician , gave him a violent Vomit ; which operated Eight or Nine Times : This added Fewel to the Fire ; and the Patient having from that Time been in a desperate Condition , two eminent Physicians were called , who ordered that the Clysters shou 'd be repeated : But they not prevailing , I was sent for about six Hours before the Patient died : I found him complaining of a violent Pain in all the Region of the Abdomen ; a frequent Inclination to vomit ; having a great Difficulty of breathing , together with a very slow Pulse ; his Belly being as hard as a Stone , tho ' not swelled .
This last Indication made me conclude , that the Discase was a violent Contraction of the Abdominal Muscles , which had overcome the Diaphragm , and that probably the Intestins might be forced into the Thorax .
I was the more confirmed in this Opinion from the Examples of the like Case , which I shall shortly lay before the Society ; upon which I ordered a Fomentation of hot Milk , adding to every Quart a Drachm of Liquid Laudanum , which in these Maladies gives great Relief : But before it cou 'd be got ready , the Patient expired in a violent Convulsion .
My Opinion having been highly censured by the two Physicians ; I opened this Gentleman , to justify my self , or to own my Fault openly , if I had been mistaken : But as the thing happened as I conjectured , those Gentlemen will forgive me for taking the Liberty of justifying my self .
In opening this Body , I found the Abdominal Muscles so much contracted , that it was almost impossible to penetrate them with a very sharp Scalpel .
Upon Upon Examination , I found the Stomach empty , and some Parts of the Duodenum , but the Jejunum and Ilium so much distended with the fermented OatAle , that the Ilium had four Inches of Diameter , and the Colon above eight .
The Ilium was also pretty much inflamed in its inferior Part ; and all the Valves of the Colon were obliterated , by the great Distention of that Intestin .
But the greatest Disaster was , the Dilatation made in the Diaphragm , as I supposed ; made just upon the Chink which remits the intercostal Nerve to the Viscera of the Abdomen , through which a Portion of the Colon was forced , and the greatest Part of the Omentum and Pancreas .
These tender Parts being choked , soon inflamed , a Mortification of them following ; and a Rupture of the Pancreatic Vein caus 'd an internal Haemorrhage , which filled all the left Cavity of the Thorax , insomuch that the whole left lobe of the Lungs was compressed almost under the Musculus Scalenus .
The Quantity of extravas 'd Blood was very great , and it was not in the least coagulated .
I have brought the diseased Parts with me , to show the Society the Certainty of this Account , and I shou 'd have been more particular in proving the Impossibility of the Antiperistaltick Motion ; if Doctor Hagumot had not prevented me by his Memolr .
This Gentleman is not far from Truth , and what he says is certain : but I am surprised that the like Case has not occurred in his Practice .

