5 .
" On the Structure of the Membrana Tympani in the Human Ear .
" By Joseph Toynbee , F.R.S. &amp;c. &amp;c. In this paper the membrana tympani is described as consisting of the following layers , which are quite distinct from each other , both as regards their structure and functions:-* 1 .
Epidermis .
2 .
The proper fibrous layer , composed of a. The lamina of radiating fibres .
b. The lamina of circular fibres .
3 .
Mucous membrane .
One of the principal objects of the paper is to describe the structure and functions of the fibrous lamniae .
Since the time of Sir Everard Home , who pronounced the layer of radiating fibres to be muscular , anatomists have differed in their views of the nature of the fibrous element of the membrana tympani .
The lamina of radiating fibres , the outer surface of which is covered by the epidermis , is described as continuous witIh the periosteum of the external meatus .
With the exception of the uppermost fibres , which on account of their being somewhat flaccid have been considered as a separate tissue under the name of " ' membrana flaccida , " the radiate layer is composed of fibres which extend from the circular cartilaginous ring to the malleus , and they interlace in their course .
These fibres are from the 4000th to the 5000th part of an inch in breadth .
The lamina of circular fibres consists of circular fibres , which are firm and strong towards the circumference , but very attenuated towards the centre .
These fibres are so attached and arranged as to form a layer of membrane , which in a quiescent state is saucershaped .
The fibres composing the circular are smaller than those of the radiate lamina , being from the 6000th to the 10,000th part of an inch in breadth .
The facts that appear to be adverse to the idea of the fibres of either layer being muscular are1 .
The absence of distinct nuclei in the fibres .
2 .
Their great denseness and hardness .
It is next shown that the four laminae forming the membrana tympani are continuous with other structures , of which they appear to be mere modifications , and that not one is proper to the organ .
The tensor tympani ligament , which had not been previously noticed by anatomists , is particularly described ; it is attached externally to the malleus , close to the insertion of the tensor tympani muscle , and internally to the cochleariform process .
The latter part of the paper is occupied by observations on the functions of the fibrous laminwe and of the tensor ligament of the membrana tympani ; and it is shown that by these two antagonistic forces , the one tending to draw the membrana tympani inwards , the other outwards , this organ is maintained in a state of moderate tension , and is always in a condition to receive ordinary sonorous undulations .

