446 Mr. Sedley Taylor .
Note .
[ May 23 , kidney in Amphibia , and consider it only necessary to call attention to the similarity , amounting almost to identity , between our account of the metamorphosis of the anterior part of the Mullerian duct in the bird and the italicised part of our description ( taken from Fiirbringer ) of the changes in the open extremity of the segmental duct in the Amphibia , which results in the formation of the head-kidney .
In this connexion , there is only one point we desire to call attention to , and that is the presence in Amphibia of a peculiar body , usually spoken of as the glomerulus of the head-kidney , which is developed at about the same time as the head-kidney .
We believe , though we have not fully satisfied ourselves on the point , that we have found an homologous body in the chick .
In reference to the identity in the position between our head-kidney in the bird and that in Amphibia , we have only to say that one of us* has already , on other grounds , attempted to show that the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct in the bird is the homologue of the abdominal opening of the segmental duct in Amphibia , Elasmobrauchii , \amp ; c. , and that we believe that this homology will be admitted by most anatomists .
Should the interpretation we have given of the peculiarities of the abdominal opening of the Mullerian duct in birds be accepted , a further proof of this homology will be afforded .
We may say , in conclusion , that we trust soon to be in a position to publish a fuller account of our observations , with illustrations .
XI .
" Observations on Arctic Sea-water and Ice .
" By Surgeon-Major E. L. Moss , M.D. Communicated by Captain Sir George Nares , R.N. , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1878 .
[ Publication deferred .
] " Note to Mr. Sedley Taylor 's ' Experiments on the Colours shown by thin liquid Films under the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
' " ( " Proceedings , " vol. xxvii , 1878 , pp. 71 , seq. ) Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1878 .
The failure to obtain steady resultant-forms for two component sounds , mentioned at p. 74 , proved , on further inquiry , to be due to the imperfect mode of experimenting there described .
I stated this fact in a note , written upon the final revise of my paper ; but , by some inadvertence for which I am not responsible , the paper appeared without it .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day and the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 20 .
# Balfour , loc. cit.

