]\gt ; Dr. W. J. M. Rankine on Mr. Heppet 's considered as demonstrated that , for most ordinary cases of large bridges , calculations founded on equation may be confidently relied on .
It need scarcely be remarked that these much more simple and easy than those founded on the more exact but complex equations above given .
In smaller bridges , however , the error of the approximate ocess will be more considerable , and the process above given may be applied with advantage to its colrection .
In concluding this paper , the author desires to record his thanks to his young friend , Mr. Henry Reilly , for the patience and skill with which he made , in detail , all the intricate calcuIations of the numerical values of the various functions involved in the above demonstration .
" " Remarks on Mr. Heppel 's Theory of Continuous Beams By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , .D .
, F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1869* .
1 .
Condensed form of stating the Theory.\mdash ; The advantages possessed by Mr. Heppel 's method of treating the mathematical problem of the state of stress in a continuous beam will probably cause it to be used both in practice and in scientific study .
The manner in which the theory is set forth in Mr. Heppel 's paper is remarkably clear and satisfactory , especially as the several steps of the algebraical investigation correspond closely with the steps of the arithmetical calculations which will have to be performed in applying the method to practice .
Still it appears to me that , for the scientific study of the principles of the method , and for the instruction of students in engineering science , it may be desirable to have those principles expressed in a condensed form ; and with that view I have drawn up the following meant ofthem , which is virtually not a new investigation , but Mr. Heppel 's investigation abridged .
Let and be the coordinates of two adjacent points of support of a continuous beam , being horizontal .
Let and the vertical forces be positive downwards .
At a given point in the span between those points let be the load per unit of span , and EI the stiffness of the cross-section , of which functions may be uniform or variable , continuous or discontinuous .
In each of the following double and quadruple definite integrals , Jet the lower limits be ; ( 1 ) When the integrations extend over the whole span , that will be denoted by affixing 1 ; for example , \amp ; c. Read January 27 , 1870 .
See vol. xviii .
p. 178 .
Theory of Continuous Beams .
Let be the upward shearing-force exerted close to the point of support , the bending moment , and the tangent of the inclination , positive downwards , at the same point .
Then , by the gene.ral theolv of deflcction , we have , at any point of the span , the following moment , ; ( 2 ) deflection , . . . . .
( 3 ) Let be the moment at the further end of the span , and suppose it iven .
This gives the following valnes for the shearin-force and slope at the point ; ( 4 ) and because Consider , now , an adjacent span extending from the point of support to a distance in the opposite direction , and let the definite integraIs expressed by the formulae ( 1 ) , with their lower limits still at the same point , be taken for this new span , being distinguished by the suffix - instead of 1 .
Let be the slope at the point of support have for the of that slope , .
( 5A ) Add together the equations ( 5 ) and ( 5A ) , and let denote the tangent of the small angle made by the ueutral layers of ) two spans with each other in order to give imperfect continuity .
Theu , after clearlng fractions , we have the following equation , hich expresses the theorem of the three moments in Mr. Heppel 's theory:\mdash ; ( 6 ) That equation gives a linear relation between the bending moments at any three consecutive points of support , and certain known functions of known quantities .
In a continuous girder of spans there are such equations and unknown moments ; for the momeuts at the end most supports are each .
The moments at the intermediate points of support are to be found by elimination ; which been done , the remaining quantities required may be computed for any particular span as follows : inclination at a point of support by equation ( 5 ) ; the shearing force at the same point by equation ( 4 ) , the deflection and moment at any point in that span by equationls ( and ( 2 ) .
Points of maximum and minimum moment of course found by making ; and points of ioflection by making Remarks on Mr. Heppel 's Theory of Continuous Beams .
2 .
Case of a uniform girder with an indeJinite number of equal uniformly loaded ; loads alternately light and \mdash ; The supposition just described forms the basis of the formulae given in a treatise called ' Manual of Civil Engineering , ' page 288 ; and it therefore seems to me desirable to test those formulae by means of Mr. Heppel 's method .
The cross-section of the whole girder and the load on a given span being uniform , the definite integraIs of the formulae ( 1 ) take the following values : \mdash ; . . . .
( 7 ) The values of those integrals for the complete span are expressed by making The values of and are the same for every span .
In the values of and , the load per unit of span has a greater and a less value alter ' nately .
Let be the weight per unit of span of the girder , with its fixed load , that of the travelling load ( increased , if necessary , to allow for the additional straining effect of motion ) ; then the aIternate values of are .
( 8 ) The moments at the points of support are all equal ; that is , Equation ( 6 ) now becomes the following ( the common factor having been cancelled ) ; giving for the bending moment at each point of support . .
( 9 ) If be made , so that the continuity is perfect , this equation exactly agrees with the formula at page 289 of the treatise just referred to ; and the same is the case with the following formulae for the shearing-forces and slopes close to a point of support , and for the moments and deflections at other points:\mdash ; Shearing-force , light load , ; Shearing-force , heavy load , .
Slope , light load , ; ( 11 ) Slope , heavy load , On the Action of Chloride of Zinc on Codeia .
Moment , light load , Moment , heavy load .
Cent moment , light load , ; Central moment , heavy load , .
( 13 ) Central deflection , light load , with x ; Central deflection , heavy load , ( 14 ) with x COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED SINCE THE END OF THE " " Researches into the Chemical Constitution of the Opium Bases .
\mdash ; Part .
On the Action of Chloride of Zinc on Codeia By AUGUSTUS MATTHIESSEN , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Hospital , and W. BURNSIDE , of Christ 's Hospital .
Received June 28 , 1870 .
On endeavouring to prepare apomorphia by a cheap method , Mr. Mayer and one of us heated morphia with of zinc , to see whether the elements of water could not be abstracted by this reagent ( the results of this reaction have not yet been published ) .
Apomorphia having been obtained in this manner , it seemed possible that apocodeia , that is codeia minus the elements of water , might be prepared by similar reaction .
On trying the experiment a new base was obtained , which proved on analysis to be apocodeia .
When hydrochlorate of codeia is heated with an excess of a concentrated solution of chloride of zinc , to a temperature varying between and C. , for about 15 minutes , the decomposition takes place ; on cooling a yellowish-brown tarry mass separates from the liquid , which on further cooling may be drawn into tbin threads , and thus obtained almost free from the excess of the chloride of zinc .
This amorphous silk-like mass is almost pure hydrochlorate of apocodeia .
To obtain the base in a pure state from this substance , the following method was employed:\mdash ; The hydrochlorate was dissolved in hot vater and precipitated by hy-

