III .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun.-No .
IV .
" By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received April 14 , 1869 .
I beg to lay before the Royal Society very briefly the results of observations made on the 11th instant in the neighbourhood of a fine spot , situated not very far from the sun 's limb .
I. Under certain conditions the C and F lines may be observed bright on the sun , and in the spot-spectrum also , as in prominences or in the chromosphere .
II .
Under certain conditions , although they are not observed as bright lines , the corresponding Fraunhofer lines are blotted out .
III .
The accompanying changes of refrangibility of the lines in question 1869 .
] 415 show that the absorbing material moves upwards and downwards as regards the radiating material , and that these motions may be determined with considerable accuracy .
IV .
The bright lines observable in the ordinary spectrum are sometimes interrupted by the spot-spectrum , i. e. they are only visible in those parts of the solar spectrum near , and away from , spots .
V. The C and F lines vary excessively in thickness over and near a spot , and on the 1lth in the deeper portion of the spot they were much thicker than usual .
IV .
Stars , in the spectrum of which the absorption-lines of hydrogen are absent , may either have their chromospheric light radiated from beyond the limb just balanced by the light absorbed by the chromosphere on the disk , or they may come under the condition referred to in ( II .
) , either absolutely or on the average .
ADDENDUM.-Received April 29 , 1869 .
Since the date on which the foregoing paper was written , I have obtained additional evidence on the points referred to .
I beg therefore to be permitted to make the following additions to it .
The possibility of our being able to determine the velocity of movements of uprush and downrush taking place in the chromosphere depends upon the alterations of wave-length observed .
It is clear therefore that a mere uprush or downrush at the sun 's limb will not affect the wave-length , but that if we have at the limb cyclones , or backward or forward movements , the wave-length will be altered ; so that we may have:1 .
An alteration of wave-length near the centre of the disk caused by upward or downward movements .
2 .
An alteration of wave-length close to the limb , caused by backward or forward movements .
If the hydrogen-lines were invariably observed to broaden out on both sides , the idea of movement would require to be received with great caution ; we might be in presence of phenomena due to greater pressure , both when the lines observed are bright or black upon the sun ; but when they widen out sometimes on one side , sometimes on the other , and sometimes on both , this explanation appears to be untenable , as Dr. Frankland and myself in our researches at the College of Chemistry have never failed to observe a widening out on both sides the F line when the pressure of the gas has been increased .
On the 21st I was enabled to extend my former observations .
On that day the spot , observations of which form the subject of the paper , was very near the limb ; as this was the first opportunity of observing a fine spot under such circumstances I had been able to utilize , I at once commenced work upon it .
The spot was so near the limb that its spectrum and that of the chromosphere were both visible in the field of view .
The spot-spectrum was very narrow , as the spot itself was so greatly foreshortened ; but the spectrum of the chromosphere showed me that the whole adjacent limb was covered with prominences of various heights all blended together .
Further , the prominences seemed fed , so to speak , from , apparently , the preceding edge of the spot ; for both C , F , and the line near D , were magnificently bright on the sun itself , the latter especially striking me with its thickness and brilliancy .
In the prominences C and F were observed to be strangely gnarled , knotty , and irregular , and I thought at once that some " injection " must be taking place .
I was not mistaken .
On turning to the magnesium lines I saw them far above the spectrum of the limb and unconnected with it .
A portion of the upper layer of the photosphere had in fact been lifted up beyond the usual limits of the chromosphere , and was there floating cloud-like .
The vapour of sodium was also present in the chromosphere , though not so high as the magnesium , or unconnected with the spectrum of the limb , and , as I expected , with such a tremendous uplifting force , I saw the iron lines ( for the first time ) in the spectrum of the chromosphere .
My observations commenced at 7.30 A.M. ; by 8.30 there was comparative quiet .
At 9.30 the action had commenced afresh ; there was now a single prominence .
At the base of the prominence I got this appearance : Higher up this : .
Here I may be permitted to recall the observation made on March 14 , in which a slight movement of the slit gave me first , then , and finally -i , all these appearances being due to cyclonic action .
1869 .
] Observations of the Sun .
On the following side of the spot , at about 10 A.M. , I observed that the F line had disappeared ; at the point of disappearance there appeared to be an elongated brilliantly illuminated lozenge lying across it at right angles , as if the spectroscope were analyzing the light proceeding from a cyclone of hydrogen on the sun itself , but so near the limb that the rotatory motion could be detected .
The next observations I have to lay before the Royal Society were made on the 27th inst .
Careful observations on the 25th and 26th revealed nothing remarkable except that the chromosphere was unusually uniform .
On the 27th a fine spot with a long train of smaller ones and faculhe was well on the disk .
The photosphere in advance of the spot , and the large spot itself , showed no alteration from the usual appearance of the hydrogenlines ; but in the tails of the spot the case was widely different .
The F line , at which I worked generally , as the changes of wave-length are better seen , was as irregular as on the former occasions .
I. It often stopped short of one of the small spots , swelling out prior to disappearance .
II .
It was invisible in a facula between two small spots .
III .
It was changed into a bright line , and widened out on both sides two or three times IN THE VERY SMALL SPOTS .
IV .
Once I observed it to become bright near a spot , and to expand over it on both sides .
V. Very many times near a spot it widened out , sometimes considerably , on the less refrangible side .
VI .
Once it extended as a bright line without any thickening over a small spot.i !
l VII .
Once it put on this appearance bright .
VIII .
I observed in it all gradations of darkness .
IX .
When the bright and dark lines were alongside , the latter was always the less refrangible .

