]\gt ; 206 Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
' The Homogeneity of Helium and of Argon By WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and J. NORMAN COLLIE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received July 21 , 1896 .
Prehminary .
It was pointed out by Lord Rayleigh and one of the authors that it is a legitimate conclusion to draw , from the found ratio between its specific heat at constant pressure and that at constant volume , that is a monatomic element Phil. Trans .
similar deduction can be drawn regarding helium ( ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1895 , p. 699 ) .
And as the molecular weight of hydrogen is accopted as twice its atomic weight , and as the density of ]Jelium is approximately .
2 , and that of argon approximately 20 , the molecular weights of these elements are approximately 4 and 40 respectively .
If , however , the molecule is identical with the atom , then the atomic weights must also necessarily be 4 and 40 .
But argon , with an atomic weight of 40 , finds no placs in the periodic table of the elements , if , as is usual , it is contended that the elements must necessarily follow each other in the numerical order of their atomic weights .
Certain suppositions may be made which would obviate this difficulty .
First , the evidence from the ratio of the specific heats may lead to a false conclusion .
But it is conceivable that any structure , except one of the simplest kind , should transform all energy communicated to it as heat , into kinetic energy of translation .
Still , before a final decision on this point is at , it would be well to ctually determine the specific heat of argon , and this will shortly be done .
It may , however , be mentioned , that preliminary have shown it to be much lower than that of hydrogen , air , or carbon dioxide , voInme for volume .
Second , helium and argon may consist of a mixture of monatomic with diatomic molecules .
The perfectly Ilormal expansion of these gases appears to negative this supposilion ( ' Phil. Trans p. 239 , and 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 60 ) .
]]iven at a temperature of there appears to be no marked tendency towards association .
It is true that the ratios of the specific heats do not quite reach the theoretical number .
That found for helium was , and that for , with the most carefully purified samples .
Assuming ( what there seems good ground to doubt ) that the ] decimal place may be trusted , helium can be calculated to contain nearly 7 per cent. of diatomic molecuIes , and argon rather more than.3 per cent. If this calculation be permitted , the atomic weight of helium would become , taking its found density at The Homogeneity of and , and of argon .
This would place argon below potassium , the atomic weight of which is .
However , it mnst be acknowIedged that such refinements in calculation are far from trustworthy .
Third , helium and argon may each consist of a mixture of two or more elements .
This view has been expressed with regard to helium by Professors Rung and Paschen ( ' Sitzungsber . .
Akad .
Wissensch Berlin , 1895 , pp. 639 and 759 ) , on the ground that the lines of its spectrum can be shown to belong to two distinct series .
Tho question whether argon is a mixture or not was discussed in the memoir by Lord Rayleigh and one of the authors p. 236 ) .
It is with this possibility that the present communication has to Two methods suggest themselves as suitable in order to ascertain whether argon and helium are mixtures of two or more elements , or are single elements .
The first is fractional solution in water ; the second fractional diffusion .
The sscond method is obviously the .
calculated to yield the data ; for if these gases contain constituents of different density , diffusion is an infallible means of sepal'ating them .
Description of Diffusion Apparatus .
After a number of lrials , the stem of an ordinary tobacco-pipe was found to yield the best results .
Plaster of Paris is too porous , and various forms of graphite tried did not eifect so rapid a separation of wo known gases as unglazed clay .
In fact , nothing could have been more satisfactory than this apparatus .
It consists of a reservoir for bhe gas , , into which.projects a piece of the stem of a tobacco-pipe , , seaJed at the lower end iu the flame of an oxy-hydrogen blowpipe .
When the stop-cock is open , and and shut , the gas in A must through the pipe-clay tube on its way to the reservoir of the pump F. The fall of the cury in the tube , read on the scale , is timed , about 8 cm..fall being taken as sufficient for the purpose .
The mercury rises , and falls in the reservoir I during the diffusion .
When the iment is finished , the gas is pumped out of reservoir and collected in tubes similar to that depicted at , and stored in a frame resembling a miniature umbrella-stand .
The is then opened , and the clip is shut , and the less diffusible portion of the gas } ) out and collected in other tubes , and set apart .
The purity of the gas is ascertained by means of the acuum tube M. After all gas been removed , the stop-cocks and are shut .
new charge of gas is introduced at , the stop-cock being opened , and the operation repeated .
After a sufficient amount of the first sate has been collected , is again introduced into the reservoir , and the process repeated .
Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
When towards the end ouly a small amount of gas is available , the process modified by raising the reservoir I , and so diminishing the volume of A. The clip is then closed , and the gas is allowed to diffnse as before , but the volume in A is kept constant .
The rate of diflusion can be compared with that of hydrogen under precisely similar circumstnnces .
In all the experiments the temperature did not alter by more han a degree or two ; as the iect was to effect a separation , and not to make accurate determinations of the rates of diffusion of gases , careful regulation of temperature was unnecessary .
Determination of the Ratios of Diffusion of Gases of known Purity .
Hydrogen .
time required for the column of mercury in to sink through 8 centimetres , starting always from the same level , was found in three experiments to be and ( 3 ) ; the mean is 430 The average rate per millimetre is ( b ) Oxygen.\mdash ; The time which pure oxygen , made from permanga The Homogeneity of nate , took to diffuse to the same extent was 1719 giving an average rate per millimetre of Acetylene.\mdash ; The gas was prepared from pnre calcium carbide by the action of water .
It dissolved completely in alcohol .
The time required for diffusion was , giving a rate per millimetre of Assuming the times for the diifusion of these to be proportional to the square roots of their ities , we have\mdash ; 5.3 For oxygen .
Found For acetylene .
Found This process may therefore be trusted to give fairly accurate results when applied to test the rates of diffusion of gases of known purity .
The of fnre of To taiu whether a sepnro t be easiIy effected , experiments were } on a mixtul .
C of oxygen carbon dioxide , and ( b ) a mixtnre of ogen a helinm .
( a ) und Carbon Dioxide.\mdash ; The ol.iginal mixture contained .36 cent. by volume of carboll dioxide .
It split into two approximately equal portions ; was split into two .
The most diffusible part contained per cent. of carbon dioxide , and the least diffnsible part per cent. ( b ) Hydrogen and Helium.\mdash ; The ol.iginal mixture contained 50 per .
of each gas , and its volume was 38 c.c. 19 .
were diffused ; this was again halved , .
being passed through the pipe ; and { inally another diffusion of the .
yielded .
of mixed ases .
The hydrogen was removed by explosion with oxygen .
This mixture now consisted of 67 per cent. of drogen and 33 per cent. of helium .
From these experiments it is seen that a partial separation of such is easily car.ried out .
The f'ractional Diffusion of Argon .
hundred .
of argon , newly circulated er red-hot magnesium until spectroscopic traces of nitrogen were carefully removed , was diffused according to the subjoined scheme:\mdash ; Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
The densities were determined by weighing .
These numbers show that no important separation has been effected .
The difference in density of the two portions may possibly be attributed to.experimental error .
When the density of the heavier portion was taken the weather was damp , and we have found it difficult to obtain concordant results under such circumstances , owing doubtless to the uneven deposition of moisture on the surfaces of the buib and its counterpoise .
But as it stands , the differe1lce is an extremely minute one , and it may , we think , be taken that any separation of argon , if effected at all , is very imperfect .
The Fractional Diffusion of Hehum .
Two hundred c.c. of helium from fergusonite of density were separated into two nearly equal portions by diffusion .
The rate of diffusion was per millimet].e as a mean of two experiments , giving and respectively .
The most diffusible porbion of this gas gave the rate per millimetre .
The more diffusible half of this gas had the rate , and the Ieast diffusible of remainder , the temperature being lower .
A second specimen of helium from mixed sources , samarskite , fergusonite , broggerite , \amp ; c. , which showed the nitrogen spectrum , gave a rate for the first portion of .
This half on rediffusion had the rate and the residue of , showing that a separation was being eifected .
The heavier residue of the remainder from that portio1J which showed the rate was too small to make it possible to dffiuse it the usual method .
A second method was therefore resorted to , and it was directly compared with hydrogen under the same circumstances .
While hydrogen took per millimetre , the residue took , and calculating its density from these rates , we have\mdash ; This would correspond , if it be granted that the impurity is nitrogen , to a percentage of of that gas .
This residue showed The Homogeneity of Helium and Argon .
strong nitrogen spectrum ; and the nitrogen was removed by sparking with oxygen in presence of soda , until the spectrum attested its absence .
( It will be remembered that per cent. of nitrogen is still visible under moderate ssures , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 59 , p. 265 .
) The rate was again measured against that of hydrogen under precisely similar conditions , and it was found that while hydrogen took for , this specimen of helium took .
And calculation shows its density to be now These experiments were sufficient to show , we , that while it is possible to ssparate nitrogen from helium , even although the former is in only small amount , we had not succeeded in separating elium itself into two porbions of diiferent densities .
If , then , helium were a mixture , its constitutents must possess nearly the same density .
In no case was any of the spectrum to be noticed ; the diffnsate and the residue were similar , and showed all the well known Iines of elium with the usual intensity .
But it was deemed advisable , in view of the importance of the matter , to undertake a much more elaborate set of experiments .
The helium was careflllly purified from hydrogen and nitrogen by circulation over magnesium , copper oxide , phosphorus pentoxide , and soda lime , until a small quantity admitted into a vacuum tube in connection with the circ.ulatingapI ) aratus showed no spectrum eithel of hydrogen or nih.ogen , even at a comparatively pressure , when these ases are more easily detected .
The helinm was then fractionated a manner exactly ilar to that bhown in the graphic scheme for argon ( p. 210 ) .
The rates of diffusion of the two samples of gas were then measured .
More diffusible portion\mdash ; Time of diffusion reduced to Hydrogen Density , calculated from rate . . . .
, . . .
1826 diJfusible portion\mdash ; Time of diffusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hydrogen , at same ature . . . . . .
Density , calculated from rate . . . . . . . .
The density of hydrogen was taken as , on the xygen sanlples were next weighed .
diffusible portion\mdash ; Volume of globe . . . . . . . . . . .
c.c. at filling . . . . . . . . . .
668.5 mm. emperature Weight. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Density . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
Less diffusible Volume of globe . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pressure at mm. Temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
gram Density. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The less sible portion was next subjected to the process of removing nine-tenbhs , remaining benth being collected apart .
This process was repeated three times , so that any portion of gas less diffusible than the main bulk should thus be left as a residue .
From the more diifusible portion nine-tenths was also diffused out .
The more diffusible portions were then mixsd , and the density was again determined .
Volume of globe . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pressure at mm. Temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weight .
, , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80lgram Density . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
This number is practically idenbical with that previousIy obtained , It was of intersst to follow the less diffusible gas , as to ascertain what impurity caused its higher density .
Another set of fractionawas therefore carried out , and after five separate processes , in each of which a residue was left , and that residue further diffused , so as to separate all light gas as completely as possible , a few of gas were collected , in which the spectrum of argon was strong .
Now we are certain that at no stage in the operations was any considerable quantity of air admitted by leaka. .
It may safely be said that the amount of air could never have exceeded 5 .
And inasmuch as the density of samples of helium from various sources , which had undergone very little handling , differed by small varying between and , this must be ascribed to contamination with argon , contained in the mineral from which the helium had been obtained .
Every effort was made to detect any unknown lines in the spectrum of the residue , but in vain .
With the jar and spark-gap , the blue spectrum of argon was visible , and was oompared with that from a standard tube .
If thus the increased density is due to argon , it is possible to calculate the proportion of the latter ; first , in the lightest gas of density found in samarskite ; second , in the residue in which the argon had been concentrated , possessing the density , on the assump- .
tion that helium possesses the density .
The first must contain per cent. of argon ; the second , per cent. Homogeneity of Helium and 211 ' } The rate of diffusion of the gas of density was determined finally , so as to afford a check on its density .
It took for a quantity to diffuse ; while the same volume of under precisely similar circumstances took .
Reducing these to density , if hydrogen be taken as , the helium possesses the density , which compares very favourably with the number already found , , a final check on these resuIts , a sample of helium from an different source , samarskite , was so diffused , that first ninetenths removed by diffusion ; from the residue nine-tenths was again emoved , and the process was repeated a third time .
The nor diffusible portion was tested as regards rate ; while hydrogen took to diffuse , this sample took .
Stated as density , number is The actual density was next determined , with the following roqnlt : \mdash ; Volume of globe . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pressure at . . .
mm. Temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denf , ity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
is number closely coincidc the density of specimen , from argon by diffusion ; and in this case it must remembered , no systematic process separating two possible conrried out , the heavier portiou only was removed .
The heavier separated by diffusion was examined for argon , and it was possible to see the green group of five lines , but not the red lines .
And with a jar and spark-gap , argon could just be detected .
The rate of Jsion of this gas , which , stated as density , gives the number , differs from the density determined by lveighing , , or thereabouts .
This might be caused ( 1 ) by a lighter portion passing over first during diffusion , leaving a heavier portion behind ; or ( 2 ) by the hypothesis that the rate of diffusion of helium is abnormal ; and hclium has already shown stlch very remarkable propertics in elation to refractivity for light , and conductivity for electricity , that the hypothesis is not unwarrantable .
The first supposition , however , is the more probable , and was put to the test in the manner .
A smaller apparatus was made for measuring the rate of diffusion of 10 to 20 .
of gas ; and the rates of the sample of density and of the less diffusible residues from this mple were determined .
Both the hydrogen and the helium were carefully measured and diffused under precisely similar conditions .
While the -drogen took 181 to , the helium of density took Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
density of ; and the residue dffiused in , which corresponds to a density of .
In each of these experiments about half the helium passed through the porous plu The denser portion of this gas was again diffused five times , lighter portions being removed .
This corresponds to a residue of 30 from 400 .
of the original gas .
The rate of diffusion of this sample compared with that of hydrogen was almost identical with the last , namely to 143 and corresponds to a density of .
The gas is therefore not increased in density by this process .
The lighter gas was submitted to a similar fractionation , and the ratio of its diffusion-rate to that of hydrogen was to as a mean of several closely concordant experiments .
This corres ponds to a density of .
We have accordingly:\mdash ; Density .
'Heavy\ldquo ; portion . . . . . . . . . . . .
, " " Light\ldquo ; portion . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Not content with this , we pushed fractionation still further ; the helium was divided into seven portions ( by fractionation and then submitted to methodical fractional diffusion , in which the heavier portions were transferred to the " " denser\ldquo ; side , and the lighter portions to the " " lighter\ldquo ; side .
This ocess was repeated four times , and the end portions were each divided into two ; the lighter portion of the " " lighter\ldquo ; as collected separately , and its rate determined .
It took to diffuse , compared with .
an equal volume of hydrogen ; its density calculated from these rates was .
It is clear , therefore , that the limit has been reached in purifying the lighter portion by diffusion .
It should have been mentioned that the porbion of density as well as that of density had been sparked with oxygen in presence of potash , and in a vacnum tube showed mere traces of hydrogen , every .
being absent .
The spectrum of hydrogen is still visible , even when per cent. of that gas is present .
At various times during attempt to separate }elium , the spechas been carefully examined .
The very first portions of the lightest gas gave an identical , seen with a hand-spectroscope , with the very last portions of the heaviest gas .
Professor Ames , of the Johns Hopkins ersity , has bowever kindly undertaken to photogr the spectra using a ersi r so that if any difference can detectod , it will ere long be made known .
Lord Rayleigh was so kind as to measure the refractivity of these extreme portions of the fractionated gas .
His process has been described in the ' Proceedings , ' vol. 59 , p. 202 .
For the sample of helium seut him in ] , 1895 , he found the number .
The lighter portion of the fractionated gas of density L876 had a refracThe Homogeneity of Helium and Argon .
tivity , compared with air as unity , of ; the heavier pol.tion , of .
The ratio of these numbers is very nearly that between the densities of the gases .
, instead of Conclusion .
It must be that the rate of diifusion of helium is too for its density me sured by weighing .
can be no doubt , we think , that the density of the lighter portion , instead of bein , , would be , if acbual ] yweigl ) or .
And the portion has doubtless a proportionately .
But , assuming that the densities calculated from the diffusion-rates are correct , the densities of the two gases , that two exist , , respectively .
Also , we must not omit to state that careful ) ents were made with the more rapidly diflusing gas to prove that the first portions passing over did not diffuse at a more rapid than the later portions , no diffet.ence in diifusion rates , compared of hydrogen under the same tances having been detected .
That helium , then , consists of a mixture of two or re distinc gases is oue solution of the problem , probably the one icll r mends itself at first sight .
But there is :inother , so CVolutionary in its charactcl that much must be done before be regarded evcn to be entertained .
So much owever , been Iost lo science by what may be termed scientific incl.edulity , that we egard i well worth putting t , o a rigorous proof .
It is that a separation has been effected of molecules from heavy lles ; , in fact , a gas\mdash ; in this case helium\mdash ; is not constituted entirely of moIecules of the same lt'eight , but that the mixture of molecuIes which we term helium have weights verage 2 , or whatever the density of ordinary undiffused helium may ultimately be found to be .
The same supposition would , 0 course , be to oxygen , nitrogen , or any gas .
In such molecules each other a practical limib must necessarily reached , and limit appears to have been reacbed with helium .
There is negative and positive probability in favoul of this suggestion .
First , no gas bas been submitted to methodicnl diffusiolI with a view to effect such a separation , argotl excepted ; and lJere , too , there is faint evidence of a similar .
It is proposed to out similar experiments with gases of undoubted eneit .
according to the usual views ; and till such have been made , it is impossible to , the point definitely .
Second , Mr. E. C. C. Baly 's on oxygen appear to 216 Prof. W. N. .
On the Spectrum of Cyanogen point to a similar conclusion ; although no great alteration in density has been produced , yet there is a sign that a kind of separation being effected electrically .
There is also in favour of the supposi .
tion the unlikelihood that two or more gases , so like one another the constituents of helium , should exist with densities so near each other ; and the probability that some separation slJould have been detected by aid of the spectroscope .
Lastly , the refractivities of both gases , if there be two , appea to be equally abnormal ; now , different gases have different refrac .
tivities no known reIation to their densities , as , for example ydrogen 0 nearly 1 .
Bnt the refractivities of the dif .
ferent portions of helium are proportionaI to their densities ; statement which is true of any one gas , inasmuch as refractivity directly proportionaI t , o pressul.e , i.e. , mass in unit volume .
refractivity of .
helium , also , is so small that it totally differs in this respect , as , indeed , it does in most of its physical from every other gas , and it is moreover a monatomic gas .
Tt is bherefore permissible to seek for an explal ) atiou of its remarkable properties fi.aming any hypothesis which admits of being put to the test .
" " On the Spectrum of Cyanogen as produced and modified by Spark Discharges By W. N. HARTLEy , F.B.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received July 13 , 1896 .
The Production of in the Eleciric very , careful and numerous experiments of Living and } have very generally been accepted as ding evidencc sufficient to establish the existence of an emission spectrum of cyanogen as distinct from that of carbon in the electric arc .
Kayser and Rung , though at disinclined to arcepb such a conclusion , obtained additional evidence by experimenting with the arc in air , and carbon dioxide .
They found that the ordinary carbon spectrum and that of cyanogen appeared with rapidity alternately in the arc in air , though there be no difference in temperature sufficient to account for the of carbon spectra .
With the poles immersed in carbon dioxide no changes wero seen , lihe carbon spectrum alone being visible , which evidence led them to concur in the views of eing and Dewar .
The chief evidsnce of the existence of a cyanogen spectrum rests on the fact that this substance is actually synthesised in the arc when nitrogen is present , and because without * ' .
Soc. Proc vol. 30 , pp. 152\mdash ; 162 , 494\mdash ; 509 : vol. 34 , pp. 123\mdash ; 130 and pp. " " Ueber die Spectren der Element .
Zweiter Abschnitt .
Ueber die im galvanischen Lichtbogen auftretenden Bandenspectre ] ] der 'Abh .
K. Preuss .
Ak .
Wiss 1889 , p. 9 .

