240 The Spectrum of 7 " The Spectrum of 7 Cygni .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B , F.R.S. , and F. E. Baxandall , A.R.C.Sc .
Received December 11 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The paper gives an account of the investigation of the Spectrum of 7 Cygni in relation to other celestial and terrestrial spectra .
It is pointed out that this spectrum\#151 ; which is of the Polarian type in the Kensington classification\#151 ; is the connecting link between the spectrum of the Aldebarian stars , in which the arc lines of the metallic elements predominate , and that of a Cygni , chiefly composed of the enhanced lines of some of the metals .
These two sets of lines are of about equal prominence in the 7 Cygni spectrum .
It is also shown that , in regard to the relative intensities of the metallic and proto-metallic lines , there is a close resemblance between the spectrum of 7 Cygni and that of the chromosphere , thus indicating that the temperature and electrical conditions prevailing in the two light sources are nearly identical .
A comparison , however , of the intensities of the stronger arc and enhanced lines in the two spectra tends to show that the chromosphere is , if anything , of a slightly higher temperature .
It is claimed that the majority of the lines of 7 Cygni\#151 ; and therefore , also , of the chromosphere\#151 ; are due to metallic vapours , and that there is little evidence to support Professor Dewar 's suggestion that most of the 339 chromospheric lines , recorded by Humphreys in his eclipse results , can be accounted for as probably being due to the rarer atmospheric gases .
The relation of the 7 Cygni spectrum to that of a Cygni is also discussed in detail .
At the end of the paper a table is given showing the wave-lengths , intensities , and probable origins of the lines which occur in the photographic spectrum of 7 Cygni , taken with a 6 " Henry prism of 45 ' angle .
The lines are compared with those of the chromosphere , 8 Canis Majoris ( Pickering 's record ) , and a Cygni .

