EXPERIMENT II .
Again , after the Tube had been fresh rubbed , and the Leaf-Brass scattered on the Table as usual , if a piece of Paper was held to touch the upper part of the Tube , it would not attract at all , altho ' approached very near ; but so soon as the Paper was removed , it recovered its Sphere of Activity , which was very sensible , by giving a brisk motion to those Bodies , which just before were Quiescent .
And it may be remembred , that it is mentioned in the Experiment for producing Light by the Effluvia of the outward Glass falling on the inward exhausted Glass in Motion , that after the Motions were ceased , it was but approaching one 's Hand near the Surface of the outward Glass , to produce a Light in the inward one : Whence , by these Experiments it is plain , the Effluvia within were pushed more vigorously on the inward Glass , by the approach of the Hand without , otherwise no Light would have ensued .
And farther to prove the stiffness of the Body of the Effluvia , it is observable , that when a piece of Leaf-Brass is hunted about a Room , that the Brass swims or floats on the Surface of the Effluvia ; and as that is more or less exerted , so the Brass keeps its distance from it , nor will by any means be suffered to sink within it 's Sphere , unless it meets with a Body in its way , and then it is attracted and returned again several times with great swiftness .
EXPERIMENT III .
Having tried the Effect of the discontinuing or interrupting of the Effluvia of the Affricated Tube on its outward Surface , I was willing to try what would ensue , by filling its Cavity with a Body , which I did , by plugging up one end of it with a Cork , then pouring in at the other dry Writing Sand till it was near full : After that , the Attrition was diligently made , and when held towards the pieces of Brass as usual , no motion was given , till it arrived within an Inch or thereabouts of them .
And thus on several Trials it answered much alike .
And if at the same time the Sand be shot suddenly out , the Tube will attract the same Bodies at double or treble the foremention 'd distance , without any fresh Attrition ; which plainly shows , that altho ' the Tube will attract when approached near , yet the Body within is a sensible Impediment to the Extention of its Action without .
This brings to my mind the unsuccessfulness of the Attempt I made to attract Bodies with a Tube exhausted of its Air ; which seems to conclude , there being no Air within , to bear the Effluvia from its Body , a continuum of their Parts must consequently be prevented , Now how far these Experiments and Observations serve to Account for the premention 'd Phenomenon , in Relation to the Motion given Bodies within the Glass by the approach of a Body towards its outside , I leave wholly to this Honourable Society to determine .
I. An Account of the Repetition of an Experiment touching Motion given Bodies included in a Glass , by the Approach of a Finger near its outside : With other Experiments on the Effluvia of Glass .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. THIS Experiment having been but imperfectly made before , I thought a Repetition of such a surprising Phenomenon would not be unacceptable to the Society , seeing , not only the Apparatus was better adapted , but the Appearance was much more conspicuous .
For it was observable , that after the Motion and Attrition had been continued about 2 or 3 Minutes , and then ceasing , the Threads within seemed to hang in a careless Confusion , and were not Instantaneously erected , but in about 3 or 4 Seconds of Time they were so , every way towards the Circumference of the Glass ; and seemingly with so much Stoutness , that a Motion of the Glass alone would give them no great Disorder : but that which was the most surprising , was to see a Motion given them by the Approach of ones Hand , Finger , or any other Body , at more than 3 Inches distance from its outward surface , notwithstanding the Threads within touched not the inward one .
And it was farther observable , that after every Repetition of the Motion of the Wheel , and the new ~ of the Glass , that the distance , at which the Threads might be moved , seemed to be Increased .
And I have since found that the Threads could have a notable Motion given them , by blowing towards the Glass with One 's Mouth at 3 or 4 Foot distance ; by which means the Air was put in Motion , and consequently the Effluvia of Glass were so too .
And at another time , when I have suddenly clapped my spread Hands on the Upper and Lower Parts of the Globe , there has been such a Violent Agitation of the Threads within , as was very surprising , and continued so for some time .
But how to Account for such Uncommon Phenomenon seems very difficult .
Yet give me leave to make some Observations on former Experiments of the like kind , which with Remarks on some others lately made , may in some measure solve that difficulty .
The Experiment where the directed Threads on the outside of the Glass would fly the Approach of any thing held near them , seems to me , that the Parts of the Effluvia are stiff , and continued , that when any part of them are pushed , all that are in the same Line suffer the same Disorder .
So even in this Experiment ( I have just now been relating ) allowing a Continuum of Parts , ( as I see no reason to the contrary ) the Effluvia within , and those without , are all of a Piece , ( for they are both begot by the same Attrition ) that when the Effluvia are pushed , or disturbed without , the Effluvia within , in the same direction are so too , and consequently the Threads which are upheld and directed by 'em .
The Effluvia which are provoked from the Glass , seem to be , and are nothing else but part of the same Body exerted from it by rubbing ; therefore ( I think ) can be no Impediment to the Motion of its own Effluvia , for otherwise I do not see how the Effluvia within , can be produced by an Attrition without .
And for a farther Confirmation that the Effluvia of Glass act not but in a Continuum of their Parts , take the following Experiments .
EXPERIMENT I. I took a piece of Leaf Brass , and laid it between two pieces of Wood about an Inch in thickness , and the same distance asunder .
Then I applied a well rubbed Tube to attract the Brass , even so near as the Wood would suffer , but gave it no manner of Motion ; but so soon as the Wood was removed , and the Continuum of its Sphere restored , the Brass was driven to it very vigorously , without any fresh Attrition ; which I think most plainly proves , that the Action of the Effluvia , or at least in a great measure , is lost , if the Parts of it are discontinued by any thing Interposing , or Interrupting its Spherical Figure .
Nay , I have tried , by holding the Tube so , that its Sphere might meet with no Interruption by the Wood in its Circle round the Axis of the Glass , yet this would exhibit nothing neither ; by which I find , that if the Parts of the Effluvia are in a manner interrupted , their Action is lost , or at least mightily impaired .

