]\gt ; 196 Mr. A. E. Donkin ofor the [ Feb. Temperature C The genel.al result of these experiments is , that sulphate-of-lime solution absorbs a little more carbonic acid than water , but follows the same law of variation with temperature and pressure : sulphate-of-magnesia solution diflers slightly from water when but little time is left for the reaction tcontact fconsiderable tifference between toefficientsof olution becomes varked , that oatter being lressures areater faterThe details ohese experiments wound elsewhere more extended paper .
II .
D , M.A , F.R.A.S. , FellowofExeterOnan , Instrument fomposition oarmonic College , Oxford .
Communicated by W. Treas .
R.S. Received November 1873 .
The interest in such compound curves lies in the fact that as a simple harmonic curve may be considered to be the curve of pressure on the tympanic membrane whsn the ear is in the neighbourhood of avibrating harmonic curves wurve oressure fonsonance ohebody producing asimple tcurve compounded oimple two tones which they severally represent , and thus the effect on the ear ; of erent consonances can be distinctly represented to the eye .
If the motion of a point be compounded of rectihnear harmonic irection ohose vibrations , oint wdescrib ievibrations aotion itrai h harmonic curve .
movi uheir direction wupon b curve .
The same kind of curve would also be drawn by keeping the pencil AB fixed and by giving to the paper , in addition to its continuous motion , a vibratory motion similar and parallel to that which the penc had ; and if the motion of the latter be nowrestored , a complicated curve will be produced whose form will depend on the ratio of the numbers 1874 .
] Composition of two Harmonic Curves .
197 vibrations iu a given time of the pencil and paper , which be the curve of pressnre for the interval corresponding to this ratio .
The manner in which these three motions are combined in the machine is as TtWO vertical spindles , A in a carry at their lower ends each a tIlk , ] ) , and their ) a cut with certain nunlber of teeth ; be connected by means of an intermediale is seen in the : 198 Mr. A. E. Domkin on an Instrument for the [ Feb. number of teeth , the relative angular velocities of the spindles can be lated at pleasure .
The paper upon which the curve is to be drawn is camed upon arectangular frame , EF , capable of sliding horizontally up and down in a direction parallel to that of the plane passing through the spindles .
This frame has a pair of rollers , and , at each end connected bytape-bands , between which the paper passes as the roUers turn .
In order to give a motion of revolution to the rollers , a wheel , , is fixed upon the axis of one of them whose teeth gear into those of a pinion , , alongside which the frame slides , and which is itself driven by one of the vertical spindles .
A comlecting-rod , , is carried to the frame from the crank of this spindle , so that upon turning the latter a vibratory motion is given to the former ; and since the transverse motion of the paper also depends upon the same spindle , a fixed pencil-point resting on it would draw a simple harmonic curve whose amplituds would depend on the radius of the crank , and -length on the transverse speed of the paper , which can be regulated at pleasure by means contrived for the purpose* .
A vibratory motion similar and parallel to that of the frame is given to a small tubular glass pen , , so arranged as to move with its point lightly resting upon the paper .
This motion is communicated by a connecting-rod , CN , from the other crank , which is carried undsrneath the sliding-frame and jointed to the lower end of a small vertical lever , , to whose upper end the arm carrying the pen is attached .
The weight serves to regulate the pressure of the pen on the paper , as it can be screwed ill or out .
is merely a pillar upon which the change-wheels can be placed for convenience .
If the pair of wheels on the spindles are now connected by the intermediate one , it is plain that , upon turmng either of the spindles by a winch provided for the purpose , the two motions of the ] be combined with that of the pen , and the curve drawn will be that composed of the two simple harmonic ones , which would be the result of separately combining the harmonic vibrations due to each crank with the transverse motionof the paper .
Thus if and are the numbers of teeth on the pair of wheels respectively , the equation to the resultant curve will be This equation implies that not only are the radii of the cranks the same , but also that they start parallel to each other and at right angles to the vertical plane passing through their axes : both these conditions can , however , be altered ; and therefore the general form of equation to the curves which the machine can draw will be , *It should be observed that the vibratory motion thus given to the frame is not trulyharmonic .
In order to make it so , a more complicated contrivance than the simplo crank and connecting-rod would have to be adopted ; but this would probably introduce , through unavoidable , an error mter than the present one , the length of the con- rodeand tmall sizeofthecranksrendoring tattornearlyinappreciable .
Thmotionwiu , however , idered tlyharmonicthroughout : 1874 .
] Composition of two Harmonic Curves .
where and are the radii of the cranks , and and are dependent on their relative inclinations to the above-mentioned vertical plane at starting .
As an example , suppose that , while the ratio of } to is as 2 to 1 ; then the above equation will represent the of pressure for he octave .
Similarly , if is to as 16 to 15 , the resultant curve represents the effect on the ear of a diatonic semitone , }hile the ratio 81 to 80 Otlld give that of the comma .
In both these , and more especially in the latter , the beats hich ] ensue on ctually sounding the tones together are shown with remarkable distinctness .
As the machine is ith a set of change-v heels , many diflerent curves can be produced , while the form of each can be more or less changed altering the positions of the cranks before bringing the idle heel into gear .
It is also possible to obtain } ery large values of and in the abole equation by using idle wheels on the same axis hich shall come into gear , the upper one ith on the one spindle , the ome xs that on the other .
Thus , suppose A and are the numbers of teelh on the heels respectivel .
' and those on the idle ] , and let A gear ith BC and with ; then , by properly choosing the four wheels , large values of and may be obtained .
If , for instance , , and , this ratio being nearly , the corresponding curl ill represent the effect of an slightly out of tune .
The of such as these being long , it is necessary to have a good ] ) ] of paper ; and this is arranged by carrying a reelfull on the horizontal frame , from which it is } the rollers .
he rate at which this taLes place has a good deal of influence on the form of the resultant curve ; the it is he more compressed will the latter appear .
Iustead of using paper , the } , provided the periods are short enough , may be ( hawn on slips of blackened glass , which can be carried along the tapes connecting the rollers ; they cam be at once placed in a lantern and throv on a screen .
The width of contour of any depends on the radii of the cranks ; these may have any value even and ] an inch , and therefore the limit of possible width at any part will be inches ; so also , by altering the radii , a series of curves may be produced corresponding to the consonances of tones not of the same inteusities .
Since he maximum 1dth of any curve ill be double the sum of the radii of the , the paper is cut to a 1dth of and a half inches , ithin hich can possibly be drawn be comprised .
The instrument is constructed by Messrs. TisIey { tJld Spiller , Brompton Road , to whom some improvement upoa the model is due .

