XXI .
An extraordinary Case of a Fracture of the Arm ; communicated by Mr. John Freke , F. R. S. Surgeon to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
THE following Extract of a Letter from Mr. John Bard , Surgeon , in New York , having been communicated to me , I thought the Case so curious , and to have been treated in so skilful and regular a manner , as to be worthy of being laid before this learned Society .
J. FREK E. Eee ` ` IN Read April 5 .
IN May 1746 .
as Colonel Morris 's Lady was going from this City to Morrisena , the Colonel 's Country Seat , she had the Misfortune of being thrown out of her Chaise by the Horses suddenly falling down ; by which means she had both the Bones of her left Arm broke .
She was immediately conveyed to the Hermitage , a Country Seat belonging to the Honourable Joseph Murray , Esq ; which is about a Mile and a Half from the Place where she met with this unlucky Accident .
Being sent for by the Colonel , I examined the Case , and found the Bones broke in an oblique Direction , a very great Contusion of the Muscles , and the Arm already tumified ; which , together with the being three Months gone with Child , obliged me , previous to the Reduction , to bleed her in the Right Arm .
I then carefully reduced the broken Arm , and applied the proper Bandages .
The Case succeeded , with less Inflammation than usually attends more simple Accidents of this Kind ; and , in about twelve Days , she ventured to go from the Hermitage to Morrisena , being about six Miles .
But what I think remarkable in this Case is , that tho ' the Ends of the fractured Bones had been exactly applied to each other , and tho ' the Bandages had been continued forty Days , yet , upon their being removed , the Callus remained so soft and flexible , that her Arm could be bent with the greatest Ease into any Position , and appeared perfectly strait , to the Satisfaction of the Patient and Family .
But , as I observed the Callus to be unconfirmed , I re-applied the Bandage , which remained on five Weeks longer .
Upon a second Examination , I found , to my Surprise , and the great Uneasiness of the Patient and Family , the Callus as soft and yielding as before .
I therefore could not help thinking this Case to be similar to two Cases which Hildanus gives the History of from his own Practice : For , as the Patient at this time was about five Months gone with Child , Nature determined those nutritious and agglutinating Juices , which were necessary to form and consolidate the Callus , into a different Chanel ; viz. to the Support and Increase of the Faetus .
As a Consequence of this Opinion , I contrived a Bandage made of Velvet , with four thin Blades of Steel , a Quarter of an Inch broad , and seven Inches long , which were covered with Velvet , and fixed to the Inside of the Velvet Bandage ; and to the Bandage itself I fixed four small Buckles , with their corresponding Straps .
The Bandage thus contrived , and buckled on the Arm , resembled a Muffitie , and was wore with the greatest Convenience , keeping the Arm in a strait Direction , for four Months longer .
In the mean time , the Patient was made easy by the encourageing Hopes I gave her , that , after her Labour , the Oeconomy of Nature would be more immediately directed to the Recovery of the Use of her Arm .
And , indeed , so it turned out : For the Callus remained unconfirmed , her Arm useless , and at particular times painful , till within nine Days of her Delivery ; when , all on a sudden , she acquainted the Colonel , that her Arm was quite free from Pain , and had a very different Feeling from what it had before .
From that time , in less than a Month , the Callus was entirely confirmed , and the Patient recovered the Use of her Arm ; which , considering the oblique Direction of the Fracture , and the long-continued Softness of the Callus , has its natural Beauty and Straitness wonderfully preserved .
I know that a Woman 's Pregnancy is mentioned in general , by several Authors , as an Hindrance of the Callus being so soon confirmed as in other Circumstances .
But , except the two Cases mentioned by Turner , and taken from Hildanus , I do not remember to have read any History , where the usual Oeconomy of Nature , in restoring a fractured Bone , was so entirely , and for so long a Time , interrupted ; and where the Cause of such an Interruption appears so plain , as in the Case I have been here relating , ' ' &amp;c.

