XIII .
" Researches into the nature of the Involuntary Muscular Fibre .
" By GEORGE VINER , ELLIS , Esq. , Professor of Anatomy in University College , London .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 11 , 1856 , ( Abstract .
) Having been unable to confirm the statements of Professor Kolliker respecting the cell-structure of the involuntary muscular fibre , the author was induced to undertake a series of researches into the nature of that tissue , by which he has been led to entertain views as to its structure in vertebrate animals , but more especially in man , which are at variance with those now generally received .
The present communication contains the results of these inquiries , which tend to show that the voluntary and involuntary muscles resemble each other very closely in the arrangement and constitution of their fibres .
After adverting to the present state of opinion on the subject , the author gives an account of his own observations , and treats successively of the interweaving of the fibres , their size , form , and ultimate structure ; their mode of attachment at their extremities , their length , and the corpuscles connected with them .
He devotes a section also to the question of the periodic formation and destruction of muscular fibres in the uterus , in its different conditions ; and while he is led by his own investigations to recognize an enlargement in size of the individual fibres of that organ during pregnancy , followed by subsequent diminution , he is unable to confirm the doctrine of new formation .
Moreover , he finds that during pregnancy a considerable amount of granular matter , with round or oval granular-cells , is deposited among the fibres .
He adduces reasons for believing that this substance cannot be regarded as a blastema , nor its imbedded cells as formative cells , for the production of new fibres ; and he is disposed to ascribe the enlargement of the uterus in pregnancy principally to the enlargement of the muscular fibres , and the addition of this new deposit .
The following is a summary of the conclusions which the author has arrived at on the main subject of his inquiry : In both kinds of muscles , voluntary and involuntary , there is an interweaving of the fibres with the formation of meshes .
The fibres in both kinds are long , slender , rounded cords of uniform width , except at the ends , where they are fixed by tendinous tissue ; and in both , the size of the fibres in the same bundle varies greatly .
In neither voluntary nor involuntary muscle is the fibre of the nature of a cell , but in both is composed of minute threads or fibrils .
Its surface-appearance in both kinds of muscle allows of the supposition that in both it is constructed in a similar way , namely , of small particles or " sarcous elements , " and that a difference in the arrangement of these elements gives a dotted appearance to the involuntary and a transverse striation to the voluntary fibres .
The length of the fibres varies in both cases with the organ or part examined , and the connexion with tendon always takes place after the same manner , whether the fibre is dotted or striated .
On the addition of acetic acid , fusiform or rod-shaped corpuscles make their appearance in all muscular tissue ; these bodies , which appear to belong to the sheath of the fibre , approach nearest in their characters to the corpuscles belonging to the yellow or elastic fibres which pervade various other tissues ; and , from the apparent identity in nature of these corpuscles in the different textures in which they are found , and especially in voluntary as compared with involuntary muscle , it is scarcely conceivable that in the latter case exclusively they should be the nuclei of oblong cells constituting the proper muscular tissue .
The paper concludes with a statement of the mode of procedure which the author has found most suitable for examining the tissue which forms the subject of his inquiry .

