410 On a Compensated Micro-manometer .
By Bertrand J. P. Roberts .
( Communicated by Sir John I. Thornycroft , F.R.S. Received August 14 , \#151 ; Read November 8 , 1906 .
) The accompanying sketch shows a form of fluid-pressure gauge or micromanometer , intended for use as an anemometer and for the indication and measurement of small pressures.* To source erf pre\amp ; our difference .
/ C. index bubble Ratio : approximately 10 : 1 diameter of bores .
A design for a sensitive pressure gauge , or micro-manometer .
Anti-evaporative attachment for use with volatile fluids ; one should be connected in series with each side of the gauge\#151 ; only one shown .
A Woulff 's bottle with three necks would be a convenient substitute .
Cal .
chlor .
tube should be used also in case of hygroscopic fluid in gauge .
The two limbs A and A ' of a U-tube are connected by a tube of finer bore B , and this tube B contains an index bubble\#151 ; preferably of air , C , the bends at E form a trap , to prevent the accidental loss of the bubble .
The small separate part is an arrangement for preventing loss by evaporation in the case of volatile fluids\#151 ; it does not need description .
The sensitiveness of the gauge obviously depends on the ratio between the bores of the limbs and the connecting tube\#151 ; this is approximately 10 : 1 in the example shown ; also to some extent on the fluid employed in the gauge , and the fluid used should depend on the intended application and on the degree of sensitiveness desired .
* The feature in which this arrangement differs from Sir W. Siemens ' bathymeter is the compensation .
On a Compensated Micro-manometer .
The length of the index bubble C should be approximately equal to the distance between the centres of the limbs A , A ' ; it will then be found that the gauge is practically indifferent to changes of position or level , as the effect of the air bubble ( while in the lower horizontal tube ) will counteract the effect due to any change of level of the limbs A and A ' ; it is , of course , not possible to exactly compensate for this , as the length of the bubble will vary slightly with the temperature and the barometric pressure .
Any tendency to error in the readings from these two last-mentioned causes can be obviated by observing both ends of the index bubble : but , as it is not necessary to read very minutely , owing to the multiplying effect , this source of error can generally be neglected .
It is not advisable to employ a larger bore for the tube B than 2 mm. , and 1^ mm. is preferable , as the surface tension is insufficient ( with most fluids ) to prevent fluid from passing the air bubble in larger bores ; the limit to the smallness of the bore depends on the viscosity of the fluid and the rapidity of readings desired .
For the same reasons it is not practicable to use pure water as the working fluid , as owing to its high surface tension the zero point is very indefinite ; water can be used , however , if some substance , such as glycerine or calcium chloride , is added to lower the surface tension .
The writer cannot say definitely what is the limit of sensitiveness that can be reached\#151 ; this depends on the resistance offered by the surface tension and viscosity of the fluid to the motion of the index bubble\#151 ; making its movements very slow , so that in returning to zero it may take five minutes or more , with a very sensitive form\#151 ; using alcohol .
To reduce this effect as much as possible it is necessary to use either alcohol or ether ( and perhaps pentane ) for the most delicate results .
The air bubble acts practically as a piston , and no fluid can be seen to pass it at a normal rate of movement , but fluid can be caused to pass in a thin film if the bubble is forced to move rapidly .
There seems to be a critical speed\#151 ; for each size of bore and fluid\#151 ; above which the surface tension is unable to overcome the adhesion of the fluid , to the walls of the tube , quickly enough .
In connection with this I have noticed an interesting effect\#151 ; showing well the rapidity of the motion of fluid in the centre of tubes , and the almost stationary condition of the layer next the sides .
If a small bore\#151 ; say 2 mm.\#151 ; tube , similar to the gauge described above , and containing an air bubble , filled with uncoloured alcohol , be taken , and some coloured alcohol is added to one limb , then the air bubble moves at the average velocity of the fluid , but the coloured alcohol entering the tube will 412 Dr. Orme Masson and Mr. E. S. Richards .
[ June 25 , be seen to be drawn , or rather pushed , out in a long conical point , moving much more rapidly than the bubble , and eventually overtaking it and turning over ; the fluid at the sides will be still quite uncoloured until mixed by diffusion ; to a certain extent the effect is reversible , and the cone of coloured alcohol can be drawn back without mixing very much .
The device shown for preventing evaporation should be in duplicate , one to each limb ; only one is shown , as an example .
On the Hygroscopic Action of Cotton .
By Orme Masson , D.Sc .
, E.R.S. , and E. S. Richards , B.Sc. ( Received June 25 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) In an earlier paper by one of us* an account was given of the behaviour of dry cotton-wool when immersed in air saturated with water vapour , and the relation between the hygroscopic absorption and the change of temperature which the cotton manifests was investigated .
It was shown that , so long as the surrounding air is saturated , the absorption process appears to be unending , though its velocity continuously diminishes ; or , in other words , true equilibrium between such an atmosphere and cotton wool , however moist , appears to be impossible , just as it would be impossible between the same atmosphere and an aqueous solution , however dilute .
It was pointed out , however , that " if placed in an atmosphere containing water vapour at anything less than saturation pressure ( e.g. , in the open air ) the cotton would in time reach a state of equilibrium , either by absorption or by evaporation , according to its initial condition .
" As we could find no record of any complete investigation of such relationship , it seemed desirable to determine the amounts of vapour absorbed by a given quantity of cotton in atmospheres of various known degrees of humidity .
This has been done ; but it has been found necessary to determine the true equilibrium values by approaching them from both sides , by absorption and by evaporation , since neither process becomes really complete in any practicable time , though each leads in a few hours to what might be mistaken for true equilibrium .
Reference must here be made to the interesting work published by Clayton Beadle , in 1894 and 1895 , f which was unfortunately entirely * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , pp. 230\#151 ; 254 .
+ 'Nature , ' vol. 49 , p. 457 ; 'Chem .
News , ' vol. 71 , p. 1 ; vol. 73 , p. 180 .

