On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters Man .
153 Hapalidse , whereas a powerful anti-serum did produce a reaction , and proved what I may be permitted to call the " blood relationship " in the absence of a better expression .
Referring to the anti-serum for human blood , I may state that I have successfully produced it in rabbits by injections of old human pleuritic exudate preserved in a bottle with chloroform for five to six months .
Similarly , some old anti-diphtheritic horse serum preserved for two years and seven months in the laboratory by means of trikresol also yielded an anti-serum for horse blood .
The anti-sera produced in these cases was feebler than that which is produced by injections of fresh serum .
Dilutions of these old preserved fluids gave the characteristic reactions with their homologous anti-sera .
I have also found that the anti-sera may be preserved for months with chloroform , although there is no denying that they lose in power .
Anti-serum which had been preserved for over seven months in sealed capillary tubes-was likewise still effective , although less potent .
Through the kindness of Mr. Frank E. Beddard , F.R.S. , Prosector of the Zoological Society 's Gardens , and numerous friends , who are generously aiding me by sending blood-samples from various parts of the world , I am gradually gathering together considerable material for study .
Wherever possible the fluid sera are being sent me preserved with chloroform .
Dried sera , on the other hand , are sent on slips of pure filter-paper , upon which appropriate data are noted in pencil .
The results of the investigation indicate the necessity of not limiting the work to vertebrates alone , and many questions naturally suggest themselves , the solution of which may be attained by means of the biological test .
The assumption seems justified that we may , for instance , be able at some future date to determine chemical differences in the blood of the various races of man .
We no longer need to rely solely upon morphological characters for the differentiation of species .
It is impossible to enter into details concerning the nature of the reaction here described ; it is a subject for further study .
Suffice it to say that it is exceedingly complex , but at the same time the most delicate of tests known .
" On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters in Man .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received November , 2 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1901 .
( 1 .
) Mr. Francis Galton , in his ' Natural Inheritance , ' first , I believe , endeavoured to give a quantitative appreciation of the inheritance of the mental characters in man .
Mr. Galton 's data 154 Prof. K. Pearson .
were not very copious , and in default of a method of dealing quantitatively with characters not capable of exact scaling , it was not possible to deduce absolutely conclusive results .
Still Mr. Galton brought good evidence to show that temper and artistic instinct were inherited characters .
On November 19 , 1899 , a paper was read to the Royal Society showing how the inheritance of characters not capable of exact quantitative measurement might be deduced .
In that paper I dealt with Mr. Galton ?
s statistics , and showed that the fraternal correlation in the matter of temper was 0*3167 , and the parental correction in the matter of artistic instinct was 0*4039 .
These numbers are somewhat low and not altogether satisfactory .
I purpose in this preliminary notice to give only a few results from some very elabo-1 rate observations which have been made in the course of the last few years .
( 2 .
) The material was collected in two separate ways .
In the first series\#151 ; the Family Measurement Series\#151 ; only physical characters !
were observed .
This series was started six years ago , and upwards !
of 1100 families , father , mother , and not more than two sons and two !
daughters , were measured .
The series was closed two years ago , and | last year Dr. Alice Lee completed the reduction of this very large mass f of material .
In its reduced form seventy-eight correlation tables have 1 been formed , giving as many correlation coefficients bearing on direct 1 or cross heredity .
This is probably the most extensive series of inheri- 1 tance coefficients each based , as a rule , on upwards of 1000 pairs_____j which has yet been obtained .
My second series will be still more extensive ; but it relates only to j collateral\#151 ; fraternal\#151 ; heredity .
It aims at observing a wide range of 1 both physical and mental characters .in pairs of school children .
I j have received most kindly aid from a great number of masters and 1 mistresses in public schools , high schools , secondary and primary a schools of all classes .
This will be very fully acknowledged in the final j publication of the results .
But although the work has been in progress S for three years , we have still only material enough to draw conclu- j sions in the case of pairs of brothers , of whom more than 1000 cases 1 have been observed .
The work has been carried on with the assistance from the Govern- 1 meant Grant of a sum appropriated to this purpose in 1898 .
Without 1 this aid it would not have been possible for me to purchase the neces- j sary head-spanners or to circulate them among the schools .
( 3 .
) Only three of the physical measurements of this extensive ' series have yet been reduced , and the sister-sister and sister-brother j observations will have to be Carried on for another year or two before 1 they are sufficiently numerous .
The whole material will then require 1 two or three years for tabulation and calculation .
But as the problem i of the inheritance of the mental characters and their correlation On the Inheritance of the Mental Characters in Man .
155 with the physical Avas occupying our attention in another field , the indefatigable Dr. Lee undertook the tabulation and calculation of the coefficients of heredity in the case of seven mental and three physical characters for pairs of brothers .
The number of pairs dealt with in each case were 800 to 1000 .
The method adopted was that of the memoir on " The Inheritance of Characters not capable of Exact Quantitative Measurement."* Thus , under the heading Conscientiousness were two divisions , Keen and Dull , and the teacher might place a cross on either of these or on the dividing line .
Similar divisions occurred in the other categories , except that Intelligence was giv en six and Temper three subdivisions , \amp ; c. The collecting schedules will be fully described when the whole bulk of material is finally reduced ' and published .
My sole object in the present preliminary notice is to draw attention to the following results Coefficients of Collateral Heredity .
Correlation of Pairs of Brothers .
Physical Characters .
( Family Measurements .
) Stature ... ... ... ... ... . .
0 *510/ Forearm ... ... ... ... ... .
0*4912 Span .
... ... ... ... ... . .
0 '5494 Eye-colour ... ... ... ... . .
0*5169 ( School Observations .
) Cephalic index ... ... ... .
0 *4861 Hair-colour ... ... ... ... .
0 *5452 Health ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 *5203 Mean ... ... ... ... ... 9 *5171 Mental Characters .
( School Observations .
) Intelligence ... ... ... ... 0 *4559 Yivacity ... ... ... ... ... .
9 *4702 Conscientiousness ... ... 9 *5929 Popularity ... ... ... ... . .
9 * 5944 Temper ... ... ... ... ... ... 9 *5968 Self-consciousness ... . .
0*5915 Shyness ... ... ... ... ... .
9 *5281 Mean ... ... ... ... 0*5214 The physical characters were measured or observed on two entirely different groups of individuals\#151 ; in the one case , adults , in the other , children , were examined .
Both groups , however , give very like mean results , i.e. , 0*5170 and 0*5172 .
Dealing with the means for physical and mental characters we are forced to the perfectly definite conclusion : That the mental characters in man are inherited in precisely the same manner as the physical .
Our mental and moral nature is , quite as much as our physical nature , the outcome of hereditary factors .
The probable error of the coefficients given is about 0*02 at most ; the differences between the individual values and their significance will be fully considered in the final memoir .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 195 , pp. 79-150*

