276 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Jan. 26 , it were derived by interpolation from the wave-lengths of the ma^ne smm and iron lines .
The arc of a De Meritens machine taken in a crucible of magnesia gave us , when a current of steam was passed into the crucible , both the water spectrum and the metallic lines on the same plate .
The solar lines are marked in the figure in positions held by the corresponding iron lines .
These photographs were taken with prisms of Iceland Spar .
Hone of our photographs show any more refrangible rays produced by water within the limit of transparency of Iceland spar , i\e .
, below a wave-length of about 2200 .
III .
" An Attempt at af Complete Osteology of fhjpsilophodon Foxii , a British \yealden Dinosaur .
" By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received { January 16 , 1882 .
j ( Abstract .
) The author , after giving a list of papers on remains of this Dinosaur , by Professor Owen , Professor Huxley , and himself , and noticing the great want of a complete osteology which might serve as a type , describes in detail the skull , including the dentition , the vertebral column , shoulder-girdle , \#163 ; |nd hip-girdle with the limbs , and compares their structure with that , of other fossil and extant Sauropsida .
He maintains the generic distinctness of from Iguanodon as typified by I. Afantelli , considering that the very different structure of their hind feet is decisive* of this .
The paper embodies the results of dissections of parts of several skeletons , and it is illustrated by figures of all the bones described^ IV .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) Part Ilj\#151 ; Electrical Conductivity .
The temporary alteration of electrical conductivity which can be produced by longitudinal traction was measured for all the metal wires used in Part I , both in the hard-drawn and annealed condition , and , in addition , for carbon and nickel , by the following method : \#151 ; The wires were suspended in pairs of equal lengths in an air-chamber 4 feet in length and 4 finches inner diameter .
This vessel , which consisted of two concentric cylinders containing a layer of water

