I. " On the Calculus of Symbols , with Applications to the Theory of Differential Equations .
" By W. H. A. RUSSELL , A.B. Communicated by ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. Received December 20 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The calculus of generating functions , discovered by Laplace , was , as is well known , highly instrumental in calling the attention of mathematicians to the analogy which exists between differentials and powers .
This analogy was perceived at length to involve an essential identity , and several analysts devoted themselves to the improvement of the new methods of calculation which were thus called into existence .
For a long time the modes of combination assumed to exist between different classes of symbols were those of ordinary algebra ; and this sufficed for investigations respecting functions of differential coefficients and constants , and consequently for the integration of linear differential equations , with constant coefficients .
The laws of combination of ordinary algebraical symbols may be divided into the commutative and distributive laws ; and the number of symbols in the higher branches of mathematics , which are commutative with respect to one another , is very small .
It became then necessary to invent an algebra of non-commutativi symbols .
This important step was effected by Professor Boole , for certain classes of symbols , in his well-known and beautiful memoir published in the Transactions of this Society for the year 1844 ; and the object of the paper which I have now the honour to lay before the Society is to perfect and develope the methods there employed .
For this purpose I have constructed systems of multiplication and division for functions of non commutative symbols , subject to the same laws of combination as those assumed in Professor Boole 's memoir ; and I thus arrive at equations of great utility in the integration of linear differential equations with variable coefficients .
I then proceed to develope certain general theorems , which will , 1 hope , be found interesting .
I have applied the methods of multiplication , as just explained , to deduce theorems for non-commutative symbols analogous to the binomial and multinomial theorems of ordinary algebra .
Lastly , I have shown how to employ the equations deduced in the earlier part of this paper in the integration of linear differential equations .
I have , for this purpose , made use of methods closely resembling the method of divisors which has so long been used in resolving ordinary algebraical equations .
The whole paper will , I hope , be found to be a step upwards in the important subject of which it treats .
I shall just observe , that the symbolical combinations used in this paper may also be applied to the calculus of finite differences , as may be seen in Professor Boole 's memoir .

