280 The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
By W. M. Thornton , D.Sc .
, D.Eng .
, Professor of Electrical Engineering at Armstrong College , Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
( Communicated by Sir Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1911 .
) [ Plates 7\#151 ; 12 .
] 1 .
On exposing surface films of bacteria upon agar to the electric wind from charged needle points , with subsequent incubation , it is found that the wind from negatively charged points has more bactericidal effect than that from points positively charged .
In a recent paper* it was suggested that there should be this difference in consequence of the positive charge found to be associated with fresh vegetable cells , and further , that negatively charged air might prove useful in the treatment of tuberculous disease of the lung by retarding the growth of the bacteria .
Before attempting direct trial of the latter point it was necessary to show that negative electric charge does inhibit bacterial growth in general under laboratory conditions of culture , and the present work was undertaken for this purpose .
2 .
The most suitable method of ionising air on a large scale either positively or negatively is by unidirectional point discharge at high potential .
The voltage gradient should be such that no sparks pass , but that a faint blue glow is seen at each point , indicating the space in which most of the ionisation is taking place .
The glow at the negative point is larger than that at the positive , and begins at a lower pressure .
In either case ions of the same sign as that of the point are repelled , causing the electric wind .
This was , with the pressures used in the present case , perceptible on the palm of the hand at a distance of about 10 cm .
The discharge can take place into free air , and the circuital flow is then completed either by diffusion of the ions to oppositely charged surfaces which are under the influence of the electrostatic machine used , or by recombination in the air .
The latter is known to occur very rapidly in certain cases .
In order , therefore , to expose the germs to a continuous and even wind for long periods , it was necessary to keep the machine running , and at the same speed , for the whole time of exposure .
3 .
The first arrangement of discharging points , that used in obtaining the results in figs. 7 to 10 ( Plates 7 and 8 ) , is shown in fig. 1 .
Two bell-jars , * " On the Opposite Electrification produced by Animal and Yegetable Life , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1910 , vol. 82 .
The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
5 inches diameter and 10 inches long , with stoppered openings at the top , were supported on ebonite and glass insulators .
The discharging points , three fine steel sewing needles , were attached to a copper wire passing through the stopper to an electrostatic machine , one of the jars being connected in this way to the positive terminal , the other to the negative .
The opposite pole in each case was connected by a wire entering through a central hole in the base plate to a thin metal disc , upon which was placed , a Petrie dish containing agar sown upon the surface with an emulsion in water of the organism to be exposed .
The distance of the points from the agar was in no case less than a centimetre .
3ig.2 Fig. 1.\#151 ; Discharging points in separate vessels . .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Discharging points over the same plate .
The glow at the points could just be seen in diffused daylight .
The photograph of fig. 3 ( see at bottom of Play 12 ) , taken with the needles illuminated by a Nernst projector lamp , shows the proportions of the group and the volume of the negative glow in each case .
From the photomicrograph ( fig. 4 ) the negative glow starts as a regular cone , drawn here to one side by the proximity of the positive pole , and the positive glow ( fig. 5 ) appears on the side of the needle , in this case sharpened by affile cut .
The former has a vertical angle of 135 ' , converging upon a point about 045 mm. outside of the surface of the needle .
The radial length of the glow is 040 mm. , and its volume about 0 90 cu .
mm. The positive glow is irregular and extended over a larger area on the needle than the negative , though the luminous volume is only about one-half that of the latter .
With the arrangement shown in fig. 2 the current was 44 micro-amperes in both the positive and negative leads .
At the negative pole the rate of ionisation , assumed to all take place in the Y 2 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ June 20 , glow , is from the above figures 3 x 1018 charges , each of the magnitude \lt ; 4-6 x 10~10 E.S.U. ) , per cubic millimetre per second .
The photograph ( fig. 6 ) shows a faint luminous line proceeding straight outwards from each of the positive points , distinct from the ordinary visible glow .
This is only found after long exposure\#151 ; three-quarters of an hour\#151 ; of the photographic plate .
It is possible that this is the space in which negative ions are produced and receive inward acceleration in positive point discharge .
Some of these would be , no doubt , carried away by the positive wind , and this might account for the presence of negative ions in positive point discharge observed by C. T. R. Wilson and by N. R. Campbell .
The luminosity may also be from ionisation produced by " Entladungstrahlen."* No such line is to be seen at the negative poles .
The length is here 8 mm. At both poles there is a bright luminous patch on the surface of the metal , but at the positive point there is also some scintillation , possibly due to the negative bombardment , which is not seen at the negative point .
The voltage used was not directly measured , but gave sparks 2 to 2*5 mm. long between 1*5 cm .
diameter brass discharge knobs .
On open circuit , that is , with the needle points disconnected , the machine gave 1*5 cm .
sparks , running at the same speed as before .
4 .
The second arrangement of discharging points , that used in obtaining figs. 11 to 15 ( Plates 9 and 10 ) , differed only from the first in having both positive and negative points brought into the same jar , as in fig. 2 .
The needle points emerged 2 mm. from the leading-in glass tubes , and were directed to positions on the plates 2 cm .
centre to centre .
The stand holding the exposed plate was supported by a sulphur rod , attached to an ebonite base-plate .
The leak to earth other than from point to point was exceedingly small .
The object of having both points over the same culture was to obtain comparison of exposures in which the current passing was the same for both .
The outer part of the agar surface provided a control , which for short exposures may be taken as unexposed , though in certain cases with prolonged exposure the whole plate is cleared .
With the two points discharging on to the same surface the action was much stronger than in the first arrangement .
5 .
Of the organisms exposed in the first way ( fig. 1 ) photographs of typical exposures are given of B. anthB .
lutea , Pneumococcus ; and in the second ( fig. 2 ) of B. coli , B. B. typhosus , B. asiaticce cholerce , B. dysenterica Shiga .
These were all fresh , active growths , though most of them had been often sub-cultured .
It was found that there was a marked difference between the sensitiveness * Vide Sir J. J. Thomson , " Conduction of Electricity through Gases , " SS 242 and 310 .
lilt 16 ] Uj He 'M 1911 .
] The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
of the bacteria examined .
On account of the use made by previous experimenters of B. anthracis , B. typhosus , and B. communis , these were used in determining the best conditions of exposure .
In fig. 7 ( Plate 7 ) the organism is anthrax exposed for 20 minutes , 10 minutes ' exposure failing to show any effect .
The colonies in the control are large and uniformly distributed .
In the central ( positive ) plate they are cleared opposite two points , the third has missed fire .
In the negative plate the cleared areas are somewhat larger and the colonies fewer .
In fig. 8 the exposure was for 30 minutes , and the influence of time and of difference of sign of charge is now unmistakable .
The positive plate is well cleared , the negative contains one colony only , and at a corner where the wind is least likely to have taken effect .
In fig. 9 ( Plate 8 ) with 50 minutes ' exposure of a dense sowing the positive plate shows little growth , and on the negative there is one colony .
Many hours ' exposure are necessary to completely sterilise the plates with certainty in this way .
Fig. 10 is of Pneumococcus , 1 hour 10 minutes ' exposure .
From a very dense sowing only about a dozen colonies developed on the positive plate and a few rudimentary ones on the negative .
In the case of B. pyocyaneus , exposed as in fig. 1 , the negative plate was entirely cleared in two and a-half hours , the positive about one-half .
The control showed a dense growth .
This may be regarded as a sensitive organism , though not to the same degree as B. asiaticce cholerce , given later .
Sarcina luteci , exposed for two and a-half hours , gave nearly as many colonies on the positive plate as on the control , the negative having only a few small ones .
6 .
On account partly of the long time sometimes taken to produce a distinctive difference , the arrangement was changed to that shown at fig. 2 .
The first exposure of B. coli communis was for 18 hours .
On examining the dish it was found that the discharge had dried the jelly , forming two shallow pits , the smaller caused by the positive discharge , the larger by the negative .
The angle of the positive cone was one-half that of the negative .
The B. coli communis series is given in fig. 11 ( Plate 9 ) , fig. 13 ( Plate 10 ) , and fig. 18 ( Plate 11 ) , the exposures in Plate 9 being 1\#163 ; , 4^ , and 18 hours respectively .
A good deal is cleared in the first , all but a small patch in the bottom corner of the second , and the third entirely so .
Fig. 12 is of B. typhosus , the times of exposure being 1 hour , \#163 ; hour , and hours .
There is a trace of clearing in the ^-hour plate , none at the positive in 1 hour , though a good deal at the negative , and in 1\ hours an almost clear plate .
284 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ June 20 , The two upper photographs , fig. 13 ( Plate 10 ) are of communis , the right hand exposed for 1 hour , the left for | hour , in the latter of which the signs of clearing are slight .
The organism most sensitive to the point discharge of any so far examined is B. asiaticce choleras , two exposures of which are given in fig. 14 ( Plate 10 ) , that to the left having been exposed for a quarter of an hour , that to the right for half an hour .
This bacterium is also sensitive to light , dying out in a few days in diffused daylight .
In the case of B. dysenterica Shiga , fig. 15 ( Plate 10 ) , half an hour had little or no effect , the whole surface being covered with fine densely packed colonies .
In an hour , however , most of the plate was cleared .
This and the above result with B. asiaticce choleras may be compared with the observation of Buchner , that the growth of B. typhosus is prevented by exposing a freshly-sown culture for an hour to full sunlight .
From the above results it may be concluded that : ( 1 ) air ionised by either positive or negative point discharge has a strong bactericidal action ; ( 2 ) the negative discharge is much more effective than the positive for short exposures , though the result after many hours ' exposure is nearly the same for both .
It is possible that some part of the bactericidal action of the positive wind is owing to negative ions produced at the positive point .
7 .
Since oxygen is electro-negative and ozone is known to be produced by electrical discharge , the electric wind was examined for ozone by paper which had been moistened with a solution in alcohol of tetra-methyl-^x-diamido-diphenyl-methane.* This has the property of turning violet in the presence ozone , yellow with nitric oxide .
On exposure to the discharge arranged as in fig. 2 , it was found that ozone was produced at the negative point and to a much less degree at the positive .
There was no yellow coloration , though the paper dried a purplish brown .
The presence of ozone in the wind suggested the possibility that the bactericidal action might only be indirectly the result of ionisation , that the well-known sterilising influence of ozone ( whatever the ultimate cause of that may be ) might explain the , facts equally well .
To decide this , exposures were made in nitrogen and pure hydrogen* The former was , however , found to contain 0\3 per cent , of oxygen , and since nitrogen when mixed with oxygen even in small quantities cannot be regarded as quite inert , the result given in fig. 20 , obtained in it using typhosus , is chiefly of interest in showing that the effect is of the same order of magnitude as in hydrogen and air .
In the case of hydrogen the bell-jars were well exhausted and filled with the gas several times before exposure , withq the * See Fischer ' and Braemar , " On the Production of Ozone by Ultra-violet Light , 1 Ber .
, ' 1905 , vol. 38 , No. 3 , p. 2633 .
1911 .
] The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
Petrie dishes in position containing the bacteria .
The photographs of Plate 11 of B. ctsiaticce cholerce , fig. 16 ; B. typhosus , fig. 17 ; and B. coli communis , fig. 18 ; in hydrogen , with the discharging point arranged as in fig. 19 , show that the sterilising influence of the negative discharge is somewhat greater in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure than in nitrogen or , by comparison with the previous results , than in air , owing possibly to the greater velocity and range of ions in hydrogen .
It would , however , appear that in these cases the nature of the gas is not of the first importance , and that it is the presence of the electrical charge which is the chief inhibiting cause .
The criticism having been made that water-vapour from the surface of the agar might give rise to the formation of hydrogen peroxide in the glow , trials PosiNve Fig. 19.\#151 ; Discharge point in tube .
were made with the exposure vessel arranged as in fig. 19 .
The wire to which the discharging needle is soldered is led down a glass tube through which a stream of the gas to be used is slowly passed .
The needle is held in a central position by a glass bead b , and the gas , ionised by the discharge , is blown gently upon the agar surface sown with bacteria .
The Petrie dish rests on a metal plate connected to the positive pole .
There is no possibility of water-vapour reaching the needle point , and the arrangement is very convenient for the examination of the effect of ionised gases on surface cultures .
In operation the outlet from the jar was first sealed with paraffin wax and the Prof. W. M. Thornton .
[ June 20 , vessel exhausted and filled several times with hydrogen passed through sulphuric acid and tubes of soda-lime .
An opening was then made by passing a hot wire through the wax , and a continuous stream of gas sent past the electrified needle from a cylinder of hydrogen .
Fig. 18 ( Plate 11 ) shows the result of exposing plates of Conradi and Drigalski litmus lactose medium sown with B. coli communis , which were before exposure inverted and dried in a warm chamber to fix the emulsion on the surface .
The jet of hydrogen without ionisation was passed for three-quarters of an hour over one plate , which was then removed .
The electrostatic machine was then started and the other plate exposed for the same time to the same stream of hydrogen , now negatively ionised .
The influence of the electrification is marked , the area beneath the nozzle being quite cleared .
This experiment is also of interest in showing that pure dry hydrogen has no inhibiting effect on bacterial growth .
The conditions in this test were the most stringent that could be devised .
The surface of the agar was firm and dry and the time of exposure short for so insensitive an organism as B. coli communis .
The plate may be compared with fig. 13 , where the exposures were for half and one hour using the same bacillus .
The exposures in nitrogen and hydrogen were made in the Pathological Laboratory of the University of Durham College of Medicine , under the direction of Professor Hutchens , to whom , with his colleague , Dr. P. Laws , the author is gratefully indebted .
8 .
When bacteria are killed by any physical or chemical agency it is generally accepted to be in consequence of the coagulation of protoplasm .
In the present case there are two immediate possibilities , apart from direct electrical action , by which this might be achieved .
The effect may be due to the influence of ultra-violet light from the glow , or the mechanical bombardment by the wind might be sufficient to produce inhibition of growth such as is known to be caused by mechanical vibration .
To put the first to the test a piece of optical quartz , 2-4 cm .
square by 1 mm. thick , was laid on the surface of the agar , which had previously been sown with a strong emulsion of B. asiaticce cholerceas a sensitive indicator .
The dish was then exposed for half an hour in such a position that the negative needle point was central with the quartz square and at 1 cm .
above it .
The positive point was then about l-5 cm .
from the edge of the square .
At the end of the exposure the quartz was removed , care being taken to prevent liquid from the edges flooding into the space occupied , though some unavoidably ran over the space under the positive needle .
The result on incubation is given on the right of fig. 21 .
The growth on the part covered by the quartz is denser than elsewhere , the space around showing evident signs of clearing .
1911 .
] The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
It may then be concluded that the bactericidal effects observed in the photographs are not due to the influence of ultra-violet light , bactericidal rays of which would freely penetrate the thickness of air and quartz used .
In order next to shield the organisms from the direct wind by interposing a stout membrane between the point and the agar , a plate was prepared and sown upon which a cigarette paper was laid moistened with the emulsion .
The discharging points were arranged to be on the centre line of the paper , and the exposure was , as before , half an hour .
The effect , also given in fig. 21 , shows that the negative discharge penetrates the moist paper , though it is not so active as without the paper .
This result , that the destructive influence can penetrate a membrane like wet paper in contact with bacteria , is of importance in showing that the electrical charge of ionised air may be expected to pass through lung membranes into the blood .
There is , however , in the present case a third possibility , that the action is not caused by the ions carried with the electric wind but by some penetrating radiation independent of it .
To test this a light wire frame was made to hold a cigarette paper , dry or moistened as before , 3 mm. horizontally above the surface of the agar , which had been sown as usual .
The result was that there were no cleared areas under the points .
The whole effect may therefore be attributed to the direct influence of , and contact with , ions in the electric wind .
9 .
It was shown in the previous paper that both red corpuscles and leucocytes have a strong negative charge .
On the other hand , fresh bacteria have a charge positive in sign and of the same order mass for mass as that of the blood cells .
The chief function of leucocytes is known to be that of absorbing bacteria from the blood .
Their thin walls are easily pierced , but the origin of the force necessary for this to take place has not been located .
The general conception of chemiotaxis , covering all movement in response to chemical stimulus , has been the closest approximation .
It is now suggested that the initial stimulus to the process of absorption may be more simply explained by the attraction of the positively charged bacteria by the large negatively charged leucocytes .
In the case of fresh blood cells the electrical charges are very fixed and characteristic , as shown by the rapid and uniform movement of the cells in strong electric fields .
The charge of bacteria , however , invariably reverses when the culture is kept for several days.* ' The negative chemiotaxis described by Bordetf would then have to be * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1910 , vol. 82 , p. 641 .
t J. Bordet , " Studies on the Serum of Vaccinated Animals , " ' Annals de la Societe Royale des Sciences medicales et not .
de Bruxelles , ' 1895 , vol. 4 .
288 The Influence of Ionised Air on Bacteria .
interpreted by some such reversal occurring normally in the infected animal , on account of changes in the blood serum or peritoneal fluid .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 7 .
Fig. 7 \#151 ; B. anthracis.20 minutes ' exposure .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; B. anthracis .
30 minutes ' exposure .
Plate 8 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; B. anthracis .
50 minutes ' exposure .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Pneumococcus .
70 minutes ' exposure .
Plate 9 .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; B.coli communis .
1|- , 41 , and 18 hours ' exposure .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; B. typhosus .
1 hour and 2 } hours ' exposure .
Plate 10 .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; B. coli communis .
1 hour and 1 hour 's exposure .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; B. asiaticce cholerce .
J hour and -1 hour 's exposure .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; B. dysentericaShiga .
| hour and 1 hour 's exposure .
Plate 11 .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; B. asiaticce cholerce in hydrogen .
1 hour 's exposure .
Fig. 17.\#151 ; B. typhosus in hydrogen .
1 hour 's exposure .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; B. coli communis in hydrogen .
1 hour 's exposure .
Plate 12 .
Figs. 3 , 4 , 5.\#151 ; Point discharge .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Streamers in positive point discharge .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; B.typhosus in nitrogen .
Top .
Fig. 21.\#151 ; B. asiaticce cholerce under quartz and paper .
Bottom .
i ' .orntou .
Boy .
Sor .
Proc. B , \lt ; 9/ , PL J. Fig. 7 .
B. Anthracis , 20 mins .
Control .
Fig. 8 .
B. Anthracis , 30 mins .
Control , Negative .
Negative .
ornton .
FIG. 9 .
B. Anthracis , 50 mins .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , , PI .
8 .
Fig. 1 0 .
Pneumococcus .
70 mins .
hirntoii .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. 84. .
PI .
9- Fig. 1 1 .
B. Coli Communis .
Fig. 1 7 .
B. Typhosus .
Exposed as in Plate 8 .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , 84 .
, PI .
Fig. 1 3 .
B. Coli Communis .
B. Fig. 1 5 .
B. Dvsenterica , Shiga .
1 hour .
yfyitou .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , PI .
11 .

