On the progressive Compression of Water by high Degrees of Force , with some Trials of its Effects on other Fluids .
By J. Perkins .
Communicated byW .
H. Wollaston , iM .
D. V.P.R.S. Miay 25 .
Read June 15 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 541 .
] Mr. Perkins first describes the machine which he employed in his experiments .
It consisted of a cylinder of gun-metal , 34 inches long and 13external diameter , having an internal cavity 29 inches long and 1inch diameter ; into the upper part of which is screwed a steel pump , .
8-Iinches long and 1inch external diameter , and -s ths externally .
The pump has a valve opening inwards at its lower extremity , and a conical enlargement at the top , and the piston is rendered water-tight without stuffing .
A lever apparatus is properly annexed , for the purpose of measuring pressure ; and is so adjusted , that the number of pounds pressing on its piston indicates directly the number of atmospheres used for compression .
The author next describes the piezometer which he employed in measuring the compression valve , consisting of a tube of water inserted in quicksilver , the contracted part of which tube contained a small steel disk , having a hair spring attached to it to keep it in its position when pressed up .
The piezometer , properly arranged , was then placed in the receiver of the compressor , filled with water at 50 ?
, the pump screwed into its place ; and as soon as the intended pressure had been effected , the piezometer was examined , and the indicating spring was always found more or less raised in the tube , according to the power employed .
Mr. Perliins states that water , under a pressure of 2000 atmospheres , compressed in a tube eight inches long , was diminished one twelfth of its length ; and has annexed to his paper a table , showing in inches and parts the compression of a column of 190 inches of water , corresponding to every 10 atmospheres to 1000 inclusive .
The author found that acetic acid crystallized under a pressure of 1100 atmospheres ; that under a pressure of 500 atmospheres water took up its volume ( ?
) of air , none of which was again given out on removing the pressure ; that air , under a pressure of 1200 atmo-spheres , became a limpid liquid ( permanent ?
) ; and that carburetted hydrogen was entirely liquefied under the same pressure .

