]\gt ; January 31 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks dered them .
Pursuant to notice Anton De Bary , Carl Gegenbaur , Leopold Kronecker , Rudolph Virchow , and Gustav Wiedemann were several ] balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read : :I .
" " Determination of the ical and Lateral Pressures of ranula Substances By ISAAC ROBERTS , F.G.S. , F.B.A.S. Communicated by J. F. } , F.R.b. Received November PART I.\mdash ; Wheat and Peas .
The investigations which I have the honour to submit in this communication have been undel.taken to furnish data to engineers and others who are concerned with the erection of structures which have 10 sustain pressure upon fioors and retaining walls , and also to further the objects of science in a field that is believed to be new .
Store-houses have been erected , both in this country and in America , which consist of lectangular cells , called bins , and are filled with grain to a height of 50 feet and upwards above the ground .
Diligent inquiries have been made for any data or rules by which the necessary strength of the walls and floors of such could be computed , or , for instance , what would be the vertical and lateral pressure of a column , say of wheat , 14 feet squale at its base and top , and 60 feet height .
It was generally assumed to be something less than the pressure of a similar column of water , but how much less did not appear to be known either in England or America .
Last year I made experiments to obtain data , by employing models of square and hexagonal bins , particulars of which were communioated in a paper read in Section , at the meeting of the British Association .
the Advancement of Science , held at Southampton .
I give briefiy , in tabular form , the resuIts .
Mr. I. berts .
Table of the ResuIts of Experiments made to ascertain the Pressure of Wheat stored in ells or Bins .
It will be observed that all pressure upon the bottom ceases in each cell , at a point not exceeding in height two diameters of its inscribed circle .
In the 7-inch square cell , the pressure ceases at the height of 11 inches .
In the 7-inch hexagonal cell , it ceases at the height of inches .
In the 12-inch hexagonal cell , it ceases at the height of 24 inches , and in the -inch hexagonal cell , it ceases at the height of 36 inches .
So the eighty trials which were made with the four cells clearly to one conclusion , namely , that in any has parallel sides , the pressure of wheat upon the bottom ceases when it is charged up twice the of its inscribed circle .
The weight of a cubic foot of wheat when filled loosely is 49 lbs. , and the weight when shaken and pressed into the measure is With these data , and those in the foregoing Table , we may determine the pressure-figure , or form , which the wheat assumes the cell .
Let us take the 12-inch hexagonal cell as the type .
Its area , is equal to square inches .
All pressure upon the bottom ceased when the wheat was 24 inches in height , and the mean pressure upon the bottom then was 48 lbs. , which is very nearly the weight of 1 foot of wheat when loosely filled .
Then square ches inches cubic inches , but the pressure was only equal cubic inches of wheab ( 1 cubic foot ) and , therefore , the must be some figure containing approximately 1728 cubic inches of wheat .
We have three dimensions of the figure ascertained by experiment , namely , the area of its base , its height , and its cubical capacity , or , .
the base , 24 ins .
the height , and cubic inches the capacity .
The figure that meets these conditions is parabolic , and I suggest the following formuIa to determine its cubical capacity and pressure upon any given area : Let area of cell in feeb .
diameter of inscribed circle in feet .
constant determined by experiment .
weight of wheat in pounds per cubic foot .
pressure upon the bottom of cell in pounds .
If we apply this formula to the cell now under consideration , we ; or lbs. The actual pressure was ascertained by weighing to be 481bs .
, and this was the total meall pressure upon the bottom of the cell , though it was filled with wheat that weighed lbs. I now know , and will give the particulars later on , that if this cell had been lengthened to 60 ft. or any other height , the pressure upon the bottom would not have exceeded 48 lbs. The investigations could not be considered conclusive if left at this stage , since they in a remarkable manner appeared to be contradictory to all our generally received knowledge of the laws governing the flow and pressure of fluids .
It was also reasonable to doubt their reliability if applied on a large scale , notwithstanding their close agreement with each other in all the experimental cells .
Besides , there was no evidence furnished by the experiments to show what pressure the sides of the cells would have to sustain , although it might be inferred that the side pressure upon a unit of surfaee , would be less than that upon a similar unit of bottom surface , bub how much less , if any , was not indicated .
I therefore decided to try the expements on a large scale , and to include in them determinations both of the vertical and lateral pressures .
These I now proceed to describe .
Mr. Paul , the well-known corn-merchant of Liverpoo ] , at the sllgtion of Mr. Grayson , architect ( both of whom took great interesl in the inquiry ) , placed at my disposal part of a warehouse at the Duke 's Dock , together with the use of grain , men , and machinery for manipulating with .
In one corner of the warehouse I constructed a rectangular bin , two sides of which were formed with spruce deal planks , 8 inches in thickness , placed on end , so that they were supported only at the level of each floor , and had a clear bearing in the ground storey , of 9 .
The other two sides of the bin were the walls of tho warehouse .
On plan the bin measured internally 6 ins .
by 6 in .
, and 52 ins .
in height , and it contained when filled 2112 cubic feet of wheat , weighing 111 , The weighing apparatus consisted of two graduated levers , one for weighing the , and the other for the lateral pressures .
applied to the machine .
I now proceed to describe the thods o weighing .
forced tbrough train beans ojack , Beneath tpening aaced which cdofTthhee bwoarehouse , pening 3feet square w withdrawn from beneath the grain by means of ropes and pulley .
blocks as might be required .
Beneath this slide were grooves which a frame could be inserted , and when so placed it would be centric with the 3-ft .
apel'ture already described in the bottom the bin .
Three frames were made to fit into these grooves , with apertures of 1 .
by 1 .
by 2 , and 3 .
by 3 ft. respectively .
Beneath amy one of the apertures when placed in position in the grooves , was the board which formed the top of the weighingmachine , and the arrangements were such that a column of grain measuring 1 , or 9 .
superficial area , and of any , up to ins .
, could at any time be weighed upon the lever ofl the machine , without the necessity of emptying the to insert the aperture frames after each weighing had been completed .
It was also necessary , in order to insure accuracy , that all pressuoe should be taken off the before proceeding with each sucoessive weighing , and these oonditions were attained by opening and closing the slides in manner already referred to .
The weighings of the lateral pressures were accomplished in manner slightly different from those of the bottom or vertical .
The lever of the machine was placed at right angles with the side of tho bin , in the way shown on the figure .
The pressure-receiving top of the machine , and its bracket , were suspended by a chain from their common centre of gravity , and when placed in their position for weighing , they just touched ( without exerting any pressure ) the knife-edged fulcrae of the lever , and a pressure equal to less than one ponnd weight would always be indicated by the lever rising off its rest .
Three apertures of the respective areas of 1 , and 9 mination of Pressures of Granular Substances .
229 . .
employed in weighing the side pressures , and the slide rdmitting and stoppipg the grain between the weighing-machine and bin was similar to that described for bottom pressure , only that ran on edge instead of horizontally .
The details are shown on ignre adopted in weighing both the vertical and lateral ressures the following : On three sides of the bin , painted gauge oards were affixed and marked in feet , and each foot was subdivided into spaces of 3 inches .
These boards extended from the of the lweighing-machines to the top of the bin , and tne quantity of grain which I desired to weigh was put into the bin and carefully levelled at desired height , by the aid of these marks .
Then three or more were taken at that level .
Afterwards the height of the / grain in the bin was increased to the next desired , and then ' Ievelled and weighed three times , or more , and so on , stage by stage , .
until was filled .
Before the grain was allowed to come in contact with the weighingmachines , care was taken always to place an excess of weight upon levers , and this was reduced to indicate the pressure by moving the sliding weight by means of the cord along the graduated edge of 1 ' the lever .
The reduction of the weight on the weighing-machine 1 was therefore steady and gradual .
I had not proceeded far with the process of weighing , when I observed a constantly recurring stiffness in the rising of the levers off their rests .
They would rise , say one-fiftieth of an inch off the rest , and there remain for an indefinite length of time without the least forther movement ; but as llb .
weight after another was removed off the lever , it gradually rose until the balance was finally overcome , when the lever would rise and touch the check which prevented further motion upwards .
The difference between the first movement and the final rise of the lever frequently equalled one-half the whole essure .
This condition invariably accompanied every weighing .
The machines were carefully examined , but no fauIt lay there , and I infer that the diflerence here referred to represents the elastic force of grain when it is subject to pressure , and that this elastic force expends itself before the mass of the grain comes into the state of mobility .
In the following tables , which contain the results of each reliable ' weighing which was made , I distinguish between the first small move1 meant of the lever and the final movement which represents the grain 1 in motion , by the words Dormant and Active lres .
I call the I pressure dormunt when the lever has been lifted off its rest to the 1 extent that a heam of light can be seen between the lever and its rest ; and the pressure active , when the lever bas risen about threefourths of an inch above its rest up to the check .
Table II.\mdash ; Weighings of the Bottom or Vertical Pressures of Wheat .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
, Determination of Pressures of Granular Substances .
231 'fable III.\mdash ; Weighings of the Bottom or Vertical Pressures of Wheat .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square foot .
Table \mdash ; Weighings of the Side or Lateral Pressures of Wheat .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
Note.\mdash ; In all the weighings of side pressures the height of the wheat in the bin is measured from the lower edge of the apertures respectively .
VOL. XXXVI .
Mr. .
Roberts .
Table Weighings of the Side or Lateral Pressures of Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
Table \mdash ; Weighings of the Side or Lateral Pressures of Wheat .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square foot .
Determination of Pressures of Granular Substances .
233 able VIL\mdash ; Weighings of the Bottom or Vertical Pressures of Peas .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
pressure inPeas 4 Table VIII.\mdash ; Weighings of the Bottom or Vertical Pressures of Peas .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
MeanDormantpeas 8Peas 4 Table IX.\mdash ; Weighings of the Side or Lateral Pressures of Peas .
Size of the Aperture used in .
in .
square feet .
In the experiments made with the model bins , which have already referred to , the bottom of the model was formed by a loose board , which rested upon an ordinary weighing-machine , and it only just touched the lower edges of the boards forming the sides .
The weights were removed a pound at a time off the machine , and the pressure of the wheat was indicated by the bottom falling away , and the wheat consequently running out ; but in the large bin the bottom measured 6 .
by 6 in .
, and therefore it was not practicablo to weigh the whole of the pressure upon the bottom in the manner adopted with the models .
I therefore decided to weigh columns of grain within the bin , having a base of 9 , and 1 square foot respectively .
These columns were formed of the mass of the grain contained within the bin , and being coincident with its centre , were not subject to any friction against the sides , but only to the friction amongst the particles of the grain .
Referring now to Table I , it deals with a column of wheat having base area of 9 square feet .
The mean dormant pressure when 6 .
in height was .
; when 8 .
in height it was .
; when 8 .
in height it was .
; and when .
in height it was only .
One of the weighings at 6 .
in height showed the pressure to be .
; but the est pressure indi cated with the height or head of .
was only The active pressure is in every case less at the height of than it is at any height below that .
At 6 .
it reached ; but at .
it did not exceed The actual weight of the column of wheat that indicated pressures was , in the case of 6 .
in height , in .
in .
in the case of .
in height , 24 , in .
Determination of essures of Granular Substances .
235 In Table II the column of wheat had a bottom area of 4 square , and with the height of .
would weigh 10,971 lbs. in .
ins .
; but the mean pressure the bottom was only , whilst at only 4 .
in height the dormant pressure was The active pressure , as will be seen in this table also , is less when the alumn of wheat is .
in height than it is at any lower level .
In Table III the aperture had an area of 1 square foot , and the colnmn of wheat .
in height , indicated a mean dormant of 216 lbs. , and in each weighing an active pressure of only 50 lbs. , even at the height of 2 , this amount of active pressure was indicated .
The total weight of a column of wheat 1 foot square and .
in height would be 2742 lbs. , but the maximum dormant pressure did not exceed 229 lbs. , and the pressure was only .
If now we formulate the results obtained and recorded in Tables I , II , and III in terms of those obtained by the model bins already referred to , we have : \mdash ; area of column of wheat in square feet .
diameter of inscribed circle in feet .
constant determined by experiment .
weight of wheat in pounds per foot .
pressure upon the bottom .
is found to be variable within certain limits .
With the aperture of 9 square feet , according to Table I , it is .
With the aperture of 4 square feet , according to Table IT , it is , and with the aperture of 1 square foot , according to Table III , it is It , therefore , appears that the apex of the paraboloid which represents the pressure upon 1 square foot area at the centre of a bin full of wheat , is higher relatively with its inscribed circle , than it is relatively with the inscribed circle which has its diameter equal to the bottom of the bin .
We shall now proceed to consider the lateral or side pressures , and by referring to Tables , and , it will be seen that in of the weighings , irrespective of the height of the wheat in the bin , there is a dormant and an active pressure both considerably less than the corresponding vertical pressure .
With the aperture of 9 square feet the maximum dormant pressure of 385 lbs. was attained the height of 7 ft. 3 .
above the lower edge of the aperture , and at the height of 45 in .
the maximum pressure was 3671bs .
With the aperture of 4 square feet the maximum dormant pressure was , at the height of 45 .
and at the height of 6 ins .
pressure reached 1 ?
0 lbs. With the aperture of 1 square foot the maximum dormant pressure at 44 .
in height was With the aperture of 2 by , and the wheat only 2 .
in height , that is to say , level with the top edge of the aperture , the dormant pressure was 96 lbs. , and when a man whose weight was 170 lbs. stood upon the wheat , close to the aperture , the pressure was being am increase of .
only beyond the pressure of the wheat without the man .
It therefore appears by the weighings of the lateral given in the Tables , that in no case is the maximum dormant pressure in a bin measuring 6 .
by 6 .
on plan , and 45 .
in the dimensions we shall have in .
lbs. lbs. , the pressnre upon the btiom .
The side pressure will be the superficial area in feet of the inside of the walls of the multiplied by 43 lbs. , or , 25 lbs. lbs. , the pressure on the four sides .
I adopt43 lbs. , the constant of pressure as shown by the weighings with the 9 square feet aperture , in this calculation , for the reason that it more closeIy approximates the size of the bin than the smaller apertures do .
The difference between the sum of the vertical and lateral pressures and the whole of the weight of the wheat contained in the bin would be 42 , , and this wouId represe1lt the friction of the wheat against the sides .
This frictional pressure added to the lateral pressure would represent the weight sustained by the side walls .
The wheat is formed into an elastic plug , fitting closely to the shape of the bin , and each grain is held in sensitive equilibrium by the resultants of the vertical , lateral , and resistances .
If a slide valve were opened in the bottom or side of the when it is full of wheat , the equilibrium of the grains would be disturbed to the extent of a vertical column having a sectional area somewhat larger than the aperture of the valve , and its height equal to the head of wheat .
It would be a vortex column fed mostly by the heat at the top of the bin sliding into it down slopcs formed by the angle of square foot uniformly from bottom to top in a bin which measurer in .
, would it be exceeded in a which measures , say 12 in .
in .
in .
In answering the question , it has already been shown that all lateral ceases at a height not exceeding two and a-half times the breadth of the side ( see Table ) , and therefore all lateral pressurs would cease in the bin assumed at the height of .
Oin .
; and in order to determine if the lateral pressure would be increased by any increased breadth of the bin , I caused one to be constructed within that already described , of the dimensions 3 ft. in .
in .
in .
, and when it was filled with wheat the maximum do.rmant pressure was .
upon a square foot .
This pressure was also indicated when only 7 .
of wheat was placed in the bin .
This shows that within certain limits the lateral pressure is slightly greater in the small than it is in the large one ; and we may , I think , in practice safely adopt .
upon each square foot of side as the constant for the lateral pressure of wheat .
We shall now consider the pressure of peas .
Those selected for the experiment were dry , hard , and round .
They weighed , when pressed into the measure , .
per cubic foot , and the determinations of the vertical and lateral pressures were ' made precisely in the same manner , and with the same weighing-9 machines and bin that were used in determining the pressures of wheat .
I need not , therefore , repeat any part of the descriptions which have been already given , and will now discuss the ] which embody the results obtained .
They are numbered respectively VII , VIII , IX , and X. Table VII shows the maximum pressure upon the bottom ' Determination of Pressures of Granular Substances .
239 }perture of 9 square feet wibh the head or height of 49 peas to be 1391 lbs. , and with the head of 9 .
the pressure of ( :3231bs .
With the bottom aperture of 4 square feet ( Table VIII ) nd the head of , the maximum dormant pressure of .
was indicated , and with the head or height of 6 he apex of the pressure paraboloid is therefore at the height of three { iameters of the inscribed circle of the base or aperture , and is greater diameter than the wheat paraboloid .
The constanb ( c ) for leas is , in the case of the 9 .
aperture , ; the corresponding sonstant for wheat being The lateral pressures are given in Tables IX and X , where , with aperture of 9 square feet and a head of 43 .
of peas , the maximum dormant pressure was , and with the head of 9 ft. us llbs .
With the aperture of 4 square feet and head of 43 $he maximum dormant pressure was 1211bs .
, and with a head of 6 971bs .
It therefore appears that all lateral pressure ceases at a height equal to three times the breadth of the aperture as indicated by the 9 , and that the pressure is slightly greater as indicated by the 4 ft. square aperture .
With the 9 .
it is .
on each square foot , and with the A .
it is .
The pressures of corresponding with these ( Tables and V ) were .
and respectively .
The conclusions to be drawn are , that the vertical or bottom presof peas is than that of wheat in the ratio of to of to ; but that the Iateral or side pressure of peas is less than that of wheat in the ratio of to , or of to The constant for computing the vertical pressure is safe the equilibrium of peas , wheat , or any other grain , but the safe permanent sustaining powers of floors or walls should be at least jour times the constant .
For the lateral pressure , .
upon each square foot of retaining wall is safe for the equilibrium of all grain ; but the resistance to pressure in any wall or partition should not be less than four times that , or .
upon each foot .
It will have been observed that the maximum dormant pressure has been adopted in the formulae for both the vertical and lateral pressures , though the active pressure is that which would cause the breaking down of the structure , and , as shown in the tables , it is considerably less than the Seeing that the constants for the vertical pressures of both wheat and peas are so near unity , one being 0.84 and the other Propose to adopt unity in the ] , which will then stand finally thus : \mdash ; bottom of the in pounds , whatever height the grain in the b$9/ may be , exceeding two diameters of its inscribed circle .
Following are the weights per cubic foot of various kinds of as determined by myself .
The loose and close fillings of the are given in each case , but the close or pressed filling is adopted the element in the formula .
EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURE .
A. Aperture through which the grain is brought into contact with the top of ) the weighing machine .
B. Brackets to support the levers .
A.B. Apertures in the side and bottom of the bin .
B.B. Floor of the bin .
S.B. Side of bin .
F. Free space between and apertures .
8 .
Slide for admitting and shutting off the grain .
'B .
Top of weighing machine .
R. Rest for lever .
S.W. Shding weight .
W. Suspended weights .
L. Levers .
C. Counterpoise weights .
B.W. Frame of machine .

