122 Sir James Dewar .
The absorption , etc. , of Gases [ June 15 , " The Absorption and Thermal Evolution of Gases occluded in ' Charcoal at Low Temperatures .
" By Sir James Dewar , ) ; M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University !
of Cambridge , and Fullerian Professor , Royal Institution , } London .
Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1904 .
During the year 1874\#151 ; 5 , in association with the late Professor Tait , a research was undertaken which involved the production of very perfect vacua , and with the object of improving on the then known methods , dense charcoal was employed as an efficient absorbent of traces of any gaseous residuum .
An account of these experiments communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh appeared in 'Nature , ' July 15 , 1875 , under the title of " Charcoal Vacua .
" In Professor Clerk Maxwell 's Notes on " Molecular Physics " the following succinct description of the process is given:\#151 ; " Another method employed by Professor Dewar is to place in a compartment of the vessel a piece of freshly heated cocoanut charcoal , and to heat it strongly during the last stages of the exhaustion by the mercury pump .
The vessel is then sealed up , and as the charcoal } cools it absorbs a very large proportion of the gases remaining in the vessel . .
" The interior of the vessel , after exhaustion , is found to be possessed of very remarkable properties .
" One of these properties furnishes a convenient test of the completeness of the exhaustion .
The vessel is provided with two metallic electrodes , the ends of which within the vessel are within a quarter of an inch of each other .
When the vessel contains air at the ordinary pressure a considerable electromotive force is required to produce an electric discharge across this interval .
As the exhaustion proceeds , the resistance to the discharge diminishes till the pressure is reduced to that of about a millimetre of mercury .
When , however , the exhaustion is made very perfect the discharge cannot be made to take place between the electrodes within the vessel , and the spark actually passes through several inches of air outside the vessel before it will leap the small interval in the empty vessel .
A vacuum , therefore , is a stronger insulator of electricity than any other medium .
At one of the conferences held in connection with the Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus* in the year 1876,1 showed that with a vapour like bromine the absorptive power of the charcoal was so effective that a space filled with the vapour even at atmospheric pressure could be made into a fairly high vacuum showing very wide striae .
* See ' Science Conferences , ' " Physics and Mechanics , " p. 154 .
j } 1904 ] occluded in Charcoal at Low Temperatures .
123 When the charcoal was heated the bromine vapour was again 11 expelled , and on allowing it to cool , all stages in the appearance of the ( electric discharge as the vacuum is reached could be conveniently I observed without the use of any form of air-pump .
When in the course of low temperature investigations the perfection 10f the vacuum vessels for the storage and manipulation of liquid air i and hydrogen came to be important , the effect of charcoal on heat ) !
isolation in such utensils was fully investigated and confirmed in a d paper entitled " Liquid Air as an Analytic Agent."* Still no systematic experiments on the absorptive power of charcoal at low 1 temperatures were made either at this time or subsequently .
It is the object of the present preliminary paper to contribute some | definite quantitative data regarding gas absorption and thermal I evolution in charcoal at the temperature of liquid air .
The mode in which liquid gases like oxygen or air could be used as calorimetric agents was described in my paper on the " Scientific Uses of Liquid 1 Air."t The apparatus was further improved into the form illustrated and described in Madame Curie 's Work , " Recherches sir les Substances I Radio Actives , " 2nd edition , p. 100 , as used for the determination | of the heat evolved by radium bromide either in liquid oxygen or s hydrogen .
Such calorimeters are easily adapted to the simultaneous I observation of the volume of any gas absorbed by charcoal , and of I the concomitant heat evolution .
For this purpose a small glass bulb C containing from 0*5\#151 ; 1 gramme I of charcoal has a long narrow tube C attached , so that it can be I immersed in the liquid oxygen or air in the calorimeter A B , while I still allowing a part of the tube to project above the cork A. In | order to dry and cool the 40 c.c. of gas , which represents the largest I volume taken in by the charcoal in my experiments , a little annular I space is arranged at D into which liquid air is poured immediately I before the experiment is made .
I The charcoal , after being placed in the tube C , is heated to a low I red heat and simultaneously exhausted by a good air-pump , and after I all the gas has been removed the stop-cock E is closed .
In this con-I dition it is placed in the calorimeter .
I The experiment is conducted by connecting the end of the tube at I E by means of an india-rubber tube with a graduated vessel F con-I taining the gas .
W hen all is ready the stop-cock E is opened , so that K the gas may rush into the charcoal , and the heat evolved by its I absorption distils off the equivalent quantity of liquid air from the I calorimeter , which is measured in the vessel G. The constant of the calorimeter being known ( which with liquid air * ' Rov .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1898 .
t ' Roy .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1894 .
124 Sir James Dewar .
The absorption , etc. , of Gases [ June 15,1 is about 14-5 c.c. per calorie ) , we get the actual thermal evolutions together with the volume of gas absorbed .
The heat correction for the rush of gas into the same exhausted * glass bulb without charcoal is small in proportion to the total heatl evolved , and the same maybe said of the volume correction on account !
of the cooling of the space external to the charcoal .
With a variable material like cocoanut charcoal I have in the calorimetric experiments used the same sample in all cases .
The following table embodies the general results per cubic centimetre of charcoal .
The gas absorption is given at 0 ' and 760 mm. If the volume of gas absorbed had been measured under the same conditions of pressure at -185 ' C. , then the numbers in Column II would all have to be divided by three .
I. II .
III .
Volume absorbed . .
Volume absorbed .
Heat evolved .
0 ' C. -185 ' C. Gramme calories .
Hydrogen 4 c.c. 135 C.C. 9-3 Nitrogen 15 " 155 " 25*5 Oxygen 18 " 230 " 34-0 Argon 12 " 175 " 25*0 Helium 2 " 15 " 2'0 Electrolytic gas 12 " 150 " 17-0 Carbonic oxide and 30 " 195 " 34-5 oxygen Carbonic oxide 21 " 190 " 27*5 1904.1 occluded in Charcoal at Low Temperatures .
125 In all cases , it will be observed , the amount of gas occluded has been Jgreatly increased at the low temperature , and the degree of condensation is generally such as we should anticipate from the known physical [ constants of the gases .
The amount of heat evolved is so great as to be in excess of that required for liquefaction in the case of gases like hydrogen , nitrogen , and oxygen .
The heat produced when successive fractions of the volume of gas required for saturation are absorbed has I yet to be determined .
In the time required for the absorption no i measurable amount of chemical combination was effected between mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen or carbonic oxide and oxygen in the | pores of the charcoal .
[ Such experiments must be extended to the use of platinised charcoal and other catalytic agents .
Perhaps the most striking result is the great difference in properties j exhibited by helium .
While resembling the other gases in showing increased absorption at the temperature of liquid air , the absolute amount occluded per unit volume of charcoal is about one-tenth that I of the other gases at the same temperature .
There can be little doubt I that when the relative absorption of helium in charcoal is measured at the temperature of liquid hydrogen , the increased absorption will i be so marked as to make it comparable to that of hydrogen in the present set of experiments .
In this case charcoal at the boiling point of hydrogen will become an efficient condensing agent for helium , and \ this property will have important applications in future research .
Separation of Highly Concentrated Oxygen from Air .
In order to examine the changes taking place in a mixed gas like air [ during the absorption , a quantity of about 50 grammes of charcoal was | after heating and exhaustion saturated at \#151 ; 185 ' in a current of pure [ dry air ; got by passing the air current through a U-tube immersed in I liquid air .
I For a time the air rushed into the .
charcoal with great rapidity , and [ in about 10 minutes between 5 and 6 litres were taken in .
A mano-I meter attached to the vessel containing the charcoal showed , on shutting I off the air current , that during the early part of the saturation the I absorption was so effective as to give practically no measurable I mercury pressure .
As soon as the absorption , was ended , and a current | began to pass slowly over the charcoal , the composition of the air | leaving the charcoal showed 98 per cent , nitrogen .
After the current I of air had passed for half an hour , the total gas occluded in the I charcoal was expelled by taking the vessel in which it had been treated I out of the liquid air , and allowing the temperature to rise to 15 ' C. The gas , which was rapidly expelled , measured 5'7 litres , and I contained 56 per cent , of oxygen .
If the saturated charcoal before 126 The absorption , etc. , of Gases occluded in Charcoal .
heating up was subjected for an hour to the action of an air-pumpJ capable of giving a steady exhaustion of 5 mm. , no difference was .
effected in the oxygen percentage of the evolved gas .
The same ; experiment was repeated with this variation , that , instead of the air ; current having the pressure of the atmosphere , it was kept below one-tenth of an atmosphere .
In this experiment , 4'8 litres were expelled on heating up , and the percentage of oxygen was 58 .
Then , a further repetition was made with an air current supplied at a pressure not exceeding 5 mm. of mercury .
After 3 hours ' treatment , j the charcoal , on heating to 15 ' 0 .
, gave 4| litres of 57 per cent , oxygen .
From these experiments it follows that the tension of the occluded gases , at the temperature of liquid air , must be very small , and thus the use of low temperatures , combined with charcoal , introduces a new and greatly improved means of getting high vacua , which in the future may be found susceptible of important practical applications .
These experiments are quite conclusive as to the practical constancy of the mean composition of the air gases occluded in the charcoal ( subject to the conditions aforesaid ) , and they further show that wide changes in the pressure of the air current has little or no effect in altering the proportions .
In another experiment , the vessel containing the saturated charcoal , instead of being allowed to rise rapidly in temperature , was transferred to a vacuum vessel , in which a little liquid air was placed , in order that the temperature might rise slowly , and thereby enable the successive litres of gas given off to be collected separately and analysed .
This experiment gave the following results :\#151 ; Oxygen per cent. First litre ... ... ... ... 18'5 Second " ... ... ... ... .
30'6 Third " ... ... ... . . . .
53-0 Fourth " 72*0 Fifth " 79*0 Sixth " 84-0 The mean composition of the 6 litres is again 56 per cent , oxygen .
9 From the above experiments it follows that one of the most rapid means of extracting a high percentage of oxygen from atmospheric airjB is to absorb it in charcoal at low temperatures , and then to expel it ; either rapidly or slowly by heating the mass of charcoal to the ordinary | temperature .
A few experiments have been made using , instead of air , specialfl mixtures of oxygen and nitrogen .
Thus it was found that a , gas con-|B taining 6'5 per cent , of oxygen used in the same manner as in the air j| occlusion experiments , gave , on heating up the charcoal rapidly tom 15 ' C. , 5 litres of gas having the composition of 23 per cent , of oxygen .
9 Separation of the most Volatile Gases from Air .
j \ repetition of the same process with the 23 per cent , of oxygen would ; have raised the percentage about 60 per cent. , or a stronger concentration could have been reached by fractionating the gas as it slowly leaves the charcoal on gradually increasing the temperature .
This preliminary investigation suggests many fields for further inquiry , and some of these I hope to deal with in future papers .
I have to express my thanks to Mr. Eobert Lennox , F.C.S. , for efficient aid in the conduct of the experiments , and Mr. J. W. Heath , F.C.S. , has also rendered valuable assistance .
" The Separation of the most Volatile Gases from Air without Liquefaction .
" By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.E.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge , and Fullerian Professor , Koyal Institution , London .
Eeceived June 15 , \#151 ; Eead June 16 , 1904 .
From the time when liquid air came to be an ordinary laboratory agent , I have continually used it for the purpose of producing high vacua in vessels that had been previously filled with easily condensable gases , like sulphurous acid , carbonic acid , vapour of water or benzol .
When the liquefaction of hydrogen was effected one of the first scientific uses to which it was put was that described in my paper on the " Application of Liquid Hydrogen to the Production of High Vacua , together with their Spectroscopic Examination."* In that communication it was shown by theory and confirmed by experiment that the condensing power of liquid hydrogen is so great relatively to that of liquid oxygen or nitrogen , that any closed vessel , a part of which is cooled to the boiling point of hydrogen must suddenly become a highly vacuous space .
This was proved by the great difficulty of getting electric discharges to pass through specially prepared spectroscopic tubes when subjected to liquid hydrogen cooling , and from the fact that when the current did pass no lines of oxygen or nitrogen were seen , but only those of hydrogen , helium and neon .
In order to separate these latter gases from air it was necessary to liquefy a quantity of air and to distil off the most volatile portion at as low a temperature as possible into a separate receiver placed in liquid hydrogen .
In this way many spectroscopic tubes were filled with the uncondensable air gases and the results of their examination is recorded in a paper entitled " On the Spectra of the more Volatile Gases of Atmospheric Air , which are not Condensed at the Temperature of Liquid Hydrogen , " !
by Professor Living and myself .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64,1898 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , 1900 .
VOL. LXXJV .
K

