115 A New Radio-Active Element , which Evolves Thorium Emanation .
Preliminary Communication .
By 0 .
Hahn , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 7 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1905 .
) [ The material for this investigation was provided by Sir William Ramsay it was the final residue remaining after fusion with bisulphate of 5 cwt .
of the cubical ore from Ceylon , for which the name " thorianite " has been suggested by Professor Dunstan .
This residue was fused with carbonates , , the silica was removed , and the carbonates dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid .
Lead was precipitated as sulphide , and the carbonates again precipitated .
These preliminary operations were carried out by Mr. Charles Tyrer and by Dr. Denison .
] This residue weighed about 18 grammes , and a preliminary estimation of radio-activity led to the belief that it would yield about 15 milligrammes of pure radium bromide .
The carbonates were dissolved in pure aqueous hydrobromic acid , and the bromides fractionated according to Giesel 's method .
But difficulties were soon encountered ; the more soluble portion did not fall off in radio-activity , but .
gradually grew more strongly radioactive ; the radium concentrated at the least soluble end , and the middle fractions became relatively weak in radio-activity .
Small traces of iron and other impurities , unavoidable in London , collected in the more soluble portions , and the ferric bromide imparted to them a brownish-yellow colour .
These , and indeed all fractions , were again treated with hydrogen sulphide , and a minute quantity of a peculiar dark-brown precipitate came down .
It was also radio-active ; it was soluble in nitric acid to a pale green solution , and on evaporation crystals of two kinds deposited ; easily soluble green crystals and less soluble white ones .
The investigation of these bodies is still in progress .
By a series of troublesome operations , a quantity of precipitate was obtained by aid of ammonia , and to separate iron , it was treated in acid solution with ammonium oxalate ; this produced about 10 milligrammes of crystalline precipitate , which was by far the most active preparation obtained , and which shows after two months no diminution in its radio-active power .
It glows feebly in the dark , and imparts bright luminosity to screens both of platino-cyanide and zinc sulphide .
If a current of air be blown through a solution of this substance and directed on to a screen coated with zinc 116 Dr. O. Hahn .
A New Radio-Active , [ Mar. 7 , sulphide , luminosity is produced , which , nevertheless , is different in intensity from that shown when a similar experiment is performed with Giesel 's emanium .
The phenomena are not so brilliant as those obtained from a strong sample of emanium kindly sent by Professor Giesel .
It was not possible to perform the beautiful experiment of allowing the emanation to pour down on the screen and blowing it away , probably because the new substance emits / 9-rays in too great abundance .
But that the dry substance also evolves emanation was easily discovered by help of an electrometer .
The first impression , that the new substance was identical with actinium or emanium , was found to be untenable , * for the new preparation evolves an emanation identical with that of thorium ; different samples gave for the half-period of decay from 52 to 55 seconds ; for the half-period of the induced activity , somewhat more than 111 hours was found , and a small remaining activity persists and decays very slowly .
( The half-period for thorium emanation was found by Le Rossignol and Giminghamf to be 51-2 seconds ; Bronson , working in Rutherford 's Laboratory , found 54 seconds .
) As this phenomenon has up till now not been noticed with thorium emanation , it may be conjectured either that another radio-active substance is mixed with the new body in very small traces , of which the induced radioactivity must have a long period of decay , or what is less probable , that the induced activity of thorium , like that of radium , changes into another product with a long radio-active existence .
It is certain that radium .emanation and also Rutherford 's radium-E were absent .
The oxalate , which weighed 10 milligrammes , dissolved in hydrochloric acid , gave a quantity of emanation considerably greater than would be evolved from a kilogramme of thorium in solution ; consequently , it is more than 100,000 times as active as thorium .
Further work has resulted in the accumulation of 20 milligrammes of material nearly 250,000 times as active as its own weight of thorium nitrate .
Thorium itself , if present at all , must be there in minimal quantity , for the oxalate gives tests for calcium for the most part .
Whether this active substance is a constant radio-active constituent of thorium preparations , or whether it is another new radio-active element , remains still undecided .
Its quantitative extraction from thorium salts has not yet been investigated .
After precipitation of a small part of * The measurements of the emanations and excited activities were carried out in collaboration with Dr. Sackur , working in this laboratory ; we also re-determined the half-period of decay of the emanation from Giesel 's emanium , as about three seconds , and for its induced activity a period of about 36 seconds .
More exact measurements are in progress .
t 'Phil .
Mag. , ' July , 1904 , p. 107 .
which Evolves Thorium Emanation .
1905 .
] the solution in hydrochloric acid of the original ammonia precipitate with ammonia , the filtrate shows considerable radio-activity , which rapidly falls off in a few days , but does not wholly disappear , and the removal of this substance does not diminish appreciably the radio-activity of the insoluble residue .
Whether that is due to thorium\#151 ; a ?
or not has not yet been quantitatively investigated .
The close relation of the new body to thorium is proved , not merely by the apparent identity of the two emanations , but also in its having been separated from a mineral unusually rich in thorium * We are in hopes that it may prove possible , by several processes of concentration , to obtain an even more strongly radio-active product , and to be able to describe more in detail the chemical properties of the substance ; one difficulty consists in the adhesion of the substance to all precipitates ; all filters are radio-active , and can hardly be purified by repeated washing .
The activity of the sulphide precipitate may , perhaps , be due to this cause ; the emanation which it yields appears to be identical with that obtained from the precipitate with ammonia .
Eecent researches would appear to show that this substance is present in soil in amount comparable with , but still considerably smaller than radium .
G. A. Blancf has described in a paper on " the Radio-Activity of Mineral Springs , " a gas which contains thorium emanation .
1ST .
M. Dadourian , * in investigating the radio-activity of subterranean air , has detected not only radium emanation , but also that of thorium ; and Elster and GeitelS have described a preparation obtained from the mud from the Baden Baden " Ursprung " as containing no thorium in detectable quantity , but yet evolving thorium emanation in amount such that half a gramme of thorium oxide would be required to produce it .
They conjecture , therefore , the presence of a new radio-active element .
Attention may also be called to the fact that inactive thoria is said more than once to have been obtained .
It is almost certain that all these emanations are the product of this new substance , and are not derived from thorium itself , for the amount of emanation obtainable from thorium is so small that , if it can be measured at all , it should be possible to detect thorium analytically in the source from which it is evolved .
* Experiments are in progress in this laboratory to attempt to concentrate the radioactive substance from a large quantity of thorium ; but , so far , no definite results have been obtained .
+ ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 9 , pp. 148 to 154 .
+ 'Sill .
Amei\ J. of Science , ' vol. 19 , 1905 , pp. 16 to 22 .
S " Radioaktivitat der Sedimente der Thermalquellen , " 'Chem .
Centralbl .
, ' 1905 , vol. 1 , p. 651 .

