' 1904 .
] On the Lymphatic Glands Sleeping Sickness .
455 A large number of temperature coefficients have been measured .
8 These were found to be in the majority of cases positive , the : conductivities increase with rise of temperature .
11 All the experiments which have been hitherto carried out lead to , tpe conclusion that it is the dissolved substances ( i.e. , the acetamide , etc. ) ; which carries the current and not the halogen hydride .
In other words , j we are dealing with solutions in which the organic and not the inorganic { substance undergoes electrolytic dissociation .
_ Further experiments are at present in progress , having foi then object the measurement of the molecular weight of the dissolved substances ( McIntosh and Archibald ) and the determination of the I transport numbers ( Steele ) .
_ i Discussion of the results so far obtained is deferred until these ! .
experiments are completed .
" Note on the Lymphatic Glands in Sleeping Sickness."^ By Captain E. D. AM .
Greig , I.M.S. , and Lieutenant A. C. H. Gray , R.A.M.C. Communicated by Colonel Bruce , E.B.S. , at the desire of the Sleeping Sickness Commission .
Received and Read May 5 , 1904 .
Captain Greig , in a letter dated March 17 , 1904 , writes that following a suggestion of Dr. Mott , they have examined the contents of lymphatic glands during life from fifteen sleeping-sickness patients .
In all of them actively motile trypanosomes were very readily found in cover-glass preparations taken from the cervical glands .
They also present in other glands such as the femoral , but weie not neailj ' [ so numerous .
They found the trypanosomes to be far more numerous m the glands than in the blood or cerebro-spinal fluid , and believ e that the examination of fluid removed from lymphatic glands will pio'se to be a much more rapid and satisfactory method of diagnosing eail } casts of sleeping sickness than the examination of the blood .
At first the glands were excised , but this was soon found to be I unnecessary , as it is easy to puncture a superficial gland with a hypodermic syringe and suck up some of the juice into the needle and blow this out on a slide .
The actively moving trypanosomes were readily found after a short search in these slides , when a prolonged search in similar preparations of the blood from the finger failed to discover them .
In stained specimens , in addition to well-formed trypanosomes , there exist many broken-down remains , which suggests that a destrue-| tion of the trypanosomes takes place in the glands .
I)i 456 On the Lymphatic Olancls Sleeping Sickness .
[ May 5 , The authors also examined the cervical lymphatic glands of the five natives suffering from trypanosomiasis who have been under observa-j * tion for the past year , and found actively motile trypanosomes in the liquid withdrawn from the glands in all of them .
Tabula , one of these patients , is employed in the hospital ; and the dispenser reports he is getting very stupid .
\#166 ; The lymphatic glands were also examined for streptococci by staining y and culture , but in every case were found to be sterile .
Some of the cases , the glands from which were examined for streptococci , were very far advanced .
The streptococcus invasion must , in the opinion of the authors , be a very late one and only occur shortly before death .
Observations made upon the blood show a constant increase in the percentage of lymphocytes , but the total leucocytes are not increased .
The authors consider that these observations throw a new light upon the glandular enlargements which have been so constantly noticed in sleeping sickness , and that the disease is essentially a polyadenitis brought about by the arrest of the trypanosomes in the glands where many of them are destroyed , but whence some escape from time to time into the blood stream and thus occasion the increase which has been observed in the peripheral circulation .
They regard their observations upon the presence of trypanosomes in number in the lymphatic glands of both early cases of trypanosomiasis and advanced cases of sleeping sickness , as affording important evidence of the unity of these diseases , and further proof that the trypanosomes are the essential cause of sleeping sickness .

