92 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , enables one more readily to study it in its different stages ; although , on the other hand , the number of leucocytes which are passing into the lacteals and there undergoing disintegration is much less at any one period than in the mammal .
A fuller account of the subject , furnished with illustrations , and containing the necessary references to other articles dealing with the same question , will appear in the forthcoming number of the " Monthly International Journal of Anatomy and Histology .
" January 29 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
x The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On some Physical Properties of Ice and on the Motion of Glaciers , with special reference to the late Canon Moseley 's objections to Gravitation Theories .
" By the Rev. Coutts Trotter , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received December 22 , 1884 .
I. Introducto .
It will be remembered that in a paper " On the Descent of Glaciers , " read to the Royal Society on the 19th of April , 1855 ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 7 , pp. 333\#151 ; 342 ; " Phil. Mag. , " vol. x , pp. 60\#151 ; 67 ) , Canon Moseley proposed a new theory to account for the phenomena of glacier motion .
The theory was suggested , as is well known , by the observation of the gradual descent of a sheet of lead resting on a roof of moderate slope , and exposed - to considerable diurnal variations of temperature .
According to it the descent of a glacier is due to the alternate expansion and contraction of the ice in the direction of the length of the glacier under the influence of varying temperature ; gravity assisting the downward and opposing the upward movement of the mass .
This paper was effectively answered by Forbes ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 7 , p. 412 ) , and the theory has never been accepted by persons jgg5 .
] and on the Motion of conversant with glaciers .
The fatal objection taken by Forbes was that in a glacier , considered as a whole , there is no such variation of temperature , and consequently no such alternate expansion and contraction of the ice as Moseley 's theory presupposes .
The question of the temperature of the interior of a glacier will be considered further on .
It will be sufficient to state here that theory and experiment lead alike to the conclusion that the variations of temperature due to the alternations of day and night , and even of summer and winter , are local and superficial only , the great working mass of the glacier , as it may be termed , being at a sensibly constant temperature .
This fact had been brought out in the controversy which arose out of Charpentier 's " dilatation " theory of glacier motion .
The late Mr. W. R. Browne , who recently came forward as a defender of Moseley 's hypothesis ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , pp. 208 \#151 ; 217 ) , appeared to admit this fact , but argued that the upper layers of ice in expanding and contracting may drag with them , the lower layers , or at least cause the upper layers to shear over the lower ones .
Without discussing the possibility of such action in the general case , it may be sufficient to make two remarks .
( 1 .
) As the motion of a glacier is continuous during the year , it must on Canon Moseley 's hypothesis be caused by the diurnal as distinguished from the annual variations of temperature .
Mr. Browne quotes Dr. Rae as saying , " We know that ice 2 or 3 feet or more thick contracts very considerably in a few hours by a sudden fall of 15 or 20 degrees of temperature .
" Now the cold of a summer 's night in the Alps is far less intense than that of a " cold snap " in the American north-west , while it is very difficult to believe that even a very considerable expansion or contraction of the upper 2 or 3 feet of a glacier can afEect the motion of a mass several hundred feet thick .
( 2 .
) In many of the glaciers which move most rapidly the upper layers of ice are intersected by a system of transverse crevasses at short intervals .
These extend so far as effectually to prevent any interaction between portions of the surface layer at any considerable distance from one another .
Moseley did not make any satisfactory answer to the objections brought against his theory , but in 1869 and the following years he put forward a somewhat formidable objection to the current gravitation theories of glacier motion .
His paper was read to the Royal Society on January 7 , 1869 ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 17 , p. 202 ; " Phil. Mag. , " vol. xxxvii , p. 229 ) , and was followed up by a series of communications to the " Philosophical Magazine , " of which the most important are to be found in vols .
xxxvii , pp. 363\#151 ; 370 , and xxxix , pp. 1\#151 ; 8 .
The gist of the objection is that the resistance of ice to shearing is many times greater than the shearing force 94 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , which can be produced in a descending glacier by gravity ; and that therefore the shearing which the measurements of Forbes and others have shown to be an essential part of the motion of a glacier cannot be produced by gravity alone .
Mr. W. Mathews ( " Alpine Journal , " vol. iv , pp. 411\#151 ; 427 ) , Mr. J. Ball ( " Phil. Mag. , " vol. xl , pp. 1\#151 ; 10 ) , and others replied to Canon Moseley , but none of the answers were altogether complete , though both the above-mentioned authors clearly pointed out the weak point in Moseley 's argument .
Moseley 's objection is no doubt decisive if the shearing strength of ice as deduced from his experiments represents even approximately the resistance to shearing under the actual circumstances of glacier motion .
But , as Mr. Mathews pointed out ( .
p. 426 ) , the time during which the shearing force acted is an important element in the experiments .
Moseley found ( " Phil. Mag. , " vol. xxxix , p. 8 ) that when the shearing took place in three minutes the shearing strength was about 118 lbs. per square inch , while when the operation lasted thirty minutes the result was about 112 lbs. per square inch .
In one experiment the ice sheared in thirty-six minutes under a force of about 98 lbs. per square inch .
Mr. Mathews pertinently remarks , " I am curious to know what weight would have sheared the ice if a day had been allowed for its operation .
" I have attempted to answer a question of this kind in the experiments recorded in the present paper. .
In the section of the paper which immediately follows I have given a short notice of the most important recent experiments upon a small scale which bear upon the question of the viscosity of ice .
In Section III I have described my own experiments on the subject .
In Section IV I have dealt with the objection to the viscosity of ice drawn from its supposed inextensibility .
In V I have discussed a novel argument of Mr. Browne 's in support of a high value of the shearing strength of ice .
In VI I have discussed the question of the probable temperature of different parts of the glacier , and of the significance of the " Bergschrund ; " while VII contains a few concluding remarks upon the general drift of the paper .
II .
Previous Experiments bearing upon the Viscosity of Ice.* Since the date of Canon Moseley 's papers a good many experiments have been published which tend to show that ice will change its form * By viscosity , I understand the property in virtue of which , bodies change their form under the continued influence of forces which would he insufficient to cause an immediate change of form of similar amount .
Probably nearly all , if not all , substances have more or less viscosity ; but by a viscous solid may be understood a substance in which a large change of form is produced by adequate forces in a time which is neither exceedingly small nor enormously great .
1885-1 and on the Motion of Glaciers .
under the influence of moderate forces applied continuously for a considerable time .
In some of these , small bodies , mostly metallic , were forced into or through masses of ice .
These experiments may be set aside as irrelevant .
They were , or may have been , simply instances of the melting of ice through the lowering of the freezing point by pressure , and of subsequent freezing where the pressure is less .
In fact some of the most striking results have been very properly published as examples of this action ( c/ .
" Nature , " vol. v , p. 185 ; vi 396 ) .
The remaining experiments are for the most part experiments on the bending or twisting of masses of ice either under the influence of their own weight only or by means of superimposed weights of moderate size .
Bianconi seems to have made some experiments of this kind as early as December , 1866 , but he did not publish his results until 1871 , when his early experiments , as well as others made in January and February of that year , were published in the 11 Memory della Accademia di Bologna , " Serie 3a , vol. i , pp. 155\#151 ; 166 .
In the meantime Mr. W. Mathews had made and published some interesting experiments in the winter of 1869\#151 ; 70 ( " Alpine Journal , " vol. iv , p. 426 ; " Nature , " vol. i , p. 534 ) .
In these the influence of temperature was very marked .
The middle point of a plank of ice 6 feet long and 2-f inches thick , the ends of which were supported , sank 7 inches in about as many hours during a thaw .
A somewhat thinner plank of the same length sank only about 3^ inches in nearly three days of frosty weather .
Results similar in kincj were obtained by Tyndall ( with glacier ice ) ( " Nature , " vol. iv , p.447 ) , Pfaff ( " Phil. Mag. , " vol. 1 , p. 335 ) , and others .
PfafE quotes Kane as having been the first to make such observations , but gives no reference .
These experiments show conclusively that the continuous action for a considerable time of comparatively small forces will produce effects upon ice which the same forces are quite incapable of producing in a short time , but they do not necessarily throw much light upon the actual processes which take place in a glacier .
When a glacier is descending in the usual river-like manner in a straight and uniform bed and down a uniform slope , the central part moving most rapidly , and the parts nearest to the bottom and sides of the channel being retarded by them , it is clear that the motion must take place by the ice shearing along cylindrical surfaces whose generating lines are parallel to the direction of flow of the glacier .
In Canon Moseley 's experiments , and in those of my own which are recorded below , the motion is essentially the same , the shearing taking place , approximately at all events , uniformly in one plane .
On the other hand , when a beam of ice sags under the influence of its own weight the motion is much more complicated .
Assuming that there is nowhere any change of density , but that the transformation takes 96 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , place exclusively by shearing , the direction as well as the extent of the shear will vary from point to point , and a simple observation of the flexure of the beam will not give a direct measure of the shearing strength of ice at any point .
Moreover , the experiments were all made either during frosty weather , when the temperature of the ice experimented upon was variable , and the conditions therefore very different from those which obtain in the interior of a glacier , or else in a warm atmosphere while the ice was thawing rapidly , and the experiments could not be carried on for any considerable time under unchanged conditions .
III .
New Experiments .
Under these circumstances it seemed desirable that fresh direct experiments on the shearing strength of ice should be made under conditions differing as little as might be from those under which ice actually shears in the interior of a glacier , and it occurred to me that such experiments might be advantageously made in one of the artificial grottoes which are now excavated year after year for the benefit of tourists in several of the more accessible Swiss glaciers .
It seemed that it would be possible in this way to carry out experiments upon glacier ice at a nearly uniform temperature of about 0 ' C. , and under conditions as nearly resembling the interior of a glacier as we can hope to attain to in experiments on hand specimens of ice .
I accordingly spent pai*t of the long vacation of 1883 at Grindelwald , and made a series of experiments in the grotto on the right bank of the lower glacier , in order to see whether I could obtain direct evidence of shearing under the influence of forces comparable with those which Canon Moseley admits to be capable of being produced by the action of gravity in a moving glacier .
Situation of the Experimental Grotto .
The entrance to this year 's grotto was at the base of a cliff of ice which I estimated at about 25 metres high .
It was , by a rough barometrical comparison with Grindelwald , about 1275 metres above the sea-level , and about 75 metres above and perhaps 300 metres distant from the place where the glacier , now reduced at this point to a comparatively narrow tongue of ice , plunges into a -deep and narrow gorge .
At the time of my arrival in Grindelwald ( June 27 ) the grotto , the floor of which sloped slightly upwards , penetrated for about 18 metres nearly in a straight line , making an angle of about 55 ' with the face of the ice cliff , and then for about 8'5 metres further in a direction making an angle of about 3 ' only with the face of the cliff .
It was a gallery nearly 2 metres high , and rather more than a metre wide .
jgg5 .
] and on the Motion of Glaciers .
I had a lateral gallery excavated to contain my apparatus at the extremity of the main gallery , and on the side opposite to the edge of the glacier .
This was of the same height as the main gallery , and about 3 metres long .
The entrance was of the same width as the main gallery , but the end was somewhat wider , perhaps 1*7 metre .
This lateral gallery was shut off* by a rough door of planks from the gallery , which was afterwards extended for a few metres beyond the entrance to the side gallery .
The place in which my experiments were conducted was therefore some 18 metres from the edge of the glacier , 25 or 30 metres below its upper surface , and probably at least an equal distance above its bed .
There were some longitudinal crevasses of considerable size on the lower part of the glacier , and it is probable that one of these was not very far from the experimental gallery .
I infer this from the fact that there was perceptibly more light in the side gallery than in the main gallery at the point where the side gallery branched off from it , and the light increased sensibly during the time ( rather more than five weeks ) that my experiments lasted .
I attribute this increase of light to the melting of the side of a crevasse , and am disposed to estimate the distance from the end of the experimental gallery to the nearest crevasse at from 5 to 10 metres .
After the first few days T kept maximum and minimum thermometers on the wooden frame which supported my apparatus .
The extreme readings were 0 ' C. and 2 ' C. The temperature of the air and the gallery must have been raised from time to time by the presence of myself and others , particularly when a light was used , but for the greater part of the time the temperature of the air can Scarcely have differed sensibly from 0 ' C. The pieces of ice used in my first experiments were part of the material excavated from the side gallery .
In the last I used a block hewn out expressly from the interior of the glacier .
I always chose the most solid and transparent , and therefore presumably the hardest and strongest , pieces I could find .
The blocks hewn by the pick were cut roughly to the required size and shape with a coarsetoothed saw ; they were finished with a carpenter 's plane set so as to cut a rather coarse shaving .
The apparatus used was in principle the same as Canon Moseley 's .
My apparatus was , however , disposed symmetrically so as to produce a shear in two parallel planes simultaneously .
, I was thus enabled to simplify the arrangements for fixing the apparatus , and to make my measurements more easily and accurately .
Each of three pieces of hoard , AB ( fig. 1 ) , had a square notch cut in one side , so that when the short bar , CD , was fixed in its place by two screws , the whole formed a block with a square hole in its centre .
A hook by which the VOL. xxxviii .
H 98 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , Fig. l. whole could be bung up was screwed into CD .
This is drawn for distinctness sake in the plane of the board .
It was actually in a plane at right angles to that of the board ( see fig. 2 ) .
Two of these blocks were suspended from a cross-piece ( see fig. 2)_ Fig. 2 .
The distance of the hooks on the cross-piece was so adjusted that there was just room between the two hanging-blocks for the third block to move freely up and down .
A square bar of ice , ab , was then 1885 .
] an\lt ; # the Motion of Glaciers .
passed through the three square holes , a weight was hung on to the middle block , and the whole left hanging up in the grotty Thin plates of cork were interposed between the ice and the wood where the pressure was greatest .
At the close of the experiment the weight was removed , and the wooden blocks with the bar of ice removed , to the edge of the glacier for examination .
The weights used were stones taken from the moraine , the weight being ascertained in each case by a Salter 's spring balance .
As the shear to be observed would probably be small , and some melting , at least of the surfaces exposed to pressure , was to be expected , it was necessary to fix fiducial marks in the substance of the ice .
Several forms of wooden and metal plugs and pins were tried , but did not remain sufficiently firmly fixed to make accurate measurements possible .
I ultimately obtained satisfactory results by boring three small cylindrical holes in a horizontal plane at about the points marked c , d , e in fig. 2 A small American twist drill about 2 mm. diameter , fitted to a carpenter 's brace , made very uniform holes with sharp edges which , under favourable conditions , were very permanent and admitted of accurate measurements being made .
Before boring the holes I applied the edge of a steel straight-edge to the ice .
This melted a narrow straight groove in the line a , b , and by taking care to keep this line in the median plane of the body while boring , it was not difficult to secure that the axes of the holes should be very approximately in one plane , so that no appreciable error would be caused if the surface of the bar melted or had to be reworked before the straight-edge was reapplied at the close of the experiment , and the displacement of the middle hole noted .
My working place on the moraine was not very convenient , and it was not quite so easy as it looked to apply a straight-edge accurately to the edge of the holes on the slippery surface of the melting block of ice , but a little experience taught me the necessary precautions , and in my later experiments the measurements agreed very well together and appeared to be quite satisfactory .
In my first experiments the middle block was rather more than 5 cm .
thick , the outer blocks about 2*5 cm .
The apertures were rather more than 5 cm .
square .
As it was not necessary to drive home the screws which attached block CD to AB ( fig. 1 ) , it was possible to take in a bar 5 cm .
deep as well as the cork plates .
The following preliminary experiments may be recorded :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) July 5 , bar 5x4*7 cm .
, weight 13*5 kilos .
Examined July 9 , shear estimated at *05 cm .
, but measurements not quite trustworthy , melting slight , not measured .
Shearing force at beginning of experiment 288 grm. per sq .
cm .
( 2 .
) July 9 , bar 5x4*5 cm .
, weight 25 kilos .
Examined July 14 ; the bar had apparently not been quite rectangular ; there had been 100 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , some lateral pressure , and the bar had melted irregularly .
The holes c , e , had been made too near the shearing surface ; the ice appeared .a good deal crushed , and the holes were not recognisable with certainty .
If the holes were rightly identified the shear was about 0#5 cm .
The middle hole d was uninjured , the shearing surface had been reduced by melting and shearing to about 3-5 x 2*5 cm .
Shearing force at beginning of experiment 555 grm. per sq .
cm .
" end " 1430 " ( 3 .
) July 16 , bar and weight same as in ( 2 ) .
Examined July 19 ; bar in good condition , shear probably about *05 cm .
The weather on July 16 had been very bad , and the holes had been rather hurriedly and carelessly bored and measured , so that the final measurement of the shear was not quite trustworthy .
Shearing force at beginning of experiment 555 grm. I believe that the shear in ( 2 ) was rightly measured , but that it had taken place chiefly after the bar had been considerably reduced by melting , and the shearing force per sq .
cm .
considerably increased .
In the course of the above preliminary experiments I came to the conclusion that it was desirable to make use of a larger bar , and to carry on the experiment for a longer time .
I accordingly had a fresh set of blocks made with holes 11 cm .
square .
The middle block was 10 cm .
thick , the side ones 5f .
A bar of ice was cut from a freshly excavated block and carefully prepared .
Two rows of three holes were bored in it , and the position of the centre hole of each row carefully verified .
Cork plates were introduced between the ice and the wood on all sides .
The apparatus was hung up on July 18 , and left undisturbed till August 4 .
Bar 11'5 X 10'5 cm .
, weight 48 kilos .
On examining the bar on August 4 the holes were found in perfect condition , the melting had been slight and regular .
The thickness of the bar had been reduced from 10'5 to 10 cm .
There had been rather more melting where the pressure was applied , so that the ultimate depth along the planes of shearing was 10'5 cm .
, so that the final shearing surface was 2 x 10 X 10'5=210 sq .
cm .
The measurements of the two rows of holes agreed well , and gave a shear of *075 cm .
Shearing force at beginning of experiment 199 grm. per sq .
cm .
" end , , 229 " I should have been glad , had time permitted , to have repeated and varied the experiments further ; but I can feel no doubt that in the last experiment a distinct shear of an amount not very different from that which I have given , had taken place .
The measurements were 1885.j an\lt ; ^ the Motion of Glaciers .
101 carefully made , and were perfectly concordant , and experience had shown me the precautions necessary to obtain an accurate result .
The shearing force employed was , indeed , rather more than double that which , according to Canon Moseley 's calculations , is exerted by gravity in the Mer de Glace , near the Tacul ( " Phil. Mag. , " xxxvii , p. 369 ) ; bat it is about one twenty-fifth of his smallest value of the shearing strength of ice , and the amount of shear is larger than is implied in any of the ordinary cases of glacier motion .
I may mention that in spite of the low temperature of the grotto the exposed ends of the bar were rendered partially opaque by a number of fine cracks , showing a tendency in the ice to break up into angular fragments such as may be observed in the partially disintegrated ice on the surface of a glacier ( the Gletscherkorner of Heim and others ) ; the parts , however , which were inclosed within the wooden blocks and had been effectually protected from radiation , had preserved their transparency quite unimpaired .
I think then that there is little doubt that under conditions closely resembling those of the interior of a glacier , and under the influence of forces comparable with those which gravity is capable of exerting in a glacier , hand specimens of ice shear in the same manner as a truly viscous solid would do .
IV .
Objections from the supposed Inextensibility of Ice .
It has been objected to the " viscous " theory of glacier motion that if ice is viscous it must be extensible , and that the fact of the formation of crevasses is inconsistent with this supposition .
There is , however , some direct evidence that ice is extensible .
Pfaff found ( " Phil. Mag. , " vol. 1 , pp. 335\#151 ; 336 ) that a bar of ice 52 x 2*5 x 1*3 .cm .
was drawn out to the extent of 1 mm. by the action of a weight of 3 kilos , for five days .
Without laying too much stress upon a single measurement of a somewhat difficult kind , it may safely be said that there is no reason for denying such extensibility .
The formation of crevasses in a glacier is no argument against it .
When a viscous body is extended , its density is not diminished , but simply its form altered .
It cannot extend in one direction unless it is at liberty to contract in a direction at right angles to that of its extension .
It is true that a glacier has always one free surface , but the changes of form of ice under the influence of moderate forces are avowedly very slow .
The formation of crevasses shows that they are too slow to allow the glacier to take its new shape in all cases without rupture .
Nor is this surprising .
An ordinary icefall presents no difficulty when we consider that in order that a glacier may pass without a transverse fissure over a place in which the slope of its bed is increased by 1 ' ( a change which when protracted on paper is hardly 102 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 sensible to the eye ) , its surface must be extended by more than a metre for every 60 metres of vertical thickness of the glacier .
And it is much the same with the system of diagonal crevasses due to differential motion .
It is true that the daily linear extension required to prevent fracture is in such cases usually very small , but a small extension of an inelastic mass like that of a glacier would seem to require molecular displacements which are much more complicated than those involved in a slight yielding of an elastic solid .
If no yielding were possible , systems of diagonal crevasses would be as universal as differential motion .
What is really proved by the often quoted observation of Tyndall ( " Glaciers of the Alps , " 1860 , pp. 317 \#151 ; 18 ) , as to the extreme narrowness of crevasses when they are first formed , is that ice is not capable of any appreciable elastic extension before it gives way .
Such want of elasticity is often very characteristic of viscous as distinguished from strictly solid bodies .
I believe , therefore , that the weight of evidence tends to show that ice at or about 0 ' C. , is just as truly viscous as pitch or sealing-wax at temperatures at which they are brittle but yet capable of yielding to the continuous application of a very moderate force .
The viscosity of ice , however , probably diminishes very rapidly with the temperature .
M. Person ( " Comptes Rendus , " xxx , pp. 526\#151 ; 528 ) , quoted by Forbes , infers from experiments on the latent heat of fusion of ice that ice begins to soften at about \#151 ; 2 ' C. Ice just before it melts appears to be quite soft .
When daring the preparation of the bars for the experiments described in this paper , I had occasion to interrupt for a few minutes my work in the comparatively warm atmosphere of the moraine , I was repeatedly struck by the difference between the sensation caused by the first one or two cuts with the plane , and that experienced after half a millimetre or so of the melting surface had been removed .
Many persons must have noticed the way in which a piece of ordinary clear ice which has been wrapped in a coarse linen cloth on a summer 's day adheres to the cloth , and has the marks of the threads impressed upon it .
It may be said that this is an instance of the lowering of the melting point by pressure and subsequent freezing ; but when it is considered that the phenomenon may be observed when 1 lb. per square inch is a liberal estimate of the pressure exerted , so that the lowering of the freezing point would be about '0005 ' C. , and the melting of 1 mgrm .
of ice would produce sufficient absorption of heat to cool down about 320,000 mgrm .
of ice to the new melting point , it seems more natural to suppose that the ice just before it melts passes into a soft somewhat sticky condition like that of sealing-wax at about 100 ' C. It is scarcely surprising that this condition is not more often obvious , as it is difficult to touch the melting ice with anything which will not convey to it heat enough to produce complete liquefaction .
| jg85 .
] and the Motion of Glaciers .
\#187 ; \#166 ; The supposition that , while ice at 0 ' 0 .
is sensibly viscous , the viscosity diminishes rapidly with the temperature , is in complete accordance with the facts of the changes which take place in a glacier during the winter .
The terminal melting ceases , but the advance of the end of the glacier into the valley is very slow , and possibly ceases altogether in the depth of winter .
Higher up the forward movement of the surface continues , though at a slower rate | than in summer , and though the glacier does not lengthen much in winter , it thickens considerably , and the surface rises , often through many feet , so as to make up ( in a glacier which is neither increasing nor diminishing ) for the enormous surface waste of the summer .
This is exactly what we should expect if the great working mass of the glacier retained the same mobility in winter as in summer , while the surface layers and the extremity had their resistance to change of form very greatly increased .
The whole movement of a glacier in winter is closely parallel to that of a lava stream when it is beginning to cool , when the outer crust and the terminal portion have become solidified while the great mass remains semifluid ; the stream continues to advance , but only slowly , while the lower portions increase in thickness like those of a glacier in winter .
V. Mr. Browne 's Argument from Ice Cliffs .
Mr. Browne in the paper which has been above referred to ( " Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , p. 210 ) brings forward an additional argument in favour of a large shearing strength of ice .
He calculates the shearing strength necessary in order that a vertical ice cliff of a certain height may be able to stand , and finds about 30 lbs. per square inch to be the minimum strength consistent with the existence of ice cliffs 300 feet high .
The argument would be perfectly sound if for u stand " we read " stand permanently , " but as it is put it is liable to the same objections as Canon Moseley 's direct experiments upon shearing .
Crevasses 300 feet deep are said to exist , but an individual crevasse is by no means a long-lived structure .
When the bed of a glacier widens suddenly below a projecting vertical face of rock , we sometimes find a cliff ' bounding the glacier for some little distance below the projection .
It never , however , extends very far , and when the glacier-bed widens gradually the ice spreads out so as to fill the wider bed without any cliff being formed at all .
The spreading out of a glacier like the Rhone Glacier where it emerges , from a gorge on to a comparatively open space , which Mr. Browne strangely enough quotes ( .
cit. , p. 215 ) as favourable to Canon Moseley 's view , is in itself a convincing proof that ice at 0 ' C. will not stand permanently in a vertical cliff of any considerable height ; it gives way gradually , but still it gives way .
Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , VI .
Temperature of Glaciers , and significance of the " .
" Throughout this discussion it has been assumed that the temperature of the great mass of a glacier does not differ much from 0 ' C. It seems desirable to examine the reasons for this assumption , to consider whether it is liable to any important exceptions , and if so to deduce their consequences .
I do not know that there is in what follows much that is substantially novel , or that is seriously controverted , but it may be worth while to formulate in a systematic shape what has hitherto been contained in a number of isolated remarks or suggestions scattered through glacier literature .
It is obvious that no part of a glacier can be at a higher temperature than 0 ' C. , for the simple reason that ice or snow cannot exist at a higher temperature .
The snow which is the ultimate source of the glacier ice falls at temperatures which may vary from 0 ' C. downwards .
Snow weather is , however , not usually very cold weather , and it is probable that falls of snow at a very low temperature are exceptional .
The surface of a glacier may sometimes become very cold by radiation , but ice is a very bad conductor of heat , and dry snow is still worse .
There is no reason to suppose that the cold of a summer night can penetrate many inches into the glacier , and it is improbable that the cold of winter can be felt at more than a few feet below the surface , since the whole glacier is in winter covered with snow .
On the other hand , on a warm summer day a very large amount of heat is absorbed in the upper layers of a glacier , and is carried into the lower layers by the water which sinks into the mass .
It is clear that so long as water at 0 ' C. sinks through snow or neve at 0 ' C. , it will descend unchanged , neither giving up nor receiving heat .
When it meets with snow or neve at a lower temperature , it will be partially frozen , and its latent heat of freezing will warm the snow or neve up to 0 ' C. Forbes found ( " Eleventh Letter on Glaciers , " Edinburgh , " New Philosophical Journal , " October , 1846 , reprinted in " Occasional Papers , " pp. 169 , 170 ) that the mean daily waste of the surface of the Mer de Glace opposite the Montan vert during hot weather in July and August , 1846 , was 3'62 inches per day , while higher up between 1'Angle and Trelaporte it was 2'73 inches .
Now as the latent heat of fusion of ice is about 80 calories , and the specific heat of ice about -5 , the heat required to melt a cubic inch of ice would raise about 160 cubic inches through 1 ' C. No doubt in the upper regions of neve the heat absorbed is a good deal less ; the air is colder , and a smaller proportion of the solar radiation enters , and is absorbed by , the glacier .
On the other hand , in these regions the whole of the water produced by melting must sink into the glacier , 1885 .
] and the Motion of Glaciers .
and its latent heat of fusion must be used in warming the glacier so long as any stratum is below 0 ' C. The amount of heat which reaches the glacier from the interior of the earth is no doubt insignificant in amount when compared with that which reaches the upper surface of the glacier , but it is important as necessarily warming and eventually melting the lowest stratum of the glacier .
Forbes ( " Travels in the Alps , " 1843 , p. 364 ) quotes an estimate of M. Elie de Beaumont , according to which the annual flow is sufficient to melt about 6^ mm. of ice .
This would be sufficient to raise about 1'040 metres of ice 1 ' C. Considering that the winter 's cold cannot possibly penetrate to the bed of the glacier , this is quite sufficient to ensure that the lowest stratum shall be at the temperature of about 0 ' C. I cannot lay my hand upon any more recent estimates of the flow of central heat from the earth , but I believe that M. de Beaumont 's would be regarded as correct at least so far as the order of magnitude is concerned .
We may say then with confidence that the ice which rests directly upon the bed of the glacier is at the temperature of fusion corresponding to the pressure at the spot , i.e. , usually very slightly below 0 ' C. Neglecting these small variations , and leaving out of consideration for the present the extreme upper portion of the glacier , we may say that the surface of contact of a glacier and its bed is part of an isothermal surface of 0 ' C. The upper surface of the glacier during a summer 's day , when melting is everywhere going on , must also be an isothermal surface of 0 ' 0 .
At night this upper isothermal will descend a few inches into the ice , and in winter perhaps a few feet .
The portions above this upper isothermal will be at temperatures below 0 ' C. Disregarding as before the small differences of melting point due to pressure , there can be little doubt that throughout the lower part of the glacier the whole space between these isothermal surfaces will be filled with ice at 0 ' 0 .
In the upper portions of the never it is possible that there may be one or more regions in which the temperature is below 0 ' C. These will be bounded by isothermals of 0 ' C. , which in summer will necessarily be closed surfaces , except possibly at the extreme upper end of the glacier ; in winter they may be in some places continuous with the cold region above the main upper isothermal of 0 ' 0 .
We may now consider the state of things near the extreme upper limit of the glacier .
In a large number of instances the never basin which forms the upper reservoir of the glacier is bounded by a steep and comparatively narrow rocky ridge , against the lower part of which a relatively shallow mass of never or snow rests at a high angle ; the other side of the ridge is very frequently the boundary of another glacier .
The mean temperature of the air at such elevations is low , and though the 106 Rev. C. Trotter .
Physical Properties of Ice [ Jan. 29 , rocks will in some places and at some times receive and absorb a large amount of solar radiation , they will also radiate freely into space .
The amount of central heat flowing into such a wedge of rock through its comparatively narrow base cannot be large , and there can be little doubt that the mean temperature of the upper portions of such a ridge will be below 0 ' C. It seems clear that in such a case the isothermal surface of 0 ' C. which follows the common surface of the glacier and its bed , must somewhere leave the surface of the rock and strike across the ridge , so as to be continuous with the isothermal surface at the lower surface of the glacier on the opposite side .
In such a case the most probable point for the isothermal to leave the surface of the rock will be about the place where the ridge begins to rise steeply .
The winter isothermal of 0 ' C. within the rock will be below , but probably not far distant from the summer one .
Now in such a typical system of glaciers as I have been describing there is almost invariably a deep chasm in the never at about the point at which I have supposed the isothermal to leave the surface of the rock .
This chasm , which penetrates obliquely into the never , and is often nearly continuous for long distances , is familiar in Alpine literature as the " Bergschrund .
" Fig. 3 .
In the annexed diagram , A is the rock of supposed mean temperature greater than 0 ' C. ; B the rock of supposed mean temperature less than 0 ' C. ; C the never ; D the " Bergschrund .
" The dotted lines give the trace upon the plane of the paper of the supposed winter and summer isothermals of 0 ' C. I am not aware that any observations of the motion of the extreme upper portions of a glacier have been made , but I do not think that any one who is familiar with glacier scenery will have much doubt that the " Bergschrund " marks the limit between the moving and the 1885.1 and the Motion of Glaciers .
fixed parts of the glacier .
It appears that the snow or never above the " Bergschrand " does not move downwards as a glacier , but that the snow which falls upon it slides down from time to time in avalanches over the surface , usually choking up the " Bergschrund " in the spring .
On the other hand , everything below the " Bergschrund " moves forward , slowly indeed but still moves forward , with the glacier .
There is , however , no marked difference , at any rate in the'conditions of the surface layers , between the snow or never above and below the " Bergschrund , " so that it seems at first sight paradoxical that the never on the steep slopes should remain at rest while that on the less steep slope below is in motion .
I believe the essential difference to be in the temperature of the lowest stratum which is in contact with the rock .
When the temperature is 0 ' 0 .
the never is soft and viscous , and therefore yields gradually even to a very moderate pressure .
The forces acting upon the lower stratum of never in the upper and steeper portions are greater , but the never in contact with the rock is hard frozen and unyielding .
No doubt the never above the " Bergschrund " is usually of comparatively small depth , but even a comparatively thin layer of never will advance slowly in true glacier fashion when it rests upon a gently sloping bed in the hollow of a mountain side , and so receives enough central heat to keep the lowest stratum in a soft condition .
This is well seen in some of the so-called glaciers of the second order .
If the regipns of never below 0 ' C. which have been previously spoken of exist in the moving portion of the glacier , they may not improbably move on with very little change of form , riding as it were upon the warmer and softer substance below .
Before they can reach the lower part of the glacier and be transformed by regelation into compact ice their temperatures must have risen to 0 ' C. , and they cannot again fall below this temperature except close to the surface of the glacier .
VII .
Concluding Remarks .
The general result of the foregoing paper seems to be that the fuller consideration of the physical properties of glacier ice leads to essentially the same conclusions as those to which Forbes was led forty years ago by the study of the larger phenomena of glacier motion\#151 ; that is , that the motion is that of a slightly viscous mass partly sliding upon its bed , partly shearing upon itself under the influence of gravity .
To say this is , however , by no means to deny the importance of regelation in the economy of a glacier .
To regelation mainly we must attribute the gradual passage of snow through the form of never into ice , the healing of crevasses , and the possibility of comparatively rapid and violent changes of form in portions of a 108 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
The Structure and Hhythm [ Jan. 29 , glacier in which unusually powerful forces may be supposed to be at work .
Moseley 's argument , however , seems to be decisive against the belief that the ordinary comparatively undisturbed descent of a glacier along a moderately sloping bed takes place by fracture and regelation .
Moseley 's value of the shearing strength of ice , which has been shown to be enormously too great as a measure of the resistance of ice to slow shearing , would appear on the other hand to be an inferior limit to the resistance to the shearing fracture which must precede regelation .
Moseley has at any rate done good service by calling attention to the comparatively small intensity of the shearing force of gravity in the ordinary descent of a glacier .
It would hardly have occurred to one fresh from the study of Forbes to look for evidence of the viscosity of ice in hand specimens exposed to moderate shearing forces in a laboratory .
II .
" On the Structure and Rhythm of the Heart in Fishes , with especial reference to the Heart of the Eel .
" By J. A. McWilliam , M.D. , Demonstrator of Physiology in University College , London .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 14 , 1885 .
I. On the General Arrangement and Structure of the J Heart .
The pulsation of the eel 's heart can easily be seen externally on the ventral surface of the body a short way behind the pectoral fins .
There are no rigid structures of any kind between the integument and the heart .
When the very tough and resistant skin is cut through and the great lateral muscles are separated from each other , the pericardium is seen , loosely adherent to the surrounding tissues .
The pericardial cavity being laid open , the various parts of the heart , abundantly lubricated with fluid , come into view .
The organ is not freely suspended in the pericardial chamber , but is attached to the walls of that chamber by numerous and considerable bands , which vary in size and arrangement .
The bands connected with the ventricle pass chiefly to the lateral and dorsal aspects of that part j they generally communicate with one another , forming a plexiform arrangement , and they tend materially to restrict the locomotion of the organ during systole .
These bands are for the most part fibrous ; they convey , however , large blood-vessels to the ventricle .
These blood-vessels come from the dorsal part of the pericardial chamber and climb up in the fibrous bands on to the moving ventricle to

