]\gt ; 472 Sir B. C. odie on the Action of Electricity on Gases .
the operator of being to instantaneously cool and any time , by dipping the whole in a cup of water .
Aluminium foil as a support .
89 .
It has been found that pieces or strips of aluminium three inches long , withstand the strongest heat of the fusing as well as platinum does , over which the former metal advantage , many metals , as gold , silver , alloys , may be fused upon it without the least fear of combination .
It is thus possible to use this beautiful metal as a support to fuse most other metals , alloys , or metalliferous ores wrapped of soda paper , instead of upon charcoal\mdash ; the advantages being portability , and even economy , for one strip will last out any pieces of charcoal .
It is rapidly attacked , however , by chlorides phates .
90 .
[ Minerals hcated in P. P. upon Al .
foil afford indications of some oxides , which on charcoal would be as , , Ifupfer niclcel and Speisscobalt , which thus fine green oxide\mdash ; " " emerald nickel ( 6th August , 1872 XV .
ction olectricity Gases Bart. , F.R.S. , Hon. D.C.L. Oxon .
, late of in the University of Oxford .
1872 .
Abstract .
This memoir , which is intended to be the first of three as to the action of electricity on gases , is devoted to the the changes produced by the action of electricity on oxygen by the changes thus effected in its chemical properties .
The memoir is divided into four sections .
Section I. contains an account of the methods employed collecting , and preserviug the electrized , and also of apparatus employed for estimaling the changes in the electrized gas effected in the various experiments subsequently The gas , carefully dried , was submitted to the action of causing a current of the gas to pass through the induction-tube the interior of which was filled with tvater or ( where a low desired ) with a saline solution .
The tube was placed in a der containing water or a refrigerating.mixture .
The interior of the tube were respectively connected with the terminals Ruhmkortf 's coil .
The electrized gas , after its passage duction-tube , was collected , in a gas-holder of concentrated sulphuric acid .
It may be thus preserved without sensible variation in its pl'operties .
Brodic on the Action of Electriciiy on Gases .
473 the changes in volume produced by the experiment , pipette-measurement which has been so successfully emfor the measurement of liquids .
In this a con(say from 250 to 300 .
centims. ) may be measured with Adefinitevolume ofgas was thus always operated upon .
been mensured in the pipette was drawn over by aspirator , an instrument which served the double purpose of measurimg-apparatus .
The inciple of this aspirator was employed in the apparatus of Regn measuring the namel .
, the estimation of the pressure and temperature occupied a known space , from which the volume of the temperature and pressure was cnlculated .
By means of change in the volume of the electrized gas , to the extent of 1000 , could be accurately estimated that is to say , after the apparatus , 1000 volumes of gas as sured in the to measure olumes in the aspirator .
These the errors of the experiment , and any differenccs in beyond this limit must be considered to be due to the which the gas was submitted .
The pipette and the aspirator table , separated by interval of abont 8 or 10 inches .
the results are given of passing the electrized gas through neutral iodide of potassium , also of heating the gas , ofpassing met silver , copper , gold , aluminium , and binoxide of manthe decomposition of a solution ofbinoxide of sodium effected the gas , a quantitative estimation of the in and the oxidation effected being in all cases made .
in such experiments may be estimated by the reof the gas before and after its passage through a of potassiun , .
As the mean of eight conoordant centims. ofgas , as measured in the pipette , were to measure .
centims. in the aspirator .
An in the solution ofneutral iodide of potassium equivnlent of oxygen ; that is to say , .
centims. ofoxygen from the gas without an appreciable tion in its voofthe gas thus absorbed by neutral iodide of potassium experiments assumed as the unit to which other analoreferred .
gas is passed through a solution of binoxide of curs in the volume of the gas .
Thus in two experithe volume of the gas , as estimated from the in the pipette and the aspirator , was just explained ) being taken ?
; and the ratio lost by the binoxide of sodium ( as estimated by of binoxide of sodium before and after the experland the titre of the gas to the titre of the gas 474 .
B. C. Brodie on the Action of Electricity on Gases .
was in the same ents 2 In two other same ratio was ; the reaction being analogous to position of binoxide of sodium by ferrocy nide of potassium , and of lrogen by permanganic acid , previously investigated by Section III .
comprises an account of the action of the a solution of hydriodic acid , strongly aline hyposulphite of sulphide of sodium , and other substances .
In the case of the passage of the gas through a solution of the oxidation effected ( after a certain degree of concentration been attained ) is exactly twice the oxidation effected by in a solution of the neutral iodide of potassium .
The mean experiments gave as the amount ofoxygen employed in the the hydriodic acid as compared with the " " titre\ldquo ; of the gas .
experiments exhibit no inconsiderable differences ; but the the resuIt , as estimated by the method ofleast squares , is ; from these experiments alone , without introducing any ations whatever , it is an equal chance that the true value of the lies between the values and .
The value indicated theory is 2 , with which theory , therefore , the experiments The action of the gas upon a strongly alkaline solution of of soda is precisely of the same character .
The volume of sured before and after the experiment , and a contraction was equal in amount to the " " titre\ldquo ; of the gas .
The mean of periments gave as the amount of this contraction .
oxidizing properties cf the ozone are entirely destroyed by through the solution ; and it is to be inferred that while the volume is equal to the " " titre\ldquo ; of the gas , the oxidation in the previous case , is the same as which would be of oxygen equal to vice the " " titre\ldquo ; of the gas .
Experiments made with a solution of polysulphide of similar result .
Section .
comprises various experiments made with and slightly alkaline hyposulphite of soda , with oil of protocbloride of tin .
The experiments with neutral and slightly alkaline were conducted precisely in the same manner as the in Section , with the strongly alkaline hyposulphite .
The ever , is very different , the coutraction in this case being equal to twice the " " titre\ldquo ; of the gas .
The mean of 17 experiments the neutral hyposulphite gave as the value of this the mean of 10 experiments made with the slightly alkaline gave for it the same value .
It is hence to be inferred that the oxidation effected in equal in amount to three times the oxidation effected by the neutral iodide of potassium .
ookes on the Atomic Weight of Thallium .
475 made with oil of turpentine entirely confirmed the to the amount of contraction which the gas undergoes by this substance , the mean of eight experiments giving of the contraction .
of the effect due to the action of the electrized gas upon of tin is attended with considerable difficulty , from the cirthat a solution of protochloride of tin is readily oxidized by the of pure oxygen .
The difficulty was met in two ways , both of which to the same conclusion , \mdash ; namely , by applying a correction for the oxidation effected by the oxygen with which the ozone lvas associated , and by very dilute solutions of the protochloride of tin in which this oxidation is reduced to a minimum .
In two experiments ] ducted on the Iatter principle , and iu which the oxidation , as well as the contraction , was experimentally determined , the value of the contraction was found to be and 233 , while the oxidation in the two experiments respectively was and Using the notation employed by the author in a previous communication* to the Royal Society , and putting as the symbol of the unit ( that is of centim. at and 760 millims. ) of oxygen , and putting ] as the of that simple weight transferred to the oxidized substance in the oxidations effected by the ozone , and further assuming that ozone regarded as some denser form of oxygen , to the unit of which the where is a positive integer ) is to be assigned , the result system of experiments of which the account is given in this be expressed , so far as regards the distribution of the matter of the ozone , in the various reactions by the general equation positive integels .
of the various hypotheses originating in this equation conclusion that the hypothesis that the unit of ozone is comsimple , and is to be symbohzeCl as , is both nesufficient for the explanation of the total system of phenomena , other hypothesis of the order referred to is tenable .
on the Atomic Weight of Thallium By WILLIAM F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received June ] , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) February 1863 , I had the honour to lay beforc the on the subject of the then newly discovered I gave an account of its occurrence , distribution , from the ore , together lvith its physical Operations by Sir B. C. Brodie , , FRS ,

