352 Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Feb. 20 , Fig. 5 .
From this experience I think we may consider that at an exhaustion of a millionth of an atmosphere , air is an absolute non-conductor of statical electricity .
It is , therefore , legitimate to conclude that the vacuum of interstellar space offers equal obstruction to the discharge of electrified bodies , without necessarily interfering with their mutual repulsion if similarly electrified .
It is possible that in these facts an explanation may be found of some obscure celestial phenomena .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" No. IV .
By G. D. Liveing , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 12 , 1879 .
In the experiments described in the following communication , instead , of introducing the substances to be observed in the metallic form into our tubes , we have endeavoured to overcome , to some extent , the difficulty of the presence of impurities by making use of reactions which should generate the metallic vapours within the tubes .
For this purpose we have generally employed the great reducing power of carbon and of aluminium at high temperatures .
In a former communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii ) we described the reversal of the two blue lines of caesium and the two violet lines of rubidium by the vapours of those metals , produced by heating their chlorides with sodium in glass tubes .
It might be doubtful from these experiments whether the absorption were due to the metals or to the chlorides .
To decide this question , we first tried| caesium chloride by itself , heated in a tube such as we used before .
No absorption lines could be seen , although a good deal of the chloride had been vaporized and distilled to the cool part of the tube .
-The experiments were next repeated , both with rubidium and caesium 1879.1 on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic .
353 chlorides along with metallic lithium .
The two violet lines of rubidium and the two blue lines of caesium were reversed , as when sodium was ised instead of lithium , and as the lithium gave no sensible vapour , the observations could easily be continued for a much longer time with the same tubes .
No other absorption lines could be discerned .
It may be observed , however , that it is not easy to obtain a source of light sufficiently rich in the least refrangible red to allow of observations on the absorption of light so little refrangible as the red rubidium lines .
A platinum wire , heated nearly to fusion by an electric current , appeared to give the brightest light in this part of the spectrum , but of that light no definite absorption by the rubidium could be observed in the red .
We then had some mixtures of carbonate of caesium with carbon , and of carbonate of rubidium with carbon , prepared by charring the tartrates ; and observed the results of heating these mixtures in narrow porcelain tubes , placed vertically in a furnace , as described in our first communication on this subject ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii ) .
A small quantity of the caesium mixture , introduced into a tube at a bright red heat , showed instantly the two blue lines reversed and so much expanded as to be almost in contact .
The width of the dark lines decreased as the caesium evaporated , but they remained quite distinct for a very long time .
A similar effect was produced by the rubidium mixture , only it was necessary to have the tube very much hotter , in order to get enough of violet light to see the reversal of the rubidium lines .
In this case the two lines were so much expanded as to form one broad dark band , - which gradually resolved itself into two as the rubidium evaporated .
The reversal of these lines of caesium and rubidium seems to take place almost or quite as readily as that of the D lines by sodium , and the vapours of those metals must be extremely opaque to the light of the refrangibility absorbed , for the absorption was conspicuous when only very minute quantities of the metals were present .
The red , yellow , and green parts of the spectrum were carefully searched for absorption lines , but none due to caesium or rubidium could be detected in any vcase .
It is perhaps worthy of remark that the liberation of such extremely electro-positive elements as caesium and rubidium from their chlorides by sodium and by lithium , though it is probably only partial , is a proof , if proof were wanting , that so-called chemical affinity only takes a part in determining the grouping of the elements in such mixtures ; and it is probable that the equilibrium arrived at in any such case is a dynamical or mobile equilibrium , continually varying with change of temperature .
Our next experiments were with charred cream of tartar in iron tubes , arranged as before .
In this case a broad absorption band appeared , extending over the space from about wave-length 5,700 to 5,775 , and in some cases still wider , with edges ill-defined , especially the more refrangible edge .
By placing the charred cream of tartar in Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Feb. 20r the tube before it was introduced into the furnace , and watching the increase of light as the tube got hot , this band was at first seen bright on a less bright background , it gradually faded , and then came out again reversed , and remained so .
No very high temperature was required for this , but a rise of temperature had the effect of widening the band .
Besides this absorption , there appeared a very indefinite faint absorp .
tion in the red , with the centre at a wave-length of about 6,100 , and a dark band , with a tolerably well-defined edge on the less refrangible side , at about a wave-length of 4,850 , shading away towards the violet .
A fainter dark band was sometimes seen beyond , with a wave-length of about 4,645 ; but sometimes the light seemed abruptly terminated at about wave-length 4,850 .
It will be noticed that these absorptions are not the same as those seen when potassium is heated in hydrogen , nor do they correspond with known emission lines of potassium , although the first , which is also the most conspicuous and regularly visible of these absorptions , is very near a group of three bright lines of potassium .
It seemed probable that they might be due to a combination of potassium with carbonic oxide .
We tried the effect of heating potassium in carbonic oxide in glass tubes , but , though the potassium united readily with the gas , the compound did not appear to volatilize at a dull red heat , and no absorption , not even that which potassium gives when heated in nitrogen under similar circumstances , could be seen .
We then tried induction sparks between an electrode of potassium and one of platinum iu an atmosphere of carbonic oxide .
The usual bright lines of potassium were seen , and also a bright band , identical in position with the above-mentioned band , between wave-lengths about 5,700 and 5,775 .
This band could not be seen when hydrogen was substituted for carbonic oxide .
A mixture of sodium carbonate and charred sugar , heated in an iron tube , gave only the same absorption as sodium in hydrogen .
There were also no indications of any absorption due to a compound of rubidium or of caesium with carbonic oxide .
The experiments of Mallet ( " Chem. Soc. J1876 ) on the tility of calcium , strontium , and barium , and the reducing action of aluminium on the oxides , especially in the presence of carbonate of sodium , induced us to try similar mixtures in our tubes .
A mixture of barium carbonate , aluminium filings , and lamp-blaek , heated in a porcelain tube , gave two absorption lines in the green , corresponding in position to bright lines seen when sparks are from a solution of barium chloride , at wave-lengths 5,242 and 5 , \gt ; marked a and / 3 by Lecoq de Boisbaudran .
These two absorption were very persistent , and were produced on several occasions .
* third absorption line , corresponding to line $ of Boisbaudran , wa8 sometimes seen , and on one occasion , when the temperature w high as could be obtained in the furnace fed with Welsh coal , an \#174 ; 119 .
] on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
355 tjlfcure of charred barium tartrate with aluminium was used , a ibith dark line was seen with wave-length 5,535 .
This line was very ha and sharply defined , whereas the other three lines were ill-defined afehe edges ; it is , moreover , the only one of the four which corre-,.pids to a bright line of metallic barium .
k Repeated experiments with charred tartrates of calcium and of stmtium mixed with aluminium gave no results , but on one oc-\lt ; \gt ; 4ion , when some sodium carbonate was used along with the charred titrate of strontium and aluminium , the blue line of strontium was reversed , and on another occasion , when a mixture of charred iassium , calcium , and strontium tartrates , and aluminium was riel , the calcium line , with wave-length 4,226 , was seen reversed , :\#174 ; fire in this case was fed with gas retort carbon , and the tem-irnture such that iron tubes , though well coated with fire-clay , gave wr in a few minutes .
It appears , therefore , that the blue line of gfcntium , and the above-mentioned violet line of calcium , are reverse by this method , but not so easily or so certainly as the lines of bsium or its compounds above mentioned .
n order to obtain higher temperatures than we could obtain in the r mace used in our former experiments , we have made preliminary Eteriments with lime crucibles heated ( 1 ) by a jet of coal-gas and .rgen ; ( 2 ) by the electric arc .
For this purpose a block of chalk adime had a vertical tubular hole bored into it about 6 or 7 millims. in dmeter , and for the gas jet a second lateral boring , meeting the o'er boring at the bottom ( fig. !
) .
For the electric arc two lateral Fio .
1 .
brings are made on opposite sides of the block , meeting the vertical Iring at its bottom ( fig. 2 ) .
Above the crucible we place a mirror i dined at 45 ' , so as to reflect the light from the vertical boring on t the slit of a spectroscope , a plate of mica being interposed Ifcween the mirror and crucible to deflect the stream of hot gas and Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Feb. 20 , catch the smoke , which would otherwise soon dim the surface of the t mirror .
Fig- .
2 .
Carbon Electrode .
Carbon \Electrode With the jet of coal-gas and oxygen the usual green and orange bands of lime and the violet line of calcium ( wave-length 4,226 ) were-seen bright on the continuous spectrum , and on dropping in some aluminium their brightness increased at the same time that a dark line appeared in the middle of both the orange and green band .
This dark line speedily disappeared in the case of the orange band , bat lasted longer in the green band .
When some lithium carbonate was-put into the crucible and the coal-gas turned on so as to be in excess , the red lithium line was reversed , appearing slightly expanded with a black line down the middle .
For the electric arc 25 Grove 's cells were used , and the carbon poles introduced through the lateral openings , so as to meet at the bottom of the vertical boring of the lime crucible .
A very brilliant spectrum of bright lines was produced on bringing the poles in contact , while a copious stream of vapours ascended the tube .
On drawing apart the poles , which could be done for nearly an inch without stopping the current , the calcium line ( wave-length 4,226 ) was seen reversed .
On dropping some aluminium into the crucible the calcium line just mentioned was very much expanded , and appeared with a broad black line in the middle .
The other calcium lines in the neighbourhood on the less refrangible side were also expanded considerably , but were not seen reversed .
The more refrangible lines ( Fraunhofer 's H ) , however , remained sharply defined , and did hot appear sensibly expanded or reversed .
On introducing some strontia the blue strontium line ( wave-length 4,607 ) was immediately seen reversed , appearing as a broadish bright band , with a dark line in the middle .
There were no indications of the reversal of any other strontium line , though the more refrangible1 lines were conspicuously bright .
1879.1 on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic .
357 .
When lithium carbonate was introduced the red line was at once seen reversed , hut not much expanded .
When some aluminium was added , the lithium blue line ( wave-length 4,604 ) was seen with a dark line in the middle for a short time only .
The green line of lithium was very bright indeed , and appeared somewhat expanded on the addition of aluminium , but showed no reversal .
On putting some baryta into the crucible the line with wave-length 5,535 was reversed , appearing very black but narrow .
No other barium line could be seen reversed in that crucible , but in another crucible into which magnesia had been introduced , a dark line , with wave-length about 4,930 , was observed , which may probably be ascribed to barium .
With magnesia and aluminium the least refrangible of the h group was seen reversed , all the b group being expanded .
When silver was introduced , on drawing the poles apart , both the brightest green lines ( wave-lengths 5,464 and 5,209 ) were seen for a short time with a black line down the middle .
Frequently on parting the poles , whatever might be the substance in the crucible , the whole of the brightest part of the spectrum , from the orange to the blue , appeared filled with dark lines , all equidistant and equally dark , like a fine grating .
With a high dispersion these lines are seen to be ill-defined at the edges .
We can only suppose them to be a banded spectrum of some compound of carbon .
The lime crucibles are very quickly destroyed , but we hope to get some more compact lime than we have hitherto had , and to employ a more powerful electric current .
The use of carbon or magnesia for crucibles will , we anticipate , enable experiments of this kind to be extended much further , and applied to various reactions taking place at the temperature of the arc .
In the case of carbon crucibles the block of carbon itself will form one electrode , the other electrode Fig. 3 .
Messrs. W. H. Preece and A. Stroh .
[ Feb. 27 passing through a tube of lime as in ( fig. 3 ) .
It is our intention to try a combination of the electric arc and induction spark in these crucibles .
It is hardly necessary to note that the projection of the reversals of the lines of metallic vapours may be effected by this method better than by any method heretofore in use .
February 27 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Major-General Thuillier ( elected 1869 ) was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Studies in Acoustics .
I. On the Synthetic Examination of Vowel Sounds .
" By William Henry Preeoe and Augustus Stroh .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 17 , 1879 .
[ Pl/ ATES 6 , 7 .
] 1 .
The authors of this paper have devoted much time during the past twelve months to a study of sonorous vibrations and the reproduction of speech .
The invention of the phonograph has proved a great stimulus to this study .
Many have worked in the same field , and many of the facts elicited by the authors have been anticipated by those who have been able to give more continuous study to the subject .
Nevertheless , the mode of enquiry , the apparatus employed , and the results obtained are thought to be of sufficient novelty to justify their being brought before the Royal Society .
2 .
The curves traced by the vibrating disk of the phonograph on tinfoil , whether examined microscopically or reproduced by a species of pantelograph , were soon found to be insufficiently delicate to give the nicer shades of sound , and to fail to indicate the true curve of vibrations in all cases .
This is shown by the imperfect reproduction of speech by the phonograph itself ; the merging of the labial and dental sounds into one another , and the absence of all the sibilants and generally of the " noises " of speech .
The phonograph is in reality a very imperfect speaker , and it requires the aid of much imagination and considerable guessing to follow its reproductions .
It produces

