]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. on J. ASHWORTH , M. Sc. ( Vict .
) .
nunicated by A. SCHUSTER , F. Received Jannary 30 , \mdash ; Read hIarch 6 , 1902 .
ed in revised form August 12 , PART I. THE INFLUENCE CHANGES 0F 0N MAGNETIS } 1 .
Introductory . . . . . . . . . . .
Influence of dimension ratio on residual magnetic intensity ( I ) , temperature coefficient , and permanent change . . . . .
2 3 , 4 , 5 .
Influence of annealing , tempering , and drawing on . . . .
6 6 .
Influence of annealing , tempering , and drawing on I. . . . . .
9 7 .
Effect of rest in improving the drawing qualities of steel . . . . .
9 8 , 9 , 10 .
Curves of cyclic magnetisation 01 drawn steel , cold and hot , and their application to temperature coefficients . . . .
10 11 .
Relation of temperature coefficient to intensity when induced . . . . . . . .
11 12 .
Relation of temperature coefficient to intensity when residual . . . . .
13 13 .
Repetition of S12 with demagnetisation between each step . . . . .
15 14 .
Similar experiments upon iron . . . . .
16 15 .
Relation of susceptibility to and in drawn steel and in iron . . . . .
17 16 .
Application of results to the construction of permanent magnets . . . . .
19 17 .
Time tests of I on drawn steel magnets . . . . .
20 18 .
Similar tests on tempered drawn steel magnets . . . .
1 .
THE experiments which are included in this pari are the outcome of a former investigation , and relate chiefly to the influence of drawing on the magnetism of steel wires and its changes with moderate fluctuations of temperature .
The effect of alterations of temperature on the residual magnetism of steel was examined many years ago by WIEDEMANN .
His experiments , which have often been repeated , show that on heating a magnet to the temperature of steam much of the magnetism disappears , but that on cooling part of the magnetism so lost is restored ; at each repetition of the heating and cooling the permanent loss becomes less and less , and ultimately the magnetic intensity fluctuates between two definite values , higher and lower intensities corresponding to lower and higher temperatures respectively .
The VOL. CCI .
113 .
:(( .
of intensity in this cyclic state is nearly linear function ) the ) erature , relation ) and are the lnagnetic intensities at the higher and lower temperatures and , and is a coefficient which , in general , is negative .
For a given range of temperature*the irreversible part of the change may be ressed by the equation , where and are initial and final intensities .
Hitherto , ahnost without exception , , for residual magnetism , has been found to be negative , that is to say , there is a permanent loss of magnetism as result of repetitions of heating and cooling .
The magnitude of both ries considerably , but the conditions which determine the magnitude have not been exhaustively examined .
Some of these conditions are investigated here , and it will be shown that under certain well-defined circumstances the coefficients and may change sign .
2 .
In a former paper it was proved that the dimension ratio of a magnet govel.ning its demagnetising factor controls to a large extent the magnitude and even the sign of the coefficient .
The experiments then made were carried out on pianoforte drawn steel in the commercial state , but they have now been extended to steel in other conditions , and the results are given in Table I. , from which Diagrams I. and II .
are plotted .
In the experiments in this paper the range of temperature is from to C. .
Soc. Proc , p. 210 .
Throughout this paper all numerical results are expressed in .
units and in degrees tigradc ON STELL .
.3 TABLE I.\mdash ; Relation of Dimension to Maguetic Intensity its oefficient in Steel Wire .
Wire .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
Dimension rDemag nPermanent 1sity iyPermanent 1Intensi fPermanent 1Temperature coeffi.cient ( rature coefficient ( Intensity fyIntensi iPern anent 1Temperature cJeng .
0 .
b02 .
Piano Steel Wire .
Oimension Ratio .
The relation of magneti emperature coefficient to dimenion ratio .
IENTAL IESEARCHES ON II .
Steel The relation of residual magnetic intensity to dimension ratio .
It was also shown , and it can be seen from the table and diagram , that a rise of temperature in the cyclic state increases the magnstic intensity , and a fall of temperature diminishes it in the case of a magnet of large dimension ratio constructed of drawn steel of the kind supplied for pianofortes , contrary to what is ordinarily observed .
The results of these experiments , and of others which eed not here be introduced , llI)on a number of steels of different chemical composition , as well as the fact that stretching simply does not produce any mal.ked change in the temperature coefficient , strengthen the conjecture that the abnormal effect is due to repeated drawing .
* Knitting needle and pinion wires do yield this effect , they are eated differently to music wire in the process of drawing . .
J. : In itely t test this conclusion , it was necessary to mples drawn finel ' finel one original piece , and Messl .
S. W. SMITH , of , kindly undertook to supply them .
The first delivery which came to hand was drawn successively from a wire about centim. in diameter , ance of the wire being like this : material of whole was one and the same , and the only difference between one part and another was the amount of traction which had been applied .
Lengths were cut off from every stage in the drawing , so that each piece was 100 times longer than its diameter , and all were separately magnetised between the poles of a erful electromagnet and then immediately examined for magnetic properties .
The coefficient which , at the first , is incremental ( marked in Table II .
with the Il.\mdash ; Residual Magnetic Intensity and Temperature Coefficient for Successive Amounts of tion .
Fine Piano Wire .
positive ) , becomes not more so , but less so as the drawing proceeds , and is finally only half as large as at the beginning , and it seems as if extreme traction might ultimately reduce it to zero .
This unexpected result indicates that , if drawing produces the abnormal effect , there must be some stage earlier than the first of this series where a maximum incremental coefficient would be developed .
It became necessary again to apply to Messrs. W. SMITH and SONS to prepare for me a complete set of drawn successively as before , but beginning now at the rough * In a previous paper on this subject Proc opposite convention was employed in regard to the sign , following an older usage , EXPERIMENTAL CHES rod as received from the olling mill , some this set of nples eceived .
The whole series comprised in the of fnJe as follows:4 .
( 1 ) Rolled Rod.\mdash ; This is produced trom a billet of good ShefJield containing less than 1 per cent. of carbon .
It is passed whilst hot successively through a number of rolls until its diameter is about centim. ; the hot rod is finally coiled in a heap , and so cools quickly in the open air .
( 2 ) Rod Annealed.\mdash ; The rod as received from the lnill is now annealed by enclosing it in pots from which air is excluded ; these pots are heated in a furnace to a bright red heat , at which point the firing is stayed and the fire is allowed to die out .
This operation occupies 24 hours .
( 3 ) Rod Hard Drawn.\mdash ; In this stage the annealed is forcibly drawn through a perforated plate , which at on ce reduces the sectional area by about 50 per cent. ; the rod becomes hard .
( 4 ) Rod Tempered.\mdash ; The process to which the rod is next submitted is sometimes called " " patenting\ldquo ; or " " improving It is carried out in different ways by different manufacturers , but in these wires it consisted in heating uniformly to a bright red heat in absence of air , and afterwards cooling slowly in a special chamber at a moderate temperature .
( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) Wire Cold \mdash ; The tempered wire is drawn through smaller and smaller holes in the draw plate , the sectional area being reduced each time by about 40 per cent. of its ) receding value ; the diameter in these specimens is in this way diminished to centim. at the 8th stage .
( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) The succeeding wires are now all drawn from No. 8 directly and do 1lot pass through every intermediate hole ; thus No. 10 is not No. 9 drawn one hole smaller , but is No. 8 reduced at once by a single drawing , and similarly for the others , except , perhaps , No. 12 , which probably passed through stage 9 or 10 .
These facts relating to the drawing of the last three stages are worthy of notice , as the results of a number of experi1nents on these wires show some irregularity in the progressive chaJlge of their physical properties in the final stages , and the method of drawing in these stages may in part account for the irregularity .
5 .
The samples illustrating the twelve stages were not long enough to allow the thickest of them to be made more than 50 diameters long , and this fixed the dimension ratio for the whole series , but an additional series , from No. 5 upwards , was cut to a oeion ratio of 100 .
All the wires were magnetised in the same way between the poles of a powerful electromagnet , and then immediately examined for magnetic intensity , and its changes under variations of temperature , with the apparatus formerly described .
* The results , which given in Table III .
, and plotted in Diagram III .
, disclose several facts ; thus rolling hot and ' vol. 62 , II1 .
netic Iture Coeflicieot , manent Successive Stages in the ] of a Steel Rod to Fine Wire .
Diagram III .
Area in sq .
The relation of residual tgnetic intensity and its temperature coefficlent to drawing .
IMENTAL ARCHES ON DRAWN drawing cold both tend to diminish the magnitude of a negative , whilst drawing the wire several times after tempering , and without re-annealing , reverses the sign of the coefficient , which then becomes positive .
But extreme drawing bends the curve again to the zero lin , and , in the case of the twelfth wire , 50 diameters long , the coefficient actually becomes zero ; thus the curve for a dimension ratio of 50 cuts the zero line twice , namely , between the 8th and 9th stages and at the 12th stage .
The diminutio1l of the positive coefficient observed in the experiments on the first set of wires received from Messrs. W. SMITH and SONS is now explained , for it is evident that that series must have commenced beyond the final bend in the curve .
This bend also marks a distinct change in other properties of the wire , for steel wire when drawn too far loses the qualities of strength , elasticity , and electrical which moderate drawing confers to a high degree .
The tempering or patentin process in the 4th stage does not seem to be essential to the production , by subsequent drawing , of an incremental coefFicient ; if the curve belonging to the larger dimension ratio were continued , following the same path as its companion curve , it nearly , if not quite , reaches the zero line at the 3rd stage , where the wire is drawn annealing , but before temp r and if the experiments had been made on endless wires it is certain that the zero line would have been crossed at the 3rd stage .
Hence the production of a positive temperature coefficient is entirely due to cold drawing , if not carried to an extreme 6 .
In Table III .
the initial residual intensities have been calculated as the magnetic moment per unit volume , the volume being obtained from the mass and density .
From the figures given in ] table , or more clearly from the curve given in Diagram III .
, it is seen that the intensity mounts upwards as the drawing proceeds .
The maximum intensity reached is about 930 units ; altogether the residual intensity , after magnetisation , has been increased from 469 at the first drawing to 930 at the last , for magnets 100 diameters long , an increment of no less than 100 per cent. Thus the netic properties of steel can be modified to an extraordinary degree by the simple operation of cold drawing through successive holes .
7 .
Nevertheless , considerable skill and judgment are required in conducting the operation of drawing , if the peculiar qualities which piano wire possesses are to be developed in the highest .
One fact in connection with the process of manufacture , which may be mentioned here because of its physical interest , is that a wire after drawing through one hole draws more satisfactorily through the next if given a period of rest between the operations , and the longer the period of rest , extending even to many weeks , the more satisfactory is the subsequent drawing .
* Part II .
, SS2 and 4 .
TOMLINSON remarks that rest after strain diminishes internal friction , .
Soc. Phil. , ' vol. , Part II .
, p. 835 ; yol .
174 , p. 5 ; vid EWING , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 30 , p. 510 .
VOL. CCI.\mdash ; A. 8 .
With the object of compal.ing the magnetisation curves of drawn steel wire when cold and when hot , and also of determining the relation of the temperature coefficient to the intensity , another series of experiments was undertaken .
A wire , No. was selected of the same diameter and gauge as one upon which a number of iments leviously been made ; it was centim. in diameter , and its length was centims. , so that the dimension ratio was 456 and the demagnetising factor negligibly small .
The wire was fixed in a glass tube in an upright solenoid , celltinls .
from the magnetometer , and the usual arrangements were adopted for tracing the curve of magnetisation according to the one-pole method of EWING .
In all the experiments the vertical component of the earth 's force was alized .
After some preliminary heatings and coolings the wire was carried through a series of graded magnetic cycles at air temperature ; then , after nelisationo , a current of steam was passed and maintained through the tube , and the same series of graded cycles was repeated , the forces used at either temperature exactly alike .
It will be seen Diagram IV .
that the susceptibility of the hot wire when the force Diagram Piano Steel Wire .
Cyclic magnetisations of piano wire at and at Wires marked with the letter were kindly supplied by Mr. W. D. HOUGHTON , of Warrington .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 210 .
NTAL R ON DRAWN is about 11 or 12 units is nearly three times greater than the susceptibility of the wire cold , and throughout , up to the maximum force employed , the hot curve always lies above the cold curve .
On the application of a force , after maximum induction , the hot curve droops ster than the cold curve , and crosses it when is about 9 or 10 units , and for this force the intensity is the same whether the wire be hot or cold .
9 .
This suggests that if a suitable demagnetising force be applied the temperature coefficient would be zero , and previous have verified that a wire of this kin does yield a zero coefficient with an appropriate force .
But it is not possible to calculate with precision , from curves of induction , the requisite netismg factor , and consequently the dimension ratio to which such a wire must be cut , in order that the coefficient may be , because of complexities in magnetic behaviour arising in part from the irreversible effects of changes of temperature .
Nevertheless , an estimate can be made , for , in order that the point of intersection of the curves should lie on the ordinate of no external force , the curves must be sheared by an amount equivalent to about 10 units of force , and as the corresponding intensity is about 800 , this would mean that the force per unit of intensity , that is to say the demagnetising factor , must be , and in the case of a cylinder the dimension ratio for this factor is nearly 59 .
Experiment shows , however , that a piece of this kind of wire has an approximately zero coefficient when it is 8 centims. long , and thus the dimension ratio for this condition is 43 instead of 59 .
10 .
Again , the irreversible changes which occur on heating and cooling do not allow the temperature coefficient to be simply calculated from the difference of the hot and cold residual intensities which are left after removal of the magnetising force .
riments were made on the wire in two ways .
with the wire hot , the intensity fell from 1294 to 1189 during a series of heatings and coolings , and the coefficient .
Then , repeating the experiment , but beginning with the wire cold , the intensity fell from 1204 to 1126 , and the coefficient was value not very different from the former , but less than half the coefficient calculated from the difference of the hot and cold intensities left immediately after the withdrawal of the tising force .
Nevertheless , the relation of these hot and cold curves throws light on the fact that the temperature coefficient of a magnet of drawn steel is positive or according as the demagnetising factor is below or above a certain value , a result which has been fully established ( vide Table 11 .
In another series of experiments the temperature coefficient was determined at different stages of the curve , the wire being kept during heating and cooling under constant force .
The wire , the same one as before , was , in the first place , demagnetised carefully , and then a field of units was applied and maintained ; the intensity at was , but on passing steam through the tube the intensity ' .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 210 .
immediately rose to 400 , more than three times the former amount , and the subsequent alternations of temperature slowly augmented the intensity until a final value was at 477 ; the coefficient then was .
Raised another step by a force of units , the intensity became 724 , and , after ting and cooling a few times , it rose to 993 ; the coefficient now was .
And lastly , with a force of , the intensity was 1311 initially , and after heating and cooling 1316 , the coefficient bein$ .
The enormous growth of magnetism under changes of temperature in the earlier stages of magnetisation , and the insignificant increment in the final state , concurrently with the large coefficient when the susceptibility is large and its diminution as the susceptibility becomes less , are the features here principally to Inotice .
Applying next a small negative force units , the intensity dropped finally to 745 , and the coefficient was then ; and it might be anticipated from the position of the point of intersection of the hot and cold curves already examined , that a slightly larger demagnetising force ought to annul the positive coefficient , and that a still larger netising force ought to yield a negative coefficient .
A force of units was next applied and maintained , which , while less than the coercive force for the material hot or cold , was greater than the force at the point where the curves cross .
With this force we get the following result:\mdash ; Here it is evident that the force applied has been too large to allow a cyclic state to be established before reversal of the magnetism sets in , yet , in accol.dance with anticipation , up to the poin where the original magnetism is entirely removed the hot value of the intensity intermediate between any two cold values is always less NTAL RRCHFS ON STEFL .
than the mean of the cold yalues , a result which corresponds to a negative coefficient ; later on , after the reversal , the hot is larger than the mean of the adjacent cold values , a result which corresponds to positive coefficient , and this positive coefficient will , no doubt , continue up to lnaximum induction .
Both before and after reversal heating appears to produce much larger effects than cooling .
Under alternate applications of heat and cold , the coercive force is greatly lessened , and now lies at less than , instead of its former value hot and cold .
12 .
In the next place the effects of alternate changes of temperature on esidnal netism were studied .
The same wire was again employed , and , starting from the demagnetised state , small force was applied , and the residual magnetism subjected to heating and cooling .
Then stronger forces were successively applied and , in the same , at each step the coefficient was determined ; after the lnaximum had been reached , part of the magnetism was removed , a step at a time , and the temperature cient was examined at each stage .
Table IV .
is an abstract of the results so obtained .
TABLE .\mdash ; Effects of Heating and Cooling on Residual netism for ressive Magnetisation .
Piano Wire .
nega.tive force ) From this table the influence of the intensity on the gnitude and sign of the coefficients and can be traced .
In the first place , the coefficient rises to all early maximum and then falls to minimum at the highest intensity ; on the return the coefFicient again attains a maximum , which occurs at a higher intensity than before , and after this it continually grows less , and ultimately changes sign and becomes negative .
The rise and fall suggest some connexion with susceptibility , for which there is evidence in another group of experiments described later on .
In the second plsce , when the lnagnetic intensity is rising , the final intensity , after a series of eatings and coolings , is always less than initially , and is therefore negative , but on gradually removing successive fractions of the magnetism , then , at each stage , heatings and coolings produce a gain of magnetism , and the loss or gain is always much greater the smaller the intensity ; indeed , the gain becomes very la)rge at low intensities on the downward path , and at last , when the reyersed magnetic field has been increased so far as to leave a small reversed residual magnetic intensity , then and coolings clear this out and restore a small netisation of the original kind .
These results could be obtained repeatedly ; thus , in the following example , which is a typical one , after magnetising to saturation a reversed force left a residual of , which was augmented by heating and cooling to with a positive coefficient of , a further application of reversed force left a residual of in the opposite direction , and then as follows:\mdash ; Here there is a change in the direction of the magnetisation due to heating and cooling and a coefficient which is now negative .
But the negative coefficient is found to become less negative when the intensity thus restored is greater , as the following table shows:\mdash ; and no doubt a zero coefficient would be reached for astill higher intensity than EXPERIMENTAL ESEABCHES ON DRAWN STEEL .
If , howeyer , the magnetic force which has been applied is strong enough to leave a residual intensity which , after heatings and coolings , still remains .
the reverse direction to the original , the positive coefficient is again established .
13 .
In the experiments recorded above the intensity was raised a step at a time , after each of heatings and coolings , and a suspicion might be entertained that the magnetic state at any stage had been seriously disturbed by the heatings and coolings at a preceding stage .
The next series of experiments was undertaken to test this question , and accordingly , after any series of heatings and coolings , the wire was completely demagnetised by reversals before the magnetisation was carried a grade higher .
Beginnin at a low intensity , the magnetisation was thus carried to its highest value by easy steps .
In returning , the wire was magnetised strongly and then a small reversed force applied , enough to remove some of the residual magnetism ; after heating and cooling , the wire was demagnetised , carried again to its highest tensity , and a larger fraction of the residual magnetism removed , heating and cooling repeated , and so on .
In this way the following table was constructed ( Table V TABLE V.\mdash ; Effects of Heating and Cooling on Residual Magnetism with Demagnetisation between each Step .
tion of Intensity to Temperature Coefficient .
Piano Wire .
Indu .
' Residual intensity .
' Temperature coefficient , The same general features as before again exhibit themselves , namely , a rise and of the temperature coefficient as the intensity proceeds either to a maximum proceeds to a minimum , the largest value of occurring earlier for increasing than for decreasing intensities ; a loss , negative , so long as the applied force has been positive and a gain when the force has been negative , the magnitude of the gain or loss being greater the less the intensity ; a reversal of the direction of the netisation at low intensity by the operation of changes of temperature ; and also a in the of .
But the magnitude of the temperature coefficient of the reversible change is decidedly larger in this table than in the former one .
Hence , for the of a magnet of constant intensity constructed of drawn steel wire , it would appear to be advantageous to )'netise step by step , heating and cooling at each step without intermediate demagnetisations up to maximum intensity , and then to remove a small fraction of the magnetism by a reversed force ; is then at its least ' On the other hand , this gives a larger value for than if no reyersed force had been applied .
14 .
order to determine how far these results are due to drawing , it is necessary to have a comparison with similar experiments performed on an iron wire , and this was subsequently done .
The iron wire was that which is supplied in commerce as such , but it borders on very mild steel ; it was carefully annealed , and then submitted to a cycle of netisation , at first cold and afterwards hot .
The curves of magnetisation intersect in this material when the intensity , for rising forces , is about 800 units ; at higher intensities the susceptibility is less hot than cold , and the hot residual lies below the cold residual , accordingly subsequent heating is found to dilninish nd cooling to increase the residual magnetism .
The coerciye force is about units cold and a little less when In the next place the wire , after demagnetisation by reversal , was submitted to a very small force and the force withdrawn , then a series of heatings and coolings was applied , the permanent loss and coefficient were calculated in the usual way .
, after delnagnetisation , a stronger force was applied and withdrawn and a series of heatings and coolings executed .
Repeatin these operations a step higher each time and demagnetising between each step , we get the result exhibited in Table VI .
, ' Journal Inst. Electr .
Engineers , ' vol. 18 , p. 688 .
'Wied Ann vol. 11 , 1880 ; , ' Phil. Trans vol. 176 , Part II .
, p. 637 .
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON DRAWN STEEL .
TABLE VI .
ffects of Heating and Cooling on Residual netism with Demagnetisation between each Step .
Relation of Intensity to Temperature Coefficient .
Annealed Iron Wire .
Here the temperature coefficient is negative throughout for rising forces ; as the intensity progresses it diminishes to a minimum value when I is about 518 and then , increasing again , becomes nearly constant .
For reversed forces the coefficient diminishes to another low value at about 700 units ( a higher intensity than before ) , and then again increases , but if the reversed force is just sufficient to leaYe a small inverse magnetisation , the coefficient changes sign and becomes .
It then that in iron similar features present themselves in the relation of to I as in drawn steel , but in iron the coefficient is in general negative , and in drawn steel positive , and in each the sign of the coefficient can be reversed when a small inverse magnetisation succeeds a strong direct magnetisation .
The permanent change , , is larger for low intensities than for high ones , and fluctuates in sympathy with ; for reversed forces it changes sign , that is to say , there is a gain of magnetism due to cyclic temperature changes as there was with drawn sheet .
Throughout it will be noticed that in soft iron , as well as , is much smaller than in steel .
The table shows that a very long soft iron wire may have a temperature coefficient of less than per degree centigrade ; also , that if a small reversed force be applied after magnetisation to saturation , no loss of residual magnetism takes place due to heating and cooling , but the intensity tends to increase .
15 .
The experiments which have been narrated , show that the and the magnitude of the temperature coefficient may be inferred from the disposition of the hot and cold curves of magnetisation .
This is still further confirmed by reference to Diagram V. , where the temperature coefficient of drawn steel , for both ascending Diagram Residual , Residual finally .
The relation of temperature coefficients and and permanent change of magnetism to residual intensity .
and descending values of magnetisation , is plotted against the residual intensities left finally after heating and cooling .
The broken curve traced underneath is the change of residual magnetism per unit per degree of temperature calculated from curves of residual magnetism when the wire was at and when it was at This is marked ( as it corresponds to the temperature coefficient of susceptibility for residual magnetism ) , and is traced for both ascending and descending intensities .
The distinctive features of one curve are reproduced in the other , although , as might be expected , owing to irreversible changes , the curves are not an accurate fit .
Thus , the zero coefficient experimentally found is displaced largely to the left of the zero position in the calculated curve .
If the iron curves , traced in the same way , are examined , the distinctive features of the one will be found also reproduced in the other , but with a large displacement EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON DRAWN STEEL .
of one to the other .
Thus there is a mall value of the negative coefficient in the calculated curve between intensities of 800 and 900 , and a maximum about an intensity of 700 ; the counterpart to these occur in the experimental curve between intensities of 400 and 500 , and at less than 100 respectively .
Still more interesting is the large displacement of the zero coefficient .
In the curve the zero state occurs about an intensity of 560 , and in the curve probably at an intensity of a few units .
Although I have attempted to obtain experimentally the zero temperature coefficient in iron , I have not succeeded unmistakably , partly because of the general difficulty of working at very low intensities , and partly because of the special difficulty of clearing out all traces of pre-existing magnetisation , which is a very necessary precaution , and of operating in a field of no force .
But I have ascertained that at a very feeble mtensity the negative coefficient becomes decidedly less negative , and that the curve tends towards zero at some extremely low magnetisation .
EWING , however , has obtained at a very early stage in the magnetisation of iron a positive , and at a higher but still a very low intensity a zero coefficien Although his experiment was not performed on residual magnetism alone , as the vertical component of the earth 's force was always in operation in such a way as to tend to increase the netisation , and at low intensities its would be considerable , yet there is little doubt that at some very low residual intensity iron yields a zero coefficient .
There is thus a satisfactory correspondence between the results calculated from the relation of the curves of residual intensity when hot and when cold and the results experimentally found for the temperature coefficient of residual magnetism .
Every magnet therefore may have a positive , a negative , or a zero coefficient , unless the hot and cold curves happen to be coincident throughout .
The changes which take place in the magnitude of the permanent loss and gain of magnetism due to a series of heatings and coolings , are shown graphically for both drawn steel and iron on the lower part of Diagram 16 .
The experiments I have selected for description throw light , I think , on many of the numerous results which have been published on the effects of cyclic changes of temperature on magnetism , and also afford some guiding rules for the construction of magnets of high permanence and with small temperature coefficients .
'Roy .
Soc. Phil. Trans vol. 176 , p. 633 .
References to papers on the " " Influence of Changes of Temperature on Magnetism\ldquo ; and allied subjects :\mdash ; FARADAY , Phil. hIag vol. , p. 177 , 1836 ; KATER , 'Roy .
Soc. Phil. Trans 1821 ; BARLOW and BONNYCASTLE , 'Roy .
Soc. Phil. Trans 1822 ; RIESS and MOSER , 'Pogg .
Ann vol. 17 , p. 425 , 1829 ; , Kastner 's Archiv , ' vol. 6 ; LAMONT'S lIagnetismus ' ; SCORESBY , Edin .
Phil. Trans vol. p. 254 ; WIEDEMANN , Pogg .
Ann vol. 103 , p. 563 , 1858 ITIUS , 'Pogg .
Ann 1863 , Phil. Mag 1864 ; GORE , 'Phil .
Mag 1869 and 1870 ; GORDON and NEWALL , Phil. Mag vol. 42 , p. 335 , 1871 ; WHIPPLE , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc ls77 ; ROWLAND , Phil. Mag vol. , p. 321 , ' vol. 82 , p. 276 , 1876 ; GAUGAIN , 'C.R .
, ' vol. 80 , , vol. 82 , , vol. 83 , , vol. 85 , pp. 219 , When the magnet is short relatively to its thickness , the self-demagnetising force will have so preponderating an influence , that it will be advisable , in order to reduce its effect to a minimum , to choose a material of small susceptibility ; a hard steel is thus preferred .
If , however , the magnet is long and attention must be paid chiefly to the quality and treatment of the material , so that it may develop that condition in which the hot and cold curves of its magnetisation are separated as little as possible .
And further , it has been shown that drawing influences the disposition of the hot and cold curves in such a way that it affords an effective method of regulating the magnitude and sign of the temperature coefficient .
TIME TESTS On the of Magnets with Negfigible Coefficicnts .
17 .
At the conclusion of a preyious reciting experiments upon the construction of magnets with zero temperature coefficients , a brief note was added on the question of the constancy of the zero state with lapse of time .
This is obviously important in the of such magnets to the work of an observatory , and it has therefore received some attention .
In May , 1897 , a magnet was constructed of a piece of wire , centim in diameter , and from a previous series of experiments upon this kind of wire it was calculated that it should be cut to a length of 8 centims. , having a dimension ratio of , in order to yield a zero coefficient .
It was then magnetised and heated and cooled about twenty times so as to reduce the magnetism to a settled state .
The intensity before heating and cooling was c.g.s. units , calculating this here , as , as the magnetic moment per unit volume , after heating and cooling , the intensity was per cent. less ; the coefficient , , was very small and positive , its value being per degree centigrade .
This magnet was tested at intervals for the next three years , and its history is given in Table VII .
, and also in the diagram constructed from this table ( Diagram VI .
) .
After the iirst test it 615 , 1014 , and vol. 86 , p. 536 ; and GAUGAIN , 'O.R .
, ' 1876 , 'Phil .
Mag 1876 ; POLONI , yied .
Beibl 1878 ; WASSMUTH , 'Wien .
Ber 1880-02 ; BAUR , 'Wied .
Ann vol. 11 , 1880 ; , ' Phil. ' vol. 23 , pp. 293 , 420 , .
CHEESMAN , ' Wied .
Ann vol. , p. 204 , vol. 16 , p. 712 ; BARUS STROUHAL , lVied .
Ann vol. , p. 662 , 1883 ; 'Bulletin U.S. Geol .
Survey , ' No. 14 , 1885 ; BARUS , ' Phil. hIag Nov. , 1888 ; , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 6 , p. 321 , 1878 ; BOSANQUET , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 19 , p. 57 , 1885 ; CANCANI , ' Atbi della R. Acc .
dei Lincei ' ( 4 ) , vol. 3 , p. 501 , 1887 ; MORRIS , D. K. , ' Phil. AIag vol. 44 , p. 213 , 1897 ; , A. , 'Am .
Journwl of Sci April , 1898 ; PIERCE , B. O. , 'Am .
Journal of Sci May , 1898 ; EWING , ' Roy .
Soc. Phil. Trans vol. 176 , 1885 ; also CANTON and sTRoIff , , HANSTErN , CHRISTIE , LLOYD , CHREE , \amp ; c. 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 210 .
IENTAL ESEARCHES ON TABLE VII.\mdash ; Influence of Time on the Temperature Coefficient and Residual Magnetic Intensity of Drawn Steel .
Piano Wire , 8 centims. was boiled for three and a half hours in two stages , and a week later the coefficient was exactly the same as before .
It was now laid aside for a month , when the coefficient was found to have changed from , and this again slowly altered for twelve lnonths , and became finally nearly steady at which is less than a half of 1 per cent. for C. The intensity had also changed , at first quickly , but latterly very slowly .
Here it is interesting to notice that at any stage heating and cooling through a range of or diminishes the intensity in the later tests to a very trifling extent , but the undisturbed action of time produces a very slow but steady diminution to the final limit ; and this recalls the circumstance mentioned previously , how the action of time alone alters the molecular structure of steel so that its drawing qualities are greatly improved ( S 7 ) .
The magnet was now remagnetised ( July 11th , 1898 ) , which immediately raised the intensity from to 4748 , a value practically identical with its initial intensity ; after a series of heatings and ccolings , with boiling at intervals , the magnet was laid aside , its coefficient then ( October 14th ) bein , and the intensity At the same time another piece of wire was cut so as to be 8 centims. long , magnetised and tested .
Its intensity initially was and its coefficient After a number of heatings and coolings , remagnetisation and for several hours , it was tested again , and laid aside for comparison with the former .
Its coefficient was then , and the intensity ( Table Both these magnets were tested in June and November , 1899 , and again in April , 1900 .
It appears that in the summer of 1899 the coefficients were larger than seven months previously , and reached a maximum and , and that since then they have become a little less , and now stand at and The intensity after heating and cooling has only fluctuated to the extent of 3 per cent. Both these magnets are almost exactly alike in all the details of their behaviour , and it will be noticed that the second magnet when magnetised and immediately remagnetised , without any long interval between the magnetisations as with number one , arrives at once at the same condition as the first .
18 .
Magnets made from this wire with a larger dimension ratio would have higher intensities and yield still more constant results , but then the coefficients would depart considerably from zero , the too small demagnetising factor .
If , however , longer piece of the wire be taken , a part of its abnormal properties can be removed by heating to a suitable temperature and quenching , as already shown , thus a zero coefficient can be obtained with a smaller demagnetising factor .
Two lengths of 12 centims. each were cut from the same kind and thickness of wire before , and were heated until just red-hot and quenched in water ; they were then magnetised and repeatedly heated and cooled .
The coefficient was negative and in magnitude , and the intensity about 670 for both , the original intensity 'Roy .
Soc , Proc vol. 62 , ) l5 .
EXPERIMENTAL ON DRAWN immediately after tisation and before heating and cooling being about 700 .
They were then remagnetised , boiled for some hours , heated and cooled many times , and the coefficient determined- ; after this they were laid aside for several lths .
This was in November , 1898 .
When re-examined in June and November of 1899 , and again in March , 1900 , very little taken place in either the coefficients or the intensities , which were about and 700 respectively .
Both magnets were almost exactly the same in their behaviour in every respect , as will be seen from Table VIII .
, which gives their history .
VIII.\mdash ; Influence of Time on the Temperature Coefficient and Residual Magnetic Intensity of Drawn Steel when Tempered .
Piano Wire , 12 centims. long , heated to redness and quenched .
For steady values of and I this latter method of constructing magnets is to be preferred , and with further experimental experience even the small coefficient here exhibited yet be reduced ; the high intensity , too , which is yielded by this method of producing approximately zero coefficients is another advantage .
The magnetic moment of these magnets was about 227 each for a weight of grammes .
It will be noticed that , in the magnets which been constructed to have nearly zero coefficients by cutting them to a suitable dimension ratio , there is a tendency for the positivs coefficient to less and become negative as the intensity declines , and vice .
This is in accord with the results already found for the relation of the hot and cold curves , where larger and smaller values of the intensities than those corresponding to the intersection of the curves give positive and negative coefficients respectively .
Indeed , in any magnet we should expect a change of intensity to produce a change of the coefficient if the latter is dependent on the disposition of the hot and cold curves of magnetisation , and hence the decay of magnetism with the lapse of time , or the increment of magnetism which takes place on remagnetisation , will tend to alter the magnitude of the temperature coefficient .
In the latter case such effects have been noticed .
, ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 65 , p. 375 .
EXPERIMENTAL ESEARCHES ON DRAWN STEEL , Diagram Change of magnetic intensity and temperature coefficient with lapse of time in drawn and tempered piano steel .
Nos. and refer to the first and second samples of piano wire in the commercial state , 8 centims. long .
Nos. and refer to the first second of tempered piano wire , 12 centims. long .
VOL. CCI.\mdash ; A PART II .
, AND NSITy , AND THE ATLTRE COEFFICIENTS 0F RESISTIVITY AND ELASTICITY .
Page 1 .
Introductory . . . . . . . . . .
26 2 .
The relation of resistivity to drawing . . . . .
26 3 .
The ation of the temperature coefficient of resistivity to drawing . . . . .
28 4 .
The relation of YOUNG'S modulus ( y ) to drawing . . . . .
29 5 .
The tion of the ture coefficient of YOUNG'S modulus to wing . . .
31 .
The relation of density to drawing and the intluence of density on modulus and on magnetic intensity . . . .
, 33 1 .
The magnetic behaviour of repeatedly drawn steel wire led to the suggestion that some of the other physical operties of such wire would also exhibit interesting changes .
Besides , it was worth while to attempt to trace broadly some connection between one property and another , sin whilst no chemical change presumably takes place by drawing , yet the physical properties might be considerably modified .
The selfsame wires which were employed in determining the change of magnetic properties , and which have been numbered ( 1 ) to ( 12 ) , have been used in the experiments about to be described on resistivity , elasticity , and density , in order to remove any doubt which might be entertained that the material of any one of these specimens was not identically the same during the different tests for its several properties .
This unquestionably added to the experimental difficulties , for a length or thickness suitable under one set of conditions was not so suitable under other conditions .
Thus , in the determination of YOUNG'S lmodulus , the method of flexure had to be employed which , under other circumstances , would not have been adopted .
As the methods used here for the determination of resistivity , elasticity , and density are those commonly employed , it will be unnecessary to describe at length the course of the experiments , and the present part will be confined to a brief recital of results .
Resistivity .
2 .
The resistivity of the wires was observed by comparing the difference of potential at the ends of a known resistance with the difference of potential between two points along the wire when the same current was flowing through the wire and the known resistance .
wire has been tested by two , and in some cases by three , independent experiments , in which as much yariation was introduced as the IMENTAL FffiSEARCHES ON STEEL .
apparatus would allow , and the results in the table subjoined are the mean values of the experiments , which , however , differed very little among themselves .
The principal source of error lay in the measurement of the diameters of the wires , for in one or two cases , he wires appeared to be conical in shape , and in two cases were slightly elliptical in cross-section .
By measuring the diameter at many places along the length of the wires , and confirming the results by calculation of the diameter from determinations of the density , the average sectional has been arrived at .
The numerical results are given in the third column of Table and in Diagram VTI .
; Diagram Relation of and its temperature coefficient to drawing in steel wires .
they are plotted as a curve , the sectional areas of the wires , which may be taken as a scale of traction , being treated as abscissae .
There is a small reduction of diameter on annealing and tempering which is due not to traction , but presumably to the production of a little oxidation , which would be rubbed off afterwards when the wire was cleaned .
The effects of annealing or tempering upon the resistivity come out in the curve * The diameters of the wires are given in Tables II .
and III .
, and are not repeated in Table IX .
as two ) rominent peaks ; either of these processes increases the resistivity by about 2 per cent. upon the initial state .
Hard drawing after annealing between stages ( 2 ) gs the wire down to nearly the original condition , and again , after tempering , cold drawing through two or three holes decidedly reduces resistivity , but an unmistakable increase sets in at the 11th and 12th stages .
From the last point the curve has been extended by a broken line to include two more points belonging to still finer wires , Nos. and , which are not , howeyer , of identically the same material as the others .
Neyertheless , the broken line emphasizes the fact that the effect of extreme drawing is prejudicial to conductivity .
These contrary effects of drawing , it will be remembered , were also in evidence in the curve of magnetic temperature coefficient , and in both curves the change occurs near to the 8th and 9th stages .
A length of the steel wire upon which the experimentsjust described carried out was subsequently made glass hard , and the resistivity in that state was , or about 70 per cent. higher than the wire in its state of least resistance .
It is wortl ] notice that minirnum resistivity occurs in the .
and hot rolled conditions , hence the order of resistivity in an ascending scale is : hard drawn or hot rolled ; annealed or tempered ; glass hard .
Coefficient of Resistivity .
3 .
A simple modification of the apparatus described in the lant section allowed the temperature coefficient of resistivity to be obtained .
The same wires were used as before .
Each was fixed in a trough surrounded by a water-bath , could be raised in temperature by the application of gas jets from about to C. Readings were made at intervals during the process of heating and cooling , and the usual precautions were taken for the elimination of the effects of thermo-currents .
independent sets of observations were taken for nearly all the specimens , and the mean results , are given in the fourth column of Table IX .
, have been tted on the same diagram as the curve of resistivity , so that the two curves may be veniently compared .
It will be noticed that the smallest value of the temperature coefficient , namely , , occurs when the steel is annealed , and the highest value , , when hard drawn , and these least and greatest values coincide respectively with the largest and values of the .
This confirms and extends a law which BARUS has shown to be true for the iron carburets , according to which the temperature ient of approximately inversely as the resistivity ; and in the *The relation given by BARUS is , where is the resistivity , the temperature coefficient , and are constants .
'Bulletin U.S. Geol .
Survey , ' No. 14 , 1885 .
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON DRAWN STEEL .
curves here plotted a similar relation between temperature coefficient and resistivity in general holds good , the two curves moving oppositely to each other .
The change , however , in the magnitude of the temperature coefficient of the repeatedly drawn steel is small compared to the change in resistivity .
The temperature coefficient of this steel made glass hard is only , about half the average value in the drawn state ; this again is an example of BARUS ' law , for the resistivity when glass hard is , as stated , 70 per cent. greater than when hard drawn .
The ascending order of the temperature coefficient is thus : glass hard ; annealed ; hard drawn ; the inverse of resistivity .
Modulus .
4 .
The elastic properties of steel are known to undergo a considerable change with drawing , and it seemed desirable to discover if longitudinal elasticity was correlated in any way with the electric and magnetic properties of these steel wires , and how it was modified by annealing , tempering , and traction .
The determination of YOUNG'S modulus was effected by measuring the amount of flexure of the wires when loaded at the middle , and with the ends on rigid supports .
The depression produced by loading was observed through a telescope supplied with a micrometer eye-piece , which allowed an exceedingly small interval to be measured with accuracy .
After a reading had been taken of the fiducial mark , with no load hanging from the rod except the pan itself , weights were applied one by one , great care being exercised so that there should be a minimum of vibration ; the weights were then removed , one at a time , the depression corresponding to these weights at each stage being observed through the telescope .
Two , and in some cases three , independent sets of experiments of this kind were performed on each wire , and nearly always with different distances between the supports , and with different increments and amounts of load , and the mean of the several experiments was taken as the final result .
In the formula the calculation of the modulus the fourth power the radius appears as one of the factors , and hence an accurate value of the radius is required if errors are to be avoided .
As already mentioned , considerable number of careful measurements of the diameters of the wires were made , and these were confirmed from determinations of the density .
The values there used have been adopted here .
The fifth column of Table IX .
gives YOUNG'S moduhJs for the twelve specimens 01 steel upon which the magnetic and electric experiments already described had been carried out .
Diagram VIII .
exhibits this column of figures as a curve with sectional *Vide S2 .
As the deviation of any single determination of the dens from its mean never exceeded 4 per cent. in one specimen , the maximum error on this account in the fourth power of the radius will not be more than double of this .
1)iagram VIII .
Relation of modulus ( y ) and its temperature coefficient to drawing in piano steel wires .
areas as abscissae and YOUNG'S modulus as ordinates ; on the same diagram the curve of the coefficient of the modulus is plotted , but this will be referred to afterwards .
A feature of this curve is that annealing , hard drawing , and tempering all produce an upward effect , which continued until the last stages are reached , and then a decided drop occurs ; thus , again , the initial effects of drawin are reversed by extreme traction .
The increase of the modulus is very conspicuous when the wire has been tempered , the rise at this stage being nearly one half of the whole change , which , from least to greatest , is about 21 per cent. On the other hand , drawing between the 2nd and 3rd stages has only a small effect on the modulus , and the influence of successive cold drawing after temperin for at least two stages is comparatively unimportant ; then , after a sharp rise at the 8th and 10th stages , with some irregularity at the 9th , there is the rapid fall to the 11th and 12th points .
The irregularity in the final stages is here apparent , as in some of the other curves , and the suspicion that there has probably been some depal.ture from the eyen course of drawing after the 8th stage , as mentioned when the process of manufacture was described .
* It seems not unlikely that it requires very skilful manipulation of the material in order to obtain maximum elasticity , and about stages ( 8 ) to ( 10 ) the wire possibly develops a critical condition .
Part EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCHES ON DRAWN STEEL .
Temperature Coefficient YOUNG'S Modulus .
5 .
In determining the temperature coefficient of YOUNG'S modulus the same apparatus as before was used , with the addition of a brass tube in which slots were cut , so that the upper ends of the supports could project into the interior of it .
This tube enclosed the steel wire , and another slot of smallest allowable size was cut at the centre of the tube to permit the passage of the suspension for the pan and weights .
The slots near the ends were made steam-tight , but , necessarily , this could not be done for the central one , as the suspension wire which passed through had to hang freely .
One end of the tube was in connection with a boiler , and this produced a supply of steam which could pass freely along the tube and escape at the other end .
No special arrangement , however , was made for the cooling of the tube , the steam was simply shut off and the tube and its contents allowed to grow cold gradually .
A thermometer projected into the tube , with the bulb nearly at the centre , and the temperature of the steel was taken to be the reading of the thermometer .
The apparatus thus set up was at first intended for rapid tests , to ascertain whether the sign of the coefficient changed at any stage , and less attention was paid to its magnitude , but later on it became possible to obtain numerical results which are worth .
In some earlier experiments the method was tried of observing the position of the fiducial mark at air temperature , then at steam temperature , and again at air temperature , from which data the coefficient could easily have been deduced .
But it was found much better to follow the plan of loading and unloading as already described for determining the modulus , ying out the observations firstly at air temperature , secondly at steam temperature , again at air temperature , and so on alternately , and calculating the coefficient , , from the observed depressions , and , thus : By adopting this method , corrections for expansion of supports , etc. , were eliminated .
The formula assumes that the change in YOUNG'S modulus is linear and that there are no hysteresis-like effects , but these assumptions are , no doubt , not quite justifiable , although probably not far from the truth .
With rise of temperature the modulus was found to decrease , but on cooling it it was very seldom that it returned exactly to its original value , although , after a repetition of the experiments , the modulus was found to change from one to another of two nearly constant values ; thus there is a permanent change before a cyclic state i@ established .
Here is an example ; \mdash ; Drawn Steel Wire No. 7 .
Each of these numbers has been arrived at after a series of loadings and unloadings as described above .
Since the modulus is inversely proportional to the depression , the diminution of the latter from to 144 means a " " permanent\ldquo ; increase of per cent. in elasticity.$ The amount of this increase of the modulus varies from stage to stage and roughly follows the variation of the temperature coefficient , large and small values of each being associated .
Thus there is a large " " permanent\ldquo ; increase when the cyclic change is large .
The average amount of the " " permanent\ldquo ; increase of the modulus in these wires is about per cent. for change of temperature .
The mean results of the several determinations of the temperature coefficient of YOUNG'S modulus on each wire are given in the sixth column of Table IX .
The coefficient is throughout negative , implying that , in the cyclic state , YOUNG'S modulus decreases with rise of temperature ; the magnitude varies onsiderably , namely , from when annealed , at the 2nd stage , to a maximum of at the 3rd stage , when hard drawn .
There is a small value of the coefficient at the 4th stage on tempering , and , after that , the figures for the cold drawn specimens present apparently much irregularity , but if this column of figures be plotted , as in Diagram VIII .
, we get a curve which repeats in an inverse sense all the features of the modulus curve , so that a relation clearly exists between the modulus and its temperature coefficient .
Although the figures in the table do not exhibit a simple inverse proportion between the magnitude of the coefficient and YOUNG'S modulus , yet the general statement may be made that larger and smaller values of the modulus are progressively associated respectively with smaller and larger values of its temperature coefficient .
This law recalls the similar law connecting the resistivity of the iron carburets and their temperature coefficients , with this difference , that the coefficient for the modulus is negative , whereas the coefficient for resistivity is positive .
The average value of the coefficient for YOUNG'S This " " permanent\ldquo ; effect does not persist indefinitely , } ) probably disappears in a few days or hours .
These curious effects of temperature on YOUNG'S modulus are in accordance with results published by Mr. SHAKSPEAR in a paper which appeared just after these experiments were carried out .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 47 , p. 539 also , 'Roy .
Soc. Phil. vol. 174 , Part I. , p. 132 .
ENTAL ON modulus in these wires is whilst for resistivity it is approximately .
Density .
6 .
When a steel rod is drawn into wire the variation of density as the drawing proceeds may not progress uniformly , for it is not unlikely that the stress required to force the rod through the draw plate may so far separate the molecules longitudinally that the lateral compression does not compensate for the extension .
In this case the density will diminish , and ; in short , density will depend upon the ratio of extension to compression .
It is , therefore , not only interesting , but of some importance to trace the change of density at each stage of manufacture and to compare this with the change of the properties already examined .
The method adopted was to weigh a suitable length of the wire in air and afterwards in distilled water , at the same time noting the data necessary for corrections on account of density of the water , the buoyancy of the air , the weight of the suspending fibre , etc. , the most important correction being the one which makes allowance for the temperature of the water differing from that of its greatest density , approximately For the sake of confirmation an entirely independent duplicate set observations was carried out , and the agreement between the two sets was very satisfactory , especially in the earlier specimens , which , being of greater size and mass , could be weighed with relatively higher accuracy .
The results are given in the last column of Table IX .
It will be seen that they end at the eleventh wire , as the twelfth was accidentally mislaid ; this is particularly unfortunate , as it would have been useful to know whether No. 12 exhibited a density greater or less than the abnormally high density of No. 11 .
The feature which first claims notice is the diminution of density , although only slight , which takes place when the rod is first subjected to traction , namely , between the 2nd and 3rd , and between the 4th and 5th stages .
This appears to be an illustration of the remarks at the beginning of this section .
Afterwards , as the drawing progresses , there is a steady increase of density , with a large increment between the 10th and 11th stages .
The entire variation of density is about per cent. , the least and greatest values lying respectively at the beginning and end of the list .
As a general rule , it has been observed that density and YOUNG'S modulus in steel vary directly together , and this leads to a comparison of the present results with the curve of the modulus .
The similarity is not immediately obvious , but , in both , annealing and tempering produce an upward movement , whilst the first drawing after either of these operations produces very little change , subsequent drawings , however , *According to STYFFE the average value for ordinary steel is .
" " Strength of Iron and Stoel by KNUT STYFFE , p. 122 .
Vide also TOMLINSON , 'Roy .
Soc. Phil. Trans vol. 179 , ) .
vol. 171 , pp. ] VOL. A. MR. J. GINALD A : the curves .
But the final ) in the modulus does not appear to have a ) here , unless the missing No. 12 diminishes in density .
It is to be noticed that the percentage variation of YOUNG'S modulus from one end of the curve to the other is about ten times the percentage variation of the density , and also the average temperature coefficient of the modulus is about ten times the temperature coefficient of density , or cubical expansion , so that it is possible that much of the diminution of elasticity with rise of temperature may be due to thermal expansion diminishing the density .
A more obvious correspondence exists between the curve of residual magnetic intensity ( dimension ratio ) and the curve of density , both rising continually and rapidly from the 5th point .
The relationship is more easily traced when intensity is plotted against density , as in Diagram IX .
Between the 5th and 9th The relation of residual magnetic intensity and YOUNG'S modulus to density in drawn steel .
stages inclusive the ratio of the increment of magnetic moment per unit volume to the increment of mass per unit volume is nearly constantly 4100 , or each molecule added per unit volume contributes directly or indirectly to the whole a magnetic moment 4100 times its mass .
This is , however , a doubtful clue to even an inferior limit to the magnetic moment of a molecule , since it cannot be assumed that there is RIMENTAL RSEARCHES ON .35 an inyariable structure maintained throughout the progress of the drawing .
Indeed , it is not difficult to see from the fracture of the wires hat as the drawing proceeds a fibrous structure is developed for several stages after tempering , and the formation of this fibrous structure may be of importance in augmenting the magnetic intensity .
For the sake of comparison , YOLTNG'S modnlus has been plotted on Diagram IX .
, points bein taken from a smooth curve of the modulus and traction , and the curve bears out the statement that an increase of density in general improyes elastic properties .
It also shows that elasticity and magnetic intensity are correlated .
To complete this part of the investigation of the properties of drawn steel , it was intended to add an account of the changes which might take place in the cubical expansion of these wires , and to trace the ction of these with other changes , but although some preliminary experiments have been made , the results are not yet sufficiently advanced to be presented .
This investigation has been carried out at the Owens College , Manchester , at intervals during the last three or four years , and I am greatly indebted to Professor SCHUSTER for allowing me to avail myself of the facilities for research which the Physical Laboratory there provides .

