" On a new case of the Interference of Light .
" By the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
The principal experiment exhibiting the newly-observed case of interference described by the author , is the following : into a hollow prism or trough containing oil of sassafras , anise , cassia , &amp;c. , a plate of glass is dipped so as to intercept the light passing through the upper or thicker half of the prism , and leave the lower half clear : the spectrum of a line of light or narrow slit , is then immediately seen to be covered with dark bands parallel to the slit or edge of the prism .
Some substances , as oil of turpentine , water , &amp;c. , give no bands with this arrangement , but will give them , if a complementary arrangement be adopted , viz. by placing a narrow slip of glass at the bottom of the prism , or so as to intercept the light passing through the thinner half .
The production of the bands in general , and the reason of the difference existing in the cases referred to , are fully accounted for on the theory of waves and interference : whence the following formula is deduced , giving the number of bands ( n ) , when jp and a , , the indices for any ray for the plate and for the medium , are known , of which X is the wave length ; and taking these quantities for any two rays ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the spectrum , r being the thickness of the plate , we have the number of bands between them expressed by The numbers thus calculated agree with observation for many media .
The distinction of the two cases alluded to depends on whether n result positive or negative ; that is , on the relative values of the indices ; also agreeing with observation .
If doubly refracting media are used as plates , two sets of bands are seen superimposed , which are easily shown to be due to the ordinary and extraordinary rays respectively .
But for some of these crystals the data are as yet insufficient to give more than a general accordance with theory .
The method might be applied practically for determining the indices of many substances to which the ordinary method is inapplicable from the impossibility of forming them into prisms : n will also exhibit palpably the most insensible degree of double refraction , and may thus become useful to the mineralogist .
There is a close analogy between these phenomena and those observed by Baron von Wrede , and by Sir D. Brewster and Mr. Fox Talbot , of which Mr. Airy has given a theory .
A similar theory is necessary for explaining some of the more minute details of the present phenomena ; and on this subject some extensive researches have been pursued by Mr. Stokes of Pembroke College , Cambridge , which will soon appear .

