2 Captain A. D. Fraser and Dr. H. L. Duke .
[ Dec. 19 , were collected there and brought to Mpumu , where they were fed on a healthy goat .
After 1020 flies had been put on the goat it became infected with Trypanosoma uniforme .
Some days afterwards Trypanosoma vivax , with which wild flies had previously been shown to be naturally infected , also appeared in the goat 's blood .
The conclusions are:\#151 ; ( 1 ) This trypanosome , which is of fairly frequent occurrence among Lake-shore antelope , is Trypanosoma wiiforme .
( 2 ) The available evidence points to palpalis as being the carrier of this species of trypanosome .
( 3 ) Glossina palpalis caught on the Lake-shore are naturally infected with Trypanosoma uniforme .
The Relation of Wild Animals to Trypanosomiasis .
By Captain A. D. Fraser , K.A.M.C. , and Dr. H. L. Duke .
( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. , being an abstract of a Report to the Sleeping Sickness Commission , received May 19 , 1911 .
Received December 19 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 29 , 1912 .
) Wild animals were examined with the view of ascertaining whether they were naturally infected with trypanosomiasis .
The majority of the animals were shot ; a few were captured .
Ten waterbuck , 20 bushbuck , and 2 situtunga were obtained from within two miles of the Lake-shore where the Glossina palpalis were known to be infected with Trypanosoma gambiense and vivax and were afterwards shown to be infected with T. uniforme .
With the exception of four of the bushbuck ordinary blood smears were made from each animal , and trypanosomes morphologically indistinguishable from uniforme were found in slides taken from one bushbuck and one situtunga .
Blood from each of the antelope was injected into healthy monkeys and goats .
From 3 to 5 c.c. was the usual quantity of blood injected into monkeys ; 5-10 c.c. into goats .
None of the monkeys developed trypanosomiasis .
In the blood of one of the goats T. uniforme appeared 10 days after the injection of blood of two bushbuck shot near the Lake .
Unfortunately no blood smears were made from these animals .
It is suggested that , if animals more susceptible than goats are to-T .
uniforme had been employed , a higher percentage of the antelope examined might have been shown to harbour this species of trypanosome .
1911 .
] The Relation of Wild Animals to Trypanosomiasis .
3 Two bushbuek and one situtunga were also examined by feeding clean laboratory-bred G. palpalis upon them and subsequently transferring the flies to normal monkeys .
The monkeys remained healthy and no flagellates were found in the flies which were dissected .
Twenty-two hippopotami , 8 crocodiles , 12 monitors , 60 Lake-shore birds , 2 bushpigs , 6 otters , etc. , were examined , both microscopically and by blood injection into susceptible animals , with negative results .
G. palpalis were seen to feed on bushbuck and monitors in nature .
The animals obtained from a distance greater than two miles from the Lake-shore included 5 bushbuck , 2 duiker , and 3 bushpigs .
ingens was present in slides made from 1 bushbuck .
Experiments were also carried out to ascertain whether bushpigs , etc. , could be infected with T. gambiense .
Blood from monkeys heavily infected with this trypanosome was injected into two young bushpigs .
Cages of G. palpalis known to be infected with T. gambiense were also fed upon the pigs .
No evidence was obtained that the pigs became infected .
Negative results were also obtained of attempts to infect a young crocodile , a monitor , a frog , and fowls .
An edible rat was infected by injection .
Conclusions .
1 .
T. uniforme was the only species of trypanosome obtained as the result of examination of wild animals including 32 Lake-shore antelope .
2 .
The available evidence points to bushpig , crocodile , monitor , frog and fowls being refractory to T. gambiense .
3 .
The edible rat , which is susceptible to T. gambiense , can , by virtue of its habits , be of little importance in considering the question of a reservoir .

