Struct tore and Affinities of Fossil Plants from Pocks .
117 IY .
" On the Result of Chilling Copper-Tin Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.R.S. V. " On the Theory of Consistence of Logical Class-frequencies , and its Geometrical Representation .
" By G. Udny Yule .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
IY .
The Seed-like Fructification of Lrpido-carpon , a Genus of Lycopodiaeeous Cones from the Carboniferous Formation .
" By I ) .
H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received February 19 , \#151 ; Read February 28 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) A short account of the new genus has been given in a note communicated to the Royal Society last August* the present paper contains a full , illustrated description of the fossils in question , together with a discussion of their morphology and affinities .
The strobilus of Lepidocarpon Lomaxi , the Coal-measure species , is , in its earlier condition , in all respects that of a Lepidostrobus , of the type of L. Oldhamius .
In each megasporangium , however , a single megaspore or embryo-sac alone came to perfection , filling almost the whole sporangial cavity , but accompanied by the remains of its abortive sister-cells .
An integument ultimately grew up from the sporophyll , completely enclosing the megasporangium , and leaving only a narrow slit-like opening , or micropyle , along the top .
As shown in specially favourable specimens , both of Lepidocarpon Lomaxi , and of L. the more ancient Burntisland form , the functional megaspore became filled by a large-celled prothallus , resembling that of the recent or Selaginella .
The whole body , consisting of the sporophyll , bearing the integumented megasporangium and its contents , became detached from the strobilus , and in this isolated condition is identical with the " seed " described by Williamson under the name of anomalum , which , however , proves to be totally distinct from the Cordaitean seed so named by Carruthers .
The seed-like organs of Lepidocarpon are regarded by the author as presenting close analogies with true seeds , but as differing too widely from the seeds of any known Spermophyta to afford any proof of affinity .
The case appears rather to be one of parallel or convergent development , and not to indicate any genetic connection between the Lycopods and the Gymnosperms , or other Phanerogams .
# " Note on the Occurrence of a Seed-like Fructification in certain Pahro/ oie Lycopods , " * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 306 .

