December 20 , 1849 .
DR. ROGET , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A. C. Ramsay , Esq. , was admitted into the Society .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered by Professor Graham , F.R.S. , " On the Diffusion of Liquids .
" The apparatus used in studying the diffusion of salts and other substances into water was very simple .
It consisted of an open phial to contain the solution of the salt to be diffused , which was entirely immersed in a large jar of pure water , so that the solution in the phial communicated freely with the latter .
Phials cast in a mould of the capacity of four ounces of water , or more nearly 2000 grains , were generally employed , which were ground down to a uniform height of 3-8 inches .
The neck was 0'5 inch in depth , and the 1 aperture or mouth of the phial 1'25 inch in diameter .
The phial was filled up with the solution to be diffused till it reached the point of a pin dipping exactly 0'5 inch into the mouth of the bottle .
This being the solution cell or bottle , and the external jar the 6 " waterjar , " the pair together form a " diffusion cell .
" The diffusion was stopped , generally after seven or eight days , by closing the mouth of the phial with a plate of glass , and then raising it out of the water-jar .
The quantity of salt which had found its way into the water-jar the ditffusion product as it was called-was then determined by evaporating to dryness .
The characters of liquid diffusion were first examined in detail with reference to common salt .
It was found , first , that with solutions containing 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 per cent. of salt , the quantities which diffused out of the phials into the water of the jars , and were obtained by evaporating the latter , in a constant period of eight days , were as nearly in proportion to these numbers , as 1 , 1 ?
99 , So01 and 4'00 ; and that in repetitions of the experiments , the results did not vary more than l-40th part .
The proportion of salt which diffused out in such experiments amounted to about 1-Sth of the whole .
Secondly , that the proportion of salt diffused increases with the temperature ; an elevation of 800 Fahr. doubling the quantity of chloride of sodium diffused in the same time .
The diffusibility of a variety of substances was next compared , a solution of 20 parts of the substance in 100 water being always used .
Some of the results were as follows , the quantities diffused being expressed in grains : chloride of sodium 58'68 , sulphate of magnesia 27'42 , sulphate of water 69'32 , crystallized cane-sugar G26'7 , starch-sugar 26-94 , gum-arabic 13-24 , albumen 3-03 .
The low diffusibility of albumen is very remarkable , and the value of this property in retaining the serous fluids within the blood-vessels at once suggests itself .
It was further observed , that common salt , sugar and urea , added to the albumen under diffusion , diffused away froi the latter as readily as from their aqiueous solutions .
Urea itself is as highly diffusible as chloride of sodium .
In comparing the diffusion of salts dissolved in 10 times their weight of water , it was found that isomorphous compounds generally had an equal diffusibility , chloride of potassium corresponding with chloride of ammionium , nitrate of potash with nitrate of ammonia , and sulphate of magnesia with sulphate of zinc .
The most remarkable circumstance is that these pairs are " equi-diffusive , " not for chemically equivalent quantities , but for equal weights simply .
The acids differed greatly in diffusibility , nitric acid being nearly four times more diffusive than phosphoric acid ; but these substances also fell into groups , nitric and hydrochloric acids appearing to be equally diffusive ; so also acetic and sulphuric acids .
Soluble subsalts and the amironiated salts of the metals present a surprisingly low diffusibility ; the quantities diffused , under similar circumstances , of the three salts , sulphate of ammonia , sulphate of copper , and the blue ammonio-sulphate of copper being very nearly as 8 , 4 and 1 .
When two salts are mixed in the solution-cell , they diffuse out into the water atmosphere separately and independently of each other , according to their individual diffusibilities .
This is quite analogous to what happens when mixed gases are diffused into air .
An important consequence is , that in liquid diffusion we have a new method of separation or analysis for many soluble bodies , quite analogous in principle to the separation of unequally volatile substances in the process of distillation .
Thus , it was shown that chlorides diffuse out from sulphates and carbonates , and salts of potash from salts of soda ; and that from sea-w'ater the salts of soda diffuse out into pure water faster than the salts of magnesia .
The latter circumstance was applied to explain the discordant results which have been obtained by different chemists in the analyses of the water of the Dead Sea , taken near the surface ; the different salts diffusing up into the sheet of frpsh water , with which the lake is periodically covered , with unequal velocity .
It was further shown that chemical decompositions may be produced by liquid diffusion ; the constituents of a double salt of so much stability as common alum being separated , and the sulphate of potash diffusing in the largest proportion .
In fact , the diffusive force is one of great energy , and quite as capable of breaking up compounds as the unequal volatility of their constituents .
Many empirical operations in the chemical arts , it was said , have their foundation in such decompositions .
Again , one salt , such as nitrate of potash , will diffuse into a solution of another salt , such as nitrate of ammonia , as rapidly as into pure water ; the salts appearing mutually diffusible , as gases are known to be .
Lastly , the diffusibilities of the salts into water , like those of the gases into air , appear to be connected by simple numerical relations .
These relations are best observed when dilute solutions of the salts are diffused from the solution-cell , such as 4 , 2 or even 1 per cent. of salt .
The quantities diffused in the same time from 4 per cent. solutions of the three salts , carbonate of potash , sulphate of potash and sulphate of ammonia , were 10'25 , 10'57 and 10 ?
51 grains respectively ; and a similar approach to equality was observed in the 1 , 2 , and 62per cent. solutions of the same salts .
It also held at different temperatures .
The acetate of potash appeared to coincide in diffusibility with the same group , and so did the ferrocyanide of potassium .
The nitrate of potash , chlorate of potash , nitrate of ammonia , chloride of potassium and chloride of ammonium formed another equi-diffusive group .
The times in which an equal amount of diffusion took place in these two groups appear to be as 1 for the second to 1%414,2 for the first , or as I to the square root of 2 .
Now in gases , the squares of the times of equal diffusion are the densities of the gases .
The relation between the sulphate of potash and nitrate of potash groups would therefore fall , to be referred to the diffusion molecule or diffusion vapour of the first group having a density represented by 2 , while that of the second group is represented by 1 .
The corresponding salts of soda appeared to fall into a nitrate and 1 ' sulphate group also , which have the same relation to each other as the potash salts .
The relation of the salts of potash to those of soda , in times-of equal ( liffusibility , appeared to be as the square root of 2 to the square root of 3 ; which gives the relation in density of their diffusion molecules , as 2 to 3 .
Hydrate of potash and sulphate of magnesia were less fully examined , but the first presented sensibly double the diffusibility of sulphate of potash , and four times the diffusibility of the sulphate of magnesia .
If these times are all squared , the following remarkable ratios are obtained for the densities of the diffusion molecules of these different salts , each of which is the type of a class of salts , hydrate of potash 1 , nitrate of potash 2 , sulphate of potash 4 , sulphate of magnesia 16 , with nitrate of soda 3 and sulphate of soda 6 .
In conclusion , it was observed , that it is these diffusion molecules of the salts which are concerned in solubility , and not the Daltonian atoms or equivalents of chemical combination ; and the application was indicated of the knowledge of the diffusibilities of different substances to a proper study of endosmose .

