II .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Trigonocarpon ( a fossil fruit of the Coal-measures ) .
" By JOSEPH D. HOOKER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 23 , 1854 .
Having been for some time engaged in examining the structure and affinities of some fossil fruits of the coal formation , included under the name Trigonocarpon , and the progress which I am enabled to make being extremely slow ( owing to the difficulty of procuring good specimens ) , I am induced to lay before the Royal Society such results as I have arrived at , for publication in their Proceedings ( if thought worthy of that honour ) .
The details and illustrations of the subject will , when complete , be offered to the Geological Society of London .
My attention has for many years been directed to the genus Trigonocarpon ; as , from the period of my earliest acquaintance with the flora of the carboniferous epoch , I have felt assured , that botanically , this was the most interesting and important fossil which it contained in any great abundance , and that until the affinities of this were determined , the real nature of the flora in question could never be regarded as even approximately ascertained .
In the first place , Trigonocarpon is so abundant throughout the coal-measures , that in certain localities some species may be procured by the bushel ; nor is there any part of the formation in which they do not occur , except the underclays and limestone .
The sandstone , ironstones , shales and coal itself , all contain them .
Secondly .
The symmetry in form and size which many of them display , the regularity of the sculpturing on their surfaces , and various other points , suggested their belonging to a class of highly organized vegetables .
Thirdly .
The fact of our being wholly unacquainted with the organs of fructification belonging to the exogenous vegetation , which also abounds in the coal formation , coupled with the assumed highly organized nature of Trigonocarpon , favoured the assumption that these might throw light upon one another , and seemed to afford a legitimate basis upon which to proceed , should I ever procure specimens of Trigonocarpon displaying structure , which I had long hoped to do .
It is , however , only since my return from India that I have been so fortunate as to obtain good specimens , and for these I am indebted to my friend Mr. Binney of Manchester , who has himself thrown much light upon the vegetation of the coal epoch , and whose exertions indeed have alone enabled me to prosecute the subject ; since he has not only placed his whole collection of Trigonocarpons at my disposal , but has shared with me the trouble and expense of their preparation for study .
All the specimens were found imbedded in a very tough and hard black-band or clay ironstone , full of fragments of vegetable matter , and which appears originally to have been a fine tenacious clay .
The individual Trigonocarpons are exposed by breaking this rock , and are invariably so intimately adherent to the matrix as to be fractured with it .
A great many of these lumps of ironstone , containing partially exposed Trigonocarpons , have been sliced by a lapidary in the usual manner , and excessively thin sections taken on slips of glass .
The sections were made necessarily very much at random , but as nearly as possible parallel , or at right angles to the long diameter of the fruit .
Five of the specimens thus operated upon have proved instructive , presenting the same appearances , and all being intelligible , and referable to one highly developed type of plants .
As , however , the term highly developed may appear ambiguous , especially with reference to a higher or lower degree in the scale of vegetable life , I may mention that by this term I mean to imply that there are in the fruit of Trigonocarpon extensive modifications of elementary organs , for the purpose of their adaptation to special functions , and that these modifications are as great , and the adaptation as special , as any to be found amongst analogous fruits in the existing vegetable world .
Thus , I find that the integuments of the fruit of Trigonocarpon are each of them a special highly organized structure ; they are modifications of the several coats of one ovule , and indeed of the same number of integuments as now prevail in the ovules of living plants .
The number , structure and superposition of these , are strongly indicative of the Trigonocarpons having belonged to that large section of existing coniferous plants , which bear fleshy , solitary fruits , and not cones ; and they so strongly resemble the various parts of the fruit of the Chinese genus Salisburia , that , in the present state of our knowledge , it appears legitimate to assume their relationship to it .
In all the five specimens alluded to , there are more or less perfect evidences of four distinct integuments , and of a large cavity , which is in all filled with carbonate of lime and magnesia ; these minerals , I presume , having replaced the albumen and embryo of the seed .
The general form of the perfect fruit is an elongated ovoid ( rather larger than a hazel nut ) , of which the broader or lower end presents the point of attachment , while the upper or smaller end is produced into a straight , conical , truncated rostrum or beak , which is perforated by a straight longitudinal canal .
The exterior integument is very thick and cellular , and was no doubt once fleshy ; it alone is produced beyond the seed and forms the beak ; its apex I assume to have been that of the primine of the ovule , and its cavity the exostome .
The second coat appears to have been much thinner , but hard and woody or bony ; it is impervious at the apex ; is also ovoid , and sessile by its broad base within the outer integument , with which it is perhaps adherent everywhere except at the apex .
This is marked by three angles or ridges , and being that alone which ( owing to its hard nature ) commonly remains in the fossil state , has suggested the name of Trigonocarpon .
Within this are the third and fourth coats , both of which are very delicate membranes ; one appears to have been in close apposition with the inner wall of the second integument , and the other to have surrounded the albumen .
These are now separated both from one another , and from the inner wall of the cavity , by the shrinking of the contents of the latter , and the subsequent infiltration of water charged with mineral matter .
I may remark , however , that these two membranes may be due to the separation of one into two plates , in which case the original one was formed of several layers of cells .
Hitherto I have not been able to trace any organized structure within the cavity of the fruit , and its real nature therefore remains doubtful .
It is only from the strong resemblance , in structure , appearance and superposition , which these integuments present to those of Taxoid coniferse , that I assume their probable relationship .
Salisburia , especially , has the same ovoid fruit , sessile by its broader end , and its outer coat is perfectly analogous , being thick , fleshy , and perforated at its apex by a longitudinal canal ( the exostome of the ovule ) ; within this is a perfectly similar , woody , two or three angled , impervious integument , forming the nut .
This again is lined with one very delicate membrane , and contains a mass of albumen covered with a second similar membrane .
A marked analogy is presented to the European botanist by the fruit of the Yew , which has the same integuments though somewhat modified ; the outer , fleshy coat in the Yew is however a cupshaped receptacle , and not drawn up over the nut so as to leave only a small canal at the top , as in Salisburia and Trigonocarpon .
The nut also does not adhere to the fleshy cup except below its middle .
The internal structure is the same in all three .
Such are the main facts which I have been able satisfactorily to establish .
There are many others yet to be worked out , especially those connected with the individual tissues of which those bodies are composed ; and it is particularly to be borne in mind that the discovery of some structure indicative of albumen or embryo , is absolutely essential to the complete establishment of the affinity I have suggested .
It must not be overlooked , that the characters through which I have attempted to establish an affinity between Trigonocarpon and Coniferm are equally common to the fruits of Cycadeae ; and in connexion with this subject I may remark , that M. Brongniart* has referred the genus Noggerathia , which is also found in the coal-measures , to that natural order , together with some associated organs which are probably Trigonocarpons in a mutilated state .
The leaves of Noggerathia are , however , alone known , and Dr. Lindley , when figuring those of one species ( Lindley and Hutton , Fossil Flora , 28 , 29 ) , pointed out their great resemblance to those of Salisburia , thus affording collateral evidence of the view I have been led to adopt from an examination of the fruit alone .

