PHILOSOPHICAL T RAN SA CTI O NS .
XIV .
On the parallax of certain fixed stars .
By the Rev. John Brinkley , D , D. F. R. S. and Andrews professor of astronomy in the university of Dublin .
Read March 5 , 18i8 .
THE attention of the Royal Society has been lately called to the subject of the parallax of the fixed stars , by the astronomer royal ; and as this has been occasioned principally by the results of observations which I have made at the Observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , I have taken the liberty of offering a few remarks relative to , and connected with this subject .
The Royal Society did me the honour to publish at extract of a letter to the late Dr. MASKELYNE on the parallax of x lyra ; since which time , in pursuing my observations , I have met with apparent motions in several of the fixed stars , the cause of which I was unable to explain , unless by attributing them to parallax .
Among these stars a aquile exhibited the greatest change of place .
The results of my observations have been published in the Qith volume of the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy I there detailed my reasons for supposing that I could not have been misled by any source of error in the instrument , or in the mode of observing ; and I trust , whatever may be the final result as to this subject , that I shall not be considered as having too hastily adopted the explanation by parallix .
I remarked , in the essay to which I have referred , my reasons for not being surprised that the Greenwich circle did not immediately confirm my results .
However , after several years observations , Mr. POND was led , although he had found discordances of a similar kind , but much less than mine , to doubt the explanation by parallax , and certainly with good reason , as two instruments that might be supposed equally adapted for the examination , seemed to give different results ; in consequence of which he took measures for submitting the matter to another kind of trial .
He most laudably applied to the Royal Society , as visitors of the Royal Observatory ; and by their assistance , and by the advantage of vicinity to the first artists , he has been enabled to put up his fixed telescopes .
Thus , unless unforeseen difficulties shall be found to exist , this question is likely to be soon decided ; and certainly on many accounts , it is a most interesting questiont , It is now about sixteen months since Mr. POND informed me of his doubts respecting the conclusion I had drawn from my results , and from that time I have anxiously looked to every observation that tended to confirm my conclusion , if just , or invalidate it , if wrong .
The last two years have been very unfavourable for astronomical observations ; so that my opportunities always , in consequence of the cloudy atmosphere , very few , have been 76 during that time fewer than usual .
However , I have been able to obtain some results that I shall notice farther on , which appear to coincide with my former ones as to a aquilae , in a remarkable manner ; and it is to this star that we are , I think , to look for the final decision of the question .
As to a lyrae and arcturus , my results have not been so uniform as I had expected from my former observations ; but as to a cygni , my recent observations are consistent with my former ones , in exhibiting the same discordance between the summer and winter observations as before , which appeared to me to point out a parallax for that star , but less than for any of the other three stars .
The results of the observations of Mr. POND .
by the fixed telescope , as given in the last volume of the Tl'ransactions , appear , at first sight , very decisive against the existence of any visible parallax in a cygni ; but in considering these observations , a difficulty suggests itself , which if founded , will render the result deduced from a cygni and./ aurigae quite inconclusive .
This , and some other points relative toc the fixed telescopes , will be noticed farther on .
If it shall appear that I have been deceived by a constant source of error in my instrument as to these stars , it will be of much inportance to investigate that source ; and although at present I can form no conjecture as to any cause , yet , when it shall be found actually to exist , it will be incumbent on me to endeavour most strenuously to investigate the cause ; and in so doing , I conceive I shall render a most accep-'ob !
e service to astronomers .
It will be shown , whether it be a cause that will be likely to affect other instruments .
It appears at present , from the results of Mr. POND , that the 277 Greenwich circle is subject to a similar cause of error ( supposing the discordance should not arise from parallax ) , and that this cause has been diminished , if not entirely done away , by reducing the internal air to the same temperature as the external .
However , from all the consideration that I have been enabled to give the subject , I am led to entertain doubts of the fitness of an instrument similar to the Greenwich mural circle , for this delicate enquiry .
I do not allude to the objection stated by Mr. POND , since , as he justly observes , that is obviated by keeping the telescope fixed to the same place on the circle during a period of observations , as was the case in the observations of 1813 , and as to those mentioned in the Appendix .
And in respect to Mr. POND 's paper , and its Appendix , as given in the first part of the Transactions for 1817 , it appears to me doubtful , whether the results , if they could be exactly obtained ( that is , if the elements from which they are deduced were exact ) , may not be such as to furnish a discordance explained by a parallax nearly equal to mine , or whether the results might not be entirely against parallax .
My reasons for entertaining these doubts , will appear in the following remarks respecting the elements used in computing the index error , in instruments similar to the Greenlwich mural circle .
The polar distance of a star , as observed by a mural circle , requires , besides the corrections for refraction , aberration , annual variation , &amp;c. also the application of the index error .
This index error is determined by the mean of re.sults deduced from observations of stars of the standard catalogue .
278 Let i= index error .
d mean polar distance of a star of the standard catalogue deduced from observation .
c= mean polar distance of the same star in the catalogue .
Then if 3d -C Let o= observed polar distance .
r= refraction .
p= parallax .
a= aberration of light .
n= nutation .
s= semiannual equation .
v= annual variation .
Then i= o +rp +aa +n+s + ' v--_ these quantities being applied with proper signs .
Now i partakes of the error or uncertainty of each of these quantities .
i. Let us suppose that there is no error from the observation or construction of the instrument ; that is , let us suppose o exact .
2 .
As to refraction .
Any uncertainty in the quantity of refraction affects the index error , and therefore the required polar distance of a star , although that star should be in or near the zenith .
Thus the determination of the polar distance of a star in the zenith , will partake of any uncertainty in the refraction of the lower stars used for the index error .
Let us see to what this may amount as to the index error by a single star .
BRADLEY'S refractions , by which the Greenwich observations have hitherto been computed , differ from the French refractions as follows .
The French refraction at 450=57 , " 5 therm. 50 , and BRADLEY'S refraction at 45 =56 , 9 barom .
29,60 and the mean diff.-0",6 x tan .
zen .
dist. nearly .
But this will not affect the index error , as it equally affects r , &amp;c. But the effects of the change of temperature as computed by BRADLEY'S , and by the French refractions , have an important concern in this enquiry .
To deduce the actual refraction from the mean refraction for height of thermometer = t , the mean refraction is multiplied by 40-o according to BRADLEY .
According to the French tables , the multiplier is 5.o +50+t at least sufficiently nearly so for the 3o standard stars of Mr. POND .
The difference then between BRADLEY'S refraction and the French refraction from the change of temperature , is nearly 2000 x mean refraction .
Now Procyon is one of the standard stars ; and when this star passes the meridian in June , soon after mid-day , we may suppose FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer at 70 ?
; and when this star passes the meridian in December , near midniight , the thermometer may be at 30o .
The mean refraction of this star at Greenwich , is 58 " nearly .
Therefore the refraction computed by the French table may , in summer , exceed that computed by BRADLEYaS table by 0 , " 58 , and the contrary may s8o take place in winter .
Hence an uncertainty in the index error , which as deduced from Procyon , might occasion a difference in the zenith distance of ( ex. gr. ) a lyrae in summer and winter , t i " ' , i6 , bearing a considerable proportion to the supposed discordance in summer and winter .
This is an extreme case : the index correction , as deduced from other stars , would not be so much affected .
The polar star below the pole , is likely to be often used , and might occasion an uncertainty of about i " under similar circumstances .
When I call this uncertainty , I suppose the matter is entirely doubtful as to the preference to be given to either of the formulae .
BRADLEY'S law of change from temperature was deduced from his astronomical observations , but other astronomical observations do not contradict the law of the French formula ; which has also been confirmed by physical experiments , And seems more to be depended on .
It appears then that an incorrect law may materially affect the index error , and occasion incorrect results .
It therefore seems of the first importance with respect to a mural circle , to ascertain with exactness the law of variation of refraction from change of temperature ; otherwise errors will be mixed up in all the conclusions .
It will not be possible to deduce easily , by the results from BRADLEY'S refractions , the results that the French refractions would give .
For this purpose it will be necessary not only to know the mean temperature at the observations of the star , whose north polar distance is required , but also the temperature at the observations of stars by which the index error is computed , which in fact is much the same as to recompute the index error , I know not how far this may have been a source of inaccuracy in the north polar diAtances ( p. 388 , Phil. Trans. 1815 ) : from the French refractions .
They seem to have been merely deduced from the column of N. P. D. by BRADLEY'S refraction , and the mean heights of the barometer and thermometer , as given in page 386 .
3 .
As to p , or the effect of parallax , we are not certain that many of the standard stars may not have a parallax in declination , amounting to a fraction of a second .
This therefore so far Iill render the index error uncertain .
4 .
As to a , or the effect in declination of the aberration of light .
The maximum of aberration , pretty generally adopted of late years by astronomers , is 20 , e25 .
The researches of the Chevalier 'DELAMBRE have principally led to thi , .
The maximum formerly used was 2o " .
The former is probably more exact , but by no means certainly so .
It is even possible that the maximum of aberration may be so low as 20 ' , or 1,9,8 .
The strongest argument for 924 ?
is derived from the researches of M. DELAMBRE , respecting the reflected lightfrom Jupiter 's Satellites ; * v.hich certainly cannot be considered conclusive as to the direct light of the stars .
It seems reasonable to conclude , from an examination of Dr. BRADLEY'S paper on aberration , that this matter requires farther examination , and that there is an uncertainty amounting to a quarter of a second.-t If so , the index error com* DELAMB RE Astron. Tom. 3 , p. 105 t See note ( A ) at the end of this paper .
puted by the pole star may be uncertain o " , or o',3 , in July , and the same in an opposite direction in January .
Add to this , it has not been usual for astronomers to consider the variable velocity of the earth in its orbit .
The effect of this in N. P. D. a. to stars , the MR1 .
of which are nearly 3s or gs is always insensible , but not as to stars , the AJR .
of which are nearly os and 6 % , and are also far from the ecliptic .
This quantity is nearly ab .
in N. P c. Dn ab.6n I'.cos .
( o Long..9 9 ? .
) and therefore in the pole star may amount in July to 0",34 .
Hence , from these two causes , the uncertainty in the aberration of the pole star in declination in July may be == o',6 The joint effect of these causes will be o in October and in January .
The index error computed by the pole star when below the pole in July , will be opposite to the above , and thus the index errors so computed at the same time may differ i",29 5 .
As to n , or the nutation , according to some astronomers , the nutation in declination , =7".85 Sin. ( j-s-a ) + 'L,15 Sin. ( 2RJ + ) ( 1 ) according to others , 8",4 Sin. ( JR-a ) + I",2 Sin. ( R-+ sa ) ( 2 ) M. LAPLACE* made it ( as will appear by the proper reductiois ) so great as 8",76 Sin. ( A-- ) + 1",35 Sin. ( A + sa ( 3 ) ( i ) is the tlutation according to LAMBERT'S tables .
The maximum of for ; mula ( 3 ) was deduced from the mass of the moon , - , ( the earth being unity ) , as determined by the tides at the port of Breast .
LAPLACE* afterwards modified this quantity , in consequence of the determination of DELAMBRE , as to the lunar equation of the solar tables ; of the determination of Dr. MASKELYNE , as to the nutation itself from BRADLEY'S observations ; and of the determination of M. BURG , as to the parallax of the moon .
These three determinations agree in deducing nearly the same mass of the moon , and induced LAPLACE to adopt 65 ' and then the nutation will be nearly that in formula ( 2 ) , which is nearly the same as that of DELAMBRE , t LAPLACE has farther considered this subject , a and finds , according to a high degree of probability , that the maximum is between 9,3 , and 9 , " 94 From the above there is evidently room for some uncertainty , which uncertainty may be doubled , by taking two stars differing 180 ?
in right ascension .
M. DELAMBRE , although he thinks the maximum in aberration is settled , supposes the mass of the moon still subject to some uncertainty . ? ?
6 .
As to s , or the semiannual equation as it is called .
This 0',48 Sin. ( .
o.-~ ) .
Here , on account of the smallness of the quantity of this equation , there is no room for any material uncertainty .
There is also another equation omitted by astronomers , viz. o , o04 Sin. ( 2 X-J ) .
This cannot occasion a greater difference than o",08 , and therefore scarcely need be noticed even among the minute objects of this enquiry .
7 .
As to v , or the variation in declination .
This consists of two parts , one the effect of the precession of the equinoxes , and the other of the proper motion of the star .
The former seems determined with sufficient accuracy .
Also as far as regards the stars of the standard catalogue of Mr. POND , the latter seems pretty well agreed on among astronomers .
But here arises a question of some importance : is thQ proper motion of each star uniform ?
It is assumned to be so in computing it by two results separated by a long interval .
A series of results sufficiently accurate , and separated by intervals sufficiently long , have not yet been obtained to ascertain this important point .
A star of the 6th magnitude , 1 Leporis , seems to furnish an instance of a variable proper motion , by a comparison of the observations of BRADLEY and M. PIAZZI .
There is nothing against a variable proper motion in our theories of the nature and motions of the fixed stars .
Hence , another source of uncertainty in computing the index error .
8 .
Lastly , as to c , or the mean polar distance in the standard catalogue .
This is subject to two uncertainties .
The original error in the catalogue , and an uncertainty in the annual variation , as mentioned in the last article .
Notwithstanding all the care that has .
been used by iMr POND in perfecting his standard catalogue , it may containl small inaccuracies , as will easily be apprehended from the observations in the preceding articles .
The uncertainties to which the index error is liable from the above causes , are indepentdent of those to which the observation to which it is applied , is also subject .
It may be ; 285 said , that these uncertainties tend to correct each other , and that the uncertainty remaining , after taking a mean of results from several stars , will be too small to be regarded .
This indeed may be said as to the index error when applied to observations of the sun , moon , or planets ; but not , I think , when it is applied to investigations relative to the parallax of the fixed stars , annual variation of north polar distance , exact determination of the quantity of aberration and nutation , and these , it will be allowed , are objects of great importance in the present improved state of astronomy .
Indeed , with respect to the parallax of the fixed stars , several of these objections may be obviated by a proper selection of the standard stars .
Thus the uncertainties of refraction may be avoided by using only stars near the zenith .
The objection in the 8th article may be partly obviated by using the same stars for ascertaining the index error at the two periods of greatest and least parallax , and so of other uncertainties .
No error as to parallax arises from neglecting the unequal motion of the earth in its orbit , as far as regards the index error computed by the same stars at the two periods .
But this selection of stars will be limiting the use of the instrument , and the advantage of a mean of a number of observations lost ; and in fact , with respect to the index errors used in determining the N. P. D. of a Lyre , r Aquila , and a Cygni , as given by Mr. POND , Phil. Trans , 1817 , no particular selection of stars , with a view to these points , seems to have been made .
It may also perhaps be suggested , that the mural circle may be used without applying index error , as was done with 286 respect to the observations given in the appendix of Mr. POND'S first paper .
But the knowledge of the stability of the index error during six or eight months , depends on the reductions by the standard stars ; and therefore the above sources of uncertainty remain .
Mr. PoND remarks , that between July and March the index error may have oscillated a small fraction of a second on each side the mean , and not more ; so that I think no important conclusion can be deduced from the results in that appendix .
The differences between the exterior and interior temperature may have tended to exaggerate the discordance between the summer and winter observations made at Greenwich ; but it may appear that sufficient observations have not been made to ascertain this point , when we consider the many other sources of uncertainty .
As far as I have examined into this matter , with respect to my own observations , I cannot suppose any of my discordances materially affected by the difference of exterior and interior temperature .
The room containing the circle at Greenwich is much smaller , and less lofty than the room of this Observatory , which contains both the circle and transit instrument .
I hope I have so expressed myself , that I shall be understood to mean , that I consider the results of observations hitherto made by the Greenwich circle inconclusive as to the existence or non-existence of parallax , merely from the uncertainty of the elements used in the reductions , not from any errors of the observations , or from any defects in the construction of the instrument .
I more particularly offer to the consideration of astroaomners the preceding remarks , as in the present state of 287 astronomy , the relative fitness of instruments for ascertaining with precision the smaller motions , whether real or apparent , .
of thefixed stars , is an object of importance .
In instruments similar to that belonging to the Observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , the index eror is found by reversing the instrument , the position of the vertical axis being ascertained by a plumb line .
Thus the determination of the index error is not materially affected by any of the uncertainties above referred to , Therefore , by its principle , this instrument should appear particularly adapted for en-quiries relative to the annual parallax , annual variation .
&amp;c. &amp;c. Fromn the fixed telescopes we are probably to look for the final decis'on of the question of parallax .
At first sight these seem to offr a very simple aid certain criterion .
However , a little consideration will point out probable sources of difficulty .
Suppose the star under examination be compared with a star oplosite in , or with one as nearly so as can be conveniently had .
Besides the uncertainty respecting the annual variation , even the uncertainty in the quantity of aberration may tend in some degree to conceal the parallax , unless the minimnum of aberration in declination of each star be at the same time , and the observations are made pretty equally on both sides of this time .
The star Aurigae has been judiciously chosen by Mr. POND to compare with X Cygni .
A , more proper star could not have been chosen ; yet here the effect of an uncertainty in the maximum of aberration amounting only to i of a second , will have-a sensible eect .
If we suppose the maximum only .
go " ; as I believe the max , imum used .
b Mr. POND is ao0 ' " his winter diat'ace for 2e8 the observations given would be increased o " , e , and his summer distance decreased by about the same quantity ; which Would make his results differ in the same direction as they should do by the effect of parallax .
I do not intend by this that any argument in favour of parallax can be deduced from his results , but only to show the effect of small uncertinties .
There may be uncertainty as to the stability of the instrument during the interval which elapses between the successive -observations of M Cygni and 3 Aurigae , which is sometimes necessarily of several days .
This is the point before alluded to ; and there appears , on examining Mr. PoND 's results as to Cygni and 3 Auriga , indications of such an instability , and that to an amount that may do away the conclusion he has drawn from these ob:servations .
The seconds of the micrometer for the same star should be the same in summer and winter , after the usual reductions , supposing no uncertainties in the elements of these reductions , supposing no parallax , and supposing no derangement in the instrument .
Now , referring to Mr. PoNs 's paper , the seconds for a Cygni are decreased by about g ' in summer , and those of B Aurige inereased by nearly the same quantity .
This may be concluded to arise from a derangement in the instrument by the change of temperature , as Mr. POND has mentioned no other cause .
The effect of an increase of temperature , therefore , appears to be to decrease the seconds of a Cygni , and to increase those of 3 Auriga .
Applying this to observations of the same day in winter , a Cygni passes the meridiannear noon , and t3 Aurige near midnight , or at least A89 late in the evening .
An increase of temperature , therefore , relative to a Cygni takes place , and the seconds in a Cygni become less than they would have been had the temperature remained the same as in the night .
The sum of the seconds of a Cygni and 3 Aurigae is diminished by this cause , and it would be increased by the effect of parallax .
Hence this cause tends to conceal the effect of parallax in winter .
In summer the passages of a Cygni and P Aurigae are reversed as to noon , and the sum of the quantities increased by temperature and decreased by parallax .
This explanation , if justly founded , will have a tendency to diminish the value of stars nearly opposite in m , which Mr. PoND so judiciously selected , and by which he avoided any uncertainty from differences of parallax .
As to S ' Cygni , the winter observations , Mr. POND remarks , are far from satisfactory ; and they seem too few and too discordant to decide any thing , even supposing we were certain of the annual variation of 3 Cygni , and that it had no visible parallax .
I shall now proceed to state briefly the results of my observations up to the present time , which appear to point out parallax as toa Cygni , aAquile , and Lyre ; also the results of observations of 'y Draconis .
a Cygni The winter observations of this star cannot be materially affected by any uncertainty in the maximum of aberration , .
being made nearly equally on both sides of the time when parallax is greatest , and aberration =o .
But the summer observations being generally made after the time when aberration in declination = o , the effect of a less maximum of aberration is to increase parallax .
I have therefore used for my recent observations 2o"t , and corrected my former ones , which were computed with 0o " max .
of aberration ; thus using the most unfavourable quantity .
Summer Z. dist. Jan. i , i815 .
|i N ? .
Ob.i , , , 1811 &amp; 1812I 23 i8 45 45,71 +,74P 1814 1o 45,97 +,72 p 1815 so 46 , s+ -,48 p 1817 14 45 , + 68 p 67 Winter Z. dist. Jan. 1 , 1815 .
N ? .
Ob .
O , !
1810-1i3 9 ?
4 8 45 47,1,76 p 1814-15 i2 s 46,79 -,8 p 1816-17 4 16 46,57-,76 p The correct means of the preceding results being taken by attributing to each a weight proportional to the number of observatidns , we obtain 80 45 ' 46",86,77 p8* 45 ' 45,77 +,63 p or p == o",78 or sp 1",56 , the angle subtended by the diameter of the earth 's orbit at the star .
Aquile .
The stars 3 and y Aquilae pass the meridian within a few minutes of the passage of a Aquile ; and as they are much inferior in brightness to that star , and differ less than 3 degrees in declination from it , I considered that if I could observe the three stars on the same day , the comparisons of the observations in winter and summer would furnish much information relative to the parallax of M Aquilae .
As the stars pass so nearly together , there was not sufficient time to read off the three microscopes for each observation ; I therefore , for some time , read off only the bottom microscope for y , to be compared with the reading of the bottom microscope for a , and the three microscopes for a , giving up the observation of 3 .
Afterwards , I only read off the bottom microscope for s , and thus was enabled to observe 3 .
Unfortunately from the few observations to be obtained in October and November , when the sun approaches these stars , I have not succeeded hitherto in obtaining a sufficient number of observations ; but my summer observations appear very satisfactory , in agreeing with the result from the former observations of these stars , which were made in the autumn of 1813 , and with Mr. POND'S north polar distances ; whereas the summler zenith distance of a Aquilae has been uniformly less than the winter zenith distance of that star .
So that , as far as I have gone with this kind of trial , the results have been very strong in favour of the parallax of a Aquilae .
As in my recent observations of this star , only the bottom microscope has been used , I have deduced results from all my former observations of a Aquile from the bottom microscope only .
292 The conclusion as to the parallax of this star does not differ materially from my former one , where the three microscopes were used .
Summer Zenith dist. Jan. 1 , 1817 .
N ? .
Ob .
by bottom microscope .
1808-1812 38 44 59 6,38 +,38 p 1814 21 i 36,92 + , p 1815-1816 22 36,10 +,30p 1817 25 36,54 +,6 p io6i j 106 i Winter Zenith dist. Jan. i , 1817 .
J NOIN ' .
Obh ; by bottom microscope .
i1808-1812 38 44 59 38,51 --,4 P 1813-1814 24 39 , o0 --,47 P 1816-1817 20 38,36,45 P:1817-1818 1o ' 37507 44 P1 02 The correct means give 440 59 ' 3647,3 p =44 ? ?
59 ' 38,36 -,44 P i,89 It 2It5 p ... ..,53,74 or ep= 5 " , o by 2o8 observations .
293 a Lyrae .
The following are the results of my observations of a Lyrae , My former observations are here reduced to what they would be by the French refractions , and the other observations have been reduced , taking the maximum of aberration = 20o .
Both circumstances tend to diminish in a small degree the parallax ; but the result from all my observations gives the double parallax above a second less than I should have expected from my former observations .
Whether the discordance I had found was to be attributed to parallax , or any other cause , I had expected the new results would not materially differ from my former conclusions .
Although it has happened otherwise , yet an examination of the different results will , I conceive , be found not to contradict my former remarks respecting the accuracy to be attained by my instrument .
Summer Zenith dist. Jan. i , 181 1 .
; N ? .
Ob .
b. 18o8-1i813 65 14 46 1 9,3S5+ 78 p $E 18141 20 ' 19,87--,78 p| 1815 20 19.86 +,74 i8 i6 1t 1 2o,46 +,77 7p 1817 12 19,62,62 p8'* 128 ; .994 Winter Zenith dist. Jan. i , 1811 .
N Ob .
, ,J 1808-1813 , 6i 14 46 2o,96-,79 p. 1814-1815o 20 21,00 -,78 p 18x-1i816 14 19,47-,68 p 1816-1817 15 20,88,76 p:817-181i8 4 20 , o6-,76 134 The correct means give 19,63 +,76 p 2o",64,77 p or p 0o,66 or 2p -= i",3 , the result of 262 observations of a Lyrae .
y Draconis .
Of this star , the mean of 53 observations in o , winter gives mean Z.D. Jan. 1 1814 .
=1 52 17,55 59 observations in summer give =1 52 17,92 This r2sult is in a direction contrary to parallax , and therefore had I compared the differences of zenith distances of this star and a Lyrae , in summer and winter , the result would have given me a greater parallax for a Lyrze .
This conclusion is quite opposite to that of Mr. POND , and seems to me a point of much difficulty to be explained .
However , from the mean of my late results as to a Lyrae , I am inclined now , to consider my former argument deduced from 7y Draconis of less weight than I had attributed to it , not thinking the observations of y Draconis sufficiently numerous .
295 I have thus stated the results of my observations , and the conclusions that seem to follow as to the parallax of the respective stars .
The many causes that may lead , if not to actual error , at least to a high degree of uncertainty , induced me in the paper alluded to , to speak with hesitation as to my explanation .
The observations of Mr. POND , as far as they go , seem to invalidate that explanation , particularly as to c Cygni and a Lyra .
It is by observation alone that the decision can be made .
No conjecture as to the relative distances of the stars can be of any material weight .
The conjecture , in itself probable , that the brightest stars are nearest to us , seems opposed by another conjecture , also by itself probable , that those stars are nearest which have the greatest proper motion .
Some of the brightest fixed stars have scarcely any sensible proper motions , while those of some much smaller are very perceptible .
The two stars , 61 Cygni , have each an annual proper motion of about 5",3 in right ascension , and of 3 " in declination .
These stars are of about the 6th magnitude , and one a little brighter than the other .
This great proper motion seemed to render it probable , that these stars are sufficiently near to us , to have a visible parallax .
I accordingly made observations on one of them , but found nothing satisfactory .
Also 40 Eridani , which is of the 5th magnitude , has so great a proper motion , that we might conjecture it to be nearer to us than many of the brighter stars .
The uncertainty , therefore , respecting the relative distances , as deduced from their degrees of brightness , weakens conclusions against parallax drawn from differences of north 296 polar distances of stars having nearly the same right ascension , and north polar distance .
Itwould be an interesting circumstance , could the existence of visible parallax in any one star be ascertained , and placed beyond doubt , by the joint results of two separate instruments .
The comparison of my summer and winter observations of M Aquilae indicating so great a parallax , induces me to expect that as to this star it may yet be accomplished .
Mr. POND suggests that the effects of refraction may occasion some uncertainty as to this star .
This can only arise from irregularity of refraction ; and it seems scarcely possible that the mean of too observations can be sensibly affected thereby .
My refractions have been computed from the internal thermometer placed on the instrument : had they been computed by the external thermometer , the difference between the summer and winter zenith distances of X Aquilae would have been lessened about o",3 .
As a Aquile passes the meridian near noon in winter , there is seldom much difference then between the external and internal thermometer here .
If the discordance which I have found between the summer and winter zenith distances had arisen from the different temperatures at the two seasons , it might have been expected that Aldebaran , Capella , a Orionis and Procyon would have been much more affected by this cause ; as in winter they pass the meridian at night , and in summer in the day time ; and therefore as to these the observations are made in the extremes of temperature .
To many , the time and labour spent in this minute enquiry , may appear wasted .
Some however will justly appreciate 297 the exertions that have been made here and at Greenwich .
Several attempts to observe the parallax of the fixed stars have failed since the time of Dr. HOOKE , and Mr. FLAMSTEAD , * and if this should end like the rest , it will be some satisfaction to have , ascertained , beyond doubt , certain limits ; and also , probably to have occasioned these limits to be still farther circumscribed by the observations of Mr. POND , in the event of his not confirming my conclusions .
* See note ( B ) .
Observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , Feb. 20 , 818 .
Note ( A ) .
Upon examination of Dr. BRADLEY'S* account of the aberration , it will appear , I think , that the maximum of aberration deduced therefrom , cannot be depended on to j of a second .
Dr. BRADLEY afterwards mentions , in his paper on the nutation , that he had revised his computation , and states o " 'as the result nearest the truth .
The result from the eclipses of Jupiter 's satellites , as deduced by M. DELAMBRE , is 0o- .
The limit of the probable error of this latter determination is not easily known ; but it appears to me that we ought to adopt the result of Dr. BRADLEY'S revision , rather than any conclusion we can deduce from the data in his first paper .
We have not the original observations to refer to ; and it is to be remarked , that he puts down all the maxima of changes of declination ( D-D ' ) in seconds , without fractional parts , and thence deduces for each star the maximum of aberration .
D -D 2a2 af y Draconis 39 404 40,3 jDraconis 39 40,2 40,2 v Ursae Maj ' .
36 40,4 40 , Cassiopeae 3 40,8 4,1 T Persei 2 41 , o 414 a Persei 23 40 , 40,2 35 Camel.19 40 , 40,2 .
Capella 16 400 , 39,7 Mean 40,40 40,44 I re-computed the maximum of aberr .
from column D-.D ' , and find the results as in column sa - , which differ a little from BRADLEY'S results in column 2 a , but differ considerably from M. ZACH'S results ( Conn. des Temps .
1810 , p. 459 ) as to r Persei and 35 Camel .
However , M. ZACH seems not to have attended to Dr. BRADLEY'S remark respecting r Persei , and therefore , as to this star , his result is erroneous ; and his different result from 35 Camel .
must have been an error of computation .
It is evident both from the consistent results , and Dr. BRADLEY'S remarks , respecting the annual variation , which he deduced from observation , that his observations from whence the above results have been deduced , must have been extremely accurate .
The changes of nutation ( evident by his observations , but at that time unknown to him ) are included in the annual variation ; and hence no source of error on this account , except from error of observation : therefore we may conclude that had Dr. BRADLEY used the fractional parts of the seconds , the maximum would have been very accurate .
W ?
e cannot now estimate the effect of this omission ; we can only see that it is probable it has had a sensible effect on his conclusion ; and we may suppose this to have been corrected by his subsequent revision .
His words in the paper 0 on nutation are , " I have again examined my observations that were most proper to determine the transverse axis of the ellipse , which each star seems to describe , and have found it to be nearest to 40 " ; which number I therefore make use of in the following computations .
" He had at first concluded it to be 2o ' " .
On the whole then , it seems that 2o " is the result deduced from the direct light of the fixed stars , and 2oi from the solar light reflected from Jupiter 's satellites .
It is highly probable that future observation will find these quantities exactly equal .
At present there exists an uncertainty .
Note ( B. ) The results of the attempts of HOOKE and FLAMSTEAD are remarkable ; the former reasoned justly on inaccurate observations , and the latter wrong on exact ones ; and both imagined they had discovered a parallax .
HOOKE , who erected at Chelsea a fixed telescope , 36 feet long , for observing y Draconis , found a change of place agreeing with a considerable parallax .
The great mechanical skill of Dr. HooKE , the length of his telescope , and the precautions he took , seemed to leave no doubt .
Dr. BRADLEY , in his paper on the aberration , expresses great * Phil. Trans. xlv , ; or Old Abridge .
x , 3z .
Soo surprise at the erroneous results of HOOKE'S observations ; which he , Dr. BRADLEY , had considered as exact , till they were contradicted by Mr. MOLYNEAUX'S observations , and by his own .
He says , " I cannot well conceive that an instrument of the length of 36 feet , constructed in the manner he describes his , could have been liable to an error of o ' " ( which was doubtless the case ) , if rectified with so much care as he represents .
" It may be remarked here , that the results of the observations of a Cygni with the fixed telescope of Mr. POND , as given in the last volume of the Transactions , would in themselves appear to indicate a considerable parallax in that star , and thus produce an error similar to that of HOOKE .
But Mr. POND guarded against such a source of error , by using two stars ; and therefore no derangement of the instrument could affect his results , except as far as it might take place between two succeeding observations .
FLAMSTEAD'S instrument , which he has described in his letter to Dr. WALLIS , * was a mural arch of 140 ?
, by which he could observe all stars visible in his hemisphere ; and observe below the pole all circumpolar stars that were not above 11 i from the pole .
He deduced the index error of his instrument by observations of the pole star corrected for refraction ; not at first considering any correction for parallax as necessary but he soon found a correction necessary , which he attributed to the effect of parallax .
In this he was singularly mistaken .
The result of his observations was , that the diameter of the circle described by the pole star about the pole , was t ' 2o ' , or '30o " greater in summer than ni winter .
Wallis Oper , tom .
iii .
p. 701 .
Sol parallax , &amp;c. This we now know to be the effect of the aberration of light .
Thus FLAMSTEAD'S observations give the maximum of aberration 2o " , or 22"- .
The near agreement of this with BRADLEY'S result is much greater than could have been expected from FLAMSTEAD'S instrument ; but the remarkable circumstance is , that FLAMSTEAD should have been so much mistaken in his mathematical application ; and that WALLIS , who interested himself much in the question of parallax , did not point out his mistake : it can only be attributed to the great age of WALLIS , who was then in his 83rd year .

