The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Generation of the Marsupial Animals 3 with a Description of the impregnated Uterus of the Kangaroo .
" By Richard Owen , Esq. , Member and Assistant Conservator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , London .
Communicated by Sir Anthony Carlisle , F.R.S. ?
was commenced .
May J , 1834 .
BENJAMIN COLL1NS BRODIE , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Mr. Owen 's paper was resumed , and concluded .
The author gives a history of the opinions which have been ad ?
vanced relative to the generative organs and functions of the Marsupiata , an extensive order of quadrupeds , including animals nourished by every variety of food , and exercising very different powers of progression , yet exhibiting a remarkable uniformity in their mode of reproduction .
In all the genera included in this family , the uterus is double ; in most of them the vagina is also double ; and there is always a single cloacal outlet for the excrementitious substances , and the products of generation .
There is a corresponding uniformity in the male organs , which are bifurcnted at the extremity , and have a double groove for the transmission of the semen ; and the male has not only marsupial bones , similar to those of the female , but also a muscle , similar to that which surrounds and compresses the mammary gland in the female , winding round these bones like pulleys , and acting as cremasters for the retraction and compression of the testes .
A minute description is then given of the results of the dissection of the impregnated uterus of a kangaroo , which was obtained by Mr. George Bennett , during a short residence in New South Wales , and which , together with the impregnated uteri of the Ornithorhynchus and other valuable specimens , were sent to the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .
The membrane corresponding to the chorion , or external envelope of the foetus , was found not to have a vascular structure , and not to adhere in any part to the surface of the uterus ; neither was there any appearance of a placental or of a villous structure .
It adhered internally to a vascular membrane , into which the umbilical stem of the foetus suddenly expanded , and which terminated in a well-defined ridge , formed by the trunk of a terminal blood-vessel .
The three omphalo-mesenteric , or vitulline vessels , were traced , from the umbilical cord into the abdomen , where they terminated in the usual manner ; namely , the veins in the vena portse , and the artery in the aorta .
Hence it was apparent that the membrane on which they ramified , corresponded to the vascular layer of the germinal mem ?
bran , which , in oviparous animals , spreads over the yelk , or to the umbilical vessel of the embryos of ordinary mammalia .
The ventricles of the heart were completely joined together , and bore the same proportions to each other as in the adult ; a perfection of structure which is not observed in the embryos of ordinary mammalia at a cor ?
responding period of developement .
The lungs were equal in size to the heart , and were of a spongy texture , and full of red blood ; their precocious developement , compared with that of the abdominal or digestive organs , being evidently a provision for their early or premature exercise .
From the close resemblance in the structures of the ovary and Fal ?
lopian tubes of the kanguroo with those of ordinary mammalia , and from the circumstance of the young being nourished , after birth , by a secretion from mammary glands , the author concludes that the ovulum in the former animal quits the ovisac in a condition correspond ?
ing to that in the latter class , and increases in a similar manner as it descends to the uterus .
But as there is no formation of a placenta , it remains to be determined how the aeration of the foetal blood is effected : this , however , probably takes place through the chorion , although this membrane is not vascular , to an extent sufficient for the purposes of the vital functions of a foetus so imperfect , and whose uterine existence is of such short duration , as they are in this animal .
Reasons are given , which render it probable that in the Marsupiata an allantois and umbilical arteries are developed at a later period of gestation , corresponding in this respect to the foetal condition of the Batrachian reptiles , and corroborating the views entertained by the author , that the former family are essentially ovo-viviparous .
The author next proceeds to investigate the structure and condition of the mammary foetus in the Marsupiata , or that stage of its exist ?
ence when it is retained in the marsupial pouch , and derives its sustenance from the imbibition of milk from the mammary glands .
He reiates the observations which he has lately made on the foetus of a kanguroo in the Menagerie of the Zoological Society .
He ascertained that the period of uterine gestation in the animal is thirty-nine days , and examined the foetus a few hours after it had fixed itself to the nipple in the abdominal pouch , and when it was not much above an inch in length , and resembled an earth-worm , both in the colour and the semi-transparency of its integument .
Four days afterwards , he detached it from the nipple , and observed that although it moved its limbs freely , it was unable to regain its former situation .
The pa ?
rent endeavoured to replace it by introducing its head into the pouch , which it held open with its fore paws ; but these efforts were ineffectual , and the next day the foetus had disappeared , having , pro ?
bably , been destroyed by the mother .
The last section of the paper is occupied by an inquiry into the structure and analogies of the female generative organs of the Mar ?
supiata .
These are traced throughout the successive orders of mam ?
malia , to their connexions with various tribes of birds and reptiles , and is concluded by a disquisition on the final purposes of marsupial generation , and its relations to the other modes by which the con ?
tinuance of the race is accomplished , in the more elevated orders of animals , and which appear to have reference to the greater expansion and perfection of the brain , and the greater developement of the in ?
tellect ual faculties .

