The following communication was likewise read:_ , " On the Reproduction of the Toad and Frog without the intermediate stage of Tadpole .
" By Edward Joseph Lowe , Esq. , F.G.S. , F.R.A.S. Communicated by J. Lee , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 19 , 1853 .
The following brief remarks on the Toad ( Bufo vulgaris ) and the Frog ( Rana temporaria ) may perhaps be received with some degree of interest , as they are , I believe , contrary to the generally received notion of the procreation of these reptiles .
Ray , and most naturalists , at least , consider toads and frogs as oviparous animals , yet it is apparent that they are viviparous as well , or if they do not bring forth their young alive , have the power of reproduction in a different manner to the ova and subsequent tadpole .
Mr. J. Higginbottom of Nottingham , who has paid great attention to this subject , has clearly proved the development of the tadpole to the perfect toad in situations wholly deprived of light , as I have through his kindness several times witnessed .
My present remarks are intended to show that occasionally frogs and toads are reproduced in localities where it would be impossible for the intermediate stage of tadpole to have any existence .
First .
Toads deposit spawn in cellars and young toads are afterwards observed .
Last summer several masses of spawn were procured from my cellar , having been found deposited amongst decaying potatoes , &amp;c. , and subsequently young toads were noticed .
The cellar is free from water , arid at a considerable distance from any brook .
Secondly .
Young toads are observed about hot-beds .
In the kitchen-garden at Highfield House ( which is entirely walled round ) yoing toads have been noticed about the cucumberand melon-beds .
The gardeners have been in the habit of bringing toads to these beds to destroy the insects ; these have continued amongst the warm damp straw all summer .
It is after these beds have remained three or four months that the young ones have been noticed .
Toads would have to travel nearly half a mile to reach this garden from the brook or lake , and also to mount a steep hill , besides taking the opportunity of coming through the door .
Toads so small are not seen in any other part of the gardens .
Thirdly .
Young toads and frogs observed in abundance at the summit of another hill , whilst quite small .
During the past summer , especially in the month of July , very many young toads and frogs were seen amongst the strawberry plants , apparently from a week to a month old .
These might possibly have travelled from the brook a few hundred yards distant ; yet it is strange , that with the exception of these beds , no young toads could be found elsewhere in the garden .
A number of fullgrown toads are mostly to be seen about these beds .
Fourthly .
Young frogs dug out of the ground in the month of January .
In digging in the garden amongst the strawberry-beds ( near where so many toads were observed last summer ) in the middle of January in the present year , a nest of about a score young frogs were upturned .
These were apparently three or four weeks old , This ground had been previously dug in the month of August and many strawberry plants buried ; it was amongst a mass of these plants in a state of partial decomposition that these young ones were observed .
Fifthly .
Young frogs are bred in cellars where there is no water for tadpoles .
In mentioning this subject to Mr. Joseph Sidebotham of Manchester ( an active botanist ) , he informed me that young frogs , and in fact frogs of all sizes , were to be seen in his cellar amongst decaying dahlia tubers .
The smallest of them were only about half the ordinary size of the young frog when newly developed from the tadpole .
He further stated that there was no water in the cellar , and no means of young frogs entering , except by first coming into the kitchen , a mode of entry , if not impossible , highly improbable .
Mr. Sidebotham never found any spawn .
It seems probable from the above , that frogs are occasionally born alive in situations where no water can be found for the spawn to be deposited in , and that toads are either reproduced in the same manner , or from the egg directly .
The latter mode seems most likely , owing to spawn having been found previously to the young toads .
Mr. Higginbottom tells me , the same remark on the birth of the Triton , without the stage of tadpole , has been imentioned to him .
These are the facts ; should the subject be deemed worthy of further investigation , I shall be glad to continue observations upon these reptiles during the present year , or to make any experiments that may be deemed advisable .

