On the Parallax of the fixed Stars .
By J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. M.A. Sec. R.S. Communicated January 19 , 1826 .
Read March 9 and 16 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 266 .
] The measurement of the distance between the two stars composing a double star , at opposite seasons of the year , has long ago been suggested as a means of detecting a difference of parallaxes between them , if any exist ; but in practice has not proved delicate enough for the purpose , owing to the difficulty with which measures of distance are still attended when minute fractions of a second are to be determined .
The author observes that it appears hitherto to have escaped notice that a difference of the parallaxes will affect not only their distance from each other , but also their angle of position , and that this latter effect is much more sensible and measurable for a given amount of parallax than the former ; and he accordingly proposes it as a means of determining the question as to the existence or non-existence of a sensible difference , in all stars favourably situated .
He first enters into an estimate of the least amount of such difference which this method is capable of detecting , with our present instruments and methods of observation , which , for two stars at 3 " distance from each other , he states to be one fortieth of a second , and in closer stars a still smaller fraction .
In selecting stars for examination , the most favourable position in which parallax most affects the angle of position is when the great circle passing through both stars , passes also through the pole of the ecliptic .
But to ascertain how far any particular star is or is not favourable to the application of the method , and the times of the year when it ought to be observed , it is necessary to make a calculation , the mathematical principles of which the author explains ; and includes , in proper formulae , which he then applies to the formation of a list of about 70 stars , as a specimen .
He concludes by observing , that by a certain mode of using the double image-position micrometer , first explained to him by Captain Kater , the application of this method ceases to be limited to close stars ; and that stars of any moderate distance , otherwise favourably situated , may be equally well subjected to examination with nearer ones ; and that thus the range of objects placed within our-power becomes unlimited .

