472 On the Induction of the Explosive Wave , \amp ; c. [ June 16 XXIX .
" On the Induction of the Explosive Wave and an Altered Gaseous Condition in an Explosive Gaseous Mixture by a Vibratory Movement .
" By Lewis T. Wright .
Communicated by Professor Odling , F.R.S. Received June 13 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to the conclusions of Berthelot and Vieille that the phenomenon of the explosive wave is quite distinct from that of ordinary combustion , each being marked by well-defined limits called by them the regime of detonation and combustion respectively .
The transition from the one to the other is accompanied by violent vibratory movements .
Mallard and Le Chatelier separate the combustion of an explosive mixture inflamed at the open end of a tube , closed at the other , into four different and succeeding phases\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Uniform propagation of flame ; ( 2 .
) A vibratory movement ; followed in some cases by ( 3 .
) The explosive wave of Berthelot and Vieille .
( 4 .
) Spontaneous extinction of flame .
The author has specially studied the connexion between the vibrating stage and the explosive wave with a certain mixture of coal gas and air ( in large glass tubes ) which sharply exhibits the various features of the four stages described by Mallard and Le Chatelier .
The points determined were these , that the detonating stage ( explosive wave ) is never initiated without preceding vibratory movements on the part of the flames .
That with the same mixture the vibrating period is of definite duration culminating in the explosive wave stage .
The necessary connexion between the two stages being proved , the author investigated the question whether the explosive wave condition is communicated layer by layer by the contact of the flame itself , or whether the whole column of unignited gas in the tube adjacent or distant , from the flame is " induced " by the vibrating flame into a more receptive condition which enables the chemical reaction between the molecules to proceed at a more rapid rate than usual .
The phenomena exhibited by the flame suggest this latter explanation , and the author by the application of a weak spark test has been enabled to prove that the whole column of gas , either adjacent or distant from the vibrating flame , is in an altered condition after being submitted to but a portion of the vibratory action which normally initiates the explosive wave .
1887 .
] On a Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas .
An electric spark of low tension not capable of igniting the uninduced explosive mixture invariably does so , after the vibrating has been set up .
It is suggested that the tremor sent through the unignited gas synchronised some of the molecular vibrations , so that the molecules capable of reacting perform their translatory movements in some measure together , and that when a focus of inflammation is present more reacting molecules come into the sphere of inflammation in a given time , and therefore the rate of inflammation is more rapid .
XXX .
" Note on Communication entitled 'Preliminary Note on a Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas ' ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , p. 146 ) .
" By W. F. R. Weldon , M.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received June 16 , 1887 .
In a paper , communicated to the Royal Society in March last , I described a series of Balanoglossus larvse , found by me in the Bahama Islands .
The series extended from a larva with one pair of gill-slits to a form resembling in many ways a normal Tornaria ; but the differences between this larva and the normal European form were so great as to induce me to believe that a process of degeneration was going on , and that the Tornaria-like creature was the oldest , not the youngest , of the series .
On seeing my paper , Professor Spengel , whose researches on Balanoglossus are well known , wrote to me , informing me that I was altogether mistaken in my interpretation of the larvae which I had found , and that my series belonged in fact to the normal order of development .
By the courtesy of Dr. Spengel I have been enabled to inspect his magnificent series of preparations , illustrating the whole life-history of Balanoglossus , and so to become convinced of the truth of his statement ; I now , therefore , take the earliest opportunity of withdrawing my previous statement , and desii*e to express my regret at having placed such an erroneous doctrine on record in the ' Proceedings ' of the Society .
I beg also to thank Dr. Spengel most sincerely for his kindness to me in this matter .

