An Account of some Books .
1 .
Prose de Signori Academici di Bologna ; in Bologna , 1672 in 4~ .
THis is a Complex of 15 .
Discourses , at several times made by several persons of the Illustrious Academy of Bologna , published under the Presidentship of the Noble Count Valerio Zani .
Though these dissertations be all ingenious and learned , each in their kind ; yet we shall here chiefly take notice of the last of them ( as most sutable to the design of these Tracts , ) composed by the Excellent Signor Montanari , concerning the admirable Changes and other Novelties observed in the Heavens .
Touching which subject the Author scruples not to affirm against the fond Maintainers of the Immutability and Incorruptibility of the Celestial Bodies , that there is not one Constellation , which serves not for an Instance of wonderful Novelties and frequent Changes , either by the Accession of New Stars not discovered before , or by the Extinction of some of those that had been observed formerly , or by increase of Light in some , or the diminution of it in others .
In the proving of this Assertion he is very particular ; yet so that he referrs the Reader to a large Treatise , he is now preparing under the Title of the INSTABILITIES of the FIRMAMENT ; not doubting but that he shall make it out to the Assertors of the Incorruptibility of these Visible Heavens , that even in the Stars anciently described there are observed such Changes , as would be sufficient to make Aristotle himself , if alive , change his opinion in this point .
Amongst the many particulars , in which this Author instanceth to make good his Affirmation , such as are the Constellations of Andromeda , Perseus , Ursa , Draco , and almost all the Northern ones , he notes , that , having of late years sound a considerable diversity in the Pleiades , and the numerous Stars there-about , from them as they were described by Galilei , he hath taken the pains of describing them anew by a Telescope of 20 palms , ( that is , about 131/ 2 foot , ) and exhibited them in this very Tract .
Nor Nor does he doubt , but these Changes in the Fixed Stars have been frequent in other times ; unregarded therefore because it seemed to men too absurd , that such glorious parts of Nature , as the Heavens and Stars are , should also be subject to such vicissitudes and alterations ; as if the manifold Wisdom and Power of the Great Creator and Supreme Governor of the Universe did not as well shine forth from the one , as the other .
If it be objected , that the Appearance and Dis-appearance of those Stars may be ascribed to their Elongation from , and Proximity to our Eyes : He answers , first , That of all the Celestial Motions there being observed none but what are Circular or at least approaching to Circular , if we should think so of the Fixed Stars that appear anew , then the Plane of that Circle being over the Plane of our Eye , the Upper part of that Circle must needs be remoter from the Lower part , for Stars of the second Magnitude , more than six times at least ; that is to say , that the Star in disappearing to our Eye must be removed at least six times farther off than when it appeared brightest : In which case we must needs see that Star move in an apparent straight line , or in an Arch of a great Circle of above 19 degrees ; which is most contrary to all Observation , by which it is notorious , that none of them do recede from their apparent first place .
Secondly , That not only in the lately mentioned Hypothesis of the Circle , but also supposing the Motion of such Stars through a straight line passing directly over our Eye , the said distances of those Stars , six times multiplied by us , would not be sufficient to salve the Phenomenon of being seen for a determinate time , and then to disappear ; but it would be requisite to suppose in a manner an infinite profundity of the Stellar Sphere : an Exorbitancy not to be admitted , where no other reason urges to do it than the salving of such Appearances .
All which he largely explaineth in his discourse ; concluding it with a Consideration , which imports , that , since Astronomers do now generally agree , that the Fixed Stars are , like the Sun , enobled with their own native Light , he sees no inconvenience in it to affirm , that they must also be subject to the incursions of such Spots , as the Sun is , which frequently augmenting about them do obscure , impair , or quite abscond their Light , &amp; that sometimes for a long , sometimes for a short time &amp; by turns , according as the matter , of which they are made up , gathers together in great or small quantity .
And therefore if such bodies upon a sudden meet about any Star , which for many ages , being free from such darkning matter , did shine very bright to us , what wonder , it should be obscured , or vanish altogether ?
Again , if any Star , which before had always about it such a quantity of Spots , as that for a long time it was counted to be ( for example ) of the fourth Magnitude , do unexpectedly unvail its face , it will then shine forth and challenge possibly the place of a Star of the second or first Magnitude : Again , if any Star , having been for many ages confined to a dark prison among these Spots , do break Prison and show its formerly restrained I ight ; what wonder , if there appear to us a New and never before seen Star ?
And if by a new collection of Spots it return to its former imprisonment ; what wonder , if we lose again the Splendor of it ?
Lastly , if one only part of the body of any Star lets out its internal lustre , and have a periodical motion about its own Center ; you 'll see it , no less than that of Bullialdus 's in the Whale , appear at certain determinate times , until a new mass of collected Spots , or a new Opening of the same do occasion an unexpected alteration .
These our Author proposes as Possible Causes of such Effects ; remitting those , that require Indubitable ones , to that of Lucan Pharsal .
l. 1 .
Quaerite quos agitat Mundilabor ; at mihi semper Tu , quaecunque moves tamcrebros Causa meatus , Ut Superi voluere , late -So much of this Exercitation , which we consider as most proper for our purpose .
As for the others , we shall but name some of them , viz. Of all sorts of Equestrian Games and Exercises ; of all sorts of Baths , ,and the various Entertainments therein , of the several Sects of Philosophers , and the Genuine Method of Philosophising , here esteemed to be the Experimental way ; of the Physical Causes of the reputed Sympathies and Antipathies of things ; of Musical Intervals , and of Music in general ; of Moral Philosophy , &amp;c. II .
Relation de divers Voyages Curieux , IV Party .
A Paris , 1672.in fol. THis Fourth part of the Curious Voyages of the worthy M.Thevenot is as yet but begun , there being only printed of it and transmitted to us two Discourses , the one containing a Portraiture of the Indians by D. Juan de Palafox , Bishop de la Puebla de los Angelos ; the other being a Relation of the Voyages of N. N.into the River della Plata and from thence over Land into Perou .
Concerning the former , the said Bishop having in NewSpain for several years exercised the Charge of Visitor and Vice-Roy as well as Bishop , and thereby acquired a perfect knowledge of the evils , which those Indians were made to suffer , he presented this discourse to Philip IV .
King of Spain , to acquaint him with the Innocence of those people , the ill treatment they lay under , and the remedies that might be administred for it .
In describing their nature and manners , he affirms , that there can hardly be any people more humble , more gentle and less interessed ; that never are idle , but always employed by the Strangers set over them ; that know no Envy ; that are very chaste except when overtaken with drink , which they are the more subject to , because they eat but little .
Though they are good natured and seemingly innocent , yet , saith be , they want no wit ; of which he alleges many Examples : Among others praises the sagecity , by which one of those Indians convinced a Spaniara to have stolen his Horse .
For , when that Indian saw that the Judge , what pains soever he took in examining the accused party , could find no proof of the Theft , he threw his cloak over the stolen Horses head , asking the Thief , of what Eye the Horse was blind ?
The thief , being pusled , and yet unwilling to appear mute , answered at random , of the right Eye .
Whereupon the Indian , uncovering the Horses head , said ; It is plain , theHorse is none of thine , for thou knowest not , that he is neither blind of the right nor of the left Eye .
Besides , he takes notice , that there are good Musicians amongst them , that manage their voice well ; that play on all sorts of Instruments , and sound a Trumpet very well ; that have Musick-books in their Chappels , and Masters of Music in all the Parochial Churches .
Further , he tells us , that they are very dextrous in cutting and polishing Pretious-stones , of which also and their virtues they are said by him to be very skilful ; as they also are of the virtues of Plants , whence they draw good and very successful remedies against many diseases and infirmities .
Again , he commends both their dexterity and courage , in that they cast themselves stark naked into the water , and getting upon the back of a Crocodile , take the opportunity , when the Beast opens his throat , to put a stick of half an Ell long betwixt his teeth , and so draw him with a cord , tied to the stick , a shore , &amp;c. The other Discourse is made by one Acarete a Biscayan , who having sailed A. 1657 .
from Cadiz to Buenes-ayres in the Southern America , about the Mouth of the River dela Plata , was sent from thence over Land into Perou , which is above 400 Leagues ; in which Voyage he made many not contemptible Observations .
He stayed some time atPotosi , where he saw the Silver-and-Gold-Mines , and assisting at the magnificent solennity celebrated for the Birth of the Prince of Spain , he was an Eye-witness , that the Streets , where the Procession passed , were paved all along with bars of Silver .
He describes very exactly the Countries of America , he passed through ; noting the Scituation of the places , the Animal nimals and Plants to be found there , the Temperature of the Air , the Manners of the Inhabitants , their number , their wealth , and the commodities they trade in .
He observes , that about the Upper part of the river Urugais , towards Parana and the Province of Paraguais , there are rich Gold-mines , discovered by Jesuites ; of which the Gold is much finer than that of Perou .
In the same Province grows an Herb called Herb of Paraguais , ordinarily given to the Mine-men afflicted by the Sulphureous and other damps of the Mines , who are recovered by drinking the decoction thereof , which makes them vomit up with great ease whatever troubles their stomach .
In the way from Bueno-ayres to Perou , about S. Jago del Estro , as he met with Tigers very fierce , so he found the Lyons very gentle .
About the same place he found those Animals called Guanacos , as big as Horses , with long necks , little heads , and short tails ; having in their stomach the Bezoar-stone .
Speaking of the Ostriches abounding in that Country , he relates a remarkable thing , which he saith he hath seen , viz. That , when that Bird is hatching her Eggs , and they are ready to hatch she breaks four of them and carries them to the four corners of the place she is hatching in : which Eggs thus broken coming to corrupt , there is in a little time bred out of them a great quantity of worms , with which the young ones , when hatched , are fed until they are able to go and seek for their food elsewhere , &amp;c.

