378 Note on a Curious Property of Neon .
By J. Norman Collie , F.R.S. ( Received April 8 , \#151 ; Read May 6 , 1909 .
) During some work with specially pure neon , belonging to Sir W. Ramsay , it was noticed that as the gas escaped at atmospheric pressure from a Topler pump , up through the mercury into a inverted test-tube , each bubble glowed with a fire-red glow .
Further experiments showed that if neon were sealed up in a glass tube with mercury and the tube shaken , the glow was very apparent .
This glowing of gases when shaken with mercury in a tube is well known , but neon shows this peculiarity , even at atmospheric pressures , in such a marked manner that it was thought worth while to further investigate the phenomenon .
A tube , for instance , filled with helium at 100 mm. pressure only gives a very faint bluish glow when shaken .
The amount of neon available , however , was only 5 c.c. , and further experiments would have been impossible without much larger quantities of the gas .
Fortunately M. Claude , of Paris , most kindly sent Sir W. Ramsay a large quantity of residual gases obtained during the liquefaction of air .
These consisted of a mixture of helium , neon , and nitrogen , the nitrogen being , present to the extent of about 50 per cent. , the remainder being the helium and neon .
From this mixture nearly pure neon can be obtained by fractional absorption of the gases by charcoal cooled in liquid air .
In every case , before filling the tubes with neon , they were thoroughly cleaned with sulphuric acid and chromic acid .
Some mercury was then put into the tubes and they were sealed on to the Topler pump and pumped out , the mercury in the tubes was then boiled and the pump washed out with some neon ; the tubes were again pumped out and finally pure neon admitted ; the pressures in the different tubes varied from 120 to 200 mm. , as it was found that the glow was as bright at these as at ordinary pressures , and a saving of neon was thus made .
At first it was expected that the glow would always be produced when the tube containing the mercury and neon was shaken , but this was found not to be so , as the following experiments will show :\#151 ; 1 .
A straight tube rounded at both ends was filled with neon ( probably containing a little helium ) at about 200 mm. pressure .
After shaking intermittently for two or three hours the glow became very feeble and remained so .
After two days , as there did not seem to be any improvement , the ends Note on a Curious Property of Neon .
379 of the tube were enclosed in lead foil and sparks from an induction coil were passed through it .
At once the brilliancy returned , but it was brighter at one end ( the positive terminal ) than at the other .
The same result can be obtained by merely holding the tube in the hand and moving it up and down on either of the terminals of the induction coil , whilst a spark is passing between the terminals .
Exactly the same result was obtained from several other tubes that had lost their original brilliant glow , and had remained in this condition , some of them for as much as three weeks .
In most cases , after the tube had been revivified in this manner , shaking had less effect on the brilliancy of the glow than when the tube had just been made .
2 .
Another tube , directly after it was made , that glowed brightly when shaken , on being brought near the terminals of the induction coil , at once lost most of its brilliancy ; moreover , further sparking from the coil did not improve it .
3 .
Another tube had a thick platinum wire sealed through one of its ends .
On shaking , the glow in this tube soon became feeble , and sparks from the induction coil were passed through it in various ways without improving it .
It remained in this state for some days ; finally , by merely rolling the mercury up and down , the full original brilliancy returned .
4 .
The inside of a tube was strongly etched with hydrofluoric acid .
This tube , after filling with neon , glowed just as brightly as the others .
5 .
A tube that was glowing brightly had its lower end immersed in liquid air .
The mercury was frozen solid , and the upper end was then heated to well above 400 ' C. Any mercury that might have condensed on the glass by this treatment would condense in the lower portion of the tube .
On allowing the tube to return to ordinary temperatures , and shaking , it was found that the end that had been heated glowed even more brilliantly than the one that had been cooled .
The tube in experiment ( 2 ) , that glowed oidy feebly , was then heated at one end .
The heated end was found to have regained the property of glowing brightly when the tube was shaken .
Many other tubes were made and obtained in different degrees of efficiency , by passing mild or violent discharges through them .
Some were produced that glowed at both ends but not in the middle , others would glow only in the middle , and some at only one end .
This abnormal state seems fairly permanent if no further electric charges are brought near the tubes .
If the neon has the slightest trace of moisture in it , no glow can be obtained ; minute traces of carbon monoxide also diminish the power of glowing in a marked manner , but spectroscopic traces of hydrogen do not 380 Dr. J. E. Reynolds .
Results of Cooling certain [ Apr. 19 , seem to have much effect .
There is no doubt , however , that the purer the neon the more brilliant is the glow , and at the same time it is more difficult to destroy the glow by shaking or electrifying the tube .
An experiment was made in a silica tube with the neon at atmospheric pressure ; the glow was very much brighter than in a glass tube under the same circumstances .
Note on the Results of Cooling certain Hydrated in Liquid Air .
By J. Emerson Reynolds , M.D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received April 19 , \#151 ; Read April 29 , 1909 .
) In the course of Sir James Dewar 's important low-temperature researches he made an interesting and significant observation with a salt which had been supplied to the Laboratory of the Royal Institution as " Lithium Platinocyanide."* When this nearly white crystallised substance was cooled in liquid air it assumed a distinct red colour , which did not persist at ordinary temperatures , the material resuming its usual appearance .
Sir James was so good as to give the writer a portion of the salt for examination , as it seemed desirable to seek for some explanation of the remarkable colour change observed .
On repeating the above-mentioned experiment several times with one and the same portion of Sir J. Dewar 's specimen it was subsequently found that the substance gradually lost the property of becoming red in liquid air , and assumed instead a marked yellow colour , which was retained at ordinary temperatures .
This additional phenomenon has also to be explained , as it is-presumably connected with that first observed .
Chemical examination of the Rdyal Institution specimen led to the conclusion that it was a mixture of the hydrated chloride , cyanide and sulphate of lithium with a platin-cyanogen salt of lithium , and that the proportion of the latter compound present was small .
The percentages of platinum and of lithium were directly determined in the R.I. specimen and found to be Platinum ... ... .
1'82 Lithium ... ... . .
9*56 * See p. 667 , ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution ' for 1895 .

