IV .
" On the Separation of Iodine , Bromine , and Chlorine , and the comparative degree of Affinity of these Elements for Silver ; with some Analyses of their Combinations with that Metal occurring in Chili .
" By FREDERIC FIELD , Esq. Communicated by Dr. HOFMANN , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1857 .
Although both bromide and iodide of silver are decomposed by the action of chlorine at an elevated temperature , yet chloride of silver is completely decomposed by bromide of potassium , and both the bromide and chloride of silver by iodide of potassium .
Even the action of hot strong hydrochloric acid has but little influence upon the iodide of silver ; many days of continuous boiling are necessary for its entire decomposition .
I believe that it has been the opinion of chemists that chlorine possesses an affinity for silver superior to all other elementary bodies , and we are told in Gmelin 's Handbook that all salts of silver , even the insoluble ones , are converted into chloride by solutions of metallic chlorides .
From the following experiments it appears to me that bromine has a greater affinity for silver than chlorine , and iodine a still greater affinity than bromine .
When a mixed solution of bromide of potassium and chloride of sodium is added gradually to a solution of nitrate of silver , not in excess , no trace of chloride of silver is precipitated , as long as any bromide remains in solution .
If to a similar solution , iodide and bromide of potassium and chloride of sodium be added , iodide of silver and nitrate of potassa are formed , the bromide of potassium and chloride of sodium remaining undecomposed .
When bromide of potassium is poured upon chloride of silver , an entire decomposition ensues , bromide of silver and chloride of potassium being produced .
When iodide of potassium is added to chloride of silver , iodide of silver and chloride of potassium are formed ; and when iodide of potassium is added to bromide of silver , there is a similar decomposition , the iodine replacing the bromine .
When chloride of silver in excess is agitated with a solution of iodide of potassium and warmed for some hours , no trace of iodine can be detected in the solution : when however chloride of sodium is poured upon iodide of silver , no decomposition occurs , neither is there any action upon bromide of silver with the same salt : and when bromide of potassium is added to iodide of silver , there is no alteration in the union of the elements .
From a number of experiments made in illustration of the preceding statements , I deemed it possible that the separation of chlorine , bromine and iodine could be accomplished by this reaction .
The method which I have devised is simply this : After weighing three equal portions of the salts to be analysed , they are placed in three flasks with ground-glass stoppers , and about an ounce of water is added to each ; nitrate of silver being then added , slightly in excess , to the three , the stoppers are replaced , and each flask agitated violently .
The precipitates subside in a few minutes , leaving the supernatant liquid perfectly clear .
They are then filtered through separate funnels , and washed with hot water .
No. 1 is dried and weighed .
No. 2 is digested in bromide of potassium , dried and weighed ; and No. 3 in iodide of potassium , dried and weighed .
To test the method , a mixture was made of 5 grains of iodide of potassium , 5 grains of bromide of potassium , and 5 grains of chloride of sodium .
The following is a comparison of the theoretical and experimental results : EXPERIMENT .
THEORY .
Iodine ... ... . .
3-69 ... ... . .
3-81 Bromine ... ... ... ... 351 ... ... ... .
3-34 Chlorine ... ... ... 2-92 ... ... ... .
3-02 I have availed myself of this method in analysing several silver ores containing chloride , bromide and iodide of silver found in Chili , the formulae of which I subjoin : Chloride of silver ... ... ... Ag Cl. Chlorobromide of silver ... ... 2Ag Cl , Ag Br .
Chlorobromide of silver ... ... 3Ag Cl , 2Ag Br .
Chlorobromide of silver ... ... Ag C1 , 3Ag Br .
Bromide of silver ... ... ... ... Ag Br .
Iodide of silver ... ... ... ... Ag I.

