86 Presents .
[ Feb. 3 , III .
" On Proterosaurus Speneri ( von Meyer ) .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography in King 's College , London .
Received February 3 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives an account of the scientific history of Proterosaurus , and states the interpretations of its structure given by Cuvier , von Meyer , Sir R. Owen , and Professor Huxley .
In Part II he describes the type specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .
In the skull characters are given of the cerebral cavity , the supra-occipital , parietal , frontal , pre-frontal , nasal , and premaxillary bones .
A restoration is made of the skull and the teeth are shown to be anchylosed to the jaw .
On the palate the vomer , palatine , and pterygoid bones are described and shown to have all been armed with minute teeth .
The pterygoid bone was strongly united to the quadrate bone .
The lower jaw and hyoid bones are also described .
In the vertebral column a description is given of the second to the seventh cervical vertebrse , of sixteen dorsal vertebrae , two sacral vertebrae , and twenty-three caudal vertebrae .
The femur , tibia and fibula and foot are also described .
The skin is found to have been defended with a bony armour .
In Part III comparison is made between the type and other specimens which have been referred to it , with the result that some are regarded as indicating different species while others indicate different genera .
In Part IV a comparison is made to show the resemblances of Proterosaurus with other reptiles , in the several regions of the skeleton ; with the result that the Proterosauria is regarded as a distinct division of the Reptilia , showing resemblances to many of the highly specialised orders and to some low types .
Presents , February 3 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Fifth Series .
Hos .
1-2 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1887 .
The University .
Christiania:\#151 ; University .
Om Humanisten og Satirikeren Johan Lauremberg .
8vo .
Christiania 1884 ; Antinoos , eine Kunst-archaologische Untersuchung .
8vo .
Christiania 1884 ; Lakis Kratere og Lavastromme .
4to .
Kristiania 1886 ; Norges Vaext-rige .
Bind I. 4to .
Christiania 1885 .
The University .

