XXII .
On the mechanism of the Spine .
By HENRY EARL , Esq. F. R. S. Surgeon to the Foundling , and Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Read April e5 , 1822 .
HAVIN G been lately engaged in examining the structure of the vertebrae in different animals , I have been particularly struck with the mechanism of the spine and spinal canal in birds , by which a most remarkable degree of motion is gained in the neck , without any injury or pressure on a part of such vital importance to the existence of animal life , as the spinal marrow ; .an extent of motion , so great indeed as completely to compensate for the deficiency of it in the dorsal and lumbar regions , as well as for the want of any prehensile power in the anterior extremities .
In attempting to explain the nature of this peculiar mechanism , which tends to throw considerable light on the physiology and pathology of the spine , I believe that I have not been preceded by any author .
The cervical vertebra in birds are very numerous , varying from nine to twenty-four , * They differ considerably from one another , according to their situation , in the form and direction of their articulating surfaces , and in the number and shape of the different processes , which afford extensive means of attachment to the muscles concerned in the different motions of the neck .
Unlike the vertebra in man and most of the mammalia , they are articulated together by complicated joints , which bear a close resemblance to the articulation of the olecranon with the humerus in the human subject , but differing in some respects ; the vertebrae in birds admitting of lateral motion as well as flexion and extension , whilst the elbow is strictly a hinge-like joint .
The varying position of these articular surfaces is greatly favoured by the interposition of a cartilage , which is curiously adapted to the surface of each bone , and is enclosed between reduplications of synovial membrane ; and thus each joint is double , consisting of two synovial cavities , and is analogous to the articulation of the lower jaw in man ; a circumstance , I believe , not mentioned either by CvVIER , BLUMENBACH , or MACARTNEY .
The canal of each vertebra is of very unequal calibre , the centre being narrowest .
It enlarges above and below , and at each joint is nearly three times the capacity that it is in the centre ; and thus the canal of each individual vertebra may not unaptly be compared to an hour-glass .
The canal is closed in front by the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebra , but behind it is very imperfect ; and in the skeleton there is a large lozenge-shaped opening , formed by the diverging inferior articular processes and the converging plates which unite to form the back of the canal .
This , in a recent state , is filled up by a membrane , and is protected by the highly elastic and powerful ligamentum nuchle .
This mechanism , besides allowing of the greatest possible " 77 freedom of motion , appears to be intended , at the same time , to guard against the possibility of any undue pressure on the spinal marrow .
This is very readily demonstrated by removing the ligamentum nucha : and membrane which closes the above mentioned opening .
The spinal marrow , enveloped in its membranes , will immediately come in view .
Its outer membrane is very vascular , and of a delicate structure , and is connected with the canal by a fine filamentous cellular substance ; it is larger than the inner membrane , with which it is but loosely connected .
When the spinal canal has been thus exposed , the individual vertebrae may be bent backward to a right angle , and laterally to an angle of 45 ?
without in the least compressing the marrow which occupies so small a space of the whole calibre of the canal at each articulation , as to be quite secured from any injury from this motion .
The design , in this structure , becomes even yet more obvious , on viewing the whole extent of the spinal cord .
It is nearly of the same size throughout , diminishing very gradually from above downwards , and completely occupies the narrow central part of the canal of each cervical vertebra , where no motion call afflct it .
The same may be observed in that part of the spine which corresponds to the dorsal and lumbar divisions , which in birds do not admit of motion ; for here we find no variation , either in the spinal canal or the marrow , except where the numerous branches are given off to form the great sciatic plexus , to supply the lower extremities , where it swells out into a bulbous shape , corresponding to the cavity in the bone .
Before quitting the subject of the spine in birds , it will be 278 right to mention one more peculiarity , apparently connected with the same mechanism .
Contrary to the usual course in other animals , the nerves that are given off from the cervical portion of the spinal marrow , pass obliquely upwards at a considerable angle , through an opening between the root of the inferior articulating process , and the body of the bone ; they then divide , and one branch descends through the opening in the lateral process , and the other branch is distributed to the surrounding muscles and integuments .
One principal object in comparative anatomy , or rather in comparative physiology , is to enable us , by examining particular structures , which are more developed in some animals , and in whom consequently the functions of such structures are more apparent , to judge of the probable uses of similar structures existing in a diminished proportion in other animals .
On investigating this subject , and examining the spines of several other animals , I have found a similar arrangement , varying only in degree , and that exactly in proportion to the extent of motion permitted between the vertebrae.* In the formation of the spine in man , it was requisite to combine two very opposite qualities .
The solidity and strength of a column were required to be united with the flexibility necessary to the performance of our diversified actions .
To attain these various ends , this beautiful structure is admirably adapted .
The broad horizontal planes afforded by the bodies of the vertebrae , the mechanical locking of the articular processes , and the powerful ligamentous bands which unite them , so connect the whole as to form one column , whilst the numerous articulations into which it is subdivided , which are separated by masses of highly elastic matter , at once interrupt the effect of concussion , and allow a slight extent of yielding of one vertebra upon the other .
The motions of the individual vertebra are obscure and limited , but the aggregate of the whole is considerable .
The extent of motion varies in each region ; in the back , every thing conspires to limit it ; but in the neck and loins it is much greater ; and in sawing open the spinal canal , we find a very similar provision to that which I have before described in birds , namely , an exact correspondence between the extent of motion permitted , and the size and form of the canal .
Thus , in the dorsal division , where motion hardly exists , its calibre is less ; it is of a rounded form , and it is more closely adapted to the size of its contents .
In the superior cervical vertebra , where the extent of motion is greater , the canal is of a triangular form , and is considerably larger in proportion to the spinal cord .
In the lumbar vertebra it is also triangular , and much more capacious than in the dorsal .
Obviously , with the same intention , the theca is very loosely connected with the bony canal , and a considerable space is left between it and the other membranes , to allow of a sufficient play of one surface on the other , so that at the greatest extent of natural curve , no perceptible stretching of the marrow can take place , which would be liable to continual pressure , if , closely enveloped in its %8o membranes , it completely filled the canal , in every motion of which it must , in that case , participate .
To afford additional support to the marrow which this loose state of membranes would leave very insecure , if enclosed in so delicate a tissue as the pia matter of the brain , this membrane , which may be considered as the proper tunic of the marrow , is greatly thickened , and partakes more of the characters of a fibrous membrane .
The membranous band , which has been termed the ligamentum denticulatum , appears to be superadded to restrain the lateral motions of the marrow , and to steady it in the canal .
By these membranous processes , the marrow may not , improperly , be said to be lashed to the sides of the spinal sheath , in which , from the disproportion between them , it would otherwise be liable to perpetual variation of position , and pressure from the bony parietes .
That a certain degree of freedom of motion between the membranes is essential to the due performance of the functions of the spinal marrow , is proved by the effect of accidents and disease .
It would be out of place here , to bring forward a detail of particular cases , but I may mention briefly , that I have ascertained , by dissection , that the most distressing train of nervous symptoms , and even complete paraplegia , may be produced by adhesions taking place between the membranes , and by effusion into the canal or theca .
In conclusion I may observe , that this view of the subject tends to throw considerable light on the pathology of the spine , and assists in explaining a circumstance which I have repeatedly noticed in diseases affecting the vertebrae , namely , that the symptoms of irritation and inflammation of the spinal marrow , are much more early manifested , and are generally far more serious in their consequences when the dorsal vertebrae are affected , than when either the cervical or lumbar are the seat of disease .
In the former case , the slightest congestion or effusion is often productive of serious symptoms , from the canal being smaller and more completely filled with the marrow and its membranes ; whilst , in the latter description of cases , from the greater capacity of the canal and looseness of the membranes , considerable effusion may exist , without , at first , producing any marked symptoms , more particularly in the lumbar region , where other circumstances concur in rendering the effect of pressure less sensibly felt ; to enter into a description of which , would be foreign to the object of this paper .
As it is difficult to convey any clear idea of complicated forms by words , I have subjoined a sketch of some cervical vertebrae in birds , with a description of the different parts .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXX .
Figure i. Represents an anterior view of a single cervical vertebra .
Fig. s. A posterior view of the same .
Fig. 3 .
A lateral view of the same .
Figo 4 .
A front view of two vertebrae articulated together .
Fig. 5 .
A back view of the same .
The letters of reference are the same in all the figures .
A. The body of the vertebra .
BB .
lateral processes .
C C. Styloid processes , with tubercles near their base , which restrain the motion of the vertebre in the anterior direction , 983 I'/ Z r 17 ?
/.R . ?
MThCC P. -X1 .
XZI 2.V.2 " 'C'-'( ' F ... .t .
f i ... B -~K~ , ?
C -M Fz .
2 .
i7..M BG B:.F B ... B. F.Ii 4 ' --H -K A. B.K EI Fr , F zig .
4.,.~~~~o LIIj iI iIIIiIi ----------------_ ?
---i. . ?
I--- , ?
_ ?
----- ?
----- ?
----- ?
-----I.I III II .
I II Ii:-1-i i ; h " , ; ------- ; -----I--lit ` i ' SaB i ? ? ?
?ir.------~~~~ -- ; ;- ?
----------- ?
--------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./ 'i ' nrzsri ?
c ?
cz'c ?
( .
i ?
C-..cr:ici~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ?
) , L~~ In some birds , at the upper part of the neck , a bony arch extends from one to the other , to preserve the blood vessels which pass under it from pressure .
This is the case in the heron , and other very voracious birds .
D. Lunated excavation for articulation with the superior vertebra .
E. Semi-lunar convexity , corresponding to the excavation above mentioned .
F F. Diverging inferior articular processes , with surfaces facing obliquely outward .
G G. Superior articular surfaces , facing obliquely inwards .
H. I. Spinal canal , imperfect in the skeleton , in consequence of the vacancy left between the diverging inferior articular processes and the superior converging plates , which unite to form the back of the canal K. L. Opening for the passage of the spinal nerves .
M. Foramen for the passage of the carotid artery and branches of the spinal nerves .
Fig. 6 .
A perpendicular section of two vertebra , showing the interarticular cartilages .
28 , George Street , IHanover Square , April 2 , X 822 .
283

