461 1888 .
] The Chemical Composition of Pearls .
about for some time by means of their cilia before they attach themselves to a suitable spot , and undergo their further development .
These planulse are necessarily swept away by strong currents to the further shores of a reef , and it has been shown experimentally by von Koch that they will not attach themselves in a strong current , or if attached , will loose their hold when a strong current is directed upon them .
Although coral colonies grow larger by budding , they originate in every case from planulse , and no great group of corals could grow in a place where the strong currents prevented planulse from attaching themselves.\#151 ; March 20 ] .
EXPLANATION OP PLATE .
Em .
1 represents a diagrammatic section through the surface soil of East Islet showing the alternate layers of sand and rock of which it is composed .
S^ale i inch to the foot .
Fig. 2 shows the way in which a current striking a sloping bank is deflected upwards over its surface until it joins the superficial part of the main current at the upper edge of the reef .
III .
" The Chemical Composition of Pearls .
" By George Harley , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Harald S. Harley .
Received February 28 , 1888 .
Although there are many qualitative analyses of pearls , from our being unable , in their voluminous literature , to find any evidence of a quantitative analysis of their ingredients having been recorded , we undertook the examination of several varieties , of which the following is an account:\#151 ; 1st .
As regards oyster pearls .
Of these three varieties were examined , British , Australian , and Ceylonese .
The qualitative analyses showed that they all had an identical composition , and that they consisted solely of water , organic matter , and calcium carbonate .
There was a total absence of magnesia and of all the other mineral ingredients of sea-water\#151 ; from which the inorganic part of pearls must of course be obtained .
Seeing that ordinary sea-water contains close upon ten and a half times more calcium sulphate than calcium carbonate , one might have expected that at least Some sulphates would have been found along with the carbonates , ' more especially if they are the mere fortuitous concretions some persons imagine them to be\#151 ; a view we cannot endorse , from the fact that by steeping pearls in a weak aqueous solution of nitric acid , we are able to completely remove from them all their mineral constituents without in any way altering their shape , and but very slightly changing their naked eye appearances , so long as they are 462 Dr. Gr .
Harley and Mr. H. S. Harley .
[ Mar. 22 , permitted to remain in the solution .
When taken out they rapidly dry and shrivel up .
We shall take occasion to point out in our next communication , which will be on the microscopic structure of pearls , that a decalcified crystalline pearl bears an intimate resemblance to a decalcified bone , in so far as it possesses a perfectly organised matrix of animal matter .
No phosphates whatever were found in any of the three before-named varieties of pearls.* The next point being to ascertain the exact proportions of the substances composing the pearls , and pure white pearls being expensive , from our having ascertained that all the three kinds we were operating upon had exactly the same chemical composition , instead of making separate quantitative analyses of them , we simply selected two pearls from each variety , of as nearly the same size and weight\#151 ; giving a total of 16 grains\#151 ; and analysed them collectively , the result obtained being\#151 ; * Carbonate of limef ... ... ... ... 91 ' 72 per cent. Organic matter ( animal ) ... .
5'94 " Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2'23 " Loss ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0T1 " 100-00 From this it is seen that notwithstanding that mother-of-pearl consists of precisely the same ingredients , their proportions are quite different from what they are in fine , pure white pearls ( we say fine pure white , because pearls vary greatly in purity , and those we analysed were good ones ) , which are infinitely denser , and consequently harder than the mother-of-pearl constituting the shells in which they are formed .
The analysis of mother-of-pearl given in Watts ' ' Dictionary of Chemistry ' is\#151 ; Carbonate of lime ... ... ... ... 66'00 per cent. Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 31-00 " Organic matter ... ... ... ... ... .
2"50 " thus showing that while mother-of-pearl contains less than half the quantity of organic matter pearls do , it at the same time possesses close upon fourteen times more water .
This fact appears to us all the more surprising as , not alone to the naked eye , but even under the * Phosphates are referred to as being present in pearls by Rudler in his article in the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica .
' f The carbonic acid was estimated by disengaging it with dilute sulphuric acid into a soda-lime tube , and calculating the increase in weight ( as described by Lunge and Hurter in ' The Alkali Maker 's Pocket-book ' ) .
The amount of the organic matter by noting the loss by weight after calcining\#151 ; slightly moistening the mass with a solution of ammonium carbonate .
1888 .
] The Chemical Composition of Pearls .
microscope , the structure of the mother-of-pearl of the shell and of pearls is almost identical .
[ One can scarcely imagine that the analyst could have possibly employed in his investigation a piece of shell while it was yet in a fresh and consequently moist state .
As regards the hardness of pearls , again , it may perhaps be as well for us to remark that good pearls have a much denser texture than the majority of persons appear to suppose , as may be gleaned from the following facts .
On one occasion being desirous to crush into powder a split-pea sized pearl , we folded it between two plies of note-paper , turned up the corner of the carpet , and placing it on the hard bare floor , stood upon it with all our weight .
Yet notwithstanding that we weigh over 12 stone , we failed to make any impression whatever upon the pearl , and even stamping upon it with the heel of our boot did not suffice so much as to fracture it .
It was accordingly given to the servant to break with a hammer , and on his return he informed us that on attempting to break it with the hammer against the pantry table , all he succeeded in doing was to make the pearl pierce through the paper and sink into the wooden table , just as if it had been the top part of an iron nail , and that it was not until he had given it a hard blow with the hammer against the bottom of a flat-iron that he succeeded in breaking it .
In addition to the foregoing we may likewise take occasion to mention that shell-fish pearls are not nearly so easily dissolved in strong vinegar as the interesting tale of Cleopatra having taken a large pearl from her ear , and , after having dissolved it in vinegar , drunk it to the health of her lover Antony , would lead one to believe .
For during our experiments we have learned that not only does it take many days to dissolve out the mineral constituents of a large pearl in cold vinegar , but that it even requires several hours to extract the mineral matter , by boiling vinegar , from a pearl not bigger than a garden pea .
While in neither case , moreover , can the pearl be thus made to disappear , as from the fact of the organic matrix of a pearl being totally insoluble in vinegar , even after every particle of its earthy substance has been removed , it still remains of the same shape , bulk , and almost identical appearance as before .
Hence we fear that if the Cleopatra legend is to be believed at all , it requires considerable modifications ere it can be brought into harmony with scientific truth .
There is , , indeed , only one way in which a large pearl , such as the one Cleopatra is said to have employed , could be dissolved in vinegar at a supper-table , and that is by having it completely pulverized by a hard hammer and a strong arm before applying the vinegar to it .
For once the mineral constituents of a pearl have been reduced to the state of an impalpable powder , they not only readily dissolve , but The Chemical Composition of Pearls .
[ Mar. 22 , effervesce like a seidlitz powder\#151 ; though much less strongly\#151 ; when brought into contact with strong vinegar , and thus on their being diluted with water may be transformed into what might be called a cooling lover 's potion , while from the organic matter having at the same time as the mineral constituents been minutely subdivided , its presence would scarcely be recognisable in the solution.]* 2nd .
Composition of cocoa-nut pearls .
Qualitative analyses of pearls found in cocoa-nuts have been published by both Dr. J. Bacon and Dr. Kimminis.f But their analyses differ somewhat , for while Bacon found carbonate of lime and an organic substance akin to albumen , Kimminis met with nothing whatever in them except pure carbonate of lime .
We subjected a portion of a garden pea sized cocoa-nut pearl , weighing 14 grains ( kindly given to us by Messrs. Streeter ) to analysis , and found that , like shell-fish pearls it consisted of carbonate of lime , organic matter ( animal ) , and water .
The pearl which we examined was sent to Messrs. Streeter by their agent at Singapore ( the same place from whence Bacon obtained his specimen ) , and as we stated last year ( on June the 8th ) , when we exhibited at the soiree of the Royal Society both drawings and microscopic sections of it , we are exceedingly sceptical of the pearl we examined being in reality the product of a cocoa-nut , for the following reasons .
It had all the external appearances of the pearls found in the large clams ( Tridacna gigas ) of the Southern Ocean , being perfectly globular , with a smooth , glistening , dull white surface , and resembling them exactly in microscopic structure .
Besides which in chemical composition it bore no similarity to cocoa-nut milk , to which it is supposed to be related .
For cocoa-nut milk is said to contain both the phosphate and the malate , but not the carbonate of lime .
That there are pearls found in cocoa-nuts we do not presume to deny ; all we mean to say is that we are doubtful if the specimen we examined had such an origin .
J 3rd .
As regards mammalian pearls .
These so-called pearls have been met with in human beings and in * Added March 27th , 1888 .
f See ' Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History , ' vol. 7 , 1861 , p. 290 ; vol. 8 , 1862 , p. 173 ; The Tropical Agriculturist , ' April , 1887 ; and * Nature , ' 16th June , 1887 ( Dr. Hickson and Mr. Thiselton Dyer ) .
I Since this paper was in type I have kindly had my attention drawn by Dr. Hickson to a letter from J. Q- .
K. Riedel , of Utrecht , in ' Nature , ' 15th September , 1887 , in which he states that in 1886 , while in North Celebes , he found a pearl " in the endosperm of the seed of the cocoa-nut .
" And that he has in his possession " two melati pearls ( Jasminiumsambac ) ; one tjampaka pearl ( , found in the flowers , according to the natives .
One of the cocoa-nut pearls has a pear-shaped form , the length being 28 mm. The common name amongst the natives for this kind of pearl is mustika."\#151 ; Q- .
H. , 1st March , 1888 .
1888 .
] On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
oxen .
The first person who kindly called our attention to those of the ox was the late Professor Pannum , of Copenhagen , who in 1874 presented us with some specimens he had found in the gall-bladder of a Danish ox .
In so far as naked eye appearances are concerned , a good specimen of the variety of pearl now spoken of is quite undistinguishable from a fine specimen of oriental oyster pearl , from its not only being globular in shape , and of a pure white colour , but from its also possessing the iridescent sheen so characteristic of oriental oyster pearls of fine quality .
In chemical composition , however , mammalian pearls bear no similarity whatever to pearls found in shell-fish , for they are composed of an organic instead of an inorganic material , namely cholesterin .
In minute structure again , they bear a marked resemblance to the crystalline variety of shell-fish pearls .
The quantitative analysis of human pearls yielded in 100 parts\#151 ; Water ... ... ... ... ... ... 2*05 Solids ... ... ... ... ... .
97-95 The solids consisted of\#151 ; Cholesterin ... ... ... ... 98*63 Animal matter ... ... ... ... 1*37 From this it is seen that human pearls are in reality nothing more nor less than exceedingly pure cholesterin biliary concretions .
This note on the chemical composition of pearls is intended as a prelude to a paper we purpose shortly laying before the Society on the microscopic structure of the different varieties of pearls we had the honour of exhibiting sections of with the lime-light , as well as microscopic drawings , at the soiree , on the 8th June , 1887 , and of which a detailed report was given in the 17th No. of the ' Cheltenham Ladies ' College Magazine , ' pp. 37\#151 ; 42 , by J. F. Muspratt .
IV .
" On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
" By W. K. PARKER , F.R.S. Beceived March 8 , 1888 .
A few years ago I noticed a remarkable fact in the development of the Green Turtle ( Chelone viridis ) , namely , that whilst thirteen myotomes are developed in the cervical region , the intercalary vertebral segments found afterwards are only More recently , whilst working out the development of the vertebrae in various types of Birds , it struck me that we have in these high forms creatures in which the vertebral chain has been greatly * See " Challenger " Reports , Zoology , vol. 5 , Plate 1 , fig. 3 , pp. 48 .
and 50 .

