1903 .
] ImiminisingEffects of Contents of Typhoid Bacillus .
351 " Upon the Immunising Effects of the Intracellular Contents of the Typhoid Bacillus as obtained by the Disintegration of the Organism at the Temperature of Liquid Air .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. Communicated by Lord Lister , O.M. , F.B.S. Received February 19 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1903 .
In a previous communication* it was shown that it was possible to disintegrate mechanically the typhoid bacillus at the temperature \#166 ; of liquid air , and to obtain the cell-juices of the organism .
The typhoid cell-juices obtained by this method on inoculation into animals proved toxic or fatal .
It was , therefore , concluded that the typhoid bacillus contained within itself an intracellular toxin .
It remained to test the typhoid cell-juices for immuninising and other properties .
The preliminary experiments in this direction , which form the subject of the present note , were made upon the monkey .
The monkey was selected as an animal most likely to furnish data of possible application to man .
For this purpose the typhoid cell-juice was administered subcutaneously to the monkey .
The injections did not produce any general symptoms beyond a transient rise in temperature , whilst the material was quickly absorbed after each injection without any traceable local effect .
In this manner doses of 05 to 1 e.c. of the material were injected at intervals .
An immediate result was the agglutination of the typhoid bacillus by the serum of the blood of the treated monkeys , whereas no such effect was produced by the serum of monkeys which had not been treated .
This furnished useful evidence that the animals were under the influence of cell-juices derived from the typhoid organism .
The injections were repeated at intervals of three to four days , and after a lapse of four to six weeks the animals were bled .
The serum obtained was then tested for immunising properties .
The test objects were ( 1 ) a virulent culture of the typhoid bacillus , and ( 2 ) the intracellular toxic juice of the same organism .
A varying amount of the virulent bacilli and of their toxic cell-juice was mixed with a varying quantity of the serum .
The respective mixtures were then injected into the peritoneal cavity of the guinea-pig .
The broth cultures of the typhoid organism used in the experiments were per se lethal in doses of 0T c.c. in five to ten hours .
The typhoid cell-juices were fatal in doses of 0'2 and 0T c.c. in three to five hours , and in doses of O'05 c.c. in about twelve hours .
The serum was thus tested for ( 1 ) specific antibacterial and ( 2 ) specific antitoxic properties .
The experiments showed that the serum of the monkey , after injections of the typhoid cell-juices , possessed antibacterial and antitoxic * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' supra , p. 76 .
352 Immunising Effects of Contents of Typhoid Bacillus .
[ Feb. 19 , properties , inasmuch as the serum protected the experimental animals against the bacilli , and also against an intracellular toxin obtained from them .
A simultaneous injection of ( 1 ) serum with the bacilli , and ( 2 ) serum with the toxic cell-juice produced no lethal or toxic effects .
The control animals , on the other hand , invariably succumbed .
It was further investigated whether the serum possessed preventive and curative properties .
The serum from treated monkeys was injected into guinea-pigs , one injection being made in each instance , and the same animals received at an interval of 12 to 24 hours lethal doses of the typhoid bacillus and of its toxic intracellular juice respectively .
The treated animals survived the test , whilst the control animals-succumbed .
It was therefore concluded that the serum had protective properties .
A third series of guinea-pigs received lethal doses of the typhoid bacillus and of its toxic cell-juice respectively .
The serum was then injected at various intervals into individual animals .
It was found that the lives of the animals could be saved by one injection of the serum from a fatal infection or intoxication , even when half of the lethal period had elapsed in each instance .
The serum , therefore , possessed curative properties .
In view of the above results it appeared desirable to test the effect of the typhoid cell-juices upon animals larger than the monkey , in order that a greater amount of serum might be obtained conveniently and tested quantitatively as regards antibacterial and antitoxic properties .
These*experiments are at present in progress , and the results will be communicated in due course .
From the experiments made upon the monkey it would appear:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That by the injection of the intracellular juices of the typhoid organism into the monkey it is possible to obtain a serum with both antibacterial and antitoxic properties , ( 2 .
) That such a serum possesses curative and preventive properties as regards the typhoid bacillus and an intracellular toxin present in the same organism .
It is believed that this research has afforded for the first time proof that , in the case of one species of pathogenic bacterium , the intracellular juices of the organism , when injected into a suitable animal , give rise to the production of a serum which is both bactericidal to the organism itself and antitoxic as regards a toxin contained in its substance .
How far such properties of the cell-juice are shared by other pathogenic microbes must be the subject of further inquiry .
Experiments have been undertaken , with the aid of the cold-grinding methods referred to , with reference to other cells and organisms at the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine , where the above investigation has been conducted .

