New Experiments on some of the Combinations of Phosphorus .
By Sir H. Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read April 9 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 316 .
] Since the author 's former communication upon the above subject to the Royal Society , various researches have been brought forward , differing in their results from his own as well as from each other .
Sir Humphry concluded that the phosphoric acid contained about three fifths its weight of oxygen , or twice that contained in the phosphorous acid .
Berzelius considers the phosphoric acid as composed of 100 phosphorus + 128-17 oxygen ; and Dulong , of 100 phosphorus + 124-5 oxygen : and both these chemists consider the oxygen in the phosphorous acid to be to that in the phosphoric as 3 to 5 .
After showing that the only possible source of error in his former experiments was the smallness of the quantity of the phosphorus burned , Sir Humphry describes various modes of effectually carrying on the combustion upon a larger scale , and gives the preference to that in which the vapour of phosphorus , passing from the orifice of a small tube , is made to burn in a retort filled with pure oxygen .
The mean result of several experiments carefully conducted upon this plan , gave the composition of phosphoric acid at 100 phosphorus + 134-5 oxygen .
The author having shown the insufficiency of Dulong 's method for ascertaining the composition of phosphoric acid and of the chlorides of phosphorus , proceeds to detail his researches upon the latter compounds , and upon the constitution of phosphorous acid .
The result of several experiments indicated the composition of perchloride of phosphorus to be 1 00 of phosphorus +6 of chlorine ; and showed that phosphorous acid contained half the quantity of oxygen existing in the phosphoric acid , and the liquid chloride half the quantity of chlorine contained in the solid perchloride .
These experiments sufficiently agree with each other to afford the means of determining the equivalent number of phosphorus .
Thus , if phosphoric acid be supposed to consist of two proportions of oxygen and one of phosphorus , the number representing the proportion in which phosphorus combines will be 22-3 .
If the absorption of chlorine in forming phosphorane be made the datum , the number will be 22 2 .
If the quantity of horn silver formed from the liquid chloride be assumed as the datum , the number will then be 23-5 .
The mean of all is 22*6 , or the double 45*2 , from which , if we take away the decimal , we obtain 45 .
The author 's experiments upon phosphate of potash also agree with this number .
The next subject discussed in this paper is the hypophosphorous acid of M. Dulong .
Although Sir Humphry has satisfied himself of the existence of this acid , he is not disposed to regard the methods of analysis adopted by its discoverer as satisfactory .
When hypophosphite of baryta is decomposed by heat , it is converted into phosphate of baryta and hydrophosphoric gas ; and knowing the quantity of acid in the former , and of phosphorus in the latter , it is easy in this way to learn the compdsition of the hydrophosphorous acid .
The results of Sir Humphry 's experiments , however , lead to the conclusions adopted by Dulong ; namely , that the quantity of oxygen in the hydrophosphorous acid is half that which is contained in the phosphorous acid .
M. Dulong has suggested that the acid described by the author as a mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids , is a peculiar chemical compound , and proposes to call it phosphatic acid ; but as it has no crystalline form , nor any marked characters ; as it is not of uniform composition ; and as phosphorous and phosphoric acids mixed , produce a substance of the same kind , -Sir Humphry does not admit of this conclusion .
The , author has adopt ( throughout the calculations in this paper the supposition that the hydrogen in water is as 2 to 15 to the oxygen ; and consequently , he says , has taken the number 15 to represent the latter element .
If the hypophosphorous acid be regarded as a simple compound of oxygen and phosphorus , it will consist of 45 phosphorus + 15 oxygen ; phosphorous acid of 45 phosphorus + 30 oxygen ; phosphoric acid of 45 phosphorus + 60 oxygen .
Sir Humphry concludes this paper with some incidental observations relating to the compounds of phosphorus .

