power of my eyes for horizontal and for vertical rays , and to determine whether they possess a power of adjustment for different distances .
" By T. WHARTON JONES , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Ophthalmic Surgery in University College , Lonidon , &amp;c. Received March 8 , 1860 .
Besides the well-known differences of sight in respect to farness and nearness , there are differences in respect to the power of the eyes of different persons to bring the rays of light to one exact focus .
From observations and experiments in which I have for some time been engaged , I have been led to suspect that astigmatism or incapacity of the eye to collect all the rays of light which enter it to one exact focus , is , if not the rtile of sight , at least of very common occurrence .
I do not here refer to the cases in which astigmatism is of so exaggerated a character as to be a positive defect of sight .
It would be of great importance , both in a scientific and practical point of view , to possess some accurate data as to the frequency of the occurrence of astigmatism ; but such can be obtained only by a number of different persons-qualified observers-contributing each an analysis of his own sight .
I have thought , therefore , that by bringing under the notice of the Royal Society an analysis of my own sight , some of the Fellows and others accustomed to exact observations might , perhaps , be induced to make similar contributions .
The adjustment of the eyes for different distances being intimately connected with the question of stigmatism or astig nati8m , I have included it in my analysis .
If I view a vertical and horizontal line , both equally strong and black , I see them with medium distinctness at the distance of about 10 inches .
At the distance of about 8-1 inches , I see the vertical line with greater distinctness / and better definition the / greatest distinctness and best definition my eyes are ca* Continued from page 374 .
pable of ; but the horizontal line I see indistinctly-with much less distinctness than that with which I see any part of the figure at the distance of 10 inches .
At the distance of 12 inches , I see the horizontal line with the greatest distinctness and best definition my eyes are capable of ; but the vertical line I see indistinctly-with much less distinctness than that with which I see any part of the figure at the distance of 10 inches .
It thus appears that my eyes collect to a focus on the retina the rays which diverge horizontally at the distance of 8 inches ; and the rays which diverge vertically at the distance of 12 inches .
Whilst seeing the vertical line with perfect distinctness and definition at the distanice of 81 inches , I cannot alter the adjustment of the eye so as to see the horizontal line more distinctly and the vertical one less distinctly ; and vice versed , whilst seeing the horizontal line perfectly defined at the distance of 12 inches , I cannot alter the adjustment of the eye so as to see the vertical line more distinctly and the horizontal one less .
In short , I find that I have no power of altering the adjustment of my eyes .
I see vertical lines with perfect distinctness and definition only at the distance of 8k inches , and horizontal lines with perfect distinctness and definition only at the distance of 12 inches , and both vertical and horizontal lines simultaneously with medium distinctness only at the distance of 10 inches .
At the distance of about 7 inches I see the vertical line with medium distinctness , but the horizontal line very indistinctly .
At the distance of about 14 inches I see the horizontal line with medium distinctness , but the vertical line very indistinctly .
At a nearer distance than 7 inches I see both lines indistinctly , but the vertical less so than the horizontal .
At a further distance than 14 inches , on the other hand , I see both lines indistinctly , but the horizontal less so than the vertical .
If now I view two oblique lines , both of which are equally strong and black , I see both legs with medium distinctness at the distance of 10 inches .
At the distance of about 82 inches I see the two oblique lines equally well , but not so distinctly as at the distance of 10 inches .
At the distance of 12 inches I see the two oblique lines with miuch about the same distinctness as that with which I see them at the distance of 8inches .
It thus appears that I cannot see either of the oblique lines with perfect distinctness and definition at any distance ; but that I can see them both simultaneously distinctly enough at any distance from 81 inches to 12 .
At a nearer distance than 81 inches , or a further distance than 12 inches , the distinctness diminishes , and that equally for the two lines .
I cannot by any adjustment of my eyes vary the distinctness with which I see the oblique lines at a given distance .
The preceding analysis of my sight shows that my eyes are not mnonostigmatic , that is , are not capable of collecting all the rays of light which enter them to one exact focus .
It shows , on the contrary , that my eyes are distigmatic , that is , they have each two distinct foci to which they bring the rays , viz. one focus for horizontal rays , and one for vertical rays .
The preceding analysis also shows that my eyes do not possess any intrinsic power of adjustment whereby they cani bring to foci rays diverging from a nearer or further distance than the two distances above specified for horizontal and for vertical rays .
It is true that I can see the different objects in a room distinctly enough without the aid of glasses , and that in the street or open country I can see objects distinctly enough for all practical purposes with the aid of concave glasses Nos. 2 and 3 , but , critically speaking , the definition is far from being exact .
Directing my eye to an object 2 or 3 feet from me , I see it distinctly enough whilst an object in the same field of view at the distance of 10 or 12 feet is at the same moment seen very indistinctly .
If now , I direct my eye to the object at the distance of 10 or 12 feet , I see it distinctly enough , but the object at the distance of 2 or 3 feet now appears very indistinct .
This is commonly considered aln evidence of adjustment of the eye to the two different distances .
There is , however , no real intrinisic adjustment in the case .
I see distinctly enough , either the nearer or the more distant object , merely because by directing my eye to it , its image falls on the central and most sensitive part of the retina , whilst the image of the other object falls on the circumferential and least sensitive part of the retina .
It is to be observed that at neither the nearer nor the further distance , do I see the object exactly defined on directing my eye to it .
On directing my eye to the further object , I see it , of course , less defined than I do the nearer object when I direct my eye to it ; but the difference is not at a glance very striking .
This experiment must not be confounded with another adduced by the late Professor Muller as a proof of the existence of an adjusting power in the eye .
The experiment I refer to is as follows : If we regard with one eye only ( the other being closed ) the ends of two pins placed one before the other at different distances in the line of the axis of the eye , one will be seen distinctly when the other appears indistinct , and vice versed .
Both images lie in the axis of the eye , one over the other ; and yet it depends on a voluntary effort , the exertion of which can be felt in the eye , whether the first or the second pin shall be seen distinctly .
" The two images of the pins , " says Muiller , " fall upon the same point of the retina ; one lies over the other , and yet I see the nearer through the cloud-like image formed by the rays from the other more distant pin , and vice ver8d .
" If any person is able to see the phenomena here described , he is undoubtedly endowed with an adjusting power in his eye .
I have never succeeded in seeing the phenomena myself .
In viewing objects at different distances , the sight is no doubt aided by the movements of the eyebrows , eyelids , eyeballs , and pupils ; but in this we have no example of adjustment properly so called , viz , intrinsic adjustment .
That the focal power of my eye may become slowly altered , for instance by prolonged examination of near and minute objects , and again slowly return to its former state , I am satisfied ; but this , again , is no example of adjustment properly so called .
P.S. It would oblige me very much , if any one , into whose hands this paper may happen to fall , and who may take the trouble to analyse his sight in the manner herein described , would communicate to me the results of his observation on the following points : 1 .
The distance at which the vertical line is seen with the greatest distinctness and best definition .
2 .
The distance at which the horizontal line is seen with the greatest distinctness and best definition.-Or , 3 .
If there be no difference in the distance at which the vertical and horizontal lines are seen with the greatest distinctness and best definition.-And , lastly , 4 .
Whether or not the observer can satisfy himself that he has the power of adjusting the eye , so as to be able to see the lines with perfect distinctness and definition at any other than one distance .
N.B. If spectacles are worn , mention the kind of glasses-whether convex or concave-and their power .
Note also if there be any difference in the sight of the two eyes .

