348 Solar Spectrum .
Secondary Batteries .
[ May 21 , These spicules belong to numerous species .
All four orders of siliceous sponges are represented , but whilst the Monactinellid and Hexactinellid sponges form but a small proportion , the Tetracti-nellid and Lithistid sponges , more particularly those of the Mega-morina family , are extremely abundant .
III .
" The Solar Spectrum from X.7150 to \10,000 .
" By Capt. Abney , RE .
, F.RS .
Received May 6 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the method employed in taking the photographs of the solar spectrum , from which the map accompanying it was made , and indicates the degree of accuracy which has been obtained .
IV .
" On Charging Secondary Batteries .
" By William Henry Preeoe , F.R.S. Keceived May 6 , 1885 .
1 .
I have for the past twelve months been experimenting with secondary batteries with a view of getting an efficient , uniform , and constant source of currents for electric lighting my house , and I have succeeded beyond my expectations .
Some new facts have developed themselves during my ' experience , which I have thought of sufficient importance to bring before the Society .
2 .
The cells are of the Plants type , manufactured by the Elwell Parker Company of Wolverhampton .
Fourteen plates of plain sheet-lead 17 " X 11 " are suspended in well insulated wood boxes filled with diluted sulphuric acid in the proportion of about 1 to 10 .
These plates are grouped in two groups of seven , each group being soldered to a lead strip , forming alternately the positive and negative poles of the cell .
The plates of the respective poles are prevented from touching each other by ebonite grids or separators.* Each plate offers a surface of 1'3 square feet , so that the total surface of lead of each group opposed to each other is 9T square feet ; that is , 9T square feet of peroxidised lead is opposed to 9T square feet of spongy lead .
I use twenty-four such cells .
3 .
My charging current varies from 3 to 3^ amperes per square foot , while the current of discharge used in lighting my house varies from 1 to 1^ ampere per square foot .
The total weight of each cell is * These ebonite grids were introduced by Mr. Charles Moseley , and have effectually removed one incessant source of trouble in these cells , viz. , short-circuiting through the buckling of the plates .
1885.1 On Charging Secondary Batteries .
120 lbs. The plates are prepared by the Parker-Plante process before insertion in the cell , those forming the positive pole being well peroxidised , while those forming the negative pole are well coated with spongy lead.* They are thns , when put together , prepared at once to be charged .
If they are not at once charged , local action sets in , and lead sulphate is injuriously formed .
' 4 .
I have cut away a small portion of the centre of the central plate sof each cell to admit a hydrometer having a scale graduated from \gt ; 1'050 to 1150 .
The changes of the density of the liquid and of the colour of the plates give the fullest and clearest indications of the behaviour of the cell .
The condition of the surface of the peroxidised plate as felt by the finger is also good evidence of its condition , tf a plate is yellowish-brown and rough , it probably makes bad contact with the lead terminal ; if black and hard , it wants the density of current regulated ; if plum-coloured and greasy to the touch , it is in good order , and working well .
5 .
At the present time I am charging my battery twice a week , putting in at each charge about 120 ampere-hours .
The battery is charged in two sections .
During each charge observations are made ISO .
V. A. I *14 40 ---1 Greenwich Mean Time .
__CEMF .
__Current .
Specific Gravity .
IS Cells .
* The Parker-Plante process consists in immersing for a few hours the lead plates in a solution of nitric and sulphuric acids in these proportions\#151 ; Nitric acid ... ... ... . .
1 Sulphuric acid ... ... .
2 Water ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 before fixing in the cells .
This not only chemically cleans the lead surfaces , but it favours the formation of sulphate of lead in such a way as to be readily converted into lead peroxide and spongy lead on the passage of a strong current through the cells .
The formation of the cells is thus greatly expedited .
350 Mr. W. H. Preece .
[ May 21 I every hour , and sometimes every half-hour , ( 1 ) of the strength of current flowing through ; ( 2 ) of the electromotive force ; and ( 3 ) 0f the density of the liquid of one or more of the cells .
The relation of these three quantities tells me the condition of the charge .
The accompanying diagrams are typical cases .
SG .
V\amp ; A. _____Current .
Cells . .
Specific Gravity .
1885 .
] On Charging Secondary Batteries .
1-124 50 ---X----- M22 40 !
1*120 30 1*118 20 1*116 10 1*114 0 Greenwich Mean Time .
___EMF .
___Current .
15 Cells .
.-.-Specific Gravity .
Take No. 4 , which is the diagram of this morning 's ( April 28 ) charge of 15 cells .
The following are the particulars:\#151 ; E. C. D. 9.0 A.M. 377 32*24 1*115 10.0 " 40*2 32*24 1*119 11.0 " 42-5 31*50 1*121 12.0 noon 42-5 30*74 1*123 1.0 P.M. 42*5 29*95 1*124 2.0 " 42-5 29*95 1*124 6 .
It is evident that after four hours ' continuous charging the battery was full , for the density , the electromotive force , and the strength of current became constant .
The same scale of ordinates is used for volts and amperes .
When each magnitude reaches its constant hubbies of gas are freely given forth , and energy is being wasted .
The variation of the electromotive force and current strength is clearly due to the counter-electromotive force of the cells , which becomes a maximum only when the plates are fully formed .
The counter-electromotive force partakes of the character of a higher resistance opposing the charging current , and increasing the proportion of the current through the shunt of the dynamo .
Hence the changes of electromotive force are more marked than those of the current .
Indeed , the changes in the electromotive force , as given by the voltmeter , are sufficient alone to indicate the progress and completion of the charge .
They are more reliable than the evolution of gas .
My dynamo is a shunt-wound Gramme , my voltmeter is Cardew 's , 352 Mr. W. H. Preece . .
[ May 21 .
a most reliable , simple , and valuable instrument , and my current meter a Siemens ' electrodynamometer .
7 .
I was at first mucb troubled with electrical leakage .
The current escaped over the edges of the box through creeping by capil .
lary action , and the formation of moisture from the spray of the solution when bubbles of gas arose in the liquid and burst on the surface .
This was quite cured by standing each box on three white porcelain supports of the form shown in the following figure , the cups being half filled with resin oil on Messrs. Johnson and Phillips ' plan .
It is now quite impossible to measure the leakage except with a delicate galvanometer , and the insulation may be said to be practically perfect .
8 .
The E.M.P. of the battery at its terminals:\#151 ; When charging ... ... ... ... . .
2'25 per cell .
When idle ... ... ... ... ... .
2-05 When discharging ... ... ... .
1'90 , , The internal resistance* is , per cell:\#151 ; When charging ... ... ... .
'0060 " When discharging ... ... ... . .
'0017 " 9 .
But the latter varies very markedly with the strength of current of discharge .
This is shown by the following experiment made with 23 cells of a smaller type than those described above , which are used in the Post Office .
Current of discharge in amperes .
4'39 7'25 15*84 25'07 Internal resistance in ohms .
0'7608 0-4607 0-2816 0-1969 * The term " internal resistance " means the effect of counter-electromotive force as well as of resistance to conduction .
1385.J On Charging Secondary Batteries .
353 10 .
Thinking that this remarkable diminution of internal resistance might be due to the evolution of heat , I measured the temperature with a delicate thermometer .
Normal temperature of cell 12| ' C. Current of discharge:\#151 ; 5 amperes ... .
No alteration of temperature perceived .
10 , , ... .
An exceedingly slight change .
16 " ... .
About 12f ' .
20 " ... .
Barely 13 ' .
The current in each case was kept on for 20 minutes , hence the diminution is not due to heat .
Since the internal resistance varies in this way , I now always take the internal resistance with the same current , viz. , 10 amperes .
11 .
The capacity of these batteries certainly improves with age , and up to the present time I have seen no sign of decay or deterioration .
M. Plant informed me that , though in course of time the peroxidised plate becomes very brittle , it is impossible to peroxidise it completely through ; there always remains a 'metallic core to give it strength .
My experience of these plates confirms this .
Up to the present moment I have made no careful measurements of the efficiency of my battery .
I cannot do so without deranging the lighting of my house , and I regard observations on single cells as illusory .
I put in about 240 , and I take out about 200 ampere-hours weekly , and I do not observe any change or fall in the electromotive force .
When the electromotive force of these cells falls , it falls rapidly , indeed , almost suddenly .
Occasionally one plate of a group becomes inactive from undue local action , or from bad connexion ( shown by the colour ) .
I remove this plate and put it in what I call a " hospital " cell , where it is brought into order either by a greater density of current or by reversal .
Now that my plates have been in use for some time they seem far less inclined to local action .
In the oldest cells there is no trace of local action .
12 .
Reversing has a great beneficial action on a cell ; it not only improves its capacity , but it removes any cause of irregular working .
It is advisable to do this periodically .
I have two extra cells , which enables me to have two cells always under reversal by means of the charging current .
It takes from 1,000 to 1,200 ampere-hours to reverse a cell in its present condition , so that at this time of year it takes a month or more to complete the operation , and it will take a year to reverse the whole battery .
I have thus , up to the present time , reversed 16 cells .

