I. " On the presence of fibrils of soft tissue in the Dentinal Tubes .
" By JOHN TOMES , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) Referring to the structural characters of dentine , and to the prevailing belief that the dentinal tubes in the normal condition contain fluid , the author goes on to show that the recognized histological characters fail to account for the high degree of sensibility exhibited by the dentine when diseased , or when suddenly exposed by the removal of the enamel .
It is found , moreover , that the dentine is not uniformly sensitive throughout , but possesses a much higher degree of sensibility at the peripheral distribution of the dentinal tubes than deeper in the substance of the tooth ; and it is urged that these facts cannot be accounted for by the presence of a fluid in the dentinal tubes , nor by supposing that the hard unyielding dentine is intrinsically endowed with sensation .
This view of the matter is borne out by the fact , that all sensibility is at once lost if the pulp of the tooth be destroyed .
Finding that the dentine owed its sensibility to the presence of the dentinal pulp , and knowing that the tubes have open extremities in contact with the pulp , the author was induced to examine carefully the contents of the tubes .
The investigation resulted in discovering that the dentinal tubes , instead of containing fluid only , give passage to fibrils of soft tissue , which pass from the pulp into the tubes where these open upon the surface of the pulp-cavity , and from thence may be traced into the branches .
The fibrils may be demonstrated by fracturing a perfectly fresh tooth , and then with a sharp knife taking very thin sections from the dentine near the edge of the pulp-cavity .
The dentine will , when cut , break up into small fragments , and from the edges of these the fibrils may be seen extending .
Sometimes a small portion of the pulp will be found adherent , in which case the fibrils may be seen to extend from that tissue into the dentine .
The fibrils may be shown in a more striking manner by decalcifying a section , and then , when it is placed upon a slide , tearing the specimen across the direction of the tubes .
By this manipulation , the fibrils will be dragged out from one fragment , and will be seen projecting from the edge of the other .
The fibrils , when isolated and examined with a high power , without the presence of a reagent , show some indications of tubularity , but not with sufficient distinctness to enable the author to determine whether they are tubes or solid bodies .
Their appearance is very like that of the ultimate fibrils of spinal nerves , and they possess a character in common with these , in the presence of minute globules of dense transparent matter exuded from the broken ends , and sometimes from the surface of the fibril .
It is not easy to determine in what manner the fibrils commence in the pulp .
In some preparations they appear to be connected with cells situated a short distance within the pulp , in others they may be traced to a greater depth , where they are lost in the tissue of the pulp , and may possibly be connected with the nerves , which in this part are very abundant .
But in the absence of exact knowledge as to the manner in which the dentinal fibrils are related to the elements of the pulp , the author considers that there is sufficient evidence to warrant the conclusion that they are organs of sensation , the distribution of which through the substance of the dentine endows that tissue with its sensibility .
This conclusion is borne out by the occurrence of the following conditions .
If a fragment of enamel be broken from the surface of the dentine , the exposed portion of the latter tissue is highly sensitive to the contact of foreign bodies ; but if the force producing the injury be sufficient to rupture the nerves and vessels where they enter the root of the tooth , the dentine loses its capability of feeling pain .
Again , if the dentine be exposed by the gradual wearing away of the enamel by mastication , the surface evinces no sensibility , a circumstance accounted for by the fact that the dentinal tubes have become consolidated , either at the surface exposed , or at some point between the surface and the pulp-cavity .
Diseased teeth furnish further evidence in favour of the foregoing views .
If a carious tooth , in which the disease has advanced but slowly , and the carious portion is dark in colour and tolerably firm in consistence , be examined , it will be found that the dentinal fibrils have become calcified , and in a favourable section they may be seen projecting from the edge of the specimen , or lying broken in short lengths in the tubes .
On removing the diseased part of the tooth in such a case , no pain is experienced until the instrument reaches the healthy dentine .
Supposing , however , the disease to have been rapid in its progress , the carious tissue will be light in colour , and , as compared with the preceding example , soft in consistence .
The removal of the affected part in this case is frequently attended with considerable pain .
Examination will then show that the dentinal fibrils have not been consolidated , but may be found here and there extending into the softened tissue without having suffered any appreciable alteration of appearance .
Daily experience shows that a tooth may remain useful for a long time after the pulp , and consequently the dentinal fibrils , have been destroyed .
If , however , a tooth which has been so circumstanced be examined , it will be found that one of two actions has been set up .
Either additional cementum will have been developed upon the surface of the fang , or its bulk will have become diminished by absorption .
Similar conditions supervene when the crown of a tooth has been lost by caries .
In old persons we find the teeth are lost without apparent disease in the dental tissues .
The teeth become loose and fall out , the roots being in such cases translucent like horn .
This condition is the result of consolidation of the dentinal fibrils , and is followed by absorption of the cementum and dentine .
Cases may be found in which the whole of the fang has been absorbed , but reduction to two-thirds or half of the normal bulk is very common .
The concurrence of the foregoing changes in the sensibility of the tooth , with the destruction or consolidation of the dentinal fibrils , will , the author considers , justify the conclusion , that the dentinal fibrils , in a state of integrity , are necessary to the normal condition of dentine .

