I. " On the Internal Distribution of Matter which shall produce a given Potential at the Surface of a Gravitating Mass .
" By G. G. STOKES , M.A. , Sec. R.S. , Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received April 18 , 1867 .
It is known that if either the potential of the attraction of a mass attracting according to the law of the inverse square of the distance , or the normal component of the attraction , be given all over the surface of the mass , or any surface enclosing it ( which latter case may be included in the former by regarding the internal density as null between the assumed enclosing surface and the actual surface ) , the potential and consequently the attraction at all points external to the surface and at the surface itself is determinate .
This proposition leads to results of particular interest when applied to the Earth , as I showed in two papers published in 1849* , where among other things I proved that if the surface be assumed to be , in accordance with observation , of the form of an ellipsoid of revolution , Clairaut 's Theorem follows independently of the adoption of the hypothesis of original fluidity , or even of that of an internal arrangement in nearly spherical strata of equal density .
But though the law of the variation of gravity which was originally obtained as a consequence of the hypothesis of primitive fluidity , and was afterwards found by Laplace to hold good , on the condition that the surface be an ellipsoid of revolution as well as a surface of equilibrium , provided only the mass be arranged in nearly spherical strata of equal density , be thus proved to be true whatever be the internal distribution , the question may naturally be asked , Does not the condition that the potential at the surface shall have its actual value require that the internal distribution shall be compatiblewith that of a fluid mass , or at anyrate shall be such that the whole mass shall be arranged in nearly spherical strata of equal density ?
Such a question was in fact asked me by an eminent mathematician at the time to which I have alluded .
I replied by referring to the well-known property of a sphere , according to which a central mass may be distributed uniformly over its surface without affecting the external attraction , by applying which proposition to a mass such as the Earth we may evidently , without affecting the external attraction , leave a large excentrically situated cavity absolutely vacuous , the matter previously within it having been distributed outside it .
It is known further that the mass of a particle may be distributed over any surface whatsoever enclosing the particle without affecting the external attraction , and in this way we see at once that we may leave any internal space we please , however excentrically situated , wholly vacuous ; nor is it necessary in doing so to introduce an infinite density , by distributing the whole mass previously within that space over its surface , since that mass may be conceived to be divided into an infinite number of infinitely small parts , which are respectively distributed over an infinite number of surfaces surrounding the space in question .
These considerations , however , though they readily show that the internal distribution may be widely different from any that is compatible with the hypothesis of primitive fluidity , do not lead to the general expression for the internal density .
Circumstances have recently recalled my attention to the subject , and I can now indicate the mode of obtaining the general expression required in the case of any given surface .
Let the mass be referred to the rectangular axes of x , y , z , and let p be the density , V be the potential of the attraction .
Then for any internal point V satisfies , as is well known , the partial differential equation dx2 ++y 4 d2-4rp ... .
( 1 ) or as it may be written for brevity VV=O .
This equation may be extended to all space by imagining the body continued infinitely , but having a density which is null outside the limits of the actual body ; and by adopting this convention we need not trouble ourselves about those limits .
Conversely , if V be a continuously varying function of x , y , z , which vanishes at an infinite distance , and satisfies the partial differential equation ( 1 ) , V is the potential of the attraction of the mass whose density at the point ( x , y , z ) is p ; or , in other words , vdx'dy'd- ' , ... ... .
( 2 ) where r is the distance between the points ( x , y , z ) and ( x ' , y ' , z ' ) , p ' the density at ( x ' , y ' , z ' ) , and the limits are oo to o , is the complete integral of ( 1 ) subject to the condition that V shall vanish at an infinite distance .
This may be proved in different ways ; most directly perhaps by taking the expression for the potential ( U suppose ) which forms the right.hand member of ( 2 ) , substituting for p ' its equivalent -VV ' , V being the same function of x ' , y , z ' that V is of x , y , , and transforming the integral in the manner done by Green* , when we readily find U=V .
Suppose now that we have a given closed surface S containing within it all the attracting matter , and that the potential has a given , in general variable , value V0 at the surface .
For the portion of space external to S , V is to be determined by the general equation VV=O , subject to the conditions V=Y-V at the surface , and V=O at an infinite distance .
We know that the problem of determining V under these circumstances admits of one and but one solution , though it is only for a very limited number of forms of the surface S that the solution can actually be effected .
Conceive dV the problem , however , solved , and from the solution let the value of -d v at the surface be found , v being measured outwards along the normal .
Now complete V for infinite space by assigning to the space within S any arbitrary but continuous * function we please , subject to the two conditions , 1st , that at the surface it is equal to the given function V ; 2ndly , that it gives for the value ofv at the surface that already got from the solution of the problem referred to in this paragraph .
This of course may be done in an infinite number of ways , just as we may in an infinite number of ways join two points in a plane by a continuous curve starting from the two points respectively in given directions , which curve may be either expressed by some algebraical or transcendental equation , or conceived as drawn liberd manu , and thought of independently of any idea of algebraical expression .
The function V having been thus assigned to the space internal to S , the equation ( 1 ) gives , according to what we have seen , the most general expression for the density of the internal matter .
There is , however , no distinction made in this between positive and negative matter , and if we wish to avoid introducing negative matter we must restrict the function V for the space internal to S to satisfy the imparity d27 d2V d2V d'12 + 0$ .
It is easy from the general expression to show , what is already known , that the matter may be distributed in an infinitely thin , and consequently infinitely dense stratum over the surface S , and that such a distribution is determinate .
We know that there exists one and but one continuous function appl ing to the space within S which satisfies the ecuation VV=0 , and is equal to VQ at the surface .
Call this function V1 .
It is to be remarked that the dV dV value of at the surface is not the same as that of d- , V being the exdv dvi ternal potential , though YVand V are there each equal to YV .
The argument , it is to be observed , does not assume that the two are different ; it merely avoids assuming that they are the same ; the result will prove that they cannot be the same all over S unless the density , and consequently the potential , be everywhere null , and therefore V0=0 .
Now attribute to the interior of Sa function V which is equal to V1 except over a narrow stratum adjacent to S , the thickness of which will in the end be supposed to vanish , within which V is made to deviate from V in such a manner as to render the variaticn of continuous and rapid instead of abrupt .
On applying equation ( 1 ) , we see that the density is everywhere null except within this stratum , in which it is very great , and in the limit infinite .
For the total quantity of matter contained in any portion of the stratum , we have from ( 1 ) the integration extending over that portion .
Let the portion in question be that corresponding to a very small area A of the surface S ; we may suppose it bounded laterally by the ultimately cylindrical surface generated by a normal to S which travels round the perimeter of A. Taking now rectangular coordinates X , p , of which the last is parallel to the normal at one point of A , since V is not changed in form by referring it to a new set of rectangular axes , we have for the mass required 1 _ffffJ d2V ( 1V d2V:rs d d/ +A{L2 ddX"2v }2 Of the differential coefficients within brackets , the last alone becomes infinite when the thickness of the stratum , and consequently the range of integration relatively to X , becomes infinitely small .
We have in the limit 'JrT dV dV , j~hV " =d : , / di , both diiferential coefficients having their values belonging to the surface .
H ence we have ultimately for the imrass 47r d , v drv THence , if zh be the superficial density , ( lefined as the limit of the mass corresponding to any small portion of the surface divided by the area of that portion , -ht ( i tih/ .
( 3 ) whbichl is the -knownv exprelssion , In assigniln arbitrarily a function V to the interior of S , in order to get the internal density by the application of the formula ( 1 ) , we may if we please discard the second of the conditions which V had to satisfy at the dV , cdv surface , namely , that , '--- ; but in that case to the mass , of finite density , determined by ( 1 ) must be added an infinitely dense and infinitely thin stratum extending over the surface , the finite superficial density of this stratum being given by ( 3 ) .
We have seen that the determination of the most general internal arrangement requires the solution of the problem , To determine the potential for space external to S , supposed f free fm attracting matter , in terms of the given potential at the surface ; and the determination of that particular arrangement in which the matter is wholly distributed over the surface , requires further the solution of the same problem for space internal to S. If , however , instead of having merely the potential given at the surface S we had given a particular arrangement of matter within S , and sought the most general rearrangement which should not alter the potential at S , there would have been no preliminary problem to solve , since V , and therefore its differential coefficients , are known -for space generally , and therefore for the surface S , being expressed by triple integrals .
Instead of having the attracting matter contained within a closed surface S , and the attraction considered for space external to S , it might have been the reverse , and the same methods would still have been applicable .
The problem in this form is more interesting with referelce to electricity than gravitation .
II .
" On the Integrability of certain Partial Differential Equations proposed by Mr. Airy .
" By R. MOON , M.A. , late Fellow of Queen 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. SYLVEaSTER .
Received April 30 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The equation -= , +-4-y , ... ( 1 c1y " d/ .v die where a , f. , y are functions of x , includes two equations recently proposed for solution by Mr. Airy , and affords a good illustration of the ordinary incapacity of partial differential equations of the second order for solutions involving arbitrary functions .
If the above equation admit of an integral solution containing one or more arbitrary functions , it must be capable of being derived from an equation of the form F(:)v / ( ) =ef ( .
, , ) } , e h ... ... .
( 2 )

