2 .
" On the Annual Variation of the Magnetic Declination , at different periods of the Day .
" By Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. &amp;c. Received April 30 , 1851 .
In this communication the author has arranged and presented together the Annual variations which the magnetic declination undergoes at every hour of the day at the four Colonial Observatories established by the British government , at Toronto , Hobarton , the Cape of Good Hope and St. Helena .
This has been done by means of a graphical representation , in which the annual variations at every hour are shown by vertical lines varying in length according to the amount of the range of the annual variation at each hour ; each line having also small cross lines marking the mean positions of the several months in the annual range .
The mean declination in the year at the respective hours is marked by a horizontal line which crosses all the verticals at each station .
The hours are those of ' mean solar time at each station , the day commencing at noon .
The annual variations represented in the plate were obtained at Toronto from three years of observation , viz. 1845 , 46 , 47 ; at Hobarton from five years , viz. July 2nd , 1843 to July 1y 1848 ; at the Cape of ' Good Hope from five years , viz. July 2nd , 1841 to July 1st , 1846 ; and at St. Helena from three years , viz. July 2nd , 1844 to July 1st , 1847 .
The author observes that it is perceived at the first glance at the plate , that the range of variation at all the four stations is considerably greater during the hours of the day than during those of the night ; and that there is a great similarity , though not a perfect identity , at all the stations in the relative amount of the range at different hours .
Further , that the amount does not progressively enlarge to a maximum at or about noon , when the sun 's altitude is greatest ; or at the early hours of the afternoon , when the temperature is greatest ; but that at all the stations the increase of the range is most rapid in the first or second hour after sunrise ; and that its extent at the hours from 7 to 9 A.M. is not exceeded at any subsequent hour at Hobarton , the Cape and St. Helena , whilst at Toronto ' the great enlargement takes place even earlier , the hours of 6 , 7 and 8 A.M. being exceeded by none , though they are equalled by a second increase at noon and the two following hours .
This second enlargement is perceptible at the same hours at Hobarton and St. Helena .
With reference to the relative positions of the several months in each of the vertical lines , or at the different hours , it is observed that certain months , which are found congregated at the one extremity of the range during the early hours of the morning , undergo a transfer towards the opposite extremity at a subsequent period of the day ; thus the months June , July , August usually occupy one extremity of the range , and November , December , January the other extremity , in the morning hours , and until from 8h to 10h A.M. , when each of the two groups is respectively transferred towards the opposite extremity to that which it previously occupied .
The period at which this transfer takes place is somewhat earlier at Toronto and St. Helena than at the Cape of Good Hope and Hobarton .
The comportment of the two equinoctial months , March and September , at the Cape of Good Hope and St. Helena is pointed out as presenting a remarkable contrast to that of the two solstitial groups which have been described , and at the same time a still more remarkable contrast to each other , March being at almost all the hours on the West , and September on the East , of the mean line .
In conclusion the author points out one or two practical considerations suggested by the facts under notice:1 .
That as , in the Annual Variation represented in the plate , the same months occupy positions on opposite sides of the mean line at different parts of the twenty-four hours , the mean annual variation , or that which is shown by the mean values in each month taken from all the observation hours , must be merely a residual and not an absolute quantity ; and that consequently natural features must be more or less masked in deductions in which only mean values are brought into view .
In fact , as has been shown in the published volumes of the observations at St. Helena and HI-obarton , the mean annual variation at those stations is so small as to be scarcely sensible .
But when we resolve these mean results into their respective constituents , viz. the annual variation at each of the observation hours , there is then at once disclosed to us an order of natural phenomena , very far from inconsiderable in amount , systematic in general aspect , and apparently well deserving the attention of those who are occupied in the delightful and highly intellectual pursuit of tracing the agencies of nature .
2 .
We perceive in the variations of the position of the several months in the annual range , the necessity of paying regard to the period of the year , as well as to the period of the day at which observations have been made which do not include long intervals , and from which , nevertheless , inferences are drawn in respect to secular change .
Such observations , when not those of a fixed observatory , are usually made at some hour in the day-time , when it needs only a glance at the plate to perceive that annual as well as diurnal variation-corrections are required , unless the month as well as the hour are the same in the earlier and later observations .
A table of corrections for every hour of the day to the mean value in each month-corrections derived , as in the instances now before the Society , from a series of strictly comparable observations continued for several years-should be considered , not merely as a desirable , but as an almost indispensable provision , in countries where magnetic surveys are conducted with the degree of perfection of which they are now susceptible .

