]\gt ; Some Unclassfied Properties of Solids By A. MALLOCK , F.R.S. ( Received July 23 , \mdash ; Read November 7 , 1912 .
) In ordinary physical investigations solids and liquids are treated as having density and two species of elasticity .
The limits of elasticity are also recognised as ards direct pull or thrust and shear ; and since fracture or yielding of solids under these stresses give a convenient measure of their strength for constructional purposes this subject has received much attention .
In liquids and semi-liquids the resistance to shear is as viscosity , and is taken to be directly proportional to the rate of shearing .
If the forces of surface attraction are included , the above-mentioned list contains all the qualities ( not chemical or electrical ) from which the behaviour of the materials in various circumstances is generally deduced .
In conversation and ordinary language , however , many other qualities are definitely recognised and have been distinguished by special adjectives , but their relations to the fundamental properties of the substances which exhibit them are unclassified .
A list of some of these adjectives is subjoined , and it is the purpose of the present note to suggest the relations between the qualities so denoted and the various measurable constants of the substances to which they are applicable .
List of adjectives relative to\mdash ; Solids .
Surfaces .
Liquids .
Hard . .
Hard .
Smooth .
Mobile .
Soft .
Ductile .
Soft .
Oily .
Brittle .
Malleable .
Fibrous .
Viscid .
Friable .
Plastic .
Granular .
Frothy .
In a paper on " " The Extension of Cracks in an Isotropic Substance\ldquo ; * I said that it seemed more correct to consider the limit of shear and the limit of volume extension as the fundamental limits of a material rather than the limits of shear and of tensile or crushing stress , the latter being compound stresses involving in themselves ) shear and variation of volume ; and since reference to the first-named pair of limits will be frequently made in the present note , the following amplification of the sense in which the words shear limit and volume limit are read is here inserted .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , pp. 26\mdash ; 29 .
Undassified operties of Solids and Liqu ids .
467 Suppose a material to be ma uP of a quantity of symmetrically arranged particles which react on one another by two different sets of forces , one in the direction of the normal to the lines joining them , the other in the pla1les at right angles to the nornlals and that when the material is not subject to nny external stress both forces are zero .
* Suppose also that for very small strains the displacements and forces are directly proportioned to one another , but that for greater displacements the relation in each case is some unknown function which ultimately makes the variation of stress zero for shear and also for volume dilatation , but that if the strain presses the adjacent parts into closer contact , the force between required for the purpose has no superior limit .
A mateJ'ial so constructed would have many of the properties which racterise real bodies , and without for a moment suggesting that this is the actual form which molecular , takes , the conception may be used to define the terms used in this note .
Thus by shear limit is understood the alteration of the between .
the lines joining neighbouring particles , at which the increase of sponding resistance to the displacement rapidly falls , or at which the stress becomes zero .
By volume limit , in the same way , is understood the increase of distance between adjacent particles at which the attraction either ) ains constant or vanishes .
There are really two limits to be considered both for shear and volume expansion , na1nely , the linlit at which the stress ceases to increase with the strain and the limit of lpture at which the stress ceases there .
These will be referred to as the first and second limits .
It will be seen that explanations of all the properties indicated by the list of adjectives given above can be explained by relations between ( 1 ) The absolute values of resistance to change of olume ftnd change of shape .
( 2 ) The volume limits and shear limits .
( 3 ) Forces belonging to the surfaces ( surface tension in liquids and forces of the same nature in solids ) .
Consider , for instance , the fracture of a material by tensile stress .
In fig. 1 ( which is nearly the same as that given in Thomson and Tait , ' Not .
Phil vol. 1 , Part 2 , p. 220 ) let a cube of material be subject to a tension , F. The eHect of this tension can be represented by a volume expansion such as would be caused by an outward force acting on all ertain torces aiffereIlt , of these matters offers a wide field for useful experiment .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Some [ July 23 , the the ) , together with two shears such as would be caused all inward force the faces parallel to and , and an force 2 acting on the two faces parallel to XOZ .
The volume expansion caused by is , and the linear dilatation , two Hhears together cause an extension parallel to of or , and a linear contraction of parallel to X and and the coefficients of volume expansion and shear .
If and are considered not as constants but as functions of the refcr to , the total extension will be , but the relation of the total force to the and dilating stress is always 3 : 2 itnd 3 : whatever relations and bear to the extension .
Since is very little infor } ation available on the actual values of outside the elastic limits , will assume for the present that both FI G. 1 .
constant up to the limitsc above defined , and an examination of the different effects produced according as the shear limit or volume limit is first reached will go far to explain the great variety observed in the character of the fractures of different otropic substances .
Of course , with substances which not isotropic , the variety may be even greater .
In fig. 2 let OK , ON , be the straight lines defined by and ectively , where and ?
are the forces due to the volume extension and the shear extension If the total tensional stress is / ?
and , and the extension of the material by the force is represented by the line OA , whose equation is , or , since , we have .
The construction for OA is obvious from the figure .
In the same way OB gives the lateral contraction for same tension .
1912 .
] Mechanical Properties of Solids and Liquids .
Now suppose that for volume extensions greater than , and extensions greater than , the applied force can never exceed , and can only reach this value when .
In any other case rupture will 0CCU1 either by the volume limit or shear limit being exceeded , according as is smaller or greater than If , the first } ) ture may occur in any direction with reference to the direction of the tension , but in most real cases the strain will be concentrated at some section at right angles to the direction of the pull , and will be .
intensified by the rupture of any part at that section .
The general direction of the fracture will therefore be more or less directly across the direction of pull , but will present a rough or granular appearance from the running together of the differently oriented individual ruptures .
If , on the other hand , , the rupture is due to shear , and the character of the surface of the fracture will depend on the shear extension which can occur in excess of before actual rupture takes place .
When this is very small the fracture proceeds as a spreading crack , when large it presents fibrous surface , on account of the drawing out of the parts veen many individual ruptures .
The fact that few homogeneous solids are much altered in density by any mechanical treatment shows that such volume extension as may be produced by stress is chiefly elastic , and hence in eneral complete rupture will occur when the first volume limit is reached , but , as regards the shear limits , there is often , as everyday experience shows , a very large interval between the strain at which stress and strain cease to be directly proportional and tlJe strain at which rupture takes place .
When the stress is removed from a substance which has passed the shear limit for the first time , it is generally found that , not only is some of the extension permanent , so that the diagram of stress and strain is of the character shown in fig. 3 , but that , when the stress is reapplied , the value of , measured from the new zero , is increased , thus showing that some rearrangement of has taken place which favours elastic .
The stress limit of rupture is much less affected .
When the stress is a pressure instead of a , rupture must depend entirely on the shear limit , since there is no known limit to the volume compression which a substance , whether isotropic or not , can withstall( without rupture ; nor in the case of isotropic substances does there seem Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Unclassijied [ July 23 , any reason to expect that sucl ] a linut exists .
Thus it may very well happen that a material which cannot be stretched to any great extent without rupture will yield under end pressure without loss of continuity .
In liquids and semi-liquids not only the absolute strains have to be considered , but the rate at which they are increased .
There is no experi- mental reason to believe that the volume stress and strain relation involves time , or differs , except in , from that which holds solids , but as regards shear , and in the cnse of mobile fluids , the shearing stress appears to be exactly proportioned to the rate at which the strain is applied , and the limits to large or infinite .
With thick fluids , such as oils or pitch , there are finite limits to the rate at which shear can be applied without rupture , and for viscous solids ( e.g. cold pitch ) these limits are often small .
Many actual solids also ( lead , zinc , marble , slate , etc yield in time to forces which if applied rapidly cause no permanent distortion .
After these preliminary remarks the relation suggested between the constant of the various materials and the qualities denoted by the adjectives , suggested in the orams and explanations , will be readily followed .
Hard ; Soft .
These words have different meanings when applied to the substance and to the surface of a material .
Body hardness may be measured absolutely by the ratio of the stress at the shear limit to the corresponding strain , but in practice the hardness tests only give comparative results .
One of the tests most commonly used is the size of depression made by a hard steel ball when pressed into the material by a known force .
This has the merit of simplicity , but is open to various objections , among which may be mentioned the change of curvature in the surface of the ball over the area of contact when the hardness of the latter and of the material are comparable , and also the change in the character of the deformation as the ' increases .
A better forll of test is the measurement of the depth to which a givelI force will drive a edge or conical point .
With a wedge the character of the strain is nearly , and with a cone quite , independent of the depth of penetration , and without much trouble either of these tests can be made to furnish a hardness value in absolute measure .
Penetration methods , however , are only to materials which yield without breaking , but for those which rupture before taking a permanent set there is at present no recognised hardness test .
If the materials can be worked with steel tools their hardness be deduced 1912 .
] Properties of Solids Liquids .
from the force required to take a cut of known cross section with a tool of standard form .
The rate at which , under defined conditions , removes the material also be used as a measure of hardness , but from the nature of the operation the results would only be comparative .
Resistance to volume compression , to which there is no known limit , may occasionally be confounded with hardness , as for instance when ( as I have seen happen ) a turned-up corner of a sheet of paper has left au impression on the surface of the steel rollers through which it has passed . .
Tough .
These words express qualities which are to some extent opposites , and imply that the limits to which the material can be strained are either very small or very large .
But toughness also means that the resistance to shear continues to increase , or at any rate does not diminish , after the elastic has been passed .
A substance may be brittle either because of the smallness of the volume , or of the shear limits , but there is no known instance of the volume limit being enough to confer the property of hness .
As was noticed in the paper on " " The Extension of Cracks\ldquo ; referred to ) , the behaviour of a substance during rupture differs according as the volume limit or shear limit is first reached .
A good example is furnished by a gelatine mass , which if containing much water ( a jelly , in fact ) has large shear limits , but becomes more and more rigid ( with strain and increasing stress limits ) as it dries , and , when in the condition of ordinary glue as sold in sheets , is actually brittle .
If the end of a crack in a soft jelly containing much water is examined it will be seen that it forms an angle of perhaps to , or more , but with a fairly sharp edge .
A stiffer jelly exhibits , in place of a sharp edge , a rounded end with a tendency , sometimes rather pronounced , for the opposite walls to form stringy buttresses , and as the amount of water diminishes the radius of curvature of the end of the crack diminishes .
When dryness is approacbed the character of the rupture changes rather suddenly from fig. 4 ( c ) to .
These facts may be explained by supposing that the first and second limits for shear differ independently for jellies of different water-content .
In let AB be the curve on which the first shear limits lie , from 4 ' dry\ldquo ; at A to the maximum water-content at B. A straight line through to any point on AB will represent the stress- strain relation up to the first shear limit for a jelly whose water-content is indicated by the position P. Let CD be the curve for the second shear limit ( where rupture takes place ) .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Some ssified [ July 23 , It may be assumed that the stress between the first and second limits is nearly constant , and also that , although the volume limits differ with the change of position of , the stress-strain relation for volume dilatation remains unaltered .
The character of the rupture of three jellies colresponding to FIG. 4 .
FIe .
5 .
will differ as follows : , where the jelly is nearly dry and the volumelimit stress is greater than half the ordinate of , the rupture takes place by shear , but as at the first and second shear limits are coincident there is no permanent extension and the fracture is a crack .
At , where the distance between the ) is a maximum , the rupture still takes place by shear but with considerable permanent deformation , and volume limit is probably but little greater than half the ordinate of For the appearance of the ruptured surface suggests that stress at may be less than half the ordinate of and that the rupture may be due to insufficient cohesion . .
Ductile .
A alleable material is one t$ hich will yield without lupture under blows , and ductility implies that the llaterial will , in the same way , yield to pull .
The stresses are the same in both cases except as regards the sign of the olume alteration .
Under the hammer the material undergoes shear and volume compression , and when drawn , shear and volume dilatation .
Any material , therefore , capable of taking large permanent set will be malleable , but only those materials capable of taking large permanent set at stresses less than the volume limits for dilatation will be ductile .
Plastic .
A material is plastic when , if constrained to take any shape , it retains that shape when the constraint is removed .
Thus plasticity implies the vanishing 1912 .
] Mechanical Properties of Solids crnd Liquids .
of elastic strain ether with a great or unlimited sheal-rupture .
The diagram of stress and strain for an ideal plastic material is nilar to that for a perfect fluid , except that the resistance to shear is finite instead of zero at zero velocity .
Moist clay is one of the typically plastic substa1lces , and the plastic state it appears that the resistance to deformation is not influenced by magnitude of a general volume compression .
so that it would take the work to produce the same deformation whether the vohnne compression were a pound or a ton per square inch .
SURFACE QUALITIES . .
Soft .
The hardness of a surface is the 's hardness , relatively by the facility with which the surface can be scratched .
Of any two materials the one which will produce a scratch on the surface of the other is said to be the harder , and in this a scale of hardness has been made , with diamond at one end ( hardness 10 ) and talc at the other ( hardness 1 ) .
This kind of hardness has no known relation to body hardness .
Quartz , for instance , will scratch hard steel but is easily crushed by it , thus showing that steel will bear internal stress without rnpture , and , as far as body and hardness are concerned , hard steel is the hardest substance known ( not excepting diamolld ) .
I believe , though I have not proved , surface hardness should be defined as the limiting which can be applied to a surface without causing rupture .
Every conception one can form of the molecular points to a thin layer of the surface being in a different condition from the interior , and the phenomena of surface tension prove that this is actually the case .
It is difficult to believe that the same class of forces which cause surface tension cease to operate when a fluid passes to the solid state ; it seelns more probable that they intensified by the change .
If this is the the surface limits , both for shear and volume , would differ from the same quantities in the interior , but in a way which could only be determined by a ] of the molecular structure .
Molecular relations may be easily which would either raise or lower the limits , but , in default of definite tion , the surface tension analogue affords a not improbable explanation of the differences between the 's hardness and hardn as mderstood by constructors .
The remaining qualities denoted by the adjectives in the list apply chiefly to surfaces caused by fracture .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Sonoe Unclassified [ July 23 , Fibrous ; These ma.y , of course , be due to actual fibres or grains e.g. wood or sandstone ) but in an isotropic substance the first may be caused , as before indicated , by toughness , which allows of considerable permanent extension by shear ) where rupture ultimately happens by volume extension , and the secolJd when the shear limits are very narrow and less than the volume limit .
The ranular texture thus produced may be so fine that the broken surface is smooth but with a slightly pearly look , such as is seen in some carbon steels and broken , or flint .
A brittle , non-crystalline luatelial , which raptures by shear , genelally presents facets in its fracture , not necessarily a smooth surface .
When a crack spreads with high velocity in a substance , as it does when started by a blow , for instance , the broken surface often shows what is called conchoidal fracture , may be explained by the velocity of extension of the crack ) arable with the speed of propagation of elastic waves in the matelial , for at the end of the crack there will be a periodic variation of the direction of the sheal.ing stress on the difference of the two velocities .
Where the fractured body is small enough for the waves reflected from the boundaries to again aiiect the region in the end of the crack is at the time , the conchoidal marking may be very complicated , but in large and massive blocks only a few successive aves appear .
FLUIDS AND SEIII-FLUIDS .
Substituting for the stress and strain diagram of a perfect fluid reduces itself to two straight lines coincident witil the axes of for all Yalues that is , there is infinite resistance to compression or extension and none to shear .
In evely real fluid , though , is always finite and has a definite limit , while ( the elastic resistance to shear ) is immeasurably small for such fluids as water , alcohol , ether , etc. In certain viscous liquids , however ( gelatine solutions , for instance ) , has a finite value when , so that there is some elastic reaction even at anishing velocities , and in the semi-fluids , such as pitch , this is still more marked .
for many other fluids , such as treacle and , although the viscosity is great there seems to be no indication of elasticity as regards 1912 .
] Mechanical Properties of Solids and Liquids .
The point of interest is to examine how these properties , when in conjunction with surface tension , affect the behaviour of the material which possesses them .
Mobile .
This term is applied to liquids whose kinematic viscosity is small .
The magnitude of and its limit does not affect this quality , but the ternl relates also to the appearance of the surface of the fluid where it meets a solid and would be applied only where in addition to small viscosity there was small surface tension .
Thus water and mercury would hardly be called 4 ' mobile while alcohol and ether , with their small viscosity and low surface tensiou , are typically so .
Oily .
The characteristic of oiliness\ldquo ; is considerable viscosity and low surface tension .
Viscid .
A fluid is said to be viscid if it shows a tendency to draw out into or fibres when subject to ) .
This property implies that the cohesion , which depends on the volume linlit , is ) the shear limit , and for viscid liquids the shear limit at the velocity of separation is collpared to the rees of surface tension .
In the case of semi-fluids where , with the requisite cohesion , the viscosity very great , the surface tension ceases to have much influence on the result , as is shown by the irregular cross-section of the fibres which may be from it .
Since the resistance to shear in viscous fluids increases continually the rate of shear , there is always a speed for the formation of a filament , the speed , nely , at which the force required to produce the necessary shear exceeds the shear If surface tension were absent a fibre or filament of a viscous fluid would , when the tension which produced it ceased to act , be in neutral equilibrium .
The action of surface tension , however , produces instability , because if the diameter of any portion is htly altered over a length greater than its circumference , surface is diminished , and the surface tenbion will ultirnately cause the fibre to assume that form exposes the minimum surface permitted by the tances .
In the fibres which are most familar ( e.g. , spider web , silk , glass , quartz , etc permanence of form depends on a in the constants of * Rayleigh , " " Instability of Jets 'Lond .
Math. Soc. Proc 1879 , vol. 10 , p. 413 ; or ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 361 .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Some Unclassifi , ed [ July 23 , the substance the process of drawing , quick enough to fix the form before the surface tension has had time to take its full effect .
In the case of silk the hardening must ) very rapid , for the cross-section of the fibres , is not even cylindrical .
Frothy .
property of forming bubbles or liquid films , possessed by many and to which the term frothy applies , depends on the relation between viscosity and surface tension , but on cohesion also , even to a greater thal } in the formation of filaments .
For if a cube be subject bo a tension normal to the four lateral faces , with the condition that no force acts on the end faces , it will be readily seen from fig. ( 6 ) that the stress can represented by two shears each , and a volume extension force of ( instead of volume extension force , and shear as in the case of tension in one Sion ) .
In the production of a film , therefore , volume limit will be reached at one-fourth of the velocity of extension which required to attain the same result in drawing a filament .
As with a filament , if surface tension is absent , a fluid lilm is in neutral equilibrium , but if present , it is a stabilising force tending to thicken any thin places and to the thicker parts , and were it possible to a portion of a fluid film and make the boundary conditions such that the fluid surfaces were nornffi to the solid at the lines of their junction , the film would be stable for any form of displacement ( short of rupture ) which could be imposed on it .
Such boundary conditions , however , cannot be fulfilled with real fluids , for unless the fluid wets the boundary the latter cannot supply the requisite tension , and when wetting takes place the curvature of the surface in the neighbourhood of the boundary causes the pressure in the fluid to be less. .
here than in the distant parts where the film is nearly flat or of nearly uniform thickness .
For this reason there is a constant drain of fluid from 1912 .
] Mechanical Prol of Solids and Liquids .
the film towards the boundaries .
Thus any real film is un stable , the time required to thin the film in way to ) point of rupture with some fluids be reckoned in hours or even in days .
It should be added that the stability .
a film ( apart from boundary conditions ) is limited by the assumption in no place is it thin that the SUl.face tension falls off In fig. OK represent the ) to cause the dilatation , and ON be the force equired to at rate .
In the production of ament / , and in the lnction of a film with linear extension surface extension ) the rate Thus by an obvious construction , when surface tension is not taken into account , OD and OC are the stress and strain for the production of a fibre and a filament respectively from the same liquid ; and if the point on OB at ) cohesion ) reaks down , and on ON the point at which the velocity makes the shear force greater than the liquid will stand ; then , according the view suggested in this paper , a viscid lluid is one for which the volume limit / ?
is at any rate not less than at the velocity of extension .
and for which also the surface tension is sltRll enough not to break up the iibl e before it has attained a considerable lengtb .
A frothy fluid on the other hand ) have ?
not less than / and to correct accidental variations of thickness while the film is extended .
In the absence therefore of surface tension it would always be possible to form either a film or a filanlent from any liquid if the velocity was sufFiciently reduced , but surface tension int account it llay happen that the production of a filament becomes impossible any velocity , from the fact that when the latter is slow enough to the tensional force Messrs. A. S. Russell and R. Rossi .
[ Sept. 26 , within the limits of the substance , the surface tension may have time to cause the filament to break from instability .
It would appear , therefore , that any liquid which can be drawn into threads can also produce films , but that the converse is not true , and this seems to agree with observed facts .
Since the explanations which I have put forward in note depend more on observation thau experiment , it is probable that an exact knowledge of the relations of and some modification necessary ; but that the separate limits of volume dilatation and shear are the groundwork of the characteristics which are denoted by the adjectives in the ] ( and many others ) is , I think , almost certain .
An Investigation of the of Ionium .
By A. S. , Carnegie Research Fellow of the Uniyersity of Glasgow , and R. ROSSI , M.Sc .
, Hon. Research Fellow of the University of fanchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received September 26 , \mdash ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) The preparation of described by Prof. Rutherford in the footnote consisted of a mixture of the oxides of ionium and thorium .
The percentage of ionium oxide in the preparation is not known .
It can be calculated , however , provided we know both the period of ionium and the number of -particles emitted by 1 .
of the substance per second .
The latter has been determined by Dr. H. Geiger , who found that 1 expelled -particles per second .
The period , however , is not known with certainty .
Soddy has found that , on certain assumptions , it is at least *The preparation of ioniun ] examined by Messrs. Russell and Rossi was separated from the actinium residues loaned to me by the Royal Society in 1907 .
A detailed statement of the methods employed in its separation has been given by Prof. B. B. Boltwood in a paper entitled " " Report on the Separation of and Actinium from certain Residues , on the Production of Helium by Ionium\ldquo ; ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 77 ) .
The preparation consisted of pure thorium oxide , containing an unknown percentage of ionium oxide .
From measurements of the number of -particles emitted by the preparation it was concluded that it should contain at least 10 per cent. of ionium , if the period of the latter were not less than 100,000 years .
On these data itwas anticipated that the preparation should show clearly the strong spectroscopic lines of ionium as well as a complete spectrum of thorium.\mdash ; E. RUTHERFORD .

