881 .
] Mr. J. Hopkinson .
Dielectric Capacity of Liquids .
347 i 1 The expectancy for the coincidences between two quantities in he second compartment .
2 The expectancy for the coincidences between one quantity in ihe first compartment and one in the second .
i Now A is supposed to increase gradually from a value smaller than 1 to a value larger than -i .
As long as it is smaller , the result must ^2 a ?
pe the same as that we have previously obtained , but none of thej quantities which enter into the calculation show any discontinuity , as A passes through the value i , and hence the formula cannot change B at that point and must be true as far as the value - , or as B may be in the limit equal to \#151 ; , we have extended our formula to all values of A smaller than \#151 ; .
It can be further extended in the same way and a3 must in fact be true for all values of A. V. " Dielectric Capacity of Liquids .
" By J. HOPKINSON , F.R.S. Received January 6 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) 1 These experiments have for object the determination of the refractive indices and the specific inductive capacity of certain liquids , and a comparison of the square of the refractive index for long waves and the specific inductive capacity .
In the following table are given the results obtained for refractive index for long waves deduced by the formula n=Pco the square of / too , and the observed values ( K ) of capacity .
Petroleum spirit ( Field 's ) ... Petroleum oil ( Field 's ) ... ... " ( Common ) ... ... Ozokerit lubricating oil ( Field 's ) Turpentine ( Commercial ) ... .
Castor oil ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Sperm oil ... ... ... ... ..\lt ; . . . .
Olive oil ... ... ... ... ... .
Neatsfoot oil ... ... ... ... ... the specific inductive A4oo K 1-922 1-92 2-075 2-07 2-078 2-10 2-086 213 2-128 2-23 2153 4-78 2135 3-02 2-131 3-16 2-125 3-07 348 Mr ' J-N- Lockyer .
[ Jan\gt ; ^ It will be seen that while for hydrocarbons fa =K , for animal at , r vegetable oils it is not so .
VI .
" Note on the Occurrence of Ganglion Cells in the Anterior Roots of the Cat 's Spinal Nerves .
" By E. A. Schafer F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1881 .
Ganglion cells are of constant occurrence among the nerve-fibres ol the anterior roots of the cat 's spinal nerves .
They are generally to be found in that part of the anterior root which passes by the ganglion which is seated upon the posterior root .
They are not necessarily situated next the ganglion ; but are often imbedded in the middle of the anterior root , or found lying along its anterior margin , and there- ) fore as far removed as possible from the ganglion upon the other I root .
Moreover , they sometimes occur in the anterior root before this has come in contact with the ganglion , just as isolated ganglion cells are occasionally to be found in the posterior root , some little distance on the spinal-cord side of its ganglion .
The cells in question , although not in any sense numerous , are to be found in most longi-tudinal sections of the anterior roots , but they seem to be especially j abundant in those of the lower dorsal and lumbar nerves .
They resemble on the whole very closely the ganglion cells in the spinal ganglion upon the sensory roots , but it has not hitherto been possible to make out their mode of connexion with the nerve-fibres .
I have sought in vain for ganglion cells in a similar situation in the nerve-roots of man , the dog , the rabbit , and the mouse .
The evidence , therefore , appears to be against the existence of any relation between the occurrence of these cells in the anterior root and the phenomenon of sensibility in that root , known as " recurrent sensation , " for the latter has been observed in animals in which I have been entirely unable to detect the existence of the cells in question ( e.g. , the rabbit ) .
VII .
" On the Iron Lines widened in Solar Spots .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1881 .
The observations put forward with reserve in my last communication to the Society have now been confirmed .
In the fine spots visible on December 24tb , January 1st and 6th , many lines in the spectrum of iron were seen contorted , while others were steady .
The facts are given in the following table:\#151 ;

