On the Action of detached Leaves of Plants .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the Right HIon .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read June 13 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 289 .
] Mr. Knight having on a former occasion inferred , from his experiments and observations , that the true sap of trees , from which the living parts are generated , owes its properties to having circulated through the leaves , now adduces other facts , more directly in point , to show that a fluid similar to the true sap actually descends through the leaf-stalks .
A transverse section was made through the bark of a vine , at the middle of the insertion of the leaf-stalk , by passing a slender knife through the stalk , so as to split it for about two thirds of an inch above its insertion .
Another transverse incision of the bark having also been made nearly an inch below , these sections were joined by longitudinal incisions at each end , so that a piece of the bark , half an inch broad and nearly one inch long , could be detached from the stem , still remaining united to the lower half of the split leaf-stalk .
Being afterwards protected on all sides from the air by waxed paper , it was found to grow in all its dimensions , and to have thin layers of alburnum deposited upon its interior surface .
In a second experiment , leaves from the potato were taken at the period when the tuberous roots were ' beginning to form , and were planted in pots , under the expectation that these leaves even alone might have power to form tubers .
The effect , however , was not exactly as the author had anticipated ; but the power was manifested by the production of a conical swelling at the lower part , more than two inches in circumference , apparently similar in composition to a tuber , and retaining life to the following spring .
Leaves of mint , also detached in the same manner , were found to throw out roots , and to continue alive through the winter , assuming the character and hue of those of evergreen trees .
Since it had appeared , from former experiments , that the growth of immature leaves depends upon matter afforded by those already arrived at a state of maturity , Mr. Knight cut off several shoots of a vine , and laying them over basins of water , immersed portions of the larger leaves ; and he found that under these circumstances the young leaves continued to grow for upwards of a month , during which they necessarily depended on the larger leaves for their supply of nourishment .
The progress of fruit , likewise , is proved to depend upon the mature leaves ; for if these be destroyed , the fruit ceases to grow , and gains nothing in ripeness or flavour : and , accordingly , those trees alone are capable of ripening fruit during winter which retain their leaves at that season , of which the Orange , Lemon , Ivy , and Holly , are familiar examples .
With regard to the period curing which the true sap is accumulated as store for future growth , and returned from its reservoirs into the circulation , it may be difficult clearly to discover anything certain ; but the author has not ceased to prosecute his experiments on the varying density of the alburnum , and other parts of the wood , and on the proportion of moisture which they lose by drying ; and he hopes at some future time to lay before the Society his observations , showing how far the durability of the heart wood depends on the period at which a tree is felled .

