XII .
An Account of an Experiment touching the Proportions of the Ascent of Spirit of Wine between two Glass Planes , whose Surfaces were placed at certain different Distances from each other .
By the late Mr. Francis Hauksbee , F. R. S. I Took two Glass Planes , about 6 Inches long , and two broad : These ( being made clean ) I separated at each end by the number of 32 pieces of Brass Laminae , whose thickness , when laid one upon another , and pressed together by Screws , made a distance between the Planes equal to ( as near as I could measure ) 1/ 16 of an Inch .
Being thus prepared , I plunged one end of them into some ting 'd Spirit of Wine ; and after I had wetted the inward Surfaces of the Planes with it , by declining the upper end , I set them upright ; and found that the Surface of the Wine between them remained higher than the Surface of the Wine on their outsides , by a distance equal to the first Line CD above the Line A B , the Line AB being the common Surface , in all the trials , on the outside of the Planes .
( See the Scheme hereunto annexed ) After this , I reduced the distances of the Planes to half the former , by taking away 16 of the Brass Laminae from each end of them ; then being plunged into the Liquid , and used in all respects as before , I found the Wine to stand between the Planes just double the height it stood at in the former trial ; as may be observed by the Line OF in the Scheme .
Again removing half the number of Brass pieces , whereby but 8 of them were left at each end , and using them as in the preceding manner , the Wine rose between them to a height just double to that in the foregoing trial , marked in the Scheme by the Line G H. Thus from 8I reduced them to 4 pieces at each end of the Planes ; then again the Wine was seen to remain suspended to twice the last observed height , represented by the Line I K. In this last trial the Planes were distant one from the other but 1/ 128 of an Inch ; nearer than that I could make no certain measure ; but I suppose the forecited Experiments are sufficient to ground a Calculation upon , even of the most near Approximations .
Parts of an Inch .
1/ 128 IK The The Heights different of the Distances Surfaces of the of the Spi~ 1/ 64 GH rit of Wine from at the each ~ other .
1/ 32 OF Distances ~/ 16 CD of the AB Planes .

