2 .
A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Cause of the reduction of Metals from solutions of their salts by the Voltaic circuit .
" By Alfred Smee , Esq. , F.R.S. , Surgeon to the Bank of England .
The reduction of a metal from its saline solution by the agency of voltaic electricity , has , the author states , been explained in three different ways .
By Hisinger , by Berzelius , and by Faraday it has been ascribed to the liberation of hydrogen in this process : Davy and others considered it as resulting directly from the attraction of the metal to the negative pole : and Daniell conceives that the metal is directly electrolysed by the action of the voltaic circuit .
The author found that the ends of copper wires , placed in a solution of sulphate of copper between two platina poles in the circuit , mani ?
fest electric polarity ; so that while one end is dissolving , the other is receiving deposits of copper : he also found that platina was , in like manner , susceptible of polarity , although in a much less degree than copper , when placed in similar circumstances .
With a view to determine the influence of nascent hydrogen in the voltaic reduc ?
tion of metals , he impregnated pieces of coke and of porous char ?
coal with hydrogen , by placing them , while in contact with a metal , in an acid solution , when they thus constituted the negative pole of the circuit ; and he found that the pieces thus charged readily reduced the metals of solutions into which they were immersed ; and thence infers that the hydrogen is the agent in these reductions .
From another set of experiments he concludes , that during these decompositions , water is really formed at the negative pole ; a circum ?
stance which he conceives is the chief source of the difficulties ex ?
perienced in electro-metallurgic operations when they are conducted on a large scale , but which may be avoided by a particular mode of arranging the elements of the circuit so as to ensure the uniform diffusion of the salt .
The author obtained the immediate reduction of gold , platina , palladium , copper , silver and tin from their solutions by the agency of hydrogen contained in a tube , with a piece of platinized platina in contact with the metallic salt : nitric acid and persalts of iron , on the other hand , yielded their oxygen by the influence of the same agent .
The general conclusion which he deduces from his experiments is that , when a metallic solution is subjected to voltaic action , water is decomposed , its oxygen passing in one direction , and its hydrogen in the opposite direction ; the latter element performing at the moment of its evolution at the negative pole the same part with respect to a solution of sulphate of copper , that a plate of iron or zinc would per ?
form to the same solution .

