458 Prof. Quincke .
[ Dec. 16 , I am not aware that residual charge has been observed in any liquid dielectric .
The results obtained by Professor Quincke are not easy to reconcile .
For that reason it is the more desirable that their full significance should be ascertained .
Full information is given of all the details of his experiments except on one point .
It is not stated whether , in the experiments for determining K by direct discharge of the condenser , the capacity of the connexion and key was ascertained .
It would in most ordinary arrangements of key be very appreciable in comparison with the capacity of the condenser itself .
If neglected the effect would be to a certain extent to give too low a value of K , the effect being most marked when K is large .
I have made a few preliminary experiments to determine K for colza oil with several different samples , and both with continuous charges and intermittent charges from an induction coil .
The values of K range from 2*95 to 3*11 .
Professor Quincke 's results in his .first paper are K=2*443 , K* , =2*385 , K , =3*296 .
The property of double refraction in liquids caused by electrification is sometimes cited as showing that electrification is not proportional to electromotive force .
The fact that the double refraction in a liquid under powerful electromotive forces is very small would further show that there is a close approximation to proportionality , and that the deviation from proportionality would be insensible to any electrostatic test .
Such conclusions , however , cannot be safely drawn in the case of bodies such as castor-oil , in which K\#177 ; /a2 .
In such bodies , assuming the electromagnetic theory of light , the yielding to electromotive force is much greater if the force be applied for such time as 10-4 second than when applied for 10~14 second , and it is quite possible that the law of proportionality might be untrue in the former case , but very nearly or quite true in the latter .
uAddendum to Dr. Hopkinson 's 'Not\#169 ; on Specific Inductive Capacity .
' " By Professor Quincke , For , Mem. R.S. Received December 5 , 1886 .
Notiz ubev die DielectTidtcitsconstante , von Q. Quincke .
Bei Gelegenheit einer Untersuchung der Eigenschaften dielectrischer Fliissigkeiten Wiedemann , Annalen , ' vol. 19 , 1883 , p. 707 ; vol. 28 1886 , p. 529 ) hatte ich die Dielectricitatsconstante mit der electrischen Wage oder dem hydrostatisch gemessenen Druck einer Luftblase grosser gef unden , als mit der Capacitat eines Condensators , der von Luft oder isolirender Flttssigkeit umgeben ist , and beim Umlegen .
eines Schliissels durch einen M ultiplicator entladen wird .
1886 .
] On Specific Inductive Capacity .
Die Capacitat des Schliissels und des kurzen diinnen Yerbindungs-drahtes , welcher den Schliissel mifc dem Condensator verband , wurde -aber dabei als verschwindend klein vernachlassigt .
In Folge einer brieflichen Mittheilung von Herrn Dr. John Hop-kinson habe ich in neuster Zeit die Capacitat des Schliissels and des Zuleitnngsdrahtes mit der Capacitat C des Condensators durch Multiplicator-Ausschlage bei derselben Potentialdifferenz der Beleg-ungen verglichen and dabei das Yerhaltniss\#151 ; = 0*1762 yj gefunden , also yiel grosser als ich vermuthet hat .
Zieht man von den beobachteten Multiplicator-Ausschlagen und \#171 ; n fiir den Condensator in Luft nnd in der dielectrischen Flussigkeit den Ausschlag ab , der von der Electricitat auf dem Schliissel nnd Verbindungsdraht herriihrt , so erhalt man in der That durch das Yerhaltniss der so corrigirten Ausschlage ( $i ) und ( su ) Werthe der Dielectricitatsconstante ( K ) der Flussigkeit , die fast genau mit den Messungen dex* electrischen Wage xibereinstimmen .
Die Ueberein-stimmung ist so gross , wie bei der Yerschiedenheit der benutzten Beobachtungsmethoden nur erwartet werden kann .
So ergab sich z. B. Dielectricitatsconstante mit Multipl .
Wagung .
( K ) Kp Aether 4-211 4-394 Schwefelkohlenstoff 2-508 2-623 9 ) ... ... . .
2-640 2-541 Benzol 2-359 2-360 Steinol 2 025 2 073 Heidelberg , December 1 , 1886 .
[ Note added Dec. 4th.\#151 ; Professor Quincke 's explanation sets the questions I have raised at rest .
There can be little doubt that K , K , and Kp are sensibly equal and sensibly constant .
The question what will happen to Kp and Ks if K is not constant has for the present a purely hypothetical interest.\#151 ; J. H. ] 2 2 i 2

