460 Note on Two recently compiled Calendars of Papers of the Period 1606\#151 ; 1806 in the Archives of the Royal Society .
By A. H. Chuech , I).Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received October 26 , \#151 ; Read November 5 , 1908 .
) The second section of Chapter XYI of the Statutes of the Royal Society 'commences with these words : " A catalogue of the manuscripts in the archives shall be available for reference at the rooms of the Society .
" Now a catalogue assigning a single number and title to a whole volume or collection of more or less independent documents does not afford much help to the inquirer .
However , one detailed catalogue , dealing , item by item , with a large part of the correspondence of the Society , down to the year 1740 , was compiled by Mr. W. E. Shuckard , the Librarian , and published in 1840 .
The arrangement adopted in cataloguing the documents preserved in the 48 " Letter-Books " of this series , was alphabetical for authors , and \#166 ; chronological in the sequence of the contributions of each writer .
Parallel with these " Letter-Books , " there exists a set of guard-books , 39 in number , filled mainly with early classified MS .
papers of the period 1606\#151 ; 1741 .
These documents , about 2500 in number , the production of some 800 authors , were catalogued in 1907 , a manuscript Calendar being compiled , together with an Introduction and Index Nominum , both since printed .
The titles and numbers attached to the several guard-books of this series are here given : it should be noted that the documents had been arranged mainly in accordance with their subjects , but in a few instances by authorship .
There has been given to this set the designation\#151 ; CLASSIFIED PAPERS .
VOLUME i. Arithmetic , Algebra , Geometry , Trigonometry .
ii .
Surveying , Opticks , Perspective , Sculpture , Painting , Music , Meclianicks .
iii ( 1 ) and iii ( 2 ) .
Mechanicks , Trades .
iv ( 1 ) and iv ( 2 ) .
Physiology , Meteorology , Pneumaticks .
v. Journals of the Weather .
vi .
Staticks , Hydrostaticks , Hydrmdicks , Hydrology .
vii ( 1 ) and vii ( 2 ) .
Architecture , Shipbuilding , Geography , Navigation , Voyages , Travels .
viii ( 1 ) and viii ( 2 ) .
Astronomy .
ix ( 1 ) and ix ( 2 ) .
Mineralogy , Magneticks .
x ( 1 ) , x ( 2 ) and x ( 3 ) .
Botany and Agriculture .
xi ( 1 ) and xi ( 2 ) .
Pharmacy and Chemistry .
xii ( 1 ) and xii ( 2 ) .
Anatomy and Surgery , xiii .
Monsters ; Longevity .
Calendars of Papers of the Period 1606\#151 ; 1806 .
461 VOLUME xiv ( 1 ) and xiv ( 2 ) .
Physic .
xv ( 1 ) and xv ( 2 ) .
Zoology .
xvi .
Gramar , Chronology , History , and Antiquities .
xvii .
Miscellaneous Papers .
xviii ( 1 ) and xviii ( 2 ) .
Experiments of Papin , Hawksbee , and Desaguliers .
xix .
Inquiries and Answers .
xx .
Dr. Hook 's Papers .
xxi .
Halley 's Papers .
xxii ( 1 ) and xxii ( 2 ) .
Accounts of Books .
xxiii ( 1 ) and xxiii ( 2 ) .
Inoculations .
xxiv .
Papers by Collins , Oldenburg and Hook , xxv .
Political : Trade .
Although some notion of the character and range of these " Classified Papers " may be formed from the titles given to the several books , yet a reference to the MS .
Calendar will be required should exact details of any particular paper be wanted .
Here the printed Index of Authors ' names will be found useful .
Still there are many papers which , being anonymous , cannot be reached in this way .
In this connection may be mentioned two long lists of manuscripts in various libraries ; these lists are Nos. 32 and 33 in vol. xvii .
Of authors ' names in the Index which afford no clue to the subjects of their papers are those of a number of persons concerned in the farming of sea-coals and the trade therein , both at Newcastle , and in Scotland .
These papers are Nos. 29 to 55 in vol. xxv , and belong to the period 1610\#151 ; 1633 .
They , and many others dated long before the foundation of the Royal Society , scarcely belong to the Archives , but are interesting in themselves and afford material useful in tracing the antecedents , the scope , and the development of the Society .
It is scarcely necessary to state that the majority of the documents preserved in this set of guard-books consists of papers communicated to the Society .
Of these a good many were never published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ; ' In the printed pamphlet which was distributed last year to the Fellows , some further particulars concerning the Classified Papers are given .
Attention may now be drawn to a third set of guard-books containing both letters and papers , and forming a continuation of both the earlier sets , that is , of the " Letter-Books " and of the " Classified Papers .
" The 127 volumes of this third set begin in the year 1741 and close in 1806 .
Their contents are arranged chronologically , but there are a few gaps in the sequence , while some documents have been misplaced , In the earlier papers the form of a letter was generally adopted\#151 ; even at the end of .
the period it was not unusual .
462 Prof. A. H. Church .
Calendars Papers of the [ Oct. 26 While the bulk of these guard-books is made up of papers and memoirs yet letters to and from the officers of the Society , as well as reports from special committees , are not infrequent .
Some of the acknowledgments sent by foreign members on election into the body are fortunately preserved .
Among these may be cited the letters of Pierre de Vigny , Carolus Linnams , the Abbe Jean Jacques Barthdlemy , le Comte de Saluces , Jean Bernard M.D. , and Michel Adanson ; such letters , though read at the meetings , were not printed .
Indeed the student of the documents , over 3650 in number preserved in this long series of guard-books , cannot but feel a special interest in those letters and papers which did not appear in the \#163 ; Philosophical Transactions .
' Some of these have been noted in the printed pamphlet which has been prepared to accompany and explain the MS , Calendar of this collection , while four unpublished letters , one each from Benjamin Franklin , Carolus Linnaeus , Captain James Cook , and John Hunter , have been printed in full , as typical examples .
Most of these " Letters and Papers , " being signed holographs mainly of notable peisons , afford abundant material for the study of handwriting .
But the collection is much more than a collection of autographs , for it contains the original announcements of most of the great discoveries in natural knowledge by which the latter part of the eighteenth century was marked in Great Britain , nor are noteworthy contributions from foreign philosophers wanting .
Many original illustrations , including some excellent water-colour drawings ( such as those by the Rev. John Lightfoot and Edward Edwards , A.R.A. ) , are here preserved .
As a matter of minor interest , mention may be made of the time armorial seals attached to a number of the letters ; these are noted in the MS .
Calendar .
Throughout these guard-books occur the original MSS .
of many of the Croonian and Bakerian Lectures .
Unpublished discourses of the former series include some by James Douglas , John Hunter , Samuel Foart Simmons , Edward Whitaker Grey , Sir Gilbert Blane , Sir Wm. Blizard , Mathew Baillie , Sir Everard Home , John Abernethy , and John Pearson .
There are unprmted Bakerian Lectures by Peter Woulfe , Tiberius Cavallo , and Samuel Vince .
The compiler of the MS .
Calendar , and of the printed pamphlet already mentioned , has met with many difficulties in his task .
The names of authors are not always legible in the original manuscripts ; frequently , Christian names being omitted , they had to be sought elsewhere .
Moreover , in a few cases where names were apparently identical , there might be indications that they belonged to two individuals , not one ; mistakes in the opposite sense may also have occurred .
But the value of an Index Nominum warranted the 1908 .
] Period1606\#151 ; 1806 in Arch of the Royal Society .
463 devotion of much time and trouble to rendering it more useful than it could have proved had no errors been corrected and no deficiencies supplied from sources outside the " Letters and Papers " themselves .
The construction and the mode of using the printed Index may now be briefly described .
The 127 guard-hooks wrere taken in groups of ten , or Decades , a fresh numeration of the documents being commenced with each Decade .
Thus , Decade I includes guard-books 1 to 10a ; Decade II , 10b to 20 ; Decade III , 21 to 30 , and Decade XII the guard-books 111 to 119 .
As , however , there are irregularities in the original numbering of the books , some of the Decades have to comprise supplementary volumes and appendices .
Two figures are attached to each document in the Index ; the first , a Roman numeral , refers to the Decade , the second , an Arabic numeral , points to the particular paper in that Decade .
As an example , we turn to the Index , and find , under Jenner , Edward , M.D. , the figures IX 37 .
On referring to the MS .
Calendar , and to the section dealing with Decade IX , we read , under Dr. Jenner 's name , that the document No. 37 is entitled " Of the Cuckoo " ; that it is a signed holograph of 32 pages , dated : Berkley , Feb. 20 , 1787 .
Further , we note that it is endorsed " cancelled at the desire of the Author , C. B. , Sec. R.S. " The paper itself will be found in one of the guard-books labelled " Decade IX , Nos. 23 to 49 .
" There is no need to ascertain the old number attached to the guard-book in question ( it is 82 ) , as the new label on the volume gives all necessary information ; a mark in blue pencil , on the first guard to which the document is pasted , indicates its number in the Decade .
Letters and Papers .
The approximate dates covered by the several Decades , with the number of calendared documents in each Decade , are shown in this conspectus:\#151 ; Decades .
Dates .
Documents .
I. October 1741 to October 1746 ... ... ... ... 480 II .
December 1749 " March 1755 ... ... ... ... 586 III .
March 1755 " March 1760 ... ... ... ... 426 IY .
March 1760 " November 1767 ... ... ... ... 415 Y. January 1768 " December 1772 ... ... ... ... 330 YI .
November 1773 " December 1777 ... ... ... ... 260 YII .
January 1778 " June 1782 ... ... ... ... 272 YIII .
November 1782 " June 1786 ... ... ... ... 190 IX .
June 1786 " January 1792 ... ... ... ... 221 X. February 1792 " March 1796 ... ... ... ... 150 XT .
June 1796 " December 1801 ... ... ... ... 175 XII .
December 1801 " June 1806 ... ... ... ... 146 It will be seen that there are now at the disposal of Fellows of the Society two newly-compiled Calendars of papers in the Archives , with corresponding Prof. J. S. Townsend .
[ Nov. 3 , printed Indexes of some 2150 Authors .
These cover a period of 200 years , deal with more than 6150 documents preserved in 166 guard-books , the contents of which were , until now , very little known , and , though accessible , were scarcely available for purposes of study .
The Charges on Ions in Gases , and the Effect of Water Vapour on the Motion of Negative Ions .
By Prof. John S. Townsend , F.R.S. ( Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read November 12 , 1908 .
) 1 .
In a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 80 , p. 207 , January , 1908 , a method was given for comparing the charges on ions in liquids and gases .
The first set of experiments gave results in accordance with the theory , and it was found that the charge on a positive ion in a gas was double that of a negative ion , the latter being equal to the charge on a monovalent ion in a liquid electrolyte .
The ratio of the charges obtained was 2*4-r-l-23 .
The ions were produced by secondary Rontgen rays emitted by a brass surface , and further experiments have shown that positive ions with double or single atomic* charges may be produced , the number of either kind depending on the nature of the secondary rays , which is determined by the state of the metallic surface from which they originate .
In all cases the negative ions have a single atomic charge .
Another difference between the positive and negative ions has also been found .
It will be seen from the experiments to be described that the motion of a negative ion in an electric field is influenced to a great extent by the presence of water vapour in very small quantities , there being no corresponding effect with positive ions .
2 .
In the first set .
of experiments that were made no particular attention was paid to the state of the surface at which the secondary rays were produced , and when the air-tight cover was taken off the apparatus it was found that this surface was very much tarnished .
The surface was carefully cleaned with the intention of getting a sufficient number of ions generated in the gas * For simplicity the charge on a monatomic ion in a liquid electrolyte may be termed the atomic charge .
Denoting its value in electrostatic units by e , then No = 1'225 x 1010 , N being the number of molecules in a cubic centimetre of a gas at 760 mm. pressure and temperature 15 ' C.

