83 1885 .
] The Upper Partial Tones of a Pianoforte String .
tion of iodine in carbon disulphide .
It differs from the curve due to the empty cell only in the visible and shortest wave-length portion of the invisible spectrum , as might be expected .
We have also examined plain carbon disulphide and carbon tetrachloride , but have found only small traces of absorption with these liquids .
We have found that alum solution gives a curve which differs but little from Ho. XI in the least refrangible part of the spectrum ; the alum seems to intensify the absorptive power of the water in which it is dissolved .
It has been so often stated that an alum solution cuts off all rays of low refrangibility- ( or as it is incorrectly and commonly said , all " heat rays " ) that we were not prepared for the comparatively small effect that it produces .
It may be said that , roughly , one thickness of a saturated solution of alum in water is equivalent to a double thickness of water , and not more .
Judging by the thermograms , even this would be an exaggeration of the truth ; but the use of glass in the cells , prisms , and lenses diminishes the effect as found when the total radiation is taken directly .
We may add that dyes seem only to absorb in the visible spectrum , and to have but little , if any , action in the invisible regions .
The positions which we assign to the maxima of energy in the different absorption spectra of glasses do not agree with those that have been published ; but as ours are the result , not of one set of experiments , but , in some cases , of dozens , we feel fairly confident as to their correctness .
IV .
" Observations on the Upper Partial Tones of a Pianoforte String , struck at one-eighth of its Length .
" By Alfred James Hipkins ( of John Broad wood and Sons , London ) .
Communicated by Alexander J. Ellis , F.R.S. Received January 7 , 1885 .
' This is a postscript to my paper on the harmonics of such a string , read on the 20th of November , 1884 .
According to Professor Helmholtz 's theories , the tone of a struck string is compounded of a number of simple partial tones , with the ratios of their frequencies as 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , \amp ; c. The harmonics are themselves also compound tones of which the primes or lowest partials are the partials of the original tone .
These are produced on damping the other partials by touching them at a node .
How , in my former paper , I showed that by so touching I could bring out twenty different harmonics of the string , and among these the 8th and 16th .
Young 's law , however , makes an harmonic impossible to produce , if its node is the point struck .
Hence the string being struck at one-eighth of its length , no 8th or 16th 84 The Upper Partial Tones of a Pianoforte String .
[ Jan. 15 harmonics should be audible , simply because the 8th partial would th us be damped .
But as they were heard in my experiments , it was objected that they were created by the system of stopping with a piece of felt at the exact node , which was the plan that I adopted .
I therefore endeavoured to find an independent mode of determining what partials were present without having recourse to " resonators , " against which others have raised similar objections , for if the 8th partial did not exist , there could be no 8th harmonic .
No doubt existed respecting the presence of the first four partials , and the chief interest centred about those near to the 8th .
On referring to the table in my last paper , it will be seen that , when the piano was tuned in the equal temperament , e " , b"b , e ' " were sharper than the 5th , 7th , and 10th partials would be , and f " much flatter than the 11th partial , and that g " , c ' " , d ' " were very nearly of the same pitch as the 6th , 8th , and 9th partials .
This led me to flatten or sharpen the strings of those notes on the piano to a small extent , leaving the original note untouched , and taking care to damp the unison strings of all the notes with the tuner 's " wedges , " so that only one string of each note sounded .
The following were the results of sounding the original note simultaneously with the others in succession:\#151 ; The " beats " of untouched e " with the bass c of 135*2 vibrations were very rapid , but by flattening the e " slightly , the beats became slow and very distinct .
This unmistakably proved the existence of a simple tone nearly of the pitch of this flattened e " , in the compound tone of c. That is , the beats established the existence of the 5th partial .
Similarly , on very slightly flattening g " , the beats were quite distinct , hence the existence of the 6th partial was established .
The b"\\gt ; bad to be rather more flattened , but then the beats came out clearly , establishing the 7th partial .
And on producing the 7th harmonic by touching the strings at a node , the beats were recognised as precisely the same .
The c " was flattened very slightly indeed , and while c was struck loudly , this flattened c ' " was struck lightly .
The beats were much fainter , but quite distinct and well heard by all present .
The result was that the existence of the 8th partial on the c string , struck at one-eighth of its length by a pianoforte hammer , was fully established .
The reason of its existence may be the elastic nature of the hammer , which necessarily affected the string on each side of the node .
But the important point is that , although the c string , struck at one of the nodes of the 8th partial , was untouched at any other of its nodes ( as it was touched in three of those nodes successively in the experiments of my last paper ) , the 8th partial clearly existed .
The beats also came out with the 8th harmonic when produced .
1885 .
] Observations on the Chromatology 85 In the same way , the 9th partial was proved to exist , though the beat was still faint .
The beats for the 10th partial ( flattening e ' " ) were better .
On sharpening f " , the beats of the 11th partial were just sensible .
They lasted such an extremely short time that they were recognised with difficulty .
It therefore did not seem worth while to try further .
These experiments conclusively proved the existence of the 5th , 6th , 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , and 11th partials on a pianoforte string struck with a pianoforte hammer at one-eighth of its length , and that the 7th was comparatively powerful , while the 8th and 9th , though faint , were distinct .
The node of the 7th was 0*8 inch from the striking place , and that of the 9th was 0'6 inch , so that the 9th was more affected than the 7th , but the 10th was 1*1 inch from the striking place , and hence probably was less affected than the 9th .
The curious point is that the 8th partial was most decidedly not .destroyed .
These experiments were all witnessed by Mr. A. J. Ellis , and one of Messrs. Broadwood 's principal tuners , Mr. Pryer , who altered the pitch of the strings as required .
January 22 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Observations on the Chromatology of Actiniae .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 8 , 1885 .
( Abstract ) .
In this paper I have given the results of an examination of the following Actiniae , mainly with regard to the spectroscopy of their colouring matters , viz. , Actinia mes , Bunodes cornis , Bunodes ballii , Sagartia bellis , Sagartia , Sagartia parasitica , Sagartia viduaia , Sagartia , and Anthea cereus .
The previous work of Moseley , Krukenberg , Greddes , the Hertwigs , Brandt , and Heider , is first referred to .

