Meeting of January 30 , 1902 .
353 prosecretin , which is present in relatively large amounts in the duodenal mucous membrane , gradually diminishing as we descend the intestine .
* The prosecretin is apparently slightly soluble in 0'9 per cent. NaCI solution .
It has no influence on the pancreatic secretion .
| The secretin may also be split off from its precursor by boiling this with 0'9 per cent , saline .
I The acid extract may be boiled , neutralised , and filtered without losing its activity .
The active filtrate contains some primary albumoses , which may be precipitated by addition of large excess of alcohol and ether , and have no action on the pancreas .
The alcoholic ethereal filtrate contains only a small amount of organic material , but on evaporating to dryness and taking up the residue with water , the solution obtained is as active as the original infusion .
s These results indicate that secretin is probably a body of very definite composition , and of small molecular weight .
Dr. Osborne is at present engaged in an investigation of its chemical characters and identity .
A chemical sympathy between different organs has often been | assumed , as , e.g. , between uterus and mammary glands , but we believe \ that this is the first case in which direct experimental proof has been [ afforded of such a relationship .
It is probable , however , that this I acid-duodenum-pancreas mechanism will prove to be but one of a whole I class of similar mechanisms , the study of which should considerably I increase our control of the various chemical function ?
of the body .
In the light of the results here noted , a revision of Pawlow 's expen-I ments is necessary .
In none of these latter was a possible expulsion I of acid from stomach into duodenum excluded .
We have so far failed I to obtain a secretory effect on the pancreas by stimulation of the vagi , I and are therefore rather sceptical of the alleged presence in these nerves I of secretomotor fibres to the pancreas .
We are continuing our experi-I ments on this and kindred points .
January 30 , 1902 .
Dr. W. T. BLANFORD , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; : I. " The Chemical Origins of the Lines in Nova Persei .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S.

