" Some Account of the Volcanic Eruption of Cosiguina in the Bay of Fonseca , commonly called the Coast of Conchagua , on the Western Coast of Central America .
" By Alexander Caldcleugh , Esq. , F.R.S. The particulars recorded in this narrative are derived partly from a voluminous collection of official reports transmitted from the authorities in various towns to the government of Central America , and partly from the information of intelligent eye-witnesses of the phenomena .
The eruption occurred on the 19th of January , 1835 , and was preceded by a slight noise , accompanied with a column of smoke issuing from the mountain , and increasing till it took the form of a large and dense cloud , which , when viewed from a distance often leagues to the southward , appeared like an immense plume of white feathers , rising with considerable velocity and expanding in every direction .
Its colour was , at first , of the most brilliant white ; but it gradually became tinged with grey ; then passed into yellow ; and finally assumed a beautiful crimson hue .
In the course of the following days several shocks of an earthquake were felt , the last of which were most terrific .
On the morning of the 22nd , the sun had risen in brightness ; but a line of intense darkness denoted the pre ?
sense of the same cloud which had before presented such remarkable appearances , and which , extending with great rapidity , soon obscured the light of day ; so that in the course of half an hour the darkness equalled in intensity that of the most clouded night : per ?
sons touched without seeing one another ; the cattle hurried back to their folds ; and the fowls went to roost , as on the approach of night .
This atmospheric darkness continued with scarcely any di ?
minution for three days ; during the whole of which time there fell a fine impalpable dust , covering the ground at St. Antonio to the depth of two inches and a half , and consisting of three layers of different shades of grey colour : and for ten or twelve succeeding days the sky exhibited a dim and murky light .
At Nacaome , to the northward of the volcano , the same degree of darkness was experienced , and the deposit of ashes was from four to five inches in depth , and exhaled a fetid sulphureous odour , which penetrated through every interstice in the buildings .
The complete obscurity 2e was only occasionally broken by the lightning , which flashed in every direction , while the air was rent with loud and reiterated explosions like the discharges of artillery , which accompanied each eruption of volcanic matter , and conspired to strike the deepest terror , and to spread among the inhabitants a universal panic that the day of judge ?
meant was arrived .
On the 24th the atmosphere became ciearer , and the houseswere found covered to the depth of eight inches with ashes , in which many small birds were found suffocated .
Deer and other wild animals flew to the town for refuge , and the banks of the neigh ?
bouring streams were strewed with dead fish .
In Segovia , and as for as eight leagues from the volcano , the showers of black sand were so abundant as to destroy thousands of cattle ; and many were subsequently found whose bodies exhibited one mass of scorched flesh .
Within the Bay of Fonseca , and two miles from the volcano , it is stated that two islands , from two to three hundred yards in diameter , were thrown up , probably from the deposit of masses of scoriae on previously existing shoals .
It was resolved unanimously : ?
" That the thanks of this Society be given to their Secretary Peter Mark Roget , Doctor of Medicine , for the zeal and ability which he has uniformly displayed , and the many valuable services he has rendered in promoting its objects .
"

