The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Structure and Development of Bone .
" By John Tomes , F.R.S. , Surgeon Dentist to the Middlesex Hospital , and Campbell De Morgan , Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital .
Received April 22 , 1852 .
In this communication , the authors , after having briefly noticed the intimate structure of perfect bone as commonly recognised , proceed to the description of certain points connected with its structure and development , which they believe to have been hitherto entirely overlooked or only partially recognised .
These points have been arranged under the following heads:1 .
The Haversian and other canals of bone .
2 .
The laminae of bone .
3 .
The lacune .
4 .
Haversian systems .
5 .
Ossified cartilrage of joints .
6 .
Ossified cells .
7 .
Bone tissue .
S. Development of bone in temporary cartilage .
9 .
Growth of bone .
1 .
Haversian and other canals of bone.-IBesides the Haversian canals , the authors have pointed out that there are found in bone sections spaces of an entirely different character , irregular in shape , and with an irregular festooned margin .
Their margins correspond in outline with those of one or more Haversian systems , and precede in many instances the formation of those systems .
These spaces produced by absorption are called by the authors Haversian spaces .
Unlike the Haversian canals which are surrounded by their own laminse , these spaces are bounded by parts of several systems which have been encroached on by the process of absorption .
In examining various sections , or different parts of the same section , these spaces will be found in different states of partial or entire occupation by Haversian systems .
They are found in the bone of subjects of all ages .
The fact of removal of old tissue and replacement by new , which has been hitherto only assumed , is thus demonstrated .
2 .
Laminwe of bone.-Lamination is shown to be a constant character of mammalian bone ; each lamina , when highly developed , is found to consist of a dark granular , and of a transparent part .
The external margin of the outermost lamina of each Haversian system is irregularly indented and corresponds with the outline of a pre-existing Haversian space ; while its internal margin and all the succeeding laminne are regular in outline .
The lamini are found as a general rule to surround their canal , which is usually placed in the centre of them .
But sometimes : the canals are eccentric , in which case either the lamine on one side , though still surrounding the canal , are broader , or there are more developed on one side than on the other .
The lamina next to the perfected Haversian canal however is always complete , and is often composed of a transparent structureless tissue , like that which encircles the Haversian canals of the stag 's antler at the time of shedding .
The presence of interstitial Iamine is readily accounted for ; they are in fact the remains of pre-existing Haversian systems , or circumr ferential laminae , parts of which have been removed by absorption .
The circumferential laminix are not so constantly present as is generally described , and rarely entirely surround the shaft of a long bone .
When present , they seem to indicate that the bone is nearly stationary in its .
growth .
They are frequently intersected by numerous Haversian spaces and systems , so as at length to assume the characters of interstitial lamninae .
3 .
Lacune .
In young bone the lacunm are more abundant , larger , and have more numerous canaliculi ; or they may exist without canaliculi , or the canaliculi and great part of the lacunae themselves may be filled up with s , olid mattcr , so as to leave only a small space in the centre of the lattter The lacuna and cartaliculi are shown to have distifct walk .
In the circumferential laminae are frequently found elongated tubes which the authors regard as modifications of lacune ; they run obliquely across the laminas , generally in bundles .
They frequently form communications with the canaliculi .
In transverse section they are seen to have proper walls .
4 .
Haversian systems..-'The authors have here pointed out that the anastomosis of thecanaliculi of adjoining systems is rare in newlydeveloped systems , but is very common in those of greater age .
It has been seen too that it not unfrequently happens that a series of Haversian systems is contained within a common series of surrounding laminie .
Sometimes the Haversian systems are rendered quite solid by the narrowing of the Haversian canal and ultimate development of a mere lacuna in the centre of the system .
The more recently developed Haversian systems which occupy Haversian spaces are seen to be darker in colour than the older ones , from the greater abundance of canaliculi , and the more general granularity of the tissue .
5 .
Ossified articular cartilage.-This structure the authors have found in all the joints which they have examined , in the lower jaw , amongst others , where Kolliker failed to detect it .
Towards the bone the tissue becomes in general granular and of a brownish colour , and usually there is a distinct line of demarcation between the bone and the ossified cartilage ; but sometimes they graduate insensibly the one into the other .
Towards the articular surface the margin is even and regular ; but towards the bone it is deeply indented , from the bone advancing into it by rounded projections .
Hence the articular cartilage varies in thickness .
The authors believe that this , so far from being an indication of imperfect development , is in reality an evidence of design , and intended to give an uniform and unyielding surface for the cartilage to rest upon .
6 .
Ossified cells. .
In the bones of aged people it is frequently observed that they become light and spongy , and after maceration contain a white powder in the cancellated structure .
This powder the authors have found to be composed mainly of ossified nucleated cells , either ( letached or held together in masses .
They are spherical , and contain a dark granular nucleus , which is surrounded by a thick transparent wall .
If portions of the cancelli be taken , they will be found to have similar cells adherent to their surfaces , or to those of the Haversian canals , with here and there canaliculi of adjoining lacunue shooting into them , while the nuclei have themselves assumed the form of lacunae .
Similar cells may be found imbedded in parts of most sections of bone .
In order to see this condition clearly , it is desirable that the sections and the loose cells should be mounted in Canada balsam .
7 .
Bone tissue.-The views generally entertained with regard to the ultimate structure of bone tissue are , the older one , that it consists of an aggregation of granules in a transparent matrix ; and that which has been more recently put forward by Dr. Sharpey , that in many cases it is composed of ossified decussating fibres .
The authors have satisfied themselves that the ultimate structure of bone tissue 'is composedof 6minute granules or granular bodies imbedded in a clear or subgranular matrix ; and that the appearance of fibres ' is due in many cases to the mode ' of illumination .
By transmitted light passing through them in the long axis( of the microscope the preparations show a:granular or a structureless appearance , or : alternations of a granular and structureless part .
But under an 'oblique light passing from one side only an appearance of minute flat fibres presents itself .
This takes place even ' in the isolated .
cells of old bone , or in developing young bone .
'This appearance is most marked over the lacunae and canaliculi .
But if a part which thus appears fibrous be viewed under a light passing obliquely from all sides , as is effected by a Gillett 's achromatic condenser , the fibres disappear , and we see only a granular appearance , with some tendency to arrangement in the granules .
The fibrous appearance is in fact-due to the shadows cast from the less transparent parts when the light , passes obliquely , just as in the navicula the dots are replaced by lines .
In thin sections torn from bone which has been macerated in acid , a reticulated appearance , similar to that figured by .
Dr. Sharpey , may be seen , only however when the object is slightly out of focus , or the light oblique and from one side.:By careful adjustment of the object-glass and of the illuminating apparatus , this appearance may be shown to depend on the presence of the canaliculi .
8 and 9 .
Development and growth of bone .
-The early condition of cartilage , and the changes which 'take place in it and in the cartilage cell before ossification , are particularly described ; and also the mode by which they multiply and arrange themselves by segmentation , so that a long column or cluster of cells represents an original cell , the walls of which ' have coalesced with the surrounding hyaline tissue .
The cells at the same time enlarge individually as they approach the point where ossification is going on , encroaching on the hyaline substance so as in many cases only to leave a fine line of intercolumnaro tissue , or to cause it to disappear altogetr her .
Thenucleus at the same time enlarges considerably , while the cell wall becomes thickened internally , until in the end it reaches the nucleus , which then be.comes imbedded in firm tissue .
Other changes now take place : either several cells are thrown into one cavity by the absorption of their contigiuous walls , leaving the nuclei free in the common cavity ; or the nucleus continues to occupy its parent cell , and sends off small processes , which extend outwards to the cell wall .
At this stage the nucleus may be sometimes detached with the processes entire , but generally it is adherent , and may be seen to have become a lacuna with a central cavity and canaliculi ; in addition to which a nucleus may be seen ' to occupy its interior ; it has in fact become a nucleated cell , designated by the authors " granular cell .
" The entire cell may now be detached from the intercolumnar tissue in which it lies .
Tle granular condition of the intercolumnar tissue andof the cell itself often renders the observation of 'this stage very difficult ; but in riikety bone it is very readily shown , as in this disease there is a tendency for the cells to assume their permanent form before the deposit of bone-earth in any considerable quantity .
To cells thus composed of an outer thickened cell wall and an inner granular cell ( the cartilage nucleus of authors ) which contains within it a nucleus ( the nucleolus of writers ) , which stands in the relation of a nucleus to the future lacuna , the authors have given the name of " 'lacunal cells , " while the term granular cell has been applied to that which is usually designated the nucleus .
In transverse sections of bone immediately below the line of ossification , the lacunal cells may be seen presenting different characters under different circumstances .
Where two cells come into contact , the processes or canaliculi may be seen extending across from one to the other ; but where the cell is surrounded by intercolumnar tissue , the processes are short and do not extend beyond the walls of their own cell ; or if cells join at one point while the renmainder is inverted with intercolumnar tissue , the canaliculi will anastomose at the point of junction ; while elsewhere they are few , short , and'do not extend beyond the cell .
In the further process of development the cells and intercolumnar tissue become fused together so as no longer to be recognised as distinct parts ; and the granular cell appears as a perfect lacuna with a large cavity and numerous large canaliculi .
To bone in this condition the term primary bone has been applied .
It speedily however undergoes a change preparatory to the formation of the more permanent secondary bone .
Here and there in the line of ossification portions are removed by absorption , the spaces left being filled with small somewhat granular cells lying in a transparent blastema , through the agency of which the absorption has been in all probability effected .
It would appear as though the cells grew at the expense of the surrounding tissue .
These spaces correspond entirely to the Haversian spaces before described ; and in them the secondary bone is in the first instance formed .
The process of formation of secondary bone appears to be everywhere essentially the same , whether in the absorbed spaces , or on the surfaces , or in the membranes of the foetal cranium , except that in the two latter cases there is a pre-existing fibrous tissue , which , before ossification begins , undergoes a change similar to that which occurs in the bone itself and is converted into a cellular mass .
So that at the border where ossification is advancing there is only an arrangement of cells ; while a little beyond that point the cells have fibrous tissue : abundantly mixed up with them ; and there is in fact a resemblance to fibrous tissue in an early state of formation .
The formation of perfect bone is effected by means of cells , perhaps identical with those which are found replacing the previous tissue , but at all events undistinguishable from them by any microscopical characters .
To these cells , which take part in the formation of bone , the authors have given the name o6f " osteal cells .
" In the case of laminated bone they arrange themselves side by side , and , together with the transparent blastema in which they lie , become impregnated with ossific matter , and pernma nently fused with the bone tissue with which they lie in contact .
By the linear arrangement of these .
osteal cells lamination is produced .
In the case of new laminated bone the cells are simply ossifiedwithout arrangement .
Lying amongst the osteal cells will be seen some which have accumulated around them a quantity of tissue which forms a thick investment to them ; they then become granular , and take on in every respect the characters of a lacunal cell .
These are found deposited at intervals along the line of ossification and becoming blended with the general mass ; the granular cell remaining as a lacuna , and sending out processes amongst the cells in all directions .
In old bone the cell character is in great part lost by a general blending of the constituents , but may in many specimens be still here and there recognised .
Many instances are given in support of the conclusion that absorption of bone and of dental tissue is effected directly through the influence of cells , but these are necessarily excluded from this abstract ; indeed it is impossible to give any other than a very imperfect account of the contents of the paper within the prescribed limits , especially as the numerous illustrations which accompany the paper cannot be made use of .

