A paper was read , entitled " Researches into the Structure of the Spinal Cord .
" By Jacob Lockhart Clarke , Esq. Communicated by Samuel Solly , Esq. , F.R.S. Received October 15 , 1850 .
The author having undertaken a series of observations with the view of determining , if possible , the relations which appear to subsist between the spinal nerves and the respiratory nervous centres , was led into a more extended inquiry than he at first contemplated , the results of which are communicated in this paper .
After stating that the observations were made , by means of a microscope of the best construction , upon many thousand preparations of the spinal cord of Man , of the Calf , Sheep , Pig , Dog , Cat , Rabbit , Guinea-pig and Frog , he describes the methods adopted in making these preparations .
The following are the results of his observations .
At the lower extremity of the spinal cord , the posterior gray substance consists of a single mass , formed by the coalescence of the two posterior horns , and consequently the gelatinous substance extends across the middle line .
The anterior gray substance , however , is divided by the anterior columns into two distinct horns , which curve inwards and taper to a rounded point .
The spinal canal is large and nearer the anterior surface of the cord .
The nerve-vesicles are scattered irregularly through the gray substance .
The fibres of the gray substance are of the tubular kind , and of small average diameter .
There are two classes with regard to direction , transverse and longitudinal .
Of the transverse , there ar3 two orders , the antero-posterior and latero-transverse .
The antero-posterior are continuous with the posterior roots of the nerves , and probably with the anterior roots .
The latero-transverse stretch between the opposite sides of the gray substance , forming its transverse commissure .
Longitudinal Fibres.-Those of the gelatinous substance , have the characters of minute tubular fibres , presenting dark outlines and frequent varicosities .
Their average diameter is the 2-00th of an inch .
They have no nuclei as generally stated , and have no resemblance to the sympathetic fibres or caudate processes .
These fibres are found through the rest of the gray substance , but in smaller numbers ; immediately below the gelatinous substance , however , they form a remarkably dense band .
Changes in the form of the gray substance are observed on examining the cord from below upwards .
The posterior mass is gradually divided into two , and the gelatinous substance is interrupted in the middle line .
Two vesicular masses gradually appear at the sides of the spinal canal , traversed by fibres from the posterior nerves , and from the transverse commissure .
The anterior horns also undergo certain changes , become club-shaped in the lumbar region , and contain large groups of caudate vesicles .
In the middle of the dorsal region the posterior horns have again coalesced , and the gelatinous substance again crosses the middle line .
The anterior horns are straight and narrow , and their vesicles are scattered through them irregularly .
In the cervical enlargement the posterior gray substance has become again divided to its greatest extent into two horns , and the gelatinous substance is again interrupted in the middle .
The two vesicular masses from the sides of the spinal canal are here , as in the lumbar enlargement , included in the posterior horns .
Here also , and in the lumbar enlargement , the anterior horns are nearly similar in appearance .
The nucleus of vesicular substance , in which the spinal accessory nerve may be seen to arise , has been traced by the author as low down in the cord as the upper part of the lumbar enlargement .
The grayish structure immediately surrounding the spinal canal , consists chiefly of fibro-cellular tissue , and is not to be regarded as a commissure , as maintained by Stilling and Foville .
The spinal canal , as stated by the former observer , extends through the whole length of the cord .
The vesicles of the cord are found chiefly in the anterior horns , as usually stated , but occur also in the dark masses situated in the dorsal region at the sides of the spinal canal ; and also more sparingly in the posterior horns as far as the gelatinous substance .
The author has never been able to make out satisfactorily in mammalia , any connection between the nerve-vesicles and the tubular nerves , nor between the latter and the caudate processes .
The blood-vessels of the cord enter through the anterior and posterior median fissures , through the smaller fissures in the white columns , and at the roots of the nerves .
They form a beautiful network of loops along the whole periphery of the gray substance .
Of the White Columns of the Cord.-The anterior columns have no proper transverse commissural fibres , but are crossed horizontally but chiefly obliquely , by tubular nerve-fibres and blood-vessels , which proceed from the gray substance on each side and decussate in front of the spinal canal : nor are the posterior white columns connected by any commissural fibres , the posterior fissure reaching down to the gray substance .
Origin of the Spinal Nerves.-The posterior roots are attached exclusively to the posterior columns .
Their fibrils generally are finer than those of the anterior roots .
The anterior roots are attached to the anterior parts of the antero lateral columns , which they traverse horizontally in straight bundles , till they reach the anterior horns , in which they break up and form a complicated network .
The author has not yet been able to determine whether any of the fibres of the spinal nerves ascend with the longitudinal white columns .

