108 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Aromatic Cyanates .
[ Nov. 24 , III .
" On the Aromatic Cyanates .
" By A. W. Hofmann , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 30 , 1870 .
The only member of this class which has hitherto been studied is the phenylic cyanate .
About twenty years ago I discovered this compound among the products of a very complex reaction which took place on submitting to destructive distillation a substance which I then named ox-amelanil or melanoximide* , but which at the present time would be con- ' sidered as oxalyldiphenylguanidine .
The phenylic cyanate , which I then called anilocyanic acid , is formed only in very small quantity ; I never had more than a few grammes of the substance in my possession ; and it was only from the sharply defined properties of the body that I was enabled to describe it correctly .
Eight years later I again met with this compound .
When I found that diphenylsulphourea , by treatment with anhydrous phosphoric acid , split up into aniline and phenylic mustard-oil , the idea naturally suggested itself to utilize this reaction for the preparation of phenylic cyanate , by distilling normal diphenyl urea with anhydrous phosphoric acidf .
In fact , phenylic cyanate can be prepared in this way .
On heating dry diphenylcarbamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid , the frightful odour of the cyanate was immediately developed ; and on distilling the mixture of the two bodies , the phenylic cyanate came over in colourless drops .
When , however , the experiment was made on a somewhat larger scale , the product was so small that I was compelled to consider this process more as a mode of formation of the substance than as a method for its preparation .
Lately my experiments on the mustard-oils led me to a simple process for the preparation of the phenylic cyanate and its homologues .
In a former paper J I drew attention to the facility with which the mustard-oils combine with a molecule of alcohol .
When phenylic mustard-oil is heated for a considerable time with alcohol , it yields the beautifully crystalline half sulphuretted phenylurethane , which , when distilled alone , or , still better , with phosphoric anhydride , again splits into its components alcohol and phenylic mustard-oil .
Taking into consideration the result of this experiment , ought we not to obtain the phenylic cyanate on distilling phenylurethane with phosphoric acid 1 Phenyl Series .
Phenylurethane.\#151 ; The phenylurethane is known ; I had already obtain , ed it in the above-mentioned researcn on the phenylie cyanate .
When this substance was treated with methyl , ethyl , or amyl alcohol , the phenylurethane of the methyl , ethyl , or amyl series was obtained S. Since then * Hofmann , Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. Ixxiv .
p. 9 .
t Hofmann , Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. ix .
p. 275 .
| Hofmann , Berichte Deutsch .
Chem. Gtesell .
Jahrg .
ii .
S. 116 .
S Hofmann , Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. lxxiv .
p. 16 .
1870 .
] Dr* A. W. Hofmann on the Aromatic Cyanates .
the phenylurethane of the ethyl series , phenylcarbaminic ether , has been carefully investigated by Messrs. Wilm and Wischin* , who obtained it by the action of chlorocarbonic ether upon aniline .
I have repeated the experiment of Messrs. Wilm and Wischin , and can fully confirm their results .
The body prepared in this manner is identical with that which I formerly obtained .
The melting-point of the substance , after repeated crystallization , was found to be 51 ' ; Messrs. Wilm and Wischin gave 51'*5-52 ' .
The boiling-point was about 237 ' , the same as that found by those gentlemen .
Messrs. Wilm and Wischin state that the phenylcarbaminic ether ( which they call carbauilidic ether ) is volatile without decomposition .
I find that although the greater portion escapes decomposition when distilled , yet part of it splits up into phenylic cyanate and alcohol , C9 Hue NOa= C7 H5 NO + C2 fl6 O , which is perfectly in accordance with what I expected from the study of the half-sulphuretted phenylurethane .
On distillation , the well-known and familiar odour of the phenylic cyanate is immediately developed ; and , in fact , Messrs. Wilm and Wischin must also have observed it ; for they say of the carbanilidic ether , " the vapour of this body excites a copious flow of tears , but when diffused has a faint resemblance to bitter almond-oil .
" What Messrs. Wilm and Wischin smelt was the phenylic cyanate .
If the mixture of phenylic cyanate and alcohol , obtained along with a large quantity of phenylurethane by the distillation of the latter , be allowed to stand for twenty-four hours , the odour of the cyanate will have disappeared entirely ; the cyanate and alcohol have recombined with formation of phenylurethane .
After these results of the behaviour of phenylurethane under the influence of heat , there could be no doubt that phenylic cyanate would be obtained by the employment of phosphoric anhydride .
Experiment has fully confirmed this expectation .
Phenylic Gyanate.\#151 ; When phenylurethane is heated with anhydrous phosphoric acid , a considerable quantity of a colourless liquid distils over of great refractive power , having a pungent odour , and attacking the eyes strongly .
This liquid is phenylic cyanate , which only requires redistilla-tipn to be obtained pure .
As in all operations in the aromatic series in which phosphoric anhydride takes part , the quantity obtained is by no means that required by theory , although it approaches it .
For more than one reason I had desired to discover a method for the preparation of the phenylic cyanate .
I was now enabled to determine more accurately the boiling-point of the body ; it is 163 ' .
In my former determination , for which only a few grammes were available , I had found it to be 178 ' .
The specific gravity of the phenylic cyanate at 15 ' is 1*092 .
Its vapour-# Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxlvii .
p. i57 .
VOL. XIX .
K Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Cyanates .
[ Nov. 24 , density was determined in aniline vapour .
The numbers obtained confirmed the formula already established by analysis .
c , h , no=c'hJn .
Theory .
Expt. ' Specific gravity of vapour compared with hydrogen 59*50 58*90 " " , , compared with air ... ... . .
4*13 4*09 With respect to the behaviour of the body with other substances , I can refer to my former paper .
With water it yields carbonic acid and diphenylcarbamide ; in contact with alcohol the urethane is reproduced ; it combines immediately with ammonia and its derivatives , forming an inconceivable number of ureas .
But , besides other combinations , it exhibits a remarkable reaction .
I may mention that the possession of a considerable quantity of phenylic cyanate has given me an opportunity of again observing the behaviour of this body towards triethylphosphine , formerly described* .
If a glass rod , moistened with the phosphorus base , be dipped into a considerable quantity of phenylic cyanate , in a few moments it becomes very hot , and the whole solidifies to a mass of beautiful crystals .
The principal product formed in this reaction is a body insoluble in water , and not very soluble in boiling alcohol , from which it crystallizes on cooling in fine prisms , which in an analysis formerly published gave numbers corresponding to cyanurate of phenyl , and may therefore be regarded as phenylic cyanurate .
I must , however , leave it an open question , whether this substance is identical with the phenylic cyanurates , obtained the one by the action of chloride of cyanogen on phenol f , the other from triphenylmelamine J. Now that the necessary material can be obtained , there is no difficulty in a complete investigation of this body , as well as the by-products formed by the reaction in question .
We may here find room for some observations on the homologues of the phenylic cyanurate .
Tolyl Series .
Tolylurethane.\#151 ; Chlorocarbonic ether acts with the greatest violence on toluidine , so that it is advisable to conduct the reaction in the presence oj ether .
c ?
h !
} 0+2 [ c , h ; } n]=co ( C ' h'\lt ; $\#163 ; } '+1hi } N\gt ; HC1The ethereal solution , filtered from the toluidine hydrochlorate , on evaporation leaves the tolylurethane as an aromatic oil , which , when cooled by a * Hofmann , Ann. Chem. Pharm. Suppl. vol. i. p. 57 .
t Hofmann , Beriehte Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Jahrg .
iii .
S. 275 .
X Hofmann , Berichte Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Jahrg .
iii .
S. 274 .
Ill 1870 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Aromatic Cyanates .
freezing-mixture , solidifies with difficulty , and , as a rule , only after standing some time .
Toly lure thane is insoluble in water , but dissolves with ease in alcohol and ether , and crystallizes from the former in fine long prisms , which melt at 32 ' .
Tolylic cyanate.\#151 ; When distilled alone , the tolylurethane behaves like phenylurethane , the greater part passing over undecomposed , whilst a small portion is resolved into toluylic cyanate and alcohol .
CO ( C7H7)HNJ 0 CO c " h , }n+C'H.}o .
When the distillation is performed in the presence of phosphoric anhydride , the alcohol is fixed , and the tolylic cyanate passes over in a nearly pure state .
It only requires rectification to be perfectly pure .
Tolylic cyanate is a colourless liquid , boiling at 185 ' , of high refractive power , and a powerful odour exciting a copious flow of tears .
A vapour-density determination in aniline vapour gave the following results:\#151 ; Theory .
Expt. Specific gravity of vapour compared with hy- ! .
drogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
66-5 64*6 65*7 Specific gravity of vapour compared with air 4'61 4'48 4*56 Tolylic cyanate behaves towards water and ammonia and their derivatives like phenylic cyanate .
On treatment with water ditolylurea is produced with evolution of carbonic acid ; with the alcohols it forms the corresponding urethanes , and with ammonia and the amines it yields a group of compound ureas .
Triethylphosphine produces the same change as in the phenyl-compound ; it takes place , however , somewhat more slowly .
The very beautiful crystalline compound thus formed I hope soon to he able to investigate .
Xylyl Series .
The experiments were precisely similar to those in the phenyl and tolvl series .
The reaction with xylidine is , however , somewhat more sluggish than with aniline and toluidine .
Xylylurethane , C^NO.^.Wjo .
crystallizes in fine needles , which melt at 58 ' .
Xylylic cyanate , C.H\#187 ; NO=c\#153 ; }N , is a colourless , highly refractive liquid of feeble odour , and attacking the eyes but slightly .
The boiling-point is about 200 ' .
Its vapour-density was taken in aniline vapour .
Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the Aromatic Cyanates .
[ Nov. Theory .
Expt. Specific gravity of vapour compared with hydrogen ... .
73*50 74*69 , , " " compared with air ... ... ... ... ... 5*10 5*18 Xylylic cyanate exhibits the same reactions as those which are so prominent in the corresponding members of the phenyl and tolyl series , but somewhat weaker .
The combinations which take place almost immediately in the case of phenylic and tolylic cyanates often require days with the xylylic cyanate .
Even in the presence of triethylphosphine xylylic cyanate solidifies but slowly .
Naphthyl Series .
Naphthylurethane.\#151 ; The formation of this analogue of urethane was effected by the action of chlorocarbonic ether on naphthylamine .
It is insoluble in water , more soluble in alcohol , and crystallizes from the latter in needles which melt at 79 ' .
Its composition is expressed by the formula CI3 H13 No CO(C10H , )HNja Naphthylic cyanate.\#151 ; A short notice of this compound has already appeared .
When I had found that diphenylcarbamide gave phenylic cyanate by distillation with phosphoric anhydride , Mr. Vincent Hall* made the corresponding experiment in the naphthyl series , but only obtained a very small quantity of the naphthyl compound .
The formation of the naphthylic cyanate by this method was , however , established .
The naphthylic cyanate is obtained in considerable quantity by the distillation of naphthylurethane with phosphoric anhydride .
It is a colourless , not very mobile fluid , whose boiling-point is about 269'-270 ' .
Its vapour has the pungent odour which is peculiar to the cyanates , but at the ordinary temperature naphthylic cyanate is almost odourless .
Its composition is expressed by the formula CnH , NO=\#153 ; HjN .
I have , moreover , satisfied myself of its correctness by the reactions of the body .
On considering its behaviour with water and alcohol , and their derivatives , there can be no doubt as to the nature of the compound .
The facility with which these reactions take place with the naphthyl compound is remarkable .
The naphthylic cyanate acts with incomparably greater quickness and precision than the analogous xylyl-compound ; this is particularly shown in the action of triethylphosphine , which causes the cyanate of the naphthyl series to solidify almost instantaneously .
I have to give my best thanks to Mr. F. Hobrecker for his efficient assistance in the prosecution of the above research .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. ix .
p. 365 .

