]\gt ; [ 897 ] XXIII .
on the Attraction of Ellipsoids for certain of Force other than the E. J. ROUTH , D. Sc. , F.R. Received May ll , \mdash ; Read June 13 , 1895 .
CONTENTS .
PKGE Arts .
1-7 .
Remarks and some special cases . . . . .
897 Arts .
8-11 .
Potential of a thin homogeneous homoeoid at an internal and external point when the force varies as the inverse power of the distance , being an eveu integer .
The investigation divides itself into two cases according as is The potential is completely integrated in one case and reduced to a single integral in the other . . . . . . . . . .
904 Arts .
12-26 .
Potential of a thin heferogeneous homoeoid whose density is for the same law of force .
The investigation again divides itself into an integrable case and one which contains an integral .
The potential in each case is expressed in a series with a finite number of terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
909 Arts .
27-30 .
Potential of a solid homogeneous ellipsoid and heterogeneous ellipsoid at an internal point for the same law of force . . . . . . . . .
922 Arts .
31-39 .
Poteutial of a solid ellipsoid at an external point when the strata are similar ellipsoids .
Consideration of the special cases in which the law of force is the inverse fourth , sixth , eighth , and tenth powers of the distance . . . . . . . .
925 Art .
40 .
Potential for the inverse square . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
934 Aris .
41-48 .
Potentials of a homoeoid and of a sohd ellipsoid , both when homogeneous heterogeneous , and the index of the law of force is a negative odd integer . . .
935 Arts .
49-54 .
Potentials of a thin homogeneous homoeoid when ( 1 ) the law of force is the inverse cube , when the law the inverse and is an odd integer 940 Arts .
55-57 .
Discussion of a case in which the level snrfaces of a disc are confocals 947 1 .
To find the potential at an internal point of a thin ellipsoidal shell bounded by similar concentric ellipsoids , the law of force being the inverse power of the distance .
Let be the coordinates of the direction cosines of a radius vector drawn from to any point on the surface ; and let .
Let be the semi-axes of the elipsoids , and their squared reciprocals .
Then from the equation of the ellipsoid ( 1 ) .
7 .
DR. E. J. ROUTH ON ] ] ATTRACTION OF ELLIPSOIDS FOR For the sake of brevity we shall put ( 2 ) Thus is the semi-diameter parallel to the ra , dius vector is a linear function such that represents a plane through the centre diametral to PQ , and is the equation of the ellipsoid .
The quadratic may therefore be written in either of the forms ( 3 ) where is the reciprocal of .
The roots have opposite signs and . . . . .
( 4 ) .
Taking together the two elements of the shell enclosed by an elementary cone whose vertex is the attracted point and whose solid angle is , the potential 01 the whole shell is evidently ( 5 ) , where have their proper signs as given by the standard quadratic ( 3 ) , being the positive root and the n.egative root .
Also are the densities of the shel ] at the extremities of the chord through P. It is evident that if we integrate all round the point every element of the surface is taken twice over .
We must therefore the result given by ( 5 ) .
2 .
The values of depend on the kind of shell under consideration .
Supposing that the shell is a thin homoeoid , we differentiate the quadratic ( 1 ) on the supposition that and are constant .
We thus find Using the relations ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , it immediately follows that ( 6 ) : These values of may easily be verified by a short geometrical proof .
CERTAIN LAWS FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
901 by using the standard forms ( 4 ) .
Integrating and omitting the constant , .
: , we have .
From this we easily find , by differentiating with regard to , that the force at internal point resolved parallel to is By IvoRY'S theorem it immediately follows that the force at an external point is X ' These values of X , X ' agree with those given by TOWNSEND in the memoir already referred to .
We may deduce from the values of X ' , the potentia ] at any external point .
Since we have Hence X ' It follows by an easy integration that the of a homogeneous solid ellipsoid at an externed point for the lalv of the inverse fourth is V ' We notice that the potential is constant if is constant ; the level surfaces are Let be the perpendicular from the centre on a tangen ' plane to a confocal , then .
The force normaI to the Ilfocal is therefore where are the semi-axes of the confocal and .
For points on the same confoc.al the normal force is therefore proportional to the perpendicutar on the tangent The law of the inverse fourth power derives some importance from a theorem of JELLETT'S .
JELLETT showed that , if be the potential when the law of force the inverse power of the distance , By using this theorem , we may deduce the potential for any inverse integral power greater than the square , when the potential for the two laws of the inverse distance and the inverse fourth power are completely known .
This theorem was communicated to the British Association at its meeting in Dublin in 1857 , and briefly alluded to , rather explained , in the report at page 3 .
But TOWNSEND , in the ' Quarterly Journal , ' vol. 16 , 1879 , has called attention to the theorem and used it to find the potentials of circular rings and plaes , \amp ; c. , for various laws of force .
In this way the potential , when the force varies as the sixth power , may be derived from the potential for the inverse fourth , but as some of these potentials have the function we have called in the denominator , while others have the still more complicated function in the same position , the labour will be found to become very great as we proceed to higher laws of force .
We notice that the potentials of a homogeneous thin homoeoid , at both external and internal points , have been expressed as algebraic functions of the coordinates the abtracted point .
It follows from theorem that these for all even higher laws of force can also be expressed free from all signs of integration .
similar argument will apply to several other cases .
TOWNSEND also observes that JELLETT'S theorem remains true when the number of variables is extended beyond three .
Thus , if . .
we find by simple differentiation that .
6 .
Suppose the ellipsoidal shell to be homogeneous the force to vary as the inverse sixth power of the distance .
We then have , and the potential at any internal point is by equation ( 8 ) CERTAIN LAWS FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
Using bhe formulae ( 4 ) this becomes Writing , as usual , and putting for in turn , these integrals follow a once ; the terms with the products , mn , being obviously zero .
We therefore have The potential at an external point is therefOre where are the semi-axes of the confocal through the attracted point , , and is the perpendicular on the tangent plane at the attracted point .
The potential of a solid homogeneous ellipsoid at an internal point for the inverse sixth power is easily seen to be The potential at an external point is given later .
7 .
Another interesting case is when the index of the law of force is zero or negative .
Taking so that the force is independent of the distance , we see from equation ( 8 ) that the potential of a homogeneous thin homoeoid at an internal point is Substituting ( exactly as in the last article ) from the standard forms ( 4 ) we see at once that the potential takes the form where , B. are conslants which depend on the axes of ths ellipsoid .
In the same way when , or the force varies as the square of the distance , we find that is a quartic function of the coordinates of the attracted point containing only even powers .
8 .
To find the potential of thin homogeneous homceoid internal point when the force varies as even inverse power of the distance greater than the Putting .
and using the formulae ( 4 ) , the potential ( 8 ) becomes where are the roots of the quadratic Writing the quadratic in the form , we have by a known theorem . . . .
, where .
This series stops at the first negative power of , so that the number of terms is or according as is even or odd .
We find by simply differentiating that the differentiation being performed on the supposition that is constant .
We thus find that .
In order to find V , we require the value of the integral * One case of this equation is given by , who uses it to find the expansion of in powers of when that of is known .
Probably the equation for this case was suggested by differentiating .
See ' Conrs d'Algebre Superieure , ' fourteenth lesson .
; where are numerical factors whose values have just been found .
The numerators of the powers of are homogeneous functions of , whose dimensions are continually reduced by the differentiations implied in the operator The series has terms .
Thus for the law of the inverse fourth it reduces to the one term given in Art .
5 ; for the law of the inverse sixth power it becomes the two belms found in Art .
6 , and so on .
The potential at an external point coordinates are follows from that at an internal point by what is practically a method of inversion .
We describe through a confocal homoeoid whose axes are , and of the same volume as the original homoeoid .
The potentials of the homoeoids at corresponding points are then equal .
nbering the transformation already made in Art .
5 , we find the potential at an external point is .
where and have either of the forms , It should be noticed that the differentiations implied in the operator are to be performed on on the supposition that are constant .
9 .
To find the potential of thin homogeneous homceoid at point when the force varies the inverse power of the distance and , zero , or any even negative number .
We now use the potential ( 8 ) in the form where are the roots of the quadratic Putting , we substitute in the series .
Before attempting the general integration it is useful to examine what kind integral we shall arrive at .
We notice that every term of is an integra rational function of the direction cosines of the chord .
All the integra tions can , therefore , be completely effected .
The terms with odd powers of give zero on integration , while those with even powers may be found by the theorem Since every term of is of the same dimensions in , dimen sions , we notice that the denominator of this expression , viz. , , is same for every term .
Supposing the density to be a homogeneous function of : dimensions , we see that will take the general form . .
where is a homogeneous function of of dimensions .
If the series ends when the exponent of is unity , if the series ends when the numerator reduces to a constant .
Referring again to the general expression for the potential , we see that where the highest power in is less than , the only terms in the potential are those with .
It follows that when the of even inverse of the distance , the potential of , heterogeneons thin homcpoid can be found free from signs of integration , provided the of density at is a function of of less than dimensions .
14 .
Let us now consider the general integration of the expression for .
The following lemma will be required .
inning ( as in Art .
8 ) with the equation where the integration extends ] round the origin , let where are three arbitrary constants .
CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSIB SQUARE .
We then find where , as before .
In this equation all the exponents are to be positive .
To apply this lemma we let signify , which operate solely on the and not on the other which occur in the equation .
The equation may then be written We see by what precedes that it will be convenient to arrange the expression for in a series of inverse powers of E. Let us , therefore , seek the term containing Putting , we notice that contributes the one term where every exponent is positive .
To find all the terms with the given power of we sum expression , beginning at and ending at the lesser of the two or Using the lemma , the corresponding term of becomes where 2 implies a summation with regard to If the summation extends from to and the several terms form a complete binomial series .
If the summation extends from to .
In this case the missing operators required to complete the binomial series are \amp ; c. Since are differential ators of the orders and , while the subject is of the order , the missing operators reduce the subject to zero .
We may , therefore , suppose the binomial to be complete .
It immediately follows that where ( as in Art .
8 ) , and the 2 implies summation from to When the ellipsoidal shell is homogeneous we omit the operator , and put the density equal to unity .
The result then agrees with that already obtained in Art .
8 .
The differentiations with regard to , which are implied by , operate only on , while the differentiations , , in operate only on .
-When written at length the operator takes the form , . . . .
15 .
We may write the result in a different form so as to avoid having two kinds of operators .
We have Let represent the total operator when the differentiations implied act on both and .
Let be the partial operator when the differentiation .
act on then The potential of the heterogeneous homoeoid therefore becomes 16 .
As an example , let find the potential of a thin homoeoid at an internal point when the force varies the inverse fourth power and the density at is The series has only one term given by , since .
The result is seen at a glance to be Thus the potential is the same as if the homoecrid were homogeneous and its density were , This curious result may be verify by independent reasoning .
Let be the given Substituting this in the formula for V , already written down , we have the required potential .
Suppose the law of force to be the inverse sixth power , the potential of a homogeneous thin focaloid , at an internal point , is and at an external point V ' where are the axes of the confoca ] through , he external point , and It appears that the potential varies as the square of the perpendicular on the tangent plane for all points on the same confocal .
18 .
When the density of the thin homoeoid is a function of the coordinates of a degree higher than , the potential includes some of the terms of Art. .
12 , which contain and .
We shall now examine these terms .
In this way we shall arrive at an expression for the potential of thin heterogeneous homceoid at an point where the index of the force is positive even integer grealer than the square .
These additional terms are given by . .
, and are expressed lls functions of the direction cosines in Art .
1 .
Before attempting the general integration , it is convenient to examine the kind of integral we shall arrive at .
Consider first the dimensions of the several terms of as regards the coordinates of the attracted point .
Let be homogeneous and of dimensions , then remembering that ' is a linear function of we see that , if the terms are arranged in powers of or takes the form .
To apply this lemma we suppose , as before , that represent differentiations with regard to , but to operate only on .
Hence supposing to stand for , and using the abbreviations given in Art .
1 , we write the lemma in the form 20 .
By substituting for its value we find To use the lemma we put These give ) so that musb not be less than 2 .
They also make positive .
The double integral therefore becomes . .
where 2 has been written for and Since 2 here implies summation from to or , the terms which follow the do not form a complete binomial expansion .
But , since the operator contains differential coefficients of the order , while the subject is of the order , the missing terms are zero .
We may therefore sum the series from to .
We therefore have where and 2 nplies summation for integer values of , beginning at onwards until the terms vanish by the operation of the differential coefficients , contained in on the subject .
21 .
We may simplify this series by performing the operation once for all .
For the sake of brevity let We then find , when CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN INVERSE SQUARE .
[ he series stopping when the exponent of becomes negative .
The form of the xpansion having been found , the simplest proof is that supplied by the method of nduction .
Performing on both sides of this equation and noticing that we may see that since the theorem is true for , it is true for all positive integer ralues of .
It is unnecessary to reproduce the work .
When , some of the indices of at the beginning of the series are negative .
[ hese terms are to be omitted and we then have We thus have . .
In this equality and contain , which represent differential coefficients of the function .
Also to find we have to sum both sides of this equality for all values of from onwards , until the terms become zero by the continued operation of and on .
Since the series stops at the first negative of all negative exponents are to be omitted .
We therefore write the summation in ) form We notice that on the right-hand side the first 2 implies summation from 1 to , the second from to , and so on .
Now by TAYLOR'S theorem where the 2 implies summation from to .
We therefore have .
Here is an operator on .
The quantities are con stants for which we write after the operations indicated by have been performed .
We may reverse the order of these operations and write , \amp ; c. , before the operation has been performed , provided we replace the ncluded in , respectively .
The operator then takes the form ; also by the same substitution which must now be placed on the left-hand side of the operator to indicate that it is not inclnded in the subject .
We thus find for the partial potential of a thin heterogeneous homoeoid , whose density at the point is , this we add the partial potential , already found in Art .
L4 , for the complete potential .
22 .
It is sometimes more convenient to use the axes of the ellipsoid instead of the squared reciprocals .
Let us also suppose that the density at any point is given by , so that we may the more easily deduce the potential at an external point .
Also writing , we have \mdash ; . .
' .
The of thin heterogeneous homceoid point is then CERTAIN LAWS OF FOROE OTHER THAN THE SQUARE .
where the operator is , where is the inde , of the of force .
Having found the law of the potential of a homoeoid for the inverse power , the potential for the inverse power may be obtained by theorem , already mentioned Art .
5 .
We might thus obtain a new proof of the formula .
the method of induction .
The theorem has been verified in this way , but the demonstration is long and rather tedious .
23 .
To deduce the potential of the heterogeneous homoeoid at an external point , we follow the same process as before .
Let be axes of the confocal through the attracted point .
Let , so that is determined by We now write and for and , where a'b'c ' since the volumes of the two shells are to be equal .
Lasdy , putting , \amp ; c. , we find after some easy reductions that the partial potential of the heterogeneous homcpoid an external point is \ldquo ; ' . .
24 .
As a first example , let the of ) be the inverse square .
We then have and therefore .
The partial -potential is then zero and the complete potentials , inside and outside , are given by the expressions for and just written down .
es agree with those given by Mr. DYSON in the 'Quarterly Jotlrnal , ' vol. 25 , 1891 .
As a second example , let us find the potential of a thin homoeoid when the of force is the inverse fourth power the density at We then find by Arts .
( 14 ) and ( 22 ) , The potential at an internal point is the sum of these two .
25 .
To find the potential oj thin heterogeneous homceoid when the force vary the inverse power of the distance , and , zero , or any even negative As the investigation resembles that of the last proposition , except as regards lemma , ib is sufficient merely to sketch the argument .
To avoid confusion as to the sign of , let us , in the first instance , put We then have , by Art .
2 , ; writing as before ( Art .
12 ) , where 2 implies summation from to .
We now substitute , as before , where The lemma by which the integration of each term is effected is as follows .
By Art .
10 we have .
Following the same notation as before , we let We then find , as in Art .
19 , where is positive and less than To apply the lemma we put These give and this requires that the index of the force should be less than 2 .
After summing the same binomial series as before , we have 27 .
To find the potential of a solid homoge , neous ellipsoid at point when the law of is inverse power and is even Referring to Art .
4 , we see that when Proceeding as in Art .
8 , we have where 2 implies summation from .
Writing , and remembering the integral given in Art .
8 , we have where and 2 implies summation from to .
Thus the series has but two terms when the law of force is the inverse sixth , three terms when the inverse and so on .
28 .
To find the potential homogeneous solid ellipsoid internal the is the inverse , and be negative .
Here Substituting and usin the integral form given in the lemma , Art .
10 , we find , afte1 summing the same binomial series , where and CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
29 .
Let us next turn our attention to the attraction of a heterogeneous solid elipsoid at an internal point .
The density at any point being , the density at a neighbouring point is Let us describe a sphere of small radius \ldquo ; whose centre is the point .
The attraction at the celltre of the matter filling this sphere , supposing the law of attraction to be the inverse and the density to be , is seen by an easy integration to be except when .
If is greater than 4 , this attraction is infinite .
If the integral is and is again infinite .
The attraction at any intern1d point of a heterogeneous is therefore in general infinite whenever the law of force is such that the index is greater than 3 .
We shall therefore confine our attention to those laws of force which make less than 4 .
When the ellipsoid is homogeneous the attraction of the matter filling the elementary sphere is zero at the centre , and there is no restriction on the value of 30 .
To the potential an internal point of a heterogeneous ellipsoid whose density is , when the of force the , and even less than 4 .
Referring to Art .
4 we see that the potential at of the conical element whose axis is in the positive direction of the radius vector is , the limits being to .
As in Art .
12 , we write . . . .
* The potential of the positive conical element is therefore ) To find the potential of the 1legative cone , we let be the distance from of one of its elements , taken positively .
The sity at is found by writing for in the above series for .
The potential of the negative cone is , therefore , , and here we must write for R. Taking the two conical elements together , and writing for , the potential of the whole ellipsoid at becomes The integral is to be taken all round the attracted point .
The summation represented by 2 extends from to infinity .
The investigation now proceeds on the same general lines as in Art .
25 .
By Art .
8 we have where the sum extends from to or .
Substituting and effectin an integration by the use of the lemma of Art .
25 , we find , after putting , where The summation implied by the 2 does not make a complete binomial series .
But since the operator contains differential coefficients of the order while the subject is of the order where , the terms given by any value of greater than are zero .
The missing terms of the binomial series are therefore zero .
Summing the series we find where 2 here implies summation from to To effect this summation we take the series for given in Art .
21 , where Putting , we find Using TAYLOR'S theorem in the manner described in Art .
the result of performing this operation on is . .
We now make the changes in the operators described in the article just referred to , and the expression for the potential becomes V , CERTAIN OF FORCE OTHER THAN THFC INVERSE SQUARE .
where . . .
, ' It is often more convenient to use the axes of the elIipsoid instead of the squared reciprocals .
Let us also suppose that the density at the point is .
Putting , we have .
The potential at an internal point of the solid heterogeneous ellipsoid is then . .
, and where is the index of the law of force .
As an example , let the law be the inverse square , we then have The expression then becomes , which agrees with that given by Mr. DYSON in the ' Quarterly JourIlal , ' 1891 .
31 .
In memoir on Prepotentials we find a simple and elegant formula for the potential of an ellipsoid in the of a definite integral ( see ' Phil. Trans 1875 , p. 745 ) .
Taking ths notation of this paper , let be the potential of a solid elhpsoid when the force varies as the inverse power of the distance at an external point .
When the density at an internal point is given by where are the semi-axes of the bounding surface , it is shown that where and have the meaning given in Art .
31 .
It is necessar ) , that each of the three quantities should be positive .
When the ellipsoid is homogeneous , and the restrictions just mentione require that the index of the force should lie between \mdash ; and 4 .
When th index is greater than 4 , the index of the density cannot be less thal .
Journal , gives a similar formul ( also ) entioned by CAYLEY ) for the attraction of a ] homogeneous ellipsoid , bu the index of the law of force is restricted to lie between 2 and 3 .
In the ' Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal , ' vol. 3 , 1843 , CAYLEY ha given the value of a muItiple integral which , when the number of variables is reduce to three , is equivalent to the potential of a homogeneous ellipsoid .
Taking as before the notation of pape and supposing the force to vary as the inverse power the distance , the potential at an external point becomes where , , It is obvious that must be an integer , so that must be an even integer anc must be greater than 4 .
As the subject of operation is not an integral rational function of formula has the disadvantage that the algebraical work of using the operator is long .
An elementary proof of this result will be given in Art .
37 , by which it will appea ] that it is really a case of JELLET'S theorem .
Another method of finding the potential of a heterogeneous ellipsoid has beer given by Dr. FERiRERS in the ' Quarterly Journal , ' 1875 .
The method requires that CIlRTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THHi INVERSE SQUARE .
the potential of an ellipsoid , whose density is , should be known for all integer values of .
To deduce the potential V ' , when the density at is he finds a general expression for in a series of differential coefficients of with descending powers of .
The value of V ' is then expressed in a corresponding series of differential coefficients of V. law of force is stlpposed to be the inverse , but the method applies for other laws of force , provided the fundamental expression for V is known .
32 .
When the attracted point is external , we all laws of force deduce the resolved attractions of a homogeneous ellipsoid by the use of IvoRY'S theorem , the attractions at an internal point having been found in Arts .
27 , 28 .
But when we know the potential of a thin homoeoid at an external point , we may also express as an integral the potential of a solid ellipsoid in which the density at any point is giyen by .
When the force varies as the inverse square , this problem has in effect been solved by POISSON .
The potential at an external point is in that case where is the integral of , and .
Let us turn our attention to the corresponding integral when the law of force is the inverse power , here is greater than the square .
The potential of a thin homogeneous homoeoid bounded by ellipsoids , whose ajor axes are and at an exbernal point , has been found in a finite serles Art .
8 .
Let us use this to find the potential of a thin shelllounded by ellipsoids , whose major axes are and .
The density of the shell is , and the integral of its potential between the limits to 1 is the potential of the heterogeneous solid ellipsoid .
Referring then to the formula in Art .
8 , we unite for ; ma , mb , mc , for ; and for .
We also put to simplify our Since the attracted point lies on the confocal , we have .
( 1 ) .
The potential of the solid ellipsoid is therefore mdm where , I ) the quantities represented by being derived from respectively by the changes described above .
Since by differentiating ( 1 ) we have ( 2 ) , we may conveniently change the independent variable from to , the limits bein to where are the squared semi-axes of the ellipsoid passing through the attracted point , and confocal with the external surface of the given ellipsoidal body .
We thus have where has the value given by ( 1 ) .
This formula expresses the potential of a solid ellipsoid , whose strata of equal density are ellipsoids similar to the bounding surface , the law of force being the inverse power of the distance where is not less than the fourth .
The series has terms .
We shall now apply this equation to the special cases in which the force varies as the inverse fourth , sixth , eighth and tenth powers of the distance .
33 .
Suppose the of force to be the inverse fourth , then , and the series reduces to its first term .
The potential of the ellipsoid at an external point is therefore V ' CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
If the density is uniform , , and we fall back on the already obtained in Art .
5 .
Let us , however , consider what forms of will enable us to effect the integrations .
Solving ( 1 ) , Art .
32 , we have where ' .
If we put , where is some constant , the potential reduces to , the form V ' Writing this takes the simple form V ' to where is given by This integral can be sily evaluated , but as the result is rather long it seems unnecessary to reproduce it here .
If the radius vector of the ellipsoid through any internal point , whose coordinates are , meet the surface in , we know that where is the centre .
It follows that when the law of force is the inverse fourth power and the density at any point varies as , the potential at any external point can be found in finite terms free from all signs of integration .
This theorem can be generalized .
For if we take the density to be where is a rational fraction : we arrive at an integral which can be evaluated by the use of partial fractions .
The potential of the ellipsoid can therefore be found in this case also .
CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE .
OTHER THAN THE INVERSE We may verify this result by comparing it with that given by CAYLEY in the ' Proceedings of the Mathematical Society , ' 1875 , for the potential of a homogeneous elliptic disc where the force varies as the inverse square of the distance .
His result is If be the potential of a disc when the law of force the inverse power , we have This theorem is proved by ROBERTS in the ' Quarterly Journal , ' 1881 .
Effecting the tiation indicated , the two values of the potential are seen to agree , though the modes of demonstration are totally different .
Dr. FERRERS has given an extension of CAYLEY'S theorem on the potential of a disc , which , when differentiated , also agrees with the results given above , see the ' Quarterly ' 1875 .
35 .
Let us next consider the potential at an external point when the force varies as the sixth er .
Here and the series in Art 32 is reduced to the two first terms .
We have where have the meanings given in the article referred to .
We notice if be the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent plane to the confocal at the attracted point , ' DK .
Substituting in the expression for V ' we have V ' where is the positive root of CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
which may be written shortly in the form where the differentiations with regard to are partial , the -ordinates of the attracted point not being varied .
Similarly we have Substituting these in the value of V ' , we find , after some reductions , If the ellipsoid is homogeneous , the potential at an external point , when the law of force is the inverse eighth , is V ' where When written at length this becomes When the density is not uniform we have , after twice integrating by parts , where in the integrated parts .
This result takes a very simple form when the density is given by The unintegrated term is then zero , and the potential reduces to the two first terms .
39 .
When the law of force is the inverse tenth power of the distance the expresslon becomes more complicated .
Putting where the differentiations with regard to are partial , we find , after integrating by parts , that the potential of a homogeneous ellipsoid at an external point is .
DR. .
J. ROUTH ON THE ATTRACTION OF ELLTPSOIDS FOR When the density is not uniform the potential is 40 .
When the index of the law of force is less than 4 , the formula in Art .
32 becomes inconvenient because the index of is ative .
To find the potential of a solid ellipsoid at an external point , we must , in this case , integrate the expression given in Art .
26 for the potential of an elementary shell .
The integration , however , presents great difficulties except in the case in which the law of force is the inverse square .
method of proceeding is then as follows : To find the potential of a thin homoeoid whose density is and axes and we use the formula of Art .
26 .
Writing for for for , and for we find the potential of the shell is where have the meaning given to them in Art .
22 , except that replaces and implies summation from onwards .
deduce the potential of the heterogeneous ellipsoid we integrate this from to 1 .
We notice that let be the of when , so that are the uared semi-axes of that confocal to the boundary of the solid ellipsoid which passes through the attracted point , viz. , .
Then , as passes from to 1 , passes from to Since when , we have We shall now integrate this equation from to 1 , i.e. , to .
The side becomes But and are both zero for all infinite values of , hence CERTAIN LAWS OF OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
The potential of a solid ellipsoid whose density is at an external point is therefore V ' This agrees with Mr. DysoN'S result , 'Quarterly Journal , ' 1891 .
41 .
When the force varies as an odd power of the distance , the analysis is different that given above .
There .
are two cases , according as the inverse index is egative or positive and greater than unity .
The former case is the easier , and ultimately depends on integrals resembling those lsed in finding moments of inertia , but of a power .
It will be convenient to this case first .
The latter case is the more interesting as we cannot suppose that the force can vary as a direct power of the distance except within a limited space .
The integ which present themselves in this case are similar to those used in the ordinary theory when the force varies as the inverse square .
On account of their complexity , it will useful to begin this part of the discussion with the simpler case , in which the *orce varies as the inverse cube , and then to proceed to the more general law of force .
Though we have here distinguished the cases according as the index is negative or positive , this is only to obtain finite results .
The expression obtained for the potential when is an odd negative integer , may be applied to the case in which is even or odd , positive or negative , but the expression then takes the form of an infinite series .
42 .
Before proceeding to this formula , it will be useful to notice two other methods of iving at the same potential .
Mr. W. D. NIVEN has given in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' for 1879 , a useful formula resembling the one used in Art .
43 .
Let be any function of the coordinates of a point on an ellipsoid .
Taking the integrations over the whole we have where and are to be put zero after the differentiations are performed .
There is a similar expression when the integration extends throughout the olume of the ellipsoid , and the strata of equal density are similar ellipsoids .
By givmg different forms , he obtains the values of some useful integrals .
To apply this to find the potential of an ellipsoidal shell at a point for the law of the inverse square , he puts He notices that the differentiations with regard to can be changed into differentiations with regard to , and that , therefore , may be put equd to zero before instead of after differentiation .
Dr. HOBSON has given another method in the 'Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' vol. 24 , 1893 .
He finds the expansions in series of the potentials of eilipsoidal shells , solid ellipsoids and discs of variable density , the law of force being any given function of the distance .
Taking the case , of a homoeoid , he first the surface density in a series of spheri al harmonics , say where is the perpendicular on the tangent plane .
The potential due to a surface distribution on the ellipsoid represented by any one of these terms , when the law of force is , is then given by the equation where is the distance of the attracted point from the element , and This series terminates when is an integral rational function of , and in other cases the potential is given by an infinite series .
43 .
To jind the potential of thin homogeneous homoeoid at internal or point when the force varies the inverse power , where odd negative integer .
Let be the coordinates of the attracted point those of any elementary mass of the homoeoid .
Writing to avoid negative quantities , we see that the potential of the ellipsoidal shell is Let , as before , be ; then the potential is We shall now expand the exponential and integrate the several terms over the CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
whole surface of the ellipsoid , being constant .
The terms of the expansion with odd exponents need not be considered , as after integration they are clearly zero .
The integral for any even power is best obtained from the corresponding integral for a sphere by the method of projections .
We have where is a positive integer .
Let Let the mass .
The potential then takes the simple form Here , so that the series is finite if the index of the force is an odd negative integer .
The expansion is , however , clearly true whether is integral or not , , provided only the series is convergent .
44 .
To find the potential of heterogeneous homoeoid when is odd integer .
Let the law of density be .
Following the same reasoning as before , we have This is the same as Making the same expansion , we have When the law of density is , we have where stand for , and The series is finite when is an odd negative integer .
We may also deduce this expression from the series given in NIVEN'S memoir .
Putting the general term of his expansion is .
Let Sd/ d and .
Usin the generalized theorem of LEIBNITZ for the differential coefficient of a product , and putting , after differentiation we have ( @ ) . . .
the last term being obtained by changing the subject of rentiation from to Treating and in the same way , we have .
When we replace by and by a power , this becomes virtually identical with the general term of the expansion found above for V. 45 .
As an example , let the law of force be the direct cube of the distance , and let the density be .
We have Remembering the meaning of , this is clearly .
The potential for a homogeneous homoeoid for the same law of force is a constant term being omit 46 .
We may use the same method to find the potential of solid ellipsoid when is any odd negative integer .
CERTAIN LAWS OF ORCE OTHER THAN INVERSE SQUARE .
Proceeding as before , we have 'here is an element of vohlme .
Either by DIRICflLET'S theorem , or by projections a sphere , we have It immediately follows that for a homogeneous ellipsoid the potential is yhere stand for as before .
For a heterogeneous ellipsoid whose density is , we have V Both these expressions are finite where is positive , i.e. the index of the power is negative odd integer .
47 .
This method be applied to other bodies besides the ellipsoid , only bhe value of the fundamental integral is known for that body .
There ) man bodies for which this integral is nown , such as triangles , quadrilaterals , tetrahedra , and so on ( see a paper by the author in the ' Quarterly Journal , ' 1886 ) .
As an nple , consider the tetrahedron , let , , \amp ; c. , be the coordinates of the four corners , Jet \amp ; c. , so that , S are to the distan of the four corners from the plane of reference .
The fundame1ltal integral I is then equal to the product of the volume of the tetrahedron by the arithm mean of the homogeneous products of , S of the degree .
By choosing a proper origin and axes the expressions , S may be simplified to suit any particular case .
Using this expression for the fundamental integral the potential of a tetrahedron for any direct odd law of force can be deduced from the differential coefficients of 48 .
When the index not we can often write down the potential CXCY .
by using the theory of equimomental points .
We have already seen that the potential of any body is Expandin the power , we see that the highest powers of which occur are in the term independent of .
These only give a constant term to the potential .
Neglecting these terms we see that if two bodies are such that is the same for both , when is , these bodies have equal potentials at all points .
Now is the index of the force taken positively .
Hence , if two bodies are equimomental for all powers up to the , they are also equipotential , except for a constant .
There are many bodies which be replaced by equimomental points .
For example , can show that , up to cubes inclusive , a solid ellipsoid is equimomental to six placed at the extremities of any set of conjugate diameters , each equal to one-tenth of the mass of the ellipsoid together with a seventb particle placed the centre of gravity equal to two-fifths of the mass of the ellipsoid .
Placing the six particles at the extremities of the axes , we can write down the potential of the ellipsoid when the force varies as the cube of the distance .
We clearly have . .
therefore , omitting a constant , In the snme way a tetrahedron , up to cubes inclusive , is equimomental to eight points .
We collect nine-fortieths of the volume at the centre of gravity of each face and one-fortieth at each corner .
The potential of the tetrahedron when the force varies as the direct cube of the distance can therefore be immediately written down .
Let the centre of gravity of the tetrahedron be the origin , and let the axis of pass through the attracted point P. Then , and , , \amp ; c. , are the coordinates of the four COl.ners The potential is easily seen to be 49 .
To find the potential of thin homoeoid at an internal point when the of is the inverse cube .
Referring to Art .
3 , the potential V for an odd inverse power is CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN INVERSE SQUARE .
, this becomes Taking the standard quadratic ( 3 ) of Art .
1 , we have The potential required is , therefore , ( 1 ) , where is the radius vector of the auxiliary ellipsoid . . . .
( 2 ) , wluch may also be written in the form . . . .
1 . . . .
( 3 ) .
To find the integral we require tho folJowing lemma:\mdash ; Lemma .
Let be the radius vector of ellipsoid whose semi-axes are ; the radius vector of the polar reciprocal with .
to a concentric sphere of radius ( 4 ) .
To prove this , we notice that the integration extending throughout the volume of the ellipsoid .
Writing , and integrating throughout the volume of a sphere of radius unity , this becomes by changing to polar coordinates .
After integrating with regard to from to 1 , it becomes obvious that the double intregral remaining is the value of lor an ellipsoidal surface whose semi-axes are .
Introducing the to preserve the dimensions , the theorem follows at once .
50 .
It from this lemma the potential of the is , where are the semi-axes of the auxiliary ipsoid ( .
double integral occurs in the ordinary expression for the potential at the centre of a homoeoid when the law of force is the inverse square , and its axes are .
Taking its value from that igation , we have where . . . .
, and are the squared reciprocals of semi-axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid .
We , therefore , have . . . . .
( 7 ) .
The axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid are given by its discriminating cubic .
Let be the leading letter of the cubic , so that the three values of are .
As we want the product represented above by .
, we change the cubic into another having for its leading letter by writing .
The last , term of this second cubic is the product required .
In this way we find ( 8 ) .
Substituting either this determinant or the product ( 6 ) in ( 7 ) , we have an expression for If be the mass of the homceoid , the potential at an internal point when the law of force the inverse cube is given by , ( 9 ) .
We may put this theorem into a geometrical form by rememberin that in f , be equation ( 5 ) the double integral occurs in finding the potential of a homoeoid when the ] of force is the inverse square .
We have , therefore , the following theorem .
CERTAIN LAWS OF FOROE OTHER THAN THF , INVERSE SQUARE .
Let the potential of a tbin homoeoid of mass , and semi-axes , be .
, when bhe force varies as the inverse cube .
Let the potential of a second thin hornoeoid of mass at an internal point be when the force varies as the inverse square .
If the bounding surface of the second homoeoid be the .
polar reciprocal with regard to a sphere of radius of the auxiliary elIipsoid of the first , then The potential of the homoeoid at an external point is the same as that of a thin confocal homoeoid through of equal volume and density at the internal corresponding point P. 51 .
To discover the geometrical relation of the auxiliary ellipsoid to the homoeoid whose potential at is required , we examine the form ( 2 ) of Art .
49 .
Let OP produced cut the homoeoid in , and let OA , OB , OC , be a set of diameters .
Then , if these lines are taken as a new set of axes , the equations of the homoeoid and its auxiliary ellipsoid respectively become The two are thus referred to a common set of conjugate diameters .
If we take , in OA , OB , OC , respectively , so that the ellipsoid having , OC ' for conjugate diameters is the auxiliary ellipsoid .
52 .
To find the potential of homogeneous thin homceoid at an internal point when the law of ttraction is any inverse odd power greater than 3 .
Putting , the required potential , by Art .
3 , becomes .
Referrin to the standard quadratic ( 3 ) of Art .
1 , and putting have by the theorem already quoted in Art .
8 , DR. E. J. ROUTH ON THE ATTRACTION OF ELLIPSOIDS FOR This series stops at the first negative power of and it is necessary that should be greater than zero .
If , the left hand side mllst be halved .
In our case we put , and since is odd the series has terms .
As in Art .
49 , we have where is the radius vector of the same auxiliary ellipsoid as that used for the inverse cube .
In this way we find where 2 implies summation from to .
In these integrations are the direction cosines of the moving radius vector and are the coordinates of the fixed attracted point P. Let , for the sake of brevity , then are constant during the integration .
Let where .
As already explained , the integration extends over all positions of the moving radius vector round P. Remembering that , we see that each term of the series for V may be derived from the preceding by a uniform ])rocess .
Let After some slight numerical reductions we find where varies from to , so that the series for the potential has terms , being the inverse index of the law of force .
When has been expressed as a function of , and the axes of the homoeoid attraction is required , this formula will give the potential at all internal points .
53 .
The value of has been given by the double integral where .
We shall now show that it can be reduced to a single integral .
CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN INVERSE SQUARE .
Let he moving radius vector be called OR .
The direction cosines of OR , when referred to the axes of the ttracting homoeoid , are ; let its direction cosines referred to the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid be .
Let the fixed straight ] whose direction cosines are proportional to , when referred to the axes of the homoeoid be called OL .
Let its direction cosines , when referred to the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid , be .
Then Proceeding as in the lemma ( Art .
49 ) we have the integration extending throughout the volume of the iary ellipsoid .
If be the coordinates of a point on OR referred to the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid , this is the same as Putting , where are the semi-axes of the auxlliary ellipsoid , and transforming back to polar coordinates , we have the integration extending throughout the volume of a sphere of radius unity .
Putting , and integrating from to 1 , we find Referring to the lemma proved in Art .
10 , and putting , we find that the -hand side of this equation is Returning to the notation that ( Art .
49 ) are the squared of the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid , and writing , we have where DR. E. J. ROUTH ON THE ATTRACTION OF ELLIPSOIDS FOR , : The separate values of the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid may be found by the solution of a cubic , and if this were sufficient , is here expressed as a single integral .
But the product has been found in Art. .
50 as a determinant without requiring the solution of the cubic .
We shall now seek for an expression for of the same kind .
54 .
Since are the squared reciprocals of the axes of the auxiliary ellipsoid , .
( .
) , it follows that are the squared reciprocals of the axes of . . . . . . . .
( II .
) .
Since these quadrics are concyclic , they are also co-axial , and therefore are the direction cosines of OL referred to the axes of the second quadric .
It immediately follows that is the sum of the squares of the projections of the axes on the straight line OL and is , therefore , equal to the sum of the squares of the projections of any three conjugate diameters on the same straight line .
Let be any two conjugate semi-diameters of the section and let be the third conjugate for the ellipsoid II .
Then since OL is per- pendicular to the section containing , the sum of the squares of the projections on OL is Let be the direction cosines of referred to the axes of the homoeoid .
Then by equation ( II .
) ( say ) , .
Substituting these values of and , we find , after clearing of fractions , CERTAIN LAWS OF OTHER THAN THE SQUARE .
where .
If were written in partial fractions , it must be the same as above .
The factors of the denominator must therefore be This is obvious]y correct since the denominator is the expansion of the determinant which agrees with the determinant already found for in Art .
50 , when we substitute Finally , substituting in the value of , we have where and have the values given just above .
In this way has been found by a single definite integral in terms of the axes of the attracting homoeoid and the coordinates of attracted point .
55 .
The potentials of elliptic rings and discs follow from those obtained for an ellipsoidal shell or solid .
The transformation may be effected in either of two ways .
By making the axis of equal to zero , the homoeoid becomes a disc and the potential at any external or internal point may be deduced from the formulae of Art .
12 .
In this case the .surface density at any point of the disc is proportional to where is the density of the homoeoid at the point In this transformation the law of force remains unaltered so that if the formulae of Art .
12 are used , the index must be an even number .
Another method is to make the axis of infinite , so that the homoeoid becomes a cylinder .
Since the potential of an infinite rod , of line density , at a distance is , we see that the potential of the homoeoid , when the index of the awe of force is , becomes proportional to that of elliptic ring with alaw of foroe whose index is , provided the attracted point lies in the plane of the ring .
In this way the potential of a thin elliptic ring , whose line density at the point , is proportional to , where is the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent , may be deduced from the formulae of Art .
12 , when the law of force varies as an odd power of the distance .
As these results may be obtained by simple substitution , we shall for the present pass them over and consider a theorem which is derived from neither of these methods .
56 .
When the force varies as the inverse cube of the distance , it is known that the level surfaces of a homogeneous elliptic disc are confocal quadrics .
The potential at any point may then be found in elliptic coordinates by considering the potential at some convenient point of each confocal ( see a paper by Mr. WEBB , 'Quarterly Jourual , ' vol. 14 , We shall now prove that if the law of force is the inverse power of the distance , and the surface density at , the level surfaces are confocal of the elliptic disc .
Let be any point on a confocal , and let the normal at meet the plane of the disc in PG is the axis of cone enveloping the disc and having its vertex at P. Draw two consecutive chords through ; let one of these be SGS ' and let be the angle between them .
Then PG makes equal angles with the opposite generators PS , PS ' of the cone .
Take two elements of area at on opposite sides of , such that PG bisects the angle RPR ' as well as the angle SPS ' , let .
These elements attract equally if the surface densities at are such that Supposing this to be true , the resultant attraction of the two elements , and therefore that of the whole disc , will act along the normal PG .
Because PG bisects both the angles SPS ' , RPR ' , we have by elementary trigonometry S. The first of these results shows that .
Since the second shows that Produce to cut the conic in .
If be the semi-diameter parallel to the chord SGS ' , we have by a well-known theorem in conics CERTAIN LAWS OF FORCE OTHER THAN THE INVERSE SQUARE .
where are the coordinates of R. There is a correspondin equation for the product .
The necessary relation between , is therefore satisfied the given law of den sity .
This proof does not require to be an integer .
57 .
To find the potential of the disc , we place the attracted point on the axis of the disc .
If be its distance from the centre , the potential at is ( 1 ) , writing thus becomes ( 2 ) , the limits being to 1 , to .
This may also be written in the form ( 3 ) , where , so that are the axes of the confocal through the attracted point .
When the integral is easily found ; we have We see from the third form above that the rentiation being effected on the supposition that are constant .
When the disc is circular , the first form for becomes Puttin , this immediately reduces to 950 ON THE ATTRACTION OF ELL[PSOIDS FOR CERTAIN hAWS OF FORCE .
where is the angle subtended by any radius of the disc at the intersection of the confocal with the axis of the disc .
The integration can be easily performed by a formula of reduction .
58 .
Conversely , we may inquire whether this is the only law of density which makes the level surfaces of the disc to be confocals .
Taking the law of force to be the inverse power of the distance where , let be any point on the confocal immediately adjacent to the disc .
The potential at is due to the matter of the disc in its immediate neighbourhood .
Let be the surface density at this point , the infinitely snlall distance of from the disc .
The potential at of an infinite plane of this surface density is Hence the potential cannot be constant at all points of this confocal unless aries as , i.e. , varies as } .

