Photography of S\amp ; c. \#171 ; Photography of Sound-waves , and the Kinematographic Demonstration of the Evolutions of Reflected Wave-fronts .
" By B. W. Wood , Assistant Professor of Physics in the University of Wisconsin .
Communicated by C. V. Boys , F.E.S. Received February 10 , \#151 ; Read February 15,1900 .
In a paper published in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' ( August , 1899 ) I gave an account of a series of photographs of sound-waves undergoing reflection , refraction , diffraction , \amp ; e. , which were made chiefly for the purpose of illustrating certain optical phenomena to classes .
The waves were in every case single pulses in the air produced by electric sparks , illuminated and photographed by the light of a second spark , properly timed with reference to the first , the apparatus being essentially the same as that employed by Toepler for the study of striae .
I have recently secured , by means of an improved apparatus , a very much better and more complete series of photographs ; and at the risk of subjecting myself to criticism for bringing matter already published to the attention of the Society , I wish to devote a few minutes to a very rapid inspection of them .
The following cases , that were not represented in my first paper , I think I may safely comment upon .
The conjugate foci of the elliptical mirror , aplanatic for rays issuing from a point , is very beautifully shown , the spherical wave diverging from one focus being transformed by reflection into a converging sphere which shrinks to a point at the other focus .
The transformation of a spherical into a plane wave by a parabolic mirror is also well shown ( fig. 1 ) .
Fig. 1 .
The effect of spherical aberration of circular mirrors is beautifully exhibited in several cases .
When a plane wave enters a hemispherical mirror the reflected wave front is cusped , and the cusp will be seen to lie always on the caustic surface .
The form of the complete wave in this case is not unlike a VOL. LXVI .
Z 284 Prof. E. W. Wood .
Photography of Sound-waves , and the volcanic cone with a bowl-shaped crater , the bowl eventually collapsing to a point , at the focus of the mirror , the sides of the cone running in under it and crossing .
From now on the wave diverges , and goes out of the mirror in a form somewhat resembling the bell of a medusa , the caustic form by twice-reflected rays being traced by a second cusp ( fig. 2 ) .
Fro .
2 .
These forms can , of course , be constructed geometrically , and we have here a slide with a number of successive positions of the wave-front , showing how the cusps follow the caustic surface ( fig. 3 ) .
The Fig. 3 .
construction shows that there is a concentration of energy at the cusp ; consequently we may define the cusp as a moving focus , and the caustic as the surface traced by it .
Though I hesitate in claiming that this relation , at once so apparent , is at all novel , I may say that , so far as I have been able to find , it is not brought out in any of the text-books , caustic surfaces being invariably treated by rather than by wave-front methods .
If the wave starts at the principal focus-of a hemispherical mirror , the reflected front is nearly plane in the vicinity of the axis , curling up at the edges , however .
As this flat-bottomed saucer moves up , the KinematographicDemonstration of Reflected Wave-fronts .
285 ' curved sides come to a focus along the circular edge of the flat bottom , so that in one position the front appears as a true plane ( fig. 4 ) ; but Fig. 4 .
from this point on the curved sides , having passed through a focus , diverge again and follow the flat bottom .
The cusp formed by the union of these two portions traces the caustic surface , which is in this case a very tapering funnel , as is shown well by the geometrical construction ( fig. 5 ) .
Fig. 5 .
If now we substitute for the hemisphere a complete sphere , we obtain very complex forms which cannot be followed except by geometrical constructions , for the wave is shut up in the mirror and reflected back and forth , becoming more complicated at each reflection ( fig. 6 ) .
That all of these very intricate forms can be constructed by 286 Prof. K. W. Wood .
Photography of and the geometry I shall show presently ; and hy means of the animatograph , which Mr. Paul has most kindly placed at our disposal , we can actually see the wave going through its gymnastics .
Fig. 6 .
The principle of Huygens , that any small portion of a wave-front can be considered as the centre of a secondary disturbance , and that a small portion of this new disturbance can in turn be regarded as a new centre , can be shown by the sound-waves , as well as the obliteration of the shadow by diffraction , and the secondary wavelets reflected from corrugated surfaces , interesting in connection with the diffraction grating .
Various cases of refraction are also shown , the only novel one being the transformation of a spherical into a plane wave by a carbonic-acid lens .
The construction of the cylindrical lens , of exceedingly thin collodion , a matter of considerable difficulty , was successfully accomplished , the circular flat ends of very thin mica , free from striae , enabling the passage of the wave through the lens to be followed ( fig. 7 ) .
The other cases of refraction have already been described , as Fig. 7 .
Cinematographic Demonstration of Reflected .287 well as the very beautiful instance of the formation of a train of waves , or musical note , by the reflection of a single pulse from a steep flight of steps ( fig. 8 ) .
... .
Fig. 8 .
lieturning now to the evolutions of plane and spherical waves after reflection from spherical surfaces , I wish to bring to the attention of the Society a method of demonstrating in a most graphic manner the progressive changes in the wave-front reflected under these conditions .
Having been unable to so control the time interval between the two sparks that a progressive series could be taken , I adopted the simpler method of making a large number of geometrical constructions , and then photographing them on a kinetoscope film .
As a very large number of drawings ( 100 or so ) must be made if the result is to be at all satisfactory , a method is desirable that will reduce the labour to a minimum .
I may be permitted to give , as ah instance , the method that I devised for building the series illustrating the reflection of a plane wave in a spherical mirror .
The construction is shown in the figure .
ABC is the mirror , AOC the plane wave .
Around points on ABC as centres describe circles tangent to the wave .
These circles will be enveloped by another surface , ADE , below the mirror ( the orthogonal surface ) .
If we erect normals on this surface , we have the reflected rays , and if we measure off equal distances on the normals , we have the reflected wave-front .
By drawing the orthogonal surface we avoid the complication of having to measure off the distances around a corner .
The orthogonal surface is an epicycloid formed by the rolling of a circle of a diameter equal to the radius of curvature of the mirror on the mirror 's surface , and normals can be erected by drawing the \gt ; 288 Prof. E. W. Wood .
Photography of Sound-waves , and the arc FG ( the path of the centre of the generating circle ) , and describing circles of diameter BE around various points on it .
A line joining the point of intersection of one of these circles with the epicycloid and the point of tangency with the mirror , will , when produced , give a reflected ray ; for example , JK produced for circle described around H. This construction once prepared , the series of wave-front pictures can be very quickly made .
Three or four sheets of paper are laid under the construction and holes are punched through the pile by means of a pin , at equal distances along each ray ( measured from the orthogonal surface ) .
The centre of the mirror and the point where its axis meets the surface are also indicated in the same manner .
The sheets are now separated , and corresponding pin-holes are united on each sheet by a broad black line , which represents the wave-front .
After a time it becomes necessary to consider double reflections , and .
to do this we are compelled to construct twice-reflected rays ( indicated by dotted lines ) , and measure around a corner each time .
About a hundred pictures are prepared for each series , and the pictures then photographed separately on the film , which , when run 1Cinematographic Demonstration of Deflected W 289 Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
w ^ o O O \#169 ; \#169 ; '\#169 ; o w w o o W V_y w w pi through Mr. Paul 's animatograph , will give us a very vivid representation of the motion of the wave-front .
The series illustrating reflection inside of a complete sphere was th\lt ; 290 Photography of S , \amp ; c. most difficult to prepare , as several reflections have to be considered^ It has been completed for three reflections , and Mr. Max Mason , of Madison , to whom I am greatly indebted for his patient work in assisting me , is going on with the series .
As will be seen , the wave has already become quite complicated , and it will be interesting to see what further changes result after three or four more reflections .
I am also under obligations to Professor A. B. Porter , of Chicago , who prepared the set of drawings illustrating the passage of a wave out from the principal focus of a hemispherical mirror .
Fia .
11 .
A number of points taken at intervals along the film are here reproduced , and give a fair idea of the transformations .
Pig .
9 shows the plane wave entering the hemispherical mirror , while in fig. 10 we have a spherical wave starting on the principal focus of a similar reflecting surface ( compare fig. 9 with fig. 2 , and fig. 10 with fig. 4 ) .
Fig. 11 shows the evolutions of the wave shut upon the complete spherical mirror , and shows the development of the complicated photographed forms shown in fig. 6 .

