399 The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
IV .
" On the Increase of Electrical Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron with Various Elements , and the Specific Heat of those Elements .
" By Professor W. F. Barrett , F.R.S. V. " Continuous Electrical Calorimetry .
" By Professor H. L. Callendar , F.R.S. " The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.R.S. Received January 9.\#151 ; Read February 6 , 1902 .
The following pages give the outcome of attempts to prepare pure hydrogen , and experiments on the stratifications exhibited by the purified gas under the influence of an induction current .
The researches were commenced in 1884 and have been continued intermittently to the present time .
The original apparatus consisted of a vacuum tube of socla-glass , fi inches long and 4 inch wide , having sealed-in aluminium terminals at each end .
The pole at one end was ring-shaped , at the other pointed .
The vacuum tube was connected to the mercury pump at \#166 ; one end , a tightly packed phosphoric anhydride tube intervening .
At the other end was another phosphoric anhydride tube , a hydrogen generator of zinc and dilute sulphuric acid and a tap to control the flow of gas .
The hydrogen was passed through the apparatus for some hours , and the whole was exhausted to a high point , re-filled , and again exhausted .
This was repeated many times ; but , on exhausting to the stratification-point , I could get no spectrum which did not show , in addition to hydrogen , also mercury .
The apparatus was therefore modified .
Strips of palladium foil were charged with hydrogen by the electrolysis of dihite sulphuric acid ; a 4-cell Grove 's battery being used for 1 hour .
After drying , the palladium strips were put in a glass tube and sealed between the generator and vacuum tube .
At first , crude gas from the generator was used to wash out the apparatus , and after many fillings and exhaustions\#151 ; the last to the highest possible point\#151 ; the generator and tap were sealed off , leaving only the palladium and drying tubes attached to the apparatus .
A portion of the palladium was now gently heated ; the gauge sank 12 cm .
, when it was again well exhausted and a little more hydrogen liberated .
This was repeated three times , when the tube was exhausted to the stratification-point\#151 ; about 4 mm. Parti-coloured Stratification s. The strata were twelve in number , and of a slightly concavo-convex button-shape , each of a blue colour on the convex side facing the negative pole , and pink on the other side .
On reversing the current , " 2 F 2 Sir W. Crookes .
the buttons faced round , always presenting the blue face to the negative pole .
Examination with a spectroscope showed strong hydrogen lines in the pink parts , and both hydrogen and mercury in the blue parts .
Eig .
1 shows the appearance at this stage .
The exhaustion was now raised to- 2 mm. , when the whole of the blue faces of the parti-coloured buttons suddenly migrated to one bright blue , well-formed button , nearest the negative pole , all the other buttons remaining pink .
The appearance is shown in fig. % Fig. 2 , Round the negative pole an indistinct halo showed both mercury and M hydrogen ; but on the blue button mercury only was detected , not a trace of even the brightest hydrogen line being there seen .
On the 1 pink portions the hydrogen lines were in excess , but mercury could be seen all along the tube.* * I have been unable to find any reference to this concentration of the blue I constituents of the strata into one single button at the end near the negative pole .
1 In the classical researches of Messrs. De la Rue and H. Muller on the ' Electric | Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery , ' numerous references are made to 1 the blue and pink parti-coloured character of the strata , and also to the change of I colour from all blue to all pink which follows a change in the electrical conditions .
| Thus we read :\#151 ; " Thirty-nine strata , the convex side being blue and the broader concave side reddish .
" " Twenty-one strata , very blue on the convex face , pink on .
1 the concave."\#151 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 169 , p. 175 .
Sometimes the stratifications are described as all of one colour Twenty-one very blue strata .
" " The strata were blue , and sixty-one in number .
" " Showing Th(^Stratifications of Hydrogen .
At 1 mm. pressure very little hydrogen could he detected by the spectroscope , the stratifications had almost disappeared , and mercury was strong throughout the tube .
Elimination of Mercury Vapour .
The mercury apparently diffused into the tube from the pump and many|devices were [ adopted to keep it out .
Long glass tubes filled with purified sulphur broken into coarse pieces were partially successful , but something ( probably sulphur ) was communicated to the hydrogen \#166 ; which interfered with the purity of the colours .
Also the sulphur did not prevent a little mercury diffusing in if the tubes were left on the pump all night .
Experience showed that mercury was very difficult to eliminate from a tube once it had gained access .
It adheres to the walls of the tube , and defies detection in the cold , but becomes visible in the spectroscope as soon as the tube is heated by a lamp .
Therefore a new hydrogen tube was made , and connected with tubes containing sulphur , bright copper turnings , and phosphoric anhydride ; the copper intervening to keep out the sulphur .
Here , again , mercury was detected after some days , but only in minute traces .
In each of these twenty-one double strata intensely blue , but willi a carmine line between the components."\#151 ; ' Phil. Trans./ vol. 169 , pp. 175 , 190 .
Frequently a change from all of one colour to all of the other colour is recorded .
Thus:\#151 ; " The tube was filled to within 1 inch of the negative with strata ; all these were blue , but they turned pink when 200,000 ohms resistance was introduced .
When 7,590,000 ohms resistance was introduced , a very close and somewhat agitated pink stratification was produced .
' ' " Thirty-four steady blue strata wrere produced ; on introducing 200,000 ohms resistance , the strata turned pink .
" \#166 ; " With 3600 cells the strata were blue and sixty-one in number .
With 700,000 ohms resistance the strata were reduced to eighteen and turned pink .
" " A change of current frequently produces an entire change in the colour of the strata .
For example , in a hydrogen tube , from a cobalt-blue to a pink."\#151 ; ' Phil. Trans./ vol. 169 , pp. 183 , 190 , 231 .
Very few spectrum observations wrere made by the authors , and they are not very definite in character .
One tube , which gave ten luminosities , was examined with the spectroscope .
" The C and F lines were brilliantly seen in the gloAv around the negative terminal , but were not visible in the spectrum of the nebulosities , notwithstanding that they wrere brighter than the negative glow ; there were blue , green , and red visible , but not the characteristic green and red lines of hydrogen .
" In another tube , " The characteristic hydrogen lines were very brilliant when the spectroscope was directed to the glow around the negative terminal , but quite a different spectrum was seen on a bright stratum , with mercury lines in the orange .
" " The hydrogen lines could not be seen either in the strata or the glow on the negative ring , but instead of them mercury lines came out strongly .
There is reason to think that at this stage there wras little gas except mercury vapour in the tube .
" " A change of current frequently . . .
changes the spectrum of the strata ; moreover , the spectra of the illuminated terminals and the strata differ."\#151 ; 4 Phil. Trans./ vol. 169 , pp. 180 , 216 , 232 .
Sir W. Crookes .
cases occurred the phenomena of the pink and blue strata at one exhaustion , changing to all-pink with a concentration of the blue to the front on increasing the vacuum ; the single blue button showing the mercury spectrum .
Continued pumping diminished the hydrogen , but apparently did not affect the mercury to the same extent .
It appears that the great cliffusibility of the hydrogen causes it to be readily pumped out , whilst the mercury is continually being replenished by diffusion from the pump .
A slight difference is produced in the purity of the colours of the strata according as aluminium or platinum poles are used .
A pair of vacuum tubes was made , one having the usual shaped aluminium poles , the other having platinum poles of a special construction .
Each terminal was of double wire , at one terminal bent into the form of a ring , and at the other a straight pole .
The ends of the wires forming the poles were sealed through the tube close together but not touching , and terminated in loops outside , so that they could be raised to red or white heat by connecting them with a few battery cells .
The arrangement will be readily understood by reference to the accompanying drawings ( fig. 3 ) .
Thus heat could easily be applied during exhaustion , Fig. 3 .
( Full size .
) first to one pole and then to the other , even while the induction spark was passing .
At first much gas was liberated from the platinum , but by repeated heating , pumping , and passing the spark , all the occluded gas was abstracted , and then the fillings with hydrogen and subsequent operations were commenced .
The general plan of the apparatus is shown in the drawing ( fig. 4 ) .
At the end furthest from the pump is the hydrogen generator , A , consisting of a U-shaped tube filled with dilute sulphuric acid , having in one leg a plate of amalgamated zinc , B , and in the other a sheet of platinum , C. Both the platinum and the zinc are connected metallic-ally to platinum wires sealed through the glass .
A funnel with a stopper , D , sealed to the outer limb of the generator admits dilute acid when required .
A tap , E , on the other limb enables the lesenoii o hydrogen to be disconnected from the rest of the apparatus , i ollou ing this tap is a battery of three tubes , one F , containing small lumps o The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
403 dry caustic potash ; the second , G , and the third , H , tubes containing phosphoric anhydride .
Between the second phosphoric anhydride and the vacuum tube is another tube having sealed on to it , comb-like , seven projecting arms , J J , each containing a strip of palladium foil saturated with hydrogen .
Fio .
4 .
The vacuum tube , K , is 8 inches between the terminals , and f- inch diameter ; it comes next to the comb , and then between it and the pump is a battery of tubes , each 12 inches long , to keep out the mercury .
The first tube , L , is divided by a constriction in the middle , and contains , in the half next the vacuum tube , bright metallic copper , in the other half sulphur .
The three next tubes , M , M , M , contain sulphur , but in the middle of each are placed a few grains of iodine separated from contact with the sulphur by a plug of asbestos on each side .
The sulphur is prepared by keeping it fused at a temperature a little below its boiling-point till bubbles cease to come off , so as to get rid of water and hydrogen compounds .
It is then allowed to cool , and is pounded and sifted so as to get it in the form of granules , averaging a mm. in diameter .
Ignited asbestos is packed at each end of the tubes to keep the contents from blowing out when the vacuum is proceeding , or air is suddenly let in.* Next follows a tube , N , N , constricted in the middle , containing in the first half phosphoric anhydride , and in the second finely powdered dry caustic potash .
A tap , 0 , connects the apparatus with the pump , to prevent diffusion of mercury when the pump is not in use .
All parts of the apparatus were built up in place and sealed together with the blowpipe.-- The glass was new , and the apparatus had been kept apart from mercury until it was sealed together .
The apparatus was exhausted from air , the tap E being closed and * An apparalus of this kind was briefly described by the author in a paper read before the Royal Society in 1885 ( " Radiant Matter Spectroscopy\#151 ; Part II , Samarium , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 176 , p. 693 , June 18 , 1885 ) .
The apparatus was used to prevent mercury from getting into the small radiant-matter tubes employed in the research .
Sir W. Crookes .
1 ) open .
Electrolysis was then commenced ( D being closed ) , and the tap E was slightly turned until the escape of hydrogen into the apparatus was equal to the speed of its generation .
The apparatus was filled , and several times exhausted , until no improvement in the spectrum or stratifications could be seen .
The electrolytic cell was then sealed off at a narrow constriction between the first potash tube , F , and the phosphoric anhydride tube , G. After good exhaustion one of the branch tubes of palladium was heated , when the gauge sank several centimetres .
Exhaustion and re-filling from fresh palladium were repeated until no alteration was detected in the appearance of the strata .
Then , for the first time , I obtained hydrogen strata showing no blue , either throughout the tube or concentrated in front , whilst the most careful examination showed no mercury .
The stratifications were all pink , and showed the hydrogen lines strongly .
Many disadvantages were noticed in the apparatus just described , the chief being the danger of introducing more impurities than were kept out by the copper , sulphur , and iodine tubes .
The palladium method of introducing hydrogen was not altogether satisfactory , as only small quantities could be dealt with , and occasionally at a critical point the store was exhausted .
Also , the electrolytic generator of hydrogen was too small .
It was decided , therefore , to devise and fit up an entirely new piece of apparatus .
In this another method was used for keeping out the mercury .
It had been noticed that the diffusion of mercury from the pump proceeded the more slowly as the distance from the pump and the narrowness of the connecting tubes increased .
It was thought that by introducing a long narrow spiral between the pump and the apparatus , one complicated system of tubes , with their attendant dangers , could be removed ; the result showed this supposition to be correct .
Two vacuum tubes were employed , one having aluminium the other platinum terminals .
The hydrogen generators were increased in size and number , and were so distributed that they could be sealed off one after the other during the progress of the experiment .
Stratifications in Pure Hydrogen .
The arrangement of the apparatus is shown in fig. 5 .
The three hydrogen generators are called Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 .
In No. 1 , the gas is generated by the action of hydrochloric acid on zinc .
This crude hydrogen is only used to drive out the air from the rest of the apparatus and to remove the air dissolved in the liquids .
When it had done its work , the generator was sealed off between Nos. 1 and 2 , at A. It was considered that having the apparatus to begin with full of even somewhat impure hydrogen was better than starting with it full of air .
The second and third generators contain at the bottom a pasty amalgam of mercury and zinc forming one pole , and a piece of The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
40 platinum forming the other pole ; the electrolyte is dilute hydrochloric acid .
Platinum wires sealed through the sides of No. 3 carry the -current from three Grove 's cells to the interior .
After the apparatus has had generator No. 1 removed , a large quantity of hydrogen is passed through from the second generator , with the object of replacing the impure hydrogen by some of a purer quality .
When No. 2 is exhausted , it also is sealed off at B , leaving only the third generator [ with its drying tubes connected with the apparatus .
Before sealing off |No .
2 , filling and exhausting is carried on until the hydrogen shows no [ impurity when spectroscopically examined in a capillary tube attached to the vacuum tube .
The gas from the first and second generators bubbles first through strong caustic soda , C , C , C , to remove any acid Fig. 5 .
c c c carried over from the generators , then through strong sulphuric acid , D , to take away the bulk of the moisture , and thus save the drying tubes .
it then passes through the purifying arrangements more \#166 ; especially connected with the third generator .
Having sealed oft Nos. 1 and 2 , gas is evolved from No. 3 generator .
Hence it passes through strong sulphuric acid in the tube H ; then over a tube filled with granulated caustic soda , F ; and next through a tube , G , tightly packed with phosphoric anhydride .
H and I are two taps , having a reservoir , K , between them .
When full of gas , H and I are closed , and the tubes L and M , after having been exhausted to a high point , can 1 then be fed with limited amounts of pure dry hydrogen by slightly I opening tap I , and closing it when equilibrium is restored between L , [ M , and K. N is a spiral of narrow glass tubing immersed in a beaker I of ice and water .
At O is a tap to keep mercury from diffusing into | the pump if the apparatus has to be left all night .
The vacuum tube , IL , is provided with aluminium poles , and the tube M has the platinum I poles made double for heating purposes , as shown in fig. 3 .
Hydrogen from the first generator was passed through the apparatus I for two hours , when it was sealed off .
The whole apparatus was Sir W. Crookes .
exhausted to a high point , and No. 2 generator was set to work .
Hydrogen was passed several ' times at full pressure through the apparatus for one or two hours , and then exhausted to the stratification point .
During these operations the platinum terminals of one of the vacuum tubes were heated to full redness , and the current was kept on both tubes for some hours to drive off occluded gases .
Finally the second generator was sealed off , and hydrogen used from the remaining generator .
After much washing out with hydrogen at the ordinary pressure , exhaustion and re-filling were continued , and finally the reservoir K was filled , both taps , H and I , being closed .
The tubes were highly exhausted to the non-conducting point , and tap I opened and then closed , so as to introduce a little hydrogen .
H was then opened and again closed , so as to equalise the pressure in 1 , and exhaustion proceeded to the stratification point .
At first the strata were irregularly coloured with a suspicion of blue on one face , but as the operations just described were continued , the blue faces disappeared , the stratifications assumed a pure pink hue , and showed the hydrogen spectrum alone ; no mercury was detected in any part of either tube .
From the first to the eighth filling the strata were pink with a trace of slaty blue colour on the faces next the negative pole .
From the tenth filling the blue faces disappeared , and after the twentieth filling no trace of blue could be seen , and the spectrum of hydrogen alone was visible .
On examining the spectra of the stratified gas in the two tubes , each showed strongly the line spectrum of hydrogen ; but while the spectrum in the platinum-poled tube showed pure red , blue , and green lines on a black ground , that in the aluminium-poled tube showed in addition the fainter hydrogen line spectrum in the yellow and orange .
This result may be due to the greater surface exposed by the aluminium poles ; it was not further examined .
Having at last succeeded in getting hydrogen free from mercury , experiments were instituted to verify the inference that the blue components of the blue and pink strata usually attributed to hydrogen were really due to the presence of a trace of mercury .
Origin of the Blue Component of Stratifications .
1 used an apparatus similar to the last , but with only one generatoi .
If my idea was correct , that the mercury in the course of a few hours diffused into the hydrogen tube from the pump when it was not at work , there ought to be an access of blue faces to the pink buttons after the exhausted apparatus had been at rest .
After filling with hydrogen and exhausting several times , a hydrogen vacuum vas obtained showing no blue faces to the pink strata .
The apparatus v as The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
407 then left all night , and the stratifications examined next morning .
The blue colour to each face was now unmistakably visible .
The refilling with hydrogen and exhausting was then continued .
It was not possible in this way to get the tube entirely free from mercury , although it got less and less , as shown by the diminution of the blue faces .
Occasionally , when no mercury was present , a faint blue edging to some of the front pink strata was seen .
This blue was too faint to show lines in its spectrum .
After much searching the blue tint was traced to the phosphoric drying tubes .
A clean tube was taken for stratifications , and sealed to the apparatus used in the last experiments .
The whole was exhausted to a high point , and one of the phosphoric anhydride tubes was gently heated with a gas flame , the current kept going .
Instantly a flood of blue light swept through the tube , and when concentrated in a narrow constriction the light showed a complicated spectrum which was not recognised : none of the characteristic lines of the phosphorus spectrum could be seen in it .
The tube was cleared of the blue colour by introducing hydrogen and pumping it out a few times , and then hydrogen was introduced and exhaustion continued to the stratification point .
The strata now were pink with no appearance of blue .
Warming the phosphoric anhydride tube at once reproduced the faint blue edging to the pink discs .
This blue colour was different both in tint and intensity to the blue colour produced by mercury , but it was too faint to show a spectrum except in the constricted part .
It is of importance to ascertain whether the body producing this blue colour can be removed from the phosphoric anhydride .
The drying tube was again heated to the subliming point of the anhydride , hydrogen passed in , and the pump worked until the vacuum was almost non-conducting .
The heating , passing in hydrogen , and pumping were several times repeated , the impurities diminishing each time . .
Ultimately a point was reached when , the tube being non-conducting , heating the phosphoric anhydride did not communicate any gas to the vacuum tube .
At this stage the phosphoric anhydride still retained unimpaired its affinity for water .
In any accurate experiment , therefore , the phosphoric anhydride tubes should have a preliminary heating in a vacuum to eliminate the impurity .
This may be done with several tubes at a time , when they can be sealed at each end and preserved for future use .
It is thus seen that this blue glow is due to some impurity in the phosphoric anhydride .
Likewise I have shown from the examination of its spectrum that it is not due to phosphorus .
The glow probably is due to some intermediate oxide of phosphorus .
In any accurate work with the mercury pump , where phosphoric anhydride is used as the drying agent , this source of impurity must not be overlooked .
Sir W. Crookes .
An addition to the apparatus was made , a supplementary tube sealed on containing a grain of corrosive sublimate .
This was used as being non-volatile at the ordinary temperature , but easily vaporised by heat .
The experiment last described was continued , and immediately after the phosphoric blue edge appeared fresh hydrogen was let in and exhaustion continued till the faint blue was eliminated .
The mercury salt was then heated , when immediately a rich blue edging appeared on the face of each pink stratification and the yellow lines of mercury shone out distinctly .
Mercury blue is of a fuller colour than that of the phosphoric blue .
Altering the Colour of Stratifications .
In the 'British Association Reports ' for 1865 ( Abstracts , p. 15 ) , Mr. Gassiot describes the changes produced in the colours of the stratifications by introducing a water resistance in series with the vacuum tube .
Having shown that the blue components of Fiu .
6 .
the stratifications are due to the presence of a trace of mercury with the hydrogen , experiments were commenced to ascertain what difference in the strength of the induced current would be necessary to alter the relative intensities of the pink and blue strata .
Accordingly , I fitted up a resistance , shown in fig. 6 , consisting of a glass tube , A A , 3 feet long and S inch diameter nearly filled with distilled water .
Through a cork , B , at the upper end of the tube a copper wire , C C , passes , and by raising or lowering the wire either the whole resistance of the water or any fraction of it can be thrown into the circuit .
The upper part of the wire is connected with one pole of the coil and the water-is connected with the other pole by means of a small platinum wire sealed through the bottom of the tube .
The wire was pushed down until it touched the platinum at the bottom , thus cutting out the water resistance .
The strength of hammer-spring and the exhaustion were arranged to show good pink and blue discs .
The wire was then gradually withdrawn , when the blue components gradually faded , and at a resistance of 6 inches of water the stratifications were all pink .
Spectroscopic examination showed that in the parti-coloured state mercury was strongly present in all the blue components , together with the C hydrogen line ; the mercury spectrum , however , being in excess .
But when the water resistance was put in , and the buttons were all pink , mercury was still to be detected , but the hydrogen spectrum was more prominent .
The green line of mercury was always the first to appear , driD r2 \#151 ; 25 \#151 ; 35 " 10 \lt ; T The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
409 and when the hydrogen became visible the first line to appear was the red .
That the change from parti-coloured stratifications to all pink is occasioned by an alteration in the intensity of the spark , is also shown by the fact that altering the make and break of the coil produces the same change as putting in the Avater resistance .
Screwing up the hammer-spring so as to induce strong magnetism in the core and high potential of spark , gives pink and blue parti-coloured buttons .
Weakening the spring , and thus weakening the magnetism , gives buttons which are all pink .
I cannot , however , in this way cause the migration of the blue buttons to one single button in front .
This phenomenon is produced only by an alteration of the exhaustion .
Conversely , an alteration of the exhaustion will not change particoloured buttons to buttons of all one colour ; this requires a change in electrical energy .
I consider the water resistance acts thus :\#151 ; At the same rarefaction , hydrogen conducts the current better than mercury vapour .
With a strong induction-spark at a certain degree of exhaustion , the conducting power of the rarefied hydrogen is not sufficient to carry the Avliole of the current ; some of it , therefore , is conducted through the mercury vapour , Avhen the intensity of the blue drowns the feebler colour of the hydrogen .
When , however , a resistance of 6 inches of water ( equal to about 500,000 ohms ) is inserted , the current is so Aveakened that the hydrogen can carry the Avhole of it , and the blue of the mercury is not seen .
Conclusions ; Chiefly Theoretical .
The phenomenon of blue faces on the pink discs is probably due to some such action as the folloAvingAt the exhaustion necessary to give stratifications , there is a wide dark space round the negative pole .
Here the negative electrons ( Radiant Matter ) , issuing from the pole with enormous velocity , have sufficient energy to clear a space in front of them to a distance varying with the degree of exhaustion .
Dr. A. Schuster considers that the discharge through mercury vapour in a vacuum tube , when quite free from air , will not give rise to stratifications , nor to the dark negative space.* My own experiments !
shoAv that the dark space will form in pure mercury vapour .
Whichever vieAv may be correct , there is no doubt that if stratifications in mercury vapour are not altogether unknown , they are much more difficult to produce than similar phenomena in hydrogen or other-diatomic gases .
At a certain critical stage of the exhaustion , Avhen * Dr. A. Schuster , " Experiments on the Discharge of Electricity through Gases , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 37 , p. 318 .
f ' Journ. of the Inst. Electrical Engineers , ' vol. 20 , p. 44 .
Sir W. Crookes .
both hydrogen and mercury are present , I obtain both mercury and hydrogen strata .
The following experiments appear to show that the presence of hydrogen* has a considerable influence on the behaviour of mercury vapour in vacuum tubes .
A tube with aluminium terminals had been attached to the pump for several days , and consequently mercury had diffused in and condensed on its sides .
The tube was exhausted until , under the electric discharge , it phosphoresced of a brilliant green and was near the non-conducting point .
It was heated very strongly with a Bunsen flame , when a faint pink luminosity was observed between the poles , the spectrum of mercury being absent .
The tube was allowed to cool and a little hydrogen was introduced , when the usual pink stratifications appeared .
On heating the tube to about the same temperature as before blue faces showed on the pink buttons , and the mercury spectrum was seen throughout the tube , especially in the neighbourhood of the negative pole .
It is known that in a vacuum tube , at an exhaustion approaching the stratification-point , any slight obstruction , such as constriction in the tube , or a series of wires sealed in , will cause luminous strata to hang round the obstruction .
In a similar way , the hydrogen strata afford an anchorage , as it were , for the mercury , each hydrogen luminosity having a little blue glow of mercury hanging on to it ; whereas , were there no hydrogen , no mercury stratifications would be seen .
The pink and blue luminosities show where the electrons and gaseous atoms meet ; when the speed of the electrons is suddenly diminished , the shock throws the atom into greater vibration , which , being communicated to the ether , produces vibrations of definite wavelengths , constituting the special spectrum of the atom .
The dense mercury atom is not driven back so much as the lighter hydrogen atom\#151 ; hence the blue front to the pink buttons .
A very little difference in the exhaustion suffices to break the adhesion between the mercury and the hydrogen ; then the mercury vapour diffusing along the tube meets the electrons from the negative pole and is swept back to the head of the hydrogen strata , and becomes apparent as a single button of blue light .
Radiant Matter .
Electrons .
I have spoken of " Radiant Matter " and " Electrons " as if they were identical .
Nearly twenty-five years ago I was led by experiments in highly rarefied tubes to assume the existence of matter in an ultra-gaseous state .
Later , in a lecture delivered before the British Association at the Sheffield Meeting , 1879 , t I first used the * Possibly another gas would do as well .
Hydrogen was used because iu this instance the hydrogen generator was attached to the tube .
t ' Chemical News , ' vol. 40 , pp. 91 , 104 , 127 .
The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
411 \#166 ; expression " Radiant Matter , " or matter in the ultra-gaseous state , to explain the novel phenomena of phosphorescence , trajectory , shadows , mechanical action , magnetisation , and intense heat .
" In studying this fourth state of matter , " I said , " we seem at length to have within our grasp and obedient to our control , the little indivisible particles which with good warrant are supposed to constitute the physical basis of the universe .
We have seen that in some of its properties radiant matter is as material as this table , whilst in other properties it almost assumes the character of radiant energy .
We have actually touched the borderland where matter and force seem to merge into one another."* In twenty-five years one 's theories may change , although the facts on which they are based remain immovable .
What I then called " Radiant Matter " now passes as " Electrons , " a term coined by Dr. Johnstone Stony , to represent the separate units of electricity , which is as atomic as matter .
What was puzzling and unexplained on the " Radiant Matter " theory is now precise and luminous on the " Electron " theory .
Thus my early hypotheses fall into order by the substitution of one expression for the other .
A chemical ion consists of a material nucleus or atom of matter constituting by far the larger portion of the mass , and a few electrons or atoms of electricity .
The electrons are the same as the " satellites " of Lord Kelvin and the " corpuscles " or " particles " of J. J. Thomson .
Electrons probably leave the negative pole with a velocity nearly uniform , modified to a considerable extent by the degree of exhaustion , and to a less extent by the electromotive force behind them .
Many experiments\#151 ; the details I must leave to a future occasion show that the liberated electrons do not behave as a gas , they have not properties dependent on inter-collisions , mean free path , \amp ; c.they act more like a fog or mist , are mobile and carried about by a current of air to which they give temporary conducting powers , clinging to positively electrified bodies and thereby losing mobility , and settling on the walls of the containing vessel if left quiet .
On the other hand , the crowd of hydrogen or mercury atoms , by virtue of molecular motion and inter-collisions , act as gases .
Whilst their mean free paths are conditioned by the degree of exhaustion , there may be amongst them a certain number of free paths differing widely on each side of the mean .
Under the influence of the electromotive force , and at the right degree of exhaustion , these atoms arrange themselves in groups , !
while the rushing swarm of electrons * ' Chemical News , ' vol. 40 , p , 130 .
f In an address delivered before the Institution of Electrical Engineers , January 15th , 1891 , I gave an outline of a theory of stratifications in rarefied gases .
\#166 ; The following quotation renders my meaning clear " If , in any much fre-| querited street , at some time when the stream of traffic runs almost equally in botii directions , we take our stand at a window from which we can overlook the passing The Stratifications of Hydrogen .
driven from the negative pole meet them and render them visible .
According to J. J , Thomson the mass of an electron is about the 1/ 700th part of that of the hydrogen atom , and as these masses start from the negative pole in a vacuum tube with a velocity of the order of half that of light , it is easy to see that their heating , phosphorescent , and mechanical power must be stupendous .
The basis of the Electron , as I foreshadowed in 1879 in the case of Radiant Matter , 'is probably the same in all cases\#151 ; the Protyle* from which the chemical atoms were assumed to be formed .
On the two-fluid theory , the electrons constitute free negative electricity , and the rest of the chemical atom is charged positively^ although a free positive electron is not known , It seems to me simpler to use the original one-fluid theory of Franklin , and to say that the electron is the atom or unit of electricity . !
Then a so-called crowd , we shall notice that the throng on the footway is not uniformly distributed , but is made up of knots\#151 ; we might alinost say blocks\#151 ; interrupted by spaces which are comparatively open , we may easily conceive in what manner these knots or groups are formed : some few persons walking rather more slowly than the average rate alightly retard the movements of others* whether travelling in the same or in an opposite direction .
Thus a temporary obstruction is created .
The passengers behind catch up to the block and increase it , and those in front , passing on unchecked at their former rate , leave a comparatively vacant space .
If a crowd is moving all in the same direction , the fofmation of these groups becomes more distinct .
Hence mere differences in speed suffice to resolve a multitude of passengers into alternating gaps and knots .
Instead of observing moving men and women , suppose we experiment on little particles of some substance , such as sand .
If we mix the particles with water in a horizontal tube and set them in rhythmical agitation , we shall see very similar results , the powder sorting itself with regularity into alternate heaps and blank spaces .
If we pass to yet more minute substances , we observe the behaviour of the molecules of a rarefied gas when submitted to an induction current .
The molecules here are free , of course , from any caprice , and simply follow the law I seek to illustrate , and though originally in a state of rampant disorder , yet under the influence of the electric rhythm , they arrange themselves into well-defined groups or stratifications."\#151 ; 'Journ .
of the Inst. Elect. Engineers , ' vol. 20 , p. 10 .
* * Report of the Fifty-sixth Meeting of the British Association , ' Birmingham , 1886 , p. 568 Address to the Chemical Section .
t " The theory of definite electrolytical or electro-chemical action appears to me to touch immediately upon the absolute quantity of electricity or electric power belonging to different , bodies . . . .
And when comes the fact that the elec- tricity which we appear to be capable of loosening from its habitation for a while , and conveying from place to place , whilst it retains its chemical , can be measured out and being so measured , is found to be as definite in its action as any of those portions which , remaining associated with the particles of matter , give them their chemical relation j we seem to have found the link which connects the pro- ; portion of that we have evolved to the proportion of that belonging to the particles in their natural state."\#151 ; Faraday 's ' Experimental Researches in Electricity , ' par .
852 .
" The equivalent weights of bodies are simply those quantities of them which contain equal quantities of electricity ; , . .
it being the electbicitY which Radio-activity and the Electron Theory .
413 negatively charged chemical atom is one having a surplus of electrons , the number depending on the valency , whilst a positively charged atom is one having a deficiency of electrons .
Differences of electrical charge may thus be likened to debits and credits in one 's banking account , the electrons acting as current coin of the realm .
" Badio-activity and the Electron Theory .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.B.S. Beceived February 4 , \#151 ; Bead February 6 , 1902 .
Electrons emanating from radio-active bodies behave like material particles , and are .
impeded by the molecules of the surrounding medium , in contrast with ether waves , which are not thus affected except by absorption .
It is not difficult to put these indications to test .
A pair of shallow cells , AB ( fig. 1 ) , T5 mm. deep and 25 mm. square , were made by cementing slips of glass to a thick glass plate .
Or* if we adopt the atomic theory or phraseology , then the atoms of bodies which are equivalents to each other in their ordinary chemical action have equal quantities of electricity naturally associated with them."\#151 ; Ibid. , par .
869 .
" In former investigations of the action of electricity it was shown . . .
that the quantity of electric power transferred onwards was in proportion to , and was definite for , a given quantity of matter moving as anion or cation onwards in the electrolytic line of action ; and there was strong reason to believe that each of the particles of matter then dealt with , had associated with it a definite amount of electrical force , constituting its force of chemical affinity/ '\#151 ; Ibid. , par .
1707 .
( In all the above quotations the italics and capitals are Faraday 's .
) " It is therefore extremely natural to suppose that . . .
every molecule of the cation is charged with a certain fixed quantity of positive electricity , which is the same for the molecules of all cations , and that every molecule of the anion is charged with an equal quantity of negative electricity."\#151 ; Clerk Maxwell 's ' Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism/ First Edition , vol. 1 , 1873 , p. 308 .
" This definite quantity of electricity we shall call the molecular charge .
If it wrere known , it would be the most natural unit of electricity."\#151 ; Ibid. , p. 311 .
u Suppose . . .
we call this constant molecular charge , for convenience in description , one molecule of electricity."\#151 ; Ibid. , p. 312 .
( The italics are Maxwell 's .
) " Nature presents us with a single definite quantity of electricity . . .
For each chemical bond which is ruptured within an electrolyte a certain quantity of electricity traverses the electrolyte , which is the same in all cases."\#151 ; Gr .
Johnstone Stony , " On the Physical Units of Nature , " British Association Meeting , 1874 , Section A , ' Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1881 .
" The same definite quantity of either positive or negative electricity moves always with each univalent ion , or with every unit of affinity of a multivalent ion .
" \#151 ; Helmholtz , Faraday Lecture , 1881 .
" Every monad atom has associated with it a certain definite quantity of electricity ; every dyad has twdce this quantity associated wdtli it ; every triad three times as much , and so on."\#151 ; O. Lodge , " On Electrolysis , " ' British Association Report , ' 1885 .
VOL. LXIX .
2 G determines the equivalent number , because it determines the combining force .

