[ 1029 ] XIII Researches on the Structure , Organizatio , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia.\#151 ; Part IX .
, Section 3 .
On Diademodon .
By H. G. Seeley , Received January 12 , \#151 ; Read March 1 , 1894 .
[ Plate 89 .
] 1:e South African fossils with broad , flat , tuberculate tooth-crowns of mammalian type all from the eastern part of Cape Colony .
Some of the most interesting are oly known from fragments , which indicate nothing but the middle region of the sail .
They are apparently extremely rare .
Two species , with teeth well preserved , ur found ten years ago by Dr. Kannemeyer , at Wonderboom , and presented to te South African Museum , Cape Town , where they were brought under my notice by ft Peringuey .
Others were found in a fragmentary condition by Mr. Alfred IvOWN , of Aliwal North , to the west of that town , in a bed which appeared to me t be reconstructed .
There is no doubt that the fossils are from the upper part of te Karroo formation , probably of Permian age , and below the Stormberg beds , in viich Saurischian fossils are found allied to those of the Trias of Europe .
If the teeth had occurred isolated , without the means of demonstrating their rsemblance to Theriodonts , by comparison of what remains of the skull , it would have len legitimate to have referred them to Mammals .
There is no evidence of affinity ecept resemblances to Theriodonts , which show that the skull had pre-frontal and |st-frontal bones , and therefore may be inferred to have had the lower jaw com-psite .
The teeth are such as might be expected , perhaps , in a Monotreme Mammal , iid their interest is therefore the greater that there is no ground for suspecting them \gt ; be mammalian , other than a general resemblance of the crown to the crowns ot ie true teeth of Ornithorhynchus .
That teeth of this type should occur in a group 1 animals in which the shoulder-girdle and pelvis have monotreme characters , and in hich the principal limb bones are intermediate in character between Monotremes id Marsupials , is evidence of a closer approximation between Mammals and Pep tiles ian has been manifest .
And so far as I am aware the only Theriodont characters ow remaining to distinguish these animals from Mammals are the composite lowej* which is covered externally by the dentary bone along its whole length , and the resence of the pre-frontal , post-frontal , and transverse bones in the skull .
The genus Diademodon is founded on the characters of the molar teeth .
They are wider in the maxillary bone than in the mandible , with the crown low , sub-quadrate or transversely ovate in the hinder maxillary teeth .
There are two or three cusps on the internal and on the external borders , with one tubercle on the anterior border and several tubercles on the posterior border .
There is a tubercle in the centre o the crown , which is connected with the principal outer cusp by a transverse ridge and connected with the two principal internal cusps by one or two ridges .
Th characters are most marked in the hinder molar teeth , but in the early teeth cusp and ridges are less developed , and the pre-molar teeth are small .
The same pl\amp ; can be traced in the crowns of three or four species which are distinguished by th form of the crown , and modifications of its ridges and tubercles .
Diademodon raa belong to the Gomphodontia .
Diademodon tetragonus .
( Plate 89 , figs. 1-10 .
) In 1884 Dr. Kannemeyer presented to the South African Museum , Cape Town , son fragments of jaws and teeth of a small animal found near Burghersdorp , which is chara terized by having quadrate tuberculate crowns to molar teeth of a mammalian The materials comprise portions of the right and left maxillary bones , with four mol teeth in sequence in good preservation , and a socket for a fifth tooth is indicated j * the anterior fracture ( Plate 89 , fig. 1 ) .
The hard palate extends between the tee which are preserved .
In another fragment are the roots of three pre-molar teeti There are two isolated teeth , one the crown of a pre-molar and the other probably t early molar ; and there are three fragments of compressed fluted canme teeth ( fig. I and what appears to be a portion of the lower jaw ( fig. 4 ) .
All of these rema\#174 ; I refer to one individual .
From them I have separated teeth which belong ) animals of a different type .
There is no indication of incisor teeth , which may e presumed to have been present , if the canines are rightly referred to this fossil , foi am not aware that canines and molars are developed in these animals without mew unless that condition is found in Tritylodon ( IX .
S 2 , p. 1025 ) .
It seems not improbab that there may have been three small teeth in the position of pre-mo ars an se m the position of molars , though the fragments only demonstrate five .
The skull n* have been three inches long . . .
, . . . .
Q ... The genus Diademodon , based upon this species , is defined as having m W quadrate or transversely ovate form , characterized by flattened crowns , which have ^ margins crenulate , and the crenulations rising into two or three cusps on outer borders .
These cusps are connected by transverse ndges which maydeve P or crenulations .
The distinctive character of these teeth is , the elevaho^ the cusps makes the crown concave from side to side , secon y , a cusps on the inner side are nearly equal , so that not only is there an oblique r dge from the hinder cusp to the principal external cusp , but there is ako , m the p 1 ... .
from the first inner cusp towards the mida m AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
' he tooth , on which small longitudinal cusps are developed .
These cusps are more jss worn down with use , but , when not so worn , is distinguished oi allied genera by the well-defined elevated anterior and posterior ridges of uael which are crenulate , and in some cases slightly cuspidate .
me type species is named Diademodon tetrag , in reference to the form of the ier molar teeth .
Then the right and left maxillary bones are fitted together , as preserved , they give fence of some lateral crushing of the jaws , by which the bones of the palate have st a little displaced , sliding over each other .
What remains is concavely channelled , a jaws , as adapted , increase i n width from inch in front to inch behind , and ee manifestly wider apart before the specimen was broken ; so that , while the aillary teeth diverge backward in the usual way , the palate between them was fully s ride as in any of the allied genera .
The crowns of the teeth are in close contact it each other , and set close into the jaw , so that the unenamelled area between the Dilum and the thin alveolar margin is very narrow , and only just visible above the \gt ; e. The side of the maxillary bone external to the four hindermost molars is nened , very slightly concave in length , and as slightly convex from above dow7n-sd .
Only about ^-q inch of its depth is preserved , and the greatest length of the f maxilla , as preserved , is ^y inch .
n the left side the crowns of the teeth are broken , so that they are not easily spared on the two sides , but apparently the last tooth is lost , and the three in lance are similar in size and character to the teeth on the right side , he fourth tooth on the right side is imperfectly developed , its crown being on a fi with the alveolar margin .
There is no space for any root on the inner side , but nail root is seen on the outer side descending through the jaw , and this root pears to be cylindrical .
This tooth has the crown slightly wider than the tooth in \#166 ; ct , and the width and size steadily diminish to the first of the series preserved , b antero-posterior extent of these four teeth is -j^y inch .
The width of the )lfth is -fa inch , and of the first is between inch and fa inch .
The crowns , ni the exception of the first , are a little wider than long , and have the aspect being four-sided with the angles rounded .
This is probably the consequence of the ^h being in contact back and front ; and of the inner and outer sides , which are etly inflated and convex , having the cusps so developed as to give the effect of ll'ar extension on the inner and outer margins of the series .
The crowns are not all 'bhe same height above the jaw , the first being lower than the second , which is naest , so that the grinding surface is convex from front to back , and the cusps of inner side are a little higher than those of the outer side , though this probably lliCates that the external surface of the maxillary bone , instead of being vertical , " !
inclined a little outward .
The height of the highest point of the second tooth in 2 .
18 ^ above the alveolar border , while the height of the first is about 2\#171 ; mob .
Seen from the external surface , each tooth in which the crown is perfect IBCCCXCIV.\#151 ; b. 6 q and above the jaw , has a distinct cingulum , which marks the lower limit of its enatn Above this the side of the crown is moderately convex both from front to back a ; from above downward ; triangular in outline , with a principal cusp in front , and , [ the case of the second tooth , with two minor cusps behind .
This cutting edge , finely crenulate and sharp , and the crenulations , like the cusps , make minute wrinki on the summit of the enamel .
The minor cusps are defined by slight superior notch and lateral groovings of the enamel on both the inner and outer surfaces .
Hencef the jaws were closed , such teeth would give no indication of the form of k crown .
" On the inner alveolar border there are two principal cusps , almost equally develop , with a third smaller cusp behind , though the third cusp does not appear to be pres* in the first tooth .
The principal cusps have sharp cutting edges and are divided fc , each other by an angular notch .
The inner surface of the crown is rather mt inflated than the external surface ( fig. 2 ) .
When the teeth are seen from the palrf aspect each crown is margined back and front by a slightly elevated ridge of enacl .
That in front connects the anterior cusps on the inner and outer side by a curve wh would be concave except that it develops a small cusp in the middle .
The seed cusp on the inner side is connected with the principal cusp on the outer side ta strong angular transverse ridge , slightly crenulate on the sharp summit This ridge divides the crown into anterior and posterior portions .
On the middled its front margin , but not rising above it or from it , is a small cusp ; a see d accessory cusp by its side rises towards the external cusp , and a short sharp ridge also finelv crenulated , extends from the first inner cusp , but does not reach it minor cusps just described .
These minor cusps vary a little in the successive ten The posterior half of the crown slopes down to the low ridge which margins* posterior border , and thus forms a concavity , defined in front by the minor ca which follow the principal cusps .
Upon the posterior border are four minute which have a sharp crenulate superior edge ; the inner two are a little the lair and all are of slight elevation . .
The general effect of this cuspidate structure is that there is a sharp cusp_ girdle , surrounding the sub-quadrate or sub-ovate crown , with one cusp stroi developed on the outer margin , and two strongly developed on the inner margin , * the tooth is traversed transversely by strong sharp ridges connecting tiese \#166 ; and that the minor cusps give the aspect of a median broken n ge runnl " % tudinally down the teeth , at a lower level than the principal transverse n ges The teeth show signs of wear , the first molar having all the cusps partiaUy down .
In the second tooth , the wear only affects the anterior margin , tooth is unworn ; and the fourth , as already remarked , is not yet My cu .
With fragmentary remains like these there is more or ess . .
associating the specimens , but the fragment which I have regarded as contain^ roT of pre-molars is identical in texture of bone of the palate and of the exte AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1033 j fragment belongs to the left side , but something is lost between it and the th/ fragment of the maxillary bone ( fig. 1 ) .
The three teeth , indicated by the bases \gt ; .
*e crowns on a level with the alveolar margin , occupy rather more than i % inch back to front .
They rapidly diminish in size anteriorly .
The first small tooth ^ lagitudinaliy ovate , and the third is transversely ovate .
The jaw fragment in Ithfi they are contained , appears to indicate a rapid decrease in the height of the 'll'Jere is an isolated tooth , with a fractured root , which is no larger in transverse 3econ than the smallest of these teeth .
It is possible that it belonged to the o ] jsite side .
It has a strong lateral cusp which I suppose to be external , and a trasverse ridge from it in a T-shape , extending to the cusp of the opposite side , and iiving the crown unequally into anterior and posterior parts .
The tooth is worn Wit use , but shows some indication of minor cusps at its front margin .
.violenceof the mandible.\#151 ; There is a small fragment which I regard as part ot thelentary bone of the right side , fractured so as to show two teeth .
It is remark-ftblfor the relatively small size of* the teeth , which are much narrower than the last inaillary molars ( Plate 89 , fig. 4 ) preserved in the bone in D. tetragonus .
he fragment of the jaw is too imperfect for detailed description , but appears to \#171 ; lw what , I think , may be the origin of the coronoid processes , below which the jaw is trcavated as in Theriodonts .
If so , the specimen has lost a third of its depth , and iwold indicate a robust lower jaw .
The Theriodont jaw is frequently constricted in fitsower part , especially on the inner side , below the roots of the teeth , and such a coilition , I suppose , to account for the apparent convexity of the sides of this spiimen .
The fossil , owing , perhaps , to state of preservation , gives no evidence / of rie lower jaw being composite ; though it has no character which is not Theriodont .
ilfc fragment is about inch long , fully -^o inch thick , on a level with the teeth at th base of the coronoid , and as preserved -\#163 ; q inch deep , which is less than the depth of he penultimate tooth .
hat tooth has a long sub-cylindrical root ( fig. 5 ) , which tapers somewhat as it l defends ; and a low crown , which scarcely rises more than a tenth of an inch above ib lower jaw , and is slightly convex .
The crown is somewhat longer than wide , beag -2^ ) inch long , and slightly more than inch wide .
Its border is surrounded hsmall cusps , and there is a transverse ridge as well as a median longitudinal ridge olsmall tubercles .
This tooth appears to be worn on the inner side , so that the pjncipal cusp is removed if it was developed .
The last tooth in the jaw is hot fully c*r .
Enough is shown to indicate a strong external cusp with two smaller cusps blind it , followed by a third which appears to be in the median line .
The cusps on inner side are similar , and possibly a little larger .
The two principal innei and '^cr cusps are connected by a transverse ridge , on each side of the middle of which considerable tubercle , which helps to suggest the same idea of a cross ornament , as in the maxillary teetb .
The transverse ridge divides the tooth in the \amp ; J , way into anterior and posterior areas , but the anterior border is not exposed .
The external texture of the bone is marked by parallel ridges very similar to , e grain seen in the skull bones of Theriodonts .
Owing to the fragmentary naW of the remains there is no direct proof that this specimen is reptilian , and a determination rests upon comparison with other South African fossils .
Perl^ the teeth , which most closely resemble it in form of crown , are some of the mar teeth described by Professor Marsh under the name There is no o*er approach to a well known mammalian fossil type ; though the resemblance^ perhaps , as close to the hinder molars of , of which Ctenacodon is re esentative .
Its approximation to the molar teeth of in the foriiof the crown is not less noticeable in the low crown surrounded by tubercles and cipg and crossed by ridges , though the long single root is an interesting difference of the , The crowns of the molar teeth are not less mammal-like than those of though the arrangement of the tubercles is different .
The smaller size of the mandibular molars is probably a generic or family char\amp ; er of Diademodon , and may account for a maxillary tooth in another species D. Bro % which is worn with use , having the external and internal cusps still prominent , vile the middle of the crown is concavely excavated .
There are two isolated wide molar teeth of the left side , found at the same loos by Dr. Kannemeyee , which possibly indicate a second species , though they made the hinder molar teeth of D. tetragonus .
The teeth are of similar size , ~r6 inch long , with low crowns between -2%d inch wide , with the first measuring -2 % inch from front to back , and the slightly longer .
The crowns ( figs. 6 , 9 ) are transversely ovate in section , anddi roots are compressed , tapering to a wedge form by front to back compression , me also becoming narrower from side to side towards the basal termination ( figs. 7 , t ) which is not quite perfect ( fig. 8 ) .
The fracture shows that there was a pulp ijjritji Towards the base of the root there is a longitudinal groove in the middle of each u in one specimen , but no indication of a terminal division of the root ( fig* 8 ) .
j ^ The enamel of the crown extends evenly round the tooth ( figs. 10 , 7 ) whicftwi not suddenly contract below it .
The external and internal cusps aie pronwrt On what I suppose to be the outer side there is a principal cusp rising in a triad with a secondary cusp on its hinder border , and on the inner side there arff\#171 ; cusps of nearly equal elevation , only slightly divided .
^ JB ] These cusps are connected by anterior and posterior ridges , with a single tub# in the middle of the anterior ridge ( figs. G , 9 ) , and several crenulations along posterior ridge .
Both these ridges form sharp cutting edges .
The central part oi crown is occupied by a longitudinal convexity or low ridge which extends transvetf across it .
Its posterior side is diversified by a tubercle or two , and on the ante* side there are several fine elevated folds ol enamel , one .
longitudinal and an$ AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1035 .
* indicating* a structure which is substantially the same as that seen in the J from Aliwal .
The minor folds of enamel probably vary with every tooth m the di as -n the teeth of mammals , for these two molars present some differences in j| \lt ; pjie central convexity which is a feature of the teeth of this species , both in e'ower and upper jaws , is much less prominent than the external and internal l wjjjch it connects together .
In the event of this proving a distinct species it a- be known as Diademodon brachytiara .
Diademodon mastacus .
( Plate 89 , figs. 11 , 12 ) .
Jnong the specimens entrusted to me by Mr. Alfred Brown is a portion of a ffnaxillary bone ( Plate 89 , fig. 11 ) , with the adjacent elements of the skull so far e)rved as to give its contour ; and it indicates sockets or crowns of eight molar ei It gives evidence of a head which was probably not less than 5 inches long , tc2i inches wide at the back of the orbit ; with the skull flattened above , and the aillary bones nearly vertical .
Ike fragment as preserved is 1inch long .
It is fractured , so that the nasal \gt ; bs are not seen , and so as to show a median vertical plate dividing the posterior m. The palate , in front , is formed by palatal plates of the maxillary bones , lih unite in a median suture , forming a hard palate ; and the lateral border of dial plate excavates the maxillary bone .
Its inner alveolar margin forms a siical wall against the teeth ( fig. 11 ) , which is thin , and defines the dentary tract ; oseriorly it may be replaced by the palatine .
The state of the specimen does not enit detailed description of the orbit , or other areas , though the orbit appears to s od as far forward as the penultimate molar tooth , and to be lateral and nearly eiical .
The vertical maxillary bone , as preserved , exceeds an inch in depth , is ouave from front to back , has a distinct rounded ridge above the posteiior molai e*h , which descends a little as it extends backward , but does not appear to become tush elevated , though it renders the bone between it and the oibit somewhat o ?
ave .
The maxillary bone is traversed by a large internal vacuity , shown in the Lnerior fracture .
The jaws converge forward , but there is no appreciable cou-^ence of the maxillary bones upward , though the vertical contour is slightly iovex .
It is not possible to define either the lachrymal , or the pre-frontal bone , and -We is no portion of the frontal or nasal surface preserved .
Yet these imperfect Plications show a family relationship between this specimen and otheis which are bt , er preserved , sufficient I believe to determine its organic relations .
-he teeth are , perhaps , more interesting than those in any other fossil , on account *fehe remarkable development of low cusps upon the transversely oblong flattene The first tooth preserved , which is only indicated by a portion of the soc et , she smallest .
The roots of succeeding teeth are in distinct alveoli , are transversely \#174 ; tte , almost in contact with each other at the base of the crown , and have ovate pulp cavities , shown in the three teeth succeeding the first socket , from which th crowns have been broken away .
Then follow three crowns in fair preservation , behind which is a space covered wit matrix , which probably contained a small molar not yet cut .
Two of the crowns which are best preserved show that the cusps were worn with u , ( fig. 12 , b , c ) .
The size of the crown appears to augment to the fourth or fifth of t !
series , of which the specimen gives evidence ( fig. 12 , c ) , and then to diminish to theei of the series .
The elevation of the crown was probably greatest in the middle of t\gt ; , series , so that in a longitudinal direction the crowns were convex from front to hac , as is frequently seen in the maxillary teeth of Mammals and Theriodonts .
In tk fossil the part of the crown which rose above the gum has the enamel of a rich orar^-brown colour , traversed by numerous vertical cracks , while below this transverse lie the enamel is white .
The transverse width of the root of the fourth tooth indicail is inch .
The antero-posterior extent of this tooth is -2no inch .
The ante-posterior extent of the three fractured roots ( fig* 11 ) is inch , and the transvee width of the first of the three is inch .
The three crowns preserved ( fig. 12 ) vary in size , aspect , and in preservation , le first ( c ) is -j^o inch wide and inch from front to back .
The second ( b ) is -270- nh wide and -\#163 ; $ inch from front to back .
The third crown , which is imperfectly expod ( a ) , is -jSL inch wide and less than -\#163 ; $inch from front to back .
Owing to weanf the cusps , their original form is not so evident as the position of the cusps , but itis manifest that the cusps are arranged in two series , internal and external .
The external cusps are two in number ( fig. 12 ) , a large anterior cusp , adjacent ta smaller posterior cusp , and both apparently worn down so as to be connected toget i like a figure eight ( 8 ) .
The inner side of the tooth is more rounded from front o back .
Here there are three smaller cusps , which increase in size from behind The posterior border between these anterior and posterior cusps is concave SUP\#174 ; W ' and occupied by about five minute cusps in the first crown preserved ( c ) , but ie number appears to be smaller in the subsequent teeth , though the or er is nojPy exposed .
The anterior margin of the tooth is also concave on its superior surface , k appears to be occupied , as in the other species , by a single small cusp , which is o These cusps , upon the inner and outer sides of the teeth , give off transverse crenuM ridges ; which extend from the cusps upon the anterior and inner borders towards anterior cusp on the external border .
From that cusp a ridge descends towardsh cusp1 opposite to it on the inner border , which has the effect ofdrvrdmgthecinto anterior and posterior areas .
All these ridges are low , and effect is to a division of the space between the cusps into three areas , larS 1 ; e4 to the first external cusp and second internal cusp ; secondly , an an*e , enclosed by the transverse ridges upon the crown , which inc u e so t bars ; and , thirdly , the small anterior area which slopes from the anterior n " to the anterior cusp .
and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1037 t is possible that the teeth of this species may not be separable from those of i hoanathus .
There is nothing with which these teeth can be compared except molars of some of the higher groups of Mammals .
It may be convenient to state t the specimen is not referred to the Mammalia because , first , its teeth have but one t though this character appears to be less important from the reputed double roots in 'tylodon ; secondly , the crowns can be shown to be a modification of the crowns genera in which the post-frontal bones preserve their individuality , and the skull , essential points , is Theriodont and not Mammalian .
Nevertheless , the border between the two groups , Mammals and Reptiles , appears be closely approached when the dentition exhibits the complexity of cuspidate , Wns found in this fossil , to which no Reptile has made a closer approximation than 3 genus Teius , in which I have figured internal and external cusps of a simpler 3e than this fossil shows ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ 1888 , vol. 44 , p. 139 ) .
In that genus Lizard , there are no accessory lateral cusps or connecting ridges , except the one ge which unites the one internal cusp to the one external cusp .
The lower jaw , lich is always made of several bones in Theriodonts , is not known , in this fossil , in Tritylodon , The transverse bone of the Theriodont palate is not shown , * that region of the skull is not preserved .
The reptilian nature of these teeth is ether evidenced by the structure of the skull in , and in mphognathus .
Diademodon Browni .
( Plate 89 , figs. 13 , 14 ) .
In Mr. Alfred Brown 's collection from Aliwal North , is the middle poition of le skull , fractured transversely back and front , showing the palate , and sockets or \gt ; ots of molar teeth , and one molar with a crown well preserved , but worn down ith use .
At the transverse fracture in front , the skull is slightly distorted by feral compression , and measures 1 inc^ from the palate to the roof of what presumably the nasal region .
The transverse width , which is reduced by lateral impression , is l-j^y inch . .
\#166 ; ' The skull is flattened above , nearly vertical at the sides , though generally a little onvex from above downward , and concave from front to back .
The head widens as it extends backward to the orbit , the upper anterior border of which is 2-1i(J inches wide .
At the posterior fracture , which is behind the dentary ract , the width indicated is 2-*0- inches , so that in a length of two inches the width )f the jaw is doubled by posterior divergence of the alveolar areas .
The posterior fracture passes through the frontal and post-frontal bones , which are both thick , the former exceeding ^ inc^\gt ; an(* iatter measuring \ inch deep on the hinder border .
The superior border of the orbit is well preserved on the right^ side only .
The transverse width between the orbits appears to have been la-o inch .
As in so many of these skulls , the post-frontal bone has its inner border raised above the pre-frontal bone , along the line of contact .
The transverse width of the frontal 1038 PROFESSOR H. Or .
SEELEY ON THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , interspace between these bones does not appear to have exceeded ^ longitudinal width of the post-frontal , from front to back\#151 ; from the orbit t the temporal vacuity\#151 ; appears to have been nearly J inch .
At the posterk fracture , the elevated hinder borders of the post-frontal bones are converging \lt ; c though they would contribute to form a narrow crest between the temporal vacuitie as in most genera of the Theriodont group .
There is a very slight median ridg on the frontal bone , extending longitudinally forward .
The pre-frontal makes tl superior border of the orbit in front .
Below that bone is the lachrymal , though i limits are not clearly defined .
The length of the pre-frontal is 1-/ q inch .
The is no clear indication of the anterior limit of the frontal bone , though it may a extend further forward than the orbit .
The median suture is distinct between nasal bones , but the transverse suture between the nasal and frontal is less evidei .
The maxillary bones form the lateral wall of the jaw , but do not appear to extend jp upon its upper surface .
A longitudinal concavity ( fig. 13 ) extends in front of the orbit , below which the* are somewhat large foramina , inch above the alveolar margin , situate upon is convexity which extends longitudinally upon the lower part of the external surf\#169 ; of the maxillary bone .
The transverse width of the palate is less than that of the pre-orbital roof of ie head , owing to the lateral convexity of the maxillary bones .
Its transverse extenl measurement over the teeth at the anterior fracture is 1 inch , and the indieatd transverse measurement at the last tooth is 2^ inches .
The teeth are closely parallel to the external alveolar border .
They increasen size from the front backward as far as the sixth , on the right side , beyond there appear to be indications of three teeth on that side of the jaw , judging froiti ie space between the alveolar ridges , which is occupied by matrix .
On the left side , ie first of the teeth indicated on the right side is not preserved , but eight teeth re indicated by fractured roots , from which the crowns are lost , or by sockets which re defined by the curvature of the alveolar margins .
The palate between the teeth ks already been referred to as vaulted .
Its width in front is inch .
It widensjpit* inch opposite the sixth tooth of the series preserved , where the anterior borer of the posterior nares forms a concave transverse contour , truncating the hard pale .
Below and behind this the posterior extension of the palatal bones , presumaly palatine , forms a V-shaped cranial roof to the palato-nares .
The transverse width of the teeth augments from inch in the first pres#\#171 ; js to more than * inch in the sixth ' The teeth are transversely ovate\gt ; but i , S character is less marked in the earlier than in the later teeth .
^ No tooth showsin empty pulp cavity , though in the small pre-molar teeth the cavity apparently ex s The width of the fractured base of the crown of the sixth tooth on the right ^ is almost A- inch , and its antero-posterior extent is less than -a % inch Thins approximately the measurement of each of the teeth from the fourth to the eigh .
and classification of THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1039 i longitudinal extent of these five teeth and sockets appears to be inch .
The Lrnai side of the tooth shows no appreciable indication of being wider than the jmal side , as in so many mammals .
Phe solitary crown on the right side , which I have termed the sixth in the jaw , I uld regard as probably the fourth molar , and therefore conclude that the jaw tained seven molar teeth , and gives evidence of at least two pre-molar teeth with rly circular crowns .
The fractured bases of the fifth and sixth crowns are in ie contact with each other .
Other evidence shows the border of the socket to e been extremely thin .
'he crown is low ( fig. 14 ) , and the entire surface which projects above the bone is melled .
Below the alveolar margins the enamel , which is convex all round , ceases , hout any manifest contraction in the dimensions of the crown .
The tooth is itly worn with use , so that its original surface and structure cannot be inferred q its present condition .
The wear , however , has not obliterated the evidence that re was a large anterior cusp on the external border , succeeded by two very small ps , continuous with minute cusps which extend along the posterior margin of tooth , though they are worn away from its inner half .
On the inner alveolar 3 there was a large anterior cusp , succeeded by a smaller posterior cusp , the ill development of which gives to the tooth a slightly compressed aspect on hinder inner side .
A ridge appears to have extended transversely from side to } between these cusps .
The tooth is therefore somewhat intermediate between es like Diademodon and Trirachodon .
It is entirely distinct from anything erwise known to me , and is probably the type of a distinct genus .
It is dis-^uished from the tooth of D. mastacus by the posterior accessory cusps . .
regard the clear definition of the post-frontal bones as convenient ground for .uping the genus with the Reptilia .
The pre-frontal bones are equally well-defined , 1 the suture seems to me to be distinct which marks the auterior limit of this ie and separates it from the lachrymal .
The evidence of skull structure shown in s specimen is important in relation to the resemblance of the isolated tooth crown the teeth in the jaws previously described .
I desire to express my sense of the services rendered to science by the gentlemen io collected these fossils , and especially to Mr. Brown , for personal kindness in owing me the sections near Aliwal North , and for the loan of specimens ; to e Trustees of the South African Museum for the loan of fossils collected by Kannemeyer ; to Her Majesty 's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies , \#166 ; wd Knutsford ; and to the Government Grant Committee of the Boyal Society 1889 , for assistance .
MUcccxciv.\#151 ; b. G R Explanation op Plate .
PLATE 89 .
Fig. 1 Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
Fig. 11 .
Fig. 12 .
Fig. 13 .
Palatal aspect of fragments of jaws referred to tetragom showing anterior molar teeth , without indication of posterior truncatic of the hard palate .
Natural size .
Three right molar teeth of this specimen , enlarged four times , indicated j a , b , c , showing details of the cusps .
Fluted canine tooth found with the specimen shown in fig. 1 .
Enlargt three times .
Possibly referable to the same species .
Posterior fragment of the right mandible , showing the crowns of mandibir ?
molars , referred to the same species .
Enlarged three times .
Molar tooth , showing the conical form of the root , and its relation to fe crown ; the same species .
Enlarged three times .
^ ^J|| A crown of the left molar tooth , provisionally referred to Diademooi brachytiara , but possibly a posterior molar of D. tetragonus .
\gt ; ?
Posterior aspect of the same tooth , showing the root somewhat crush , j giving an illusory appearance of longitudinal division .
^ .r Outline of the broken extremity of the root of this tooth , showing the p:p cavity , without any trace of division of the root .
A crown of another left molar tooth of the same species .
rg The posterior aspect of the same tooth , showing an appearance of to tudinal grooving of the root , which is due to compression and fracte .
Figs. 6 to 10 are enlarged four times .
7 ' Part of the left maxillary region of Diademodon ( or omp mastacus , showing the transverse forms of the roots and tuberculg m dition of the crowns .
Natural size .
The three teeth lettered \#171 ; , 6 , -c , in fig. 11 .
Enlarged three tunes , show the elevation of the external cusps , as in the jaw o f PaC^pect of the middle portion of the skull of The way in which the teeth on the right side are enlarged astheyart backward may be compared with the condition shown in fig^ Diademodon tetragonus .
Since it is manifest tha o e behind these , and behind the hard palate , it is probaM* ' a three teeth shown in the D. mastacus are postenor to th^ c ^ preserved in D. Browni and D. tetragonus .
If t e ee ^ extended backward they might assume the characters sho provisionally termed D. brachytiara .
Natural size .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
14 The crown of the sixth tooth of the right side of Diademodon Browni , seen from the palatal aspect , enlarged three times , showing the partial obliteration of the cusps with wear .
15 Skull of ' Tritylodon longcevus , seen from above , showing what are regarded as the post-frontal bones forming a crest behind the orbit , and the pre-frontal bones above the orbit , margining the frontal bones .
Natural size .
16 .
Anterior part of the skull of Trirachodon Berryi , figured for comparison with Tritylodon , showing the pre-orbital constriction of the maxillary bones , and their sub-orbital transverse expansion ; and the post-frontal bones behind the orbits .
Natural size .
17 .
Posterior aspect of a Theriodont carpus found isolated at Lady Frere .
Half natural size .
It is figured from the posterior aspect .
There are three bones in the proximal row .
The pisiform bone is indicated by the letter p. The middle bone is regarded as the cuneiform .
The large third bone , which is nearly as wide as the other two , is regarded as scapho-lunar .
The central bone , below the cuneiform , has an expansion on its posterior side which resembles that of the bone marked h among the central bones , in the carpus of Theriodesmus .
6 n 2 $ede/ Phil. Trans. 1894 .
B. 89 .
G.M " Woodman ?
3 .
del.et.11th .

