On the Influence of Temperature Air on Bacteria .
339 has for indefinitely increasing values of , as limit tends multiplied by ( 1 - x)\ towards the limit p r(X +1 ) .
This proposition , which follows immediately from the type theorem , gives for X = 0 Abel 's theorem ; for X = 1 , the theorem of Frobenius ( * Crelle , ' 1878 ) ; and leads to consequences in regard to the integrals of linear differential equations with rational coefficients .
The principal result of this chapter , is that the singularities of a function , defined by a power series 2cn\#187 ; n , can be found and their nature analysed by the examination only , for values of n tending towards oo , of the sequence cn and of other sequences derived from this one .
A new conception is introduced in the third chapter , that of an " asymptotical region .
" An asymptotical region encloses always a point x \#151 ; a , of essential singularity , of a function F(x ) and consists of an ordinary region enclosing a with an infinity of co-holes in it , not enclosing a , but approaching it indefinitely .
The object of the author is to throw some light on the manner in which a function behaves in the vicinity of a point of essential singularity .
It is shown that if F\lt ; *\gt ; - a being oo , and the mn denoting finite integers , an asymptotical region can generally be constructed in which lim .
F(x ) = 0 if lim .
= oo ; and that this proposition is convertible .
The new conception is applied to the theory of transcendental integral functions as founded by Weierstrass , Laguerre , Poincare , \amp ; c. If G(x ) denotes a function of class zero , a certain asymptotical region will belong to G'/ G in the above sense .
If H(a ; ) = G(x ) + cx G'(x ) + c2 G"(\#187 ; ) + ... .where the Ci are any con2 cfl ( i =1 , ... \#171 ; ) radius of convergence , H(\#171 ; ) will again be a transcendental integral function of class zero ; and the asymptotical region belonging to H(x ) will be the same as that belonging to G(as ) .
stants , such that the power series has a non-vanishing " Further Note on the Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , and S. Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. Received April 3 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
In a previous communication* it was shown that no appreciable influence was exerted upon the vital properties of bacteria when exposed for 20 hours to the temperature of liquid air( \#151 ; 183 ' C. to D VOL. LXVI .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February 1,1900 .
340 On the Influence of Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
- 192 ' C. ) .
Further experiments have since been made in which the organisms were again exposed to the temperature of liquid air for a much longer period , viz. , seven days .
The organisms employed were B. typhosus , B. coli communis , B. diphtheria , B. proteus vulgaris , B. acidi lactici , B. anthracis ( sporing culture ) , Spirillum cholera asiatica , Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , B. rescens , a Sarcina , a Saccharomyces , and unsterilised milk .
Instead of being exposed as formerly on the actual media in which they were growing , the organisms were submitted to the cooling process in the form of a broth emulsion in hermetically sealed fine quill tubing .
This allows of complete immersion , and effects a considerable economy in the amount of liquid air used , besides greatly facilitating manipulation .
The liquid air was kindly furnished by Professor Dewar , and the experiment was conducted in his laboratory .
In the course of the experiment , the loss by evaporation of the liquid air was made up by adding fresh portions from time to time .
In this way the temperature of about - 190 ' C. was maintained uninterruptedly through the whole period of the experiment .
At the same time considerable care had to be taken in conducting the first cooling , in order to avoid fracture of the quill tubes .
A preliminary cooling was therefore effected by means of solid COg .
After the expiration of a week , the tubes were removed with cork-tipped forceps , and placed in a strong glass vessel till thawing was complete .
The tubes were then opened , and the contents transferred to suitable culture media .
In each case , a direct microscopical examination was made to detect any possible structural changes .
It is a remarkable fact that , notwithstanding the enormous mechanical strain to which the organisms must have been exposed , a strain far exceeding in amount any capable of being produced hitherto by direct mechanical means , not the slightest structural alteration could be detected .
The sub-cultures made at the conclusion of the experiment grew well , and in no instance could any impairment in the vitality of the organisms be detected .
In one or two instances only , growth was slightly delayed , an effect which might have been due to other causes .
The photogenic bacteria grew and emitted light , and the samples of milk became curdled .
The above experiments show that bacteria can be cooled down to \#151 ; 190 ' C. for a period of seven days without any appreciable impairment of their vitality .
It has not yet been possible to undertake the experiments with liquid hydrogen .

