472 Mr. F , Crace-Calvert the Action of Heat [ May 11 , had been employed in the above experiments was left exposed in similar tubes to its influence , when a large quantity of life was rapidly developed and continued to increase .
This result appears to show that the increase of life is not due to reproduction merely , but to the introduction of fresh germs j for , excepting this fresh supply , there appears to be no reason why life should increase more rapidly in the open than in the closed tubes .
In concluding this paper I have great pleasure in recognizing the able and persevering attention with which my assistant , Mr. William Thompson , has carried out these experiments .
III .
f\lt ; Action of Heat on Protoplasmic Life .
" By F. Crace-Calvert , F.R.S. Received May 9 , 1871 .
Those investigators of germ-life who favour the theory of spontaneous generation have assumed that a temperature of 212 ' Fahr. , or the boiling-point of the fluid which they experimented upon , was sufficient to destroy all protoplasmic life , and that the life they subsequently observed in these fluids was developed from non-living matter , I therefore made several series of experiments , in the hope that they might throw some light on the subject .
The first series was made with a sugar solution , the second with an infusion of hay , the third with solution of gelatine , and the fourth with water that had been in contact with putrid meat .
The hay and putrid-meat solutions were taken because they had often been used by other investigators ; sugar was employed , being a well-defined organic compound free from nitrogen , which can easily be obtained in a state of purity ; and gelatine was used as a nitrogenized body which can be obtained pure and is not coagulated by heat .
To carry out the experiments I prepared a series of small tubes made of very thick and well-annealed glass , each tube about four centimetres in length , and having a bore of five millimetres .
The fluid to be operated upon was introduced into them , and left exposed to the atmosphere for sufficient length of time for germ-life to be largely developed .
Each tube was then hermetically sealed and wrapped in wire gauze , to prevent any accident to the operator in case of the bursting of any of the tubes .
They were then placed in an oil-bath , and gradually heated to the required temperature , at which they were maintained for half an hour .
Sugar Solution.\#151 ; A solution of sugar was prepared by dissolving 1 part of sugar in 10 parts of water .
This solution was made with common water , and exposed all night to the atmosphere , so that life might impregnate it .
The fluid was prepared on the 1st of November , 1870 , introduced into tubes on the 2nd , and allowed to remain five days .
On the 7th of November twelve tubes were kept without being heated , twelve were heated to 200 ' Fahr , , twelve to 300 ' , and twelve to 400 ' Fahr. 1871 .
] ' on Protoplasmic Life .
47S The contents of the tubes were microscopically examined on the 1st of December , twenty-four days after heating .
Sugar solution not heated .
Heated for half an hour at 212 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 300 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 400 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 500 ' Fahr. There were about 30 animalcules under each field of the microscope , principally small black vibrios , 2 or 3 microzymes swimming slowly about , 3 or 4 ordinary swimming vibrios , and a few Bacteria .
A great portion of the life had disappeared , no animalcules were swimming ; still this temperature had not completely destroyed life .
4 or 5 small black vibrios were observed moving energetically to and fro ; 2 or 3 ordinary vibrios were also observed moving energetically in the same position of the field , that is , without swimming about .
The sugar was slightly charred , but the life was not entirely destroyed , as 1 or 2 ordinary vibrios and 1 or 2 small black vibrios were observed in motion under the field of the micro* scope .
The sugar was almost entirely decomposed ; no trace of life was observed .
No life observed .
Remarks.\#151 ; The black vibrios here referred to are far more opaque than the other varieties of vibrios , and are the most important of all , as I have found them to resist not only very high temperatures , but all chemical solutions .
I shall , in my paper on putrefaction and the action of antiseptics , describe the various vibrios and give drawings of them .
Hay Infusion.\#151 ; An infusion of hay was made by macerating it in common water for one hour , then filtering the liquor , and leaving it exposed to the atmosphere all night , when it was sealed in the small tubes , twelve of which were used for each experiment .
The infusion was made on the 4th of November , sealed in tubes on the 5th , and heated on the 7th .
The results were examined on the 1st of December , 1870 , twenty-four days after being heated .
Mr. F. Crace-Calvert on the Action of Heat [ May 11 , Hay infusion not heated .
Heated for half an hour at 212 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 300 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 400 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 500 ' Fahr. Fungus matter was observed growing on the surface of the fluids in two of the tubes .
On subjecting the contents of some of the tubes to examination , from 20 to 25 animalcules were observed under each field of the microscope .
This kind of life resembled small dots moving energetically to and fro ; 1 or 2 ordinary vibrios were also present .
No fungus matter was noticed on the surface in any of the tubes .
A few small black vibrios present in the original solution were also present in this .
No fungus matter present , but some of the small black vibrios were still present , although in less numbers .
No fungus matter observed .
The fluid was filled with irregular masses of coagulated matter , and life had disappeared .
No life present .
Gelatine Solution.\#151 ; A solution of gelatine , prepared of such strength that it remained liquid on cooling , was exposed for twenty-four hours to the atmosphere .
It was then introduced into the small tubes , and the tubes sealed .
The solution was made on the 4th of November , the tubes sealed on the 5th , and subjected to the different temperatures on the 7th .
The fluids were examined on the 1st of December , 1870 , twenty-four days after being heated .
Gelatine solution not heated .
Gelatine solution heated for half an hour at 100 ' Fahr. J Heated for half an hour at 212 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 300 ' Fahr. Heated for half an hour at 400 ' Fahr. There were 7 or 8 animalcules under each field , 5 or 6 of which were quite different to any thing observed in the other fluids .
They had long thin bodies , swimming with a peristaltic motion .
1 or 2 ordinary swimming vibrios were also present ; but the small black vibrios were absent .
Life seemed to have only slightly decreased , and none of the animalcules were swimming .
The peculiar animalcule mentioned in the first column appeared to retain still its peristaltic motion , but not sufficient power to move across the field , a few ordinary vibrios being also observed moving to and fro .
A very decided diminution in the quantity of life present was noticeable .
No life present .
i No life present .
1871.1 on Protoplasmic Life .
Putrid-Meat Fluid.\#151 ; Water was placed in an open vessel , and a piece of meat suspended in it until it became putrid and contaminated with myriads of animalcules .
This fluid was placed in the usual tubes , which were sealed on the 7th of November , and heated on the same day .
The contents of the tubes were subjected to examination on the 1st of December , or twenty-four days after having been heated .
Not heated .
Heated for half an hour at 100 ' F. Heated for half an hour at 212 ' F. Heated for half an hour at 300 ' F. Heated for half an hour at 400 ' F. Heated for half an hour at 500 ' F. A large quantity of life was present , namely , microzyma and several distinct species of vibrios , among which were a number of the small black ones frequently mentioned .
This temperature had but slightly affected the life present , the animalcules being as numerous as in the liquid not heated , and moving as usual .
However , one species of very long vibrios appeared to be considerably affected , as they were much more languid in their movements .
This liquor differed from all the others in being turbid and coagulated .
Life was still present ; and although heat had deprived the animalcules of the power of locomotion , still they retained a sufficient a-mount of vital force to place it beyond a doubt that life was not destroyed .
The liquid was quite clear , the albumen( which is coagulated at 200 ' ) appearing to be redissolved .
A large quantity of the life in the fluid was destroyed , but some vibrios still remained , the small black ones being the most numerous .
All life had disappeared .
All life had disappeared .
The results recorded in the above Tables show that protoplasmic life is but slightly affected by a temperature of 212 ' F. , and that , even at a temperature of 300 ' F. , it is not entirely destroyed , excepting in the case of gelatine .
In all the other fluids a temperature of 400 ' F. is necessary to completely destroy the life .
These experiments , therefore , clearly show that the life found by previous experimenters in fluids which have been submitted to heat was not due to heterogenesis , but to life which had remained in the fluids , as I have seen no experiment reported where the temperature to which the fluids were exposed exceeded 300 ' F.* I am the more justified in making this statement , as I have repeatedly examined the contents of tubes which had been submitted to a temperature of 400 ' F. , both immediately after cooling and at all periods up to thirty days , and was unable in any instance to detect the slightest trace of life .
This important result corroborates those recorded in my previous paper , and proves that the spontaneous-generation theory is not yet by any means established .
* It is with pleasure that I find these experiments to confirm the suggestion of Dr. Beale , in his work entitled " Disease-Germs , their supposed Origin , " page 50 ( which I read a few weeks ago ) , that " living forms might live though exposed , under certain conditions , to a temperature of 350 ' F. " Action of Heat on Protoplasmic Life .
[ May 11 , It occurred to me that it might he interesting to examine the influence on pure albumen of the putrid-meat fluids that had been heated , and note whether they still possessed the property of propagating life .
A solution was prepared by mixing the albumen of a new-laid egg with pure distilled water free from life ( prepared as described in my previous paper ) .
Equal volumes of this solution were placed in six small test-tubes , which had been cleansed with hot vitriol and well washed with pure water .
To one tube two drops were added of the putrid-meat solution that had been heated to 100 ' F. , to a second two drops of that heated to 212 ' F. , to a third two drops of that heated to 300 ' F. , to a fourth an equal bulk of fluid heated to 400 ' F. , and to a fifth the same quantity heated to 500 ' F. In the sixth the albuminous solution , without any thing added , was kept for comparison .
The tubes were sealed , and kept from the 1st of February to the 9 th .
Results of Examination .
Albumen , solution .
Albumen solution , with putrid-meat liquor , heated to 100 ' F. Albumen solution , with putrid-meat liquor , heated to 212 ' F. Albumen solution , with putrid-meat liquor , heated to 300 ' F. Albumen solution , with putrid-meat liquor , heated to 400 ' F. Albumen solution , with putrid-meat liquor , heated to 500Q F. In each drop 2 or 3 small black vibrios , moving to and fro .
Abundance of life .
Abundance of life .
Much less life than in the two fluids previously examined .
In each drop 2 or 3 small black vibrios , moving to and fro .
In each drop 2 or 3 small black vibrios , moving to and fro .
These results clearly show that , at the temperatures of 100 ' , 212 ' , and 300 ' F. , life and its germs had not been destroyed , whilst at 400 ' F. they had ; for the results of the examination were in this case exactly identical with those of the albumen solution itself ; and the life found was doubtless introduced in the preparation of the solution , and was not due to any life having remained in the fluids that had been heated .
Although perfectly aware of the interesting researches of Professor Mel-sens , proving that the most intense cold does not destroy the active power of vaccine lymph , still I thought it desirable to ascertain the effect of a temperature of 15 ' F. on well-developed germ-life , similar to that which had been subjected to the action of heat. .
Some putrid-meat liquor , therefore , containing a large quantity of micro-zyma and vibrios , was subjected for twenty hours to the influence of a temperature ranging between the freezing-point of water and 17 ' below that point , when the ice was melted and the liquor examined .
The animalcules retained their vitality , but appeared very languid , and their power of locomotion was greatly decreased .
Two hours after melting the ice the liquor was again examined , when the animalcules appeared to be as energetic as before .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day , to Thursday , May 25th .

