2 .
" A Method of proving the three leading properties of the Ellipse and the Hyperbola from a well-known property of the Circle .
" By Sir Frederick Pollock , Knt. , F.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Attorney General .
Communicated in a letter to P. M. Roget , M.D. , Secretary to the Royal Society .
In this communication , the author first demonstrates the wellknown property of the circle , that if from a point in the diameter produced there be drawn a tangent to the circle , and from the point of contact there be drawn aline perpendicular to the diameter ; and if from any point in the circumference there be drawn two lines , one to the point without the circle , and another to the foot of this perpendicular , the former of these lines will be to the latter , as the distance of the point without the circle from the centre , is to the ra ?
dius of the circle .
By means of this property , and assuming that the ellipse is the curve whose ordinate , at right angles to its axis , is to the corresponding ordinate of the circle , described upon this axis as a diameter , in a constant ratio , the author proves the following propositions relating to this curve : ยง 1 .
The rectangle of the abseissoe is to the square of the ordinate , as the square of the seniiaxis major to the difference of the squares of the seniiaxis major and the excentricity .
2 .
The distance of any point in the curve from the focus , is to its distance from the directrix , as the excentricity is to the seniiaxis major .
3 .
The sum of the distances of any point in the curve from the two foci is equal to the axis major .
By a method nearly similar to that employed for the ellipse , and assuming that the hyperbola is a curve in which the rectangle of the abscissoa is to the square of the ordinate , as the square of the ordi ?
nate in a circle , described upon the axis major as a diameter , is to the square of the subtangent , the author shows , first , that the distance of any point in the curve from the focus is to its distance from the directrix , as the distance between the foci is to the axis major ; and secondly , that the difference of the distances of any point in the curve from the two foci is equal to the axis major .

