228 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Observations on the Insects collected in Kerguelen Island.\#151 ; Bev .
A. E. B , There are doubtless some other species of insects indigenous to Kerguelen Island besides those which are enumerated in the following papers .
Tor although the climate is bleak and the vegetation poor , the amount of ground suitable for the habitation of terrestrial articulata is rather extensive , and in point of humidity and altitude presents much diversity of character .
On the shores of the intricate inlets of the sea and of the islets adjacent to them , ample space is available for the maintenance of littoral species .
The low flat ground at the eastern base of the Mt .
Crozier range , many square miles in extent , though saturated with the drainage from the neighbouring mountains , might he expected to yield good entomological results , if it should ever he visited by a collector .
The slopes about Thumb Peak , unusually sunny for Kerguelen Island , could hardly fail to he productive of at least Coleoptera .
It is true that none were captured there , hut that was because they were not sought for , the eggs of a new species of bird having to be collected during the short stay that was made in that neighbourhood .
But probably the most favourable situations of all would be the valleys and low hills intervening between Mt .
Boss , the inland snowfields and glaciers , Vulcan Cove , and Boyal Sound .
Along the shore amongst the tide-pools , undisturbed by waves from the open sea , Halyritus of the Chironomidce may be readily observed , while Hyalomma lurks in the crevices .
More numerous are the denizens of tide-refuse on the upper part of the beach .
There the hairy little Apetenus can be seen creeping leisurely over the boulders , and Amalopteryx , curiously winged , which also abounds among the nests of the Cormorants and Bock-hoppers .
Beneath the stones , too , Anatalanta is plentiful , though it is not restricted to this zone like the but is distributed over the neighbouring slopes and valleys .
Beyond the limits of the shore the forms of life become more varied .
The sluggish Calycopteryx awaits inspection on the Bringlea leaves , ready to drop into their axils so soon as it shall be approached too nearly .
There roam the spiders Myro over stones and Azorella ; the moth Embry onopsis , clambering the tufts of withered grass , leaps lightly off like a splinter chipped away by the boot , and feigns to be dead ; while , if the day be calm and fine , the minute Limnophyes may be seen upon the wing .
rhinidce are often to be met with under stones , especially upon the hill tops and on banks and ridges .
Several species of Acaridea resort to similar shelter on the slopes and low ground ; some are gregarious on open surfaces of rock , while others INSECTA.\#151 ; A. E. EATON .
live among the herbage .
They are often associated with , which also frequent wet moss in the marshes .
It will he seen from the descriptions and figures that many of the insects are remarkable for peculiarities of structure .
The predominance among them of forms incapable of flying constitutes one of the most salient features of this portion of the fauna .
A few of the Dipped era are in addition noticeable on account of the exceptional poverty of their hair .
Where species have been alluded to without description , in literature relating to the island , the references to such allusions are given in a distinct paragraph supplementary to the citations of earlier descriptions .

