\A .
Comparison of Platvnum and Gas Thormomstors .
327 From the researches of the late Professor H. A. Newton , and the results of the investigations of Drs. Stony and Downing on the perturbations of Adams 's orbit , the most probable value of the period of revolution would appear to be at present about 33-49 years , corresponding to mean distance of 10-39 .
Any admissible variation in the length of the period , however , makes but a small change in the other elements of the orbit , as is evident from Table V , in which the elements in each column have been computed with the value of the mean distance which is contained in it .
Table V. i. II .
III .
( Assumed ) period P = Mean distance ct = Angle of eccentricity \lt ; p = Inclination i = Longitude of descending node v = Longitude of perihelion ir = 33 -25 yrs .
10*34 64 ' 46 ' 16 3 53 2 58 40 33 *49 yrs .
10 -39 64 ' 50 ' 16 3 53 2 58 40 33 *73 yrs .
10 -44 64 ' 54 ' 16 3 ' 53 2 58 40 If we adopt the value 10-39 for the mean distance , as being on the whole the most probable , we have the orbit in column II representing the result of the observations of 1898 , as far as they have been published .
\lt ; \#163 ; A Comparison of Platinum and Gas Thermometers , including a Determination of the Boiling Point of Sulphur on the Nitrogen Scale : an Account of Experiments made in the Laboratory of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures , at Sevres .
" By Drs. J. A. Harker and P. Chappuis .
Communicated by the Kew Observatory Committee .
Received June 8 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In 1886 , Professor Callendar drew attention to the method of measuring temperature , based on the determination of the electrical resistance of a platinum wire .
He showed that the method was capable of a very general application , and that the platinum resistance thermometer was an instrument giving consistent and accurate results over a very wide temperature range .
- Callendar pointed out that if R0 denote the resistance of the spiral of a particular platinum thermometer at 0 ' , and Ri its resistance at 100 ' , we may establish for the particular wire a temperature scale , 323 A Comparison of Platinum and Gas Thermometers .
which we may call the scale of platinum temperatures , such that if R he the resistance at any temperature T ' , this temperature on the platinum scale will be ^x 100 degrees .
For this quantity Callendar employs the symbol pt , its value depending on the sample of platinum chosen .
In order to reduce to the standard scale of temperature the indications of any platinum thermometer , it is necessary to know the law connecting T and pi .
These are , of course , identical at 0 ' and 100 ' , but the determination of the curve expressing the relationship between them is a matter for experiment .
The work of Callendar had established for a particular sample of platinum the relation over the range 0 ' to 600 ' , T being measured on the constant pressure air scale .
Later experiments by Callendar and Griffiths showed that this relation holds for platinum wires generally , provided they are not very impure .
They propose that the value of the constant employed in the formula , should be determined by taking the resistance of the thermometer in the vapour of sulphur .
A new determination of this point on the air scale made by them gave 444-53 ' , as the boiling point under 760 mm. pressure .
The present paper is the outcome of the co-operation of the Kew Observatory Committee and the authorities of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures at Sevres , for the purpose of carrying out a comparison of some platinum thermometers with the recognised international standards .
A new resistance-box , designed for this work , and special platinum thermometers together with the other accessories needed were constructed for the Kew Committee , and after their working had been tested at Kew , were set up at the laboratory at Sevres in August , 1897 .
The comparisons executed between these instruments and the standards of the Bureau may be divided into several groups .
The first group of experiments covers the range \#151 ; 23 ' to 80 ' , and consists of direct comparisons between each platinum thermometer and the primary mercury standards of the Bureau .
Above 80 ' the mercury thermometers were replaced by a gas-thermometer , constructed for measurements up to high temperatures .
The comparisons between 80 ' and 200 ' were made in a vertical bath of stirred oil , heated by different liquids boiling under varying pressures .
For work above 200 ' a bath of mixed nitrates of potash and soda was substituted for the oil tank .
In this bath comparisons of the two principal platinum thermometers with the gas-thermometer were made up to 460 ' ; and with a third Remits of Rxperiments on Permanent Grass-land .
thermometer , which was provided with a porcelain tube , we were able to go up to 590 ' .
Comparisons of the platinum and gas-scales were carried out at over 150 different points , each comparison consisting of either ten or twenty readings of the different instruments .
By the intermediary of the platinum thermometers a determination of the boiling point of sulphur oil the nitrogen scale was also made .
The mean of three very concordant sets of determinations with the different thermometers gave 445'*27 as the boiling point on the scale of the constant volume nitrogen thermometer , a value differing only 0'-7 from that found by Callendar and Griffiths for the same temperature expressed on the constant pressure air scale .
If for the reduction of the platinum temperatures in our comparisons we adopt the parabolic formula , and the value of obtained by assuming our new number for the sulphur-point , we find that below 100 ' the differences between the observed values on the nitrogen scale and those deduced from the platinum thermometer are exceedingly small , and that even at the highest temperatures the differences only amount to a few tenths of a degree .
Full details as to the instruments employed and the methods adopted are given in the paper .
" Agricultural , Botanical , and Chemical Results of Experiments on the Mixed Herbage of Permanent Grass-land , conducted for many Years in succession on the same Land .
Part III.\#151 ; The Chemical Results .
" By Sir John Bennet Laws , Bart. , D.C.L. , Se .
D. , F.R.S. , and Sir J. Henry Gilbert , LL. D. , Se .
D. , F.R.S. Received August 10 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments were commenced in 1856 , and are still in progress , so that the present is the forty-fourth year of their continuance .
There are about twenty plots , two of which have been continuously unmanured , and the remainder have respectively received different descriptions or quantities of manure of known composition .
A report on the " Agricultural Results " was published in the ' Phil. Trans./ Part I , 1880 ; and a second on the " Botanical Results " in the ' Phil. Trans./ Part IY , 1882 .
The present paper deals with a portion of the " Chemical Results .
" In all cases , of both first and second crops , the dry matter and the ash , and in most the nitrogen , have been determined .
In selected cases determinations have been made of the amount of nitrogen existing as albuminoids , and in some of the amount of " crude woody fibre , " and of crude fatty matter .
HMore than 200 complete ash-analyses have also been executed .
VOL. LX V.

