Photographic Researches on Phosphorescent Spectra .
237 " Photographic Eesearches on Phosphorescent Spectra : on Vic-torium , a New Element associated with Yttrium .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.R.S. Received May 2 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
[ Plate 9 .
] It has long been known that certain substances enclosed in a vacuou , , glass bulb phosphoresce brightly when submitted to molecular bombardment from the negative pole of an induction coil .
The ruby , emerald , diamond , alumina , yttria , samaria , and a large class of earthy oxides and sulphides , emit light under these circumstances .
Examined in a spectroscope the light from some of these bodies gives an almost continuous spectrum , while that from others , such as alumina , yttria , and samaria , gives spectra of more or less sharp bands and lines .
Since 1879 I have been working on these phosphorescent spectra , chiefly in connection with the earths of the yttria group , and by chemical fractionation I have succeeded in separating from this group bodies whose phosphorescent spectra consist chiefly of single groups of lines , other-groups being absent .
For the last six years the research has been extended beyond the visible spectrum , and photographs of the ultraviolet portion of the spectra are now being taken with a spectrograph with a complete quartz train .
Some of the results of this investigation were exhibited at the soirSe of the Royal Society , on the 3rd of May .
A preliminary mention of the discovery of a new element was made in my address to the British Association in September last , when I provisionally called it Monium ; but for several reasons I now consider the name Vidorium more appropriate .
The complicated scheme of fractionation carried on for so many years is illustrated in the accompanying diagram ( Plate 9 ) .
This must be considered only as an indication of the methods employed , and not as an actual representation of every operation through which the material has passed .
Crude yttria , from samarskite , gadolinite , cerite , and other similar minerals , is the raw material .
The first operation is to free it roughly from earths of the cerium group\#151 ; an operation effected by taking advantage of the fact that the double sulphates of potassium and the yttrium metals are easily soluble in saturated potassium sulphate solution , while the corresponding double sulphates of the cerium group of metals are difficultly soluble .
After this preliminary treatment the crude yttria is converted into nitrate , represented by the topmost circle on the diagram .
The nitrate is exposed to heat until it fuses to a clear liquid , care being taken to distribute the heat uniformly through the mass .
Presently the liquid mass commences to decompose , giving off red vapours .
After this has proceeded for a little time the fused mass is carefully poured into VOL. I XV .
T Sir W. Crookes water , and the liquid well boiled .
A white precipitate of basic nitrate forms , while the undecomposed nitrates remain in solution .
These are separated by filtration , the precipitate going to the right and the solution to the left .
The basic nitrate is dissolved in nitric acid , and the right and left solutions are then evaporated to dryness and fused as before .
Partial decomposition by heat again , divides each of these portions into two lots , soluble and insoluble .
The soluble from the left-hand lot goes still further to the left , and its insoluble portion to the right .
The soluble from the right-hand portion goes to the left , where it mixes with the insoluble from the other portion , while its insoluble goes still further to the right .
This series of operations is continued for as long a time as the material will hold out.* From a description the process seems to be more complicated than it really is , but a study of the diagram and the direction of the arrows make it clear .
The number of times this operation is performed varies with each lot of earth fractionated .
The portions submitted to fusion rapidly diminish in quantity , and the operation is continued until the material becomes too scanty .
The last horizontal line of fractions spectroscopically examined in a radiant matter tube shows differences in the visible spectrum .
For many years I recorded these differences in coloured drawings , which have served on several occasions to illustrate papers before this Society . !
In the year 1893 I commenced to record the differences between the various spectra by photographing them in a spectrograph having a complete quartz train , and since that time attention has chiefly been directed to the variations in the number , character , and positions of the lines and bands in the ultra-violet spectrum : these are more striking than those which are visible , and as they are self-recording , results are more rapidly attained .
A description of this instrument is given further on .
On placing the photographed spectra of one of the horizontal lines of earths in order , several differences are detected .
One striking difference is seen in the behaviour of a group of lines in the ultraviolet .
It is nearly absent in the end fractions , gradually becoming stronger towards the middle , and attaining a maximum in the fractions situate about two-thirds towards the right .
This shows that at least three different bodies are present : one , the great bulk , having a nitrate difficult to decompose ; another whose nitrate is easiest to decompose ; and a third body , occupying an intermediate position , whose nitrate decomposition occurs at temperatures between that required by the others , but nearer that of the nitrate easiest decomposed .
# " On the Methods of Chemical Fractionation , " British Association , Birmingham Meeting , 1886 ; 4 Chemical News/ yoL 54 , p. 131 .
t " On some New Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskite detected Spectroscopically , 4 Boy .
Soc. Proc./ No. 245 , 1886 , toI .
40 , p. 502 .
" Photographic Researches on Phosphorescent Spectra .
239 The above method of fractionation is not so effectual if more than two bodies are present .
In that case the prdcess fails , in any reasonable time , to yield practically pure specimens of more than two out of a group of closely allied earths .
Thus , if there are three earths\#151 ; say , A , B , and C\#151 ; whose positions in reference to the chemical process employed are in the written order of sequence , we may get a specimen of A as nearly as we please free from B and C , and a specimen of C as nearly as we please free from A and B , but we cannot get a specimen of B practically free from A and C. The law seems to be that to obtain practically pure specimens of three closely allied earths , it is essential to have recourse to at least two different chemical processes .
The mere continued repetition of the same process will not do , unless indeed the operations are repeated such a vast number of times as to make the approximate expressions no longer applicable , even though the substances are chemically very close .
For this and other reasons it is advisable to change the method of fractionation after one process has been in operation for some time .
It is evident that any process of fusion , crystallisation , or precipitation can only divide the mass of material into two parts , a soluble and insoluble portion , crystals and mother liquor ; and after a time a balance of affinities seems to be established , and further fractionation appears to do little good .
It is better then to change the operation .
Following the diagrammatic scheme , the portions of earths contain ing most victorium are collected together and fractionated by the crystallisation of the oxalates from a solution strongly acidulated with nitric acid in the following manner:\#151 ; To a boiling acid solution of the nitrate a small quantity of hot solution of oxalic acid is added .
The solution remains clear , and it is only after vigorous stirring that a small quantity of insoluble oxalate is formed .
The whole is thrown on a hot-water filter and slightly washed with boiling water .
To the boiling filtrate a fresh lot of hot solution of oxalic acid is added , and stirred till more insoluble oxalate comes down .
This is again filtered off , and the operations of precipitating , stirring , filtering , and washing are repeated , always keeping the temperature as near the boiling point as possible , until the whole of the earths are precipitated .
Generally the initial earth is divided by this method of fractionation into from six to twelve portions .
Each of these oxalates is dried , ignited , dissolved in nitric acid , and the above-described operations repeated .
Photo-spectroscopic tests are constantly taken during the progress of this fractionation , and portions are mixed together according to the data thus obtained , as shown on the diagram by the lines joining the fractions ; the object being to avoid lateral spreading as much as possible , and , while concentrating the special line-giving earth , to prevent its too great diffusion over a large number of fractions .
When the fractionation by the oxalate Sir W. Crookes .
method has proceeded for a considerable time , the fractions rich in victorium are collectedr together and submitted to another mode of treatment .
These fractions are converted into nitrates , and a small quantity is thrown out by partial decomposition by heat , according to the method already described .
The filtrate is evaporated to dryness and again fused so as to throw out a little more .
This operation is repeated as long as any soluble nitrate is left .
Generally from six to twelve portions are thus obtained .
These form a regular series , differing according to the stability of the nitrate under heat .
On testing , the victorium is found to concentrate in the centre portions , being less easily decomposed than the earths of the cerium group and more easily decomposed than those of the yttrium group .
The fractions rich in victorium are converted into sulphates and mixed with a hot saturated solution of potassium sulphate .
The precipitate is dissolved in boiling water and mixed with a further quantity of solution of potassium sulphate .
This produces a small quantity of a precipitate .
The filtrate from the first precipitate is also mixed with fresh potassium sulphate , and the operations are repeated , mixing the centre solutions to one lot and the side solutions to another , as shown by the lines on the diagram .
It is found on photo-spectroscopic examination that the earths thrown out on each side are poorest in victorium , whilst those in the middle are richest .
After a time no further concentration is effected in this manner , all the earths that can be removed as being more or less soluble in potassium sulphate having-been eliminated .
In thus describing the method of fractionation , my object has been not so much to give a description of the plan actually carried out in the laboratory\#151 ; for the details have varied with each operation\#151 ; but to give an intelligible idea of the general manner in which a very conr plicated operation is effected .
In the diagram I am supposing that one particular substance , victorium , is to be separated , and I have endeavoured to show its migrations and gradual concentration as the work progresses , by tinting the fractions where it mostly would concentrate ; the depth of tint representing the amount of concentration .
In the purest condition yet obtained victoria is an earth of a pale brown colour , easily soluble in acids .
It is less basic than yttria and more basic than most of the earths of the terbia group .
In chemical characters it differs in many respects from yttria .
From a hot nitric acid solution victorium oxalate precipitates before yttrium oxalate and after terbium oxalate .
On fractional precipitation with potassium sulphate the double sulphate of victorium and potassium is seen to be less soluble than the corresponding yttrium salt , and more soluble than the double sulphates of potassium and the terbium and cerium groups .
Victorium nitrate is a little more easily decomposed by heat Photographic Researches on Phosphorescent Spectra .
241 than yttrium nitrate , but the difference is not sufficient to make this reaction a good means of separating victorium and yttrium .
Fusing the nitrates can , however , be employed advantageously to separate mixed victoria and yttria from the bulk of their associated earths .
On the assumption that the oxide has the composition Vc203 , the atomic weight of victorium is apparently not far from 117 .
The photographed phosphorescent spectrum of victoria consists of a pair of strong lines at about A. 3120 and 3117 ; other fainter lines are at 3219 , 3064 , and 3060 .
Frequently the pair at 3120 and 3117 merge into one , but occasionally I have seen them quite distinct .
The presence or absence of other earths has much influence on the sharpness of lines in phosphorescent spectra , and it is probable that these lines will be sharp and distinct when victoria is obtained quite free from its associates .
The best material for phosphorescing in the radiant matter tube is not the earth itself , but the anhydrous sulphate formed by heating the earth with strong sulphuric acid and driving off the excess of acid at a red heat .
The sulphate thus produced , probably also containing some basic sulphate , is powdered and introduced into a bulb tube furnished with a quartz window , and a pair of thick aluminium poles sealed into the glass with stout platinum wires .
The tube is well exhausted , keeping the current from a good induction coil going all the time .
The pumping and sparking must continue until the earth glows with a pure light free from haze or cloudiness , and continues so to glow during the passage of the current without deterioration .
The exposure in the spectrograph usually occupies an hour .
I give a diagrammatic plan of the two-prism spectrograph used in this research .
It is furnished with two quartz prisms , quartz lenses , and condensers .
The slit jaws are of quartz , cut and polished according to the method I described in the ' Chemical News , ' vol. 71 , p. 175 , April 11 , 1895 .
The prisms are made in two halves , according to Cornu 's plan ; one half of each being right-handed and the other half left-handed .
One of the lenses also is right-handed and the other left-handed .
By this device the effect of double refraction is so completely neutralised that with a five-prism instrument it is impossible , under high magnifying power , to detect any duplication of the lines .
The lenses are each of 52 mm. diameter and 350 mm. focus .
The focus of the least refrangible rays is longer than that of the most refrangible rays , and the sensitive film must therefore be set at an angle to get the extreme rays into focus at the same time .
But this alone is not sufficient .
The focal plane is not a flat surface , but is curved , and the film must therefore be curved , * and it is only when * * Chemical News , ' vol. 72 , p. 87 , August 23 , 1895 ; and vol. 74 , p. 259 , November 27 , 1896 .
Photographic Researches on Phosphorescent Spectra .
\amp ; 0 SO 40 Experimental Contributions to the of .24* both these conditions are fulfilled that perfectly sharp images of spectral lines extending from the red to the high zinc line 2138-30 can be photographed on the same surface .
Celluloid films are used , glass not being sufficiently flexible .
Using the middle position showing the whole spectrum on a plate , the angle is 40 ' , and the curvature is 190 mm. radius .
The condensers are of quartz , and are piano-cylindrical\#151 ; one being double the focus of the other .
The object of this , when spark-spectra are being photographed , is to concentrate on the slit a line instead of a point of light , as would be the case if ordinary lenses were used .
When photographing phosphorescent spectra\#151 ; or , in fact , any spectra the'wave-lengths of which are either unknown or require verification \#151 ; T always photograph on the same film a standard spectrum , usually of an alloy of equal molecular weights of zinc , cadmium , tin , and mercury .
This forms a hard somewhat malleable alloy , giving throughout the whole photographic region lines the wave-lengths of whi^h are well known .
The chief objection to this alloy is its volatility \#151 ; the poles requiring frequent adjustment .
Recently I have used pure iron for this purpose ; this has the advantages of giving a great number of fine lines whose wave-lengths are accurately known , and not being very volatile , the poles do not rapidly wear away .
If the poles are kept about- 1 mm. apart there is little or no interference from air lines .
The most simple method of applying the standard lines to an unknown spectrum is by the successive employment of two slightly overlapping diaphragms immediately behind the slit , one being used for the experimental and the other for the standard spectrum .
In this way , without disturbing the instrument , the two spectra can be recorded on the plate one over the other ; the overlap of 1 mm. being in the optical centre of the train .
The resulting negative is then transferred to a micrometer measuring machine of special construction , having a screw of 1/ 100 of an inch pitch , and a means of accurately determining 1/ 1000 of its revolution\#151 ; thus measuring directly to the hundred-thousandth of an inch .
In this way , in a five-prism spectrograph having lenses 700 mm. focus , it is possible to determine wave-lengths of photographed lines to the sixth figure .
" Experimental Contributions to the Theory of Heredity .
A. Tele-gony/ ' By J. O. Ewart , M.D. , F.R.S. , University of Edinburgh .
Received May 29 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1899 .
I. Introductory .
The belief in telegony , or what used to be known as the " infection of the germ " or " throwing back " to a previous sire , has long prevailed

