]\gt ; On the Speci.of , Heat Flow from , other Phenomena of , the Workvng Fluid in the Cylinder of the Internal Combustion Engine .
By DUGALD CLERK , M.Inst .
C.E. ( Communicated by the Hon. C. A. Parsons , C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 24 , \mdash ; Read Marcb 15 , 1906 .
) The present ttation was taken with the object of ) the specilic heat of , and heat-flow from , the why heated products of combustion which constitute the working fluid within the cylinder of an internal combustion engine , by a method which permitted direct observations to be l1lade ) an actual charge taken into the engine in the ordinary operations of its cycle .
The method of expeliment is very simple , the writer believes it to be novel .
It consists in subjecting the whole of the highly heated products of the combustion of a gaseous charge to alternate compression and expansion within the engine cylinder while cooling proceeds , and observing by the indicator the successive essure and temperature-falls from revolution to revolution , together with the temperature and pressure rise and fall to alternate compression and expansion .
The set to at any given speed , and at the desired moment after the of gas and air has been drawn in , compressed , and nited , the exhaust yalve and charge inlet alves are prevented from , so that when the piston reaches the termination of its power stroke , the exhaust gases are retained within the cylinder , and the piston ompresses them to the minimum volume , expands them to the maximum volume , and so compresses and expands during the desired unber o strokes .
Fig. 1 is an indicator diagram so obtained , and it will be noted that , in addition to the usual power , a series of lines are traced which show cooling of the hot contents of the cylinder the walls .
The mode of dealing with these observations will be apparcnt the considerations:\mdash ; If a gas be compressed without gain or loss of heat from volume to and temperature rises from to , so that the work done upon the is , then the mean specific heat of the per unit volume at and 760 mm. at constant volume between the temperatures is where is a constant depending on the quantity of gas in the } linder .
Phenomena in Cylinder of the Combustion .
501 FIG. 1 .
It will be found more convenient to consider the specific heat per cylinder full of gas ; if this specific heat value be .
( 1 ) If different jases could be sufficiently compressed adiabatically , and the work of compression accurately measured , the value of could be obtained for any given temperature range .
In actual apparatus , heat exchanges of course take place between the gas and its enclosing walls , so that this method cannot be experimentally applied without means of determining the law of heat flow to and from the gas .
Assume , however , that in the case of an expanding gas the temperaturefall due to heat-flow through the walls is known , and its value for a given case is , while the temperature-fall during the yiven expansion is ; if the total work done by the expansion is , then the mean specific heat for the temperature range to is , ( 2 ) That is , by the temperature-fall due to heat-flow from the total temperature-fall , as shown by the expanding line , there is at once obtained the temperature-fall which is caused by the gas work upon the piston .
It is therefore only necessary to determine the temperature-fall due to heat loss on any given expansion line to be enabled to at once calculate the mean specific heat of the gas for the temperature limits .
The law of heat-loss cannot be ascertained by any consideration of Mr. D. Clerk .
On the Phenomena in the [ Feb. 24 , compression or expansion curves separately , unless the specific heat values of the gas be known .
By subjecting a cras , however , to alternate compression and expansion , at a relatively rapid , the law of heat-flow and its absolute yalue can be ascertained , and hence the mean specific heat determined , whether it constant or variable throughout the temperature range .
Assume a ooas at a temperature than its walls to be alternately compressed from volume to , and expanding from to as illustrated in fig. 2 .
The successive pressures at the volume are indicated at the points , and I , while those at volume are and J. The gas is thus compressed from A to to to to ; and I to ; and it is expanded from to to to ; and to I. Assume that the gas cooling but remains above the temperature of the walls during these compressions and FIG. 2 .
During the first compression , work is done upon the gas equal to ; during the first expansion , to , work is done by the gas upon the piston equal to , and the pressure has fallen from the point A to the point , that is , the gas has been compressed from the volume to , and expanded back fain to the same volume , while heat is lost to the sides of the cylinder ; work also has been done upon the gas , and has passed away as heat , because is greatel than .
If the absolute temperatures at and I be , and then the true temperature-fall due to heat-loss to the walls in the double operation is 1906 .
] linder of the Combustion .
503 being mean specific heat at constant volume in work units for the temperature between A and C. For the successive double operations between and I , the true tempel.ature-falls due to heat-loss through the walls are obtained in the same way .
Taking temperature-falls between these points as , etc. , , etc. , ( 4 ) that is , the true temperatm.e-falls , etc. , greater than the apparent falls , , etc. , by temperature-fall equivalents of the respective work-areas ; etc. the first expansion from to work is done by the } upon the pistol equal to , and the second compression , to 1 ) , does upon the gas , and so on .
the has fallen from the point to the point ; that is , the gas has been expanded from volunle to , and compressed back again from to , while heat is lost to the walls .
Work , however , in this case has been done by the upon the piston , because is greater than .
At the voltlme the successive points and indicate temperatul.e-falls due not only to heat-loss the walls , but also due to some work done upon the piston .
If the absolute temperatures at and be as then the total or true temperature-falls due to heat-loss to the walls in the double operation of expansion and compression are ' ( 5 ) mean specific heat at constant volume for the temp r between and D. For the successive double operations uween D and , the temperature-falls due to heat-loss through the walls are obtained in the same way .
Taking temperature-falls between those points as , etc. , , etc. , ( 6 ) that is , the true temperature-falls , etc. , are less than the apparent falls , , etc. , by the temperature equivalents of the respective work-areas , , etc. To calculate the specific heat from the expansion lines BC , DE , FG and HI , it is necessary to know the workareas and , as also the temperature-falls , , due to heat flow through the enclosing walls .
All these values are given by direct from the diagrams , except the latter , , and to determine this it is necessary to convert the differences between the work-areas concerned into their Mr. D. Clerk .
On the Phenomena in the [ Feb. 24 , temperature-fall equivalents .
For this purpose the values , are required ; that is , the specific heats must be known before an accurate cooling curve can be prepared .
This can be readily done with sufficient accuracy with two approximations .
For a lirst approximation assume that , , etc. , correctly represent the temperature-falls due to heatflow the walls ; then construct a curve showing temperature-drop per reyolution , shown in black line at fig. 3 , which is taken No. ' 5 FIG. 3 .
curve it will be seen that the temperature-drop assumed entirely due to heat-flow in one expansion stloke BC is equal to the ordinate ; let * The original enlarged indicator diagram cards are preserved for reference at ] ) Society .
1906 .
] linder of the Internal Combustion Engine .
this be .(\fnof ; mn , then .
( 7 ) Values similar to are calculated from the losses on DE , , etc. , then these values are used to calculate , etc. , the temperature-fall equivalents of the areas ; etc. , etc. If then , etc. , be deducted from and , etc. , we values , etc. , which give successiye temperature-falls per revolution .
These are used to construct a second temperaturefall curve .
This curve is shown in fig. 3 in dotted lines .
By the new values of the temperature-falls equal to the ordinates , etc. , another value of the specific heat is obtained for each expansion line , and a third temperature-fall curve is plotted .
This curve , however , lies so close to the dotted that is indistinguishable ; and if the dotted curve be used the values so obtained of , etc. , are accurate within the error of experiment .
By applying the same method to the points and I , adding the temperatnre-fall equivalent of ; ; etc. , temperature-fall curve is obtained calculated from the maximum volume , and such a curve is shown at fig. 4 in dotted lines .
The specific heats on the different expansion lines are then obtained by ( 2 ) , etc. It is found , however , that calculations made from the in this manner are liable to considerable disturbance due to possible indicator errors so small as mm. It was therefore considered desirable to make the specific heat calculations from measurements relating to the upper part of the evrams , where the temperature differences to be measured are at a maximum .
In order to determine the law of heat-loss at the upper ends of the diagram , it is necessary to investigate the curve more closely .
If the true temperature-falls due to on the stroke be plotted with the mean temperatures of the working fluid during the double stroke , and the lines corresponding with the mean temperatures of the expansion stroke be drawn , cutting the curve so produced , it is foumd that the temperature-falls given by this curve at the mean temperatures of the expansion lines\mdash ; divided by two to give the correct value for a single stroke\mdash ; are the same as those found by the method above described from the dotted curve , fig. 3 . .
D. Clerk .
On the Phenomena in the [ Feb. 24 , - . .
4 shows such a curve ; it has been obtained by rement of meau peratures on the successive pairs of compression and expansion lines , and by taking values of -fall for the double stroke from the dotted curve , On the full vertical lines the curve are drawn points representing mean temperatures respectively on expansion and compression lines BC and Cl ) , DE and and , and HI and IJ .
The vertical dotted lines refer to mettll temperatures or expansion lines , FG and HI only .
The temperature-falls shown by the ordinates in full lines are taken from the dotted curve , Numerous curves of this ve been calculated , prove that the 1906 .
] of the Combustion Engine .
temperature-fall may without eciable error be taken from the mean temperature curve in this way .
This fact is applied to the determination of temperature-falls at the high-pressure part of the stroke as follows:\mdash ; eferring to fig. 1 , the vertical line marked 3/ 10 cuts the expansion and compression lines of the at three-tenths of the engine stroke .
This is the part which is to be ated to determine specific heat .
To the partial from the complete lines , the compression lines on fig. 1 are rked successively , etc. , and the expansion lines , etc. MEAN OOUBLE COMPLETE STROKES FIG. 5 .
Work is done upon the gas equal to on the first compression line lc , and done by the gas on the piston by the first expansion line lc , the work .
The heat lost during the partial compression and expansion is thus measured by the temperature-fall between and plus the temperature-fall equivalent of the area .
By the specific heat value already calculated for the complete expansion line , the value of the total temperature-fall equivalent to the heat lost is obtained .
The total temperature-fall has now to be divided between the compression and expansion lines .
For this purpose the mean temperatures are calculated for lc and le , and a mean temperature-fall curve drawn for the upper threetenths stroke ( see 6 ) .
On fig. 6 the full vertical lines cutting the curves are drawn through the mean temperatures respectively of the partial compression and expansion lines lc le , , and , and the dotted lines le , , and value , , for the temperature-fall on the expansion line le is taken from Mr. D. Clerk .
On the Phenomena in the [ Feb. 24 , the curve , fig. 6 .
The mean specific heat on the expansion line le is thus ' between the temperature limits and .
The other expansion lines are calculated in the same manner .
FIG. 6 .
It was found that the specific-heat values obtained as above from the upper three-tenths diagram were lower than those obtained for the whole stroke .
New temperature-fall curves were , therefore , drawn for diagram , taking the average specific-heat value found as above described , on the upper three-tenths stroke .
One of these curves is shown in dotted lines in the diagram 6 .
The final specifc-heat calculation was made , using these temperatule-fall curves in a similar manner to that described above .
It was found that the temperature-faJl curves obtained by using the specific heat finally obtained 1906 .
] Cylinder of the Combustion Engine .
do not differ appreciably from the curves obtained when the average specific-heat value on the upper three-tenths stroke is used .
It was , therefore , unnecessary to make a further calculation .
So much for the method of examination and calculation adopted .
In what follows , the last described method of obtaining specific heat has been followed .
Engine and other Apparatus for Experiments .
engine used for the experiments was of the well-known four-cycle type , 14 inches diameter cylinder and 22 inches stroke , designed for a full load of 60 brake horse- power at 160 revolutions per minute .
It was constructed by the National Gas Engine Company , Limited , and was used by the Thermodynamic Standards Committee of the Institution of Civil ineers , in conjunction with the present writer , for determination of data required for an ideal standard of comparison .
It was carefully measured and calibrated by the Committee , the relevant matters being as follows:\mdash ; cub. Volume swept by piston-stroke 3390 Total volume 4164 Compression space 774 Compression per cent. of total volume Fig. 7 shows a vertical longitudinal section and part horizontal section .
The indicator used was of the Casertelli type .
It was caref.ully measured , and the calibrated , by the writer .
The coal-gas drawn into the cylinder was measured by a meter which had been tested by the Committee , and the air supplied was also sured by anemometer , also calibrated by the Committee .
During the experiments , observations were made of temperatures of gas , air , and water flowing into and out of the engine water-jacket .
Analyses of the coal-gas used were made , and the heat of its combustion was determined by the Junker calorimeter .
No leakage could be detected past either piston or valves during the experiments .
Apparent -Heat Values.\mdash ; To determine the specific-heat values , tlJe engine was run without load , and the governor adjusted to keep the speed at about 120 revolutions per minute .
The total revolutions were determined by counter ; the total number of explosions were also so determined .
The water-jacket was kept cold by passing water through it at a sufficient rate .
Gas consumption was taken , and barometer and thermometers 1ead .
The rate of engine revolutions was also taken by neter .
To make an vation the indicator cock was opened and a trigger operated , Mr. D. Clerk .
On the in [ Feb. 24 , after a charge had been taken in , to liberate the springs , on the exh and inlet valve cam rollers .
The springs displaced the rollers along their pins , them beyond the action of the cams .
Consequently , the exhaust and inlet valves remained closed , so ) the electric spark produced the usual power-stroke explosion , the products of combustion produced were entirely retained in ) cylinder and alternately compressed and expanded behind the piston , the ) ) the energy of rotation of fly-wheel .
FIG. The indicator pencil was htly held against the card a number of revolutions and traced a series of gradually ) lines .
The tachometer was observed and made at the moment of explosion , and at the of last contact with the card .
In this way the actual time of double operation was accurately known .
1)uring the first five revolutionls after explosion the speed dropped from about 120 oevolutions to 116 tions , so that the variation was only from 3 per cent. to 4 per cent. This variation , however , has been allowed for in the cooling curves .
Indicator dia.rams were also taken with a to determine the pressure of tlJe charge within the cylinder on the completion of the stroke .
It was found that the cylinder was entirely filled at this low 1906 .
] Cylinder of the Internal Combnstion Engine .
speed , so that the pressure within was the same as that of the external atmosphere .
Thirty indicator cards were taken at this speed for examination , and the proportions of the gas to air were varied within narrow limits to discover whether a slight change in composition changed the specific-heat values materially .
The values of specific heat given are the mean values obtained from 21 cards , in which mixture was of nearly the same proportions .
To facilitate measurement of the faint lines upon the cards , enlar .
photographs were taken , doubling the scale .
All measurements required for the calculations were made from these photographs .
enlents Nos. 1 to 21 accompanying this paper ( see footnote , p. 504 ) , are those from which the apparent specific-heat values are deduced .
In from the rams , the following assumptions have been made : ( 1 ) That constant for all temperatures and pressures of the experiments .
( 2 ) That constant for isothermal compression or expansion for all the experiments .
( 3 ) That no chemical contraction or expansion has taken place due to combustion .
( 4 ) That combustion is complete after seven-tenths of the first compression stroke .
Five expansion lines were examined on each card , and the various values described were calculated from carefully-made measul.ements .
The curve shown at fig. 8 was obtained from Cards 1 to 21 in this manner , so far as concerns the observed points , each of which points is the average value of the numbers calculated from 21 cards .
These points carry the apparent instantaneous specific-heat values up to 92 C. The point was calculated in a similar manner from the upper one-tenth of the diagram , and the point was obtained by similar processes from explosion expansion line between one-tenth and three-tenths of the forward stroke .
The observed points represent the average specific heats for the ranges of temperature of successive expansion lines , and the curve shown so drawn that the ge specific heats given by the , curve over the same temperature ranges are equal to the observed values .
The value at C. is obtained by extrapolation , assuming all products to remain gaseous .
The mean values from calculated from the usually accepted numbers are given , and it appears to be where curve shows .
The specific heats are given in foot-pounds per cubic foot of working fluid Mr. D. Clerk .
On the Phenomena in the [ Feb. 24 , Fr. SPEC .
HEAT PER .
CUB .
Fr. , FIO .
8 .
1906 .
] Cylinde ?
of the Combustion Engine .
reduced to standard temperature and pressure C. , and 760 mm. mercury .
The highest temperature measured for the purpose of this curve was 1450o C. , and the lowest 25 C. The mean composition by volume of the working fluid calculated from analysis of the coal-gas used at the works was Vols. Steam aseous ) Carbon dioxide Oxygen Nitrogen The mixture , however , was varied slightly between the extreme compositions , .
:\mdash ; Vols. Vols. Steam assumed aseous ) and Carbonic anhydride , , Oxygen , , Nitrogen , , These two extreme correspond respectively to explosive mixtures containing before combustion 1 volume gas to volumes air , and 1 volume gas to volumes air .
The composition by volume of the coal-gas used was of four analyses):\mdash ; Hydrogen Marsh gas Unsaturated hydrocarbons Carbon monoxide Nitrogen Carbon dioxide Table I shows the apparent instantaneous specific heats at different temperatures taken from the curve ; and Table II shows mean apparent specific heats for temperature ranges from C. up to 1500o C. From these numbers it is evident that the apparent specific heat of the Mr. D. Clerk .
the in the [ Feb. 24 , working fluid consisting of products of colnbustion in the cylinder of the internal combustion increases considerably with temperature , so that at 1000o C. the value is 28 } ) cent. greater it is at 10 C. , while at C. the increase amounts to cent. The mean apparent specific heat between and 1000o C. is foot-pounds per cubic foot , or 15 per cent. greater than at , while at 1500o C. the increase amounts to over 20 per cent. Table I from Fig. 8.\mdash ; Table of Apparent Specific Heats ( Instantaneous ) in foot-pounds per cubic foot of Working Fluid at C. and 760 mm. Table II from Fig. 8.\mdash ; Table of Mean Apparent Specific Heats in foot-pounds per cubic foot of Working Fluid at C. and 760 mm. Inspection of the curve at once shows that while apparent specific heat increases more rapidly at first , it tends to a limit at upper tenlperatures , so that fro1n 1200o C. to 1500o C. the increase is less than half that from 90 C. to 1200o C. The appearance of the culve would a limit for the ap parent specific-heat value after no reat further increase in temperature .
1906 .
] Cylinder of the Internal Combustion Engine .
Is this a real increase of specific heat ?
If combustion be completed , then there appears to be no other explanation .
Consider , however , the points of diHerence which arise between a real change of specific heat with changing temperature and an apparent change caused by continued combustio1l .
If the continued combustion be due to dissociation , then it would be impossible to differentiate by any experiments of this kind ; but if it be combustion continuing at a given time rate , then discrimination is possible .
With a real specific-heat change it is obvious that values calculated from any expansion line will show a fall along that line depending on temperature-fall only .
No increase of specific heat could occur on the falling temperature expansion line .
This is also true for change due to dissociation .
If , however , combustion be continuing , then the apparent specific heat may vary from point to point of the line depending on the relations between the instantaneous values of the rates of heat addition to the working fluid and work performed by it , on the piston .
If the rate of heat addition be less than tba of work performed , then the temperature will fall ; but if the work rate diminishes more rapidly than the combustion rate , then at a certain point of the expansion the rates may become equal and then the expansion line may become isothermal , and it is even conceivable that temperature might rise .
In such a case specific-heat values calculated from to point of the supposed expansion line would show an increase with falling temperature , and at the isothermal point would become infinitely great .
If combustion continues at a rate which becomes relatively greater than the work rate , it is evident then that specific-heat values will increase all along the expansion line as pressure and temperature falls .
It has been already stated that this is found to be the , but numerous calculations been made from many diagrams which always show this interesting effect .
To illustrate this point calculations have been made from Card No. 5 , expansion line BC for : first three-tenths of stroke ; first half of stroke ; second half of stroke ; and the whole stroke , as follows:\mdash ; Apparcnt Specific lfcat .
First three-tenths of stroke-lbs .
per cubic foot at C. and 760 mm. First half of stroke , , Second half of stroke , Whole stroke , Other cards show greater differences between he first three-tenths and the later parts of the stroke , some as much as 50 per cent. increase .
It is true VOL. LXXVII .
Mr. D. Clerk .
the Phenoraen in the [ Feb. 24 that difficulties of reading and errors of indicator affect the lower ends of the more iously than the upper , and some allowance must be made for this ; but vithstanding this , the difference between the early parts of the stroke are so marked that it appears very improbable that they can be accounted for by any such errors .
Combustion to be proceeding .
Other indications are iven by varying the rate of revolution of the .
If specific heat varies only with temperature , then obviously change in engine speed cannot alter specific-heat values .
To test this matter four cards taken at 160 reyolutions , and four at 120 revolutions per minute , and calculations were made on expansion line BC for whole stroke , first half stroke and first three-tenths stroke .
Results were obtained as follows:\mdash ; Apparent Spccific 160 revs .
120 revs .
Whole stroke .-lbs .
.-lbs .
First half stroke1. .
, , First three-tenths stroke 272 , , This experiment clearly indicates an increase of apparent specific heat with increasing speed as well as increased apparent value with falling pressure .
The effect of increasing speed to some extent introduces opposing changes ; speed means less combustion completed when expansion on the line BC begins , but it also means performance of work on the piston at reater rate , so that the new factors cancel each other out to some extent .
Still another indication is given by varying the temperature of the waterjacket of the engine , keeping the speed of the engine constant .
The experiments were made with the running at 120 revs .
per minute with the water-jacket cold , C. , and hot , C. Three expansion lines were calculated for the first three-tenths stroke .
For cold , Cards 1 to 21 were taken ; the values given are mean values of the 21 cards .
For the hot experiments eight cards were taken ; the values given are means of ei , .
esults were obtained as follows:\mdash ; Appar Specific Water-jacket , C. Water-jacket , C. .-lbs .
.-lbs .
25 .
, 22.6 , 21.9 Obviously pparent slJccific heat is less with the hot .
water-jacket .
This could dlcct the mattel if the only change with is in specific 1906 .
] Cylinder of the Interned Combustion Engine .
heat .
The cause of the change mfty be due to the rise of the mean temperature of the chemical reaction which permits chemical action to be less affected by cooling walls which tend to remove a portion of the contents from the sphere of effective reaction by undue cooling .
That is , combustion proceeds more quickly in a hot vessel than a cold one .
This would produce the effect of lowered specific-heat value by less heat to be evolved when expansion line BC commenced .
The experiments appear , therefore , to prove that some combustion is proceeding .
The nature of the apparent specific heat also , as the rate of apparent change is much greater at the temperatures , the same portion of the stroke .
Experiments made by the Thernlodynamic Standards Committee of the Institution of Civil ineers in conjunction with the present writer pear to support the contrary conclusion , because in this same engine a sheet was determined as follows for 100 heat-units given to the engine .
Indicated work *Heat-loss to water-jacket and radiation *Heat passing away with exhaust determined by calorimeter This appears to account for the whole of the heat at the conclusion of the return or exhaust stroke .
The writer considers , however , that the method used to determine radiation and the exhaust calorimeter introduce an error of 5 per cent. and possibly more .
It is obvious that further experiment is required to settle the question .
Values.\mdash ; Curves for temperature-fall values were prepared from the 21 cards used for the determination of apparent specific heat , each curve alTanged as described to show temperature-fall in terms of mean temperature of the valious expansion and compression lines studied .
For convenience of calculation the temperature-fall values were expressed in isothermal units .
The method of isothermal units consisted in all temperatures to an isothermal line calculated for the particular proportions of the cylinder and compression space .
The corrections for temperature-fall were applied to the expansion lines of the same card .
As the correct estimation of temperature- fall is important , and the accuracy of the specific-heat values depends upon It is known that part of the heat which should appear in the exhaust calorimeter passes into the water-jacket , so that the jacket loss value is too high , while the exhaust loss is too low .
UICI Vi ' bVlllClltb bllC its knowledge , it has been thought desirable to study more closely the mode of heat-loss in the cylinder , and some features which call for explanation .
Fig. 9 has been prepared with this object .
Four curves are shown .
The curves , represent the heat-losses incurred in complete revolutions , that is , in complete double strokes .
Here the surface exposed and covered alternately is that due to the whole sweep of the piston .
The curves represent losses incurred at the upper three-te1lths of the card ( see fig. 1 ) while the piston moves from three-tenths stroke to the end , compressing into the clearance space , and then moves out again to the point of three-tenths of the outward stroke .
The ordinates give heat-loss in foot-pounds per second , and the abscissae mean temperatures per double stroke or double three-tenths stroke .
FIG. 9 .
Curves and are calculated Cards 2 , 3 and 5 , taken while the engine was running without load at 120 revolutions per minute with the jacket water kept at a mean temperature of C. Curves and are calculated from Cards Nos. 22 , 23 and 24 , taken while the engine running at about 160 revolutions per minute with a load of 50 B.H.P. , and the jacket water at C. Accordingly the curves are marked as engine cold and hot .
The heat-loss values given are calculated from temperature-fall curves , assuming the apparent specific heats given at fig. 8 and at Tables I and II to be real specific heats ; but for the amounts of continued combustion believed to be present it appears probable that the heat-flow values calculated are also sufficiently close approximations within the errors of experiment .
curve , it appears that the heat-loss is not proportional to temperature difference , but increases more rapidly as temperature ises .
Further , the curve , when to the zero line representing no of heat , cuts that line at the temperature C. This appears to show that during complete engine strokes , ceases at that temperature , so that the mean temperature of the inner surface of the walls must be about C. , notwithstanding the fact that the water in the jacket is at C. Curve shows that the rate of heat-loss in time-units is greater for the first three-tenths of the engine stroke , even with equal mean temperatures .
The curve cuts the zero line at a temperature of 16 C. , showing that the mean temperature of the wall surface is higher for the inner part than for the whole .
This is to be expected for two reasons : the piston end , valves and caps are not water-jacketed , and their surface temperature is doubtless higher than the jacketed , so that the inner portion presents a larger proportion of hot surface ; also the mean temperatures of gases at the inner end are than those at the outer end , so that the surfaces must be hotter than those exposed at the outward end of the stroke .
This fact explains the smaller heat-loss at the lower temperatures .
The crossing of the line by proves the greater rate of heat-loss at the inner end ; this greater heat-loss appears to be due partly to the greater mean density of gaseous contents at the inner end , and partly to the larger proportion of the cooling surface of the admission port to the whole surface towards the inner end .
Taking curve for whole stroke and hotter cylinder ttnd it with curve similar relations are apparent , but here the mean temperatures of the wall-surface are much C. for curve ( whole stroke ) , and C. for curve ( three-tenths stroke ) .
The total surface exposed when the piston is full out is approximately square feet , and at tenths out about square feet .
Calculating for equal temperature differences , it is found that the heat-flow per square foot per second at the three-tenths end is from to times that obtained for the whole stroke .
From this follows the necessity of .
the heat-flow separately for each part of the expansion curve investigated ; the quantitative law of heat-flow varies with surface exposed and density of working fluid , as well as with temperature .
Every part of the stroke will give distinct heat-flow values .
For three-tenths stroke , for example , a temperature difference of 70 C. causes a heat-flow of 8537 foot-lbs .
per square foot per second , while Mr. D. Clerk .
On the in the [ Feb. 24 , for the whole stroke 70 C. difference only gives 3340 foot-lbs .
per square foot per second .
is , increase of density and change of configuration are together responsible for the greatly increased rate of per unit surface in unit time .
Calculation of the Total Heat given to Combustible from the Indicator rarn only.\mdash ; If the results given as to apparent specific-heat , temperature-fall , and heat-flow values be correct , then the total heat given to the combustible mixture may be calculated by diagram only .
To test this , three diagrams were taken from the engine while it was running at 160 revolutions per minute under a load of 50 brake horse-power .
The diagrams are numbered 22 to 24 .
The heat-flow determinations were made as described , and plotted in work units per whole stroke .
Fig. 10 shows the mean curve .
The apparent specific-heat values were calculated for the proper ranges of temperature from the curve , fig. 8 .
The charge temperature before compression was determined by a method which need not be described here ; it was C. Three balance-sheets were calculated from the data as follows:\mdash ; -lbs .
Per cent. Heat-flow during explosion and expansion 12,480 Heat contained in gases at end of expansion. .
39,800 Indicated work 28,900 Total heat 81,180 i.e. , 104 B.T.U. Card .-lbs .
Per cent. Heat-flow explosion and expansion . .
14,000 Heat contained in gases at end of expansion 40,500 Indicated work 27,700 Total heat B.T.U. -lbs .
Per cent. Heat-flow explosion and expansion 13,100 Heat contained in CYases at end of expansion 40,600 Indicated work 28,260 Total heat i.e. , 106 B.T.U. 1906 .
] Cylinder of the Combustion Engine .
KZAN FIG. 10 .
Ihese values give the total heat accounted for by the indicator diagram of this particular internal combustion engine , and its distribution in indicared work , necessary exhaust-loss and heat-flow through the cylinder walis .
The informs us that in all 104 to 106 British thermal units have been given to the gases in the cylinder for each power explosion .
If this method be correct , then the total heat so found should corresl ) with that known to present from the measurement of gas supply .
The present in the mixture per explosion was cubic foot .
Its lower heat value B.T.U per cubic foot .
B.T.U. Mr. D. Clerk .
On the in the [ Feb. 24 , diagram thus accounts for the 105 B.T.U. known to be present in the form of Calculations from other indicator rams confirm the correspondence of the calculated heat values with those determined from the heat values of t , he gas known to be present .
These apparent specific-heat and heat-flow valnes now make it possible for the first time to study the thermodynamic problems of the internal combustion motor from the indicator agram only , and this the writer believes will materially hasten the development of a complete theory of these motors by it possible to determine the principal properties of in the cylinder itself Many obscure phenomena are capable of ation by the method .
Earlicr ations.\mdash ; Many chemists and physicists have experimented with c Hiru , Bunsen , Lfallard and Le Chatelier , erthelot and Vieille , Vitz , Dixon , Clerk , Grovcl , Petavel , and Bairstow tqnd Alexa]]der .
All have observed a deficit of for heat of combustion to be available ; many explanations have been offered , loss to } alls , dissociution of steam and carbon dioxide , increase in specific heat , and combustion at a time rate .
In present writer made expCl.iments with and explosions with air , and that " " the author 's experiments prove that the arrived at by chemists , the very slow chemical actions ated by them at low temperatures , hold equally in the case of rapid chemical combinations occurring at temperatures produciu explosion .
In a rich mixture , where the acting gases are but little diluted -by neutral , the ation is at first exceedingly rapid , but becomes slower as it proceeds , because of the diluting effect of the products .
In poor mixtul'e , when the molecules of the ases are widely separated by diluent , the combustion is slow from the first This position is now very generally accepted among investigators in chemical physics , and it is undoubtedly true of rapid as well as slo combinations .
When the writer began the present investigation , he believed that these phenomena of slower chemical action furnished a complete explanation of the discord between the theoretical and observed results , and that there was no need to assume any considerable dissociation or variation of specific heat of the products of combustion .
These experiments , however , appear to him to indicate real of specific heat as well as continuation of combustion .
The experiments do not exclude dissociation or any other molecular change which by .
the mance of work would specific heat .
It appears improbable , however , that dissociation should be 1906 .
] of the Combustion material for temperatures so low as 6o C. It is not usual to suppose that either carbon dioxide or steam can be decomposed to any sensible extent at such temperatures .
Mallard and Le Chatelier developed the theory of specific-heat change fully in 1883 from their experiments on explosion in closed vessels , and they give the following formulae for the mean specific molecular heat at constant volume for carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and oxygen:\mdash ; For and O. .
Dividing respectively by 44 , IS , 28 , and 32 , the molecular of carbon dioxide , steam , nitrogen , and oxygen , we ) For O These formulae obviously show that the change of specific heat of the working fluid should be represented by a straight line , and this does not agree with the present experiments .
These values , however , agree fairly with the apparent specific heat at 1000o C. and 1500o C. to Mallard and Le Chatelier 's ures , the mean } ) ecific heat of the working fluid used in the present experiments at 1000o C. would be foot-lbs .
per cubic foot at C. and lllm .
mercury .
The value from Table II of this paper is foot-lbs .
For 1500o C. , Mallard and Le Chatelier works out foot-lbs .
, Table II foot-lbs .
Mallard and Le Chatelier 's observations did not go below 1000o C. , as explosions became too slow near that temperature , so that they have estimated specific heats at the lower temperatures by extending the use of the formulae considerably below the points of observation .
Holborn and Austin have determlned the specific heat of carbon dioxide , oxygen , nitrogen and air , at constant pressure , by means of a heating appliance , a thermo-couple , and a calorimeter ; but their values are considerably lower than those of Mallard and Le Chatelier , and show a much smaller proportion of increase for , and , but their numbers appear to be quite consistent with these experiments .
Conclusions .
The apparent specific heat of the fluid of the internal combustion engine ( consisting mainly of a mixture of nitrogen , carbon dioxide , steam and oxygen ) , when calculated from the first threeMr .
D. Clerk .
On the in the [ Feb. 24 , tenths of the engine stroke , undoubtedly increases between the observed temperatures C. and 1500o C. , but tends to a limit at the upper temperature .
( 2 ) The apparent in specific heat is not entirely due to a real change of specific heat , but requires in addition continuing combustion to account for all the facts .
The rate of heat-flow from the working fluid to its enclosing walls for equal temperature differences varies throughout the stroke .
Increased heat-flow accompanies increased mean density .
( 4 ) The mean temperature of the inner surface of the enclosing walls varies with the portion of the stroke examined from 19 C. for whole stroke to 40 C. for first three-tenths stroke under working conditions at full load .
These mean te1llperatures , however , are not the highest mean temperatures by the walls .
( 5 ) The heat distribution during the operations of the working fluid can be determined with approximate accuracy from the apparent specific-heat values and heat-flow values obtained from the diagram only .
The Casertelli indicator used by the writer for these experiments is one of the ) adapted to stand the rough of frequent heavy explosions rising above 400 lbs. per square inch ; but its indications at the lower pressures are not sufficiently accurate for the purpose of discussing the law of the variation of apparent specific heat throughout the stroke .
For this purpose it is desirable to an indicator of a different type .
The writer has examined the existing indicators , ding the optical instruments of Hospitalier , Carpentier and Petavel , but finds all unsuitable for the d work ired in order to attain further accnracy in this investigation .
The writer has accordingly desi , a novel type of mechanical and optical indicator , with which he hopes to obtain rams which are sufficiently accurate at the low as well as the high pressures .
When these farther experiments are made , he trusts that he will be able to distinguish with quantitative accuracy between the phenomena of .
specific heat continuing combustion .
The writer would point out that the method of specific heat , temperature-fall , and heat-loss here developed is applicable to determinations of the specific heat of gases , heated without combustion .
These experiments on the compression of practically a mass of flame show that even at temperatures the heat-flow to a cylinder is lower on the ] the rate of addition of heat to the ss gns by performing upon it .
For xample , in of these experiments one complete compression occupying second raises the temperature of tlJe contents of the cylinder from 1906 .
] Cylinder oj ' the lnternal Combustion Engine .
1000o C. to C. , showing that the rate of heat-flow from the gas , even at a mean temperature of over 1000o C. , is considerably less than the rate at which heat be added to the gas by work performed .
From this indication it is evident that a simple gas , such as nitrogen , oxygen , or a compound such as carbonic acid , could be heated by compression alone , in a suitable apparatus , to at least 1500o C. It only requires a sufficiently powerful mechanical apparatus to stand the high pressure of about tons per square inch to get any desired temperatures .
Such determinations will be entirely free from doubt due to possible combustion .
The method described requires some modification , owing to the fact that where all the heat is added by compression , at one part of the stroke the gas would be absorbing heat , and at another part giving it out .
My thanks are due to my assistant , Mr. W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , for his very aid in the laborious work of measurin the rams and making the numerical calculations .
I have also had much pleasure in discussing with him the somewhat numerous points of difficulty which have arisen in the course of the ations .
APPENDIX .
eceived March 24 , 1906 .
Tjmperature .
the mean temperature during any expansion or compression stroke or part of a stroke is taken in relation to time , the obliquity of the connecting rod the motion of the piston being taken as simple harmonic motion .
The error introduced by this asssumption is ible within the accuracy of the experiments .
of Heat-Loss sion and Ccmpression \mdash ; It will be noticed that the temperature-fall due to heat-loss is divided between com- pression and expansion lines by drawing a curve whose abscissae represent mean temperatures , and whose ordinates represent the temperature-fall , and taking the temperature-fall on any expansion line from this curve at the mean temperature of that expansion line .
This involves the assumption that heat-loss would be the same on an expansion line , and on a compression line for the same part of stroke if the mean temperatures of the two lines were the same .
In considering the whole strokes , the temperature-fall due to heat-loss on an expansion line can be obtained by considering the expansion line with the compression line above it , and also with the compression line below it .
This has been done , and it is found that the value thus obtained for the line BC ( fig. 2 ) is the same within the error of experiment , whether it be arrived at by considering the pair of lines AB , , or the .
of lines , and similar results are obtained for the other lines .
This shows that the Mr. D. Clerk .
On the in the [ Feb. due to heat-loss on pairs of lines starting from the lower end of the diagram , can be taken from temperature-fall curve obtained by con- ring the pairs of lines starting from the upper end , and hence the value for an expansion line or compression line can also be taken from the curve .
In the consideration of the upper end of the stroke , the case is somewhat more difficult , as the time periods dealt with are not there will be a diff'erence between compression and expansion strokes , in that on a compression stroke at the upper end of the the gases in contact with the cylinder walls have during the immediately part of the stroke been at a lower temperature , while on the expansion stroke they have been at a higher temperature .
On the ) three-tenths stroke therefore the cylinder walls will be at a temperature at the of the part of the compression stroke considered than their temperature at the beginning of the part of the expansion stroke idered .
The difference of temperature will not ) reat , and error neglecting the diffference is a very small one .
This error also produces little effect on the apparent yalue ; an error of 10 per cent. dividing the temperature-fall due to heat-loss between the compression and expansion lines would not produce more than 3 per cent. error in the specific-heat value .
Errors of , Indicator , .\mdash ; In the reduction to normal pressure and temperature 110 account has been taken of the change of volume due to combustion .
This is small and only affects absolute values , and does not appreciably interfere with the deductions based on comparison of the various ures obtained .
In calculating from the upper three-tenths stroke , an error of -inch on the icator card , and of -inch on the enlarged photograph , would introduce an error of 3 per cent. on the specific-heat value obtained on the first expansion line , and an increasing error on successive expansion lines amounting to 5 per cent. on the fourth expansion line .
In calculating from the whole stroke an error of -inch on the indicator card , and -inch on the raph wouId introduce an error of 4 per cent. in the specific heat obtained from the first expansion line .
In order to obtain the comparative results given from different parts of the stroke by errors of indicator , , it would be necessary to make an error to about 1/ 50-inch on indicator cards -inch on the raphs .
There is nothing on the diaoramso to suggest such error as this , and the results are not of the kind that would be produced by indicator slack 1906 .
] Cylinder of the Internal Combustion Engine .
or friction .
This can be shown by the specific heat on the same expansion line , taking the heat-loss correction from the next upper and next lower compression lines respectively .
It is found that the results are practically the same in the two cases .
The effect of friction and slack is to keep the expansion lines uniformly higher than they should be , while the compression lines are kept lower than they should be .
The result of this is that a temperature-fall measured on an expansion line will be too small , as the same height measured vertically will be equivalent to a greater temperature difference at the lower parts of the diagram ; and similarly a temperature-rise measured on a compression line will be too great .
The result as ards the specific-heat value found from the upper three-tenths stroke is that frictional error on the expansion line is to a certain exteffl if not wholly balanced by frictional error on the compression line .
This arises in the following manner:\mdash ; The error on the expansion line causes the gross temperature-fall on expansion to be too small , but to get the temperature-fall which is equivalent to the work under the expansion line we subtract from the gross temperature-fall a temperature-fall due to cooling , the determining part of which is the temperature difference measured between the compression and expansion lines on the ordinate at the three-tenths stroke .
This temperature difference is thus taken small , and approximately too small by the same amount as the gross temperature-fall is too nall .
In calculating the specific heat on a iven expansion line a different effect is produced by friction , according to the compression line which the correction is made for cooling .
If an expansion line is considered in connection with the compression line immediately below it , friction causes these two lines to be too far apart instead of too near together .
The temperature-fall measured on the expansion line is , as before , too small , but the temperature-fall due to cooling is in this case too ooreat , and therefore the friction will produce an accumulated effect .
The fact that the value obtained for specific heat for the whole expansion line is the same whether that expansion line is considered together with the compression line above it , or with the compression line below it , therefore seems to show that friction indicator-slack could not be the cause of the results obtained .

