II .
" Notes of Researches on the Acids of the Lactic Series.-No .
IL .
Action of Zincethyl upon Ethylic Leucate .
" By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and B. F. DrPPA , Esq. Received February 1 , 1865 .
In describing the production of ethylic leucate or diethoxalate * , formed when zincethyl acts upon ethylic oxalate , we assumed the intermediate formation of zincoleucic ether , and explained the reaction by the following equation , in which zinc is regarded as a monatomic metal : C3 0 ( C02 )2 cO 0C C2 , ,n 2 , f2 Cj -I 2 OZ ' Zn 1 } 0^ ^^^C r0 +c m Ho Ethylic oxalate .
Zincethyl .
Zincoleucic ether .
Zincethylate .
In contact with water we conceived zincoleucic ether to be decomposed with the formation of ethylic leucate and zinc hydrate , ( c0 115)2 ( ,2 1(-1)2 O Zn OZn Zn 02 0 +1120= 2 01 +1 OCH 11 OCH11 Zincoleucic ether .
Ethylic leucate .
Since these reactions were thus expressed , zinc has come to be generally regarded as a diatomic metal , a circumstance which has led us to study the action of zincethyl upon ethylic leucate , with a view to the more satisfactory elucidation of the above changes , which finally result in ethylic leucate .
Assuming the diatomicity of zinc , which can now no longer be doubted , it is obvious that by the loss of one atom of ethyl , zincethyl will , like many other organo-metallic bodies , pass from a condition of perfect to one of partial saturation , in which it will play the part of a monatomic radical .
That zincethyl , in being acted upon by oxygen , passes through two distinct stages of change has been already indicated by one of us in describing the reactions of that body* ; for when a current of dry oxygen is made to pass through an ethereal solution of zincethyl , dense white fumes continue to fill the atmosphere of the vessel , until about one-half of the total quantity of oxygen necessary for the complete oxidation of the zincethyl has been taken up .
Thenlithe white fumes entirely cease , showing the absence of free zincethyl , and at the same moment the liquid , which up to that time had remained perfectly transparent , begins to deposit a copious white precipitate , which continues to increase until the remaining half of the oxygen is absorbed .
If the process of oxidation be arrested when the white fumes cease to be formed , the product effervesces violently when mixed with water , owing to the escape of hydride of ethyl ; but when the oxidation is completed , the white solid mases produced consists chiefly of zincethylate , and does not in the slightest degree effervesce in contact with water .
The two stages of this reaction depend essentially upon the successive linking of the zinc with the two atoms of ethyl by means of diatomic oxygen .
The first stage of oxidation is expressed by the following equation : CI2 H5 H C2 to Zn " { Co }I9 +0=Zn"t O C2 0H11 Zincethyl .
Zincethylo-ethylate .
The zincethylo-ethylate thus formed is perfectly soluble in ether , and is instantly decomposed by water according to the following equation : Zn " " { g+2z+ 2i2 O{ SZn { +O } 11 Zincethylo-ethylate .
Zinc hydrate .
Alcohol .
Ethylic hydride .
Treated with dry oxygen , zincethylo-ethylate , in ethereal solution , absorbs a second atom of that element , and it is this further absorption that constitutes the second stage above referred to , resulting in the production of ethylate of zinc , Znl C2H , +0-Znf { OC21H , O0 C HOO C7 HU 5 Wanklynt was the first clearly to point out the probable existence of zincmonethyl , or rather its homologue zinc-monomethyl , indicating at the same time its radical functions , when he ascribed to the crystalline compound obtained in the preparation of zincmethyl the formula Zn2 ' { C H3 In the same memoir he also represented this compound as the analogue of mercuric methiodide , HgIT f CI-J3 More recently Buttlerowt has prominently drawn attention to this behaviour of organo-zinc compounds , and has succeeded in obtaining zincmethylomethylate , Zn " &lt; C3I 0( CH3 ' in a condition approaching to purity , by passing a stream of dry air through a solution of zincmethyl in methyl iodide .
M. Buttlerow 's success in obtaining this body and his failure in converting it into zincmethylate , are both probably due to the comparative insolubility of zincmethylo-methylate in methyl iodide , owing to which the first product of oxidation was , to a great extent , protected from the further action of oxygen .
When , however , ether is used as the solvent of zincethyl , the oxidized product remains in solution until the first stage is passed , after which zincethylate is gradually precipitated until the second stage is completed .
Indeed , as has been shown in the memoir above referred to ( Phil. Trans. 1855 , p. 268 ) , the oxidation , instead of stopping at the first stage , proceeds even somewhat further than the second , and the product formed does not possess a composition in any degree approaching that which M. Buttlerow asserts it to have .
This is evident from the following numbers , and from the circumstance that it does not effervesce in the slightest degree when mixed with water : Percentage composition Pe according to Buttlerow 's Percentage composition iormul C~IT '7 ?
according to mean of formula C2 11n } analyses .
C ... ... ... ... 34-53 25-43 H ... ... ... ... 7'20 5-32 Zn ... ... ... . .
46 76 42-04 0 ... ... ... ... I11 2721 10000 ) 100 00 The existence of monatomic organo-zinc radicals receives further support from the following experimental determinations , which also show the functions of such radicals in the formation of the ethers of the lactic series from ethylic oxalate .
When zincethyl is added to leucic ether previously cooled in a freezing mixture , each drop of the zinc compound , as it comes into contact with the ether , hisses like anhydrous phosphoric acid when dropped into water .
Torrents of hydride of ethyl are evolved , and the mixture finally solidifies to a white tenacious mass , which fuses on the application of heat , and does " Bulletin de la Soc. Chim .
August 1864 .
not distil below 100 ?
C. , at about which temperature a violent action sets in ; a great quantity of gas is evolved , and the residue solidifies to a pitchlike mass , which , on treatment with water and subsequent distillation , yields about one-fourth of the leucic ether employed .
If the above-mentioned white mass , instead of being heated , be mixed with water , it effervesces strongly , zinc hydrate is formed , and pure leucic ether separates in quantity nearly equal to that originally employed .
In a quantitative experiment 12'93 grms. of zincethyl were treated with leucic ether , excess being avoided ; 15'67 grms. of leucic ether were required to saturate the above quantity of zincethyl , and the weight of hydride of ethyl evolved , which was carefully determined , amounted to 3'08 grms. These numbers closely agree with those deduced from the following equation : rf((-'5)2 f(C -I5)2 1 , 2 C2 l^ +Zn J c2 i=C2 O zn C2 E+ 2I 2 } 20 r2 z C , Ot C1 25 [ OC , H J[ OCH-5 , Ethylic leucate .
Zincmonethyl-ethylic leucate .
as seen from the following comparison : Theoretical .
Experimental .
Leucic ether required to decompose67 grins .
12-93 grms. of zincethyl ... ... * Weight of hydride of ethyl evolved. .
3'04 , , 308 , , Zincmonethyl-ethylic leucate is a colourless viscous solid , soluble in ether , but apparently incapable of crystallization .
It absorbs oxygen with avidity and in contact with water effervesces strongly , reproducing leucic ether according to the following equation : O ( 0C2 H)2 ( )2 02 TnZn"211110 0 01 ?
0j2 } ?
Zn " rOH CZ C2 5 +2H1O=C O+ H5 + { OE 2 021 1H 0I11 , IOl , l 02 H5 O C2 ti Zincomethyl-ethylic Ethylic leucate .
leucate .
Zincimonethyl-ethylic leucate combines energetically with iodine ; an ethereal solution of the latter added to it is almost instantaneously decolorized and a large quantity of iodide of ethyl is produced .
In continuation of the above quantitative experiment the following results were obtained .
The product of the action of 12'93 grms. of zincethyl upon 15-67 grms. of leucic ether decolorized an ethereal solution containing 23-75 grms. of iodine , the quantity required by the following equation being 25'04 grms. , r(02C H)2 0 2 ) 1OZnC2 15 Zn 2C{ Z001 , I=C0+ ZaZn IL+ 2C T2 , I. 2C , [ EL(o C2 115)2 Zinemonethyl-ethylic Zincoleucic ether .
leucate .
82 [ Feb. 16 , It was obviously impossible to collect in a state of purity the iodide of ethyl thus set at liberty without considerable loss ; but the quantity of the pure iodide actually obtained was 12 grms. The above equation requires 14'6 grms. On the removal of ether and iodide of ethyl , the mixture of zincoleucic ether and iodide of zinc forms a transparent gummy mass easily soluble in ether , bisulphide of carbon , and caoutchoucin , but totally incapable of crystallizing from any of its solutions .
All our attempts to separate these bodies have hitherto proved abortive , and it is by no means improbable that they are chemically combined .
The action of zincethyl upon ethylic leucate throws much light upon the production of the latter from zincethyl and ethylic oxalate , and scarcely leaves a doubt that , when zincethyl is added to ethylic leucate , there is reproduced the zinc compound from which the ethylic leucate was first formed .
We may therefore express the two stages in the original production of ethylic leucate by the following equations : O f(C2 1-15)2 C. +2Zn " CC OZnC 5+ZCH^1 -0-+2zn 25 2H , O 02 H 1O C , 2i Zillcethylo-ethylate .
Ethylic oxalate .
Zincmonethyl-ethylic leucate .
f( 5)2 f 2(c2-i ( goC 115.z)2g -^ } 0 OZnC2 lOnO 10 .
1-C 011 C2 0 on0II-+ +2 H0=C 2+ { OI +2}O H ?
2H oC100 2H5 O C ) 115 Zinc hydrate .
Zincmonethyl-ethylic Eth , lic leucate .
leucate .

