II .
" Researches on the Refraction , Dispersion , and Sensitiveness of Liquids .
" By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and the Rev. T. P. DALE , M.A. , F.R.A.S. Received February 5 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) This communication contains the results of some inquiries which were started by the authors in a previous paper " On the Influence of Temperature on the Refraction of Light " * .
The same apparatus had been employed , but some modifications were introduced in the method of observation , which are described ; and the amount of probable error from different sources was determined .
The liquids experimented on were either prepared or purified in Dr. Gladstone 's laboratory , or were specimens reputed to be pure , and lent for the purpose of this inquiry by Prof. Hofmann , Prof. Williamson , Prof. Frankland , Drs. Warren De la Rue and Hugo Muller , Mr. Buckton , Dr. Odling , Mr. A. H. Church , Mr. C. Greville Williams , and Mr. Piesse .
The data are collected in two long tables forming two appendices : the first containing the refractive indices of the lines A , D , and H , of 78 specimens at two or three different temperatures ; the second , the refractive indices of all the more important lines for 61 of these liquids , and 10 others at the temperature of the room when the observations were made .
Five points were investigated , and the following are the results arrived at with respect to each point .
I. The relation between the change of refraction ( sensitiveness ) and the change of volume by heat.-The uniform testimony of about 90 different liquids examined was that both refraction and dispersion diminish as the temperature increases .
The following Table will suffice as an example , showing as it does that the different rays are more sensitive in the order of their refrangibility : Refractive Indices .
Liquid .
Temp. A. B. D. E. F. G. H. Bisulphide of 1 11 ?
C. 16142 1-6207 1-6333 1-6465 1-6584 16836 1-7090 Carbon ... . .
36 ?
-5 1-5945 1-6004 1-6120 1-6248 1'6362 1-6600 1-6827 Difference ... ... 0-0197 0-0203 0-0213 0-0217 0-0222 0-0236 0-0263 , This change of refraction by heat was compared with the known or ascertained change of volume in bisulphide of carbon , water , methylic , ethylic , and amylic alcohols , ether , acetone , acetic acid , formic , acetic , and butyric ethers , methylic and ethylic iodides , salicylate of methyl , bromoform , benzole , xylole , cumole , nitrobenzole , hydrate of phenyl , the rectified oils of turpentine and Portugal and eugenic acid , and in every case it was found that the refractive index minus unity , multiplied by the volume , gave very nearly a constant at different temperatures .
Now every refractive index contains at least two coefficients : the one of refraction , which is represented by the theoretical limit of the spectrum ; the other of dispersion , for which the difference between the refractive indices of H and A may be taken as the exponent .
The refractive index , minus unity ( ~1 ) , is termed by the authors the " refractive energy " of the substance , and this multiplied by the volume ( , t--1 ) , or divided by the density , is termed the " specific refractive energy .
" It was not found as a rule that the theoretical limit of the spectrum gave more truly a constant than the line A ; but the difference is within experimental errors .
The empirical law was therefore expressed as follows:-The refractive energy of a liquid varies directly with its density under the influence of change of temperature , or , in other words , the specific refractive energy of a liquid is a constant not affected by temperature .
Yet the influence of dispersion renders this not absolutely accurate in the observed numbers , for the change of dispersion does not follow the same law , the spectrum contracting in some cases much more , and in other cases much less rapidly than the volume increases ; indeed no relation is as yet discoverable between the change of dispersion and that of density .
II .
The refraction and dispersion of mixtures of liquids.-This question has engaged the attention of several experimenters , only one of whom , however , M. Hoek , has offered a solution .
His formula depends on '2-1 .
Yet most of the results recorded were equally well explained on the supposition that the specific refractive energy of a mixture is the mean of the specific refractive energies of its components .
It was clearly desirable to test this in some cases where the refractive indices of the liquids mixed were very wide apart .
Fortunately , bisulphide of carbon and ether , substances almost at the opposite limits of the scale , were found to mix without condensation ; and another good experiment was obtained with aniline and alcohol , on mixing which , however , some diminution of volume occurs .
In both these cases the experimental numbers were slightly below those deduced from the mean of the specific refractive energies , the discrepancy being beyond the limits of probable error ; yet no other formula could be devised which would give a nearer approximation to the indices actually observed .
III .
The refSraction , disper sion , and sensitiveness of different members of homologous series.--Many such series were examined , and the results are tabulated , the refractive index of A and the length of the spectrum or dispersion being reduced , if necessary , to 20 ?
C. , and the sensitiveness being taken for the 10 degrees rising above 20 ?
C. ; the specific refractive energy , dispersion , and sensitiveness also form part of the Tables .
Methylic , ethylic , amylic , and caprylic alcohols are the first series examined , and it is found that on ascending the series the refraction increases ; the dispersion does so still more rapidly , while the sensitiveness remains nearly the same .
Other homologous series of the same group , such as the iodides , compound ethers , or mercury compounds , were also examined , and they all agree in exhibiting a progressive change in refraction and dispersion with the advancing members of the series ; but in which direction and to what extent depend on the other substances with which the compound radical is combined .
Yet , if we regard not the actual indices , but these , minus unity , divided by the density , a pretty regular increase is found to take place as the series advance .
The following Tables exhibit this : SSpecific Refractive Energy .
Radical .
I|iI l| Methyl ... ... C2 H3 *4105 -2359 3905 ... 389 .
1707 3727 Ethyl .
C4 H5 4482 -2614 '4127 '3905 -4127 4402 '3502 ' 2112 -3876 Propyl ... ... C ... .
4333 Butyl ... ... .
C ... 4402 | Amyl ... . .
CO Hl '4895 *3213 4492 -4432 '4527 -4724 '4306 CEnanthyl ... C14 H15 ... '4750 ... ... ... ... ... 5499 Capryl ... .
C H7 '5096 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5522 Laurostearyl C1 H ... ... 4890 Specific Dispersion .
Ether of Mercury Stannic Radical .
Alcohol .
Iodide .
Acid .
Acetate .
Cd Comp Hydride .
Acid .
Compd .
Compd .
Methyl ... ... ... ... 163 209 168 ... 140 256 Ethyl ... ... ... ... 190 218 174 174 170 268 Propyl ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
191 Butyl ... ... ... ... ... .
191 Amyl ... ... ... ... . .
212 224 198 198 ( Enanthyl ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
241 Capryl ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
237 Other groups of homologous bodies were also examined .
Benzole , toluole , xylole , cumole , and cymole gave nearly the same numbers , and no regular progression .
Pyridine , picoline , lutidine , and collidine showed an augmentation of the specific refractive energy , but a diminution of the specific dispersion with the advancing series .
Chinoline and lepidine ( which proved to be the most refractive organic liquid known ) showed an increase of each of the optical properties by the addition of C2 HI .
Thus the influence of the added increment on the rays of light differs in different groups , just as it does in respect to the boiling-point .
IV .
The refraction , dispersion , and sensitiveness of isomeric liquids.-Several of the liquids , isomeric with the different members of the benzole series , were examined ; some proved to be identical in all optical properties ; others sensibly the same in actual refraction and dispersion , though slightly different in density ; some again identical in density , but differing in optical properties ; while other isomeric bodies differed slightly in each of these respects .
Several hydrocarbons of the type C20 H16 , from essential oils , seemed to be identical in actual refraction , notwithstanding slight differences of their density .
In dispersion , too , there were some variations ; but not in sensitiveness .
Other hydrocarbons , however , of the same ultimate composition , but differing considerably in physical properties , differed also optically .
Compound ethers , as valerianic ether and acetate of amyl , which contain the same number of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen elements , though differently arranged , are optically identical , as was partially shown by Delffs some years ago .
Aniline and picoline , each empirically C , H7 N , are totally different .
The conclusion arrived at is that isomeric bodies are sometimes widely different in these optical properties ; but that in many cases , especially where there is close chemical relationship , there is identity also in this respect .
V. The effect of chemical substitution.-By observing the amount of change in the optical properties which results from a replacement of one element by another , the chemical type remaining the same , it seemed possible to arrive at a knowledge of the influence of the individual elements on the rays of light transmitted by them .
Of the immense number of data required for the perfecting of such an inquiry , the following are afforded by the experiments already made .
The replacement of hydrogen by a compound radical , aniline-amylaniline ; and water , alcohol , ether ( according to Williamson 's theory ) .
Of hydrogen by oxygen-alcohol , acetic acid ; ether , acetic ether ; and carvene , carvole , eugenic acid .
Of hydrogen by peroxide of nitrogen-benzole , nitrobenzole , dinitrobenzole ( in solution ) ; glycerine , nitroglycerine ; and amylic alcohol , nitrate of amyl .
Of hydrogen by chlorine-benzole , chlorobenzole , terchlorobenzole ; and the substitution of chlorine by bromine-terchloride of phosphorus , terbromide of phosphorus ; chloroform , bromoform ; and bichloride of chlor-ethylene , bibromide of chlor-ethylene , bibromide of brom-ethylene .
When hydrogen is replaced by some other body , there is generally an increase of the actual refraction and dispersion ; but this is due to the increased weight , hydrogen having a very low actual , but a very high specific influence on the rays of light .
In each of the five instances of two substitution-products , as , for instance , cllorobenzole and trichlorobenzole , the lower one always retains in its optical properties an intermediate position between the original substance and the higher product .
These experiments on substitution sufficed to show , as the examination of isomeric bodies had done , that the special influence exerted on the rays of light by the elements of a compound is greatly dependent on the manner of their combination .
The following is given as a generalization approximately , if not absolutely true:-Every liquid has a specific refractive energy composed of the specific refractive energies of its component elements , modified by the manner of combination , and which is unaffected by change of temperature , and this refractive energy accompanies it when mixed with other liquids .

