]\gt ; On the Series in the Arc Spectrum of By J. C. McLENNAN , Professor of Physics , University of Toronto .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received May 14 , \mdash ; Read June 13 , 1912 .
) [ PLATES 2 AND 3 .
] I. Introduction.\mdash ; This communication is intended to constitute the first of a series of studies which have been made by the writer during the past two years .
as opportunity offered , on the distribution of series lines in the arc spectrum of mercury , as well as on the constitution of some of these lines , and on their resolution by magnetic fields .
In making these studies , one of several objects kept in view was the determination , in so far as was available , and the facilities of the laboratory permitted , of the experimental conditions which should be adopted in order to obtain photographic records which would exhibit the yreabest possible amount detail .
In the present paper a summary is iven of the results obtained so far , in an eHort to make as complete as possible the identification of the lines iJlg to the different series in the arc spectrum of mercury .
Of the series formulae in use , that proposed by is the one most generally adopted .
In his scheme of representation , ( the number of wavelengths in 1 cm .
in a vacuum , i.e. ) is iven by , ( 1 ) or , approximately , by where is a universal constant is an order number , A is the limit of the series , and and are constants which characterise the course of the series .
In referring to different series , it has become usual to adopt the abbreviation , for , and in what follows in the paper this practice will be adhered to .
As illustrating the use the Ritz equations , a system of a main and a first and second subordinate series of triplets would have the following representation:\mdash ; Ritz , ' .
Zeit 1908 , vol. 9 , p. 521 .
On the Series Line in the Arc Main Series .
ortest wave-length , , greatest where , 4 , etc. First Subordinate or Diffuse , greatest wave-length , shortest where , 4 , 5 , etc. Second Subordinate or Sharp Series .
reatest wave-length , , shortest where , etc. Preliminary to proceeding with the identification of series lines in the arc spectrum of mercury , a rlumber of photographs were taken of this spectrum with a quartz prism spectrograph .
The sources used in turn for the production of the light included ( 1 ) a fused quartz Geissler tube with mercury electrodes ; ( 2 ) a quartz glass Heraeus mercury arc-lamp ; ( 3 ) fused quartz arc-lamp of special design shown in fig. 1 , which permitted either end-on or lateral the electrodeless discharge in the FIe .
1 .
*This formula is also written in a more abbreviated form\mdash ; Prof J. C. McLennan .
On the Series [ NIay 14 , vapotlr of mercury heated in an exhausted fused quartz bulb ; and commercial Cooper lamp with a side tube attached , which was closed ) a thin plate of crystalline quartz .
Of all these sources , the last mentioned the best defined and the greatest number of spectral lines .
The eproduction shown in figs. 2 and 3 was made from a photograph of the spectrum taken with this lamp .
The lines , some of which have become weakened in the process of reproduction , extend from slightly over .
down to about .
This range is somewhat greater than that obtained by ] and Retschinsky*with a fused quarLz glass Heraeus lamp , and by with an amalgam -lamp of the same type .
In the spectrograms published by both of these investigators , the red end of the spectrunl does not extend beyond , and the violet does not go below The otographic plate used in obtaining the , spectrogram in figs. 2 and 3 was a Wratten and Wainwright panchromatic .
( See Plates 2 and 3 .
) In taking the photographs , the red lines were brought out by placing a glass plate covered with a film stained with the dye imperial scarlet before the slit of the raph during an of about an hour .
A cell containing a solution of ymium ammonium nitrate , and a plate covered with a film stained with the dye rhodamine pink , were then inserted for 20 minutes , to bring out the blue-greens .
Afterwards , an exposure of three minutes without a screen was made , to bring out the balance of the .
By adopting this procedure , the fogging effect due to the relatively strong intensities of the brighter lines was greatly reduced .
In figs. 4 and 5 are shown ) roductions of an enlargement of portions of this in the neighbourhood of and .
In each of these regions it will be seen there are a number of lines which evidentl constitute the ends of series .
These terminal lines , together with between 40 and 50 additional ones which appear in the shown in figs. 2 and 3 , seem not to have been observed by Stiles , they do not appear in a somewhat extensive list of aro lines given by him in a recent paper on the spectral lines of mercury .
As a majority of these new lines was absent in the rams taken by the writer with the other sources mentioned above , and as the lamp used by Stiles was somewhat different from the Cooper Hewitt lamp used in these experiments , it is clear that the character of the spectrum one obtains from the mercury arc is determined to a very considerable extent by the type of lamp used .
* Kuch and } , ' Ann. der Phys , No. 22 , p. 852 .
Arons , ' Ann. der Phys 1907 , No. 23 , p. 176 .
'Astrophys .
Journ 1909 , vo ] .
30 , p. 48 .
1912 .
] Lines in the Arc Spectrum of Mercury .
Previous to the appearance of a paper by Dr. S. R. Milncr*on the series spectrum of mercury , but little had been done in sorting out lines of this into series .
Kayser and Rung , their study of th ' spectrum , identified only four complete members of triplets which constitute the or diH'use series and the second subordinate or sharp series of this in his paper , indicates si-x of each of the gloups of the first subordinate series , and seven members in the first group , and six in each of the other two roups of til sharp series , while Kuch and Befschinsky , S in the sprogam iven by indicate seven complete embers for each of the subordinate series .
The principal series was not identified until recently , when Paschcn succeeded in locating the lines in series of greatest wave-length in infra-red region .
By far the first to do extensive work in the lines of the spectrum of mercury and sorting them into series was Milner .
In his paper he gave the wave-lengths of 16 lines , which , in his riew , to the strong group of the principal series of triplets .
He also the wave-lengths of 16 members of the first group of the first subordinate series of triplets and the wave-lengths of 14 members of the first group of the sharp series .
He showed , moreover , that a frequency formula of the Rydberg type gives a close representation of the lines the principal series , .
:\mdash ; , where For the diffuse series , he found the best representation was given a frequency formula of the suggested by Hicks , .
:\mdash ; where ] In a later paper Paschen , who has since made a more exhanstive study of the series lines of this spectrum , identified not only a great many lines constituting the main and the first and second subordinate series of triplets but also a number of the lines which constitute a main and a first as well as * Milner , ' Phil. Mag October , 1910 , p. 636 .
Kayser and Rung , ' Ann. der , vol. 43 , p. Arons , .
cit. S Kuch and Retschinsky , loc. .
cit. Paschen , ' Ann. der Phys 1909 , ( 4 ) , vol. 29 , p. Milner , ' Phil. October , 1910 , p. 636 .
Hicks , ' Phil. Trans 1910 , vol. 210 , p. 57 .
Paschen , ( Ann. der Phys 1911 , No. 10 , p. 869 .
Prof J. C. McLennan .
On the Series [ May 14 , a second subordinate series of single lines .
He has been able , too , to confirm the accuracy of his identification by showing that certain of lines in the spectrum correspond to new combination series formed from elements of the triplet system and of the system of single lines in accordance with a scheme proposed by Ritz .
* II .
Triplet System.\mdash ; According to Paschen the frequencies of the lines of main triplet series are given approximately by the Ritz frequency , where and wave-lengths of the lines of this series are given in Table I , and their distribution in the spectrum is shown in ( Plate2 ) .
Table I. As the diagram indicates it was possible to identify 18 members of the strong roup of the principal series of on the plate from which the figure bCJiven in this paper was made .
Lines of the medium group up to could also be picked out , but none of the lines of the weak group of the principal series of triplets except that to were of sufficient intensity to permit of their identification with certainty .
The lines in the first subordinate series of triplets which it has been Bitz , 'Phys .
Zeit 1908 , vol. 9 , p. 521 ; and ' trophys .
Journ 1908 , vol. 28 , p. 237 .
1912 .
] Lines in the Arc Spectrum ercury .
possible to identify are given in Table II , and are shown rammatically in fig. 2 .
They are , as Milner has pointed out , closely represented by the Hicks formula* where As can be seen from the diagram it has been possible to extend the first roup of lines of this series as ) yiven by Milner , and also to add a very considerable number of lnembers of each of the second and ) groups .
Table II.\mdash ; Mercury Arc Lines of the First Subordinate or Diffuse Series .
III contains lists of the lines belonging to the second subordinate or lsharp series of triplets which it been possible to pick out from the plates .
These are also shown in .
In the first group it will be seen that the lines have been traced to , of the second to , and of the third to The majority of these lines can be identified quite readily in the differer ) plates excepting the higher members of the first group .
These lie close to the members of the first group of the diffuse series , and while they were distinguishable on the negatives they have become somewhat obliterated in the reproductions .
This identification of a number of lines in excess of those * Hermann , 'Ann .
der Phys 1905 , vol. 16 , p. 705 .
For this series ives the formuJa VOL. LXXXyII.\mdash ; A. Prof. J. C. McLennan .
On the Series [ May 14 , noted by Milner was rendered possible , it would appear , through having obtained rather definition in the ultra-violet below , and to bringing out with exceptional clearness the group of lines indicated in fig. 5 in the region between and Table III.\mdash ; Mercury Arc Lines of Sharp Series .
he wave-lengths of the new lines of the erent series just considered were obtained by means of a calil ) ration scale supplied by the Adam Hilger Conlpany with the spectrograph .
All that is claimed for them , therefore , is only a fair approximation to their correct values .
It will be seen , however , that they fit in fairly well with a represelltative formula containing the constants given by Paschen for the principal selies .
III .
Single .\mdash ; In addition to the main and subordinate series of triplet lines the plates in the present paper also serve to indicate the distribution of a main and two subordinate series of single lines recently discovered by A main series whose frequencies Paschen has calculated from the Ritz nsists of the lines iven in Table schen , ' Ann. der Phys 1939 , vol. 30 , p. 746 ; and 1911 , vol. 35 , 1912 .
] Lines in the Arc of Table \mdash ; Main Series of Single Lines , , P. These lines have not as yet been detected , and since they all lie well into the ultra-violet are , of course , beyond the range covel.ed in the } ) lates accompanying this ( b ) A second main series however , consists of lines which fall in part within the limits of the } ) graphs .
Their wave-lengths given in Table able VMain Series of Lines , where and being and being : ; 13571.9 c ) 5803.77 With the exception of the first two members these lines are shown in fig. 3 down to .
As in the case of the main series of triplets the intcI)sitics of lines were comparatively weak , and it was not found possible to identify them beyond the above mentioned linlit .
In his ) Paschen*states that his collaboratol Wiedemann was able to trace the series in .
plates to the member , which would seem to indicate that the consumption of energy in the Arons tube run at 20 which they served to bring out with very exceptional clearness the lines in the red end of ) spectrum .
( c ) The wave-lengths of the different members of the first and second *Paschen , ' Ann. der 1911 , vol. 35 , p. 860 .
Prof J. C. McLennan .
the Series [ May 14 , subordinate series of single lines , which Paschen found to be fairly well represented by the frequency formulae , and iven i Tables and and their distribution is shown in fig. 3 .
Table \mdash ; First Subordinate Series of Single Lines , here 2 , and whele 3 , I ) , , 4 , , 5 , \amp ; c. Table .\mdash ; Second Subordirlate Series of Single Lines , where 2 , and \amp ; c 2.5 3.5 4916.19 4.5 4108.7 5.5 6.5 3.560 8.5 9.5 10.5 11.5 12.6 As the tables and the rams show , the lines of these two series have been identified down to ?
respectively , which are limits somewhat gher than those given by Paschen .
In the table of lines given by Paschen for these series is highest member he cites for the second subordinate series and is the highest 1llember of the first ordinate series he states that Wiedemann was able to identify in their 1912 .
] Lines in the Arc Spectrum of Jlercury .
IV .
Combination \mdash ; In support of the accuracy of his identification of the liflerent members of the triplet and single series of lines in the mercury arc spectrum , Paschen has calculated after the scheme proposed by number of " " combination series\ldquo ; from elements supplied by the triplet and single series formulae , and in all the examples of these combination series which he cites there is an close agreement between the calculated and the positions of these lines .
In his first " " combination series\ldquo ; formed from elements of the principal series of triplets and the first subordinate series of single lines the frequencies are given by where 2 , , 2 , The wave-lengths corresponding to this formula are given in Table VIII , Table VIII .
, D. 'D .
'D .
and by comparing them with those given in Table II it will be seen that they lie close to the lines of the diffuse series of triplets .
In a number of cases they be detected quite readily in the plates accompanying this paper .
This combination series was at first supposed by Pascben to constitute the lines of the third series of satellites of the diffuse series of triplets .
( b ) A second " " combination series\ldquo ; which has been cited by Paschen is given by , where 3 , The linlit of the series is approximately given by and the bers as a consequence all lie in the -red and , therefore , do not appeal in the ) lates in this paper .
Paschen 's .
in this region show a close reement between the observed and calcnlated wave-lengths for the members and ( c ) A third combination series given by him is represented by the frequency formulae where , 4 , 5 , etc. , and is formed from elements of the first subordinate series of single lines , and of the diffuse series of triplets .
The wave-lengths of the lines of this series are given in Table IX .
Prof. J. C. McLennan .
On the [ May 14 , Table IX .
They consist of sets of close triplets with the member of longest wavehaving the reatest intensity and the member of intermediate wavelength having the least .
By comparing these lines with those iven in Table , it will be seen that they lie close to the lines constituting the first subordinate series of single lmes .
A majority of the members of this selies of triplets as given in Table IX could be identified in the eratives , but , as the plates show , only two or three members can be distinguished in the reproductions .
( d ) A fourth " " combination series\ldquo ; given by Paschen is represented by the frequency formula , where 2 , and The first three members of this series are given in Table X. Table X.\mdash ; Combination Series 3.5 4.5 As the table shows the first member of the series lies in the infra-red .
The second member can be readily seen in the plates accompanying this paper , but the third member is not shown in the reproductions .
This line is not given by Stiles in his list of arc lines for mercury , but one very close to it appears in his list of park lines for this element .
In the plates of the writer it is detectable as a faint sharp line , and close to it can be seen another line of about the same intensity and sharpness .
This additional line does not appear in either of the lists of arc lines given by Wiedemann or Stiles .
The positions of the second and third members of this series are shown in one of the diagrams of fig. 3 .
( e ) As representing a fifth combination series Paschen gives the relation , where and , has the values given in Table XI .
1912 .
] Lines in the Arc Spectrum of Mercury .
Table XI.\mdash ; Combination Series , P. 5316.87 4822.5 They have , as the frequency formula shows , a constant frequency difference of with the lines of the main series of single lines .
Their distribution in the spectrum is shown in the reproduction of fig. 3 , from which it will be seen that the members have been identified up to .
Owing to lack of intensity , however , it was impossible to trace the series beyond this limit .
( f ) The last combination series cited by Paschen is represented by , where 2 , and , has the values given in Table XII .
The first seven members of this series are iven in Table XII .
Table XII.\mdash ; Combination Series , S. 3 .
9775.69 4 .
5776.06 5 .
3814.90 6 .
7 .
4078.05 2857.07 2564.14 2378.4 The lines of this series , as can be readily seen , have a constant frequency difference with the corresponding members of the second subordinate series of single lines which is given by .
The positions of the lines in the spectrum are shown in fig. 3 down to .
Beyond this limit the members of the series practically coincide with the higher members of the second group of the sharp series of triplets , and it is difficult to uish them in the plates .
On the Series Lines in the Arc Spectrurn .
Summary of Results .
I. By means of a modification of the Cooper Hewitt mercury arc lamp , raphs of the mercury spectrum were obtained showing well defined lines ranging from to beyond II .
In the triplet series of lines in the mercury arc spectrum the following members have been identified:\mdash ; Principal series\mdash ; First group to Second group to Third group First subordinate series\mdash ; First group to Second group to Third group to Second subordinate series\mdash ; First group to Second group to Third group to III .
In the series of single lines in the mercury arc spectrum the following members have been identified:\mdash ; Principal series .
to 9 First subordinate series to Second subordinate series to IV .
Illustrations are given of the " " combination series\ldquo ; lines , calculated according to the scheme proposed by Ritz from elements of the triplet series and single line series formulae .
In conclusion , I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. S. A. Kennedy for kindly assisting me in some preliminary work with the spectrograph used in this investigation . . . .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 87 , PI .
3

