1873 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
285 Experiment 5.\#151 ; The selenium was also exposed to the spectrum of the electric light in a darkened room .
The effect was feeble ; but by using more battery-power in balancing , it was possible to measure the swing of the spot of light when the selenium was suddenly exposed to the action of the light of the spectrum .
The maximum effect was obtained in , or just at the edge of the red , the violet and blue rays producing scarcely any effect .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; The selenium was exposed to the full sunlight ; the resistance fell enormously and instantaneously , and on balancing it was found to be little more than half what it was in the darkness .
The following were the general results of the experiments :\#151 ; Results.\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the resistance of selenium is largely affected by exposure to light .
( 2 ) That this effect is not produced by the actinic rays , but is at a maximum at , or just outside the red rays , at a place nearly coincident with the locus of the maximum of the heat-rays .
( 3 ) That the effect of varying resistances is certainly not due to any change of temperature in the bar of selenium .
( 4 ) That the effect produced on exposure to light is sensibly instantaneous , but that , on cutting off the light , the return to the normal resistance is not so rapid .
It would seem that there exists a power in rays nearly coincident with the heat-rays of high intensity , of altering instantaneously and without change of temperature the molecular condition of this particular element .
II .
" Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; No. II .
By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The observations in this paper are a continuation of those referred to in the previous communication bearing the same title .
They deal ( 1 ) with the spectra of chemical compounds , and ( 2 ) with the spectra of mechanical mixtures .
I. Chemical Compounds .
Several series of salts were observed ; these series maybe divided into two:\#151 ; 1st , those in which the atomic weights varied in each series ; 2nd , those in which the associated elements varied in each series .
The following salts were mapped:\#151 ; Pb Fa , Pb Cla , Pb Bra , Pb I2 ; Sr Fa , Sr Cl2 , Sr Bra , Sr Ia ; Ba Fa , Ba Cla , Ba Bra , Ba Ia ; Mg Fa , Mg Cla , Mg Bra , Mgla ; Na F , Na Cl , Na Br , Na I. The conditions of the experiments are described .
The same aluminium cups , described in the first paper , were used ; and the poles were arranged 286 Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
[ May 8 , in such a manner that they could at will be surrounded with any gas or vapour .
Hydrogen was used in some of these experiments ; it was purified in the usual manner by drying and freeing from traces of sulphuretted hydrogen ; it was then passed over clean cut pieces of sodium , and admitted to the poles .
An induction-spark from 5 one-pint Grove cells was used , the circuit being without the Leyden jar .
The lead compounds behaved ( in air ) as follows The fluoride gave the eleven longest lines of the metal ; but four were very faint .
The chloride gave nine lines ; one of these was very short .
The bromide gave six lines ; but one was a mere dot on the pole .
The iodide gave four lines distinctly and two as dots , one of which was scarcely visible .
It is pointed out that the decrease in length and number of lines follows the increase in the atomic weight of the non-metallic element , the lines dying out in the order of their length .
Barium was next experimented on , the same series of salts being used .
A marked departure from the results obtained in the case of the lead compounds was observed , especially in the case of the fluoride , its spectrum being much the simplest ; in fact it consisted of only 4 lines .
Strontium behaved like barium ; and so did magnesium fluoride .
This anomalous behaviour was found to be most probably due to the exceedingly refractory nature of these fluorides , all of them being quite infusible , and non-volatile in any spark that was used .
Sodic fluoride , sodic chloride , sodic bromide , and sodic iodide exhibited a behaviour exactly the reverse of that of lead ; i. e. the iodide showed most of the metallic spectrum .
The difference between flame-spectra and those produced by a weak electric discharge are then discussed .
Beads of the chlorides \amp ; c. were heated in a Bunsen gas-flame ; Bal2 gave a " structure " spectrum ( since proved to be due to the oxide ) and the line at wave-length 5534-0 , by very far the longest metallic line of barium .
The bromide behaved iike the iodide ; and so did the chloride , except that its spectrum was more brilliant .
Baric fluoride gave scarcely a trace of a spectrum , the oxide structure being scarcely visible , and 5534-5 very faint me ee .
The strontium salts follow those of barium\#151 ; 4607-5 , the longest stron line , appearing in conjunction with an oxide spectrum .
The stron fluoride , however , refused to give any spectrum whatever .
ikese results are compared with those obtained with the weak spark , and i is shown that the difference is one of degree : e. g. baric bromi e g*ve 25 lines in the spark ; these are the longest lines .
^ In the flame i gn _ but one line ; but this is the longest of all the barium lines , an n very far exceeds all the others in length .
When the flame spec ia compared with those produced by the low-tension spark , the spec i the metals in the combination are in the former case invana v m simple than in the latter , so that only the very longest line or lines are 1873 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
287 Sortie experiments made by Mr. R. J. Friswell to determine the cause of the similarity of the spectra of the various salts of the same metal observed in air are then given , the conclusion being that the spectrum observed is really that of the oxide .
Kirchhoff and Bunsen 's , Mitscherlich 's , and Clifton and Roscoe 's prior conclusions on the points investigated are stated at length ; and it is shown that the observations recorded , taken in conjunction with the determination of the long and short lines of metallic vapours , are in favour of the views advanced by Mitscherlich , Clifton , and Roscoe .
For while the spectra of the iodides , bromides , \amp ; c. of any element in air are the same , as stated by Kirchhoff and Bunsen , the fact that this is not the spectrum of the metal is established by the other fact , that only the very longest lines of the metal are present , increased dissociation bringing in the other metallic lines in the order of their length .
The spectra have been mapped with the salts in hydrogen : here the spectra are different , as stated by Mitscherlich ; and the metallic lines are represented according to the volatility of the compound , only the very longest lines being visible in the case of the least-volatile one .
The following are the conclusions arrived at:\#151 ; 1 .
A compound body has as definite a spectrum as a simple one ; but while the spectrum of the latter consists of lines , the number and thickness of some of which increase with molecular approach , the spectrum of a compound consists in the main of channelled spaces and bands , which increase in like manner .
In short , the molecules of a simple body and of a compound one are affected in the same manner by their approach or recess , so far as their spectra are concerned ; in other words , both spectra have their long and short lines or bands .
In each case the greatest simplicity of the spectrum depends upon the greatest separation of molecules , and the greatest complexity ( a continuous spectrum ) upon their nearest approach .
2 .
The heat required to act upon a compound , so as to render its spectrum visible , dissociates the compound according to its volatility : the number of true metallic lines which thus appear is a measure of the dissociation ; and doubtless as the metal lines increase in number the compound bands thin out .
Mitscherlich 's observations , that the metalloids show the same structural spectra as the compound bodies , is then referred to , and the question is asked whether the molecules of a metalloid do not in structure lie between those of elements on the *one hand and of compounds on the other .
These considerations are applied to solar and stellar spectra ; the general appearance of the solar spectrum shows that in all probability there are no compounds in the sun .
Secchi 's maps of a large number of stellar spectra are referred to as now indicating beyond all doubt the existence of compound vapours in 288 Prof. H. A. Nicholson on the Errant [ May 8 , the atmosphere of some stars ; and it is suggested that the phenomena of variable stars may be due to a delicate state of equilibrium in the temperature of a star , which now produces the great absorption of the compound and now that of the elemental molecules .
II .
Mechanical Mixtures .
The second part of the paper deals with the mechanical mixtures .
Maps of the spectra of alloys of the following percentages are given:\#151 ; Sn and Cd percentages of Cd 10*0 , 5*0 , 1*0 , 0*15 .
Pb and Zn " , , Zn 10*0 , 5*0 , 1*0 , 0*1 .
Pb and Mg " " Mg 10-0 , 1*0 , 0*1 , 0*01 .
It is pointed out that the lines disappear from the spectrum as the percentage becomes less , the shortest lines disappearing first\#151 ; and that although we have here the foreshadowing of a quantitative spectrum-analysis , the method is so rough as to be inapplicable .
It is then stated that further researches on a method which promises much greater .accuracy are in progress .
The bearing of these results on our knowledge of the reversing layer of the sun 's atmosphere is then discussed .
III .
ft Contributions to the Study of the Errant Annelides of the Older Palaeozoic Rocks/ ' By H. Alleyne Nicholson , M.D. , D. Sc. , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Natural History in University College , Toronto .
Communicated by Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. , Director-General of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom .
Received December 30 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author endeavours to elucidate the abundant and obscure organic remains which are found so commonly in the Palaeozoic rocks , and especially in the Silurian strata of Britain , and which are generally known by the vague and convenient names of " Fueoids , " " Annelide-burrows , " and " tracks .
" After expressing his opinion that the first step towards the study of these obscure fossils lies in the provisional grouping and naming of the more marked forms which are already known to exist , the author proceeds to divide the remains under consideration into two great groups .
In the first of these groups are those fossils which are truly the burrows of marine worms , as distinguished from mere trails and surface-tracks .
Some of these burrows ( Scolithus ) are more or less nearly vertical in direction as regards the strata in which they are found ; and they are to be looked upon as being true burrows of habitation .
In this section are placed the genera Scolithus , Arenicolites , and Histioderma .
Other burrows are of a totally

