69 1895 .
] On the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
950 c.c. gave 4'5 c.c. This corresponds to about 04 per cent , of indifferent gas .
The first portion was unfortunately lost , but the spectrum of the second portion was carefully compared with that of argon , and the lines were all found to be coincident .
No new lines appeared , nor was any helium yellow visible .
An incombustible gas from another well at the same place was also tested , and was found to contain 05 per cent , of argon ( Kellas ) .
Some gas from a boiling spring near Reykjavik , Iceland , was collected last autumn ( Ramsay ) , and , on removing the combinable constituents , 7'45 c.c. were obtained from 660 c.c. of the gas .
This is a greater proportion of argon than is present in air , being 1T4 per cent. No helium could be detected in the gas , nor were there any lines which could not be recognised as belonging to argon .
It has been thought worth while to place on record these experiments , although they show nothing remarkable .
We have to express our indebtedness to Mr. Noel Heaton for help kindly rendered .
IV .
" Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
III .
Regression , Heredity , and Panmixia .
" By Karl Pearson , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Henrici , F.R.S. Received September 28 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to develop the methods and generalise the conclusions of Mr. Francis Gallon 's work on ' Natural Inheritance .
' It endeavours to show the wide field which a purely statistical ( as distinguished from a mechanical or physiological ) theory of heredity may be made to cover .
In order to do this it is needful to define certain biological terms in such a jnanner that they are capable of quantitative measurement , the symbols in terms of which they are expressed being the standard-deviations , correlation-coefficients , and regression-coefficients already well known from the labours of Mr. Galton .
The fundamental assumption made is that the distribution of variation in any organ or characteristic follows the normal law .
It is pointed out that this distribution , although very general , is not absolute , and that , especially in cases of disease and heredity , we require the consideration of skew-variation and skew-correlation .
The quantities mathematically defined are variation , correlation , natural , sexual and reproductive selection , heredity , regression , and panmixia .
The definitions given agree in part with those already adopted by Mr. Galton or Professor Weldon .
At some points they extend or develop the ideas of those naturalists .
In particular the author finds it necessary to emphasise the distinction between two 70 On the Mathematical Theory of Evolution .
[ Nov. 28 , types of sexual selection resulting from tribal and individual tastes , and leading respectively to a preferential and an assortative mating .
The mathematical measurement of the latter ( which seems a sensible , if small , quantity in the case of stature in man ) is not quite identical with Darwin 's conception of sexual selection , which approximates rather to preferential mating .
The memoir develops Bravais ' theory of correlation , determining the probable error of the determination of a coefficient of correlation and the relation of a coefficient of correlation to coefficients of variation .
The analytical forms for two , three , or four correlated variables are given , and a proof of Edgeworth 's theorem .
These results are applied to the problems of correlation in local races , of biparental inheritance , collateral inheritance , morbid inheritance , and some problems in * cross ' heredity .
Finally , the problem of panmixia is dealt with .
The following results among others are deduced ; they are , however , to be considered in each case as probable only , and matter for closer investigation and observation* : \#151 ; ( a. ) It is improbable that coefficients of correlation are absolutely constant for local races .
( \amp ; .
) To judge by stature , the father , in the case of both sons and daughters , is markedly more prepotent in inheritance than the mother .
Heredity is thus markedly stronger in the male than the female line .
( c. ) Fathers of sons are less variable than fathers of daughters .
Very tall or very short fathers have more daughters than sons .
( d. ) There is a sensible sexual selection in man .
( e. ) There is some evidence of reproductive selection .
( / .
) Regression is not the same in the case of ascent and descent in the direct line .
( g : ) Elder sisters are shorter and less variable than younger sisters .
( h. ) Biparental inheritance is sensibly infl uenced by sexual selection , the general tendency of the latter being to lessen the hereditary tendency .
( i. ) The mathematical theory appears capable of covering such phenomena as " skipped generations " and the " antedating of hereditary diseases .
" ( j.)Sports breed just as true as a race established by long and continuous selection .
( \amp ; .
) According as the il focus of regression " is considered stationary or progressive with long-continued selection , panmixia will or will not tend to reverse natural selection , both as to magnitude of mean and amount of variation .
( Z. ) A stationary focus of regression , besides an obvious difficulty * Conclusions ( J ) \#151 ; ( g ) are based upon applications of the theory to family data of stature kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Galton .
1895 .
] On the Granular Leucocytes .
as to where it can be placed short of the zero advocated by some supporters of panmixia , involves either a mortality due to periodic selection or a magnitude of the regression coefficient vastly greater than any which are in the least supported by such statistics as have hitherto been collected .
( m. ) Natural selection is more rapid in its effects when unaccompanied , than when accompanied , by that form of sexual selection which has been termed assortative mating .
V. " On the Granular Leucocytes .
" By G. Lovell Gulland , M.A. , B.Sc. , M.D. , F.R.C.P.E. Communicated by J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received August 27 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) Leucocytes whose finer structure is to be examined must be fixed by reagents , of which the best is sublimate ; drying is unreliable , as it does not preserve details of structure .
It is impossible to divide leucocytes into a haemal variety and a ccelomic variety , for ( 1 ) lymphocytes are the precursors of all forms ; ( 2 ) leucocytes are not present in the blood in early foetal life ; ( 3 ) they are constantly passing from blood to connective tissue and vice versa ; ( 4 ) the mitotic reproduction of leucocytes takes place almost entirely in adenoid tissue .
It is only their size which prevents the largest hyaline , eosinophile , and basophile cells from appearing in the blood .
M. Heidenhain 's observations on the relative positions of nucleus and centrosomes are correct , but his theory of the original equality " of the " organic radii " will not hold .
These main threads of the mitoma are connected at every microsome by subsidiary threads .
The nucleus does not lie free in the interfilar spaces , but its linin network is connected with the cytomitoma , and the two are perhaps to a certain extent interchangeable .
This would explain the variety of arrangement of the nuclear chromatin , and the co-ordination in movement of the cell-body and nucleus .
The shape of the nucleus has no relation to the presence or absence of granules in the cell-body , but depends on ( 1 ) the relative sizes of the cell-body and nucleus ( according to M. Heidenhain 's law ) ; ( 2 ) the position of the centrosomes ; ( 3 ) the condition of rest or movement of the cell .
All varieties of leucocytes are merely stages in the development of a tissue .
They may be divided for convenience , and with regard to the presence or absence of granules , into three main groups , the Hyaline , Acidophile , and Basophile .
These forms are all derived from the lymphocytes , which are the daughter-cells derived from the

