]\gt ; XIV .
operties of By HOPKINSON , .
A. , D. F. lt .
\mdash ; Read May 9 , 1889 .
[ PLATES 12-20 .
] IT is well known that for small forces the gnetisation of , nickel , and cobalt increases with of temperature , but thab it diminishes for large etisinoe t , forces .
has also shown that iron ceases to be netic somewhat suddenly , and that the increase of tion for forces continues to near the point at which the netism disappears .
His were made upon a bar which was heated in a and then suspended within a magnetising coil and allowed to cool , the observations being made at intervals during cooling .
This method is inconvenient for the calculation of the magnetising forces , and the temperature musb have been far from uniform through the bar .
In my own experi .
on an impure sample of nickel the curve of magnetisation is determined at temperatures just below the temperature ac which the )netism disappears , we may appropriately call the critical tenlpel.ature .
AITERBACHS and CALLENDAR have shown that the electrical resistance of iron increases notably more rapidly than does that of other pure metals .
BARRETT in his of recalescence , hat the phenomenon probably occurred at the critical temperature .
TAIT investigated the thermo-electric perties of iron , and found that a notable change occul.red at a heat , thought ib probable that this change occurred at the itical temperature .
It appeared to be very desirable to examine the behaviour of iroll with to magnetism near the critical temlJel.atul.e , and to tain the critical , ' Phil. ' Nov. , 1874 .
' , Annalen , ' vol. 11 , Roy .
Soc. , 1888 .
S ' , 1878 .
' .
Trans , 1887 .
' Phil. Mag Roy .
Soc. ' Dec. , ] different ) ) les .
It ppeared to bc desirable to trace tho resistance of iron wire up to the critical temperature , and to examine more particularly on of recalescence , and deterlnine the temperature at which it occurred .
The llost .
resnlts at which I have arrived may be shortly stated as follo small netising forces the magnetisation of iron iteadily increases with rise of temperature till it approaches the critical temperature , when it increases very idly , till the permeability in some cases attains a value of about 11,000 .
The tion then very Stld lenly almost entirely disappears .
The critical for various samples of iron and steel range from 69 C. to s7 C. Heating iron a little above the critical ) eraturc does not entirely wipe out all effects of evious magnetisaCion .
The ture coefficient of electrical resistance is greater for iron than for other metals ; it increases greatly with increase of temperature till the temperature reaches the critical ture , when it suddenly changes to a value more nearly approaching to ot'ner .
Recalescence does occur at the critical tempel.ature The quantity of heat liberated in rec lescence has been measured and is found to be quite comparable with the heat required to melt bodies .
Since aking the experiments and writing the preliminary notes which have already appeal.ed in the ' ceedings of the Royal Society , ' my attention has been called to two papers which deal in part with some of the matters on which I have been experimenting .
PIONCHON has shown that the specific heat of iron is very much greater at a red heat than at ordinary temperatures .
W. KOHLBAUSCH , in an ting paper , that , whereas the temperature coefficient of resistance of iron is much greater than usual for nperatures below the critical temperature , it suddenly diminishes on passing that temperature .
He also identifies the temperature of recalescence with the critical te1nperature .
So far as resistance of iron is concel.ned , W. KOHLRAUSCH has anticipated my , which I give , however , for the sake of completeness .
method of .
the netic experiments was the same as that used by ROWLAND .
The cop per wire was , however , insulated carefully wich asbestos paper over the wire , and with layers of asbestos paper between the successive layers of the wire .
The insulation resistance between the primary and the secondary coils was lways tested , both at the ordinary temperature and at the maximum temperature used .
At the ordinary temperature this resistance always exceeded a megohm ; at Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 103 , p. 1122 .
' MANN , Annalell , ' vol. 33 , 1888 .
PROPERTIES IRON AT A HIGH MPERATURE .
the maximum temperature it exceeded 10,000 ohms , and generally lay between 10,000 20,000 ohms .
The ring to be examined , with its coils of copper wire , was placed in a cylindrical cast-iron box , and this in a Fletcher gas furnace , the temperature of which was regulated by the supply of gas .
The temperatures were estimated by the resistance of the secondary coil .
It was observed that the resistance of this coil at the ordinary temperature increased slightly after being raised to j ) high temperature ; this I attribute to oxidation of the wire it leaves the cast-iron box .
However , it introduced an element of uncertainty into the determination of the actual temperatures , amounting , perhaps , to .
at the highest temperature .
This error will not affect the differences between neighbouring temperatures , with which we are more particularly concerned .
The resistance of the ballistic galvanometer is ohm ; to this additional lesistances were added to give the degree of sensibility .
The ratio of two successive elongations of the galyanometer is .
The time of oscillation and the sensibility varied a little during the experiments , but so little , that the correction would within the limits of of observatiol ) in these experiments .
The total induction .A .
is the current which gives the deflection is the number of turns in the secondary coil , the esistance of the secondary circuit , A the mean of the first and second elongations on reversal of the current in the primary .
The magnetising force , where is the number of turns in the primary , the mean length of of force in the the current in absolute measure in the primary .
With my galvanometer as adjusted , Grove 's cell , the E.M.F. of which was at the time to be volt , gave a deflection of divisions through a resistance of , 170 ohms , whence Hence The ring method of experiment is open to the objection that the is less in the outer than in the inmel .
portions of the ring .
The results , in fact , glve the average results of forces which vary between limits .
Wrou .
Iron.\mdash ; The of Wl.ought iron was supplied to me by IATHAR and .
I no analysis of its composition .
I asked for the softest iron they could supl ) ' The ditnensions of the were as sbown in the .
sketch:\mdash ; of section is sq .
cm .
of middle line of the coil is estimated to be sq .
cms .
This imate is , of course , less accul.ate than the area of section of the ring itself .
The secondary coil had 48 convolutions , the convolutions .
At the beginning of the experiments the insulation lesistance of the secondary from the } in excess of 1 megohm ; the resist nce of the secondary the leads , the telnperature being C. The resistance of the leads to the secondary and of the part of the secondary external to the furnace was estimated to be A curve of magnetisation was determined at the ordinary temperature on the virgin sample with the following results , shown graphically in Curve I. ; in each case the observation was repeated twice with reversed direction of magnetising currents , and the kicks in the galvanometer were found to agree very closely together:\mdash ; Magnetising forco Induction per sq .
cm .
116 329 1 , 6,041 10,144 12,633 14,059 14,702 15,149 The ring next heated and observations were made with a magnetising force of to ascertain roughly the point at which the netism disappeared .
After the magnetism had practically disappeared and the temperature was constant , as indicated by the resistance , being before the experiment after the experiment , corresponding with temperatures of C. and C. , the induction was determined varying forces .
Magnetising force Tot induction .
small 143 This shows that the induction is , so experiment goes , proportional to the inducing force .
Taking the total induction as esponding to a force of * [ Added July 2 , 1889.\mdash ; Sir ORTH and .
have since kindly analysed this sitmplo for mc following resuIt:\mdash ; C Mn S Si Per cent. .
) Nil 436 PROPERTIES OF IRON AT A HIGH TEMPERATURE .
ten times .
The last currents gave forces , 0.3 , 0.15 , 0.075 , The inequality of successive observations is due to the residual effect of the current last applied ; it is remarkable to observe how greatly this small force affects the result .
In Curve XI .
the first deflection was caused by a reversal of a current opposite to the last demagnetising current .
Comparing Curves X. and I. we see that the effect of working with the sample is diminish its magnetisability for small forces , a fact which will be better brought out later .
Referring now to the temperature effects , we see that as the temperature rises the steepness of the initial part of the curve increases , but the maximum magnetisation diminishes .
The coercive force , that is , the force required to completely demagnetise the material a , fter it has been exposed to a great magnetising force , also , judging from the form of the ascending curves , dirninishes greatly .
In Curves XII .
, XIII .
, and XIV .
the abscissae are temperatures , and the ordinates are induction-magnetising force , called by Sir WILLIAM THOMSON the permeability , and usually denoted by .
These curves correspond to constant magnetising forces of .
They best illustrate the facts which follow from these experiments .
Looking at the curve for , we see that the permeability at the ordinary temperature is 367 ; that as the temperature rises the permeability rises slowly , but with an accelerated rate of increase ; above C. it increases with vexy great rapidity , until it attains a maximum of 11,000 at a temperature of 77 C. Aboye this point it dimimshes with extreme rapidity , and is practically unity at a temperature of 78 C. Regarding the iron as made up of permanently magnetic molecules , the axes of which are more or less directed to parallelism by magnetising force , we may state the facts shown by the curve by saying that rise of temperature diminishes the magnetic moment of the molecules gradually at first , but more and more rapidly as the critical temperature at which the magnetism disappears is approached , but that the facility with which the molecules have their axes directed increases with rise of temperature at first slowly , but very rapidly indeed as the critical temperature is approached .
Whitworth 's Steel.\mdash ; This sample was supplied Co me by Sir JOSEPH WHITWORTH and Co. , who also supplied me with the following analysis of its composition:\mdash ; Mn S Si Per cent. . .
244 047 The dimensions of the ring were as shown in the accompanying sketch .
PROPERTIES OF IRON AT A HIGH This shows doubtfully the effects of magnetisabion previous to }eating , but , comparing it with Table 10 , it completes the proof that the asymmetry was in that case due to force , which had been stopped when the ring was nonmagnetic .
I have dwelt at on these periments because they show two that heating un til the ring becomes non-magnetic does not dear the material of the magnetism when it is afterwards cooled ; second , that by does not bring back the material to its virgin state , but leaves it in a stat .
in which the induction is much less for smadl forces and er for medium forces a erfectly demagnetised ring would show .
return to the effects of temperature , Curves XX .
, XXI .
, and XXII .
show relation of permeability to temperature magnetising forces , 4 , and 30 .
lt will be seen that they present the same general characteristics as the curves for wrought iron .
The irregularities are due in part , no doubt , to the dependence of the obsery tions on previous operations on the iron ; in part , to uncsrtainty concerning the exact agTeement of temperature of iron and temperature of dary coil .
Whitworth 's Steel.\mdash ; This nple w supplied to me with the following analysis of its composition :\mdash ; C Mn S Si Per cent. . . . . .
962 016 The of the were exactly the same as the mild steel .
The secondary coil had.56 , the primary 101 , convolutions .
The resistance of the secondary and leads was at C. iments were first made with the ring cold , partly to the changes caused by annealing , and partly to examine the behaviour of the virgin steel .
The first series giyen in Table 24 was made on the virgin steel .
The actual elongations on the .
are given , as they afford a better idea of the probable errors of observation .
These show that for very small forces the first and second elongations are practically equal , but that for forces between 1 C.G.S. unit and 14 C.G.S. uniis first elongation is very materially than the later elongations .
The ring was now demagnetised , with magnetising forces ranging down to and the experiment was repeated , the results being shown in Table 25 .
Comparing them with Table 24 , we see that the effect has been to reduce the inductions for low forces , as was the case with mild steel , and to render the kicks practically equal , whether they arise from the current applied or subsequently applied .
The ring was not now netised ; the last current , giving a magnetising , was removed , but not reversed , and a series of experiments made , the first reversal in each case being from the direction of the current of last applied .
The results are given in Table 26 .
PROPERTIES OF IRON AT A HIGH MPERATURE .
It is well known that this steel at ordinary temperatures , and for both great small netising forces , is but very slightly magnetic .
The object of these experiments was to ascertain whether it became magnetic at any higher temperature .
The dimensions of the ring were as shown in the section:\mdash ; Tbus the mean area of section is sq .
cm .
, and the mean of lines of magnetic force cms .
The ring was wound with 52 convolutions for the secondary and 76 convolutions for the primary .
It was not possible to accurately estimate the mean area of the secondary ; it is , however , assumed to exceed the mean area of the steel by as much as the secondary of the sample of wrought iron is estimated to exceed the area of that sample ; this gives an area of sq .
A preliminary experiment at the ordinary temperature gave induction ; magnetising force The induction in the airspace between the wire and steel will be ; deducting this from , we obtain the induction in the steel equal to , or per sq .
cm .
; dividing this by , we obtain as the permeability from this experiment .
After the ring had been heated to a high temperature , about so C. , and had been allowed to cool , a second experiment gave total induction 76 , magnetising force permeability The ring was again heated and allowed to cool , observations being made both during rise and fall of temperature , with the following results:\mdash ; TABLE S6 .
As the changes in the temperature were in this case made somewhat rapidly , the temperature of the ring lags behind the temperature of the copper .
These show : first , that at no temperature does this steel become at all strongly magnetic ; second , that at a temperature of a little over 75 C. there is a substantial reduction of permeability ; third , that above this temperature the substance remains slightly magnetic ; fourth , that annealing somewhat increases the permeability of the material .
of Iron at High These experiments were made in a perfectly simple way .
Coils of soft iron wire , pianoforte wire , manganese steel wire , and copper wire were insulated with asbestos , were bound together with copper wire so placed to tend by its conductivity for heat to bring them to the same temperature , and were placed in an iron cylindrical box for heating in a fnrnace .
They were heated with a slowly rising temperature , and the resistance of the wires was successively observed , and the time of each observation noted .
By interpolation the resistance of an .
sample at any time intermediate between the actual observations could be very approximately determined .
The points shown in Curves XXXV .
, XXXVI .
, XXXVII .
, were thus determined .
In these curves the abscissae represent the temperatures , and the ordinates the resistance of a wire having unit resistance at C. Curve XXXVII .
is manganese steel , which exhibits a fairly constant temperature coefficient of .
FLEMING gives as the temperature coefficient of this urve xxxy .
is soft iron ; at C. the coefficient is ; the coefficient gradually increases with rise of temperature to , a little below C. ; at C. the coefficient suddenly , or at all events very rapidly , changes to .
Curve xxxyI .
is pianoforte wire ; at C. the coefficient is ; the coefficient increases with rise of temperature to , a little below C. ; at C. the coefficient suddenly changes to .
The actual values of the coefficients above the points of change must be regarded as somewhat uncertain , because the range of temperature PROPERTIES OF IRON AT A HIGH TEMPERATURE .
is small , and because the accuracy of the results may be affected by the possible oxidation of the copper .
The temperatures of change of C. and C. , are higher than any critical temperature I had observed .
It was necessary to determine the critical temperatures for for the particular samples .
A ring was formed of the respective wires , and was wound with a primary and secondary coil , and the critical temperature was mined as in the preceding magnetic experiments : it was found to be for the soft iron C. , for the hard pianoforte wire C. These temperatures agree with.the tures of sudden change of resistance coefficient within the limits of errors of observation .
Some interesting observations were made on the permanent change in the resistance at ordinary temperatures caused in the wires by heating to a high temperature .
In the following table are given the actual resistances of wires at the temperature of the room :\mdash ; In a second experiment the nces before heating were : soft iron pianoforte wire ; after ting , soft wire , pianoforte wire The effects are opposite in the cases of soft iron and pianoforte Recalescence of Iron .
Professor BARRETT has observed that , if an iron wire be heated to a redness and then allowed to cool , this cooling does not go on uously , but after the wire has sunk to a very dull red it suddenly becomes brighter and then continues to down .
He surmised the temperature at which this occurs is the temperature at which the iron ceases to be magnetisable .
In repeating Professor BARRETT'S experiments , I found no difficulty in obtainin the phenomenon with hard steel wire , but I failed to observe it in the case of soft iron wire , or in the case of manganese steel wire .
Although other explanations of the phenomenon have been offered , there can never , I think , have been much doubt that it was due to the liberation of heat owing * [ Note a\amp ; led July 2 , 1889.\mdash ; Sir and Co. have kindly annlysed these two wires for with the following results:\mdash ; C Mn S Si Soft iron wire 006 289 034 141 per cent. Pianoforte wire .
724 , , ] DR. J. HOPKINSON ON MAGNh'TIC AND OTHER PHYSICAL to some change in the material , and not due to any change in the conductivity or emissive power .
This has indeed been satisfactorily proved by Mr. NEWALL .
My method of experiment was exceedingly simple .
I took a cylinder of hard steel .
long and .
in diameter , cut a groove in it , and wrapped in the groove a copper wire insulated with asbestos .
The cylinder was wrapped in large number of coverings of asbestos paper to retard its cooling ; the whole was then heated to a bright redness in a gas filrnace ; was taken from the furnace and allowed to cool in the open air , the resistance of the copper wire being , from time to time , observed .
The result is plotted in Curve XXXVIII .
, in which the ordinates are the logarithms of the increments of resistance above the resistance at the temperature of the room , and the abscissae are the times .
If the specific beat of the material were constant , and the rate of loss of heat proportional to the excess of temperature , the curve would be a straight line .
It will be observed that below a certain point this is very nearly the case , but that there is a remarkable wave in the curve .
The temperature was observed to be falling rapidly , then to be suddenly retarded , next to increase , then again to fall .
The temperature reached in the first descent was 6s C. The temperature to which the iron subsequently ascends is 71 C. The temperature at which another sample of hard steel ceased to be magnetic , determined in the same way by the resistance of a copper coil , was found to be 69 C. This shows that , within the limits of errors of observation , the temperature of recalescence is that at which the material ceases to be magnetic .
This curve gives the material for determining bhe quantity of heat libelated .
The dotted lines in the curve show the continuation of the first and second parts of the curve ; the horizontal distance veen these approximately represents the time during which the material was giving out heat without fall of temperature .
After the bend in the the temperature is falling at the rate of C. per second .
The * 'Phil .
Mag June , 1888 .
PROPERTIES OF IRON AT A HIGH TEMPERATURE .
distance between the two straight parts of the curve is 810 seconds .
It follows that the heat liberated in recalescence of this sample is 173 times the heat liberated when the iron falls in te mperature 1o C. With the same sample , I have also observed an ascending curve of temperature .
There is , in this case , no reduction of temperature at the point of recalescence , but there is a very substantial reduction in the rate at which the temperature rises .
A similar experiment was made with a sample of iron substantially the same as the iron ring first experimented upon .
The result is shown in Curve XXXIX .
It will be seen that there is a great pause in the descent of curve at a temperature of C. , but that the curye does not sensibly rise .
This shows why soft iron apparently does not recalesce .
Determining the heat liberated in the same way as before , we find the temperature falling after the bend in the curve at the rate of C. per second .
The distance between the two straight parts is 960 seconds .
Hence , heat liberated in recalescence is 208 times the heat liberated when the iron falls 1o C. in temperature .
The temperature at which a sample ordered at the same time and place ceased to be magnetic was 78 C. Comparing this with that for hard steel , we see that the quantity of heat liberated is substantially the same , but that in the case of the soft iron there is no material rise of temperature .
added 2nd July , 1889.\mdash ; Some remarks of Mr. TOMLINSON'S suggested that it might be possible that there would be no recalescence if the iron were heated but little above the critical point .
To test this , I repeated the experiment , heating the sample to C. , very little above the critical point .
Curve XXXVIIIA .
shows the result .
From this it will be seen that the phenomenon is substantially the same whether the sample is heated to C. or to 76 C. ] [ Note added 2nd July , 1889.\mdash ; In order to complete the proof of the connexion of recaIescence and the disappearance of netism , a block of anese steel was tried in exactIy the same way as the blocks of hard steel and of iron .
The result is shown in Curve XL .
, from which it will be seen there is no more bend in the curve than would be accounted for by the presence of a small quantity of magnetic iron , such a quantity as one would expect from the magnetic resuIts , supposing the true alloy of manganese and iron to be absolutely non-magnetic .
]

