1870 .
] the Newer Formations of England .
223 strata , and which produced the discordances of stratification between the newer Palaeozoic and Mesozoic formations , were shown to have acted along lines ranging approximately north and south , parallel to the axis of the Pennine Chain , and consequently in a direction transverse to those of the previous period .
These disturbances were also accompanied by the denudation of strata from off the anticlinal arches , and the consequent disseverance of the Coal-measure tracts over certain definite areas .
The results of these movements ( the second phase in defining the bounds of the coal-fields ) were illustrated by Map No. 3 .
From a consideration of the foregoing observations , the author came to the conclusion that the tendency of the British coal-fields to arrange themselves into the form of " basins " ( sometimes partially concealed by newer strata ) , a tendency strongly insisted on by Prof. Ramsay , F.R.S. , was due to the intersection of the two systems of flexures above described , one anterior to the Permian period , the other anterior to the Triassic period , and that the actual disseverance of the coal-fields into basins was due to denudation acting with greatest effect along the anticlinal arches of these flexures .
The inference that the Yorkshire and Durham coal-fields are really basins rising to the eastward under the Mesozoic strata was drawn , an inference supported by the easterly rise of the Coal-measures along the sea-coast from the Coquette to the Tyne .
Guided by these principles , the author maintained that we are now in a position to determine with great accuracy the actual limits of the Coal-measures under the Mesozoic formations over the area to the north of the central barrier ridge ( as indicated on Map No. 3 ) ; and that to the south of the ridge the application of the same principles would assist towards the solution of the question , though in a less degree , owing to the fewer opportunities for observation of the Palaeozoic formations .
The author , however , concurred in the ' views advanced by Sir R. I. Murchison* , that in consequence of the great amount of denudation which the Carboniferous rocks had undergone over the area of the south of England previous to the deposition of the Mesozoic formations , little coal was to be expected to remain under the Cretaceous rocks* II .
" On the Constitution of the Solid Crust of the Earth .
" By the Yen .
John Henry Pratt , Archdeacon of Calcutta , M.A. , F.R.S. Received September 19 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author applies the data furnished by the pendulum-observations recently made in India to test the truth of the following hypo- .
* In hia Address at the Meeting of the British Association at Nottingham , 1866 .
On the other hand , the views of Mr. R. Godwin-Austen , F.R.S. , which tend rather in an opposite direction , should be well weighed by all who are interested in this question .
( Quart , Journ , Geol .
Soc , vol. xii .
) 224 On the Constitution of the Crust of the Earth .
[ Dec. 22 , thesis regarding the Constitution of the Earth 's Crust , which he propounded in 1864 , viz. : that the variety we see in the elevation and depression of the earth 's surface in mountains and plains and ocean-beds has arisen from the mass having contracted unequally in becoming solid from a fluid state ; and that below the sea-level , under mountains and plains , there is a deficiency of matter approximately equal in amount to the mass above the sea-level ; and that below ocean-beds there is an 'excess of matter approximately equal to the deficiency in the ocean when compared with rock ; so that the amount of matter in any vertical column drawn from the surface to a level surface below the crust is now , and ever has been , approximately the same in every part of the earth .
In order to make this hypothesis the subject of calculation , the author takes the case of the attenuation of matter in the crust below mountains and plains , and the excess of matter below ocean-beds , to be uniform to a depth m times the height above the sea-level or the depth of the ocean , as the case may be .
The results are shown in the following Table , in which the numbers are the last figures in the ratio of the differences of gravity to gravity itself , carried to seven places of decimals .
The decimal point and ciphers are omitted for convenience .
Differences of gravity .
Stations .
Relative effects of local attraction deduced from pendulum-observations .
Residual errors after correction by the method of Dr. Young .
This hypothesis .
m=50 .
972 = 109* Indian arc stations .
PllTlllPP , lll1M Bangalore , +384 -562 - 78 -557 Damargida *\#171 ; ... -323 -926 -455 -584 Xalianpur +341 -208 +338 +315 Kaliana Coast stations .
PimnfP .
* i \#187 ; t t -707 -957 + 69 +320 Alleppy +302 +314 +331 +360 Mangalore -166 -154 -122 - 79 Madras -197 -192 -138 - 78 flocanada +142 +153 +216 +291 Ocean station .
+102 Minicoy Island * . .
+894 +906 + 31 The author points out from this Table that Dr. Young 's , or the usual method of correction for local attraction , so fur from improving matters , introduces very large residual errors of the arc and ocean stations ; and , at places on the arc of meridian , all lying on the same side with reference to Funnse .
He observes that neither the usual method nor his own much 1870 .
] On Actinometrical Observations in India .
225 affects the coast stations ; and attributes this to the want of more complete knowledge of the contour of the surface , both above and below the sea-level , in these parts .
But his own method , in the case m\#151 ; 50 , remarkably reduces the effects of local attraction at stations on the arc of meridian and out at sea ( in Minicoy , an island 250 miles west of Cape Comorin or Punnse ) ; for the sensible negative quantity at Damargida and positive quantity at Kalianpur indicate a deficiency of matter below the first and an excess below the second , which exactly tally with the results independently brought out by relative deflections of the plumb-line as obtained by the survey : and the two large and most important effects , negative at Kaliana and positive at Minicoy , may be said to be almost annihilated by this method of correction .
This last case of an excess of gravity out at sea ( where the surrounding ocean has a deficiency of matter ) being explained by his method , he regards as a very strong argument in its favour .
And he finishes by saying that if his method is thus far successful in the particular supposition of the distribution below , whether in excess or defect , being uniform , which is most likely not strictly the case , there is every reason for concluding that pendulum-observations give support to the hypothesis regarding the Constitution of the Earth 's Crust , when viewed on a large scale , admitting of local peculiarities , like the deficiency of matter near Damargida and the excess near Kalianpur , and the similar deficiency near Moscow .
III .
" Actinometrical Observations made at Dehra and Mussoorie in India , October and November 1869 , in a Letter to the President .
" By Lieut. J. H. N. Hennessey .
Communicated by the President .
Received September 7,1870 .
Mussoorie , July 22,1870 .
My dear Sir , \#151 ; In continuation of my last communication , dated April 25 , 1870 , I have now the pleasure to forward the actinometrical observations taken , during portions of October and November 1869 , with the instruments of the Royal Society , and in compliance with the suggestions which the Committee of the Society made for my benefit .
( 2 ) The two actinometers are of the kind invented by the Rev. G. C. Hodgkinson , and described by him in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 89 , vol. xv .
Further description or allusion is therefore unnecessary , unless I add that the instrument is easily and accurately worked after but moderate practice , and that it is little liable to accident if rolled up in a padded sheet and packed within its own metal tube .
It , however , imposes sensible drawbacks , from the delays incurred in throwing off a suitable amount of fluid into the chamber ; and as this adjustment becomes deranged by any considerable alteration in the radiation , it is impossible to VOL. XIX .
T

