VI .
" Memoir on the Conditions for the Existence of given Systems of Equalities among the Roots of an Equation .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that there is a symmetric function of the roots of an equation , viz. the product of the squares of the differences of the roots , which vanishes when any two roots are put equal to each other , and that consequently such function expressed in terms of the coefficients and equated to zero , gives the condition for the existence of a pair of equal roots .
And it was remarked long ago by Professor Sylvester , in some of his earlier papers in the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' that the like method could be applied to finding the conditions for the existence of other systems of equalities among the roots , viz. that it was possible to form symmetric functions , each of them a sum of terms containing the product of a certain number of the differences of the roots , and such that the entire function might vanish for the particular system of equalities in question ; and that such functions expressed in terms of the coefficients and equated to zero would give the required conditions .
The object of the present memoir is to extend this theory , and render it exhaustive by showing how to form a series of types of all the different functions which vanish for one or more systems of equalities among the roots ; and in particular to obtain by the method distinctive conditions for all the different systems of equalities between the roots of a quartic or a quintic equation , viz. for each system conditions which are satisfied for the particular system , and are not satisfied for any other systems , except , of course , the more special systems included in the particular system .
The question of finding the conditions for any particular system of equalities is essentially an indeterminate one , for given any set of functions which vanish , a function syzygetically connected with these will also vanish ; the discussion of the nature of the syzygetic relations between the different functions which vanish for any particular system of equalities , and of the order of the system composed of the several conditions for the particular system of equalities , does not enter into the plan of the present memoir .
I have referred here to the indeterminateness of the question for the sake of the remark that I have availed myself thereof , to express by means of invariants or covariants the different systems of conditions obtained in the sequel of the memoir ; the expressions of the different invariants and covariants referred to are given in my " Second Memoir upon Quanties , " Phil. Trans. vol. cxlvi .
( 1856 ) .

