The CRCOONIAN LECTURE was thben delivered by JAAIES PETTIGIREW , Esq. , " On the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Ventricular portion of the IHeart of the Maammal .
" ( hAbstract .
) The Lecturer began by referring to the descriptionis of the arrangement of the ventricular fibres of the heart given by previous inquirers , more especially Lower , Senac , Wolff , Gerdy , Duncan , and Reid ; he then proceeded to give an account of the results of his own investigations , which had been conducted on the hearts of the She ) , Calf , Deer , Ox , lIorse , &amp;c. ; all of which , he observed , bear a perfect resemblance to the hum-ian beart* .
In order , as much as possible , to overcome the difficulties of the subject , he availed himself of drtawings , explanatory diagrams , and models illustrating the course and relation of the fibres .
To these last , however , he observed he attached no special importanice , further than that they were useful vehicles of communication ; and it was to the dissections themselves , some of which were before the Society , that he looked for a corroboration of the statements he advanced .
Commencing with the left ventricle , which he believes to be the typical one , the Lecturer stated that , by exercising a little care , he had been enabled to unwind as it were its muscular substance , and so to separate its walls into several layerst , each of which is characterized by a difference in direction .
Seven layers , at least , can be readily shown by dissection ; but he believes they are in reality ninie ; viz. four external , the fifth or cenitral , and four internal .
He explained how the external fibres are continiious with the internal fibres at the apex , as was known to Lowert , Gerdy ?
, and others , and how the fibres constituting the several external layers are continuous with corresponding internal layers likewise at the base* , a fact to which the Lecturer drew particular attention , as being contrary to the gene-ally received opinion , which is to the effect that the fibres at the base are non-conitinuous , and arise from the auriculoventricular tendinous rings-which , as he showed by numerous dissections , is not the case .
Coming next to the question of the direction of the fibres , he showed how there is a gradational sequence in the direction of the fibres cOnstituting the several layers .
Thus the fibres of the first layer are more vertical in direction than those of the second , the second than those of the third , the third than those of the fourth , and the fourth than those of the fifth , the fibres constituting which layer are transverse , and run at nearly right angles to those of the first layer .
Passing the fifth layer , which occupies the centre of the ventricular wall and forms the boundary betweeni the external and internal layers , the order of things is reversed ; and the remaining layers , viz. six , seven , eight , and nine , gradually return to the vertical in an opposite direction , and in an inverse order .
This remarkable chaange in the direction of the external and internal fibres , which had in part been figured by Senae , and imperfectly described by Reid f , as well as other detached and important facts ascertained by himself and others-such as the continuity of the fibres at the apex and base , already adverted to-he suggested might be accounted for by the law of the double conical spiral , which he proceeded for thwith to explain .
The expression of the law , as he coniceives it , with reference to the arrangement of the fibres in the ventricle , is briefly the following .
By a simple process of involution and evolution , the external fibres become ip ternal at the apex , and external again at the base ; so that whether the fibres be traced from without inwards , or from within outwards , they always return to points not wide apart from those from whence they started .
In order to illustrate the principle of the double conical spiral in the above sense , he took a sheet of net , through which parallel threads of coloured wool , representing the individual fibres , were drawn at intervals ; and laying it out on the table before him , with the threads placed horizontally , seized it by the right-hand off corner , and rolled it in upon itself ( i. e. towards his ownl body ) seven turns , so as to produce a cone whose walls consisted of nine layers* .
On gradually unwinding the walls of the cone thus fashioned ( which is tantamounit to undoing the spirals ) , so as to imitate the removal of consecutive layers from the walls of the ventricle , he finds that the gradation in the direction of the several layers just specified is distinctly marked ; and that these layers , as was exhibited in various dissections , find a counterpart in the ventricle itself .
Thus ( the heart being supposed to be placed upright on its apex ) in the first external layer the threads are seen running from base to apex , and from left to right t , almost vertically ; in the second layer they are slightly oblique ; this obliquity increases in the third , and still more in the succeeding layer , till in the fifth or central one the direction of the threads becomes transverse .
After passing the central layer , the direction of the threads ( as of the fibres ) is reversed ; in the sixth layer they begin to turn from right to left , with a slight inclination upwards ; and in succeeding layers gradually become more and more vertical , until the innermost , or ninth , is reached , in which they become as vertical as in the first , but are curved in an opposite direction .
As a necessary consequence of this arrangement of the fibres , the Lecturer showed that when the layers are in apposition , as they exist in the unidissected ventricle , the first external layer and the last internal cross each other with a slight deviation from the vertical , as in the letter X ; while in the succeeding external and internal layers , until the fifth or cenitral one , which is transverse , is reached , t-hey cross at successively wider vertical angles , as may be represented by an kq placed horizontally .
Holding the cone , prepared as described , against the light , the Lecturer then showed how , by the rolling process , a double system of conical spirals , similar to those found in the left ventricle , had been produced the onie anl external left-handed downi system , running from base to apex , and corresponding with the external layers ; the other an internal right-handed up system , running from apex to base , and corresponding with the internal fibres ; and how , seeing the opposite systems are the result of different portions of the same threads being rolled in different directions ( the one within the other ) , the spirals are consequently continuous at the apex .
I-He in this manner explained the continuity of the external and internal fibres at the apex .
By simply producing the threads forming the internal spirals , and turning them out at the base until they met corresponding external spirals , he next showed how the continuity of the fibres at the base might be accounted for .
The conniexion of the fibres at the base , he remarked , is effected for the most part as at the apex , by continuity of their proper muscular substance ; but those of the papillary muscles are continued by the tendinous cords .
This continuity observes a certain order , so that certain external layers are contirnued at the apex into certain internal layers , and turn outwards at the base into their original external position .
Thus the first layer is cointinuous with the ninth , the second with the eighth , the third with the seventh , and the fourth with the sixth , while the fifth occupies , as already said , the middle place between the four external and four internal .
He thus endeavoured to prove that a strong analogy exists between the arrangement of the fibres at the apex and the base , and that the same principle which turns in the external fibres at the apex also turns out the internal at the base , -a view which , while it extenids rather than militates against that of older writers , was strongly supported by the arguments he adduced .
It would therefore seem that the fibres do not form simple loops pointing towards the apex , as generally supiposed , but twisted continuous loops pointing alike to apex and base .
From this arranigement , it follows that the first and ninth layers embrace !
In their conivoltutions those immediately beneath the , ew while these in turn embrace those next in succession , and so on until the central layer is reached , -an arrangement which may in part explain alike the rolling mnovements and powerful action of the ventricles .
The Lecturer next drew attention to the maliner in which the external fibres pass inlto the interior of the ventricle to form the musculi papillares .
He first remarked that when the external fibres get into the interior they are necessarily confined to a smaller area , and are therefore crowded into a mass of greater thickness , which contributes to form the papillary muscles .
He then showed that the external fibres , entering at the apex and forming the " vortex , " pass inwards in two principal parcels or bunidles , one of which comes chiefly from the posterior surface of the ventricle , and winds forwards to enter the apex aniteriorly , whilst another comes from the anterior surface , and winds backwards to eniter the apex posteriorly , a fact which the Lecturer believes has been hitherto overlooked .
On entering the cavity , the anterior bundle crosses to the posterior wall , and forms the posterior papillary muscle , whilst the posterior bundle forms the anterior papillary mauscle .
The fact of this double entrance , and its relation to the papillary muscles , was shown in -various preparations ; and it was remarked that , but for this double entrance , which applies to all the external layers , the apex of the ventricle would be like the barrel of a pen cut slantingly , or , in fact , lopsided ; whereas , by the arrangement described , it is rendered bilaterally symmetrical .
To bring this bilateral elntrance and symmetry into harmony with the description already given of the succession of layers , and with the illustration of the conically rolled sheet , the Lecturer explained that we must regard the primary sheet as having split inito two , or we must suppose a second one superadded , and rolled up along with the first .
In fact , if a second sheet of net with parallel threads be laid on the first , so that the threads upon it intersect those of the first at an acute angle , and the two are then rolled up together in the way already described , the result will be that the opening at the apex will have two symmetrical lips , as it were , representing the two parcels of fibres forming the vortex in the natural heart .
It is well known that the wall of the left ventricle is thickest at about a third of its length from the base , and that from this point it decreases in thickness towards the base , and still more towards the apex , which is its thinnest part .
This conkdition may be explained by a certain modification of the preceding description , --by supposing , namely ( what is really the fact ) , that the outermost and innermost layers extend further towards the apex and towards the base than those which come next , and these again further than those which succeed , and so on with the rest ; the central one being of least extent , and confinied indeed to about the middle third of the ventricle .
In this way the venitricular wall is thickest towards its middle , where it is composed of all the layers , but becomes thinner and thinner towards the base and apex , where it consists of fewer and fewer layers .
Proceveding next to speak of the right ventricle , and especially of its relation to the left , the Lecturer observed that the simplest way to view that ventricle is to regard it as a segment of the left one ; and this view he considers to be most in accordance with what we know of its structure and mode of development .
For a short time after the heart appears in the emlbryo , its ventricular compartment is simple ; but a septum soon begins to rise up within it , which proceeds from the right side of the apex and anterior wall of the cavity in the directioni of the base , and is completed about the eighth week of intra-uterine life .
For a time , moreover , the new-formed ventricles have equally thick walls ; but as the full period is approached , the left , which is destined after birth to perform a larger amounlt of work , comnes to predominate in thickness .
Starting now from the left or " typical ' ventricle , constituted as above described , the Lecturer showed that , by pushinpg in the anterior wall in imitationi of the constructive process in the embryo until it reaches the posterior wall , two ventricles are produced , with a partition or septum between .
As , however , the septum in this case is double and unattached posteriorly , he said it was necessary , in order to complete the structure , to suppose the fibres forming the posterior border of the septal duplicature as coalescing or anastomosing with corresponlding fibres of the posterior wall , whilst the fibres of the two halves of the duplicature itself are blended with each other .
In this way , as he explained , there results a single septum connected posteriorly , and constituted in a manner which remarkably accords with the structtire discovered by dissecting the adult heart .
Thus , when both ventricles are ( lissected at the game time , the fibres forming the external layers posteriorly are found to be for the most part common to both ; in other words , the fibres on the back part of the left ventricle cross over the posterior corolnary tract , and pass on to the r ight ventricle ; whereas , in front , with the exception of a large cross band at the base , the fibres of the right aild of the left ventricle respectively dip inward at the anterior coronary tract , as if altogether independent of each other : an arrangement which induced Winslow to regard the heart as consisting of two muscles enveloped in a third .
When , moreover , the so-called common fibres , posteriorly , are dissected layer by layer simultaneously with the independent anterior fibres , it is found that both pass through the same changes of direction ; and the same rule holds good with the fibres of the septum .
Another possible mode of explaining the septum , as the Lecturer showed , is to regard the layers entering into the formation of the left ventricle as splitting up posteriorly , the one half of each layer winding round to form the right ventricle , and then dipping in front to form the right half of the septum , whilst the other half proceeds immediately forwards to form the left half of the septum .
Both ventricles thus appear to be formed on the same general plan , but they differ materially in the structure of their apices ; and the question arises-which is the primary or typical ventricle ?
Now , while the fibres of the .
left ventricle enter its apex in a spiral manner by a species of involution similar to that which would be produced by rolling a sheet of muscle into a cone , those of the right venitricle simply bend or double on themselves .
Moreover , as the Lecturer siggested , were we to split the septum into two , assioning to each ventricle its proper share , and then apply the cut ends of the commorn fibres ( which cross from the left to the right ventricle posteriorly ) to their corresponiding fibres in the left half of the septum , we should find that we had still a perfect whole-in other words , a complete system of external and internal spirals ; whereas the fibres of the right ventricle and its half of the septum , treated in the same way , would represent only a part of a more complete system-a portion nipped off , as it were , from the side of the perfect cone .
Accordingly , if we would dissect the left ventricle , and especially its apex , symetrically , we must detach the right ventricle as if it were of no account , and dissect layer after layer of the septum pani passu with the layers of the left ventricular wall generally ; on the other hland , the right ventricle can bedissected oniy in connexion witih theleft .
For these reasons the Lecturer is iniclinied to regard the left ventricle as the typical one , and the right as a mere segment thereof ; and in further corroboration of this opinion , he referred to the shape of the right and left ventricular cavities , as shown by casts of their interior .
The left always yields a beautifully finished and perfect right-handed conical screw , while the cast of the right ventricle , although it has the same twist , ' represents only an incomplete portion .
This statement was illustrated by a wax-cast of the venltricles of the heart of a deer .
In conclusion , the Lecturer remarked that the arrangement of the fibres composing the venitricles of the mammnalian h-eart , as he had endeavoured to expose ii , is characterized by comparative simplicity , and harmonizes perfectly with what is known of the heart 's movemuents .
IThe matters touched on by the Lecturer are more fully treated of , and the descriptions copiously illustrated by figures , in his Paper entitled " On the Arrangemeent of the Muscular Fibres of the Venitricular Portionof the Vertebrate Heart .
" By JAMES PETTIGREW , Esq. Communiicated by JOHN GOODSIR , Esq. , Professor of Anatom-yinythe University of Edinburgh .
Received Nov. 22 , 1859 .
]

