2 .
" ' On the relation of the Direction of the Wind to the Age of the Moon , as inferred from observations at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , from 1840 November to 1847 December .
" By G. B. Airy , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , Astronomer Royal .
Received January 9 , 1851 .
The author states , that in a voyage to Shetland , in the year 1849 , he heard allusions to the belief entertained generally by Norwegian seamen , that a northerly wind may always be expected about the time of new moon .
The expression of this belief was so positive , and the implication of the interests of the persons entertaining it was so distinct , that it appeared to him extremely probable that there was some physical foundation for it .
At the first convenient opportunity he therefore took measures for discussing , with reference to this question , the directions of the wind at the Royal Observatory , during a period of rather more than seven years , as ascertained from the records of Osler 's self-registering anemometer .
He extended the research so far as to enable any one to judge whether there is any probable relation between any direction of wind and any age of the moon .
The collection and summation of the numbers was effected under the immediate superintendence of Mr. Glaisher ; and great pains were taken to establish such checks on the operation that error is considered to be almost impossible .
The general result is contained in a table subjoined to the paper .
This exhibits the number of hours during which the wind blew in each of sixteen equal divisions of the azimuthal circle , and also the number of hours of sensible calm , in the period extending ( with very small interruptions ) from 1840 November to 1847 December , arranged in reference to the days of the moon 's age .
The author remarks , that while this table shows that there is great uncertainty in the verification of an empirical law , even from nearly ninety lunations , it seems very distinctly to negative the asserted law which gave rise to the inquiry .

