]\gt ; The Vortex Ring Theory of Gases . . .
terms Hence The Vortex Ring Theory of Gases .
On the Law of the Distribution of Energy among the Molecules By J. J. HOMSON M. F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , dish Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Beceived June 4 , 1885 .
In any kinetic theory of gases the statistical method of investigation must be used , and since the separate molecules of the gas are supposed to possess some properties to very different extents , it is necessary to know how many molecules there are which have the measure of any given property between certain limits .
Thu@ the question of the distribution of configuration and velocity amongst the molecules is one of the most important problems in any theory of gases .
This problem has been solved for the ordinary solid particle theory by Maxwell and Boltzmann , and their researches are the more valuable as the results do not depend ou any assumption about the law of force between the molecules .
In this paper I shall attempt to solve the same problem for the vortex atom theory of gases .
In this case the question is a little more complicated , as the radii of the vortex rings cam vary as well as their ocities .
This is one of the most striking differences between the two theories ; according to the ordinary theory all the molecules of a gas are of the same size , according to the vortex atom theory the molecules of the same gas vary in size .
If this be true , a porous late of the requisite degree of fineness might play in this theory the part which Maxwell 's demons play in the ordinary theory .
For let us suppose that we have two chambers , A and , separated by a porous plate , and that A is filled with gas initially while is empty , then if the pores in the porous plate are so fine that only the smaller molecules can get through from A to , then , though some of the molecules will recross the plate , some gas will remain in and the Prof. J. J. Thomson .
molecules in wilI , on the whole , be moving faster than those in and so may be supposed to be at a higher temperature , since the smaller the radius of a vortex ring the greater its-velocity .
Thus and A might be the hot and cold chambers respectively of a heat engine , and in this work might be derived from the gas which was originally at a uniform temperature , so that this arrangement would not obey the second law of thermodynamics .
If the molecule on the vortex atom theory of matter consisted of a single rin its velociby of translation would be a function only of its radius .
It is , however , for several reasons advisable to take a more general case , and to suppose that the molecule consists of several rings linked through each other , the rings being nearly equal in radius , and also nearly coincident in position ; or what is perhaps better , we may suppose that the vortex core forms an endless chain , but that instead of being a single loop like the simple ring , it is looped into a great many coils ) early equal in radius and nearly coincident in position .
We may realise this way of arranging the vortex core if we take a cylindrical rod whose length is great compared with its radius , and describe on its surface a screw with threads so that the threads make turns in the length of the rod , where is an integer not divisible by .
Then bend the rod into a circle and join the ends , the threads of the screw will form an endless chain with loops , and we may suppose that this represents the way in which the vortex rings are arranged ; it is shown , however , in my ' ' Treatise on the Motion of Vorbex Rings\ldquo ; that this way of arranging the vortex core is unstable if be greater than six .
When the vortex core is arranged in the just described , the velocity of translation is no longer a function of the of the ring alone ; at the same time when a vortex ring of this kind about in a fluid where the velocity is not uniform , the change in the velocity of the ring will be due chiefly to the change in its radius .
For the velocity at a small distance from the circular axis of a vortex ring whose radius is and strength is\mdash ; so that as 8 is very large , a change in the radius of the ring produces a change in the velocity approximately equal to\mdash ; while a change in the distance of the point from the circular axis of the ring produces a change in the velocity equal to\mdash ; .
The Ring Theory of Gase Thus for the same relative changes of and the changes in the velocities are in the ratio of to 1 , and as is very great , we may neglect the change in the velocity of the ring produced by the alteration in the distance between the loops comparlson with that produced by the alteratio1l in the size of the rlng .
The kinetic energy of a quantity of fluid containing vortex rings of this kind may conveniently be divided into several parts .
The first part consists of the kinetic energy of the irrotationally moving fluid surrounding the ring , bhe second part of the kinetic energy of the rotationally moving fluid ; this again may conveniently be divided into two parts , one part being the kinetic energy due to the rotation in the core , and the other that due to the translational velocity of the vortex core .
The kinetic energy of the irrotationally moving liquid surrounding the may be expressed in several ways ; it is equal to the strength of the ring mulliplied by the rate of flow of the fluid through it ; the most convenient expression for our purpose , however , is where is the velocity of translation of the vortex ring resolved along the normal to its plane , is the radius of the and A a constant .
( See p. 12 of my " " Treatise on the Motion of Vortex Rings The energy due to the rotation of the vortex core is where is the number of loops in the ring , the density of the fluid , and the strength of the rin The kinetic energy due to the translational velocity the ring is , where is the mass of fluid in the ring and the square of the velocity of the ring .
Thus if be the whole kinetic energy due to the ring\mdash ; .
Let us consider a vortex ring placed in a fluid where there is a velocity potential independent of that due to the vortex ring itself , the value of is supposed to be known at every point of the fluid .
We have to fix the position , size , and motion of the ring .
We can do this if we know the coordinates of its centre , its radius , the direction cosines of its plane , and bhat part of the velocity at the ring which is due to the ring itself .
is not necessarily the actual velocity of the ring , for this latter quantity is the Prof. J. J. Thomson .
resultant of V , and the velocity whose components are Let Then we shall prove that it is possible to determine and so that the number of molecules which have the values of between , and , and for which the kinetic enel.gy of the molecule and the sul.rounding flnid is , is when the gas is in a uniform and steady state\mdash ; where is some constant determined by the number of moIecules in the gas .
We shall first prove that this represents a possible distribution among the molecules of the quanlities denoted by , when the vortex rings are moving in a fluid whose velocity varies from point to point ; ws disregard for the present the effects of any collisions which may take place among the vorlex rings themselves .
In this case the rings are supposed to be so far apart that they do not influence each other , so that the velocity of any ring is the same as if the others did not exist .
represents the kinetic energy due to the ring and the distribution of velocity potential on this supposition .
We have to prove that if the distribution bo represented by this expression at any time , if will continue to be represented by it .
This will be the case if the expression remains constant as the molecules move about .
Now , the kinetic energy , remains constant , so that we have to prove that also remains constant .
Since is the part of the velocity potential which is not due to the rings themselves , by the equations on and 66 of my " " Treatise on the Motion of Vortex Rings we have\mdash ; ; The Vortex Ring Theory of Gases .
where so that if be the changes in respectively in the time then\mdash ; and if are the changes in in the time where are the component velocities of the centre of the vortex ring .
Let be the values of respectively after the time , then\mdash ; but since Now the change in will be due to the change in the shape and size of the ring , and as we saw before that this is due almost entirely to the change in the radius , thus the change will be , or substituting for its value\mdash ; thus Prof. J. J. Thomson .
Substituting for and , their values , we get Similarly , If neglect the squares of Now And by the equations written above and But and since we see that a homogeneous function of of zero dimensions , and therefore by Euler 's theorem The Vortex Ring Theory of Gases .
hence , so that if and therefore the distribution represented by the expression will be permanent if there are no collisions between the molecules .
We shall now go on to show that this expression will represent the distribution of coordinates and momenta among the molecules even when collisions take place , at any rate if the collisions are not very olent .
Let us call the group of molecules which have ths quantities between , and the group A. The number of molecules this group is all the symbols having the same meaning as before .
Let us consider another group of molecules which have their coordinates between , and .
We shall call this group B. The number of molecules in this group is We shall suppose that the molecules of the A group come into collision with those of the group , and that the values of the co-ordinates after the collision are denoted by putting dashes to the letters which denoted the corresponding coordinates beore the collision .
In my " " Treatise on the Motion of Vortex Rings\ldquo ; it is proved that the eflects of a collision depend on , in addition to the quantitics already specified , the angle which the line joining the centres of the rings when they are nearest together makes with the shortest distance ween the directions of motion of the ; let us call this angle is positive for the ring which first passes through the shortest distance between the directions of motion of the rlng , negative for the other ring , and it may havs any value ) etween - and We may suppose that a collision takes place when the shortest distance between the ceutres of the two rings is less than some assigned value ; it is not , however , necessary to limit ourselves to any particular way of defining a collision .
Prof. J. J. Thomson .
be the fraction of the number of pairs of molecules which come into collision in the unit of time and contain one molecuIe from the group A and another the group , and for which is between and .
Then if the states in which the A and molecules are in after the collision be called and respectively , the number of pairs of molecules which in the nnit of time leave the state { AB } and enter the state is\mdash ; Now the distribution will be steady if this equals the number of molecules which leave the state in the unib of time , but this number is\mdash ; We can see that if the gas does not exhibit vector properties mtlst equal .
For since the motion is eversible , if any two molecules whose coordinates are , come into collision , then the molecuIes whose coordinates are ; , will also collide .
Let these latter molecules be said to be in the states , respectively .
rrhus the percentage of colJision for the states ( AB ) , that is for collisions between two molecules in the states A and , respectively is the same as for the state .
But since as many molecules are moving in any direction as in the opposite , the number of molecules in the state will equal the number in the state , and similarly the number of molecuIes in the state is the same as the number in the state , and since the gas exhibits no vector properties , the mean path between the collisions between the molecuIes in the slates and must equal the mean path between the collisions between the molecuIes in the states and ; and thus the percentage of collisions must be the same .
So that the percentage for the state equals the percentage for the state , but this , as we , equals the percentage for the state AB ; and , therefore , the percelltage for the state AB equals the for the state ; or .
Since the collisiom may be fixed with regard to either molecule , and since is positive one molecule , negative for the other , we see that cannot change sign with , so that if is a funotion of it must be one of the form\mdash ; . . . .
The Vortex Ring Iheory of Gases .
Again , and none of the quantities are functions of We have also since the total kinetic energy is not changed by the collision , and neither of these quantities is a of .
Since this is so , we see that the expressions we have assumed will represent a steady distribution if\mdash ; .
Let us suppose that the collisions are not violent enough to make the vortex rings deviate greatly from their clrcular forms , and let us consider the effect produced on an A molecule by collision with a molecule .
Let be the potential due to the molecule , then just as before we have\mdash ; with similar expressions for and .
Here is drawn along the normal to the A molecule , and the coordinates are supposed to be changed by the collision by only a small fraction of their values .
Now the only thing that makes any diflerence between this case and the former one is that now is a function of , and therefore of .
If therefore we assume that , we have Now is proportional to the change in , and therefore , by S29 of my " " Treatise on Vortex Motion\ldquo ; is of the form siu where is a function of but not of thus : Similarly Prof. J. J. Thomson .
so that neglecting the squares of small quantities and therefore Since we see from the form of Thus the condition for a steady distribution is satisfied , and we therefore ] that a possible distribntion of the values of the coordinates among the molecules of the gas is represented by the expression\mdash ; dxdydz , where and Let us consider the case when there is no external disturbance in the fluid containing the vortex rings ; the distribntion will be uniform in all parts of the fluid , so that the number of molecules which have the quantities , between and is independent of , and so by the above formula will be proportional to\mdash ; or if the normals to the planes of the vortex rings point uniformly in all directions the number of molecules which have between and between and is proportional to\mdash ; or substituting for the value 3 Though in the kind of moleoule we are considering , and may be treated as independent variables , iill the limits of depend upon the value of .
For suppose the molecule to consist of rings The Vol. fex Ring Theory of linked together , then for a given value of the velocity of the molecule will be least when the links are so far apart that they do not greatly aflect each other 's velocity ; in this case will equal\mdash ; the velocity of the molecule will be greatest when the rings are close together ; in this case will equal\mdash ; So that if we integrate first with respect to we must do so between these limits .
Since , however\mdash ; we cannot perform the except between the limits zero and infinity for both and ; if , however , be large , or the molecule omplicated , the results got by integration between bhe limits\mdash ; and for and zero and infinity for will not differ much from those got by integrating between zero and infinity for bolh and The second term in the expression for the kinetic energy is very small compared with the first , so that it may be neglected without causing sensible error .
We shall find it convenient to take as new bless the two remaining terms in the expression for the kinetic energy ; we shall call these new variables and respectively , where denotes the energy in the fluid surrounding the ring , the energy due to the translational velocity of the ring , so that\mdash ; and therefore so that where is a new Thus the number of molecuIes which have the energy in the ] surrounding them between and , and also the energy due to the translational velocity of the between and is \mdash ; .
XXXIX .
Prof. J. J. Thomsoll .
and if the molecule is so complex that and may be regarded as independent , then the limits of and are zero amd infinity .
The quantity is at undetermined .
Let us apply this result to find the pressure of a gas on the sides of the vessel which contains it .
To do this we must considel .
what takes place at the sides of the vessel .
The general nature of this action was described by Sir William Thomson ( ' : Nature vol. xxiv , p. 47 ) .
As the vortex rings move up to the sides of bhe vessel swell out and move slowly up the bounding surface , where they form a layer of ] vortices sticking to the sides of the vessel .
A vortex coming up the surface tends to wash off the vortex rings attached to the surface on either side of , so that when things have got into a state of equilibrium there is a vortex ring washed off for each one at comes ' up .
Thus the ressure on the surface of the vessel will be the same as if the vortex ring struck against surface and was reflected away again with its velocity reversed , if we assume , as sesms natural , that the average velocity of the rings leaving the surface is same as of those approaching it .
Thus each ring that comes up may be looked upon as communicating twice its momentum to the surface , and we can explain the pressure of a gas , just as in the ordinary theory .
We have to remark here , however , that the phrase momentum of the vortex ring is uous , as there are two dffierent momenta conrected with the ring ; there is ( 1 ) the momentum of the ring and the fluid surrounding it ; and ( 2 ) the momentum of the fluid forming the ring alone ; this is proportional to the velocity of the ring , while ( 1 ) is not only not proportional to the , but in the single ring decreases as the velocity of the ring increases ; in a very complex ring it does not necessarily do this , but even in this case it is not proportionaI to the velocity .
Now , when a vortex ring gets stopped by a surface the question arises whether the molllentum communicated to the surface is the momentum ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) .
The answer to this question depends on what we consider the nature of the surface to be .
If the surface stops the fluid as well as the ring , then no doubt ( 1 ) is the momentum which is communicated to the surface .
If , however , tho surface stops the ring but allows the greaber part of the fluid to flow on , then the momentnm communicated to ] surface is evidently approximately equal to ( 2 ) .
If we consider that the surface is formed of vortex rin the atter supposition seems the more probable , as ) fluid iu which the rings move can hardly be supposed to be stopped by such a porous surface .
We may illustrate this by a mechanical analogy .
Let us suppose that we have a number of ancho rings with circulation Vortex Ring Theory of Gases .
established round them moving about in water , and striking against a grating immersed in it .
The momentum of the anchor rin will consist of two parts , one dne to the circulation , the other due to the translational velocity of the ring .
If the grating is so fine that the openings al.e only a small fraction of the whole area , then the lnomentnm communicated to the grating will be the whole momen .
; if , however , the grating is a coarse one , so that the openings form the larger portion of the area , them the momentum communicated to the grating will only be the momentum of the ring itself .
And this seems to correspoud to the case of vortex motion .
Thus if be the velocity of the gas resolved along the normal to the boundary surface , the pressure on the surface per unit of area or ihe momentum communicated to it per unit of time is\mdash ; using the same notation as before .
Now , the number of molecules which have the quantities and between and is proportional to\mdash ; so that if be the number of molecules\mdash ; where is written for and the molecule is supposed to be so complex that we may , without sensible error , suppose the limits of and to be zero and infinity .
We may take as proportional to the temperature of the gas , since it is the same for each of two gases which are in contact with each other , and is ako proportional to the mean kinetic energy of the rings themselves .
Substituting the above value for , we see that the pressure equals and thus varies as The Ring Theory of Gases .
Thus Boyle and Gay-Lussac 's laws follow from the vortex atom theory .
At present the quantity is quite undetermined .
It could be determined by comparing the coefficients of viscosity and the conductivity for heat of the gas , since these depend on the mean values of diiferent powers of , and the ratio of such quantities evidently depends on .
In this paper I shall not consider the theory of the conduction of heat .
If it were the same on the vortex atom theory of gases as on the ordinary theory , then the distribution of velocities would follow Maxwell 's law , as the values of the ratio of the coefficient of viscosity to the tivity deduced from this law agree fairly well with experiment .
For this to be the case\mdash ; or and the number of molecules which have the quantities and between and and would be proportional to\mdash ;

