The President 's Account of the Earthquake at London , March 8 .
March 8 , 1749 .
AT very nearly half an Hour after 5 this Morning , being then in Bed , but perfectly awake , I felt a very strong Shake , or rather 3 or 4 successive Shakes of an Earthquake , as I immediately took them to be .
I judge the whole Phenomenon Read March 8 .
Phenomenon to have lasted about 3 or at most 4 Seconds of Time ; and the Shocks appeared to differ from what I had felt on the 8th of last Month , in this Particular , that I did not now perceive that lifting upwards , and sudden settling again , which I was then sensible of ; nor did I hear that distinct Noise , as of a great Weight falling , which most People were then surprised with : But what now most affected me was the Sensation of very quick Shakes , or of a Tremor , as it appeared in a horizontal Direction ; and I heard , during all the time , a sort of Crackling of the Wainscot , Window-Frames , and Floor , with such a Rattling in the Chimney , as I have sometimes heard upon a sudden and strong Gust of Wind .
I instantly jumped out of Bed , to see if there was any Damage done ; and going to my Chamber-Door , I met my Daughter running in a Fright from her Room , who said she was waked with such a Shock , that she thought her Room had been falling ; two MenServants also , who lay in the Garret , and whom I had called to , answered me whilst I was talking to my Daughter , that they were both wakened by the Shock , and that they felt , as they both expressed it , such a Motion , as they had sometimes known given to a Child in a Cradle .
Presently after I had got on my Clothes , I spoke to some of my Neighbours , who all gave me very nearly the same Account as this I have been just giving of what I had observed myself ; only some added , particularly a Gentleman who lives in an older House than mine , that he apprehended , from a crackling Noise over his Head , that a Chimney had been thrown down , and was then breaking thro ' the Tiles and Lathing of his House .
I sent a Servant out about 7 o'Clock , and he met a Countryman , who was bringing a Load of Hay from beyond Highgate , and who was on the other Side of the Town when the Shock happened ; he did not , he said , feel it , as he was drivingh s Waggon ; but that the People he saw in the Town of Highgate were all greatly surprised , saying they had had their Houses very much shocked , and that the Chairs in some were thrown about in their Rooms .
The Chamber I lie in is up two Pair of Stairs forwards , and my Bed stands North West and SouthEast .
I took particular Notice , that there was neither Cart nor Coach going by , but that every thing was entirely quiet at the Time .

