II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Cysticercus Ccllulosse , as found in the Pig .
" By GEORGE RAINEY , Esq. , Lecturer , and Demonstrator of Practical and Microscopical Anatomy at St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by ROBERT D. THOMSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1856 .
The present communication is an enlarged and revised version , illustrated with figures , of a paper by the author , bearing the same title , which was read on the 13th December 1855 , and was subsequently , by permission , withdrawn .
An abstract will be found in the 'Proceedings ' under the date referred to .
III .
A paper was in part read , entitled " On the Dioccious Character of the Rotifera .
" By PHILIP IIENRY GOSsE , Esq. Communicated by TOMAAs BELL , Esq. , F.R.S. , Pres. L.S. Received February 19 , 1856 .
the separate sexes of Asplanchna Brightwellii .
The author of this memoir soon afterwards discovered a second species of the same genus ( A. priodonta ) with a like dioecious character ; and more recently Dr. Leydig has added a third ( A. Sieboldii ) , which does not differ in this respect from its congeners .
Dr. Leydig plausibly conjectures that Enteroplea of Ehrenberg is the male sex of Hydatina , that Notommata granularis is the male of N. Brachionus , and that Diglena granularis of Weisse is the male of D. Catellina .
The author of the present memoir has ascertained from his own observations that the sexes are separate also in Brachionus Pala , B. rubens , B. amphiceros , B. angularis , B. Bakeri , B. Dorcas , B. Miilleri , Syncheta tremula , Polyarthra platyptera , Sacculus viridis , and Melicerta ringens .
The males of these species , which are here described in detail , differ so greatly from the females in form , size , and structure , that they could not have been supposed to belong to the same genera , or even families , if their parentage had not been distinctly determined .
One of the most remarkable characters of male Rotifera is the absolute and universal atrophy of the digestive system .
No mastax , jaws , oesophagus , stomach , or intestines occur in any example of any species .
Another peculiarity is the great disparity between the sexes .
In every observed case the male is inferior in size and in organization to the female .
The muscular system is well developed in the males of Hydatina , Asplanehna , and Brach .
Mitlleri .
The frontal cilia are in general greatly developed in this sex , the result of which is seen in the energy and rapidity of its locomotion .
In most instances the great occipital ganglion is distinct , with a red eye seated on it ; and the latter is almost always present , even where the ganglion cannot be defined .
The lateral convoluted threads appear in Hydatina , Asplanchna , and Brach .
dorcas ; and in Aspl .
Brightwellii they are accompanied by tremulous tags , and by a contractile bladder .
Irregular masses of opake substance are almost constantly present in male Rotifera .
This substance Dr. Leydig considers a urinary concretion .
In all cases the abdominal cavity is occupied by a capacious spermsac , from which spermatozoa are forced out by pressure .
The outlet of the sperm-sac is by a thick , protrusile , and retractile penis .
In those species which possess a foot , the intromittent organ is soldered to its dorsal side , and is often so greatly developed that the foot itself appears as an appendage .
The penis is protruded by eversion ; and is then seen to be a thick column with the extremity truncate and ciliated .
The sexual coitus has been witnessed by the author in several instances .
For a parallel to the curious facts thus established , the author considers we must look to the Crustacea .
The Hectocotylus of certain Mollusca is scarcely an analogous case ; nor are those Entozoa in which the males are organically united to the females .
In the Crustacea , however , many examples occur of a sexual difference which may be compared with that of the subjects of this memoir .
In the genera Bopyrus , Phryxus , and loie , the males are notably smaller than the females , very diverse in form , and in some respects inferior in structure .
In the Siphonostoma , the males are extremely small , and do not in the least resemble the females " ( Baird ) ; though those of different genera bear a strong resemblance inter se , even where the females are very dissimilar .
So low is their grade of organization , that Burmeister has attempted to prove the minute males to be embryonic forms .
Finally , in the Cirripedia , Mr. Darwin has proved the existence of males in the genera Ibla and Scalpellum , which are very minute as compared with their females , excessively abnormal in form , and in some respects in an embryonic condition , though unquestionably mature , as shown by their spermatozoa .
And , what is still more interesting , there is , in these male Cirripedia , " no vestige of a mouth , or masticatory organs , or stomach .
" The same observer describes the internal structure as " a pulpy mass with numerous oil-globules ; " and the sperm-vesicle as " a pear-shaped bag at the very bottom of the sack-formed animal containing either pulpy matter , or a great mass of spermatozoa , " terms which might have been employed in describing some of the male Brachioni .
In all these analogies , the author finds additional reasons for assigning to the Rotifera a zoological rank among the Articulata .

