195 The Influence of Selection and Assortative Mating on the Ancestral and Fraternal Correlations of a Mendelian .
By E. C. Snow , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Biometric Laboratory , University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. Karl Pearson , F.R.S. Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read March 28 , 1912 .
) The actual effects of selection and assortative mating on the variability and correlation of organs have long been known .
The general numerical resemblance between the correlations found for gametic characters on the Mendelian hypothesis for random sampling and mating and those computed from actual data is now also well established , though the fundamental difficulties in the way of reconciling the deductions tyom that hypothesis with the distributions and regressions actually obtained for , say , coat-colour in mice , have not been diminished .
It is of importance , therefore , to ascertain what conclusions can be reached as regards the numerical effects of selection and of assortative mating on the basis of the Mendelian mechanism , and to this end an analytical investigation was entered Upon on a more general and rigorous foundation than any which have previously been used to attempt to solve the problem .
Dealing first with the correlations for gametic characters .
In general terms , it was established that the effect of taking a selected sample instead of a random one from a population showing a zero coefficient of assortative mating would be to find the ancestral and fraternal correlations within that sample less than those of a random sample , so long as the variability was diminished by the selection .
If an ancestor be selected , the correlations between that ancestor and descendants diminish in geometrical progression .
On the whole , selection of parents appears to affect the correlations between them and their offspring to a greater extent than it affects the relationship between those offspring themselves .
For all ancestral cases the regressions appear to be more stable properties of a particular population than the corresponding correlations ; frequently the regression of offspring on ancestor is the same as for a random sample , though the correlation is changed .
The investigation also brought out that the value 0*5 in each case for the fraternal and parental correlations obtained when random samples of a general Mendelian population are dealt with does not depend upon the fact that the samples are random ones , but upon the fact that for such a population the frequency of the heterozygote is twice the geometric mean of the frequencies 196 Selection and Assortative Mating in Mendelian Population .
of the dominant and recedent homozygotes .
For , if any selected sample of the form pi2(AA ) + 2j0i\#163 ; i(A a ) + q- ?
( aa ) be taken from the general population p\AA ) + 2pq(Aa ) + q2(aa ) , the parental and fraternal correlations reached when the individuals of the selected sample mate at random within the sample always have the constant value 0*5 .
The investigation next considered the question of assortative mating within a random sample of the general population .
Such mating , if positive , increases the parental and sibling regressions as well as the correlations .
The ancestral regressions diminish in geometrical progression , the correlations not perfectly , but nearly so .
In certain cases the expressions found for the parental and sibling correlations were identical with those reached by the very general methods previously employed by Pearson , and which have no connection whatever with Mendelism , but this can hardly be more than a curious coincidence .
When we deal with assortative mating within a selected sample , we find the regression of offspring on parent depends upon both the assortative mating and the intensity of selection , and increases as those factors increase .
Selection and assortative mating affect the correlations in opposite directions , the decreasing tendency of the former appearing to have the predominating effect in practical cases .
The sibling correlation is not raised so much by assortative mating nor reduced so much by selection as is the parental one .
Fairly similar qualitative results were found throughout for somatic characters , though not so much weight can be given to them as to those for gametic characters .
Moreover , it is the latter which agree most closely with observation .
It is to the results for gametic characters , therefore , that we must look for theoretical verification for experimental conclusions which , at first sight , appear paradoxical , e.g. the closeness of the resemblance between cousins .

