Observations made at the Apartments of the Royal Society , with an Appendix .
" By James Glaisher , Esq. , F.Rt .
S. The principal object of this paper is the connexion of the results deduced in a former paper from the observations at the Royal Society 's Apartments , with the observations at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , in order to determine mean numerical values , and to establish the laws of periodic variation from this long series of observations ; the two series of observations are here reduced to one and the same series .
The observations at the Royal Society having been discontinued between the years 1781 and 1786 , it was necessary to supply this link in the series , more particularly as these years were distinguished by very severe weather , and their omission would have a sensible effect on the results .
The deficient observations have been supplied by a comparison of the observations which were made at Somerset House , with the observations during the corresponding years made by Mr. Barker at Lyndon in Rutlandshire , from 1771 to 1799 , corrections being thus obtained for reducing the Lyndon observations to those at Somerset House .
By a comparison of the temperature of the air at Somerset House and at the Royal Observatory for every month during the years 1833 to 1843 , corrections necessary to be applied for reducing the mean values at the one place to those at the other , are deduced .
Thus the results of the observations at Somierset House are reduced to those at the Royal Observatory , and a table is given showing the mean temperature at the latter place of each month in every year from 1771 to 1849 inclusive .
By taking the means of the several columns in this table , the mean temperature of each month is deduced from all the observations .
From these mean monIthly temperatures a table is constructed showing the excess of the mean monthly temperature at Greenwich for each year , above the temperature , of the month deduced from all the years .
Tables are next given showing the mean temperature in quarterly periods for the year , and for successive groups of years at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , from the year 1771 to 1849 ; and the excess of the quarterly and yearly mean temperatures in every year , and for groups of years , above the means from all the years .
The author remarks that the numbers in these tables do not at all confirm the idea that a hot summer is either preceded or followed by a cold winter , or vice versed ; but on the contrary it would appear that any hot or cold period has been mostly accompanied by weather of the same character , and instances are cited in support of this conclusion .
Tables are also given , based upon the readings of the self-registering thermometers , exhibiting the extreme readings at Somerset House and at the Royal Observatory .
Incidentally the author goes into an inquiry respecting the relative temperature of London and the country in its neighbourhood .
From the observations made by Mr. Squire at Epping from 1821 to 1848 , and also from those at Lyndon , he concludes that the general fact of a higher winter temperature and lower summer temperature at the Royal Society 's Apartments is satisfactorily proved , and that the same cause has been in operation at both seasons ; this cause he considers to be the vicinity of the river Thames to the place of observation .
With the view of showing the extent to which this cause operates , a table is given of the mean monthly temperature of the water of the Thames , and a comparison is made between the results of observations made on board the ' Dreadnought ' HIospital Ship , at the height of 32 feet above the water , with simultaneous observations at the Royal Observatory .
From this comparison it is concluded , that at all seasons of the year the temperature at the ' Dreadnought ' is above that at the Observatory during the night hours , and that it is below during the mid-day hours only : at times of ex. treme temperature the effects of the water upon the temperature of the air is very great .
The paper is accompanied by diagrams exhibiting to the eye , by means of coordinates , the numerical results given in the tables .

