Astronomical Observations relating to the Construction of the Heavens , arranged for the Purpose ogf a critical Exanzination , the Result of which appears to throw some new Light upon the Organization of the celestial Bodies .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 20 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 269 .
] Dr. Herschel , having repeatedly re-examined many of the nebulous appearances which he has formerly described , finds that these objects may be arranged in a certain order of regular succession , so as to be viewed in a new light ; and in consequence of these views , his opinions respecting the inferences to be drawn from the phenomena have undergone a gradual change , especially with regard to the possibility of resolving many of them into stars , as he had formerly supposed might be done by telescopes of higher power than he had yet employed .
His present arrangement begins with the appearances of diffused nebulosity .
Of these he has determined the positions and magnitudes of 52 in number , the aggregate extent of which amounts to 150 square degrees ; and since the depth of each may be supposed nearly equal to the length or breadth , the total amount of luminous matter contained in the small proportion of infinite space which we see , exclusive of that which is too dilute to be visible , exceeds all calculation .
Of these nebulous diffusions , the intensity of the light is not uniform ; for though in some parts their light is uniformly milky , in others it is more faint , and might , at first sight , be thought resolvable into stars .
The greater brightness in one part than in another may arise either from greater depth or from greater density , and is thought by Dr. Herschel rather to arise from the latter , which he ascribes to a mutual gravitation of its parts to each other .
Facts , says the author , are not wanting to prove that such a power has been exerted ; and it is his intention to point out a series of phenomena where the vestiges of such exertion may be distinctly seen .
Those nebulx , which from their present want of uniformity seem to have more than one centre of attraction , may , in fact , at this time consist of two nebulae , the limits of which unite only in appearance ; or they may be actually united , but undergoing a gradual separation .
In the same manner other nebulae , for which the author refers to his catalogues , are found to be treble , quadruple , sextuple , &amp;c. With regard to the forms of nebulae , some are narrow and very long , others of equal length are in a certain degree broader ; others again are of an irregular figure ; and from all these , nothing can be inferred as to their extent in the third dimension , which is not seen .
But when the visible surface is nearly elliptical , and still more if the circumference be nearly circular there , a spheroidical or spherical form may with some confidence be presumed ; and these , it is observed , are forms naturally resulting from a principle of attraction .
The central brightness of some nebulae point out the seat of principal attraction ; and though in many such a difference is scarcely perceptible , there are many others in which the brightness of the centre is considerably greater than that of their circumference , so as to present very much the appearance of many telescopic comets , of which the nucleus is not distinct ; and others also , in which a central nucleus is distinctly seen , surrounded by a bright and circular nebula .
These various degrees of condensation , seen in different nebulae , are supposed by the author successively to take place in the same nebula , and are thus connected into one view , to show the progress of condensation .
The condensation , says Dr. Herschel , may be considered as evidence of their materiality ; and he also infers opacity , which is another property of matter , from the circumstance of their not being so bright as he would expect from their observed condensation .
The appearance of certain very regular nebulae , with extensive branches , suggests to Dr. Herschel various queries respecting the gradual change and ultimate result of condensation .
Do not the branches connected with a nucleus resemble the zodiacal light connected with our sun ?
May not portions of branches collect into a planetary form and revolve around the central nucleus , having themselves a rotatory motion , in consequence of the inequality and irregular position of dif &amp; ferent branches ?
Among the nebulae that have been formerly observed by the author , he refers to seven , which he considers as having approached very near to final condensation ; and of these he observes , that we see only a superficial lustre , resembling that of planets , which are opake bodies , and not such as might be expected if the nebulous matter had no other quality than that of shining , and were perfectly transparent .
The author observes , that the spheroidal form which prevails among nebulae , is another circumstance of resemblance to planetary bodies , from which also their rotation on their axes may be inferred .
That nebulae do really undergo successive changes , the author deduces not only from a comparison of different nebulae with each other , but from a comparison of his own observations , made upon the nebula in Orion at this time , with those which he himself made thirtyseven years since .
The figure of it , at that time , he also then observed to differ from that given by Dr. Smith in his optics ; and he now remarks , that it differs from the delineation given by Huygens in his Systema Saturnium .
In the course of the gradual contraction of this nebula , Dr. Herschel has also observed certain stars which had appeared nebulous to become distinct by removal of a nebulous covering , and thence infers that this nebula is certainly nearer to us than stars of the seventh or eighth magnitude , and possibly not more distant than those of the third .
Notwithstanding , therefore , the extreme dissimilitude between the appearance of diffused nebulosity and that of a star , they seem to have a natural connexion by the several intermediate gradations that have been described .
A nebulosity may be conceived so dilute as to be invisible till partially condensed ; a nebulosity may become converted into a planetary nebula .
The planetary nebula with uniform light may , by gradual condensation of its centre , be converted into a stellar nebula with bright central nucleus , surrounded by a more dilute bur ; and this at last assumes the appearance of a complete star , by condensation of so large a portion of its nebulous matter , that the remainder is no longer visible by the best telescopes .

