]\gt ; [ 249 ] Iobilities of the Tons prodnced liontgen Rays in Gases and Vaponrs .
By .
M. , College , ambridge ; Barker of the } of Sydney .
by Prof. Si } J. J. THOMSON , F. Received December 19 , 1908 , \mdash ; Read January 21 , 1909 .
1 .
Introductory .
FOR various reasons the determination of the velocities in an electric field of the ions produced in gases by the action of Rontgen rays is of fundamental importance in electrical theory .
A knowledge of the ionic mobilities ( i.e. the velocities under unit electric intensity ) affords information with regard to the structure of the ion ; if , in addition , the diffusion coefficients of the ions in various gases are known , the charge associated with the ion can be compared with that carried by the monovalent ion in the electrolysis of solutions .
Experimental methods of determining the mobilities of the positive and negative ions were devised not long after the ionising action of the Rontgen rays was known .
RUTHERFORD* determined the values of the sum of the positive and negative mobilities in a series of gases .
ZELENY , by comparing the velocity acquired by the ions in an electric field with that of a gaseous current parallel to the field , succeeded in deducing the values of the difference of the ionic mobilities and also their ratio .
In later experiments employed a current of gas in a direction perpendicular to the electric field and deduced the absolute values of the mobilities in air , oxygen , carbon dioxide , and hydrogen .
S No determinations , howeyer , were made of the ionic mobilities in vapours .
The determination of the physical constants of vapours opened out a considerable field for 'Phil .
Mag vol. 44 , p. 422 ( 1897 ) .
' Phil. Mag vol. 46 , p. 120 ( 1898 ) .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 195 , p. 193 ( 1900 ) .
S For a concise account of the experiments on ionic mobilities vide J. J. THOMSON , " " onduction of Electricity through Gases 2nd edition .
VOL. CCIX . .
2 4.5.09 theoretical research and afforded rich material for the application of the kinetic theory of gases .
The measurement of the mobilities of the two kinds of ions formed by the action of Rontgen rays in a series of vapours seemed , therefore , to form a fitting and necessary continuation of the corresponding determinations in the case of gases ; with object in view the present research was undertaken .
2 .
Experimental Method .
The method employed throughout was that devised by LANGEVIN , measured the ionic mobilities in air over a range of pressures varying from to 143 cm .
of mercury .
The principle of the method is as follows:\mdash ; Suppose we have two parallel plates A and at a distance apart , and let there be a uniform electric field X in the region between the plates , the force on a positive charge being from to A. Let the gas comprised between them be ionised uniformly by a single flash of very short duration from a Rontgen-ray bulb .
After the lapse of a certain time from the passage of the Rontgen-ray discharge , let the field between A and be suddenly reversed in direction ; from this time until all the ions have been remoyed by the field A will receive only negative electricity .
Neglecting effects due to the recombination and diffusion of ions , the total quantity of electricity receiyed by the plate A from the time of the Rontgen-ray discharge until all the ions are removed is given by where quantity of electricity of one sign liberated between the plates by the flash of Rontgen rays , velocity of the positive ion under unit electric intensity , corresponding velocity for the negative ion .
By varying the time interval , a series of values of is obtained ; the relation between and as given by the above equation is representable by a straight line , but this equation has necessarily to be modified by the conditions:\mdash ; ( i ) Each of the quantities and is to be regarded as zero for negative values of .
This implies for ( ii ) Each of the quantities and cannot numerically be greater than This implies for values of greater than the of the two quantities and With these conditions the relation between and is expressed by a curve of the character given in fig. 1 .
'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys , 28 , p. 495 ( 1903 ) .
IONS PRODUCED BY RONTGEN RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
It is noticeable from the figure that this curve consists of portions of straight lines intersecting at points which have as abscissae ( for the case ) , and which correspond respectively , as far as time considerations are concerned , to the momentary Rontgen-ray discharge , the withdrawal of all the negative ions , and the receipt of all the positive ions by the plate A. It is evident that , if a curve with the above characteristic features could be obtained experimentally , we could deduce from the positions of the points the values of and and thus obtain the mobilities of the ions for the gas or vapour under consideration .
This procedure would not , however , be advisable in practice .
The curve in fig. 1 corresponds only ideal conditions ; as has been mentioned above , the ionisation must be uniform throughout the interval between the two plates , such uniformity being only approximately realised in practice ; moreover , LANGEVIN has shown that , as a result of the recombination and diffusion of the ions , the effects of which have been neglected in the theoretical treatment , the curve as realised experimentally does not consist of separate straight lines , but of separate curves which form nicks at their points of intersection , the positions of which , however , have not been displaced .
If the ionisation consist of a uniform distribution between the plates , together with a layer of intense secondary ionisation close to the plate , the theoretical curve expressing the relation between and can readily be obtained by adding the ordinates due to each , part of the ionisation .
This curve is shown by the thick lines in fig. 2 , the thin lines denoting the curye due to the uniform ionisation as before , and the dotted lines the curve due to the ionisation localised near the plate A. As a result of recombination and diffusion the nicks will be rounded off ; moreover , the part QR of the resultant curve is scarcely realisable in practice , especially if there be little diflerence in the values of the two mobilities .
In fig. 3 is given the type of curve actually obtained by experiment ; it was obtained under the conditions : In general , only two points of discontinuous curvature are noticeable , the first corresponding to the Rontgen ray discharge and the second to the withdrawal of all the ions of one sign , , the negative ions if be at a positive potential before reversal and the positive ions if be at a negative potential before reversal .
By obtaining experimentally curves for the two cases of positive before reversal and negative before reversal , we will thus be able to find the negative and positive mobilities respectively .
Taking the case represented in fig. 3 , suppose the plate A is co1mected electrically with a similar plate , whose position with respect to the Rontgen-ray bulb is so adjusted that it receives after each discharge a quantity of electricity represented graphically by the straight line ABC in the figure .
Thus , considering the quantity jointly received by the plates A and , the relation between and will be represented by the curve DOE , whose ordinates are obtained by adding those of the two curves ABC , ; in other words , as long as is negative there is , on the whole , no IONS PRODUCED By RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
charge added to the plates A and , but as soon as there is any appreciable interval between the ray discharge and a succeeding reversal of potential on the plate , a charge of electricity is obtained which can be detected by the ordinary electrical means , .
by connecting the two plates to an electrometel electroscope .
In this way the position of the nick at or of the corresponding point on time axis can be determined .
In a similar manner , in order to mine the position of the point , we would connect the plate A to a plate , adjusted in such a way as to continually receive a charge represented by the straight lin FGH in the figure .
Thus the two plates jointly would receive a charge KST , and the position of or could be readily determined by noting the time interval , on one side of which we obtained a charge on the measuring instrument and on the other side of which no charge was obtained .
This null method of obtaining the positions of the nicks in the different curves was employed in most of the experiments described in this paper .
In actual practice the charge given to the auxiliary plate was adjusted in such a way that on one side of the nick whose position was sought we obtained a very small constant charge ( instead of no charge as in the theory ) , while on the other side we would obtain charges of a sign opposite to this small charge .
By using this method the nicks were well defined and thus a high degree of accuracy was obtainable .
In addition , it can be readily seen that the null method is independent of the intensity of the flash of Rontgen rays , whereas , if the complete curve be drawn as in the figure , the flash has to be maintained constant in intensity throughout the observations .
It is worthy of mention that , under the conditions just described , the mobilities are really determined for those ions which are formed in the thin layer of gas or vapour in the vicinity of the plate A. S. Arrangement .
The diagram of connections and the disposition of apparatus is given in ; in the main it is the same as that used by M. LANGEVIN , but certain necessary modifications were introduced to suit the special conditions .
and are two iron weights which are supported by means of an electromagnet ; when the circuit through the magnet is broken , the weights fall simultaneously and break the platinum contacts at and respectively .
The breaking of the contact at , which is in the primary circuit of a Marconi induction coil , gives rise to an induced E.M.F. in the secondary , and causes a momentary discharge to pass in the Rontgen-ray bulb X ; the breaking of the contact at reyerses the potential of the lower plate of one of the chambers , as can be readily seen from the diagram , being a water resistance of the order of 1 megohm and at the time of breaking being at the same potential as the point can be fixed at any of a vertical scale , thus the potential of to be reversed at any convenient interval after the passage of the discharge .
This vertical scale was graduated and the position of with regard to could thus be read off at once ; but when greater accuracy was equired the position of was ascertained by means of a cathetometer .
is a capacity of about 7 microfarads inserted in parallel with the primary of the induction coil in order to ) event sparking at the contact .
When the spark was entirely eliminated it was found that , provided the current as measured by the ammeter Am was kept constant , the intensity of the Rontgen-ray flash was sensibly constant at each discharge .
AB and denote the ionisation chambers which are described below ; the upper electrodes A and could , by means of the key , be co1mected separately to the insulated pair of quadrants of an electrometer , or could be connected together either with or without connection with the electrometer .
The lower plate of the chamber is connected with the point of the key , and from the diagram it can be seen that , when and are joined , is permanently earthed , while , when and are oined , can be put permanently either at a positive or negative potential by means of the key .
The lower plate of the chamber AB is connected with the point of the key ; thus , when and are joined , is permanently earthed , while , when and are joined , is at the potential of the movable arm of a magnetic relay M. When this arm is in contact with the point is thus at zero potential , while , when the arm is in contact with is at the same potential as the point a potential which , as above described , is reversed in sign by breaking the contact at K. The object of this relay is described below under section 4 .
The potentials necessary to establish the electric fields in the ionisation chambers IONS PRODUCED BY NTGEN RAYS IN GAShS AND VAPOURS .
were obtained from a suitable number of small lead accumulators , the potential difference afforded by each being approximately volts .
The Rontgen-ray bulb was enclosed in a lead-covered box with apertures of dimensions sufficient to allow the rays to have access to the chambers .
For a more detailed account of the ntial features of the arrangement the reader is referred to LANGEVIN'S original memoir .
The .\mdash ; The two ionisation chambers represented by AB and in fig. 4 were exactly identical in structure and dimensions ; a longitudinal section of one of them is shown in fig. 5 .
The upper electrode A was a brass disc of diameter cm .
, and was surrounded by a brass guard-ring , the outer diameter of which was 9 cm .
A and were screwed on to an ebonite disc , and A was connected to the electrometer by means of a wire led out through an ebonite plug .
The guard-ring and the electrode A were separated from the lower electrode , which was of aluminium , by means of an ebonite ring perforated in several places to allow the gas or yapour to have free access to the space between the electrodes .
The distance between A and was exactly 1 cm .
was connecteil with the point of the key ( fig. 4 ) by means of a wire led out through an ebonite plug , and was kept tightly in position by means of the ebonite ring .
The bottom of the chamber consisted of an aluminium disc together with an outer covering of thick lead with a central aperture of diameter cm .
The Rontgen rays passed through this aperture in the lead and through the aluminium constituting both the bottom of the vessel and the electrode ; the gas or vapour between the electrodes was thus ionised , and in addition there was strong secondary ionisation produced in the layers of gas or vapour in the vicinity of the electrode A. The effect of the outer lead covering was to confine the ionisation to the central portion of the interval between the electrodes A and B. MR. E. M. WELLtSCH ON MOBILITiES OF and are tubes soldered on to the upper brass covering of the chamber in order to afford an entrance the gas or vapour , and also to of the vessel bein connected to gauge or pump .
In order to keep the vessel air-tight , a rubber band , with a mixture of beeswax and resin spread uniformly over its surfaces , was inserted between the outer brass and aluminium coverings which , after bein heated , were screwed tightly together .
Electrome , .\mdash ; The electrometer was of the Dolezalek pattern with a platinum suspension .
The needle was charged to a potential of 80 volts , which was found to be the voltage most suitable for the conditions of the experiment ; with this potential , which did not however correspond to the most sensitive condition , the electrometer afforded a deflection per volt of 420 mm. on a scale about 1 metre distant .
As a matter of facb , an exact determination of the sensitiveness of the electrometer was not essential in the present investigation inasmuch as it is only the sign of the charge that it is necessary to know in order to determine the points of discontinuous curvature referred to in section 2 .
The leads from the upper electrodes to the electrometer quadrants were all screened by brass tubing kept at zero potential .
4 .
Sources of Error.\mdash ; A. Theoretical Assumptions .
Duration of Rontgen-ry Discharge.\mdash ; It is assumed in the theory that the duration of the discharge proceeding from the Rontgen-ray bulb is small compared with the time an ion takes to describe the distance between the electrodes .
This duration has been to be of the order second ; the times measured in this experiment varied from about to second .
Reversal of Potential.\mdash ; After the contact has been broken , the potential of is reversed in sign ; this reversal necessarily occupies time inasmuch as has to pass through all intermediate potentials .
This time is less than the product , where denotes the resistance ( fig. 4 ) and the capacity of the leads and electrode .
This product in the present case was certainly not greater than second .
Influence of the Ionisation on the Field.\mdash ; LANGEVIN has shown that in the case of uniform ionisation , owing to the distortion of the field by the presence of free ions , the time taken by an ion to traverse any distance is increased in a ratio numerically inferior to , where denotes the total charge of the ions of one sign and the charge induced on the upper plate when the potential on the lower plate is withdrawn .
For this reason it is advantageous to use , wherever possible , high voltages , but if the voltages were made too high , the time taken by the ion to cross the distance between the electrodes might become unduly small and the working error proportionately large .
On this account it was difficult to obtain concordant results when * BRUNHES , 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 130 , p. 1007 , 1900 .
IONS PROI ) BY RONT RAYS GASES AND estimating the mobilities at pressures less than 1 cm .
of mercury , the workable voltages being necessarily small and the field thus being likely to be disturbed by the presence of free ions .
In general , however , voltages were chosen so as to render the influence of the ionisation on the field practically negligible .
B. Experimental Difficulties .
Hysteresis.\mdash ; When the magnet circuit is broken , both weights and should fall simultaneously ; if this occur , the point in fig. 3 should correspond to a position of on the movable scale , exactly on a leyel with the position of K. The position of corresponding to a zero time interval between the breaking of the two contacts could be accurately ascertained by the null method ; in general this position of occurred when at the same level as , but after the cells which worked the magnets had been in use for a period , usually of about two weeks , it was ascertained that the weights did not continue to fall simultaneously , an effect probably due to unequal hysteresis in the two magnet.cores .
In such a case fresh cells were usually inserted , but the effect gradually disappeared on reversing the current through the solenoids of the magnet .
Absorption of by the .\mdash ; If the lower electrode be at a fairly high potential , e.g. 80 volts , and then the potential be reversed , a charge will be present on the upper electrode A and its connections ; if now the lower electrode be brought back to its original potential , there should on the whole be no free charge on ; with some yapours , however , it was found that a charge remained on A often quite considerable in comparison with the charges due to the ionisation of the gas when exposed to a flash of Rontgen rays .
This residual charge was due to the absorption by the insulation of a part of the charge resulting from induction .
To reduce this absorption to a minimum , use was made of the magnetic relay ( fig. 4 ) .
As long as the weights remained suspended , the arm of the relay was in contact with the point , and so the lower electrode was at zero potential ; but when the magnet circuit was broken by the key , the arm came in contact with the point while the weights were still falling freely , and thus the electrode was brought to the required potential .
This potential was then reversed by the breaking of the contact , and finally was brought back to zero potential .
By thus restricting the period during which was charged to a very short duration , was found that the efFect due to the absorption by the insulation of the charge resulting from induction was negligible .
5 .
Procedure .
The two ionisation chambers were adjusted in such a way that the same flash from the Rontgen-ray bulb produced in each equal quantities of electricity of any one sign .
Preliminary tests were made to ensure that the insulation was good and that there was no appreciable absorption of the charge by the insulation .
VOL. CCIX.\mdash ; A. 2 A single reading was then taken in the following manner ( the null method being employed ) :\mdash ; ( i ) ( fig. 4 ) is adjusted to the required height on the scale .
( ii ) A and are connected together by means of the key and are earthed ; the quadrants also are at zero potential .
In the key and are connected , as also are and .
The contact is made .
( iii ) magnet circuit is completed at ; the weights and are placed in position ; the movable arm of the relay makes contact with , thus putting at zero potential .
( iv ) A and ( which throughout remain connected ) are insulated ; the quadrants , however , remain earthed .
( v ) The contact is made ; the magnet circuit is broken at ; the arm makes contact with , thus bringing to the required potential ; the contact is broken by , thus giving rise to a flash of Rontgen rays which ionises the gas in each chamber ; after the desired interval the contact is broken by , thus reversing the potential on the electrode B. ( vi ) By the time the weights have fallen , the ions will have had sufficient time to be all received at the electrodes ; the key connecting and ( in Z ) is then removed and placed so as to connect and , thus bringing again to zero potential .
( vii ) The quadrant pair is insulated ; the deflection due to the total charge received by A and is then observed and noted .
When the potential V is established on the electrode , the upper electrode system AA ' will be raised to a potential proportional to .
The value of corresponding to any definite potential V was determined experimentally in the following manner .
The upper electrode system was connected to the electrometer and the steady deflection was noted when was raised to the potential V. The quadrants were then earthed and the upper electrode system was charged to a known small potential by means of a potentiometer ; the system was then disconnected from the potentiometer and connected to the insulated uncharged quadrant pair , causing a steady deflection The potential was then varied until became equal to ; this value of corresponds to the required potential .
As a result of a series of observations with different values of , it was deduced that when the electrode raised from zero potential to a potential of V volts , the upper electrode system attained a potential of 0 .
vol The corresponding electric field , which was sensibly uniform in the region to which the ionisation was confined , was thus yolt per centimetre .
* The potential should also be given by , where denotes the steady deflection as above , denotes the steady deflection resulting from reconnecting the upper electrode system to the quadrants after they have been earthed and insulated , and denotes the sensitivenefis of the electrometer over the range of deflections under consideration .
A series of observations led to the same result as above .
IONS PRODUCED BY RONTGEN RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
The actual potentials of and during the experiment will , of course , depend , as above explained ( section 2 ) , on the particular nick in the curve whose position is sought ; these potentials are controlled by means of the key , and also by adjustable connections ( and ) at the battery .
In fig. 6 and fig. 7 are given typical curves which were obtained by the null method from observations made to determine the position of the nicks corresponding to the negative and positive velocities respectively in sulphur dioxide at a pressure of 269 mm. of mercury , the electric field being volts per centimetre .
6 .
Manipulation of Gases Vapours .
The tmospheric employed was dried by passing through phosphorus pentoxide .
The nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide were obtained from cylinders of compressed gas and were dried by passing through phosphorus pentoxide .
The was obtained from a cylinder of the compressed gas and was dried by passing through solid potassium hydroxide .
The carbon monoxide was liberated by the action of sulphuric acid on sodium formate and was dried by passing through phosphorus pentoxide .
The sulphur dioxide was liberated by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on sodium sulphite and was dried by passing through calcium chloride .
The vapours employed were , in most cases , dried according to the method followed by W. H. PERKIN* in his investigation of the " " Magnetic Rotary Polarisation Compounds in relation to their Chemical Constitution In all cases Kahlbaum 's preparations were used .
The ethyl alcohol methyl , ethyl , and ethyl were from samples kindly lent me by Mr. T. H. LABY , who had previously obtained them by fractionating and drying Kahlbaum 's preparations till each sample had a constant boiling-point .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc. ' vol. 45 , p. 421 , 1884 .
In addition to the ethyl ether obtained from Kahlbaum ether from another source was fractionally distilled three times , the last time with metallic sodium , and the portion boiling at C. ( barometer 769 mm. ) was collected and used .
The resulting mobilities were in concordance with those previously obtained .
The ionisation chambers were exhausted by means of a Topler mercury pump ; in the case of a gas it was admitted to the pump and the pressure could be diminished or increased with comparative ease ; in the case of a vapour the pump was first of all disconnected by means of a tap and the liquid allowed to evaporate into the apparatus till the requisite pressure was obtained .
Often a stream of vapour was passed through by means of a water pump , thus ensuring that any air which had remained in the apparatus was removed .
As is usually the case when working with vapours , the pressure at first decreases owing to partial condensation ; it , however , ultimately reaches a steady state .
It is possible , moreover , that some chemical action between the vapour and the metal of the ionisation chambers might interfere with the mobility values ; the best way of vestigating this point is to find the ionic mobilities in the vapour under conditions as varied as possible .
In certain instances the values obtained were not concordant ; these values are given in the table of results , but are not used in calculating the mean mobilities .
In general , however , the values obtained over widely different conditions were in good agreement .
The pressures were measured by means of a mercury gauge , one limb of which had been previously exhausted to a high vacuum by means of the Topler pump and then sealed ; in this manner the pressure readings were made independent of the barometric reading .
7 .
Results .
In estimating the ionic mobilities in a gas or vapour , it is important to secure as wide a variation as possible in the experimental conditions ; such a variation was obtained in the following ways : ( i ) The mobilities were estimated in different samples of the gas or vapour .
( ii ) The mobilities were often measured in each of the two ionisation chambers , the remaining one in each case serving as the standard .
( iii ) The electric field was made to vary over as wide a range as was practicable .
( iv ) The mobilities were measured over a wide range of pressures .
( v ) The experiments were often repeated after a lapse of several weeks , other gases or vapours having in the meantime been experimented upon .
Under conditions so varied it was only to be expected that variations should occur in the mobility values ; most of the variations were within 7 per cent. of the mean value .
The actual experimental conditions and the results obtained are exhibited in the following tables ; the values apply to a mean temperature of about C. , but it IONS PBODUCED By RONTGEN RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
will be noticed that , although the actual temperatures are given , no correction has been made , as such correction would almost certainly lie within the limits of error of the experiment .
The figures in the second column give the electric field X in volts per centimetre .
The third and fourth columns give the height in centimetres from the bottom of the falling weight to the movable contact , when the latter is in the positions corresponding respectively to the first and second nicks in the typical curve fig. 3 , which was obtained in the measurement of a negative mobility ) .
The fifth column contains the equivalent time interval expressed as the fraction of a second ; it was calculated by means of the ordinary formula for a body falling freely under : gravity .
The values in centimetres per second of the mobility are calculated from the equation , and , corresponding to the stated pressure , are giyen in the seyenth column .
In the eighth and ninth columns are given the mobilities corresponding to a potential gradient of 1 volt per centimetre and to a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury ; these values are based on the assumption that the ionic velocity is proportional to the field intensity and is inversely proportional to the pressure .
An asterisk affixed to a mobility value denotes that this value was not included in estimating the mean ; these values showed marked deviations from the law constant , the reasons for these deviations in some cases not being apparent , but in most cases being due to the pressures lying outside the range for which the law is applicable .
268 .
E. M. WELLISCH ON ' ] In the following table is given a summary of the results obtained for the ionic mobilities ; they correspond to an electric intensity of 1 volt per cm .
and a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury .
There is appended a table containing the values of the mobilities previously ascertained .
8 .
Discussion of Results .
A first deduction from the experimental results is that for a given electric intensity the velocity of an ion val.ies inversely as the pressure ; while , for a constant pressure , the velocity is directly ) to the electric intensity .
LANGEVIN found that in air over a range of pressures varying from cm .
to 143 .
of mercury the product of the pressure and the mobility of the positive ion was sensibly constant ; but , in the case of the negative ion , this product showed a marked increase in value when the pressure was reduced below 20 cm .
; this result was as denoting a simplification in the structure of the negative ion at relatively low pressures .
The values of the mobilities given for and in the tables show an increase in the product at low pressures both for the positive and negative ions .
As pointed out before , the experimental error tends to increase when the mobilities are measul.ed at low ; on this account no attempt was made to obtain measurelnents at pressures below 1 cm .
of nlercury .
In the case of yapours the pressures were in general chosen so that the yapour under consideration was well removed its condensation point ; under these circumstances no tendency of the product to increase with diminution of pressure was obseryed .
However , attempts were made to observe whether there was any deviation from the law constant as the yapour approached the saturated state ; great difficulty was incurred on account of the tendency of the vapour to condense on the insulation , nevertheless , in the case of ethyl chloride , the product showed a marked decrease in value both for the positive and negative ions as the pressures were increased beyond 200 mm. * It is known from experiments on saturated vapours that the density of a yapour increases more rapidly than would be expected from BOYLE'S law as vapour approaches saturation , in other words , there is a tendency for the vapour molecules to form aggregations ; this would result in a diminution of the yalue of the product , either in consequence of an increased complexity of the ionic structure , or of an increased collision frequency between the ion and the molecules of the vapour .
Another explanation of the alteration in value of is given below , under section 9 ; on this view the alteration depends not so much on the increase of density as on the marked increase in viscosity which has been shown to occur when a vapour approaches the saturated state .
PRZIBRAMS has recently measured the ionic mobilities in several vapours at a of 1 atmosphere , the temperatures being so as to just suffice to prevent condensation ; the vapours were ionised by the rays from polonium , and a * The vapour essure of ethyl chloride at C. is 691 mm. Cf .
MEYER , ' Kinetic Theory of Gases , ' 2nd , chapter 4 . .
MEYER , .
cit. , chapter 7 .
S 'Wien .
Berichte , ' , Bd .
117 , p. 665 , 1908 , IONS PRODUCED By RONTGEN RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOUIiS .
blast method was employed in the measurement of the mobilities .
The following results are given in PRZIBRAM'S paper:\mdash ; In the cases of ethyl alcohol , aceton , ethyl et } , and methyl acetate , it is noticeable that the mobilities are much smaller than when measured at pressures well remoyed from the saturated state and reduced to a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury in accordance with the law constant .
It is probable that in the case of every vapour , just as has been shown in the particular case of ethyl chloride , the values of would decrease if pressures were chosen so as to make the vapour approach saturation .
As an analogous illustration of this point , it is worthy of mention that PHILLIPS* has shown that the ionic mobilities when measured in air at atmospheric pressure vary as the absolute temperature over a wide range of temperatures ; but , in the ueighbom.hood of the temperature of boiling liquid air , the mobilities are distinctly smaller than would be the case if this law of variation were applicable .
A preliminary examination of the results which are given in Tables I. and II .
shows that there is no direct dependence of the ionic mobility on the molecular weight ; it might have been expected that the mobilities would decrease as the molecular weight increased , but that this is not always true is seen by comparing the cases of ammonia ( molecular weight 17 and mean ionic mobility cm .
) and oxygen ( molecular weight 32 and mean mobility cm .
) .
A better way of con sidering the results would be to divide the list into two groups , placing in one group those gases which have a relatively small critical temperature , and in the other those ( the so-called vapours ) which have a relatively high critical temperature ; it will then be seen that the high mobilities belong without exception to the gases of the first group ; the apparently small values of the ionic mobilities in certain cases , e.g. ammonia and aldehyde , can then be ived as bein due to large cohesive forces between their molecules evinced by their relatively high critical temperatures .
An attempt to deduce the mobility values from purely theoretical considerations is given later under section 9 .
It is noticeable also from an inspection of the tables that , especially in the case of 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol , 78 , p. 167 , 1906 .
vapours , there is little difference in value between the positive and negative mobilities .
The reatest differences are found for the elementary gases : , oxygen , hydrogen , and helium .
There are several instances , including most of the ethyl compounds , in which the positive ion has a greater mobility than the negative ; hitherto , only one gas , , acetylen known in which this was the case .
9 .
Jheoretical The of Jfobility of the Ions formed in Gaseous Medin.\mdash ; In the following treatment , which is based on the kinetic theory of gases , an attempt is made to obtain a theoretical expression for the velocity with which a charged body of dimensions comparable with those of a molecule would move in the gas under the action of an electric field of given intensity .
It is necessary at the outset to fix our ideas of a molecule and an ion ; for this purpose the following conceptions are introduced:\mdash ; A is regarded as a nucleus surrounded by a sphere of force of radius The spheres of force are supposed mutually impenetrable .
An ion is regarded as involving two distinct elements:\mdash ; ( i ) A mass ( independent of the charge ) .
Considering this element alone , let us represent the ion as a nucleus surrounded by a sphere of force of radius ( ii ) A charge ( electrostatic units ) .
During motion of the ion through the gas the effect of this charge is equivalent ( as will be shown ) to an increase in the volume of the force sphere ( i ) of the ion , the mass remaining unaltered .
A collision occurs between two molecules when the distance between their centres is equal to the sum of the radii of their force spheres .
LANGEVIN has shown that the velocity of an ion under unit electrostatic intensity is given by where denotes the mass of the ion , its mean free path through the gas , and V its mean velocity of thermal agitation .
As the ion moves through the gas the charge associated with it attracts the neutral molecules ; there results an increase.in the mean collision frequency of the ion and consequently a diminution in its mean free path .
Expression for the Mean Free of the Ion.\mdash ; Consider the motion of an ion and a molecule regarded in the light of two interacting free particles .
Let denote the potential due to the polarisation of the molecule by the charge on the ion , that the * ZELENY , ' Phil. Mag vol. 46 , p. 132 , 1898 .
'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys , 28 , p. 335 , 1903 .
The polarisation of the molecule by the electric field is regarded as negligible in comparison with that due to the ionic charge .
IONS PRODUCED BY RONTGEN RAYS IN GASOS AND yAPOURS .
force , taken as wholly radial , between the ion and the molecule is given by .
at a distance .
Let us reduce the molecule to rest and consider the relative motion as the ion approaches it so that the velocity at infinity was U. The intel.acting forces must now be considered as being derived from a potential denoting the mass of the molecule .
The shortest distance to which the ion and the molecule approach is given by the equations where denotes the velocity of the ion in this position and is the length of the perpendicular from the molecule to the rectilineal path of the ion .
We deduce A collision will take place if where , the sum of the radii of the force spheres of the ion and molecule , and denotes the value of at collision .
If , i. e. , if the polarisation of the molecule due to the ionic charge is negligible , the condition for a collision reduces to , as is otherwise obvious .
The connection between the velocity and the mean thermal ionic velocity V can be deduced by the application of MAXWELL'S law of distribution of velocities .
We obtain Hence ; thus is the mean kinetic energy of the molecular motion .
The effect of the polarisation due to the ionic charge is , therefore , as far as collisions are concerned , to replace by Now the mean free path of an uncharged body of the same mass and dimensions as the ion is given by , where denotes the number of molecules per cubic centimetre .
Hence the actual mean free path of the ion is , where VOL. CCIX .
\mdash ; A. 2 Expression for the due to the Polarisation of the Molecule by the Ionic .\mdash ; If the molecules of a gas are polarised by an electric field of intensity X , K-l the electric moment per cubic centimetre is , where denotes the dielectric constant of the gas .
The electric moment of a molecule is therefore X. The mechanical force on the molecule is , which is equal to .
The potential is therefore given by when the molecule is polarised by the field due to the ionic charge .
This expression for assumes that the polarising field is uniform throughout the volume of the molecule .
LANGEVIN ( loc. cit. , p. 317 ) has obtained the general expression for in the case of a spherical molecule and finds it to be given by a series of which the above is the most important term .
Expression for thoe Mobility of the Ion.\mdash ; Let denote the coefficient of viscosity of the gas , its density , the pressure in dynes per square centimetre , and the molecular mean free path .
Let denote the values of respectively corresponding to a temperature of C. and a pressure of 760 mm. of mercury .
The charge carried by the ion is taken as equal to that ( E ) on the monovalent ion in the electrolysis of solutions .
This equality was established from measurements of the mobility and rate of diffusion of gaseous ions .
* The exact value of the ionic charge is not required in the present treatment , inasmuch as only enters in the expression , which has been shown from experiments in electrolysis to have the value being measured in electrostatic units .
The product is denoted by A. The gas is regarded throughout as being at a temperature of C. We have the following equations:\mdash ; , where K-l ' ( equipartitiom of energy ) , *Vide J. J. THOMSON , 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 2nd edition , Art .
39 .
The electro-chemical equivalent of hydrogen was taken .
00001035 gram/ coulomb .
IONS ODUCED BY IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
We deduce the expression for the mobility in the form : When the mass and dimensions of the ion are the same as those of a molecule , we have , and the expression for the mobility becomes This expression can be transformed into Consider the expression which has been found for the velocity of an ion , regarded as a molecule carrying a charge equal to that associated with the monovalent ion in electrolysis , moving under unit electric intensity in a gaseous medium at a pressure dynes per square centimetre and a temperature of C. For a given medium , and are constant ; whence varies inversely as provided is constant .
Now , by MAXWELL'S law , coefficient of viscosity of a gas is independent of its density ; consequently oyer the range of pressures for which this law holds good we should expect the ionic mobility to vary inversely as the pressure , a conclusion which has been verified experimentally .
The expression involves only known physical constants of the gas and is therefore directly comparable with the results of experimental observation .
The results obtained by substituting the observed experimental values of the quantities involved are given in Table III .
The values of the viscosity coefficients and of the dielectric constants have been taken from LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S Tables ( 3rd edition ) ; the constant was taken as 1,013,610 ( dynes per square centimetre ) .
sixth column in the table affords an indication of the effect on the mobility of the electric polarisation of the molecules due to the ionic charge ; it will be seen that the effect is quite considerable .
Column seven gives the values of the mobilities under a potential gradient of 1 volt per centimetre , which would.be possessed by a molecule carrying a charge if there were no retarding effect due to this polarisation .
The columns give the values of the mobilities as deduced from the expression ( a ) together with the observed experimental values of the positive and negative ionic mobilities ; these values correspond to a real or hypothetical pressure of 760 mm. of mercury .
Unfortunately the values of have been determined experimentally for only a very limited number of gases and yapours ; in consequence , several vapours whose mobilities have been ascertained do not appear in the table .
, ' Dynamical Theory of Gases , ' p. 2 THE OF THE Considering that we are comparing the observed values of the mobility with absolute values calculated from various physical constants of the substances , the agreement is in several cases quite satisfactory ; however , in the case of ammonia and the vapours there is a marked divergence between the calculated and observed values , the former being invariably smaller .
The values of the dielectric constants for the vapours appear to be inordinately large , and , in this connection , it ; interesting to note that it is also in the case of vapours that there is a marked departure from MAXWELL'S law , , where is the refractive index .
The following table will serve as an illustration :\mdash ; IONS PRODUCED By IN ASES ) VAPOURS .
In the case of MAXWELL'S law the reason for the departures is probably the existence in the molecule of free periods with durations long compared with that of the incident wave period .
It is sible that , in the case under consideration , owing to free periods of long duration in the molecules of the vapours , these have not time to be completely polarised by the adjacent ionic charge during a collision .
It is worthy of mention that the large values of which have been experimentally obtained for ammonia and vapours have been ascribed by some authorities as being partially due to traces of conductivity which they possess .
Without dwelling further on the cause of these departures from the mobility law , it appears that , on the whole , the experimental values of the mobilities of the ions can be explained approximately on the supposition that the ion consists of a single molecule of the gas with which is associated a charge equal to that carried by the monovalent ion in electrolysis .
It has been shown from considerations based on the kinetic theory of gases that , irrespective of any theory as to the structure of the ion , the ascertained mobility values lead of necessity to the conclusion that the volume of the ion is in all cases greater than that of the corresponding gaseous molecule .
The question arises : what is the nature of this volume ?
On the one hand , if we neglect the influence of the charge on the mean free path of the ion , we are led to the conception of the ion as a cluster of molecules held together by forces arising from the polarisation due to the electric charge .
On the other hand , the effect of the charge on the collision frequency has been shown to be equivalent to an increase in the molecular sphere of force such that the resultant effective volume is sufficient to explain approximately the observed mobilities .
On this view the effect of the charge is to cause the ion itself and the neighbouring molecules to deviate from their rectilineal free paths ; SUTHERLAND , assuming such deviations to occur the case of gaseous molecules by reason of attractive forces between them , was able to explain accurately the observed variation of the viscosity of gases with temperature .
LANGEVINS has obtained an expression for the ionic mobility by using the dynamical method employed by MAXWELL in the kinetic theory of gases ; he concluded that the experimental values of the mobilities lead to the necessity of regarding the ion as a cluster of molecules .
The question as to the nature of the volume of the ion as determined the experimental mobility values could be decided if the ratios for the different gaseous ions were known .
In this connection it is worthy of mention that Prof. Sir J. J. THOMSON has recently measured this ratio for the positive ions formed by cathode particles in oxygen at low pressures and came to the conclusion that the ion consisted of a single charged oxygen molecule .
DRUDE , ' Theory of Optics , ' Lng .
trans .
, p. 389 .
Vide BADEKER , ' Zeits .
Phys. Chem Bd .
36 , p. 321 , 1901 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 36 , p. 507 , 1893 .
S 'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys vol. 5 , p. 284 , 1906 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 16 , p. 680 , 1908 .
Isf-R .
{ .
M. -LLISCH ON THE MOBILITIES OF THE Mention has already been made ( vide section 8 ) of the increase in value of the product at low pressures in the case of air , nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide , and of the diminution in the case of vapours , e.g. ethyl chloride , when the pressures approach the vapour pressure at the temperature under consideration .
Such deviations from the law constant could be ascribed to variations in the size of the cluster constituting the ion ; however , they follow readily from the expression of the mobility if we take into account the deviation from the law of MAXWELL which states that the coefficient of viscosity of a gas or vapour is independent of its density .
In the case of gases it is known that diminishes as the pressure is reduced beyond a certain value ; * such a diminution would , according to the theory here given , produce an increase in the value of .
In the case of vapours it has been established that increases rapidly as the saturated state is approached ; in fact , as a result of WARBURG and VON BABO'S experiments on the viscosity of at high pressures ; MEYER came to the conclusion that the experimental values aboye certain pressures could be explained only by supposing carbon dioxide to behave as a liquid , the density of which is practically independent of pressure ; an increase in the value of would , according to the expression , diminish the product , a result in accordance with experimental observations .
10 .
1 .
The velocities of the positive and negative ions produced by Rontgen rays in 4 gases and 15 vapours have been measured at normal temperatures over a wide range of pressures and under different electric intensities .
LANGEVIN'S null method was employed throughout .
2 .
For a constant pressure the velocity of the ion was found to vary as the electric intensity .
3 .
It was found that , in general , the mobility ( k ) of the ion varied inversely as the pressure ( p ) .
In the case of nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide there was a slight increase in value of ] product both for the positive and negative ions as the pressure was reduced below about 7 cm .
of mercury .
In the case of ethyl chloride there was a marked decrease in the value of as the vapour approached the saturated state ; there is reason to believe that such a diminution would appear in the case of all the vapours in the neighbourhood of the saturated state .
4 .
In the case of vapours there was , in general , little difference in the values of the positive and negative mobilities .
The mobility of the positive ion was found greater than that of the negative for aldehyde , ethyl alcohol , aceton , sulphur dioxide , ethyl chloride , pentane , ethyl acetate , methyl bromide , and ethyl iodide .
5 .
There appeared to be no direct relation between mobilities and molecular JEANS , loc. cit. , p. 253 . .
cit. , Art .
90 .
IONS PRODUCED By RONTGEN RAYS IN GASES AND VAPOURS .
weights ; the smaller mobilities invariably belonged to gases possessing high critical temperatures ( the vapours ) ; the larger mobilities to gases with low critical temperatures .
6 .
From the kinetic theory of gases an expression has been deduced for the mobility of an ion moving through a gaseous medium under the influence of an electric field .
This expression takes into account the effect of the charge cal.ried by the ion on its mean free path and involves only known ) hysical constants of the gas .
7 .
As a result of the theoretical considerations it ) ears that the nental values of the mobilities in the different gases at various pressures , as well as certain observed deviations from the law connecting the llobility and gaseous , can be explained approximately on the supposition that the ion consists of a single molecule with which is associated a charge equal to that carried by the monovalent ion in electrolysis .
I take this opportunity of expressin my indebtedness to Mr. H. C. WILSON for setting up part of the appal.atus ; in conclusion , my thanks are due to Prof THOMSON for the generous interest he has manifested in the research and to Prof LARMOR for helpful adyice .

