]\gt ; of Ri.flc .
A List of the pl'esents received the table , and ] ordered for them .
The following pers were :\mdash ; I. " " On the ectrio Response of Inorg nces .
Notice By Professor J. C. .
Communicated by Sir .
FOSTER , Sec. R.S. II .
" " On Skin Currents .
Part I.\mdash ; The Frog 's Skin By Dr. A. D. , F.R.S. III .
" " Vibrations of rels By A. -IALLOCK .
Communicated by LORD , F.R.S. IV .
The Ieasurement of -Iagnetic Hysteresis By G. F. C. and T. G. by Professor J. J. THolrso F.R.S. .
" " A Conjugating ' " " By B. T. P. BARKER .
Communicated by Professor } VI .
" " Thermal Adjnstment Respiratory xchange in Monotremes and Inrsupials :aStndy in the Development of Homo-thermism.\ldquo ; By Professor C. J. cated by E. H. STARLING , F.R.S. VII .
" " On the astic Lquilibrium of Cylinders under certain Practical Systems of Load By L. N. G. FILON .
Commuicated by Professor , F.R.S. VIlI .
" " The Ieasurement of Velocities in Aqueons Solution , and the of Complex Ions By B. D. STEEL .
Comby Professor " " tiorlS of Rifle By A. by PLAYLLIGH , .
Received ilfay June 6 , 1901 .
It that shot fired from a riflc does not in gen eral from the muzzle in the lpied [ ) the of the the first moment of ernitio of the c esti otcs f to compare rcs in .
A. Ialloc k The late , I , the first to poiot out the of this by experiment that it was due to the position hich the of the stock held as ; and , fnrther , if the direction of the shot passed the rent direction of when the rifle held in the position , the imtial ) high if the rifle psi(e , and to the light or left if the plane of the stock tIld the ) the left or right of the arrel .
Hc the direction shot lay cone , the axis of the at the instant before the ignition powder , and containing arrel.and the ccntl.e of of the ifle , and he attrll ) uted the ttlon of the shot to the ] ) conple cting on the barrel , dne to the direcof the force the recoil not the centre of of the The object of this is to exnmine this prol ) of " " flip\ldquo ; or " " jnmp it is , from point of vicw , .
and to sholv expected from given iations either the length of the barrel , the nature of its hment to the stock , or the nature of the explosive employed .
The investigation is not tter of enriosity , an ' important ring 0 the of iilc shooting , and ) thsonle lncthod is intl.oduced , of avoiding " " ) of regnting its tion the of explosive force , I think no ou ined in modern is ( speaking , good model.n rifle shoot devlation of consideral ) less from the intended .
]yhen the results in the of considered , it secms that such it for the nifol .
of the mmmition thonld ) C0Ittm .
\ldquo ; time of it itudc .
) ctcllUlllC the \ldquo ; ' , of of ( nlllst ) ] system llC[t el of 1 il tions of the to , in coml ) the ill sntisfy theso .
The $nl)slmotion theIt 1 determined ) ] the slll of the frec ) the ) conplc to act , the stll of the ) tions o If cunld ) )lted bniform l od , the $oltio once ) in symbols , since the of the verse ) ttions of is kn .
When we coutcl .
, to stcn 1 like with t of stic 1 of ' ' alent \ldquo ; the pea iods of the ) of altered , and cconrse nnlst to ) the the of the As the idd ) ) an alent rod , it ) looked ) frcc ) ends at the moment of the motion tu ifle is so at the time the shot leaves the mnzzle , co straint hands shouldes impose it is coll pared to the tion f ces into tho plosion .
This ) , so , the slon-est ) of which the system is that nodes .
The next in order of ill th ode so on , hhonv in , 3 .
FIG. [ .
o. 3.\mdash ; AIodc 111 .
Mr. A. Mallock .
The ynre by the end of the will be nearly exactly the same in each mode as the assnmed in the corresponding mode by an umiform rod whose length is such as to make the distance of the node from its free end equal to the distance from the node to the muzzle of the rifle .
The couple which acts on the barrel the explosion is measured by the rate at which the shot is accelerated , the distance of the axls of the barrel from the ccntre of gravity of the rifle .
The effect of given couple in a particular mode of vibration in the barrel depends on its point of application with reference to the of the system as well as on its magn itude . .
PR CHTKD is the which CD is bent by acting at P. CLTMD is that of the deformation belongs 10 the mode of vibration which has nodes at and D. If in fig. 4 , and arc two djaocnt nodes to some mode of vibration , it is evident that a couple applied between and any displacement of the system n1 this mode .
If is the between the ilodesCD and a cotlple 1 ) point from , there will ) ( 1 ) A force at with an force at ( 2 ) An force at force P. On the whole , therefore , there is force , or ppose / to the ccnlont which the force lvotlld if the ) .
It is hlown force , tho will ] , that is of tcly , the equation to the curve ) etween the nodes and for the mode of vibration which has these nodes may be taken as a simple rmonic fmction of : } , or hence the displacement at due to acting the displacement duc to at , ars each equaI to CF ( 1 ) .
In a rifie the point of pplication of the cotlple is settled the nature of the connection the stock and the it is matter of great difficulty to make certain how the strains distlibuted .
The actual maximum pressnre in the which is spoken of as " " chamber essure \ldquo ; is for ions sariotlS explosives considerable accuracy ; ) the of presstlre in terms of the travel of the shot along the barrel is much more difficuIt to tain . .
In this , therefore , I shall consider several types of stlch curves order to show effects ttre to ) looked for as the pressure curve its character .
The condition fulfilled in each of the pressure es eonsidered is that each must give the same elocity to the shot acting 011 it the length of the ) and in the llumetical the velocity and weight of the projectile taken second and 215 cve l of of feet , these being nearly the velocity , }eight , and of ) arrel used iu the nficld rifle .
The simplcst case of ( the thest from truth ) of a nniform pressure acting on the ] of the shot the length of the ) arrel .
Here we , if ) is the { the mnzzlc } the time the shot in the the length of the arrel , , ( 3 ) , . . .
( 4 ) , . . . .
I. .
1XVII I. 3,32 .
A. Mallock .
Putting we have f.s.s. , sccs .
An acceleration of 860,000 is ) , so that a miform force of 27,000 times its own weight , or give tho 215-grai shot its observed velocity in the actual length of the With a uniform force , the presstlre curve in terms of space is the same , of course , as if expressed in terms of time ; but for any other case we must , for the purpose of this paper , express the pressure cnrve ( which experiment would ve in terms of the disbance velled b the shot in the rrel ) in terms of time .
The pressure time ) eing we have nlso . . ? . .
( 6 ) ; and - ( 7 ) .
If we take the case of the pressnre uniformly with the travcl of shot , it is casy to show by ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( although the analogy with the force acting 011 pendulum or spring once suggests it ) , that the velocity and position of the s ( 9 ) , . . .
( 10 ) , ( ll ) .
With the before-mentio/ led for ) f.s.s. secolld .
One more case ) wny of exttmplc will suffice .
Lct the decrease uniformly with the tilnc so . . . .
12 From this get ( 13 ) , . .
Vibrations of Ri.l , , and is .
( 15 ) .
om ( 13 ) ( 14 ) , using the f.s.s. The strated the ious cessnre , velocity , and tinle elapsc since the begiuning of the the pnssage of the shot the Diagrams 8 , ( sho the essnrc in ternls of time , tIld it is these which to be ) resented I harmonic se1ies .
In order to void haviog telm at the ming of the solles , the is equal to 2 Then ) the rules for finding the of .
scries , the suecession of ' ' battlements\ldquo ; which form the essure c in case 1 ( niform acceleration ) , find ( 16 ) .
I case 2 , where the cssurc cnrve is a sucoessiov ] of of slmple onic C , the general of the term ' the serics / ( 17 ) .
The sclics for ) , is .
coefficients in sel.ics soon ecome scnsibly ) c.orresponding higher of In the just considcred , except the first , it is pressure the lzzle is of is ] cxlstel of } ) rc of the form of ( 16 ) of gnit .
The effoct of to the ) } of the f the tc mnst no ) the which beries ) } ) ] ] -{ 2 Mr. A. Mallock .
of Bifle Barrels .
pposing t the rmonic couple it continued to .
If . . .
natural pel.iods of the rious modes which the rifle caIl vibrate , the distlltcc of the ce1ltre of vity f Ir .
A. llock .
the of the barrel , the foroed oscillation which the term in the serics will evoke in the mode of the rifle will be , when expressed its the angle through which particular part of the system ) ; the oscillation , is ( 19 ) .
In this expression is the angle at the place of observation which the nnit couple would cause if acting to produce a displacement of the system in the mode ( the values of can bc approximately statical on bending ) .
is the numerical coefficient of the nth term of the harmonic scries , .
oresent the initial conditions , which that the moment before the explosion the barrel is at rest and u1lstralned , it snffices to quppose the co-existence of free oscillations of the system , with phases mplitudes such as to make the velocity and displacement when t. If and are the amplitndes of the forced and frec rationS respectively , we ve . . .
( 21 ) , ( 22 ) , l ) ( 33 ) , hencc the frec )ration , which at leaves the system at rest , so far as the oscillation excited ) the term in mode is conerned , times the of the forced It is collverlielt in the complctc cssio for displace]ncnt to efel to the periods of the system , onstant , 1ather to the periods tined in the pressnre cve .
, snbstitut ng for its have the cemeot of the ) th ?
the explosio ] ( i.c. , fo [ .
the sum of the forced and time dnc to the modc lltcr co xtli even hcst component taken ction will ltof shows the cpresented by the tion ( to ( and to this expression the form of .
0vhich , aluated in the , gives I will pply the ) results to mine the form of the LeeEnfield rifle at the moment the shot leaves the 1arrel , assnming that the developed the explosion is that shown in fig. 10 , taking into co1lsideratio1l the first three terms of the harmonic series for that cve and the first three modes of vibration of the rifle .
For this riiie it was by experimentthat a couple of 1 foot-ll ) .
the nodes cansed at the muzzle the deflections : \mdash ; Iode I Iode II Iode III In ised ' Text-book for Iilitary Small ' the pressulc in the chaml ) .
of the nfield is given as 15 tons per square-inch .
The of the ) of the shot is square-inch , so that the initial on the shot to1ls or ) .
Siuce the weight of the shot is the force lcting 0 it is 80,000 times its 0W11 eight .
this by : the atio which the shot in the absence of in the cl ) , feet per seeo11d per second .
I ( 14 ) the to be feet , so to prcss the the Hing iction scems the cnrvo of : ; sents } some deglee of tiou the }}{ tion which the shot periences .
* Il ould occupv too ) pacc to cscribc detail .
They by loads snitabl ) ] ) on rille , and cflectiollS c nsed by by mcans .
The delieotious so found 1$ ero reduced to beoll action of the coupleR becll c roxim.tness of frcc end of , the cleflcctiolt at the ) as kell t cqnal to the the nearest node .
Hellc.e the tions less thautltC trus $38 Mr. A. Mallock .
The centre of gravity of the rifle is just an inch below the axis of the barrel , and , taking the accelerative pressure on the shot as , the bending conple at the first instant is 187 .-lbs .
Also ' Thus .-lbs .
, .-lbs .
, ft.-lbs .
, Table I. These are the angular displacements which the muzzle would lmdergo if in each case it experienced the full statical effect of couple cor esponding to the first , second , and third term of the series representing the explosion curve acting so as to deform the system the first , second , or third mode .
Owing , however , to the position of the point of application of the couples with reference to the nodes of the various modes ( see I , and figs. 2 and 3 ) , it ppears that for the first mode the couple will cause of its full effect , as for this mode the node coincides nearly with the point of applicatio1l of the couple .
The nodes N2 ' and of the second mode fall at snch a distance from as to reduce the effect of the couples to about of the above value .
And the reduction is abont for displacements in the third mode .
The following is an ation to the values of\mdash ; Table II . .
1 .
2 .
3 .
' To determine the periods mely the lral periods of the riflc in the first , second , and third modes , experiments were made by tapping the barrel so as to excite the modes in question , and deterthe IIotes emitted } ) with forks .
The of Rijlc positions of the nodes were found by noting the position of the oi of snpport which did not damp the vibrations in each mode eepolnts The results were as follows:\mdash ; eac mo examined .
III .
Mode IodeDi a lencv .
In case 3 , again , the value fonnd for was second , he1lcG for the assnmed second .
We can now onstruct a table of the value of For lode J , , Iode II . .
, , Iode III .
If the ] ) Di vcs lues on it , , in ordet to the tion e the mode by the of the harnl01lc ; ;etles ) of the the shot it , the of for the jtltd multiply this ) en in I , the , to on it to of ( 1 .
Using , however , the of givcll j these it is .
A. Mallock .
do up .
\mdash ; up .
down .
up .
341 Hence , adding these ] find for the total upward deflection of , a downward deflection of , or finally , a resultant of the ngle which the lnstanteous axis makes in an npward direction lvith the mstr axis of the ) , at the moment of the shot the The conrse of the shot differs from instantaneotls axis of the barrel amonnt depending the ratio of the transverse linear velocity are of the muzzIe ( dne to the ) ttion ) to the muzzle velocity of the shot .
ve The sverse velociby of the muzzl muzz consequent on the term tlon i mode , can ) obtained by diflerelttiating with respeot to , and multiplying by ( the distance of the nearest node of the rnth mode from the muzzle ) .
We fi the ratio ( 25 ) Computing from this a table of corrections .
1 Table the ltel ations of the of the lItglos i corresponding to Table the linear ) of the ) ve 1 .
2 .
3 .
on the whole of found from Table , so the Hight of shot lies the on dded to the ection of the unstralled The iment for the is , I clieve , llcarly a this nount , but the of pos tons for the nodes 11 the 1leighl)ourhood of the ) reech , und of ternls well the tion to could be expected .
is introduced to show th on the diff I of sure to ) } ilry g ) with ( 1 , , , , , .
The tionS of caused ) the of or .
A'ol each individ of coursc is const in ( 24 ) and ) ) , $llld Mr. A. Mallock .
it does only on the elasticity and mass of the weapon , but and depend on the rapidity and rate of the Snppose that in place of assumed explosive a slower burning explosive were nsed , with a charge sufficient to give the same muzzle velocity .
This would cause an increase in and ; that is , would be diminished , and , owing to ) greater terminal pressure et se the values of for odd ) increased in relative importance compared with those for even .
The result in the case of a small variation of this kind in the nfield would be an increased upward A lower muzzle velocity would pond to an increase of wonld give an incre npward jnmp in this xifle , and at some articnlar range it should be found that the variation of jump and variation of initial velocity compensate one ttnother , and that for moderate variations of charge the ighting at this range does not equire alteration .
The natural periods of the xifle may be ed cither by adding nlass , shortening the the first case will remain altered , ill increase ; thus the tendency of a small mass added near the muzzle will be to the rifle shoot low .
If the is shortened both are diminished , but the tion in ( which depends on the square of length of the eIlt rod ) is much more important than the alteration in hence a small shortening of the barrel may be expected to canse tion in corresponding increase in 1lpwa jump .
The most important factors in these changes ( as regards the Leenfield ) and ] , that is the effect of the first term of the harmonic expansion of the explosio1l curve in exciting the 2nd :$rd modc ) ration of the rifle .
If could ) ) lutely uliform in its action , ( jllmp \ldquo ; would be of comparatively smadl importnJ ) , bnt the feet per second by hich the initial velocity of the servlce ries m , by lteriug the ctors ou which " " jump\ldquo ; depends , with some classcs of riflcs , diminish with others , the riation of the to the effect of the alteled initial vclocity .
npposc a riflc to shot , so as to hit the cc1ltre of rget TheIl initial vclocity is will the effect the triation of the vc.locity ?
the of tion of the rifle and the nglc ( in the cctory ot hose i velocity lclt to lf shot is ] ] tIlC g ations of with the initial , the } .
of this shot will a constant ) below the trajeetory will therefore strike the rget T at this tnce b } the centre .
If is at a distance so second ) FIG. 12 .
the hit in the .
hence since , the to the tion of initial velocity is ( .
) found the ) of riflc ) the relation .
this to the Lee-Enfield , the table the due to a variation of 40 feet seconld in the \ldquo ; that the direc.tion of the is not ffected ) feet tItce f hich the speed econd . . .
\mdash ; \mdash ; fcet .
1.17 These errors ith , ) the thaIl what the ) shots to in with this riHe the of the of \ldquo ; some tinlcI } tho sioti that tho comploto tion of cffcct of ])\ldquo ; hich ) octod 1 to .
iullp ' brations of improved accuracy in shooting ; ) in view of the above results it appear that this is not the case .
The present inquiry shows that in the design of a rifle it is most important to consider the relations between the explosion force and the natllral periods of the 1ifle , oonS e as an elastic structure , and probably the compensating effect above mentioned might ) made of more use than it is at preseIlt .
this purpose the explosion curves for various classes of ammunition the variations to which they are liable should be accurately known , and the proportionls and length of the barrel , as well as the attachment of the ba1rel to the stock , should be so arranged with regard to the nodes of the system as to make riation .
" " jump with the variation of initial velocity most nearly balaxlce , within certain nges , the alteration in the trajectory which gravity otherwise cffect in of the altered initial velocity .
To show the sort of advantage which may be by his means , we , for example , suppose the rifle to be so constructe that for some particular class of ammunition the varia ion of " " jump to a .
of initial velocity uses downward or upward itriation of 6 ' in the initied direction of the shot .
Then by subtracting from in , and multiplying } ) ) get the followlng Table VIII .
rlue to .
in initial velocity .
Error \mdash ; \mdash ; hout illmp .
With junlp 100 yards .
feet .
feet .
, 9 .
correction , if it ) realised without inconvetlient struction of the mechanism , for poses -range fire is becomiug of such importance .

