128 Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mam of \#163 ; Jan. 23 , spectrum except that under observation .
The words in my book written at the time are , " narrow slit found to be best at foefts of little telescope with positive eyepiece .
" In the note the second slit was stated to have been placed before the object-glass of the little telescope .
Such an arrangement was tried in connexion with some other experiments in progress at the time .
The plan of limiting the field of view to the part of the spectrum corresponding to the refrangibility of the light of the prominence , as well as the employment of a ruby glass , is of value when the air is not favourable , or when a spectroscope of small dispersive power is used .
III .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part VIII .
Family MacropodiujE : Genera Macropus , Osphranter , Phascolagus , Sthenurus , and Protemnodon .
" By Professor Owen , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received November 11 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In the present Part of the series of papers on the Fossil Mammals of Australia , the author enters upon the description and determination of the fossils referable to the family of Kangaroos ( Macropodidae ) , restricting , however , the latter term to the species in which the molar teeth have two transverse ridges for the chief character of their grinding-surface , and excluding the Potoroos ( Hypsiprymnkbe ) , in which the working-surface of the molars is formed by four tubercles in two transverse pairs .
The large extinct species of Kangaroo indicated under the names Macropus Titan , M. Atlas , and M. Anakin former publications ( 'Mitchell 's Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Australia , ' 2 vols .
8vo , 1838 , Palaeontological Appendix , vol. ii .
p. 59 , pis .
24-32 also ' Proceedings of the Geological Society of London , ' vol. xv .
p. 185 , 1858 ) here receive further elucidation of their specific distinction from any known living Kangaroos and of the grounds ( according to the value assigned thereto by present zoologists ) for referring two of these ( M. Atlas and M. Anak ) to distinct subgenera of Macropodidae .
As the extinct Kangaroos which the present paper defines are chiefly represented by fossil jaws and teeth , some remarks on the dentition of existing Kangaroos , with requisite illustrations , are premised , and the parts of the complex molars are defined .
The author then enters on the elucidation , aided by the facts premised , of Macropus Titan , M. affinis Osphranter Cooperi , 0 .
Gouldii , Phascolagus altus , Sthenurus Atlas , S. Brehus , Protemnodon Anak , P. Og , P. Mimas , and P. JRoechus .
The maxillary , mandibular , and dental characters of these extinct species are illustrated by the subjects of eight Plates .

