II .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the Development of Striated Muscular Fibre in Mammalia .
" By WILLIAM S. SAVORY , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Tutor of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital Medical College .
Communicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. Received December 9 , 1854 .
examined microscopically , there will be seen , besides blood-corpuscles in various stages of development , nucleated cells and free nuclei or cytoblasts scattered through a clear and structureless blastema in great abundance .
These cytoblasts vary in shape and size ; the smaller ones , which are by far the most numerous , being generally round , and the larger ones more or less oval .
Their outline is distinct and well defined , and one or two nucleoli may be seen in their interior as small , bright , highly refracting spots .
The rest of their substance is either uniformly nebulous or faintly granular .
The first stage in the development of striated muscular fibre consists in the aggregation and adhesion of the cytoblasts , and their investment by blastema so as to form elongated masses .
In these clusters the nuclei have , at first , no regular arrangement .
Almost , if not quite as soon as the cytoblasts are thus aggregated , they become invested by the blastema , and this substance at the same time appears to be much condensed , so that many of the nuclei become obscured .
These nuclei , thus aggregated and invested , next assume a much more regular position .
They fall into a single row with remarkable uniformity , and the surrounding substance at the same time grows clear and more transparent , and is arranged in the form of two bands bordering the fibre and bounding the extremities of the nuclei , so that now they become distinctly visible .
They are oval , and form a single row in the centre of the fibre , closely packed together side by side , their long axes lying transversely , and their extremities bounded on either side by a thin clear pellucid border of apparently homogeneous substance .
It is to be observed how closely the muscular fibres of mammalia at this period of their development resemble their permanent form in many insects .
The fibres next increase in length and the nuclei separate .
Small intervals appear between them .
The spaces rapidly widen , until at last the nuclei lie at a very considerable distance apart .
At the same time the fibre strikingly decreases in diameter ; for as the nuclei separate , the lateral bands fall in and ultimately coalesce .
This lengthening of the fibre and consequent separation of the nuclei is due to an increase of material , and not to a stretching of the fibre .
Soon after the nuclei have separated some of them begin to decay .
They increase in size ; their outline becomes indistinct ; a bright border appears immediately within their margin ; their contents become decidedly granular ; their outline is broken and interrupted ; and presently an irregular cluster of granules is all that remains , and these soon disappear .
It sometimes happens that the nuclei perish while in contact , before the fibre elongates ; but the subsequent changes are the same .
The striae generally first become visible at this period , immediately within the margin of the fibre .
The fibre is subsequently increased in size , and its development is continued by means of the surrounding cytoblasts .
These attach themselves to its exterior , and then become invested by a layer of the surrounding blastema .
Thus , as it were , nodes are formed at intervals on the surface of the fibre .
These invested nuclei are at first readily detached , but they soon become intimately connected and indefinitely blended with the exterior of the fibre .
All its characters are soon acquired , the nuclei at the same time gradually sink into its substance , and an ill-defined elevation , which soon disappears , is all that remains .
Lastly , the substance of the fibre becomes contracted and coln .
densed .
The diameter of a fibre towards , or at the close of intrauterine life , is considerably less than at a much earlier period .
At the period of birth muscular fibres vary much in size .
The several stages in the development of muscular fibre , above mentioned , do not succeed each other as a simple consecutive series ; on the contrary , two , or more , are generally progressing at the same time .
Nor does each commence at the same period in all cases .

