]\gt ; Transmission of Sunlight th rough the .
171 standard illuminating value of the spectrum was taken from tions made in Switzerland at 8000 feet altitude on September 15 at noon .
The other observations were made at South Kensington .
It was found that with the wind in the proper quarter the sky at the Iatter place was as pure in colour as in the country , and that measures made on the days on which there was apparently no haze gave resuIts which when combined together gave a minimum value for of ' A mean of the results showed that The author then discusses the value of the area of the curves btained , and shows that astronomers who have used the ordinary logaritbmic for.mula of I ' have not erred in so doing , but I that these resuIts are perfectly concordant with the results obtained by taking the different values of absorption over the whole visibls spectrum .
He further shows that with the coefficients of transmission for diiferent wave-lengths which Langley has published , the bove formula is applicable , which is contrary to the theory which Langley proponnded .
The author further shows that when using the part of the spectrum to which various photographic salts are sensitive , the areas of the curves of intensities also fall in with the logaritbmic formula .
He also points out that if the value of in the formula I ' ( from which the formula I ' is deduced ) be divided in the case of the optical value , or by 255 in the case of the photographic value , when bromoiodide of silver is employed on the sensitissd plate , the value of is obtained .
104 and 255 represent of 5570 and 4450 respectively .
From this he deduces the fact that .
the illuminating value of any part of the visiOle spectrum on any day at any hour can be ascertained by taking the optical and raphic values of total sunlight .
This plan not only enables the light which undergoes general absorption to be calculated , but also the values of loss of intensity for each ray .
Hs further indicates that a double photographic observation , in one of which the less refrangibJe end of the spectrum , and in the other of which the more refrangible is used , will give similar resuIts .
Experiments on the photographic methods are described , and the resuIts agree with those which theory indicated would The author states that the high altitudes in the Alps may not be suitable for observations of wave.lengths in the infra-red ; } ) thab they are especially suitable for observations in bhe visible part of the spectrum , since the atmosphere is very often free from dust , though it may not be free from aqueous vapour , and the latter affects the dark rays vastly more than it does the visible rays .
He then points out the probable cause of the presence of particles which scatter light , and briefly discusses the differences which he obtains in his value for the nsmission of light , as compared with Bouguer , Seidel , A series of tables close the paper , in which the original observations and the deduoed values are given .
Presonts , March 10 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Calcutta:\mdash ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal ( Natural History ) .
Vol. .
Part 2 .
No. 3 . .
Calcutta 1886 .
Journal ( Philological ) .
Vol. .
Part 1 .
No. 3 . .
Calcutta 1886 ; Proceedings .
1886 .
Nos. .
Oalcutta .
The Society .
blin :\mdash ; Royal Irish Academy .
Proceedings ( Literature , \amp ; c Vol. .
No. 7 . .
Dublin 1886 .
Proceedings Vol. IV .
No. 5 . .
Dublin 1886 ; Transactions ( Literature , \amp ; c Vol. XXVII .
Parts 6-8 . .
Dubhn 1885-86 .
Transactions ( Science ) .
Vol. XXVIII .
Parts 21-25 .
Dubhn 1885-86 ; " " Cunningham Memoirs Nos. -III . .
Dublin .
The Academy .
London :Entomological Society .
Transactions .
1886 .
Part V. .
London .
The Society .
Odontological Society .
Transactions .
Vol. XVI . .
London 1884 .
Ditto .
Vol. XVII .
No. 1 . .
London 1884 .
The Society .
Manchester :Geological Society .
TransacGions .
Vol. XIX .
Parts 3-4 . .
Manchester 1887 .
The Society .
:\mdash ; Societe aise de Physique .
Collection de bIemoires relatifs a la Physique .
Tome III . .
Paris 1887 .
The Society .
Pesth:\mdash ; Konigl .
Ungar .
Geologische Anstalt .
Foldtani Kozlony .
Kotet XVI .
Fuzet 7-12 . .
Budapest 1886 ; Mittheilungen aus dem Jahrbuche .
Band VIII .
Heft .
4 . .
Budapest 1887 ; Catalog der Bibliothek .
Suppl. 1 . .
Budapest 1886 .
The Institution .
Stockholm :Kongl .
Vetenskaps-Akademie .
Ofversigt .
No. 10 . .
Stockholm 1886 .
The Academy .

