497 Myriopoda and Arachnida.\#151 ; By Arthur Gardiner , Sfc .
( Plate LII .
) Op the twelve species of Myriopodaobtained by Messrs. George Gulliver and H. H. Slater , seven are referable to the Chilognatha and five to the : all , with the exception of the two species of ( and possibly sorornus and the Meeistocephalus ) , appear to be new to science .
So few naturalists have interested themselves in the study of these animals , that it is impossible at present even to form an opinion as to the geographical distribution of the species of Podriguez ; all that can be said is that , in all probability , the two forms of Scolopendra will be found abundantly in Madagascar .
Of the Arachnida twenty-eight belong to the Araneidea , one to the Acaridea , and one to the Scorpionidea , eleven of them being new species .
Of the remainder , three have been previously recorded from Mauritius , eight from Bourbon , two from Madagascar , three from Mauritius and Bourbon , and one from Mauritius , Bourbon , and Madagascar .
The last-mentioned species ( leucosius ) is very common , and probably has a wide range .
Specimens in the Collection of the British Museum are ticketed " Magdeleine .
" The species of the greatest interest is a new form of the curious genus - mopes of Cambridge , a group of delicate and extremely strange-looking four-eyed spiders , originally discovered by Mr. Thwaites in Ceylon .
There is also an abnormal form of Sphasus , which in colouring , and general aspect much resembles * mopes ; unhappily both of these species seem to be very rare .
MYRIOPODA .
Name of Myriopoda found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagascar , t ?
A o isly obtained elsewhere .
Other Localities .
Strongylosoma errucaria , Butler - X Cambala nodulosa , Butler - - - X SpirosUeptus avernus , Butler X Spirostreptus sorornus , Butler X Spirostreptus gulliveri , Butler X Spirostreptus simulans , Butler X Spirobolus hecate , Butler - X Eurylithobius slateri , Butler X Scolopendra mossambica , Peters - Mozambique .
Scolopendra ferruginea , Koch ( Locality previously unknown ) .
Rhombocephalus smaragdinus , Butler X Mecistocephalus gulliveri , Butler - X Reunion ?
Polydesmidae .
Strongylosoma , Brandt .
Strongylosoma Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 444 ( 1876 ) .
Deep chocolate-brown ; under surface , legs , lateral wings , ami hind margins of the segments pale testaceous ; segments glabrous , first dorsal segment with well-defined lateral carina ; preanal segment terminally rostriform .
Length 8 lines , width 1 line , ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species seems to be allied to / S ' .
of Gervais , but it differs in its well-marked lateral carina , smaller size , and deeper coloration ; young examples are , however , paler than the type .
Ten specimens were brought home by Mr. Gulliver .
Camhala , Gray . .
Cambala nodulosa .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 444 ( 1876 ) .
Beddish testaceous ; dorsal segments with a lateral grey stripe ; first segment longitudinally multisulcate ; remaining segments crossed transversely by two rows of tubercles , between which , on each segment , is a depressed line ; posterior margins narrowly reborded .
Length 8 lines , width 1 millim. * ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species has about fifty dorsal segments , but they are difficult to count , owing to its small size and elaborate sculpturing .
Nine examples were obtained .
Julidse .
Spirostreptus , Brandt .
\lt ; c Spirostreptus Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 445 ( 1S76 ) .
Black , legs and antennae castaneous ; forty-three dorsal segments ; first segment smooth , with narrow marginal ridge ; remaining segments rugulose and depressed in front , smooth behind , striated at the sides ; preanal segment produced into a point behind .
Length 13 lines , width 1 line .
Cascade Yalley .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Eight examples .
Spirostreptus sorornus .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 445 ( 1876 ) .
Colour and general structure of the preceding ; forty-nine dorsal segments , which are not rugulose in front .
Length 1 inch 9 lines , width 3 millims. ( Coll , by Slater .
) MYRIOPODA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
This may be the S. niff err imus of Newport , but the latter is only represented by the head , nuchal plate , and two or three of the anterior dorsal segments , in a dried state .
Only one specimen was obtained .
Spirostreptm Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 445 ( 1876 ) .
Olivaceous ; dorsal region dark ; eyes black ; face , margins of first dorsal segment , and hind margins of other segments tawny ; legs reddish tawny ; fifty-seven dorsal segments , first segment with square anterior angles , above which are four depressed lines ; marginal ridge feebly developed ; each of the remaining segments crossed by a depressed line , behind which they are swollen ; sides striated as usual ; preanal segment slightly produced , with Insinuate hind margin .
Length 2 inches 4 lines , width 5 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Nine examples were collected .
It is said to be common .
" Spirostreptm Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii , p. 445 ( 1876 ) .
Olivaceous ; a dorsal series of dark spots in front and a continuous lateral series of blackish spots ; first segment clouded with brown behind ; forty-three dorsal segments , first segment with marginal ridge feebly developed ; remaining segments rugulose and depressed in front ; preanal segment regularly arched .
Length 10J lines , width 2 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species looks like a small form of the preceding , but its structure is quite distinct .
Eight specimens were obtained .
Spirobolus , Brandt .
Spirobolm .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 445 ( 1876 ) .
Shining black ; front margins of the segments below castaneous ; fifty-nine dorsal segments ; lateral wings of first segment quadrisulcate in front ; remaining segments swollen behind , laterally striated ; preanal segment deeply bisinuated behind , the centre of the hind margin being produced .
Length , 4 inches 3 lines , width 7 millims. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Only one individual of this fine species was obtained ; it is " not common .
" Lithobiidse .
EurylitJiobius , Butler . .
Lithobioaffinis , multo latior , segmentis viginti ; antennarum articulis septen decim , quorum decern primoribus et postremo distinctis , aliis ineonspicuis ; oculis utrobique quatuor ; pedum paribus uno et viginti , latis , breviusculis .
Gen. typ .
JE .
slateri .
Eurylithobius slateri .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 446 ( 1876 ) .
Pawn-coloured , legs and ventral surface testaceous ; dorsal segments gradually narrowing towards each extremity , with two longitudinal depressed lines and a lateral marginal ridge ; terminal segment subconical behind .
Length of body 1 inch , including hind legs 1 inch 8 lines ; width in the centre lines .
( Coll , by Slater .
) Only one specimen was obtained .
Scolopendridae .
Scolopendra , Linnaeus .
Scolopendra mossam , Peters .
Twenty-one specimens , Scolopendra ferru , Koch .
Thirty-three specimens .
The two preceding species look much like different ages of the same animal ; but Hr .
Peters seems to have figured his species from an adult example , which has alone prevented my uniting them .
Rhombocephalus , Newport .
Lhombocephalus smaragdinus .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 446 ( 1876 ) .
Anterior half of body emerald-green , posterior half olive green ; segmental incisions deeper-coloured ; legs pale greenish , in twenty pairs ; posterior pair without denticles ; preanal plate oblong .
Length of the body 10J lin^s .
( Coll , by Slater .
) One specimen .
Mecistocephalus , Newport .
Mecistocephalus Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 446 ( 1876 ) .
Amber-coloured , legs paler ; head reddish castaneous ; forceps of mandibles black , the latter with about four teeth ; head below deeply excavated ; dorsal segments with a deep longitudinal sulcus ; forty-eight pairs of legs .
Length 1 inch 1 line .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species , of which only one example was found , is evidently nearly allied to the Geopliilus insularis of Lucas ; indeed it is just possible that the two may be varieties of one animal .
ARACHNID A.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
Names of Species obtained in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Mauritius .
Bourbon .
reviously h S | a a obtained elsewhere .
Other Localities .
Clubiona insularis , Vinson X o Scytodes thoracica , Latreille - X Pholcus elongatus , Vinson X Pholcus vexillifer , Butler - X Theridium borbonicum , Vinson - X Theridium diurnum , Vinson - X Latrodectus menavodi , Vinson - X Linyphia argyrodes , - - X Epeira opuntiae , Dufour - - X X Spain and Algeria .
Epeira isabella , var .
, Vinson - X Argiope raauritia , Walckenaer - X X South Africa and Madeira .
Meta undulata , Vinson - X Meta vacillans , Butler - X Nephila inaurata , Walckenaer - X Nephila ardentipes , Butler - X Nepliila instigans , Butler - - X Tetraguatha protensa , Walckenaer - X Tetragnatha nero , Butler - - X Gasteracantha mauritia , Vinson X X Uloborus vanillarum , Vinson - X Miagrammopes Gulliveri , Butler - - X Olios leucosius , Walckenaer - X X X ( tMagdeleine .
" Olios captiosus , Walckenaer - X X Sphasus lucasii , Vinson - X Sphasus extensipes , Butler - X Salticus baptizatus , Butler - X Salticus scabellatus , Butler - X Salticus rodericensis , Butler - X Holothyrus testudineus , Butler - X Tityus marmoreus , Koch * " X * Locality not previously recorded .
Araneidea .
Clubiona , Latreille .
Clubiona Vinson .
One specimen of this species was obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
Scytodes , Scytodes thoracica , Latreille .
Seven examples .
It is " common under leaves , bark , \amp ; c."\#151 ; .
Pholcus , Wa Pholcus elongatus , Vinson .
Viye examples obtained .
Pholcus vexillifer .
( Plate LII .
, figs. 6 , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , yoI .
xvii .
, p. 441 ( 1876 ) .
$ .
Cephalothorax inverted heart-shaped , waved at the ends , bright reddish castaneous ; caput ascending , with the front margin and a central marking yellowish ; eyes upon elevations of the surface , those of the lateral groups forming triangles , anterior pair of eyes small ; falces blackish , yellowish at base ; maxillae and labrum tawny ; pectoral shield pyriform , yellowish ; legs pale amber-yellow , clothed with whitish hairs and black spines ; palpi testaceous , with piceous tips : abdomen sub-cylindrical with a wavy outline , above testaceous , with a central stellate streak , several oblique lines , and the borders brown , posterior extremity testaceous ; underside the same colour , with the base and a central streak greyish brown .
Length 10 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 2 , 4 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Of the lateral groups of eyes , those nearest the mesial line are smallest , the claws of the legs are black ; the spinners are testaceous .
Two examples were obtained .
Theridium , W Theridium horhonic , Vinson .
One specimen found " on leaves."\#151 ; Gul Theridium diurn , Vinson .
One specimen .
Latrodectus , Walckenaer .
Latrodectus mena , Vinson .
Two specimens .
Linyphia , Linyphia argyrodes , Walckenaer .
Tour specimens found " on leaves."\#151 ; Gulliver .
Epeira , Walckenaer .
Epeira opuntice , Dufour .
Tifty-eight specimens , exhibiting numerous variations , among which is the form named var .
jlava by M. Vinson .
This species according to Mr. Gulliver is " common and " lives in a web of irregular construction .
" ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
Epeira Isabella var .
Vinson .
Two specimens .
Argiope , Koch .
Argiope mauritia , Walckenaer .
One example was obtained .
Meta , Koch .
Meta undulata , Vinson .
Four examples were obtained .
Meta vacillans.(Plate LII .
, figs. 4 , 4\lt ; a-c .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 441 ( 1876 ) .
\lt ; ? ? .
Cephalothorax smoky testaceous , obovate , truncated at the ends , depressed behind ; caput ascending , convex , with a marked depression on each side ; a central longitudinal ridge ; eyes black , in two slightly arched series : abdomen cylindrical , testaceous , with two central lines and a broad undulated longitudinal dusky band , bounded by three black spots on each side ; the sides silvery ; underside black , with a silvery line on each side : legs long , slender , testaceous , paler below , blackish at the joints , sparsely dotted with long spines ; palpi slender , testaceous ; male palpus with a clavus resembling the head of a vulture , covered with long bristles ; falces subcylindrical , testaceous , about nine teeth on their inner margins ; pectoral plate pentagonal scutiform , testaceous .
Length of body 6 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 2 , 4 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) The cephalothorax is slightly convex in front , and concave behind , with the centre of the thoracic region depressed .
Eyes black , arranged in two slightly convex series across the anterior part of the caput , those of the posterior series rather larger than those of the anterior .
The falces have a long curved terminal movable fang , the maxillae and labrum are sordid testaceous .
Four examples were collected .
Nephila , Leach .
Nephila inaurata , Walckenaer .
Seventeen specimens , including both sexes , were obtained .
Nephila ardentipes .
( Plate LII .
, figs. 1 , 1 Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 443 ( 1876 ) .
\#165 ; .
Cephalothorax black , hairy , oblong , with convex margins , contracted behind the caput ; two central shining black tubercles ; a deep excavation at the back of the thoracic region ; caput ascending , laterally excavated ; oculiferous tubercles shining ; palpi cylindrical , mahogany-red , hairy at the base , the last three joints black and hairy : abdomen grayish testaceous , silvery pubescent ; the dorsal region subochraceous , enclosing a quadrangle of four black spots in front and two parallel rows of black spots behind , where it is also bounded by six black spots , three on each side ; sides covered with parallel , irregular , interrupted black lines ; underside brownish , dark towards the base and crossed by a yellow band , beyond which is an area enclosed by black dots and shaped like an heraldic shield : legs robust , hairy mahogany-red ; the apices of the femora , knees , apices of tibiae , the tarsi , and metatarsi black , the black parts densely hairy ; maxillae black , with reddish margins ; pectoral plate heptagonal , with eight tubercles , three of which are prominent and form a triangle ; falces black , with three marginal teeth .
Length 36 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 2 , 4 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Most nearly allied to N. nigra of Vinson ; but with the abdomen smaller and not clouded with black , and the legs altogether redder .
I have examined thirty-seven examples , but have seen no variation .
" Web strong and sticky ; used by the natives where we use waxed ends."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Nephila instigans .
( Plate LII .
, fig. 10 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 442 ( 1876 ) . ? .
Cephalothorax oblong , wider behind than before , laterally convex , contracted behind the caput , dull mahogany red , but the back of thoracic region shining black , with a deep central depression ; caput ascending , covered with black bristles , which also form a central longitudinal line ; legs bright ochre-yellow , sprinkled with black spines ; the tarsi and metatarsi castaneous , clothed with brown hair ; proximal extremities of the femora blackish ; basal half of palpi yellow , nearly smooth , apical half castaneous , clothed with black bristles ; falces dark reddish castaneous , with three teeth on each inner margin ; pectoral shield heptagonal subpyriform , black , with central orange longitudinal streak ; abdomen sandy brown , with a quadrangle of four punctures ; region of epigyne blackish .
Length 19 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 2 , 4 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species does not possess the usual tufted legs .
Two examples were collected .
Tetragnatha , Latreille .
Tetragnatha protensaWalckenaer .
One specimen .
-ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
Tetragnatha nero.(Plate LII .
, tigs .
3 , 3 Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii.j p. 442 ( 1876 ) .
3 ? .
Ceplialothorax fusiform , truncate at each end , narrowed in front , with a slender marginal ridge ; caput ascending , bounded behind by one or two depressed diverging lines , and with a central depressed spot ; centre of thoracic region depressed ; eyes black ; palpi long and slender , of the male with a globose clavus with white cap , and held by finger-like processes ; falces with ten central teeth on each inner margin , and two terminal teeth , the longer one of which projects forwards on each side of the movable fang , the latter black ; but the remainder of the cephalotliorax and its members tawny ; the palpi , coxae , and trochanters pale ; pectoral plate deep castaneous ; abdomen pale brown , irrorated with aeneous , sub-cylindrical , a darker dorsal line .
Length of body , 3 8 millims. , ?
12 ; relative length of legs 1 , 4 , 2 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Three examples were found by Mr. Gulliver , who says that it " lies with legs " extended on a single thread placed over or near streams .
" Two examples .
Gastracantha , Gastracantha mau , Vinson .
Uloborns , Latreille .
TJloborus vanillarum , Vinson .
Six specimens of this species were obtained .
It " makes a web in crevices of " rocks."\#151 ; G. Gulliver .
Miagrammopes , Cambridge .
Miagrammopes gulliveri .
( Plate LII .
, figs. 5 , 5a , b. ) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 443 ( 1876 ) .
Allied to M. thwaitesii of Cambridge , but differing as followsCephalothorax longer and broader , more angular when seen laterally , and with convex rather than concave margins ; caput longer , rather higher than the thoracic region , more convex in front , testaceous , with silvery reflexions and a whitish hind border ; eyes black , forming a convex series across the back of the caput ; lateral eyes twice as large as the central pair , the latter far apart ; legs amber-yellow , the femora notched at the distal extremity , the intermediate joints shorter than in 31 .
thwaitesii , the tarsi of the hind legs broader , claws black ; palpi short , slender , hairy , testa3 s ceous ; falces small , movable fang piceous ; sternum somewhat different in form ; abdomen nearly twice as long as the cephalothorax , testaceous , with a central blackish line wider than in M. thwaitesii , and not throwing off downward branches ; basal region less contracted , lateral margins subangulated in the middle , whence they converge towards the hinder extremity ; ventral surface slightly concave , testaceous , with two longitudinal brown lines ; spinners concealed by dense hairs , converge towards the central line .
[ Length 6 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 4 , 2 , 3 .
Two examples of this rare and interesting species were " swept from grass " by Mr. Gulliver .
Olios , Walck Olios lencosius , Walckenaer .
This species , of which 20 specimens were obtained , is said by Mr. Gulliver to be " common in and out of doors .
" Olios captiosus ?
Walckenaer .
One specimen , obtained by Mr. Slater .
Sphasus , Walckenaer .
Sphasuslucasi Vinson .
Four specimens .
Sphasus ?
exiensipes .
( Plate LII .
, figs. 2 , 2 Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 439 ( 1S76 ) . ? .
Oephalothorax testaceous , irregularly pentagonal , almost flat ; a longitudinal ridge from behind the eyes to beyond the caput i eyes black , placed upon a whitish elevation on the front of the caput ; the anterior pair very minute , in the centre of the face , the others considerably larger and forming a transversely hexagonal figure , front margin of face projecting in the centre , behind the projection a V-shaped depression : abdomen testaceous , subcylindrical , flattened below , tapering slightly towards the posterior extremity : legs pale ochraceous ; the tibiae and metatarsi of the two anterior pairs fringed with brown bristles ; front pair very like those o Miagrammopes ; palpi short , pale ochraceous , with blackish tips ; maxillae and fa ces pale brown ; pectoral plate elongate hexagonal ; ventral surface of abdomen wi three central longitudinal grey lines .
Length 7 millims. ; relative length o eg 1 .
4 , 2 , 3 .
Mr. Gulliver obtained one specimen of this little species by sweeping grass , has the general aspect of the genus Miagramm , but the structure of a Sphasus .
ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
Salticus , Latreille .
Salticus scabellatus .
( Plate LII .
, fig. 9 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 441 ( 1876 ) .
$ .
Oculiferous region of cephalotborax black , bounded by a crescent-shaped reddish castaneons belt ; thoracic region dark piceons ; eyes opaline ; palpi testaceous ; falces , labrum , maxillae , and anterior tibiae dark piceous ; legs above fawn-coloured , pectoral plate and legs below paler ; abdomen grey , subpyriform , its base black ; a central pale brown longitudinal stripe , bounded laterally by four black spots , which form a square ; venter pale brown , speckled with dark brown , a central line and the margins dark grey .
Length 8 millims. ; relative length of legs 4,1 , 3 , 2 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species seems to be allied to S. of Cambridge ; only two examples were brought home .
Salticus baptizatus.(Plate LII .
, fig. 7 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 440 ( 1876 ) . ? .
Cephalothorax inverted bell-shaped , dark shining piceous , with a whitish submarginal line , bordered within laterally by a rather wider tawny line ; a minute cruciform amber-coloured spot in the centre of the caput , two lateral crescent-shaped fawn-coloured spots ( one on each side ) clothed with white scales , and a leaf-like fawn-coloured patch in the centre of the thoracic region , the front of which is depressed ; the hinder part and apex of the thoracic patch clothed with whitish scales ; falces , maxillae , labrum , femora , tibiae , and metatarsi of anterior legs castaneous ; pectoral plate fusiform , testaceous ; last three pairs of legs and tarsi of anterior pair amber-yellow , claws black ; palpi whitish : eyes opaline , forming an oblong across the caput ; relative sizes as follows\#151 ; anterior central pair , posterior , lateral anterior , lateral intermediate : abdomen elliptical , dark brown , with a lateral whitish line and a broad , white-edged , irregular , central testaceous streak ; ventral surface whitish , striated with brown at the sides ; a central ferruginous streak ; region of spinnerets testaceous .
Length 9 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 4 , 2 , 3 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) This species has the general coloration of the much smaller species figured in Lucas 's " Algeria " under the name of S. t Only one specimen was obtained .
Salticus rodericensis.(Plate LII .
, fig. 8 .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 440 ( 1876 ) . ? .
Cephalothorax dark piceous , clothed with testaceous hairs ; a central longi3 s 2 tudinal reddish castaneous streak from the hack of the caput to the posterior margin ; eyes opaline ; falces , labrum , maxillae , legs above , femora and tibiae below , and epigyne castaneous , clothed with testaceous hairs ; tarsi testaceous , with black claws ; abdomen ovate , dark brown , pilose , with a dorsal testaceous streak interrupted by angulated lines at its inferior extremity , and intersected by a black line ; two arched black lines spotted with testaceous from the sides of the testaceous streak to the spinnerets ; pectoral plate , coxae , trochanters , and venter fawn-coloured , base of venter white ; a central tapering grey steak .
Length 10 millims. ; relative length of legs 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Apparently allied to S. intentus of Cambridge .
Live specimens were obtained .
Acakxdea .
Holothyrus , Holothyrus ?
testudmeus ( Plate LII .
, figs. 11 , 11 a-c ) .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 444 ( 1876 ) .
Carapace ovate , convex , conical in front , fawn-coloured , clouded with brown , smooth and shining , with well-defined lateral carina ; legs rather short and robust ; ventral surface flattened and shining behind , with an apparently hinged oblong projecting anterior plate , wider in front than behind ; body in front concave , with only three pairs of legs , their relative size 3 , 2 , 1 ; antennse with hairy terminal joint .
Length f millim. ( Coll , by Gulliver .
) . .
Although fourteen examples of this species have come , not differing in size or structure , I have been unwilling to erect a new genus for its reception .
Prom many points which it appears to have in common with H. coccmella of Mauritius , I think it possible that it may turn out to be an immature condition of that species .
SCORPIONIDEA .
Tityus , Koch .
Tityus marmoreu , Koch .
Twenty-four examples were collected by Messrs. Gulliver \amp ; Slater .
ARACHNIDA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
509 Description of Plate LII .
Fig. 1 .
Rephila a Butl .
let .
, t } ) \#187 ; 16 .
\#187 ; }\gt ; lc .
\#187 ; yy \#187 ; 2 .
Sphasus extensipes " 2ct .
) ) jj 3 .
Tretmgnatha nero " 3a .
) ) \#187 ; )j 36 .
j ) j ) \gt ; ) 4 .
Meta vacillan " 4 a. ; j !
j \#187 ; 46 .
j\gt ; j ) )\gt ; 4c .
" " " 5 .
MiOgrammopes gulliveri , , oa , j , } , \#187 ; 56 .
j , jj jj 6 .
Pholcus vexillifer 6et .
, , \gt ; , 7 .
Salticus b 8 .
" rodericensis " 9 .
" scabellatus " 10 .
Nephila in " 11 .
Holothyrus " Hot .
\#187 ; )\gt ; \#187 ; 116 .
I. ji j\gt ; 11c .
Upper surface .
Profile view enlarged .
Ventral surface of abdomen , showing scutiform area .
Pectoral shield , showing arrangement of tubercles .
Profile view , enlarged three times .
Upper surface of ceplialothorax and base of abdomen greatly enlarged .
Upper surface enlarged .
Falx opened to show the dentition .
Male palpus .
Profile view enlarged three times .
View of upper surface without the members .
Falx opened to show the dentition .
Male palpus , as seen from the side .
Profile view much enlarged .
Upper surface , enlarged about 8 times .
Profile view of cephalothorax .
Upper surface , enlarged .
" " enlarged about 5 times to show form , pattern , and arrangement of eyes .
Upper surface enlarged .
\gt ; \gt ; ) ) \#187 ; ? ? ? ?
" " natural size .
" " greatly magnified .
Under surface " " Apparently hinged plate projecting from flattened posterior area of the ventral surface .
Leg .
Trans of Venus Bxped Rodriguez .
Zoology .
PI .
L1I H. Mintern. .
del .
Aretclinidsu .

