History of Mines and Metals , communicated in a Letter to Dr. Rutty , S. R. Secr. &amp; Coll. Med. Lond. Soc. By Dr. Frank Nicholls , Professor of Anatomy at Oxford .
Dear Sir , IN Obedience to your Commands , I here send you the Particulars of what I observed during a Year 's Stay in the Western Part of Cornwall , concerning Mines , &amp;c. Mines in general are Veins or Cavities within the Earth , whose Sides receding from , or approaching nearer to each other , make them of unequal Breadths in different Places ; sometimes forming large Spaces , which are called Holes .
They are filled with Substances , which , whether metallic , or of any other Nature , are termed the Loads .
When the Substances froming these Loads are reducible to Metal , the Loads are by the Miners said to be alive ; otherwise they are termed dead Loads .
In Cornwall and Devon the Loads always hold their Course from Eastward to Westward ; tho ' in other Parts of England they frequently run from North to South .
The Miners report , that the Sides of the Load never bear in a Perpendicular , but constantly underlay either to the North or South .
The Mines seem to be , or to have been , the Channels thro ' which the Waters pass within the Earth ; and , like Rivers , have their small Branches opening into them in all Directions ; which are by the Miners termed , the Feeders of the Load .
Most Mines have Streams of Water running thro ' them , and when they are found dry , it seems to be owing to the Waters having changed their Course , as compelled to it , either because the Load had stopped up the ancient Passages , or that some new and more easy ones are made .
The Load is frequently intercepted by the crossing of a Vein of Earth , or Stone , or some different metallic Substance .
In which Case it generally happens , that one Part of the Load is moved a considerable Distance to one Side .
This transient Load is by the Miners termed a Flooking ; and the Part of the Load which is moved , is , in their Terms , said to be heaved .
This heaving the Load would be an inexpressible Loss to the Miner , did not Experience teach him , that , as the Loads always run on the Sides of the Hills , so the Part heaved is always moved towards the Descent of the Hill .
So that the Miner working towards the Ascent of the Hill , and meeting a Flooking , considers himself as working in the Part heaved ; wherefore cutting thro ' the Flooking , he works upon its Back towards the Ascent of the Hill , till he recovers the Load , and vice versa .
Thus in Figure the first , AD shows a Load running in the Side of a Hill , B the Feeders , C the Flooking , D is the Part heaved .
Sometimes , tho ' not constantly , the Mine is lined with an intermediate Substance between the Load and it self .
This is ( properly speaking ) the Wall of the Load : Though , in the common Acceptance of that Term , it signifies either such intermediate Substance , or the Side of the Mine , where the Load immediately unites it self to it .
Thus in Figure the second , A is the Side of the Mine , B the intermediate Wall of white Mundick , C the Load of Copper .
And in Figure the third AB the two Walls of Spar-Stone , Ca small Vein of Tin Oar .
The Springs in these Parts are always hard , as abounding very much , either in stony , or sulphureosaline Particles .
From this Water thus saturated with stony Particles , we frequently find the Passages of the Water under Ground , either partly , or totally stopped up ; the stony Matter gradually concreting round the Sides of the Mine , and forming thereby a confused Load of Spar-Stone .
At other Times this stony Matter concretes more distinctly : In which Case the stony Matter seems to be governed in its Concretion by a Plastic Power .
N. B. When I speak of a Plastic Power , I would be understood as meaning only a Modus of Attraction , by which the attracted Particles are ranged in this or that determined Form .
This Power then so exerts its Action , as to range the concreting Matter into the Form of an hexagonal Prism , whose Head goes off in an hexagonal Pyramid .
Where this plastic Power happens to be single and uncontrolled , it preserves the Form of the Cristal to very considerable Magnitudes .
In these single Cristals we may observe , that they are of different Transparencies and Colours , as the stony Matter is more or less disengaged from other Substances , or as those other Substances are capable of imparting different Tinctures to them .
And that they seem formed laminatim ; tho ' the Laminae are only distinguishable , when the Matters from whence the Cristal is successively formed , happens to differ in Purity .
Thus in Figure the fourth , the Cristal was at first formed from Matter entangled with a foul yellow Substance ; after which , a pure Matter advening , the Cristal was in its future Lamination formed more pure and transparent .
But where the plastic Particles are more numerous , there seems Reason to believe , that these very Plastic Particles , before they are fixed , are subject to the Control and Direction of any fixed plastic Particle , within the Verge of whose Activity they happen to move : notwithstanding which , after they are once fixed , they exert their own plastic Powers , and , in Conjunction with the first plastic Particle , govern the future Concretion , in such Manner as to form a seemingly irregular Cristal , tho ' composed of two or more regular Cristals .
Thus in Figure the fifth and sixth A and C seem to have attracted amongst the stony Particles , two plastic Particles , which afterwards exerting their own Powers , form the additional Cristals B and D. There are many Phenomenon observable in these Cristals , which , at present , I may pass over , as less relating lating to the Affair of Metals ; wherefore I shall only add , that these cristalline Concretions exert a strong Attraction on many metallic Substances .
As in Fig. 7 .
A the Spar has attracted the three Portions of Lead B. and in Fig. 8 .
the Cristals C have attracted the Copper D , and are attracted by the Lead E. The sulphureo-saline Particles , with which , as I observed , the Waters are frequently saturated , are found to be either of a vitriolick or an arsenical Nature : The first constantly , if pure , concreting into white Cubes resembling Grains of Silver , while the arsenical Sulphur concretes into yellow Cubes like Grains of pure Gold .
Both these are by the Miners termed Mundick .
These sulphureo-saline Substances seem directed in their Concretions by a plastic Particle , in same same Manner as the Cristals above-mention 'd ; and , like them , upon the same Principles , are found simple or compound .
In their Sides you may observe the Concretion forms it self like Threads , which in three Sides run in different Directions , but are always similar in the opposite Sides .
Fig. 9 .
shows one of these Cubes , A the parallel Threads .
Fig. 10 .
shows another of these Cubes , from whose Sides arise small Segments of Cubes C. But this plastic Power seems to be weakened or destroyed , in Proportion , as this sulphureous Matter is more or less entangled with metallic Substances .
Thus in Fig. 11 .
the plastic Particle seems for a while to have exerted its Power in the usual Manner , till the advening Matter grew entangled with a small Quantity of Copper , after which it seems only to have exerted its attractive but not its plastic Power .
And in Fig. 12 .
the white Mundick being infected with Iron , seems so far from being affected by a plastic Power , that it concreted in the Form of Icicles from the Fluid which transuded thro ' the Top of the Mine .
Fig. 13 .
represents some small Cubes of white or vitriolick Mundick .
But to return to the Mines : They are found to contain Tin , Lead , Copper , Iron , and a pseudometallick Substance , by the Miners termed Glist : For the Particulars of all which , as they would vastly swell the Bulk of one Letter , I must refer you to my next .
I am , With the utmost Respect , Your obliged Friend , Plate 2 Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
Fig. 7 .
Fig. 12 .
B ACA Fig. 11 .
Fig. 13 .
B A Fig. 1 .
B AB B B Fig. 2 .
C A BC Philo : Trans : No:401 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 5 .
BC Fig. 6 .
AC D BD E Fig. 4 .
A Fig. 3 .
~ .
2 .
B A ~C

