An Account of a strange kind of Earth , taken up near Smyrna , of which is made Soap , together with the way of making it , Communicated by Dr. Edward Smith , F. R. S. THERE is a considerable natural Curiosity in the Neighbourhood of Smyrna , called by the Franks Soap-Earth , and has no other proper distinguishing Name among the Turks or Greeks .
It is found only in two Places near Duraclea , a large open Village , about six Leagues to the Eastward of Smyrna ; and in a very flat plain , about a League Westward of the River Hermus .
It is a fine Soap , and at the first gathering whitish Earth , which boils or shoots up out of the Earth .
It is gathered always before Sun Rise , and in Mornings when there falls no Dew , so that a stock must be laid in for the whole Year in the Summer Months .
It comes up in some Places in Inch or two above the Surface of the Ground .
But the Sun Rising upon it , makes it to fall down again .
The Earth producing it lies low in both Places , and is in the Winter washy ; it is covered , tho ' but thinly with Grass .
I suspected at my first observing it , that the Neighbourhood of the Sea might Impregnate the Ground about Hermus which produces it , with the Salt this Earth affords for the making Soap : But the Ground producing it about Duraclea , lying several Leagues from the Sea , seems to overthrow this Speculation ; and the Sea seems but little concerned in this Production .
Of this Earth I gathered and brought to Smyrna , but had not the Satisfaction to see it before Sun Rise .
Every Morning there is a new Crop , tho ' all be taken away which the Preceding Day afforded .
To Discover what quantity of Salt this Earth contains , I had the following Experiments made .
Three hundred Drams put into a Retort in Balneo Arenae for twelve Hours cum Igne Violento , gave between five and six Ounces of an insipid Phlegma , the smell only such as proceeds in such Operations from the Fire .
Finding therefore no Volatile Salt , as what must have come over by the foregoing Experiment ; Two hundred Drams Calcined at a Bagnio Fire , in a German Crucible , were dissolved in Water .
The Composition of Earth and Water boiled into a Lixivium made Five hundred Drams .
It was boiled for three Hours , still skuming off the Froth , then Filtrated , after Evaporated over a gentle Fire , it was kept to Chrystallize , and appeared of a fixed Salt .
Going to a Soap House to know how it was used there , I had the following Account ; they mix 3/ 4 of Earth with 1/ 4 of Lime , and Dissolve the Composition in boiling Water ; where stirring it often with a Stick there floats a top a thick Brownish Substance , which Skumming ~ they preserve in Basons apart ; and this Skum is much richer then the Liquor underneath , yet both are used in making the Soap .
Into a large Copper Caldron they put fifty Kintals of Oil , applying a very hot Fire , which burns continually until the Soap is made .
When the Oil has boiled , they begin to throw in of the Skum , and sometimes of the Liquor from which the Skum was taken .
They often repeat this , throwing in of the Skum and Liquor for thirteen or fourteen Days , in which time the Soap is usually perfected .
The brownish Skum , and what is useful of the Liquor , Incorporating with the Oil , what is useless sinks to the bottom of the Caldron , where it is let out to make room for throwing in more .
The Water thus let out is again thrown upon a new Composition of Earth and Lime , but when the Liquor becomes wholly insipid , it is then judged to be exhausted : After thirteen or fourteen Days , when the Soap is finished , it is laded out of the Boiler , and laid upon a Lime Floor to dry .
They proportion two Load of Earth of five Kintals each , to fifty Kintals of Oil ; the Produce is between seventy and eighty Kintals of Soap .
The Earth is bought at a Dollar a Load , and the Soap when this Account was made , at 6 3/ 4 a Kintal .
There is employed in making Soap yearly at Smirna 10000 Kinatls of Oil .
Bringing Soap Earth employs 1000 Camels , every Day throughout the Year , or rather 1500 daily for eight Months ; the four Summer Months being too hot for Camels to Travel .
An ordinary Soap House produces a thousand Dollars a year clear Profit , communibus Annis .

