2 .
" Experiments on the section of the Glossopharyngeal and Hypoglossal Nerves of the Frog , and Observations of the alterations produced thereby in the Structure of their primitive fibres .
" By Augustus Waller , M.D. Communicated by Professor Owen , F.R.S. &amp;c. After describing the natural structure of the tubular fibres of the nerves , the author states the results which he observed to follow the section of the nerves of the frog 's tongue .
To this organ two principal pairs of nerves are distributed ; one of these , issuing from the cranium along with the pneumogastric and distributed to the fungiform papillae , is regarded as the glossopharyngeal ; the other , arising from the anterior part of the spinal cord , and passing through the first intervertebral foramen , the author ( following Burdach ) names the hypoglossal .
Section of the glossopharyngeal nerves does not cause any perceptible loss of motion or of common sensation , and this fact , together with its distribution to the fungiform papille , leads the author to consider this nerve as the nerve of tasting .
On the other hand , when the hypoglossal nerves are divided , the tongue is no longer sensible to mechanical irritation , and its motions are entirely abolished .
Simultaneous division of the right an(l left glossopharyngeal nerves is followed by the death of the animal in a few days , and the same effect ensues after division of both hypoglossals .
This result , which takes place more speedily in summer than in winter , the author is disposed to ascribe to a disturbance of the mechanical process of respiration , in which , as is well known , the muscles of the frog 's mouth and tongue take a large share .
To ascertain the changes which take place in the nerve-fibres after division of the trunks to which they belong , the operation was confined to the nerve of one side only , and the fibres of the uninjured nerve of the other side served for comparison .
These changes ensue more speedily , and go on more rapidly in summer than in winter , commencing usually in about five days .
The pulp contained in the tubular nerve-fibres , originally transparent , becomes turbid , as if it underwent a sort of coagulation , and is soon converted into very fine granules , partly aggregated into small clumps , and partly scattered within the tubular membrane .
These granules are at first abundant , and render the nerve-fibre remarkably opaque ; but in process of time they diminish in number , and , together with the enclosing membrane , at length disappear , so that at last the finest ramifications of the nerves which go to the papille , or those going to the muscular fibres of the tongue ( according to the nerve operated on ) , are altogether lost to view , in consequence of the destruction and evanescence of their elementary fibres .
The disorganization begins at the extremities of the fibres , and gradually extends upwards in the branches and trunk of the nerve .
The other tissues of the tongue remain unaltered .
When the cut ends of the nerve are allowed to reunite , the process of disorganization is arrested , and the nervous fibres are restored to their natural condition .
The author ascribes the disorganization and final absorption of the nerve-fibres to an arrestment of their nutrition caused by interruption of the nervous current , and considers his experiments as affording most unequivocal evidence of the dependence of the nutrition on the nervous power .

