The Boring of the Simplon Tunnel , etc. 29* Hughes Medal .
The Hughes Medal is awarded to Sir Joseph Wilson Swan , F.R.S. , for his invention of the incandescent electric lamp , and his other inventions and improvements in the practical applications of electricity .
Not as directly included in the award , should be mentioned his inventions in dry-plate photography , which have so much increased our powers of experimental-investigation .
The Boring of the Simplon Tunnel , and the Distribution of Temperature that ivas encountered .
By Feancis Fox , M.Inst .
C.E. ( Communicated by C. Y. Boys , F.R.S. Received January 6 , \#151 ; Read January 26 , 1905 .
) The construction of this great tunnel under the Swiss Alps , between Brigue in Switzerland in the valley of the Rhone , and Iselle in that of the Diveria in Italy , a distance of 19,730 metres , has been carried on upon such highly scientific lines , and has revealed such extraordinary results , that it has been thought desirable to submit them in the form of a communication to the Royal Society .
They are likely to prove of considerable value and importance as regards the thermal condition of the region underlying that portion of the surface of the earth .
It is not necessary here to refer to the splendid organisation of the enterprise , nor to the humane arrangements for the welfare of the men ; but the rapidity with which the drilling has been effected , and the advance-headings driven forward , as also the excellent ventilation provided , have enabled much more trustworthy results to be obtained than would otherwise have been the case .
The Brandt hydraulic drill , by which a daily advance of 5*48 metres ( 18 feet ) for months together , has been attained , has been described elsewhere ; but the fact of its rapid advance enables the temperature of the rocks to be recorded before the lapse of a considerable time during which the rocks would be cooling .
On the other hand , the very excellent system BO Mr. F. Fox .
The Boring of the Simplon Tunnel , etc. of ventilation , which has been provided , passes an enormous volume of fresh , air along the galleries , thus tending to produce a lowering effect in temperature .
During the trimestral period of July , August , and September , 1904 , the average volume of air introduced into the tunnel daily was as follows:\#151 ; From the Brigue portal ... ... 2,934,140 cub. metres From the Iselle ... ... ... 2,361,310 " Or a total of ... ... ... 5,295,450 " equivalent to 33*9 cub. metres per second at Brigue and 27*3 cub. metres per second at Iselle .
During this period the average temperature of the external air was 17'*5 C. , that of the travelling air in the advanced headings being from 27'*1 to 29'*7 C. As the advanced gallery was proceeded with , a series of holes were bored into the side of the tunnel , in a horizontal position , to a depth of 1*5 metres , at a distance apart of 1000 metres .
Into each hole was introduced a permanent thermometer , from which observations were made and results recorded .
It is not , of course , possible to place the thermometer in advance of the excavation , as it would be broken by the next " shot " in the blasting operations .
It is , however , placed in position in the side wall as soon after the boring machine has gone forward as is possible .
The effect of this , no doubt , is that a slight cooling of the rock occurs before the observation can be made , but this factor of error has been as far as possible allowed for in the diagram .
On the accompanying profile ( fig. 1 ) , which is drawn to natural scale , the squares being 1000 metres horizontal and vertical , is shown the position of the tunnel , with the height of the mountains above it throughout , and on the lower diagram are given the results of temperature observations , so that at a glance the heat curve may be compared with the corresponding mountain surface .
It will be observed that the maximum height of the Alps above the tunnel is 2135 metres ( 7005 feet ) , which is far greater than any depth previously attained ; the maximum temperature of the rocks is 54'*5 C. In order to show the rapid cooling of the rocks , so soon as perforation has taken place , I have selected four points on both sides , dated March , 1901 , 1902 , 1903 , 1904 ; the explanation of one will suffice for the remaining three .
March , 1901 Up to that date observations had been taken from the entrance at Brigue to a distance of 4693 metres , and these are represented SIMPLON TUNNEL 6 6 6 o o 6 b b b b o 'o vo in \lt ; r \gt ; o cvi \#151 ; a / i I ri A ) M I- " r* M 1*3 J k 4 / .
ii ( / I 1 / I ... .
1 0 if \ \ f \ \ \ \ s \ \#163 ; \\ \ n I 1 \#187 ; If 1 i i 1 i 1 Mi -5 \#163 ; \lt ; 5 \#163 ; g " | " g g o vD iO *o *vl \#151 ; 32 Mr. F. Fox .
Boring of the Simplon Tunnel , and [ Jan. 6 , by the thick top line on the chart .
But at that actual date , the readings between that point and the portal had been lowered by cooling , as represented by the " one dot and dash " line .
Similarly in March , 1902 , when the distance of 6884 metres had been reached , the readings are indicated by a " two dot and dash " line .
In March , 1903 , at a distance of 8930 metres , they are given by a " three dot and dash " line ; and in March , 1904 , at 10,140 metres , by a " four dot and dash " line .
At the southern or Iselle side of the Alps , it will be noticed that the temperature follows approximately the increasing altitude of the mountains , until a point is reached at about 2200 metres .
From that point forward as the tunnel advanced the heat began to fall off , indicating some probable change ; at about 4000 metres it fell rapidly , until at 4400 metres it attained the lowest point recorded throughout the tunnel , and the " Great Spring " of 800 litres per second ( 10,564 gallons per minute ) was struck .
The water when first encountered was under very high pressure , believed to be about 42 kilogrammes per square centimetre ( 600 lbs. to the square inch ) , but it now escapes under normal pressure , and with a temperature of about 13 ' C. 4 In consequence of the heat encountered in the extreme advanced headings under the centre of the Alps , resulting in high temperatures both in the air and in the water travelling along the tunnel from the " feeders , " the dotted line of March , 1904 , indicates a diminution in the cooling-off of the rocks on the north side between 2*6 kilometres and 8 kilometres ; and between 1 kilometre and 2*6 kilometres , the thermometers actually register higher figures than were encountered in the original driving of the tunnel .
In like manner on the south side between 0 kilometre and 4*4 kilometres the cooling-off has been reduced .
In considering the rise of the Earth 's temperature as progressive depths are attained from the surface , these phenomena at 4400 metres on the south side must be regarded as purely accidental , and as in no way affecting the general problem ; they must , therefore , be discarded and not be allowed to affect in any way the calculations or conclusions .
There are many other disturbing factors which prevent any really definite law being laid down : much depends upon the inclination of the strata , whether horizontal , inclined , or vertical ; whether synclinal , or anticlinal : the character of the rocks must also affect the problem considerably .
A point of some difficulty to ascertain , is the temperature which is to be assumed as existing near the surface in the high Alps .
Where perpetual the Distribution of Temperature encountered .
snow prevails , it doubtless acts as a protection , and prevents radiation ; and where snow lies during the long months of winter , the same results obtain to a modified degree .
Probably at a depth of 6 to 9 metres below the surface the temperature remains nearly uniform , and it will be safe to assume it to be zero Centigrade ( 32 ' F. ) .
As we have a total height of 2135 metres ( 7005 feet ) available , it will vitiate the results but to a very small extent , whether this be taken as 6 , 9 , or 12 metres .
But assuming 10 metres to be the depth at which uniformity is to be found , we then have 2125 metres as corresponding to a rise of temperature of 54'*3 C. ( or 97'*7 F. ) , giving a temperature gradient of 39 metres for 1 ' C. ( 71*5 feet for each degree Fahrenheit ) .
With the view to obtaining an average of the results , I have selected the altitudes and temperatures between 8 kilometres and 13 kilometres , and the temperature gradient thus obtained gives 37 metres per degree Centigrade , or 67*5 feet per degree Fahrenheit .
I was in hopes that I should have been able to report in this communication the successful and final perforation of the tunnel , but owing to the presence of very large " feeders " of hot water ( 46 ' C. ) encountered at 9141 metres from the southern entrance , progress has been retarded .
At this date ( December 22 ) , however , there remains only a distance of 203 metres to be traversed before the headings meet , and a through passage is expected early in 1905 , but this in no way modifies the temperature results given above .
VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; a D

