On the magnetic Attraction of Oxides of Iron .
By Timothy Lane , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 20 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Tranyas .
1805 , p. 281 .
] Mr. Lane having observed that hardened iron is not so readily attracted by the magnet as soft iron , was proceeding to make some experiments on the subject , -when he was led , by Mr. Hatchett 's paper on Magnetical Pyrites , &amp;c. , to examine what magnetical properties iron possessed when free from inflammable matter .
For this purpose he procured some of the precipitate sold at Apothecaries ' Hall under the name of Ferrum precipitatum , and which is prepared by adding purified kali to a solution of sulphate of iron .
Tlhis precipitate , the author says , has no magnetic particles ; nor , when exposed to a clear red heat , does it acquire any , except when smoke or flame have access to it .
The solar heat , when concentrated to the degree at which glass melts , does not render this oxide magnetic , provided it be protected by glass from the dust floating in the air ; if not so protected , many of the particles become magnetic .
Mr. Lane then rubbed various portions of the oxide , in a glass mortar , with different combustible substances , namely , coal , sulphur , charcoal , camphor , ether , alcohol , &amp;c. , but found the oxide was not thereby rendered magnetic , without the assistance of a degree of heat equal to that of melting lead ; with that degree , however , it became magnetic .
Hydrogen , when aided by a red heat , had the same effect .
Charcoal and cinders , well burant , were found to require a longer continuance of the heat , to have their full effect on the oxide , than dry wood , coal , or sulphur .
A single grain of camphor , dissolved in an adequate portion of alcohol , was found sufficient , when assisted by a red heat , to render all the particles of 100 grains of the oxide magnetic .
But such substances as are easily sublimed , will , by a continued application even of a low heat , quit the oxide , leaving it , as at first , unmagnetic .
Hence we may understand why Prussian blue , sulphurets , and ores of iron , containing inflammable matter , become magnetic by the agency of heat , and revert to their unmagnetic state if the heat is continued long enough to drive off the inflammable matter .
The intention of this paper , Mr. Lane says , is to prove that mere oxides of iron are not magnetic ; that inflammable substances do not render them magnetic until such substances are , by heat , chemically combined with them ; and that when the comb-ustible substance is again separated by heat , the oxides return to their unmagnetic state .

