On the Identity of Columbium and Tantalum .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 8 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 246 .
] The author having received specimens of the Swedish mineral tantalite , containing the metal called Tantalium , by Mr. Ekeberg , was desirous of ascertaining whether that metal might not be the same as columbium , which had been discovered a short time before by Mr. Hatchett ; and for that purpose lie procured some oxide of columbium from Mr. Hatchett , and also a fragment of the mineral in the British Museum , originally analysed by Mr. Hatchett .
He describes the external resemblance to be such , that one might be taken for the other ; but observes , that the columbite is rather more brittle than tantalite .
By analysis , also , he finds them to consist of the same three ingredients ; namely , a white oxide , iron , and manganese .
To separate these substances , the mineral is powdered and fused with carbonate of potash and a small proportion of borax .
The iron and manganese may then be dissolved , along with the salts employed , by muriatic acid , and the oxide of columbium or tantalium remains as a white powder for further trial of its properties .
Five grains of columbite being thus treated , left four grains of white oxide ; and the solution yielded three fourths of a grain of iron , and one fourth of a grain of manganese .
Five grains of tantalite , by the same treatment , left four grains and a quarter of oxide , half a grain of iron , and two tenths of a grain of manganese .
The white oxides obtained from each of these minerals appear to the author to have precisely the same properties .
They are each soluble by means of about eight parts of potash .
They are both very imperfectly soluble by means of soda .
They are both insoluble in nitric , muriatic , succinic , and acetic acids .
They are both very sparingly soluble in strong sulphuric acid while boiling ; but they are nevertheless both perfectly soluble in oxalic acid , in tartaric acid , or in citric acid .
They are both precipitated of an orange colour by infusion of galls , but are not precipitated by that re-agent if a considerable excess either of alkali or acid prevail in the solution .
As a further agreement in their properties , it is added , that neither of them is precipitated by prussiate of potash or by hydrosulphuret of potash .
From these experiments , although a great difference which subsists between the specific gravities of the two minerals cannot be very satisfactorily explained , the author is satisfied that the American and Swedish minerals , in fact , contain the same metal .

