I. " Photo-chemical Researches .
Part II .
Phenomena of Photo-chemical Induction .
" By Prof. BUNSEN of Heidelberg , and HENRY ENFTELD RoscoE , B , A. , Ph. D. Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received November 27 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) Chemical affinity , or the force which regulates the chemical combination of two bodies , is like all other forces , a certain definite quantity .
Hence it is erroneous to say , that under different circumstances the same body can possess different affinities ; more correctly we should say , that in the one case the bodies are able to follow the chemical attraction of their molecules , whilst in another case opposing forces render this combination impossible .
These opposing forces may be considered as resistances similar to those exerted in the passage of electricity through conductors , in the distribution of magnetism in steel , and in the conduction of heat .
We overcome these resistances when by agitation we increase the formation of a precipitate , or by insolation effect a decomposition .
We call the act by which these resistances to combination are lessened , and the formation of a chemical compound promoted , " chemical induction ; " and we specify this as photo-chemical , thermochemical , electro-chemical , or idio-chemical , according as light , heat , electricity , or pure chemical action is the force which promotes the combination .
The phenomena of photo-chemical induction are particularly interesting , as affording starting-points from which we may gain a knowledge of this mode of action of affinity .
That on exposing a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen to the light the action does not commence to its full extent at once , was observed by Draper in 1843 .
An explanation of this fact was given by the supposition that the chlorine underwent on insolation a permanent allotropic modification , in which state it possessed more than usually active properties .
This explanation is , as we shall show , erroneous , and the whole phenomenon is caused by the peculiar action to which we have given the name of photo-chemical induction .
When the standard mixture of chlorine and hydrogen is exposed to a constant source of light , no action is at first perceptible ; after a short time , however , the action becomes visible , and gradually increases until a constant maximum is reached .
Experiments made with different amounts of light from different luminous sources , showed that the times which elapsed from the beginning of the exposure until the maximum was obtained , varied very much , according to circumstances .
In one case the maximum action was reached in fifteen minutes , in others after an exposure of three and four minutes .
The first action was in one case visible after six minutes ' insolation , in others after one minute , whilst in some experiments a considerable action was observed in the first minute .
The condition modifying the action of the induction which we first examined , was the action of the mass of the insolated gas .
From various experiments , it was found that the duration of the induction increased with the volume of exposed gas ( by constant amounts of light ) , and curves have been drawn , represeriting the increase of the induction for the various volumes of gas employed .
We next examined the dependence of the duration of induction upon the amount of light to which a constant volume of gas was exposed , and experiment showed1 .
That the time necessary to effect the first action of the photochemical induction decreases with increase of light , and in a greater ratio than the increase of light .
2 .
That the time which elapses until the maximum is attained also decreases with increase of light , but in a much less ratio .
3 .
That the increase of the induction proceeds at first in an expanding series , attains a maximum , and then converges when the true mraximum action is attained .
The law regulating the increase of the induction by increase of light , we have rendered visible by curves .
The results of these experiments suggested the question , Is this condition of increased combining power , into which the mixture of chlorine and hydrogen passes by insolation , permanent , or is it confined to the time during which the gas is exposed to the light ?
In order to determine this question , the sensitive gas , which had stood for some time in the dark , was exposed to a constant source of light , and the time noted which elapsed before the maximum action was reached ; the apparatus was then darkened for one minute , and then again insolated , and the time watched until the maximum action was again observed .
These observations were repeated several times , each period of darkening being longer than the preceding .
Thus conducted , the experiment led to the important conclusion , that the resistance to combination overcome by the influence of the light is soon restored when the gas is allowed to stand in the dark .
Curves expressing the effect produced on induction by darkening , and by exposure to light , have been drawn .
We have explained the fact , that the mixture of chlorine and hydrogen does not combine in the dark , by the supposition of the existence of a resistance to combination which is overcome when the gaseous mixture is exposed to light .
This resistance to combination can be increased by various circumstances .
The presence of a very small quantity of foreign gas in the standard mixture of chlorine and hydrogen is sufficient to cause the resistance to be increased to a very great extent .
An excess of T-o3 of hydrogen over that contained in the normal gas , reduced the action from 100 to 38 .
In these experiments we have to do with the purest form of the so-called catalytic actions , to which the photo-chemical phenomena are closely related .
The quantitative estimation of the relations which exist in the phenomena of contact , between the mass of the substance the time and other modifying conditions , has not as yet been possible , owing to the absence of any case in which these relations are exhibited in their simplest form .
Our method of photo-chemical measurement points out a direction which promises to afford interesting results concerning these quantitative relations ; but in this communication we restrict ourselves to the consideration of these phenomena in so far as they influence the action of photochemical induction , intending on a future occasion to enter more fully into the new field of research indicated .
The contact action of foreign gases is still more strongly seen in the case of small quantities of oxygen .
This gas , when present in quantities amounting only to 1-050 of the total volume of gas , diminishes the action from 100 to 4-7 , whilst 1 3reduced the action from 100 to 1'3 .
Excess of chlorine acted in a similar manner , though not to so great an extent , lo of this gas reducing the action from 100 to 60-2 , and -oo from 100 to 41-3 .
On examining the effect of small quantities of hydrochloric acid gas upon the induction maximum , we found , fortunately for the accuracy of the indications of our instrument , that an amount of -L3o of this gas does not produce any appreciable effect on the action of the induction .
Uninsolated gas was found to act similarly on the normal mixture , the admission of o-o6of non-insolated gas reducing the action from 100 to 55 .
Curves have been drawn , representing the relation between the action and the amount of foreign impurity introduced .
Several series of experiments also showed that a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen , which was so nearly pure that no alteration of the maximum action was observable , was longer in attaining the maximum than the perfectly pure gas ; hence the duration of the induction serves as an exact measure of the absence of all foreign gases in the standard mixture .
An explanation of the laws of photo-chemical induction derived from the above-mentioned experiments , might easily be found in the assumption that the chlorine or the hydrogen , or both gases , undergo upon exposure to light a change similar to that between common and ozonized oxygen , or that these two gases can , under certain circumstances , be invested with active , and , under other circumstances , with passive properties .
If this hypothesis be true , each gas must undergo this peculiar modification when separately exposed to the action of the light .
That this is not the case was shown by the following experiment:-The two gases were separately evolved , and each led through a long glass tube , in which they could be separately exposed to the action of diffuse and direct sunlight .
After this exposure , the gases passed through a connecting tube into the apparatus , in which a constant source of light gave the duration of the induction .
Thus alternately insolating and darkening the separated gases , we observed the effect on the gases subsequently mixed and exposed to lamplight .
No difference was perceptible in the duration of the induction between the gases previously insolated and those evolved in the dark .
Hence we may conclude , that the light does not effect a permanent modification , either of the chlorine or hydrogen , but that the combination produced by the light must depend on photo-chemical action affecting only the increasing attractions of the chemically active molecules .
All the curves representing the increase of the induction under various conditions have a common form , and a point of flexure at which the maximuin increase occurs .
In order to determine whether this common property of the curves arises from the general mode of action of affinity , or whether the light plays an essential part , we have made experiments upon idio-chemical induction , i. e. action in which pure chemical attractions alone effect the alteration .
For this purpose we employed a dilute aqueous solution of bromine with tartaric acid , which mixture , when left to itself in the dark , undergoes decomposition , hydrobromic acid being formed .
By determi .
ning the amount of free bromine contained in the liquid at different times , we became acquainted with the rate at which the decomposition occurred .
Analysis showed that the amount of hydrobromic acid formed was not the same in equal spaces of time ; and curves representing this increase were found to have the form obtained for the photo-chemical induction .
Hence the cause of this maximum increase appears not to lie in any peculiar property of light , but rather in the mode of action of affinity itself .
One of the many interesting applications of the laws of photochemical induction relates to the phenomena of photography .
As an instance of this application we cite the remarkable observations of Becquerel , which induced him to assume the existence of certain rays which can continue , but not commence , chemical action .
In order to explain the phenomenon observed by the French physicist , we do not need to suppose the existence of a new property of light , as the facts are easily explained by the laws of photo-chemical induction ; and we are satisfied that these relations , which we have examined only in the case of chlorine and hydrogen , occur in a slightly modi .
fied form in other photo-chemical processes .
Having determined in this part of our investigation the most important phenomena of photo-chemical induction , we shall in the next section consider the laws which regulate the chemical action of light after the induction is completed .

