]\gt ; [ 309 ] XVII .
On the Relation between the Sun 's Altitude and the Chemical of Totai Daylight in a Cloudless Sky .
HENRY E. ROSCOE , F.R.S. , Professor of Ch emistr , in Owens College , Manchester , and T. E. THORPE , .D .
, Professor of Anderson 's University , Glasgow .
Received March 3 , \mdash ; Read March 81 , 1870 .
difficulty of securing in England a sufficient number of consecutive cloudless days to render it possible to determine with any degree of acculacy the relation existing between the sun 's altitude and the chemical intensity of total daylight , induced us to undertake a series of measulements on the west coast of Portugal , whele during the months of July and August the sk-y is generally cloudless .
The method of measurement employed was that described by one of us in previous communications to the Royal Society , founded upon an exact estimation of the tint which standard sensitive paper assumes when exposed for a given time to the action of daylight* .
The observations , the results of which are given in the following communication , were made in the autumn of 1867 , through the kindness of THolfAs CRESWELL , Esq. , at the Quinta do Estero Furado , situated on the flat table-land on the southern side of the , about miles to the south-east of Lisbon , lat. N. and W. The sensitive paperwas exposed in the plane of the horizon , the instrument .
placed upon a carefully levelled stand at the height of 4 feet 5 inches above the level of the ground in a sandy field having a clear horizon , the most considerable object in the neighbourhood being a house distant 130 paces to the west , the roof of which subtended an angle of with the plane of the paper .
All the experiments were made in the following order:\mdash ; 1 .
The chemical action of total daylight was observed in the ordinary manner .
2 .
The chemical action of the diffused daylight was then observed by throwing on to the exposed portion of the sensitive paper the shadow of a small blackened brass ball placed at such a distance that its apparent diameter seen from the position of the paper was slightly larger than that of the sun 's disk .
3 .
The chemical action of total daylight was again determined .
4 .
That of the diffused daylight was a second time ascertained .
The means of Observations 1 and 3 and of 2 and 4 were then taken .
The sun 's altitude was determined immediately before and immediately after the foregoing observations of chemical intensity , the altitude at the time of observation being ascertained by interpolation .
A box-sextant made by WORTHINGTON , of London , was employed with an * Bakerian Lecture , Philosophical Transactions , Part II .
p. 605 .
MESSRS .
ROSCOE AND THORPE ON THE RELATION artificial horizon of black glass , which was carefully levelled before each observation .
The watch used could be read to quarter seconds , and the Lisbon mean time was obtained by regulating the watch by means of the time-ball of the Lisbon Naval Arsenal , which falls at 1 , and aftelwards ascertaining the amount of the watch 's daily variation .
In cases in which the altitude could not be determined by experiment , it has been calculated from the following formula , in which represents the sun 's declination , represents the latitude of the place and represents the sun 's hour-angle .
It was necessary , in the first place , to ascertain what error was introduced into the determination of diffused daylight by any accidental variation in the distance of the brass ball from the sensitive paper .
A series of experiments were made with this object on August 8th , 1867 , at 9 , the blackenedball ; placed at distancesvarylng from 140 millims. to 230 millims. above the silvered paper .
These experiments showed that the ball placed at 140 millims. gave mean reading or Chemical Intensity , , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; consequently the height of the blackened ball may safely vary between 140 and 190 millims. without producing any appreciable error .
The following gives the elements of an observation , and may serve as a sample of the others , 134 in number , which were all carried out in a manner exactly similar , and form the data from which are derived the conclusions drawn in this paper .
August 5th , 1867 .
Determination of Altitude.\mdash ; Observed Calculated Observed time .
time .
double altitude .
altitude .
1st Observation .
' 2nd , , .
4 Determination of Chemical Intensity.\mdash ; Observed time to .
Calculated time to Nean .
Readings on calibrated strip .
L Total daylight 100 , 97 , 97 , 105 , 103 , 106 , 102 II .
Diffused .
110 , 108 , 112 , 116 , 116 , 117 , 108 , III .
Total .
104 , 100 , 100 , 97 , 100 , 102 , 107 , 105 , IV .
Diffused .
108 , 112 , 113 , 108 , 115 , 114 , 107 BETWEEN THE SUN'S LTITUDE AND CHEMICAL INTENSITY .
By reference to the calibration Table of the strip the following numbers were found to correspond to the above readings .
Time .
Sun 's altitude Observed Chemical Intensity.\mdash ; Direct sunlight .
Diffused light .
Total daylight .
The meteorological conditions of the time of observation were also carefully observed .
Clouds .
Fine breeze , S.S.W. Balometer at level 7 millims. One of the 134 sets of observations was made as neally as possible evely hour , and they thus naturally fall into seven groups , viz.\mdash ; ( 1 ) Six hours from noon , ( 2 ) five hours from noon , ( 3 ) fouT hours from noon , ( 4 ) three hours from noon , ( 5 ) two hours noon , ( 6 ) one hour from noon , and ( 7 ) noon .
Each of the first six of these groups contains two sepalate sets of observations , viz. those made before noon malked , and those made after noon and marked One of us has already pointed out* , from measurements made at ICew , that the mean chemical intensity of total daylight for hours equidistant from noon is the same .
That this result is a general one is fully borne out by the inspection of the following Tables , giving the results of 134 series of observations ; the single experiments made at the same hour being grouped togethel , and those of the hours equidistant from noon being placed side by side .
TABLE I. ( 1 .
) * Philosophical Transactions , 1867 , p. 558 .
TABLE BETWEEN THE SUN'S ALTITUDE AND CHEMIOAIi INTENSITY .
The results are more clearly seen in the following Table .
TABLE II .
The numbers contained in columns 3 and 4 of Table II .
give the relation between direct and diffuse daylight .
These sets ofnumbers , expressed graphically in terms of the altitude , are seen on Plate XXX .
fig. 3 ; the dotted curve indicating the intensity of the diffused light , the black curve that of the direct sunlight .
These two curves intersect at an altitude of , at which elevation , therefore , the place of equal chemical illumination occurs for a surface placed in the plane of the horizon .
The fact that the curve of direct sunlight cuts the base line at bears out the conclusion which one of us has eady announced , namely , that at altitudes below direct sunlight is robbed of almost all its chemically active rays .
The curves ( fig. 1 ) show the daily march of chemical intensity at Lisbon , as a mean of all the observations , compared with that at Kew for the preceding August , and at Para for the preceding April .
The number representing the mean chemical intensity at Kew is , at Lisbon 110 , and at Para of the intensity acting for twenty-four hours being taken as 1000 .
If we now arrange the observations according to the sun 's altitude , we have:\mdash ; TABLE IIL BBTWEEN TITUDE AND CHEMICAL INTENSITY .
Fig. 2 gives the graphical representation of the relation of the total chemical intensity as ordinate to the sun 's altitude as abscissa .
The relation between the altitude and chemical intensity for altitude above is here seen to be accurately represented by a straight line .
The position of the experimentally determined points are noted , and serve to show how closely they lie to the straight line .
In former communications*it has been shown that a similarrelation between altitude and chemical intensity of total daylight has been found to hold good at Heidelberg , Kew , and ; and that although the chemical intensity for the same altitude at different places and at different times of the year may greatly vary according to the ing transparency of the atmosphere , yet that the relation at the same place between altitude and intensity is always represented by a straight line .
Thus the mean intensities at Lisbom and Para for are and respectively , whilst for they are and .
That this variation in the direction of the straight line expressed by the constant in the formula , given in the paper last referred to , is due to the opalescence of the atmosphere , we have evidence of in the fact that , for equal altitudes , the higher intensity is always found where the mean temperature of the airis greater , as in summer , when we compare the same place at different seasons , or as we approach the equator , when we compare different places .
The first of these conditions of variation is clearly seen if we compare the Kew observations for the same altitudes , but for different times of the year .
The following Table clearly shows that the altitude in the warmer half of the year is invariably accompamed by a higher chemical action than that in the colder , and this is attributable to the varying opalescence , which is certainly a function of the atmospheric temperature , and is less marked as we approach the summer solstice or pass towards the equator .
Comparison of Chemical Intensities at Kew , It is interesting to observe the close agreement which exists between the measurements made at Lisbon with sensitive paper , and the luminous intensities calculated from observations made at Heidelberg by a totally different method .
In 1859 Professor BUNSEN , and one of us in Part .
of ' Photochemical Researches , ' gay curves of the * ROSCOE , Transactions , 1867 , p. 555 .
A comparison of the unit of measure there taken can unfortunately not be made with that used in the Lisbon experiments ; but ifwe reduce the observational results for Lisbon lat. N. and the calculated one for Naples lat. N. to a common measure .
by assuming that the action of the direct sunlight at noon is equal in both cases , and leduce the other points in the Naples curve in the same ratio , we obtain the two curves , fig. 4 , whilst the corresponding curves for Lisbon are given on fig. 4 , The correspondence between the results of the measurements above described and those made by a totally different method is further shown by the close coincidence of the " " phases of equal chemical illumination\ldquo ; for sun- and diffuse-light as determined by both methods .
In a former communicatio has been shown that in all places where the sun rises to a height of more than above the horizon the chemical action effected by the diffuse daylight exceeds that of the direct sunlight at first ; and that as the sun gradually rises a point is reached at which both sunlight and diffuse daylight produce exactly the same amount of chemical action , whilst beyond this point the effect of the sunshine is more powerful .
This phase of equal illumination was calculated from theoretical considerations , and the result was confirmed by experiment , the difference between the calculated and the experimental points of equality amounting in mean to about thirty-five minutes .
By reducing the chemical intensity of the direct sunlight in Table III .
to that which the sunlight would produce on a plane perpendicular to the incident rays , we find that the phase of equal chemical intensity in reality is one which lasts for some time , that it begins near the calculated altitude of , but that it continues for about an hour .
When , however , the sun reaches an elevation of the intensity of the sun 's perpendicular rays becomes greater than that of the total diffuse light acting on a horizontal surface .
* BUNSEN and ROSCOE , ' Photochemical Researches.\mdash ; Part IV Phil. Trams .
1859 , p. 915 .
xenAxlL '

