body separates , the formation of which is represented by the following equation : Co Hlo , N , O , +H 1H2 =C8 1H N , O , + C , H , 0 .
New Alcohol .
compound .
This new compound , Cs Ho N2 O , , is very difficultly soluble in boiling water , alcohol , and ether , and crystallizes in small white brilliant plates .
It is likewise disolved by solutions of caustic alkalies , but is again , however , separated by carbonic acid .
On adding a solution of silver salt to its aqueous or alcoholic solution ( neither of which has any action on vegetable colours ) , a white precipitate is formed .
Fuming nitric acid converts this body into a nitro-compound , crystallizing in honey-yellow prisms of the composition C8 H5 ( NO , )N , 0 , .
On treating the latter with sulphide of ammonium or with tin and hydrochloric acid , it is reduced and furnishes a basic amido-compound crystallizing in slightly yellowish-tinted needles , difficultly soluble in all neutral liquids .
Its composition is C8 H5 ( NH , ) N , 0 , .
Compounds of this amido-body with acids crystallize well generally , but are for the most part difficultly soluble .
Action of Ammonia on the Compound C , , H1 , N , O,.-On digesting the body for several days at 100 ?
C. in sealed tubes with alcoholic ammonia , it is gradually converted into a base , almost insoluble in water and difficultly soluble in boiling alcohol ; from this it crystallizes in brilliant nacreous plates .
Its composition agrees with the formula C , H , N3 O , and its formation takes place according to the equation C , o 1-lo N , O+ NH3 = Cs H7 N3 0+ C,6 H0 .
New base .
Alcohol .
This new base is monacid .
Its nitrate is especially characteristic , for it is almost insoluble in water and alcohol .
It separates out from very dilute solutions of the base in the form of small white plates on the addition of nitric acid .
Its platinum-salt crystallizes in thick yellow needles , and has the composition 2(C1 H7 N3 O ) , 2HC1 , Pt C14 .
The compounds just described may one and all be viewed as substitution products of anthranilic acid , viz.:Anthranilic acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... C7 H7 NO =C7 If NO .
IHO .
New ether ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
CO HIO N , 02 = C7 H ( CN ) NO .
C2 I1 , 0 .
Product of decomposition of the C H } NO -= 7 ( CN)NO .
HO former with 1C1 ... ... ... ... ... ... N 0 , =0 H ( NO ) NO.110 Nitro-compound ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... C8 H , ( N 02 ) N2 02=zC7 14 ( NO2 ) ( CN ) NO .
HO .
Amido-compound ... ... ... ... ... ... ... H ( N H O2)N OC7 H4 NI ( CN ) NO .
HO .
Base obtained from the ether by CCH N3 = C,7 H , ( CN)NO .
H2N .
the action of N11f3 ... ... ... ... ... 8 As I intend taking an early opportunity of considering the rational constitution of these bodies somewhat more filly , I content myself for the present with remarking that I am inclined to regard the base C8 H , N , 0 as the creatinine of the benzoic series ; it stands to anthranilic acid exactly in the same relation as creatinine " par excellence " does to sarcosine : C8 H7 N3 O. C4 H 7N3 O. Benzo-creatinine .
Creatinine .
C7 H7 NO2 .
C3 H17 NO2 .
Anthranilic acid .
Sarcosine .
Herr Neubauer has shown * that creatinine , when treated in a sealed tube with baryta water , undergoes the following change : C4 H , N3 0+H2 O-=C , H4 N , 02+NHI .
Creatinine .
Methylhydantoine. .
I consider it highly probable that the base C8 H7 N3 0 will split up in like manner with the formation of the above-described compound C8 H , N 0 , , according to the equation C8 H17 N3 O+ H2 0=CH N2 0+ NHII .
Indeed this latter compound exhibits great resemblance in its chemical deportment to the methylhydantoine of Herr Neubauer .
In conclusion , I should point out that the azodioxindol described by Herrn Baeyer and Knop in their paper on indigo-blue'* is isomeric with the before-mentioned compound , C8 H6 N2 O. These two bodies show , moreover , great similarity in other respects , so much so that I should feel inclined to view them as identical if their fusing-points did not differ essentially .
Herrn Baeyer and Knop state that the fusing-point of their azodioxindol is 300 ?
C. , while the compound I obtained fuses above 350 ?
C. Should it turn out , however , on further investigation that the two bodies are identical , the compound C8 HN 02 would have to be regarded as the first derivative of indigo which has ever been prepared synthetically , and which , like indigo-blue itself , contains eight atoms of carbon .
V. " On the Action of Cyanogen on Anthranilic Acid .
" By P. GRIEss , F.R.S. Received June 29 , 1869 .
Some time ago* I pointed out the action which takes place when cyanogen gas is passed into an alcoholic solution of amidobenzoic acid .
The principal product of this reaction is , as I have shown , a yellow compound of cyanogen and amidobenzoic acid of the formula C , H ( NH2 ) 0 , 2CN , which separates in large quantities as soon as the alcoholic solution of amidobenzoic acid is nearly saturated with cyanogen .
When anthranilic acid , a body isomeric with amidobenzoic acid , is submitted under the same condition to the same reagent , a totally different reaction takes place .
In this case the solution remains either perfectly clear , or only traces of a similar yellow compound are precipitated .
By allowing the alcoholic solution of anthranilic acid , saturated with cyanogen , to stand for several days , the acid is almost entirely converted into a new compound of the empirical formula C , , H , , N20 , ; two other new compounds ( an acid and an indifferent body ) are at the same time formed .
It is worthy of remark that none of these compounds are isomeric with any of the bodies which by the same process are formed from amidobenzoic acid .
Each of them belongs to a perfectly different type .
I propose on this occasion to treat only of the principal product of the reaction , viz. the compound Co HIo N2 02 .
It is prepared in the following manner .
An alcoholic solution of anthranilic acid is saturated with cyanogen gas and left to stand for about eight days .
The alcohol is then evaporated at a low temperature , and the crystalline residue washed several times with dilute solution of carbonate of ammonia , by which any traces of the new acid ( one of the by-products of the reaction ) are removed .
It is then further purified by recrystallization from alcohol with the addition of a little animal charcoal .
The indifferent body already referred to , which is very little soluble in alcohol , is thus separated .
The new compound , C1o HIo N2 0 , is then obtained in the form of white acicular crystals , which are very little soluble in boiling water , but dissolve readily in boiling alcohol and ether .
It fuses at 173 ?
C. , and can be distilled in small quantities without undergoing decomposition .
Its formation may be expressed as follows : C7 H7 NO + 2CN +C2 H16,0= C1 Ho N2 02+ CIN + H2 0 .
Anthranilic CyanoAlcohol .
New compound .
HydroWater .
acid .
gen .
cyanic acid .
According to this equation , alcohol as well as anthranilic acid and cyanogen take place in the reaction .
Confirmatory experiments which I have made show that the compound in question is really an ether .
Action of HIydrochloric Acid upon the Compound C1o H1o N2 02.-Ordinary hydrochloric acid dissolves this body , and when cold does not act upon it .
On boiling , however , speedy decomposition sets in and a new

