1880.1 Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
63 diopetalum .
Trollius europaea .
Actea spicata .
Caltha palustris .
Aquilegia vulgaris .
Campanula rotundifolia .
Dianthus Caryo-phyllus .
Brassica rapa , Lepidium sativum .
Medicago sativa , Oedrus Deodara .
Larix europaea .
Ephedra altissima .
Cyno-glossum officinale .
Spinacia oleracea .
b. Grains with crystalloids .
( a. ) Crystalloids soluble in saturated NaCl solution after treatment with alcohol or ether :\#151 ; Bertholletia excelsa ( type ) .
Adonis autumnalis .
iEthusa Cyna-pium .
Digitalis purpurea .
Cucurbita Pepo .
( / J. ) Crystalloids soluble in saturated NaCl solution after alcohol , but not after ether:\#151 ; Ricinus communis ( type ) .
Datura Stramonium .
Atropa Belladonna .
Elais guineensis .
Salvia officinalis .
Taxus baccata .
Pinus Pinea .
Cannabis sativa .
Linum nsitatissimum .
Viola elatior .
Ruta graveolens .
Juglans regia .
III .
Partially soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
a. Entirely soluble in 1 per cent. Na2C03 solution :\#151 ; Pulmonaria mollis .
Omphalodes longiflora .
Borago caucasica .
Myosotis palustris .
Clarkia pulchella .
b. Entirely soluble in dilute KHO .
( m. ) Grains without crystalloids:\#151 ; Anchusa officinalis .
Lithospermum officinale .
Echium vulgar .
Heliotropium peruvianum .
Lythrum Salicaria .
( f3 .
) Grains with crystalloids :\#151 ; Cupressus Lawsoniana .
Juniperus communis .
Euphorbia La-thyris .
II .
" On the Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
" By F. A. Dixey , B.A. Oxon .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1880 .
[ Plates 1 , 2 .
] From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , In a preliminary note on the ossification of the terminal phalanges of the digits , * it was stated that the diaphyses of the ungual phalanges differed in their mode of ossification from those of other long bones .
The object of the present paper is to give an account of the process of * Ante , vol. 30 , p. 550 .
64 Mr* F .
A- Dixey .
[ Nov. 25r ossification in these phalanges , the peculiar features of which have been found , with slight modifications , to remain constant throughout the whole series of Vertebrata .
It will be remembered that all long bones are at an early stage preformed m cartilage , and that simultaneously with the calcification of the cartilaginous shaft a deposit of true bone takes place in the investing subperiosteal tissue ; so that at a certain stage in development the so-called " primary " or cartilage bone of the shaft is surrounded by a hollow cylinder of " secondary " or true bone .
An irruption of the-osteoblastic subperiosteal tissue into the cartilage then takes place , which results eventually in the absorption of the primary bone and its replacement by true osseous tissue , to be in its turn alternately absorbed and renewed so long as the process of growth goes on .
Cartilage that is about to undergo calcification presents certain characteristic appearances ; the cells with their cell-spaces become larger , flatten out , and usually show a tendency to arrange themselves-in parallel rows , between which , if the change has already been in progress for some time , the lines of calcification may be seen advancing .
But whereas in the long bones as a whole , * including the first and second phalanges of the digits , the alteration of the cartilage cells , followed by calcification of the matrix , appears first in the centre of the shaft and spreads thence pari passu towards the two extremities ; in the ungual phalanx it is first seen to arise in the tip or distal extremity of the cartilage , from which point it spreads gradually backwards towards the base of the phalanx ( figs. 2 , 3 ) .
Similarly the subperiosteal deposit of membrane bone in all other cases begins as a thin and narrow ring surrounding the shaft and placed midway between the two extremities , that is to say , in direct relation with the spot where the cartilage-first begins to calcify ; in the ungual phalanx , however , , still preserving its relation with the point of commencing calcification in the cartilage , the deposit of subperiosteal bone first appears as a thin layer closely applied to the tip of the cartilage and fitting over it like a cap. The ring or hollow cylinder of bone formed in ordinary cases enlarges in two ways , becoming thickened by the continual deposition of new osseous tissue on its outer surface , and at the same time growing at its edges towards the extremities of the shaft , thus accompanying along the outer surface of the cartilaginous diaphysis * Dec. 9 .
Further observations have shown that the received account as given above requires some modification .
In the ordinary phalanges , which differ from most other long bones by having only one epiphysis , the changes accompanying the^ calcification of the cartilage do not go on in precisely the same manner towards each extremity .
The well-known lines of advancing calcification which run between rows of single cells parallel with the axis of the shaft , are in the ossifying phalanx only visible towards the proximal end ; that is to say , the end which will be crowned by the future epiphysis .
As might be expected , there is no difference in this respect between the proximal ends of the last and of the other phalanges .
1880 .
] Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
65 the changes that are taking place within ; the whole process resulting in the assumption by the bony cylinder of the form of a dice-box with both ends open , and the median constriction partially or entirely filled in from the outside .
Subject to its peculiar conformation , the growth of the bony layer in the ungual phalanx is analogous to the foregoing process .
A thickening takes place by the addition of new bone to the outer surface of the cap , and simultaneously with this its edges grow backwards along the cartilage from the tip towards the base ( in the same direction as that previously taken by the process of cartilage calcification ) , so that the cap becomes deeper and deeper , and finally reaches a stage in which it may be compared to a thimble fitting over the cartilaginous phalanx and enclosing it almost up to its base ( see figs. 1 , 2 , 3,4 , p , p ) .
The deposition of new bone along the outer surface of this cap or thimble may take place relatively much more quickly at the summit than at the sides , so that an expansion is formed , which may be of considerable size , and which no doubt bears a relation to the conformation of the future nail , hoof , or claw ( see fig. 2 ) .
The next stage in the development of the bone is marked by the irruption of the subperiosteal tissue with blood-vessels and osteoblasts into the shaft at or near the point where the cartilage first began to calcify .
This point in all other cases will be found about the middle of the shaft , but in the ungual phalanx , as has been seen , at the tip .
In fig. 1 , which represents a section in the sagittal plane through the growing ungual phalanx of a foetal cat , the irruption is seen to have taken place at a point just below the tip on its plantar aspect , and this would appear to be the most usual locality .
In figs. 2 , 3 , representing similar sections from the pig and the human subject at an earlier stage of development , the points at which the invasion will probably begin are indicated by the letters i , i. The advance of the osteoblastic tissue into the cartilaginous diaphy sis , its gradual absorption of the primary bone , and the laying down of true osseous tissue in its stead , follow in all cases the direction already taken by the previous process of calcification ; that is fo say , in other long bones from the middle towards the two extremities , in the ungual phalanx from the tip towards the base .
Thus , to sum up , in the development of the ungual phalanx the three processes of cartilage calcification , growth of the subperiosteal intramem-branous bone , and deposition of true bone in the shaft along the line of advance of the osteoblastic ingrowth , take the distal extremity of the shaft instead of its middle for their starting-point , and proceed in one uniform direction from tip to base , instead of advancing in two contrary directions at the same time .
Hence it seems that the distal extremity of the ungual phalanx corresponds morphologically with the centre of the diaphy sis in other long bones .
At a period of growth subsequent to the complete ossification of the diaphysis , an epiphysis forms , as is well known , in the cartilaginous 66 Mr- F- A- Dixey .
[ Nov. 25 , head which still remains at the proximal end of the phalanx , and this , becomes united to the shaft in the usual manner .
The process of ossification in the terminal phalanx having now been described in general terms , it only remains to notice certain special points of interest that have come under observation during the investigation of the subject .
It should be first mentioned that the peculiarity described appears to be universal , the same general description applying to any terminal phalanx , whether taken from the manus or pes , and whether belonging to a fully functional or to a mere aborted digit , such as the second and fifth in the manus of the pig .
An examination of the growing bone with a view to this point would probably suffice to decide whether the phalanx missing from certain digits in the manus of Pteropus and other bats is really the third ( as described , see Flower , " Osteology of the Mammalia , " 1876 , p. 264 ) , or whether it may not rather be the-second .
A comparison of a series of specimens taken from man , the mole , the rat , the pig , and other animals , seems to indicate that the primitive cartilaginous terminal phalanx exists normally as a subcylindrical bar of comparatively simple conformation ; * while the remarkable modifications of shape which the adult phalanx assumes throughout the whole range of the mammalia are due to the superstructure erected on this basis by purely intramembranous ossification in the form of the subperiosteal cap , and of what may be called the ungual expansion at its summit .
Thus , in the mole , the primitive cartilaginous terminal phalanx presents no distinctive character ; it resembles in shape the cartilage of the young pig , as seen in fig. 3 , but is relatively a little shorter and thicker .
When , however , the subperiosteal growth begins , it is seen that a separate centre for the accumulation of the bony deposit has established itself on each side of the tip of the phalanx , , the two being connected by a film of bone over the tip itself , so that the resulting cap has two summits instead of one .
At a later stage these two summits are found to have increased considerably in height and thickness , and to have encroached upon and partly filled up the interval between them .
In this way the growth of the bifid cap proceeds until , after the normal changes , the ungual phalanx of the manus .
in the adult mole presents a highly modified appearance , being unusually long and deeply cleft at its extremity , thus contrasting strongly with the cartilaginous basework on which it was fashioned .
Again , in the cat and other carnivora , the hood-like expansion of bone which in the adult is reflected over the base of the claw must owe its origin entirely to a process of intramembranous ossification , since no trace * This shape is liable to a slight modification from the growth of the cartilage at its proximal end after the process of calcification has already begun at the tip .
See description of fig. 2 .
1880 .
] Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
67 of it is discoverable in the specimen drawn in fig. 1 , in which the cartilaginous diaphysis has received its final development , and is already in process of being destroyed .
That this structure makes its first appearance at a very late stage in the development of the phalanx , is shown by the fact that it had not yet begun to be formed in another cat embryo 8 centims. long .
An examination of the process of growth in the long tapering ungual phalanges of certain seals might show that for the greater portion of their length they were formed entirely from the ungual expansion of the subperiosteal cap , and had never pre-existed as cartilage .
Illustrations of the simple outline of the primitive cartilaginous diaphysis , and of the variety of the forms that may be assumed by its bony superstructure , are afforded by figs. 2 , 3r in neither of which has any absorption of the cartilage yet taken place .
In fig. 3 , taken from a foetal pig , the young phalanx , which is destined to support a hoof , is seen to have its subperiosteal cap greatly enlarged on the palmar aspect .
As an example of the process in birds , the terminal phalanges of the second and third digits of the manus , and of all the digits of the pes , were examined in a young sparrow .
The calcification of the cartilage and its attendant changes , and the formation of the subperiosteal cap , were seen to be starting from the tip , and proceeding in exactly the same manner as already described ; specimens , however , to show the invasion of the cartilage by osteoblastic tissue could not at that time be conveniently obtained .
Among reptiles , a yonng alligator showed the same processes with great clearness ; but it was again impossible to procure a specimen sufficiently advanced to exhibit the course of the osteoblastic irruption .
An interesting modification of the process is furnished by the amphibia .
Fig. 4 represents a section in the sagittal plane through the last two phalanges of the middle digit of the fore-foot of the Proteus .
In this specimen , which there was every reason to suppose adult , no irruption whatever of osteoblastic tissue has taken place in the last two phalanges , which accordingly consist each of a core of partly calcified cartilage ; in the case of the penultimate phalanx surrounded by the hollow cylinder or dice-box of true bone already alluded to , in the case of the terminal phalanx plunged into a deep receptacle , also of true bone , which is in fact the subperiosteal cap.* Thus a state of things which in the higher ~Vertebrata belongs only to a temporary stage in embryonic development , is in the Proteus persistent throughout life .
The growth and calcification of the cartilage and the formation of the subperiosteal layer of bone proceed , it may be assumed , in the regular manner ; but having advanced so far the process stops* .
* From the only specimens procurable , no conclusions could be arrived at with regard to the condition of the proximal phalanx of the digit , or indeed of any other of the bones .
, \lt ; 68 Mr. F. A. Dixey .
[ Nov. 25 , and the final stages marked by the invasion of the calcified cartilage .and its replacement by true bone are in these two phalanges never reached at all.* [ Note.\#151 ; Another instance of arrested development in the digit of the Proteus is afforded by the interphalangeal joint represented in the same figure .
The cartilage , with a slight alteration m the size and relative number of its cells , is seen to be quite con-tinuous between the heads of the two phalanges , nor does it exhibit the least sign of an articular cavity .
The movement allowed by such ; a joint must be limited , but that some does take place is rendered probable by the position of the tendons seen at and Specimens of intramembranous ossification in the Proteus are remarkable as showing with great distinctness the original deposition of bone in the form of globules , after a manner strictly comparable with the growth of dentine .
] In the newt the ossification of the terminal phalanx proceeds in the same way as in the Proteus , and is arrested at the same stage ; but the penultimate phalanx undergoes the osteoblastic invasion , and is remodelled in true bone in the usual way.f The specimens from which the figures and descriptions were taken were all hardened in strong spirit , most of them having been previously decalcified in weak chromic or saturated picric acid .
They were then imbedded by the cacao-butter method and cut by hand or by Leiser 's microtome .
The greater number were stained as sections with magenta , but some were stained in bulk with logwood , carmine , or both , before being subjected to the process of imbedding .
The best results were obtained by the employment of a freshly-prepared solution of magenta in oil of cloves .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Figure X. Section in the sagittal plane through the terminal phalanx of a digit in the pes of a foetal cat 4 centime , long .
Decalcified in chromic acid and stained with magenta , c , the unaltered cartilage of the base of the phalanx ; towards the tip the cells are seen to be assuming the form and * This condition resembles one that is liable to occur in the costal cartilages of the mammalia , where a layer of membrane bone ( in these cases subperichondrial ) is found enveloping a core of cartilage which may or may not be calcified .
+ Dec. 9.\#151 ; The uncertainty that prevails respecting the homologues of the limb-elements in fishes , renders it difficult to say how far this class can be brought under the rule above laid down for the higher vertebrates .
In connexion with this subject , which is still under investigation , the following facts are noticeable:\#151 ; ( I. ) That in the limbs of all fishes which possess these appendages there is found at an early stage a cartilaginous endoskeleton , which may persist as such , or undergo various degrees of subsequent ossification .
( 2 .
) That to this set of elements is superadded in many fishes a series of dermal deposits of bone ( with or without lacunae ) , the local relation of which to the endoskeletal elements corresponds with that of the subperiosteal bony growth to the terminal cartilaginous phalanx in the higher vertebrates .
1880.1 Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
69 arrangement characteristic of approaching calcification $ at cc the calcification is complete , a marks the furthest point yet reached by the osteoblastic invasion , where secondary areolae containing numerous osteoblasts have been formed by the partial demolition of the calcified cartilage ; and at i the ingrowth of the subperiosteal tissue with bloodvessels and osteoblasts is seen to have begun close to the tip on its plantar aspect , and to be spreading back towards the base of the phalanx , having effected the total absorption of the primary bone in the neighbourhood of the point of invasion ; p , the subperiosteal cap of intramembranous bone , at this stage thin and incomplete ; osteogenic fibres and osteoblasts are seen along its outer border , and lacunae in its substance , pp , layer of bone marking the former limit of the subperiosteal cap , which has suffered to a great extent from absorption , and is being remodelled on a larger scale , ft , et , flexor and extensor tendons , some fibrous bundles from which are seen to be prolonged into the growing bone , iv , blood-vessels in the osteoblastic tissue .
[ Magnified about 85 diameters .
] Figure 2 .
Sagittal section through the terminal phlanax of the fifth digit of the right manus of a human foetus about the fourth month .
Decalcified in picric acid , stained with magenta , c , unaltered cartilage ; cc , calcified cartilage .
At n , a region occurs where the cartilage presents unusual characteristics , the cell-spaces being smaller and the matrix more deeply stained than in the areas on either side , which show the more typical appearance of primary bone , p , the subperiosteal cap of intramembranous bone , with osteogenic fibres and osteoblasts .
Many fibrous bundles , continuous with the tendons et and ft , are seen as in the last figure to be prolonged into the bone .
The ungual expansion at the summit of the cap consists of two masses ( d and pa ) , separated by a notch , i , which may represent the point of future irruption .
A series of sections from the same digit shows that what appears here as a notch is really a pit sunk in the middle of the ungual expansion .
Of the two masses ( d and pa ) , the one towards the dorsal surface ( d ) is characterised by possessing in proportion far fewer lacunae with their included bone-cells than the protuberance ( pa ) on the palmar side .
This distinction applies also to the dorsal and palmar sides of the cap as far as they extend .
In this specimen no irruption has yet taken place , and the cartilage preserves its original form .
The conical contour indicated by the figure is due to the fact that expansion can only take place in cartilage as yet untouched by the process of ossification , its growth when this begins being checked either by the calcification of its own matrix or by the obstacle opposed to it by the investing subperiosteal layer of bone .
Hence , only the proximal area of the cartilaginous phalanx is capable of lateral expansion , and since the growth of the cartilage continues for a long time after the beginning of the process of ossification at its tip , the conical shape seen in this and other instances results .
The same cause produces the well-known hourglass form of the cartilage seen during the growth of other long bones .
[ Magnified 65 diameters .
] Figure 3 .
Sagittal section through the terminal phalanx of one of the middle digits of the manus of a foetal pig 6 centims. long .
Decalcified in picric acid ?
stained with magenta , c , unaltered cartilage ; cc , calcified cartilage , p , subperiosteal cap of bone , which is greatly thickened on the palmar aspect of the phalanx .
A deep cleft is seen separating the greater bulk VOL. XXXI .
G 70 Mr. F. A. Dixey .
[ Nov. 25 , of this part of the cap from a thin layer of bone , pp , which is closely adherent to the cartilage ; in the interval a large blood-vessel is seen cut across , and a smaller branch runs up towards i , which is near the point where the osteoblastic irruption will in all probability begin .
Other blood-vessels are seen at by .
This section represents very nearly the same stage in ossification as fig. 2 .
[ Magnified about 85 diameters .
] Figure 4 .
Sagittal section through the last two phalanges of the middle digit of the manus of Proteus anguinus .
c , unaltered cartilage ; cc , cartilage calcified , but exhibiting no other change .
In the terminal phalanx the distal extremity of the cartilaginous core is seen to be narrowed down to a single row of cells with the intervening matrix .
pie subperiosteal cap of bone , b , cylinder or dice-box of bone enveloping the shaft of the penultimate phalanx .
Z , Z , lacunas .
jy interphalangeal joint .
ei9 ft , extensor and flexor tendons .
This specimen was stained with magenta , but not decalcified , for which reason the bony tissue appears light and transparent , instead of being deeply stained , as in the preceding figures .
The permanently calcified cartilage shows no alteration in the arrangement or size of the cells , which in this instance are remarkably large and regular in form .
The animal was believed to be fully adult .
[ Magnified about 85 diameters .
] ( Received October 27 , 1880 .
) The fact that the process of ossification in the terminal phalanges begins at the distal extremity , and advances towards the base , has been observed as regards the human foetus , by M.M. Rambaud and Renault ( " Origin et Developpement des Os , " Paris , 1864 ) .
After describing the order in which the first and second rows of phalanges are ossified in the hand , they continue , " De meme pour les troisiemes , ou elle ( i.e. , l'ossification ) debute par le rebord ungueal " ( p. 214 ) .
In speaking of the foot , their language is more explicit , " Les troisiemes phalanges commencent a s'ossifier par l'extremite anterieure , puis de la l'ossification s'etend verse l'extremite posterieure , laissant toujours un appendice cartilagineux qui se transform en 6piphyse " ( p. 240 ) .
These authors , however , make no attempt to describe the process , nor to determine how far it is participated in by the cartilage and the superiosteal membrane respectively ; neither do they mention the ungual expansion , or the enveloping cap. Moreover , the statements already quoted from the text of their work are entirely ignored in the plates , where in every figure that contains a representation of growing phalanges , and even in the figures especially referred to as illustrative of the above-quoted statements , the terminal phalanx is made to exhibit no difference whatever from the rest in its mode of ossification .
For instance , in Plate XXI , fig. 1 , it is drawn with a very evident cartilaginous head at each extremity ; yet this figure , in the words of the authors themselves , " represent exactement l'etat de l'ossification de la main a la naissance .
" ( Ibid. , p. 215 .
) Pi*ac TLoy So\amp ; Vc WBi : We\amp ; b , No *rmcuir M Co. ~lz\#163 ; h. Dixey .
Pvoc .
Roy .
Soe- .
Fig .
3- \Vf ; *\#187 ; ' , f : ; 5 , J# %$\#166 ; !
Bj ... . .
UWfeili 1 imP\#174 ; i* B\#166 ; Vi B : : / Klk \| MV #fllk ' pi|| !
S\#187 ; .# m a-lke\#174 ; \#166 ; Hr .
\#166 ; \#166 ; few jjm mF JR Um^KKk ' MSp fc mm/ %'\#171 ; \gt ; f 1 Fi qA .
W*st , NtwmxxM .
8ft CcfUJ^h'\gt ;

