66 Prof. Owen on the Genus Phascolomys , [ Dec. 7 , Transactions ( continued ) .
Turin:\#151 ; Regio Osservatorio .
Atlante di Carte Celesti .
Oblong .
The Observatory .
Utrecht:\#151 ; Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut .
Neder-landsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor 1869 , Deel2 ; 1870 , Deel y 4|-0\lt ; The Institute .
Vienna : K. K. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus .
Jahrbiicher von Carl Jelinek und Carl Fritsch .
Neue Folge .
Band Y. 4to .
Wien 1870 .
The Institution .
Plaster Bust of Martin Folkes , P.R.S. ; also Plaster Bust of Benjamin Franklin , F.R.S. Presented by Earl Stanhope , F.R.S. December 7,1871 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed the following Members of the Council to be Vice-Presidents :\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Francis Galton .
Sir John Lubbock .
Sir James Paget .
The Earl of Rosse .
Sir Edward Sabine .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part VI .
Genus colomys , Geoffr .
" By Prof. Owen , F.R.S. Received September 14 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author premises a reference to former ones on the Osteology of existing Marsupialia , in the * Transactions of the Zoological Society , ' and to his * Catalogue of the Osteological Series in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , ' in which are defined cranial characters serving to distinguish existing species of the genus , Geoffr .
; and after showing , in subsequently received materials , the kind and extent of variety of such characters in the same species , he proceeds to apply the knowledge so gained to the determination of some fossil remains of species of Wombat , similar in size to the known existing kinds .
1871 .
] Mr. G. Gore on the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
67 The extinct Phascolomys Mitchelli , indicated by remains brought to England in 1835 by Sir Thomas Mitchell , C.B. , the discoverer of the bone-caves of Wellington Valley , Australia , is determined by specimens subsequently obtained by Prof. Alex .
M. Thomson and Gerard Krefft , Esq. , from the same caves .
A second species , distinguished by characters of the nasal bones , is called , after its discoverer , Phascolomys Krefftii .
Modifications of the lacrymal , maxillary , and palatal bones in the existing kinds of Wombat are also applied to the determination of the fossils : specimens from the freshwater deposits of Queensland are thus shown to belong to the species , Phascolomys Mitchelli , originally founded on fossils from the breccia-caves of New South Wales .
The author next proceeds to point out the characters of the mandible in existing Wombats available in the determination of extinct species of Phascolomys .
On this basis he defines specimens which he provisionally refers to his Phascolomys Krefftii .
He then points out the mandibular characters of Phascolomys Mitchelli , and shows that the existing Phascolomys latifrons was represented by mandibular fossils from the breccia-caves of Wellington Valley .
Proceeding next to the description of fossil mandibular remains of the genus Phascolomys , from the freshwater deposits of Queensland , the author defines Phascolomys Thomsoni , Phase , and Phase , parvus .
The latter , seemingly extinct , species is markedly inferior in size to any of the known existing species .
An account of the extinct kinds of Wombat , exceeding in size the existing species , will be the subject of a succeeding communication .
The present is illustrated by subjects occupying seven plates and eight woodcuts , all the figures being from nature and of the natural size .
II .
" On the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received September 1 , 1871 .
In the following experiments a number of stout tubes of refractory glass of the annexed shape were employed .
C d ) * FULL SIZED SECTION OF GLASSrTUBE .
Each tube was closed at one end , and had a flanged mouth at the other .
The limb A was l-^ inch long , the limb B 2 inches , and C 7 inches .
In making the experiments , each tube was first filled , to an extent of 5^ inches of its length , with highly dried crystals of mercuric cyanide ; a small fragment of asbestus* was then pushed tightly against the end of the cyanide by means of a thin rod of gutta percha , and the bend of the tube cleaned by means of a slender brush .
A number of taper plugs of gutta * This may be dispensed with if the mercuric cyanide is perfectly dry .

