Account of some Experiments on the Torpedo electricus , at LaRochelle .
By John T. Todd , Esq. Communicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read December 5 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 32 .
] Having upon a former occasion submitted to the Royal Society some experiments and observations on the Torpedo electricus , the author is now induced to offer a continuation of his researches ; and in the present communication describes a series of experiments undertaken with a view of ascertaining whether that animal possesses any power either of exciting the electrical organs , or of interrupting their action independent of the large system of nerves , by which they are directly supplied .
The commencement only of this investigation is now submitted to the Society , the author having been deterred from its completion by untoward circumstances .
His experiments were performed immediately after the fish was taken , and while it was vivacious and active .
When the lateral cartilages and all their appertaining muscles were divided , the shocks seemed as potent as before such operation .
Neither were the powers of the electrical organ sensibly diminished by removing its superior surface , nor by making a deep vertical incision into it .
Even when one half of each electrical organ was removed , the power of giving shocks was retained by the remainder .
These experiments were performed on two torpedos ; the one eight , and the other eighteen inches in length .
The results were in all main points similar ; but the smaller fish became , as might have been expected , most speedily exhausted .
In a third torpedo , between nine and ten inches long , an incision was made round the circumference of both organs , so as to leave no attachment between them and the animal , except by the nerves ; but the power of giving shocks was not impaired by this operation .
The author remarks that the nerves supplying the electrical organs of the torpedo arise exclusively from the medulla oblongata , notwithstanding the long course which some of them take before they reach the organs .
The torpedo called by the lower orders in France la Tremble , is abundantly taken between the mouths of the Seine and the Garonne , and forms an article of food among the poorer inhabitants ; who , however , carefully avoid the electric organs , which they consider as noxious .

