Connective Tissue , Nerve , and Muscle .
Fig. 14 .
Elastic fibres with cells .
Section from gold preparation of skin of adult rabbit treated by concentrated acetic acid .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 15 .
Fibres from the ligamentum nuchse of a three-days-old foal .
Gold preparation .
The nuclei and remains of the protoplasm of the cell stained .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 16 .
Ligamentum nuchse of three-days-old foal stained in gold and haematoxylm .
The central canal of the fibres indicated by the hsematoxylin .
3 .
VELI .
Tube out .
Fig. 17 .
Fibre from the same preparation as fig. 15 .
1 .
XII .
Tube out .
Fig. 18 .
Cells from the fibres of the sciatic nerve of the frog .
Isolated by the saturated solution of potash .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
Fig. 19 .
Nerve-fibre from the sciatic nerve of the mouse .
Treated by absolute alcohol , dyed with haematoxylin , and the excess of colour removed by acetic acid .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Plate XI .
Fig. 20 .
Perimysium of a muscular fibre of frog stained in haematoxylin .
Flat cells seen .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
Fig. 21 .
Muscle of mouse subjected to prolonged action of warm potash solution .
The cells on the sarcolemma indicated .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 22 .
Flat cells from the sarcolemma of muscular fibre of ox .
Isolated by pro-* longed action of warm potash solution .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 23 .
Muscular fibre of mouse treated by solution of potash .
The holes in the sarcolemma seen .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 24 .
Muscular fibre of frog treated by solution of potash .
Canals indicated by nuclear vacuoles .
3 .
VIII .
Tube out .
Fig. 25 .
Muscular fibre of frog .
Gold preparation .
Sarcolemma rent longitudinally and flattened .
Septa dividing muscular substance visible .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
Fig. 26 .
End view of muscular fibre of frog .
Gold preparation .
Stellate spaces with nuclei and processes of branched cells , having the signification of elastic fibres , between the bundles .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
Fig. 27 .
Muscular fibre of frog .
Gold preparation .
The fibrillae separated by teasing into bundles , between which long narrow flat cells are seen .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
Fig. 28 .
Muscular fibre of frog .
Gold preparation .
The central cavity seen much enlarged by the astringent action of the gold .
3 .
VII .
Tube out .
" On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
" By Prof. Osborne Reynolds .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 18 , 1874* .
My object in this paper is to offer explanations of some of the more common phenomena of the transmission of sound , and to describe the results of experiments in support of these explanations .
The first part of the paper is devoted to the action of wind wpon sound .
In this part of the subject I find that I have been preceded by Professor Stokes , who in 1857 gave precisely the same explanation as that which occurred to me .
I have , however , succeeded in placing the truth of this explanation upon an experimental basis ; and this , together with the fact that my work upon this part of the subject is the cause and foundation of what * Bead April 23 , 1874 .
See anti , p. 295 .
VOL. XXII .
Prof. O. Reynolds the I have to say on the second part , must be my excuse for introducing it here .
In the second part of the subject I have dealt with the effect of the atmosphere to refract sound upwards , an effect which is due to the variation of temperature , and which I believe has not hitherto been noticed .
I have been able to show that this refraction explains the well-known difference which exists in the distinctness of sounds by day and by night , as well as other differences in the transmission of sound arising out of circumstances such as temperature ; and I have applied it in particular to explain the very definite results obtained by Professor Tyndall in his experiments off the South Poreland .
The Effect of Wind upon Sound is a matter of common observation .
Cases have been known in which , against a high wind , gUns could not be heard at a distance of 550 yards* , although on a quiet day the same guns might be heard from ten to twenty miles .
And it is not only with high winds that the effect upon sound is apparent ; every sportsman knows how important it is to enter the field on the lee side even when the wind is very light .
In light winds , however , the effect is not so certain as in high winds ; and ( at any rate so far as our ears are concerned ) sounds from a small distance seem at times to be rather intensified than diminished against very light winds .
On all occasions the effect of wind seems to be rather against distance than against distinctness .
Sounds heard to windward are for the most part heard with their full distinctness ; and there is only a comparatively small margin between that point at which the sound is perceptibly diminished and that at which it ceases to be audible .
That sound should be blown back by a high wind does not at first sight appear to be unreasonable .
Sound is known to travel forward through or on the air ; and if the air is itself in motion , moving backwards , it will carry the sound with it , and so retard its forward motion\#151 ; just as the current of a river retards the motion of ships moving up the stream .
A little consideration , however , serves to show that the effect of wind on sound cannot be explained in this way .
The velocity of sound ( 1100 feet per second ) is so great compared with that of the highest wind ( 50 to 100 feet per second ) , that the mere retardation of the velocity , if that were all , would not be apparent .
The sound would proceed against the wind with a slightly diminished velocity , at least 1000 feet per second , and with a but very slightly diminished intensity .
Neither can the effect of wind be solely due to its effect on our hearing .
There can be no doubt that during a high wind our power of hearing is damaged ; but this is the same from whatever direction the sound may come ; and hence from this cause the wind would diminish the distance at which sounds could be heard , whether they moved with it or against it , whereas this is most distinctly not the case .
Sounds at * Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1874 , p. 62 .
Refraction of Sound by the .
533 right angles to the wind are but little affected by it ; and in moderate winds sounds can be heard further with the wind than when there is none .
The same may be said against theories which would explain the effect of wind as causing a heterogeneous nature in the air so that it might reflect the sound .
All such effects must apply with equal force with and against the wind .
This question has baffled investigators for so long a time , because they have looked for the cause in some direct effect of the motion of the air , whereas it seems to be but incidentally due to this .
The effect appears , after all , not to be due simply to the wind , but to the difference in the velocity with which the air travels at the surface of the ground and at a height above it ; that is to say , if we could have a perfectly smooth surface which Would not retard the wind at all , then the wind would not obstruct sound in the way it does , for it would all be moving with an equal velocity ; but , owing to the roughness of the surface and the obstructions upon it , there is a gradual diminution in the velocity of the wind as it approaches the surface .
The rate of this diminution will depend on the nature of the surface ; for instance , in a meadow the velocity at 1 foot above the surface is only half what it is at an elevation of 8 feet , and smaller still compared with what it is at greater heights .
To understand the way in which this variation in the velocity affects the sound , it is necessary to consider that the velocity of the waves of sound does depend on the velocity of the wind , although not in a great degree .
To find the velocity of the sound with the wind we must add that of the wind to the normal velocity of sound , and against the wind we must subtract the velocity of the wind from the 1100 feet per Second ( or whatever may be the normal velocity of the sound ) to find the actual velocity .
Now if the wind is moving at 10 feet per second at the surface of a meadow , and at 20 feet per second at a height of 8 feet , the velocity of the sound against the wind will be 1090 feet per second at the surface and 1080 feet per second at 8 feet above the surface ; so that in a second the same wave of sound will have travelled 10 feet further at the surface than at a height of 8 feet .
This difference of velocity would cause the wave to tip up and proceed in an upward direction instead of horizontally .
For if we imagine the front of a wave of sound to be vertical to start with , it will , after proceeding for one second against the wind , be inclined at an angle of more than 45 ' , or half a right angle ; and since sound-waves always move in a direction perpendieular to the direction of the front ( that is to say , if the waves are vertical they will move horizontally and not otherwise ) , after one second the wave would be moving upwards at an angle of 45 ' or more .
Of course , in reality , it would not have to proceed for one second before it began to move upwards : the least forward motion would be followed 2 s 2 Prof. O. Reynolds on the by an inclination of the front backwards , and by an upward motion of the wave .
A similar effect would be produced in a direction opposite to that of the wind , only as the top of the wave would then be moving faster than the bottom , the waves would incline forwards and move downwards .
In this way the effect of the wind is to lift the waves which proceeded to windward , and to bring those down which move with it .
Thus the effect of wind is not to destroy the sound , but to raise the ends of the wave , which would otherwise move along the ground , to such a height that they pass over our heads .
When the ends of the waves are raised from the ground they will tend to diverge down to it , and throw off secondary , or , as I shall call them , diverging waves , so as to reconstitute the gap that is thus made .
These secondary waves will be heard as a continuation of the sound , more or less faint , after the primary waves are altogether above our heads .
[ This phenomenon of divergence presents many difficulties , and has only as yet been dealt with for particular cases .
It may , however , be assumed , from what is known respecting it , that in the ease of sound being lifted up from the ground by refraction , or , what is nearly the same thing , passing directly over the crest of a hill so that the ground falls away from the rays of sound , diverging waves would be thrown off very rapidly at first and for a considerable distance , depending on the wave-length of the sound ; but as the sound proceeds further the diverging rays would gradually become fainter and more nearly parallel to the direct rays , until at a sufficient distance they would practically cease to exist , or , at any rate , be no greater than those which cause the diffraction-bands in a pencil of light* .
The , divergence would introduce bands of diffraction or interference within the-direct or geometrical path of the sound , as in the case , of light .
These effects would also be complicated by the reflection of the diverging waves from the ground , which , crossing the others at a small angle , would also cause bands of interference .
The results of all these causes would be very complicated , but their general effect would be to cause a rapid weakening of the sound at the ground from the point at which it was first lifted ; and as the sound became weaker it would be crossed by bands of still fainter sound , after which the diverging rays , as well as the direct rays , would be lifted , and at the ground nothing would be heard.\#151 ; September 1874 .
] If we leave out of consideration the divergence* then we may form some idea as to the path which the bottom of the sound , or the rays of sound ( considered as the rays of light ) , would follow .
If the variation in the speed of the wind were uniform from the surface upwards , then * Taking sound of 1 foot wave-length , and comparing it with light whose wavelength is the 50,000th part of an inch , then the divergence of the sound at a mile from the point at which it left the ground would be comparatively the same as that of the light at yV of an inch from the aperture at which the pencil was formed .
Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
535 the rays of sound would at first move upwards , very nearly in circles .
The radii of these circles may .be shown to be 1100 x - - , where vx and v2 are the velocities of the wind in feet per second at elevations differing by h feet .
In fact , however , the variation is greatest at the ground , and diminishes as we proceed upwards , so that the actual path would be more that of a parabola .
Also , owing to this unequal variation in the velocity , those parts of the waves immediately adjacent to the ground will rise more rapidly than the part immediately above them ; hence there will be a crowding of the waves at a few feet from the ground , and this will lead to an intensifying of the sound at this point .
Hence , notwithstanding the divergence , we might expect the waves to windward to preserve their full intensity so long as they were low enough to be heard .
And this is in accordance with the fact , often observed , that sounds at short distances are not diminished but rather intensified when proceeding against the wind .
It will at once be perceived that by this action of the wind the distance to which sounds can be heard to windward must depend on the elevation of the observer and the sound-producing body .
This does not appear to be a fact of general observation .
It is difficult to conceive how it can have been overlooked , except that , in nine cases out of ten , sounds are not continuous , and thus do not afford an opportunity of comparing their distinctness at different places .
It has often astonished me , however , when shooting , that a wind which did not appear to me to make the least difference to the direction in which I could hear small sounds most distinctly , should yet be sufficient to cover one 's approach to partridges , and more particularly to rabbits , even until one was within a few feet of them\#151 ; a fact which shows how much more effectively the wind obstructs sound near the ground than even a few feet above it .
Elevation , however , clearly offered a crucial test whether such an action as that I have described was the cause of the effect of wind upon sound .
Having once entertained the idea , it was clearly possible to put it to the test in this way .
Also , if the principles hold in sound , something analogous must hold in the case of waves on the surface of a running stream of water\#151 ; for instance , waves made near the bank of a river .
I had just reached the point of making such tests when I discovered that the same views had been propounded by Professor Stokes so long ago as 1857* .
Of course , after such a discovery , it seemed almost unnecessary for me to pursue the matter further ; but as there were one or two points about which I was not then quite certain , and as Prof. Stokes 's -paper does not appear to be so well known as it might be ( I do not know of one writer on sound who has adopted this explanation ) , it still seemed that it might be well , if possible , to put the subject on an experimental basis .
I therefore made the experiments I am * Brit. Assoc. Report , 1857 , Trans , of Sect. p. 22 .
Prof. O. Reynolds on the about to describe ; and I am glad that I did not rest content without them , for they led me to what I believe to be the discovery of refrae-tion of sound by the atmosphere .
The results of my first observation are shown in fig. 1 .
This represents the shape of the waves as they proceeded outwards from a point near the bank of a stream about 12 feet wide .
Had the water been at rest there would have been semicircular rings ; as it was , the front of the waves up the stream made an obtuse angle with the wall , which they gradually left .
The ends of the waves , it will be observed , gradually died out , showing the effect of divergence .
The waves proceeding down the stream were , on the other hand , inclined to the wall , which they approached .
I was able to make a somewhat better observation in the Medlock , near the Oxford Road Bridge , Manchester .
A pipe sent a succession of drops into the water at a few inches from the wall , which , falling from a considerable height , made very definite waves .
Fig. 2 represents Fig. 2 .
a sketch of these waves , made on the spot : the diverging waves from the ends of the direct waves , and also the bands of interference , are very Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
537 clearly seen .
Both these figures agree with what has been explained as the effect of wind on sound .
In the next place I endeavoured to ascertain the effect which elevation has on the distance to which sound can be heard against a wind .
In making these experiments I discovered some facts relating to the transmission of sound over a rough surface , which , although somewhat obvious , appear hitherto to have escaped attention .
My apparatus consisted of an electrical bell , mounted on a case containing a battery .
The bell was placed horizontally on the top of the case , so that it could be heard equally well in all directions ; and when standing on the ground the bell was 1 foot above the surface .
I also used an anemometer .
These experiments were made on four different days , the 6th , 9th , 10th , and 11th of March .
On the first of these the wind was very light , on the others it was moderately strong , strongest on the second and fourth ; on all four the direction was the same , viz. north .
On the two last days the ground was covered with snow , which gave additional interest to the experiments , inasmuch as it enabled me to compare the effect of different surfaces .
On the first two days I was alone , but on the last two I had the assistance of Mr. J. B. Millar , of Owens College , whose ears were rather better than mine , although I am not aware of any deficiency in this respect .
The experiments were all made in the same place , a flat meadow of considerable extent .
The General Results of the Experiments .
De La Boche* , in his experiment , found that the wind produced least effect on the sound at right angles to its direction , i. e. sounds could be heard f urthest in this direction .
His method of experimenting , however , was not the same as mine .
He compared the sounds from two equal bells , and in all cases placed the bells at such distances that the sounds were equally distinct .
I , on the other hand , measured the extreme distance at which the sounds could be heard , the test being whether or not the observer noticed a break in the continuity of sound , a stoppage of the bell .
The difference in our method of experimenting accounts for the difference in our results .
I found in every case that the sound could be heard further with the wind than at right angles to its direction ; and when the wind was at all strong , the range with the wind was more than double that at right angles .
It does not follow , however , nor was the fact observed , that at comparatively short distances the sound with the wind was more intense than at right angles .
The explanation of this fact , which was fully borne out by all the experiments , is that the sound which comes in immediate contact with the ground is continually destroyed by the rough surface , and the sound from above is continually diverging down to replace that which has been * Annals de Chimie , vol. i. p. 177 ( 1816 ) .
538 Prof. O. Reynolds on the destroyed .
These diverging waves are in their turn destroyed ; so that there is a gradual weakening of the intensity of the waves near the ground , and this weakening extends upwards as the waves proceed .
Therefore , under ordinary circumstances , when there is no wind the distant sounds which pass above us are more intense than those which we hear .
Of this fact I have abundant evidence .
On the 6th , when the wind was light , at all distances greater than 20 yards from the bell the sound was much less at the ground than a few feet above it ; and I was able to recover the sound after it had been lost in every direction by mounting on to a tree , and even more definitely by raising the bell on to a post 4 feet high , which had the effect of doubling the range of the sound in every direction except with the wind , although even in this the range was materially increased .
It is obvious that the rate at which the sound is destroyed by the ground will depend on the roughness of its surface .
Over grass we might expect the sound at the ground to be annihilated , whereas over water it would hardly be affected .
This was shown to be the case by the difference in the range at .
right angles to the wind over grass , and over the same ground when completely covered with snow .
In the latter case I could hear the sound at 200 yards , whereas I could only hear it at 70 or 80 in the former .
Now , owing to the fact that the sound is greater over our heads than at the ground , any thing which slowly brings down the sound will increase the range .
Hence , assuming that the action of the wind is to bring down the sound in the direction in which it is blowing , we see that it must increase its range in this direction .
And it must also be seen that in this direction there will be less difference in the intensity of the sound from the ground upwards than in other directions .
This was observed to be the case on all occasions .
In the direction of the wind , when it was strong , the sound could be heard as well with the head on the ground as when raised , even when in a hollow with the bell hidden from view by the slope of the ground ; and no advantage whatever was gained either by ascending to an elevation or raising the bell .
Thus , with the wind over the grass the sound could be heard 140 yards , and over snow 360 yards , either with the head lifted or on the ground ; whereas at right angles to the wind on all occasions the range was extended by raising either the observer or the bell .
If has been necessary to notice these points ; for , as will be seen , they bear directly on the question of the effect of elevation on the range of sound against the wind .
Elevation was found to affect the range of sound against the wind in a much more marked manner than at right angles .
Over the grass no sound could be heard with the head on the ground at 20 yards from the bell , and at 30 yards it was lost with the head 3 feet from the ground , and its full intensity was lost when standing erect at Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
539 30 yards .
At 70 yards , when standing erect , the sound was lost at long intervals , and was only faintly heard even then ; but it became continuous again when the ear was raised 9 feet from the ground , and it reached its full intensity at an elevation of 12 feet .
Over the snow similar effects were observed at very nearly equal distances .
There was this difference , however , the sound was not entirely lost when the head was lowered or even on the ground .
Thus at 30 yards I could still hear a faint sound .
Mr. Millar could hear this better than I could ; he , however , experienced the same increase on raising his head .
At 90 yards I lost the sound entirely when standing on the ground , but recovered it again when the ear was 9 feet from the ground .
Mr. Millar , however , could hear the sound very faintly , and at intervals , at 160 yards ; but not with his head on the ground .
At this point I was utterly unable to hear it ; and even at an elevation of 25 feet I gave it up as hopeless .
However , as Mr. Millar by mounting 10 feet higher seemed to hear it very much better , I again ascended ; and at an elevation of 33 feet from the ground I could hear it as distinctly as I had previously heard it when standing at 90 yards from the bell .
I could not hear it 5 feet lower down ; so that it was the last 5 feet which had brought me into the foot of the wave .
Mr. Millar experienced the same change in this 5 feet .
As the sound could now be heard as strong as at a corresponding distance with the wind , we thought we had reached the full intensity of the waves .
This , however , was not the case ; for the least raising of the bell was followed by a considerable intensifying of the sound ; and when it was raised 6 feet I could hear each blow of the hammer distinctly , although just at that time a brass band was playing in the distance .
It^eemed to me that I could hear it as distinctly as at 30 yards to leeward of the bell .
All these resists were repeated on both days with great uniformity .
When more than 30 yards to the windward of the bell , the raising of the bell was always accompanied by a marked intensifying of the sound , and particularly over the grass .
I could only hear the bell at 70 yards when on the ground ; yet when set on a post 5 feet high I heard it 160 yards , or more than twice the distance .
This is a proof of what I previously pointed out , that the waves rise faster at the ground than they do high up , and crowding together they intensify .
In all cases there was an unmistakable greater distinctness of the sound from short distances to windward than to leeward or at right angles .
Except when the sound was heard with full force it was not uniform .
The bell-gave two sounds ( the beats of the hammer and the ring ) which could be easily distinguished ; and at times we could hear only the ring , and at others the beats .
The ring seemed to preserve itself the longest ; whereas near the ground at short distances the ring was lost first .
This is explained by the fact that the rate at which sound-waves diverge depends upon their note : the lower the note the more will they diverge .
Prof. O. Reynolds on the Thus the beats diverge more rapidly than the ring , and consequently die out sooner ; whereas when the head is on the ground near the bell it is only the diverging waves that are heard , and here the beats have the best chance .
The intensity of the sound invariably seemed to waver ; and as one approached the bell from the windward side , the sound did not intensify uniformly or gradually , but by fits or jerks ; this was the result of crossing the rays ' interference , such as those shown in fig. 2 .
During the observations the velocity of the wind was observed from time to time at points 1 foot and 8 feet above the surface .
On the 9th , that is over grass , it varied from 4 feet per second at 1 foot and 8 feet per second at 8 feet , to 10 feet at 1 foot and 20 feet at 8 feet , always having about twice the velocity at 8 feet that it had at 1 foot above the ground .
Over the snow there was not quite so much variation above and below .
On the 10th the wind varied from 8 feet at 1 foot to 4 feet at 8 feet * .
On the 11th the variation was from 12 at 1 foot and 19 at 8 feet to 6 at 1 foot and 10 at 8 feet .
Thus over snow the variation in the velocity was only about one third instead of half .
Since the foregoing account was written , I have had an opportunity of experimenting on a strong west wind ( on the 14th of March ) ; and the results of these experiments are , if any thing , more definite than those of the previous ones .
The wind on this occasion had a velocity of 37 feet per second at an elevation of 12 feet and of 33 at 8 feet and 17 at 1 foot .
The experiments were made in the same meadows as before , the snow having melted , so that the grass was bare .
With the wind I could hear the bell at 120 yards , either with the bell on the ground or raised 4 feet above it .
At right angles to the direction of the wind it ranged about 60 yards with the bell on the ground , and 80 yards when the bell was elevated .
To windward , with the bell standing on the ground ( which , it must be remembered , means that the bell was actually 1 foot above the surface ) , the sound was heard as follows :\#151 ; Full .
Lost .
With the head close to the ground. .
At 10 yards .
At 20 yards .
Standing ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " 30 " " 40 , , At an elevation of 25 feet ... ... . .
Not heard at 90 yards .
With the bell at an elevation of 4 feet 6 inches :\#151 ; Full .
Lost .
Head to the ground ... ... ... ... ... . .
At 18 yards .
At 30 yards .
Standing up ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... " 40 " " 60 " At an elevation of 12 feet . .
... . .
... .
, , 90 " At an elevation of 18 feet . .
... . .
, , 90 " These results entirely confirm those of the previous experiments ; and the intensifying of the sounds to windward by the raising of the bell was * The wind fell rapidly towards the close of the observations on this day .
Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
even more marked than before ; for at 90 yards to windward , with the bell raised , I could hear it much more distinctly than at a corresponding distance to leeward .
This fact calls for a word of special explanation ; it is clearly due to the fact that the variation in the velocity of the air is much greater near the ground than at a few feet above it .
When the hell is on the ground all the sound must pass near the ground , and will all be turned up to a nearly equal extent ; but when the bell is raised , the rays of sound which proceed horizontally will be much less bent or turned up than those which go down to the ground ; and consequently , after proceeding some distance , these rays will meet or cross , and if the head be at this point they will both fall on the ear together , causing a sound of double intensity .
It is this crossing of the rays also which for the most part causes the interference seen in fig. 2 .
These experiments establish three things with regard to the transmission of sound :\#151 ; 1 .
That when there is no wind , sound proceeding over a rough surface is more intense above than below .
2 .
That as long as the velocity of the wind is greater above than below , sound is lifted up to windward and is not destroyed .
3 .
That under the same circumstances it is brought down to leeward , and hence its range extended at the surface of the ground .
These experiments also show that there is less variation in the velocity of the wind over a smooth surface than over a rough one .
It seems to me that these facts fully confirm the hypotheses propounded by Prof. Stokes , that they place the action of wind beyond question , and that they afford explanations of many of the anomalous cases that have been observed ; for instance , that sounds can be heard much further over water than over land , and also that a light wind at sea does not appear to affect sound at all , the fact being that the smooth water does not destroy either the sound or the motion of the air in contact with it .
When the wind and sea are rough the case is different .
The Effect of Variations of Temperature .
Having observed how the wind acts to lift the waves of sound by diminishing their velocity above compared with what is below , it was evident to me that any other atmospheric cause which would diminish the velocity above or increase that below would produce the same effect , viz. would cause the waves to rise .
Such a cause must at certain times exist in the variation in the condition of the air as we proceed upwards from the surface .
Although barometric pressure does not affect the velocity of sound , yet , as is well known , the velocity of sound depends on the temperature* , * It varies as the square root of absolute temperature .
densit,16 ' an\lt ; ^ conse\lt ; luently as the square root of the Prof. O. Reynolds on the and every degree of temperature between 32 ' and 70 ' adds approximately 1 foot per second to the velocity of sound .
This velocity also increases with the quantity of moisture in the air ; but the quantity is at all times too small to produce an appreciable result .
This vapour nevertheless plays an important part in the phenomena under consideration ; for it gives to the air a much greater power of radiating and absorbing heat , and thus renders it much more susceptible of changes in the action of the sun .
If , then , the air were all at the same temperature and equally saturated with moisture , the velocity of sound would be the same at all elevations ; but if the temperature is greater , or if it contains more water below than above , then the wave of sound will proceed quicker below than above , and will be turned up in the same way as against a wind .
This action of the atmosphere is , strictly speaking , analogous to the refraction of light .
In light , however , it is density which retards motion ; temperature and pressure have little or nothing to do with it ; and since the density increases downwards , the rays of light move slower below than they do above , and are therefore bent downwards , and thus the distance at which we can see objects is increased .
" With sound , however , since it is temperature which affects the velocity , the reverse is the case ; the rays are bent upwards , and the distance from which we can hear is reduced .
It is a well-known fact that the temperature of the air diminishes as we proceed upwards , and that it also contains less vapour .
Hence it follows that , as a rule , the waves of sound must travel faster below than they do above , and thus be refracted or turned upward .
The variation of temperature is , however , by no means constant , and a little consideration serves to show that it will be greatest in a quiet atmosphere when the sun is shining .
The sun 's rays , acting most powerfully on that air which contains the most vapour , warms the lower strata more than those above them ; and besides this , they warm the surface of the earth , and this warmth is taken up by the air in contact with it .
It is not , however , only on such considerations as these that we are in a position to assert the law of variation of atmospheric temperature .
Mr. Griaisher has furnished us with information on the subject which places it beyond the region of surmise .
I extract the following from his " Report on Eight Balloon Ascents in 1862 " ( Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1862 , p. 462 ) " From these results the decline of temperature when the sky was cloudy For the first 300 feet was 0o,5 for every 100 feet .
From 300 to 340Q " 0'*4 " " " 3400 to 5000 " 0'*3 " " Therefore in cloudy states of the sky the temperature of the air decreased nearly uniformly with the height above the surface of the earth nearly up to the cloud .
Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
543 \#171 ; 'When the sky was partially cloudy the decline of temperature In the first 100 feet was 0'*9 * * * * From 2900 to 5000 " 0'-3 for every 100 feet .
" The decline of temperature near the earth with a partially clear sky is nearly double that with a cloudy sky .
" In some cases , as on July 30th , the decline of temperature in the first 100 feet was as large as l''l .
" _ We may say , therefore , that when the sky is clear the variation of temperature as we proceed upwards from 1 to 3000 feet will be more than double what it is when the sky is cloudy .
And since for such small variations the variation in the velocity of sound , that is the refraction , is proportional to the temperature , this refraction will be twice as great with a clear sky as when the sky is cloudy .
This is the mean difference , and there are doubtless exceptional cases in which the variations are both greater and less than those given ; during the night the variations are less than during the day , and again in winter than in summer .
This reasoning at once suggested an explanation of the well-known fact that sounds are less intense during the day than at night .
This is a matter of common observation , and has been the subject of scientific inquiry .
F. De La Eoche discusses the subject , and exposes the fallacies of several theories advanced to account for it .
Amongst others there are some remarks by Humboldt , in which he says that the difference is not due to the quietness of the night , for he had observed the same thing near the torrid zone , where the day seemed quieter than the night , which was rendered noisy with insects .
It is , however , by the experiments of Prof. Tyndall that this fact has been fully brought to light ; and from their definite character they afford an opportunity of applying the explanation , and furnish a test of its soundness .
Neglecting the divergence of the bottom of the waves , a difference of 1 degree in the 100 feet would cause the rays of sound , otherwise horizontal , to move on a circle , the radius of which by the previous rule = 1100.1^=110,000 feet .
A variation of one half this would cause them to move on a circle of 220,000 feet radius .
From the radii of these circles we can calculate the range of the sound from different elevations .
With a clear sky , i. e. with a radius 110,000 feet from an elevation of 235 feet , the sound would be audible with full force to 1*36 mile ; the direct sound would then be lifted above the surface , and only the diverging sound would be audible .
From an elevation of 15 feet , however , the direct sound might be heard to a distance of *36 , or 5 mile further , so that in all it could be heard 1*72 ( If ) mile .
With a cloudy sky , i. e. with a radius 220,000 feet , the direct sound Prof. O. Reynolds on the would be beard to 2-4 miles from an elevation of 15 feet , or 1*4 times what it is with the clear sky .
These results have been obtained by taking the extreme variations of temperature at the surface of the earth .
At certain times , however , in the evening , or when it was raining , the variation would be much less than this , in which case the direct sound would be heard to much greater distances .
[ So far I have only spoken of the direct or geometrical rays of sound , that is , I have supposed the edge of the sound to be definite , and not fringed with diverging rays ; but , as has been already explained , the sound would diverge downwards , and from this cause would be heard to a considerable distance beyond the point at which the direct rays first left the ground .
Prom this point , however , the sound would become rapidly fainter until it was lost .
The extension which divergence would thus add to the range of the sound would obviously depend on the refraction\#151 ; that is to say , when the direct rays were last refracted upwards , the extension of the range due to divergence would be greatest .
It is difficult to say what the precise effect of this divergence would be ; but we may assume that it would be similar to that which was found in the case of wind , only the refraction being so much smaller the extension of the range by divergence would be greater .
On the whole the results calculated from the data furnished by Mr. Grlaisher agree in a remarkable manner with those observed ; for if we add | mile for the extension of the range by divergence , the calculated distance with a clear sky would be two miles from a cliff 235 feet high.\#151 ; September 1874 .
] Now Prof. Tyndall found that from the cliffs at the South Foreland , 235 feet high , the minimum range of sound was a little more than 2 miles , and that this occurred on a quiet July day with hot sunshine .
The ordinary range seemed to be from 3 to 5 miles when the weather was dull , although sometimes , particularly in the evening , the sounds were heard as far as 15 miles .
This was , however , only under very exceptional circumstances .
Prof. Tyndall also found that the interposition of a cloud was followed by an almost immediate extension of the range of the sound.- I extract the following passages from Prof. Tyndall 's Report:\#151 ; " On June 2 the maximum range , at first only 3 miles , afterwards ran up to about 6 miles .
" Optically , June 3 was not at all a promising day ; the clouds were dark and threatening , and the air filled with a faint haze ; nevertheless the horns were fairly audible at 9 miles .
An exceedingly heavy rain-shower approached us at a galloping speed .
The sound was not sensibly impaired during the continuance of the rain .
" July 3 was a lovely morning : the sky was of a stainless blue , the air calm , and the sea smooth .
I thought we should be able to hear a long way off .
We steamed beyond the pier end and listened .
The steam-clouds were there , showing the whistles to be active ; the smoke-puffs * Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
545 were there , attesting the activity of the guns .
Nothing was heard .
We went nearer j but at two miles horns and whistles and guns were equally inaudible .
This , however , being near the limit of the sound-shadow , I thought that might have something to do with the effect , so we steamed right in front of the station , and halted at 3f miles from it .
Not a ripple nor a breath of air disturbed the stillness on board , but we heard nothing .
There were the steam-puffs from the whistles , and we knew that between every two puffs the horn-sounds were embraced , but we heard nothing .
We signalled for the guns ; there were the smoke-puffs apparently close at hand , but not the slightest sound .
It .
was mere dumb-show on the Foreland .
We steamed in to 3 miles , halted , and listened with all attention .
Neither the horns nor the whistles sent us the slightest hint of a sound .
The guns were again signalled for ; five of them were fired , some elevated , some fired point-blank at us .
Not one of them was heard .
We steamed in to two miles , and had the guns again fired : the howitzer and mortar with 3-lb .
charges yielded the faintest thud , and the 18-pounder was quite unheard .
" In the presence of these facts I stood amazed and confounded ; for it had been assumed and affirmed by distinguished men who had given special attention to this subject , that a clear , calm atmosphere was the best vehicle of sound : optical clearness and acoustic clearness were supposed to go hand in hand * * " As I stood upon the deck of the 'Irene ' pondering this question , I became conscious of the exceeding power of the sun beating against my back and heating the objects near me .
Beams of equal power were falling on the sea , and must have produced copious evaporation .
That the vapour generated* should so rise and mingle with the air as to form an absolutely homogeneous mixture I considered in the highest degree improbable .
It would be sure , I thought , to streak and mottle the atmosphere with spaces , in which the air would be in different degrees saturated , or it might be displaced by the vapour .
At the limiting surfaces of these spaces , though invisible , we should have the conditions necessary to the production of partial echoes , and the consequent waste of sound .
" Curiously enough , the conditions necessary for the testing of this explanation immediately set in .
At 3.15 p.m. a cloud threw itself athwart the sun , and shaded the entire space between us and the South Foreland .
The production of vapour was checked by the interposition of this screen , that already in the air being at the same time allowed to mix with it more perfectly ; hence the probability of improved transmission .
To test this inference the steamer was turned and urged back to our last position of inaudibility. .
The sounds , as I expected , were distinctly though faintly heard .
This was at 3 miles distance .
At 3| miles we had the guns fired , both point-blank and elevated .
The faintest thud was all that we heard ; but we did hear a thud , whereas we had previously Prof. O. Reynolds on the heard nothing , either here or three quarters of a mile nearer .
We steamed out to 4| miles , when the sounds were for a moment faintly heard , but they fell away as we waited ; and though the greatest quietness reigned on board , and though the sea was without a ripple , we could hear nothing .
We could plainly see the steam-puffs which announced the beginning and the end of a series of trumpet-blasts , but the blasts themselves were quite inaudible .
" It was now 4 p.m. , and my intention at first was to halt at this distance , which was beyond the sound-range , but not far beyond it , and see whether the lowering of the sun would not restore the power of the atmosphere to transmit the sound .
But after waiting a little , the anchoring of a boat was suggested ; and though loth to lose the anticipated revival of the sounds myself , I agreed to this arrangement .
Two men were placed in the boat , and requested to give all attention , so as to hear the sound if possible .
With perfect stillness around them , they heard nothing .
They were then instructed to hoist a signal if they should hear the sounds , and to keep it hoisted as long as the sounds continued .
" At 4.45 we quitted them and steamed towards the South Sand Head light-ship .
Precisely fifteen minutes after we had separated from them the flag was hoisted .
The sound , as anticipated , had at length succeeded in piercing the body of air between the boat and the shore .
" On returning to our anchored boat , we learned that when the flag was hoisted the horn-sounds were heard , that they were succeeded after a little time by the whistle-sounds , and that both increased in intensity as the evening advanced .
On our arrival of course we heard the sounds ourselves .
" The conjectured explanation of the stoppage of the sounds appeared to be thus reduced to demonstration ; but we pushed the proof still further by steaming further out .
At 5f miles we halted and heard the sounds .
At 6 miles we heard them distinctly , but so feebly that we thought we had reached the limit of the sound-range ; but while we waited the sound rose in power .
We steamed to theVarne buoy , which is 7| miles from the signal-station , and heard the sounds there better than at 6 miles distance .
" Steaming on to the Yame light-ship , which is situated at the other end of the Yame shoal , we hailed the master , and were informed by him that up to 5 p.m. nothing had been heard .
At that hour the sounds began to be audible .
He described one of them as ' very gross , resembling the bellowing of a bull , ' which very accurately characterizes the sound of the large American steam-whistle .
At the Yame light-ship , therefore , the sounds had been heard towards the close of the day , though it is 12f miles from the signal-station .
" Here we see that the very conditions which actually diminished the range of the sound were precisely those which would cause the greatest lifting of the waves .
And it may be noticed that these facts were observed and Refraction of Sound by the .
recorded by Prof. Tyndall with his mind altogether unbiased with any thought of establishing this hypothesis .
He was looking for an explanation in quite another direction .
Had it not been so he would probably have ascended the mast , and thus found whether or not the sound was all the time passing over his head .
On the worst day an ascent of 30 feet should have extended the range nearly \#163 ; mile .
The height of the sound-producing instruments is apparently treated as a subordinate question by Prof. Tyndall .
At the commencement of his lecture , he stated that the instruments were mounted on the top and at the bottom of the cliff ; and he subsequently speaks of their being 235 feet above him .
He does not , however , take any notice of the comparative range of those on the top and those at the bottom of the cliff ; but wherever he mentions them he speaks of them as on the cliff , leading me to suppose that for some reason those at the bottom of the cliff had been abandoned , or that they were less efficient than those above .
If I am right in this surmise , if the sounds from below did not range so far as those from above , it is a fact in accordance with refraction , but of which , I think , Prof. Tyndall has offered no explanation .
[ Besides the results of Prof. Tyndall 's experiments there are many other phenomena which are explained by this refraction .
Humboldt could hear the falls of Orinoco three times as loud by night as by day at a distance of one league ; and he states that the same phenomenon has been observed near every waterfall in Europe .
And although Humboldt gave another explanation* , which was very reasonable when applied to the particular case at Orinoco t , yet it must be admitted that the circumstances were such as would cause great upward refraction ; and hence there can be but little doubt that refraction had a good deal to do with the diminution of the sound by day .
In fact if this refraction of sound exists , then , according to Mr. Glaisher 's observations , it must be seldom that we can hear distant sounds with any thing like their full distiuctness , particularly by day ; and any elevation in the observer or the source of the sound above the * " That the sun acts upon the propagation and intensity of sound by the obstacles met in currents of air of different density , and by the partial undulations of the atmosphere arising from unequal heating of different parts of the soil .
During the day there is a sudden interruption of density wherever small streamlets of air of a high temperature rise over parts of the soil unequally heated .
The sonorous undulations are divided , as the rays of light are refracted wherever strata of air of unequal density are contiguous .
The propagation of sound is altered when a stratum of hydrogen gas is made to rise over a stratum of atmospheric air in a tube closed at one end ; and M. Biot has well explained , by the interposition of bubbles of carbonic acid gas , why a glass filled with.champagne is not sonorous so long as that gas is evolved and passing through the strata of the liquid."\#151 ; Humboldt ' s Travel , Bohn 's Series , vol. ii .
p. 264 .
+ The sounds proceeded over a plane covered with rank vegetation interspersed with black rocks .
These latter attained a very considerable elevation of temperature under the effects of the tropical sun , as much as 48 ' C. , while the air was only 28 ' ; and hence over each rock there would be a column of hot air ascending .
VOL. XXII .
* 2 T 548 On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
intervening ground will increase this range and distinctness , as will also a gentle wind , which brings the sound down and so counteracts the effect of refraction .
And hence we have an explanation of the surprising distances to which sounds can sometimes be heard , particularly the explosion of meteors , as well as a reason for the custom of elevating church-bells and sounds to be heard at great distances.\#151 ; September 1874 .
]

