276 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Feb. lo , February 10 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALI ON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Lord Aberdare and the Right .
Hon. George Sclater-Booth were admitted into the Society .
The Right Hon. Benjamin Disraeli , whose Certificate had been suspended , as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I , " On Repulsion resulting from Radiation/ '\#151 ; Part III .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received January 5 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of experiments ou the action of radiation on bodies the surfaces of which have their radiating and absorbing powers modified by various coatings .
The difference between a white and a lampblaclted surface in this respect was at first not very decided ; and experiments have been instituted with the object of clearing up some anomalies observed in the actions .
Two pith disks , one white and the other black , were suspended on a light arm in a glass bulb by means of a fine silk fibre ; after perfect exhaustion the white and black disks were found to be equally repelled by heat of low intensity , such as from the fingers , warm water , \amp ; c. A copper ball was then tried at gradually increasing temperatures .
Up to 250 ' C. it repelled both equally , above that the black was more repelled than the white , and at a full red heat the repulsion of the black disk was very energetic .
A lighted candle acts with more energy than the red-hot copper .
The presence of even a small quantity of aqueous vapour in the exhausted apparatus almost , if not quite , neutralizes the more energetic action which luminous rays appear to exert on a blackened surface .
After describing several different modifications and some new forms of apparatus devised to facilitate experiment , the author gives a drawing of an instrument which enables him to get quantitative measurements of the amount of incident light falling on it .
It consists of a flat bar of pith , half black and half white , suspended horizontally in a bulb by means of a long silk fibre .
A small magnet and reflecting-mirror are fastened to the pith , and a controlling magnet is fastened outside so that it can slide up and down the tube , and thus increase or diminish i76 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
asitiveness .
The whole is completely exhausted , and then enclosed in :3ox lined with black velvet , with apertures for the rays of light to pass and out .
A ray of light reflected from the mirror on to a graduated ale , showrs the movements of the pith bar .
The degrees of deflection oduced by the light of a candle at distances from 6 feet to 35 feet are ven .
The experimental observations and the numbers which are required r the theoretical diminution of light with the square of the distance e sufficiently close , as the following figures show :\#151 ; Candle 6 feet off gives a deflection of 218 The effect of two candles side by side is practically double , and of iree candles three times that of one candle .
The action of various solid and liquid screens is next given .
A candle 3 feet off , giving a deflection of 180 ' , has its action reduced 3 the following amounts by 0 Yellowglass ... ... ... ... ... ... .* ... ... ... .
161 Blue " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
102 Green " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
101 Bed " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
128 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 47 Alum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 27 A candle on each side of the apparatus , and equidistant from it , keeps he index ray of light at zero ; by shading off either one or the other the ight flies off to either extremity of the scale .
This gives a ready means \gt ; f balancing two sources of light one against the other .
Thus , retaining the standard candle 48 inches off on the left of the bar , the index was Drought to zero by placing on the right 2 candles ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
67 inches off , 1 candle behind solution of sulphate of copper. .
6 " " " alum plate ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
14 " A small gas-burner ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 113 " These experiments show how conveniently and accurately this instrument can be used as a photometer .
By balancing a standard candle on one side against any source of light on the other , the value of the latter in terms of a candle is readily shown ; thus in the last experiment the Mr. W. Crookes on [ Feb. 10 standard candle 48 inches off was balanced by a gas-flame 113 inches off The lights were therefore in the proportion of 482 to 1132 , or as 1 to 5 The gas-burner was therefore equal to 5| candles .
By interposing screens of water or plates of alum , and so practically cutting off all the dark heat , the actual luminosity is measured .
In addition to this , by interposing coloured glasses or solutions , any desired colours can be measured either against the total radiation from a candle , its luminous rays , or any desired colour .
One coloured ray can be balanced against another coloured ray , by having differently coloured screens on either side .
The variations in the luminosity of a " standard " candle will cease to be of importance .
Any candle may be taken ; and if it be placed at such a distance from the apparatus that it will give a uniform deflection , say of 100 divisions , the standard can be reproduced at any subsequent time ; and the burning of the candle may be tested during the photometric experiments by taking the deflection it causes from time to time , and altering its distance , if needed , to keep the deflection at 100 divisions .
If the pith bar in this instrument be blacked on alternate halves , an impetus given by a ray of light always acts in the same direction of movement .
A candle causes it to spin round very rapidly until the suspending fibre is twisted up , and the rotation is stopped by the accumulated torsion .
By arranging the apparatus so that the black and white surfaces are suspended on a pivot instead of by a silk fibre , the interfering action of torsion is removed , and the instrument will rotate continuously under the influence of radiation .
To this instrument the author has given the name of the " Bathometer , " or " Light-Mill .
" It consists of four arms of very fine glass , supported in the centre by a needle-point , and having at the extremities thin disks of pith lampblacked on one side , the black surfaces all facing the same way .
The needle stands in a glass cup , and the arms and disks are delicately balanced so as to revolve with the slightest impetus .
In the 'Proceedings of the Boyal Society ' for 1875 ( vol. xxiii .
p.373 ) , the author gave a brief account of some of the earlier experiments with these instruments .
In the present paper he enters very fully into the various phenomena presented by them , and gives Tables showing the number of revolutions made by the radiometer when exposed to a constant source of light removed different distances from the instrument .
The law is that the rapidity of revolution is inversely as the square of the distance between the light and the instrument .
'When exposed to different numbers of candles at the same distance off , the number of revolutions in a given time are in proportion to the number of candles , two candles giving twice the rapidity of one candle , and three giving three times , \amp ; c. The position of the light in the horizontal plane of the instrument is J/ 6 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
279 jjno consequence , provided the distance is not altered ; thus two tiidles one foot off give the same number of revolutions per second , aether they are side by side or opposite to each other .
From this it \gt ; ft !
ows that if the radiometer is brought into a uniformly lighted space ttadll continue to revolve .
This is proved to be the case by experi-ant .
iThe speed with which a sensitive radiometer will revolve in full sun-* no is almost incredible .
Nothing is apparent but an undefined nebulous jig , which becomes at times almost invisible .
The number of revolu-tns per second cannot be counted , but it must be several hundreds , for xe candle will make the arms spin round forty times a second , dThe action of dark heat ( i. e. from boiling water ) is to repel each sur-ise equally , and the movement of the radiometer is therefore arrested if xiask of boiling water is brought near it .
The same effect is produced I ice .
[ 'From some observations made by the author , it appears probable that Sat of a still lower refrangibility repels the white more than it does the Kack surface .
Many instances are given of the radiometer revolving the everse way .
Thus breathing gently on the instrument will generally 5 use this effect to be produced .
t An experiment is described with a radiometer the moving parts of Jhich are of aluminium , blacked on one side .
" When exposed to the bdiation from a candle the arms revolve the normal way .
On removing ie candle they revolve the reverse way .
Heated with a Bunsen burner le arms revolve the normal way as they are getting hot ; but as soon as le source of heat is removed and cooling commences , rotation sets up l the reverse way , and continues with great energy till the whole is old .
The reverse movement during the cooling is apparently equal l energy to the normal movement as it is being heated .
1 It is easy to get rotation in a radiometer without having the surfaces \#163 ; the disks differently coloured .
An experiment is described with one aving the pith disks blacked on both sides .
On bringing a candle near and shading the light from one side , rapid rotation is produced , which i at once altered in direction by moving the shade to the other side .
The author describes many forms of radiometer , by means of which he movements can be exhibited to a large audience , or can be made to ecord themselves telegraphically on a self-recording instrument .
I. \lt ; c On [ Repulsion resulting from Radiation."\#151 ; Part IV .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received February 5 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes experiments on the repulsion pro-luced by the different rays of the solar spectrum .
The apparatus smployed is the horizontal beam suspended by a glass fibre and having

