539 An Active Modification of Nitrogen , Produced by the Electric Discharge.\#151 ; V* 1 By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received May 9 , \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1913 .
) S1 .
Improved Technique .
Experience has led to certain modifications of detail in preparing nitrogen for the experiments .
Commercial nitrogen.from cylinders is still used , but instead of passing it over phosphorus it is allowed to stand in contact with it for some hours .
The former method does well enough when the phosphorus is freshly cut , but in time the surface deteriorates , owing , in part at least , to the accumulation of oxides of phosphorus , which tend to obstruct access of the gas .
Two 15-litre aspirator bottles are arranged as a gasholder in the usual way , the gas being displaced by water .
In the gas space is hung up a muslin bag containing chopped phosphorus .
On filling the gasholder with commercial nitrogen the phosphorus fumes freely , and all traces of oxygen are removed in the course of two or three hours .
The fumes subside , and the gas is ready for use .
It merely requires drying on its way to the discharge tube .
This 15-litre supply is more than enough for most experiments .
When it is used up the water rises and drowns the bag of phosphorus , dissolving out the oxides which have been formed , and leaving it in good condition for use next time .
It is advisable to cover the gasholder with a jacket of black cloth to exclude light , which spoils the phosphorus surface .
With this precaution such an apparatus will remain in good order for a year or more .
Air should not be drawn into it .
If this is done the phosphorus will probably catch fire .
It may be thought inconvenient to intermittently fill up the gasholder , instead of working straight from the supply in the cylinder .
In practice this disadvantage is more than compensated .
In using the gas it is convenient to be able to measure the rate of intake , which is readily done if the gasholder is graduated.f * I , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 85 , p. 219 ; II , ibid. , A , vol. 86 , p. 56 ; III , ibid. , A , vol. 86 , p. 262 ; IV , ibid. , A , vol. 87 , p. 179 .
t The bottle holding the displaced water is the most convenient one to graduate , as it does not need to be kept covered from the light .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 P Hon. It .
J. Strutt .
[ May 9 , Moreover , it is advantageous to dispense with the automatic gas regulators , which , as obtained commercially , give an inconveniently high gas pressure , and are apt to leak , so that more nitrogen is wasted than is used .
S 2 .
Effect of Impurities in the Nitrogen used .
It has been thought by some of those who have repeated my experiments* that the phenomena of active nitrogen are not obtained in the absence of traces of oxygen .
Othersf have confirmed the original conclusion that nitrogen alone is concerned .
For my own part I am more than ever confident of the correctness of this view .
Since the question has been raised I shall enter into my reasons more fully than would otherwise have been thought necessary .
As explained ( S1 ) the nitrogen used habitually in the experiments has stood over phosphorus until all action is over and all fume has subsided .
Moreover , the issuing nitrogen is saturated with phosphorus vapour , as is shown by letting it blow off into the air in a dark room , when the issuing jet of gas becomes luminous by mixing with atmospheric oxygen .
The question then arises , how much oxygen at the most can be present in such nitrogen ?
To settle this a flask of 1500 c.c. capacity was filled with commercial nitrogen , and allowed to stand over water in a pneumatic trough .
A piece of phosphorus was supported in the middle of the flask , and in the course of a few hours removed most , at any rate , of the residual oxygen .
The gas volume was then quite free from fume , and in the dark no luminosity whatever could be seen in it .
A bubble of air , 1/ 20 c.c. in volume , was then passed up into the flask , J which was enough to produce distinctly visible streaks of white fume .
These were distributed throughout the greater part of the volume , showing that the oxygen introduced was no longer locally concentrated .
With 1/ 10 c.c. of air the streaks were most conspicuous , and could not escape even careless observation .
From this experiment it appears that the addition of a 1/ 150000 part of oxygen produces a distinct reaction .
It seems pretty safe therefore to conclude that not more than 1/ 100000 part of oxygen can remain when the phosphorus has done its work .
Probably even this fraction would be an enormous overestimate of the actual amount .
* See F. Comte , ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1913 , vol. 14 , p. 74 ; also E. Tiede , 'Ber .
d. Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
, ' 1913 , p. 340 .
+ Konig and Elod , 4 Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1913 , vol. 14 , p. 165 .
J It is scarcely necessary to describe the simple arrangement used to measure out and deliver this small quantity of air .
1913 .
] An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
541 Thus the phosphorus purification seems to secure the complete absence of oxygen .
In addition the gas has been passed on occasion through a tube 80 cm .
in length , tightly packed with rolls of fine copper gauze , and heated to full redness .
The gauze had been oxidised and reduced beforehand to make its surface spongy .
I do not find that the copper makes any difference whatever to the phenomena .
Naturally therefore it has been discarded .
This result with copper is in direct contradiction with one of my critics ( Comte ) .
How to account for his result I do not know .
The whole weight of the decision as to whether oxygen is necessary must rest on direct experiment .
But I would ask those who may not have an opportunity of seeing or repeating the experiments to give a little consideration to the a priori probabilities .
The active gas is capable of forming nitrides from the metals , and hydrocyanic acid from hydrocarbons .
What possible r6le is there for oxygen , admittedly in infinitesimal proportions only , in such a process ?
We may next consider the effect of intentionally adding oxygen to the nitrogen used , starting with nitrogen which had been purified by phosphorus .
The unfavourable effect of oxygen has already been considered.* It was now systematically investigated , mixtures of known composition being made up and passed through the discharge tube .
One per cent , of oxygen ( by volume ) was found to very materially diminish the volume and brilliancy of the active nitrogen glow ; 2 per cent , obliterated it altogether .
With 5 per cent , of oxygen a totally different phenomenon , the ozone-nitric oxide glow , f begins to come in .
These experiments indicate that to get good results the nitrogen should certainly not contain more than 1/ 10 per cent , of oxygen .
As already shown , nitrogen purified in the cold by phosphorus more than fulfils this condition .
The effect of other impurities likely to be present was also studied .
The addition of 20 per cent , of hydrogen extinguishes all glow ; \#163 ; per cent , of hydrogen , on the other hand , scarcely does any harm .
It is seen that traces of hydrogen produce far less effect than traces of oxygen .
Practically if the Ha line cannot be distinctly seen in the exciting discharge , outshining the nitrogen bands in the same region of the spectrum , it may be concluded that no prejudicial quantity of hydrogen is present .
Carbon dioxide hinders the glow about as much ( or as little ) as hydrogen .
The presence of water vapour is much more prejudicial .
Scarcely any glow is obtained from nitrogen drawn straight from the gasholder without drying , and therefore saturated with water vapour.t * I , p. 224 ; II , p. 56 .
+ ' Phys. Soc. Proc.,5 December 15 , 1910 .
J It is of course no longer saturated after it has passed the regulating stopcock , and is many times expanded .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 9 , To get the best results very good drying is required .
Two alternative drying tubes were arranged in parallel .
A two-way stopcock made it easy to exchange one for the other .
Each contained well packed phosphorus-pentoxide ; one column of this material measured about 6 cm .
x 2 cm .
, the other about 3,0 cm .
x 5 cm .
The glow was markedly better developed with the second .
Even when this had done its work a further slight improvement was obtained by passing the gas through a tube cooled to liquid air temperature , and packed with copper gauze , to provide a large condensing surface .
It has not been determined whether the advantage of this last purification is in further drying , or in removal of traces of hydrocarbons and phosphorus-vapour .
The latter certainly is removed .
S 3 .
Chemical Action on Elements\#151 ; Metallic and Non-Metallic .
In the earlier work* the proofs of chemical union with active nitrogen chiefly relied upon were increase of weight in the substance acted upon , and disappearance of the gaseous nitrogen used .
I have now gone over most of the ground by the alternative method of testing for ammonia when the products are boiled with water or caustic potash solution .
This method has proved much easier and more powerful than the previous ones .
Mercury , it will be remembered , ]- gave an explosive compound when its-vapour was allowed to mix with active nitrogen .
Shaking the product with water , and filtering , a strong reaction of ammonia is obtained with Nessler's-solution .
] It was observed , too , that specimens of the compound which had lain exposed to the air for some days no longer gave the characteristic crackling explosions on heating .
Presumably the nitride had been decomposed by atmospheric moisture .
Zinc and cadmium distilled below a red heat in a current of active nitrogen also yield nitride , which is not explosive , however .
Boiled with water the contents of the tube give a strong Nessler reaction in each case .
Blank experiments , in which the conditions are in all respects the same , , except that the stream of nitrogen is not made active , gave absolutely negative results .
With all these metals the product forms an adherent black coating on the-walls of the tube , and apparently retains mechanically an excess of the metal condensed from its vapour .
* I , pp. 222-225 .
f I , p. 225 .
| J In this and the following experiments , the indication obtained was not merely a discoloration , but an abundant red precipitate making a quantity of liquid quite opaque .
1913 .
] An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
Sodium vaporised in the nitrogen stream also gave a nitride , decomposable by water , and detected as before .
This action appears to be somewhat less energetic than those just mentioned .
But the first part of the distillate from the alkaline solution gave a strong Nessler reaction .
It was thoroughly verified that sodium from the same stock , not treated with active nitrogen , gave no such reaction .
Arsenic sublimed in active nitrogen and boiled with potash solution gave ammonia , readily detected in the distillate .
Sulphur did the same .
Occasionally traces of the blue compound obtained so abundantly with carbon disulphide ( see below ) appeared in this instance .
More commonly the product was not visibly distinguishable from the excess of sulphur .
It probably consists of the ordinary yellow sulphide of nitrogen .
A quantity of iodine was allowed to sublime at room temperature , in a , stream of active nitrogen .
The usual brilliant blue glow was produced.* The iodine , together with any product that might have been formed , was frozen out with liquid air and dissolved in potash .
No trace of ammonia could be obtained from the solution .
S 4 .
Chemical Action on Inorganic Compounds .
When carbon disulphide vapour is fed into a stream of active nitrogen , it is-soon noticed that a solid deposit forms on the walls of the vessel .
This deposit forms evenly over a considerable area , and has a deep indigo blue colour .
In the experimental arrangement the gas stream was laid on through a tube cooled in liquid air to remove excess of carbon disulphide .
Here it was observed that a further deposit of brown colour was formed on the cooled surface .
First , as regards the blue deposit .
This oxidised with strong nitric acid yields sulphuric acid , identified by its action on barium chloride solution .
Sulphur , then , is one constituent element .
Heated with potash solution the blue substance dissolves ] and ammonia is liberated , indicating the presence of nitrogen .
The blue substance is identified with the blue sulphide of nitrogen obtained by Burt , ] to which he assigned the composition ( NS)* .
Like his preparation , , it proved insoluble in benzene and in chloroform .
The brown deposit separated on the cooled condenser remains to be considered .
It was soluble in hot concentrated sulphuric acid to a * I , p. 227 ; see also coloured plate , p. 228 .
t A thin colourless skin is left on the glass , which has not been investigated further .
] ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1910 , vol. 97 , p. 1171 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 9 , brown-purple solution , and in concentrated nitric acid to a red solution .
This behaviour , taken in conjunction with its formation from carbon disulphide , identifies it as the polymeric carbon monosulphide obtained by Dewar and Jones* by the action of the silent discharge on carbon disulphide vapour .
Apart then from the unknown molecular weight of the solid product , the action may be represented thus CS2 + N = NS+CS .
Yapour of chloride of sulphur , fed into active nitrogen , yields a light yellow deposit , which consists , at all events in part , of ordinary sulphide of nitrogen .
Heated with potash , it yields ammonia in abundance .
Hydrogen sulphide behaves similarly .
In each case the luminosity developed is blue and shows bands due to sulphur .
The magnificent luminous effects obtained with stannic chloride have already been mentioned.]- The energy of the chemical action does not seem to be proportionate .
A small quantity of white deposit forms on the tube walls , but it is difficult to collect enough for examination .
Titanium tetrachloride , which develops a brilliant titanium line spectrum on mixing with active nitrogen , gives a much more abundant white deposit .
This yields ammonia when boiled with potash , but is not dissolved .
It is soluble in acids and appears to be a compound of titanium , chlorine , and nitrogen .
Its further study may be undertaken later .
S 5 .
Chemical Action on Vapours of Organic Substances .
It was previously shown ] that acetylene reacted with active nitrogen to yield a cyanogen compound .
The proof was : ( 1 ) development of the cyanogen spectrum ; ( 2 ) formation of a cyanide by absorption in alkali .
Other organic compounds also develop the cyanogen spectrum , and it was assumed that they also form cyanogen .
The subject has now been examined more fully , though much still remains to be done .
In order to condense out the products of reaction , the gases were passed through the vessel shown in fig. 1 , with the result that they were frozen on the outside of the test-tube .
This could be withdrawn after the experiment , and quickly inserted into another larger test-tube , by means of the same rubber cork ( fig. 2 ) .
In the bottom of the outer tube was a little potash solution .
As the products evaporated they were absorbed by agitation in this solution , which could then be examined .
* 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc./ 1910 , A , vol. 83 , p. 527 ; 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 574 .
t I , p. 226 ; also Strutt and Fowler , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 86 , p. 110 .
' ] I , p. 228 .
1913 .
] An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
The advantage of this method is that the cooled test-tube is readily taken out and replaced for the next experiment without disturbing other parts of the apparatus .
The following compounds were tested and gave the Prussian blue reaction strongly : acetylene , benzene , pentane , methyl bromide , ethyl -T\#151 ; GAS stream ENTRANCE LIQUID air EXIT W Fig. 2 .
chloride , ethyl iodide , chloroform , bromoform , ethylene dichloride , ethylidene dichloride , and ether .
Carbon tetrachloride and carbon disulphide , in sharp contrast with the above , gave no trace of it .
No evidence was brought forward in previous papers to decide whether the compound formed in these cases is cyanogen gas or hydrocyanic acid .
The reactions of these substances with alkali are as follows :\#151 ; HCN + KOH = KCN + H20 , C2N2 + 2KOH = KCN + KCN0 + H20 .
We may therefore hope to decide between the two alternatives by looking for a cyanate in the liquid .
The test for cyanate used was very kindly shown me by Dr. M. 0 .
Forster , F.E.S. The liquid ( as concentrated as possible ) is just acidified with acetic acid , and a cobalt solution added .
In the presence of cyanate a brilliant blue colour is produced .
This test was applied to the product from three hydrocarbons , pentane , acetylene , and benzene , * and gave absolutely negative results .
It is * In the two latter cases the solutions had to be decolorised with animal charcoal before the test could be applied .
546 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ May 9 ?
concluded that the product from hydrocarbons is hydrocyanic acid , not cyanogen gas .
Compounds containing the halogens behave differently .
With chloroform and carbon tetrachloride , * a strong cyanate reaction was obtained .
It seems probable that in these cases cyanogen chloride is formed , which ( as is known ) yields cyanate when treated with alkali .
The evidence above presented is not enough to determine completely the course of the reaction when active nitrogen acts on these organic vapours .
We need not hesitate , indeed , to represent it in the case of acetylene by the equation C2H2-f2N = 2HCN , and similarly in the case of benzene .
This , however , is not a complete account of the matter .
More complex solid or liquid products of dark colour are formed in addition .
With benzene these have a characteristic odour .
Dr. Forster , to whom they were submitted , felt fairly certain that cyanobenzene , C6H5CN , was present , and probably also the isomeric phenylcarbylamine C6H5NC .
It seems not improbable that there is here the germ of a new method of organic synthesis , which I hope may be taken up by those competent to pursue it .
With pentane and similar bodies the question remains unanswered\#151 ; what becomes of the surplus hydrogen , over and above that required for the formation of hydrocyanic acid ?
The probable alternatives are ( 1 ) it is set free , or ( 2 ) it unites with more of the active nitrogen to form ammonia .
Neither possibility lends itself very easily to experimental test .
Ammonia is indeed easily obtained from the products by the action of caustic alkali , but this proves nothing , for it may come wholly from the decomposition of hydrocyanic acid by the caustic alkali used .
Little or no dark-coloured matter is produced when active nitrogen acts on pentane vapour .
Chloroform does yield a little , however , under some conditions .
It is of interest to inquire what fraction of the nitrogen passed through the apparatus is converted into hydrocyanic acid , when allowed to react with excess of some organic vapour .
In a typical experiment light petroleum , mainly pentane , was used .
Six litres of nitrogen were passed , the products frozen out , and afterwards absorbed in potash .
The excess of petroleum floated as a layer on the alkaline solution , and was got rid of by burning it off .
The cyanide was estimated by Liebig 's volumetric method ; 15'5 c.c. of decinormal silver solution sufficed to just give a permanent turbidity .
* The latter , it will be remembered , gives no cyanide .
1913 .
j An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
547 This indicates about 37*4 c.c. of combined nitrogen , measured as nitrogen gas at room temperature , i.e. 0*62 per cent , of the nitrogen passed .
This is about the same as the yield of combined nitrogen obtained in earlier experiments in the reaction with phosphorus , * but much less than in the reaction with nitric oxide , j* I do not now look on any of these estimations as indicating the percentage of active nitrogen generated under the experimental conditions , though of course they are inferior limits to it .
Probably much of the active nitrogen reverts to ordinary nitrogen without entering into chemical union with the reagent presented to it .
S 6 .
Luminosity Accompanying these Actions .
It was remarked^ that the various organic vapours differ very much in the intensity of the cyanogen spectrum which they yield when mixed with active nitrogen .
In cases like benzene the spectrum is scarcely to be seen , and this was thought ( loc. ait .
) to indicate that very little hydrocyanic acid was formed .
The chemical tests have shown , however , that it is formed quite as abundantly from benzene , which scarcely gives the cyanogen glow , as from acetylene , which gives it magnificently .
Again , if ready-made cyanogen is fed into active nitrogen we get the cyanogen glow brilliantly , but anhydrous hydrocyanic acid vapour gives little or nothing of it in the same circumstances .
These cases are of interest because in them we have to do with ready-made molecules , and are independent of any special phenomena which may occur at the moment of their formation .
Not only does the absolute intensity of the cyanogen glow differ very much from one compound to another , but also the relative prominence of the red series of bands .
S Further investigation has shown that a special development of the red bands is always associated with the presence of the halogens .
Carbon tetrachloride , chloroform , bromoform , ethylene dichloride , and ethylidene chloride all gave a strong orange cyanogen glow .
Ethyl chloride and methyl bromide gave one of intermediate character , while in all the cases examined , in which halogens were not present , the glow was lilac .
I am inclined to associate the orange glow with cyanogen chloride or bromide .
This view is strengthened by the observation that vapour of cyanogen chloride fed in directly yields it in great intensity .
* * * S * I , p. 223 .
t II , p. 58 .
X I , p. 228 .
S I , p. 228 ; also Strutt and Fowler , \#163 ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , voJ .
86 , p. 113 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 Q An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
In spite of the large number of additional facts accumulated it is still difficult to decide definitely what connection exists between the luminous phenomena developed by active nitrogen , and its chemical actions .
The following points may be noted : When the nitrogen stream acts on elementary bodies the spectrum of the element developed may be one of lines ( mercury , sodium , the metals generally ) or of bands ( sulphur , iodine ) .
In the former case chemical action appears always to be traceable .
In the latter it is traceable in some cases ( sulphur ) ; in others not ( iodine ) .
When the action is on a compound the spectrum developed may be a band spectrum of the compound introduced ( cupric chloride , tin tetrachloride , mercury haloids ) , a line spectrum of one of the elements contained in it ( titanium tetrachloride ) , a band spectrum of one of the contained elements ( hydrogen sulphide ) , or a band spectrum of a compound formed in the reaction ( cyanogen spectrum from acetylene ) .
Finally , an energetic action may be going on without any very distinct emission of light ( benzene ) .
There is evidently no simple generalisation to be extracted from such facts as these , and it is best perhaps provisionally to regard the luminous effects as quite independent of the chemical ones .
On this view , if a suitable substance , elementary or compound , happens to be present , it will draw energy in some way from the active nitrogen , and emit a characteristic spectrum ; and this no matter whether the substance is introduced in the first instance as such , or results from chemical combination or decomposition .
S S 7 .
Summary .
( 1 ) An improved practical method of preparing and storing nitrogen for the experiments is described .
( 2 ) It is shown , notwithstanding criticisms of certain other experimenters , that the presence of traces of oxygen in the nitrogen used is not essential , or even favourable , to the phenomena .
The nitrogen used , purified by cold phosphorus , does not contain oxygen to the extent of one part in 100,000 .
Passing it over red-hot copper in addition makes no difference .
The intentional addition of oxygen does harm ; 2 per cent , obliterates the effects altogether .
Hydrogen and carbon dioxide as impurities are much less harmful , but traces even of water vapour have a very bad effect .
( 3 ) Nitrides are formed by the admixture of active nitrogen with vapour of mercury , cadmium , zinc , arsenic , sodium , and sulphur .
These are decomposable by water or potash solution , yielding ammonia .
( 4 ) Carbon disulphide yields a blue polymeric nitrogen sulphide , and polymeric carbon monosulphide .
Chloride of sulphur gives ordinary yellow The Capacity for Heat of Metals at Different Temperatures .
549 nitrogen sulphide .
Stannic chloride and titanium .tetrachloride also yield solid products .
In the latter case nitrogen was proved to be present .
( 5 ) All organic compounds tried , except carbon tetrachloride , yield hydrocyanic acid freely , but not cyanogen , as was proved by chemical tests .
When chlorine is present , cyanogen chloride is formed .
Benzene yields ( almost certainly ) cyanobenzene .
( 6 ) The intensity of the cyanogen spectrum with organic compounds is no index of the quantity of hydrocyanic acid being formed .
Preponderance of the red cyanogen bands is associated with cyanogen chloride or bromide .
On a general view of the evidence , there does not appear to be any definite connection between the development of spectra by active nitrogen and the chemical actions in progress .
I take this opportunity of thanking my colleagues , Prof. H. B. Baker and Dr. M. 0 .
Forster , for constant help and advice .
The Capacity for Heat of Metals at Different Temperatures .
By E. H. Griffiths , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , and Ezer Griffiths , B.Sc. , Fellow of the University of Wales .
( Received April 1 , \#151 ; Read May 1 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) The object of this investigation was the determination , with the closest approach to accuracy , of the specific heat of certain metals , and the changes therein caused by changes in temperature .
The work , including the necessary preliminary standardisations , has occupied our attention during the last two years and we feel unable , in this abstract , to describe with any clearness the various precautions adopted , or the somewhat elaborate process of reducing the results .
We , therefore , here content ourselves with a brief indication of the methods of experiment , a statement of the results , and a short discussion of certain suggestive features which they present .
I. The method of experiment is briefly indicated in the following numbered paragraphs :\#151 ; VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 R

