III .
" Description of a traini of Eleven Sulphidc-of-Carbon Prisnms arranged for Spectrum Analysis .
" By J. P. GASSIOT , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1864 .
The principles which should regulate the construction of a battery of prisms have been alluded to in the description of the large spectroscope now at Kew Observatory , which has a train of nine dense glass prisms with refracting anigles of 45 ?
* .
While for purposes of exactitude , such as mapping out the solar spectrum , flint glass stands unrivalled ; yet when the greatest amount of dispersion is the desideratum , prisms filled with bisulphide of carbon present obvious advantages , on accoulnt of the enormous dispersive power of that liquid the difference of its indices of refraction for extreme rays being , according to Sir David Brewster , as 0-077 againist 0 026 for flinlt glass .
In the fluid prisms of the ordinary conistruction , the sides are cemented on with a mixture of glue and honey .
This cemenit , on hardening , warps the sides , and confusion of the spectral linies is the consequent result .
To obviate this source of error , it has been proposed to attach an additional pair of parallel sicles to suct1 prisms , a thin film of castor-oil being interposed between the surfaces .
The outer plates are then secured by means of sealing-wax , or some cemenit , at the corners .
In the battery of prisms now about to be described , Mr. Browning has dispensed with this attachment at the corners , which is likely to prove prejudicial , and has secured the seconld sides in their proper position by extremely light metal frames which clasp the plates only on their edges .
Thus arranged , the frames exert no pressure on the surfaces of the plates , and are quite out of the field of view , and they can be handled without any fear of derangement .
On accounlt of the lower refractive power of bisulphide of carbon , as compared with flint glass , a refractive angle of 500 was giveni to the fluid prisms .
Eight such prisms would cause a ray of light to travel more than a circle , and would be the greatest number that could be employed had the ordinary arrangement been adopted .
In place , however , of giving to the fluid prisms two pairs of parallel sides , Mr. Browning , taking advantage of the difference betweenl the refractive and dispersive properties of crown glass and bisulphide of carbon , has substituted a prism of crown glass having a refracting angle of 60 for one of the outer plates of each prism the base of this crown-glass prism being brought to correspond with the apex of the fluid prism , thus:-* Proccedings , vol. xii .
p. 536 .
Crown-glass prism .
By this means the angle of minimum deviation of the prisms is so much decreased , that eleven of them thus conistructed can be used in a circle instead of eight .
An increase of dispersive power , due to refracting angles of 1500 of the bisulphide of carbon , is thuis gainied , minus only the small amount of dispersion counteracted owing to the dispersive power of the crown-glass prisms being employed in the contrary direction .
From the well-known low dispersive power of this medium , however , this loss is inconsiderable , amounting to scarcely more than a fifteenth of the power gained .
Owing to the minimum angle of deviation being lowered , the further advantage is also secured of a larger field of view being presernted to the telescope by the first and last prism of the train .
Each prism , in addition to the light metal frame referred to , has a separate stand , furnished with screws for adjusting the prisms , and securing them at the angle of minimum deviationi for any particular ray .
The prism stands within a stirrup furnished with a welled head .
By this arrangement the prisms can be removed and replaced without touching their sides -a matter of some importance , as all fluid prisms show different results with every change of temperature .
For the sake of simplicity , the metal framing of the prisms , and the various adjusting-screws , have been omitted in the last sketch .
The very unfavourable state of the weather prevented any observations * Direction of ray as it would pass through two pair of parallel sides t Direction of ray as altered by interoosing the crowifglass prisnim U-being made on the solar spectrum with these prisms until Saturday the 12th inst .
The results then obtained may probably not be considered devoid of interest .
They are as follows : The prisms were arraniged so as to enable that portion of the spectrum to be observed in which the well-defined D line of Fraunhofer is situated .
This line , long since resolved as double , presented an angular separation of 3 ' 6 " , measured from the centre of one to that of the other principal line , this measurement being made by Mr. Balfour Stewart by means of the micrometer attached to the telescope ; the value of the divisions of the micrometer he had previously determined relatively to the divided circle of the spectroscope .
A centre line ( clearly defined and figured in Kirchhoff and Bunsen 's map ) was distinctly visible , and nearly equidistant from the centre towards the violet ; five clearly defined lines were perceptible , as also two faint lines on each side of the principal lines , between the centre line of Kirchhoff towards the red .
Several faint lines were also perceptible .
The lines as represented in the diagram were drawn by Mr. Whipple , one of the assistants in the Observatory , as they were observed by him about 3.45 P.M Some of these may possibly be due to the earth 's atmosphere , but the five most refrangible lines were observed at an earlier period of the day by Mr. Stewart , Mr. Browning , and myself .
The great angular separation of the double D line to 31 6"1 is a proof of the power of this arrangement of the sulphide-of-carbon prisms , and offers the means of mapping out the entire solar spectrum on a scale not hitherto attained .
Received April 6 , 1864 .
Note.-Since the preceding observations were recorded , an inspection has been made of the region of the spectruim towards the refrangible side of double D ; and , from the comparisons made with a map of lines obtained by means of the battery of glass prisms with that given by those of the sulphide-of-carbon prisms , many new lines are produced in addition to those observable by the former , while the battery of glass prisms itself gives a number of additional lines to those that are depicted in Kirchhoff 's map .

