]\gt ; 1877 .
] On the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
February 1 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : 1 .
" " On the Mean Directions and Distribution of the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure , and their Relations to the Mean Direction and Force of the Wind oveIi the British Isles , \amp ; c By J. A. BROUN , F.R.S. Received December 30 , 1876 .
[ PLATES \amp ; ] 1 .
Mecm Directions and Distribution of the Isobaric Lines .
In considering atmospheric variations , it is always desirable to know , if possible , the mean values about whioh the others : this appears to be especially the case with l.eference to the direction of ths lines of mean barometric pressure and of ths atmospheric currents .
If any common law exist connecting the statical and mical pressurs of the , this will probably show itseIf with some precision by an investigation in which , all the cases ( observations of every day ) being included , deviations from the law may expected to neutralize each other , and the final results give absolute measures directly comparable with each other .
For any exact determination of the lines of equal rometric pressure it is essential to possess observations from stations whose heights above the mean sea-level are accurately known , and made with good instruments which have been compared directly or indirectly with each other .
These conditions are well satisfied by the tions made at the Greenwich , Dublin , and Makerstoun tories in the eight years 1842 to 1849 ( both inclusive ) .
The barometers were all by the maker , each having a tube of nearly inch diameter ; they were all compared directly or indirectly with the Boyal Society 's the heights of the cisterns determined by levelling from the sea in each case .
Under such circumstances the directions and intervals of the isobaric lines may be found with much more precision than from observations made at any number of stations where these conditions are not fulfilled .
In the folloving investigation I shadl assume that , ithin the limits of the three stations , the mean directions of the isobars for each month , von .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions Sc. of [ Feb. I , as deduced from the eight years ' observations , may be represented approximately by parallel straight lines drawn on a plane chart .
The positions of the three barometers are as follow:\mdash ; Taking the meridian of Greenwich for the axis of , and the circle of latitude of Greenwich for that of , represented by a straight line on the chart perpendicular to ( both on the same plane ) , we obtain the foIlowing equations for the isobars passing through Makerstoun ( M ) and Dublin . . . . . . .
; and if , and be expressed in geographical miles , then from the precedin coordinates we have for the points and , ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) where the usual trigonometrical directions are employed .
If be the difference of barometric pressures ( always for the mean sea-level ) for Greenwich minus Makerstoun , and for Greenwich minus Dublin , these will be proportional to the perpendiculars from to the isobaric lines through and ; hence ( 3 ) From these three equations we find ; ( 4 ) so that , if be counted from the north through the east , south , and west ( as for the directions of the wind ) , we find for the isobar passing through and , tam or 16 ; for the isobar passing through and The height given by Dr. Lloyd is feet above low water of spring-tides , from which I have subtracted 6 feet to reduce to mean sea-level , as at the other stations Dublin Observations , the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
for the isobar passing through and , tam ; or The following Tables contain the monthly mean barometric pressure at Greenwich for the eight years , and the corresponding values of and Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions .
of Although we may assume , when observations for a considerable period of time are considered , that the isobars over the small space about the three stalions may be represented by parallel straight lines , yet this assumption becomes less probable when the observations for single months are employed ; since in these occasional cyclones may produce considerable irregularities .
I have thought it desirable , however , to calculate the values of for each month by equation ( 4 ) , in order to obtain some approximation to the probable errors of the directions deduced from the whole eight years ' observations .
The values of are given in the following Variations of Yearly Jleans .
yearly mean barometric pressure .
does not seem to vary according to any law ( see ] line of Table I The greatest pressure at all the stations occurred in 1842 , and the next 1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
highest in 1847 and 1849 , the least pressure being in 1848 .
There is , however , an appearance of systematio change in the yearly mean values of , and of , which may be notioed on account of its partial coincidence with the decenmal period of sun-spots and magnetic variations .
The differences of pressure shown by the isobars passing through the three stations was least in 1844 , and greatest in .
It does not follow , however , that the tenth-inch isobars were really further separate in 1844 than in 1847-48 , since this depends also on the perpendicular distance between the isobars , or on the angle which they with the meridian ; thus we find the perpendicular distances of the tenthinch isobars in geographical miles in the diiferent years to be as follows:\mdash ; 1842 .
1843 .
1844 .
1845 .
1846 .
1847 .
1848 .
1849 .
the isobars were furthest separate in 1844 and 1849 , and nearest in 1845 .
The regular riation of and was thus chiefly due to the inclination of the isobars to the meridian .
From the last line of Table .
we see that the isobars were from north of west ( W. by N. nearly ) in 1844 , and from south of west ( W.S.W. nearly in 1848 .
Though there is a coincidence in these epochs with those of mimimum and maximum sun-spot frequency , it is a coincidence which requires confirmation by a longer series of , the more espe- cially as the change of value of from1848 to 1849 is very considerable .
Annual Variations.\mdash ; The foUowing iable contains the monthly mean values for the whole eight years , those of being derived from the mean values of and by equation ( 4 ) ( they aoe therefore not the means of the quantities in Table and , with their probable errors , are in thousandths of an inch .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions Sc. of Annual Variation of Barometric Pressnre in \mdash ; In the discussion of the Makerstoun observations of barometric height for the years 1842-49 I sought to determine this law , and fonnd that ths greatest pressures occurred in the months from May to September ( both inclusive ) , while the least occurred in October and November ; the probable errors of the monthly means were , however , found to be too considerable to give much value to the secondary variations which were shown in the monthly mean values .
The mean for the six months April to September was one tenth of an inch greater than that for the six winter months* .
Very similar conclusions were arrived at by Dr. Lloyd , in his discussion of the Dublin observations for 1840 to 1850 , both as regards the epochs of maximum and minimum pressure , as well as of the probable error ( or divergence ) of the monthly means .
Somewhat similar conclusions may be deduced for Greenwich from the second column of Table V. , the maximum in December being slightly marked than at Makerstoun and Dublin .
If the isobars made the same angle with the meridian in all the months of the year , and kept at the same interval , the annual variations would be the same at all the stations .
This , however , it will be seen , is not the case , and the annual variation of barometric pressure for any place is a compound result .
I have sought to determine the annual law for the centre of gravity of the three stations ( a point alittle to the east of Liverpool ) as derived from the monthly means , reduced to the sea-leyel , for the three places ; these given below .
The probable errors are lenst for the four months of June to September , and greatest in the months of December and February .
The probable errors are much diminished if we determine the means for groups of months in each year .
Thus we find : Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb . .
part 2 .
, 1850 .
Observations made at the Magnetical and Meteorologiffi Observatory at Trinity under the direction of Humphrey Lloyd , D.D. , D.C.L. , vol. .
p. 347 , 1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
521 The probable errors are here sufficiently small , when compared with the yariations from group to group , to allow us to conclude that we have obtained a considerable approximation to the law of change for the centre of England .
It is not a little remarkable that the greatest monthly mean pressure ( that for September ) is followed immediately by the least , the probable errors leaving no doubt as to this fact* , the difference of pressure from September to October-Novsmber being inch .
It is not improbable that the pressure in December is greater than in the months ; but alonger series of observations is required to determine that question , since the probable error for the month is very large .
The mean barometric pressure at the mean sea-level for a point in N. and W. of vich is inch as deduced from the eight observations 1842-49 ) at the three stations .
Annual Variation of the quantities , and \mdash ; It be seen from Table .
that the magnitude of and is a maximum in December and January , a minimum in April or May , a secondary maximum in July , and a minimum again in September .
This result was obtained by me for in 1850 .
The perpendicular distances between the isobars calculated with the aid of the values of given in the column Table .
: the distances are least about January and about July ; they are greatest in ApriL May , and Septembel. .
The are the differences barometric pressure corresponding to 100 miles perpendicular to the isobar .
probable errors given above and in Table V. have been obtained in the same way as for the observations of a constant quantity .
There can be no doubt , however , that the conditions are not striotly the same in the two cases .
In the case of devltttions of observations of magnetic declination the mean , I have shown , in the Makerstoun Observations 1844 ( Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
vol. xviii .
p. 351 ) , that they did not satisfy the hypothesis of positive and negative distribution employed the calculus of probabilitics for the probable error .
This is also true for various meteorological phenomena .
A consideration of the differences of the monthly mean barometric height has induced me to believe that the formula for the probable error gives such an approximation to the probiLble deviation of any determination that it may be accepted as a relative measure of the exactness of the result .
It win be obvious also that these differences cannot be called errors if .
they are due to a law .
In present instance it has been rematked that , an seem all to have a somewhat regular variation depending on the year .
It will seen , Yever , from the last hne of Table V. , that if we assume this variation to bs accident , the pl.obable rence to it is so small that it can only blightly the probable differences or errors for the different months .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions Sc. of It thus appears that the diflerence of pressure for l00 miles is greatest in the coldest months , is a secondary maximum in the warmest months , and is a minimum in April , May , and September* .
The only laws resembling this are those for magnetic disturbance , frequency of the aurora borealis , and for the horizontal force of the earth 's magnetism .
Annual of the direction of the Isobars.\mdash ; The values of given in Table IV .
can be oonsidered as only rough approximations in some months .
The probable errors of mean result ( Table V. ) have been calculated from Table , giving each determination equal weight .
I have found that the probaDle errors thus obtained differ little from the mean deviation of , deduced from equation ( 4 ) with the limiting values and of excepting for the months of May and April , for which the mean deviations are much greater .
This is due to the very small menn of and , and their comparatively large probable errors for these months .
From the seventh column of Table .
it appears that the isobars run most from south of west in December ( nearly from S.W. ) and in .
by and most from north of west in September .
Beginning with October , the run from a little south of west ; they are from further in November , and from furthest south of west in December .
They again approach the west point in Jamuary , remain nearly west and ( within a few degrees ) from to July ( excepting May , to which I shall refer presently ) ; move further north in August , to the maximum north of west in September .
The lines from May run from south of west ( to north of east ) ; but this result cannot leceive much , as the probable errors are gTeater than the mean values of and .
This remark applies also , to a great extent , to the result for April , which , however , agrees nearly with * I think there is some reason to believe that this law , as regards the months , with some slight modilication , is general , Mr. chan , in his valuable " " firsb approximation ' to charts of isobars for the whole earth , stated that April is the month in which ' ' pressure is more equally distributed over the globe than in any other month\ldquo ; ( Edinb .
Trans. vol. xxv .
p. 578 , 1869 ) .
This conclusion depends on the value of the approximation to the isobars for the sonthern hemisphere , for which the data are not only least numerous , but probably least exact .
Mr. Buchan 's charts show lsfay to be the month of widest distribution for the ) orthern hemisphere , as has been found here for England .
1877 the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
the directions for February and March .
I shall return to the results for April and May in the nexb parb of this paper .
The directions here obtained from eight years ' observations , made under the most unexceptionable circumstances in three observatories , will probably not be improved for some time* .
On this account I have thought it desirable to project the isobaric lines on small charts , so as to show at a glance their general direction and distribution ( see Plate 12 ) .
The results for the whole year have so small probable errors that I have projected them on a larger scale ( see Plate 11 ) .
It should be here remarked that there is no ground as yet for affirming that the mean direction and distribution of the isobal .
S for any series of years will be the same as for any following series ; and the best determination that can be obtained for any given time may be of the greatest importance for comparison with another of equal value at a later period for the answer to this question .
2 .
Relation of the Direction and Interval of the Isobars to the Direction and Force of the Wind .
These relations have been hitherto studied chiefly with reference to cases of strong vinds or storms .
The conclusions have been obtained directly from the projections on charts of the isobaric lines and winddi.rections on days .
In the following part of this paper , as in the preceding , the results are sought from the observations made on every day throughout the series of years employed ; they may therefore serwe as a base for the study of particular cases .
I have sought to obtain some confirmation for the directions of the isobars in Great Britain from the numerons observations made in ) to 1867 , employed Buchan in the formation of his charts .
Mr. Bucl ) 's object in the construcCion of charts appears to have been to obtain the best possible approximation to the broad features of the distribution of the isobars for the whole trth ; and he has exercised his judgment in employing the mass of observations which he was able to oollect Edinb .
Trans. .
My examination of these for the months of April and May , in which the change of pressure for a distancs of 1(K ) miles is only a few thousandths of an inch of mercury , has shown the difficulty of deducing from them any accurate determination , such as is here attempted , for a small space like England .
These charts are not projections , and were devised by me for another investigation , for which the true areas on the sphere were required ; they are , however , probably not new .
The ollowing will give the most simple idea of their construction .
If suppose the surface of a globe to be built of series of rings of cylindrical wires laid on the parallels of latitude , and cut out the wires covering any part of surface , then if these be laid out touching eaoh other on a plane surface , in straight lines perpendicular to a or principal meridian , the external meridians will be curves of sines ( straight lines for squares on the scale of the chart for the year ) .
The distances of any point perpendicularly to a circ.le of latituds and to principal lneridian are the trne lengths of the arcs in latittlde and longitude from these circles .
For small spaces the distortion is inconsiderable .
In the charts here given the principal meridian , that of Greenwich , is not in the middle , the ection of the isobario lines having been referred to that meridian .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the reclions .
of Direct and Force of the Wind.\mdash ; In most meteorological investigations , and especially in those connected with climate , it is essential to obtain the force and frequency of the winds for each point of the compass .
It has beeJl usual , however , in many researches to determine the resultant direction and force for given periods by the known law of the composition of forces .
It is quite possible that this resultant may be in a direction from which no wind ever blows , but it does not the less represent what all the other winds would have been equivalent to , both in direcbion and force .
It may also be affirmed that in fact the resultant direction thus obtained is generally that of the prevailing wind .
In estions such as the present , if auy general relation subsists between the direction of the isobars and that of the inds , the mean direction of the one will probably be aflected in like manner with that of the other* .
It occtlrred to me then to compare th ' , resultant directions of the wind with those of the for month of the year .
Possessing these resultants for Makerstoun for each month derived from four years ' observations ( 1843-1846 ) , it was necessary compute the corresponding values for and Dublin , and to calculate the mean and intervals of the for the same years .
The observations at Greenwich were made with an Osler.s anemometer , and only pressures which on the mean for an hour exceeded one fourth of a pound were noted .
At Makerstoun instrument employed was of a wholly different description and not self-registering ; observations were made of the maximum pressures ( if not less than one tenth of a poumd ) within ten minutes at each observatioJl hour ( see the Introductions to the Makerstoun Observations ) .
Observations of the direction and force of the wind were not begun the observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , till 1845 ; but I have obtained ob.servations for the four years in question from the volume of observations made at the Ordnance Observatory , Phoenix Park , in a locality stated by Dr. Lloyd to be wholly .
The instrument employed at the Phoenix Park observatory was a Whewell 's anemometer , which always worked imperfectly , so that the observed runs of the pencil differed from time to time for the same wind-velocities S. The monthly resultants calculated from the It is to be observed that the mode in which the resultant wind-direction is obtained is not the same that employed for the direction of the lines of equal pressure ; but this difference can only affect resuIts derived from periods during hich the wind has blown frequently in very arent or opposite directions ; and even in such cases the isobars should retain their relation to the wind , if the resultant force for that direction is considerable .
A special investigation show , however , the amount of error which may be to cause . .
Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
vol. , p. 99 .
Observations made at the Observatory , Trinity College , Dublin , vol. .
p. 384 .
S Introduction to Observations made at the Pho:nix Park Obsertor .
1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
numbers of runs have been combined by me in the same way as for the forces to obtain the means for the four years .
The resultant forces cannot therefore be considered absolute measures at any of the three stations ; I havs , however , endeavoured to reduce them to a common unit* .
In order to , the factor required to give approximately the wind-pressures , I have assumed that the velocities of the wind at Greenwich and Makerstoun do not differ much from those shown by Robinson 's anemometers at Kew and Oxford .
Mr. Johnson foumd that the mean velocities at Kew and Oxford were nearly the same ; the msan velocity at Oxford , 110 feet above the ground , from four years ' observations ( 1857-61 ) was miles an hour .
This velocity , employing the generally aocepted formula , gives a constant mean pressure of .
on the square foot of surface ; the mean of the observed pressures during the four years 1843 to 1846 ( without reference to direction ) was lb. at Makerstou ) and .
at Greenwich , agreement which , considerin all the circumstances , the difference of truments , modes of observation , and distances Srom the ground of the air stratum whoss force was , must be quite accidental .
The resultant forces for Makerstoun have then been multiplied by and those for Greenwich by to reduce to the mean , .
at Oxford .
In the case of the pencil-runs on Whewell 's anemometer at Dublin they have been divided by 50 , which gives an approximation to the mean pressures at the other stations .
The means of the three sultant pressures found for each month from the four years ' observations may then be taken as approximations to the resuItant mean pressure for the mean resultant direction over the space included by the three stations .
The following Table contains ths mean barometric pressul:e at Greenwich , with the difleremces ( and ) from the mean pressures at lIakelstou]l and Dublin at -level , and the directions of the wind at the three stations .
Dublin and Makerstoun vanes nearly 20 feet above the ground ( at Greenwich I believe the height was greater ) .
I do not know any objection to the position of the vanes which could vitiate the observed directions of the wind at any of the stations .
From my knowledge of the used at Makerstoml and of the care with which observations lvere made , I beliove the means to be very good relative measures of the forces .
Radcliffs Observatory Observations , vol. xviii .
, introduction to Metoorological Observations in 1857 , .
xxiv .
This formula is , I beliove , very far from being accurate ; the true relation between the pressure and velocity of the wind , as shown by erent anemometers , requires an integrating pressure insbrument , in which the sums of may bc showu by work done .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions Sc. of [ Feb. 1 , Relation of the Direction of the Isobars to that of the Wind .
\mdash ; The resultant direction of the wind at Greenwich is the same as that at Makerstoun on the mean of four years , but the monthly directions differ on the average ( without reference to sign ) .
The resultant direction at Dublin for the four years diflers considerably from that at the other two stations .
The mean of three resultant directions is given in Table , together with the differences .
It appears that the direction of the isobars was positive of that of the wind in ten months of the year , the directions being nearly the same in two months , April and December ; the difference was greatest in September .
From the mean directions for the four years we find I believe that the only really exceptional result is that for December , since the determination of for April and September depends on very small values of and ; the mean of the results for these two months is , however , exactly the mean for the year .
The most remarkable of the ' ' The wind in storms neither blows round the centre of least pressure in ( ircles , or as tangsnts to the concentric isobarics , nor does it blow directly towards that centre .
It takes a direction termediate , approaching , however , more nearly to the direction and course of the circular curves than of ths radu to the centr6\ldquo ; ( ' ' On the Meall Pressure of the Atmosphere by Mr. A. Buchan , Edinb .
Trans. vol. .
p. 581 ) ; that is , the ang16 with the isobar is less than .
Mr. Buchan , " " or , according.to Dr. -BaUot , the angle is not a right angle , but from to \ldquo ; that is , from to with the isobar .
The mean of these limits is , exactly what has been found above from the mean direction of the isobars and resultant direction of the wind in all cases .
I have not been able to find any memoir by the distinguished Utrecht meteorologist containing the grounds on which his limits are founded .
The tendency of the winds inwards ( towards the ctjntre ) in cyclones is noticed by several writers on the subject , among others by Redfield ( Silliman 's Journal , vol. .
p. 14 , 1846 ) .
1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
differences is that for May , which also depends on small negative values of , and , yet gives a result differing but little from the mean , though the direction of the wind ( a little to west of north ) is upwards of 10 from the direction * .
Relation of the diJfereme of baromet.ic pressures for 100 miles to the sultant of the wind.\mdash ; The rences of barometric pressure for 100 geographical miles perpendicular to the isobars ( 100 mile gradients have been calculated from the values of , and ; these , with the resultant mean pressures for the wind obtained as indicated p. 525 , are given in Table VII .
The 6th column contains the mean pressure ( P ) of the pounds on square foot of surface , derived from the results for the three stations .
The last column contains the differences of barometric pressure for 64 miles of interval , for which , in the mean , one thousandth of an inch of barometric pressure is equivalent to one hundredth of a pound of pressure of the wind .
This agreement is probably to some extent acoidental : it will be seen that the direction of the wind at Dublin was ( west of north ) , while it was near north at Gresnwich , and east of north at Makerstoun .
When the resultant direction for May at Dublin is determined by the frequency of the wind from different points ( by Lambert 's formula ) , it is found to be , nearly as at the difference , , for May would then become .
I may remark that the resultant directions for the other months at Dublin obtained by the same formula agree better with the mean of those at Greenwich and Makerstoun than when the " " runs\ldquo ; of the pencil are employed .
The resultant direction for the four years is frequency , or further south of west than when determined by the penoil-runs .
The resultant direction at Makerstoun for the four years is exactly the same by the two methods .
I have felt some difficulty in employing the word gradient , due to Mr. Thomas Stevenson , C.E. , in this relation , as it is associated to some extent with a hypothesis of Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions Sc. of It has already been stated that the resultant pressures of the wind are only rough approximations , yet hese indicate very distinctly the same annual law of variation as the diabars ; not only so , the results for each month show no great divergences from the ratio stated above derived from the mean for the four years .
When we remember that these resultant forces are obtained in some cases from winds proceeding from opposite directions , which destroy other to a great extent , and that the mean differences of barometric pressure are obtained similarly from prcssures which increase in opposite directions , it seems probable that the relation found holds , though the ratio may vary somewhat with winds of different forces and from different directions .
The variations including the greater divergences from the mean must also be the object of special investigations , in which winds from the same direction , and with nearly the same mean forces , must be considered alone .
Ratio of the mepressure of the wimd ( sir face current ) , independent of direction , to the resultant pressure.\mdash ; It has been stated that the pressure of the was always noted at kerstoun whenever the maximum pressure within an interval of 10 minutes at the hour of observation was at least one tenth of a pound on a square foot of surface , and that although the absolute mean pressures cannot be derived directly from these observations , yet that their relative values are probably determined with considerable accuracy .
We may then obtain a measure of the variability of the wind , that of the degree of opposedness of the masses of air in motion at the earth 's surface , from the rfttios of the mean ( M ) to the resultant ( R ) pressures .
hose at Makerstoun for the four years , 1843 to 1846 , were as follo We see that the greatest proportion of the surface current proceeded from one quadrant in the winter months of December and January , and in the summer months of June and July ; that the wind was most variable in May , April , and September .
We have ] ready found ( p. 522 ) atmospheric surfaces with and valleys , into the latter of which the former ars pposed to flow .
On this account I should much prefer some other word ( such diabar or barode ) , which would serve to indicate ths relation of the difference of pressure to the unit of distance .
* ' ' Results of Makerstoun Observations Trans. Boy .
Soc. Ldinb .
vol. 1ix .
, art .
209 , .
xcvi multiphed before ) .
1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
that the directions of the isobars varied most in the same months , May being the month of greatest variability* .
I have added the perpendicular distances ( I ) between the tenth-inch obars in geographical miles ( deduced from the values of , second column of Table These intervals show a remarkable constancy of ratio to the ] of the wind .
In the mean for the four years at Makerstoun , miles .
The intervals between the isobars increase with the variability of the wind .
These , it will be remembered , are mean resuIts .
The mean pressure of the wind has its mean in the two months of April and May , when the direction is most variable ; but in September , the next epoch of maximum variability , the mean pressure is a minimum .
It appears also from the fourth column of Table VIII .
that the direction of the cirrus current was most variable in April and May ; the next epoch of maximum variability was , however , in August instead of September , as for the surface current .
3 .
Atmospheric Currents .
In the preceding investigations we have employed the observations of the direction of the surface current only .
We require greatly to know to what extent the direction would vary in ascending from the earth .
The late Mr. Johnson , Director of the Oxford Observatory , found that am anemometer at a height of 110 feet from the ground showed a windvelocity two and a quarter tim that indicated by a instrumeut 22 feet from the soil ; of this difference was probably due to buildings and trees in the neighbourhood ; but there can be little doubt that proximity to the soil is a cause of diminished velocity .
I am acquainted with no observations , made at points free from all obstructions , which answer the question , whether the of the wind varies considerably within a few hundred feet of the ground .
The only way , then , of investigating this subject must be by comparisons of the direction of the wind near the surface , in well-exposed localities , with that of the motions of the clouds .
Such observations require in general much time ; to be of any use to science they should be made frequently and systematically .
This can be * I may remark here that the variability of the direction of the wind and of the intervals and direction of the isobars have no relation whatever to the diurnal variation of temperature , nor to the variation of temperature from day to day .
The diurnal range of temperature was greatest in the mean of the four years in June and August .
The difference of the daily mean temperature from the monthly mean was least in August , May , and July ; less in these months than half the mean difference for January .
( ' ' Results of ]rerstoun Observations Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
vol. .
pt .
2 , .
lxxxv .
) Mr. J. A. Broun on the Direchons Sc. of done well only at observatories where nssistants are continually on the watch , during the day at least ; the employment .
of self-registering instruments bas diminished the number of observers required in perma- nent institutions , and observations of cloud-motions can now scarcely be expected with the requisite completeness .
On board ship these obser- vations are made even more difficulty than on shore ; rapidly moving upper currents , ] those in which clouds are seen moving from very diflerent or nearly opposite directions , catch the eye at once , and are most frequently recorded .
No serious investigations can be founded on observations when the most frequent motions are really not observed .
Believing that any just conclusions as to the atmospheric currents could be obtained only from long careful observations of cloudmotion , I began a series of observations in 1842 at Makerstoun , hich I continued in the following years with my assistants , the late Mr. John Welsh , F.R.S. , and Mr. A. Hog * .
Four currents were distinguished at different heights .
1st , the surface current observed by the wind-vane ; 2nd , the current of loose cumuIus ( seud ) and cumulus ; , the current of cirro-stratus ; 4th , the current of cirro-cumulus and cirrus .
The observations of these currents have been only partially discussed ; I shall give here some of the results which bear upon the subject of the present investigation , derived from the observations made in the four years 1843 to 1846 , for which the directions of the surface-wind and of the isobaric lines have been already obtained .
Direction of the Cirrus current.\mdash ; Having found the mean direction in which the cirri and cirro-cumuli moved for each day on which their motion was observed during the four years , I have combined these by Lambert 's formula ( on the assumption that the velocity was the same on each day ) in order to obtain the resultant direction ( ) for each month ; these are given in Table VIII .
motions of the olouds were determined by seeking till a marked portion was found which seemed to run up or down one of the four corners of the observatory , the points of the compass relatively to which were marked on a surrounding paling ; when no portion of cloud could be found that would pass or had passed through the zenith , the vanishing-point of the motions of different portions of cloud in the same stratum could generally be ascertained very nearly .
It is believed that in a great majority of cases the directions were found to within half a point of the compass , though the nearest point was always noted .
In the year 1844 alone 4370 observations were made of the directions of motion of the cloud-currents .
The same classiiieation of cloud-motions was proposed by M. Poey to the Paris Academy of Science in 1864 Comptes Rendus , lviii .
, excepting that he separated the loose cumuli from the cumuli : this separation I had also made , especially in the north-east quadrant , in which the loose cumuli have a much lower position than in the other ; but in taking the mean directions the bwo strata were included in one .
M. Poey has , I believe , recommended this system of observation of the atmospheric currents to the MeteoroIogical Committee of the Royal Society , reoommendation in which I entirely concur .
1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
I have entered for comparison the resultant directions of the surface current at .
It will be seen that in ten months of the year the values of are positive ; in two months , April and May , they are negativ : the greatest positive difference is that for December .
When we determine the resultant directions from all the observations in each of the four years ( see Table VIII we find that the directions of the cirrus and surface currents may be given as It has to be pointed out , however , that these directions are not strictly comparable ; the direction of the wind is observed at all hours when the wind blows ; those of the currents cftrrying clouds can be observed only when clouds exist in them .
The motion of the observed at Makerstoun only in two days out of five , whereas the ection of the was observed on most days in each year .
This fact may aflect the exactness of the differences for limited periods ; but it will be shown that it affects little the final results .
There is , however , a correction required that should not be neglected .
The observations of cloud-motions were generally during the day , is , on the mean of the year , from This differeme is , I believe , chiefly due to the north-east winds which blow so frequently in these months .
The carried by this current is lowest cloud observed .
This and the cirrus stratum appear generally to be set in motion by diiferent causes ; the cirri move rarely from an easterly point , and the maximum of frequency shown for north-east winds in Great Britain does not appear in the resuIts for the cirrrus stratum Comptes Rendus , lxxxi . .
VOL. Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions .
of [ Peb .
1 , 6 .
to 6 .
Now at Makerstoun during the four years 1843-1846 the mean of the resultant directions for the hours 6 .
to 6 .
was .
Hence we have So many causes may affect the direction of the surface current in certain places that it cannot fail to appear possible , if not probable , that we have here a result depending on local conditions , contour of the country , or accidental causes .
This possibility it is essential to consider .
In the first place it have been remarked that the mean direction of the wind from the four years ' observations , south of west , is the same as has been deduced from the Greenwich observations .
In the next place , the meadirection of the wind for Scotland , deduced from eleven years ' observations ( 1857-1867 ) at 9 .
and 9 , made at Jifty-Jive stations , was south of west* , while at Makerstoun , from observations at the same hours.in the four years , 1843 to 1846 , it was south of west difference of only , which would go to increase that of Fortunately I been able to confirm the result for the difference of directions of the cloud and surface currents by observations made in a very different locality .
M. Quetelet observed the directions of the cloud-motions ( without distinction of species ) at the Brussels Observatory during the years 1833 to 1846 , andhe found the resultant directions by Lambert 's formula as follows In the 7 years 1833 to Do .
1840 to 1846 . . . .
In the 14 years 1833 to 1846 . . . .
, , ; whereas the wind-vane of .
Osler 's anemometer ( which was erected in 1842 ) the direction was found In the 5 years 1842 to 1846 . . . .
A comparison of the numbers of times the clouds and surface-wind had moved from each point of the compass in the five years 1842 to 1846 induced Quetelet to think that the clouds , as well as the resultant surface-wind , had really proceeded from a more southerly point in the preceding years .
Had the eminent director of the Brussels Observatory sought the resultant rections for each year , he would found that marked differences of the direction of motion existed in each of the five years .
I have calculated these directions from Quetelet 's numbers ; they are as follows:\mdash ; the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
If we admit that a correction should be applied , as at Makerstoun , on account of the difference of the direction of the wind during the day when the cloud-motions are observed , we find for Brussels The agreement of the results for the last four years , which are the same as in the preceding discussion , is very remarkable ; thus the direction of the surface-wind at Brussels became more southerly in 1845 than in 1844 , and the direction of the cloud-motion changed exactly by the same number of degrees and in the same direction .
A similar though less marked result will be seen at Makerstoun ( Table the cirri moving from a point more southerly in 1846 in 1845 , while the surface current chnnged in the same direction .
It has been remarked ( p. 531 ) that the wind and cloud directions are not exactly comparable , as the latter cannot be observed so frequently as the former ; this fact has less weight in the results for Brussels in those for Makerstoun , since the former include clouds of all kinds , which are observed much oftener than the cirri alone .
There is , however , another method of ring the directions of motion which employed by me at first in the discussion of the kerstoun observations for 1843 .
The differences of the directions of the surface and cloud currents when observed simultaneously were noted : when severitl such comparisons made successive hours gave nearly the same difference , the mean was termed a " " result when the differences aried considerably two or three resuIts might be obtained in the same day .
From these results for the four years 1843 to 1846 the following mean differences were obtained:\mdash ; The number of results was 359 ; as the motions of tne cirri were observed on 534 days in the four years , there were days on which no surface current was blowing when the motions of the cirri v-ere The small value of for 1842 , compared with those for the following years , may perhaps be dus to some instrumental cause , as this was the first year in which the anemometer was employed .
Mr. J. A. Broun on the Directions .
of [ Feb. 1 , determined .
The numbers of resuIts in 1000 for which was positive negative , or the same are given .
The final value of is the same to a fraction of a degree as that found , p. 532 .
This confirmation is of importance , as it shows that the method of calculating the resultant directions does not affect the accuracy of the final values .
It is probable that this difference between the directions of the cirrus and surface currents not take place per saltem , and that the observations of cloud-motions at different heights should show some variation in the value of .
If we should find that the lowest stratum of clouds , that of scud and cumuli , which may be considered generally at from 2000 to 5000 feet above the ground , has its direction intermediate between that of the cirrus and that of the surface , we shall have a most conclusive proof , were other proof needed , that the differences of motion found are not due to local causes .
In the four years 1843 to 1846 , 339 results were obtained from simultaneous observations of the cumulus and cirrus motions ; from these and comparisons of the other currents the quantities are derived , where , and are the mean .
directions of the cirrus , -stratus , cumulus , and surface currents respectively:\mdash ; The diflerence is somewhat less than hadf of that between the cirrus and surface currents .
As the currents approach each other the differences become smaller , and the relative number of negative results increases .
Thus when we examine the 683 results derived from simultaneous observations of the cirro-stratus and cumulus currents which pass into each other , we find : which is again nearly half the diflerence between the cirrus and cumulus current .
Havin found , I think conclusively , that the differences of motion observed between the surface and cirrus currents are independent of circumstances of locality , we may with confidence examine the results derived from the more numexous comparisons of the surface current with the cirro-stratus and cumulus currents .
Thus we find : 1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
4 .
Oirro-stratus current minus surfaee eurrent .
Number of sults .
Mean differenoe .
Per 1000 .
TotaL 5 .
Cumulus current minus surface urrent .
Number of results .
Mean difference .
Per 1000 .
Toffi .
If we subtract the 5th mean difference from 1st and from the 4th , we find These two mean differences are slightly greater than were found by the direct comparisons 2 and 3 .
If we give the 1st , 4th , and 5th mean differences weights corresponding to the number of results from which they ars obtained , then we find ; and if the three mean differences receive equal weights , ; where ( ) indicates , as before , the mean direction from the north ( th ough east ) of all the species of clouds .
The former of these results may represent approximately the observed difference when no attention has been paid to the species of cloud : the latter may be considered an approximation to the mean difference for the whole mass of air in motion .
Each of these results is somewhat less than that found for Brussels .
We no knowledge of the mean acoording to which the velocity of the air in motion varies with height above the ground .
From previous observations , whils observing the aerial currents at Makerstoun , I had concluded that the maximum velocity occurred rarely at a greater height than 6000 feet , and that the mean stratum of maximum velocity was probably not above 5000 feet .
From this height , then , the velocity diminishes as we ascend and descend , but according to different laws .
At the surfa of level ground the velocity is , on an average , probably not one third of that at the maximum ; the upper limit , where the motion ceases , is in all probability little above the average height of the cirri .
I had frequently observed at Makerstoun that the angular movement of cirri passing through the zenith was generally very much smaller compared with that of the lower clouds than could be explain by the difference of heights had the velocities been the same .
686 Mr. J. A. Broun on the [ Feb. 1 , If we remember the increased dimensions of unit of mass of the atmosphere as we ascend and take the equation , where is the unit of mass , the velocity at a height the number of units in .
the vertical column in motion , and the sum of the units of in the column into their velocities , then it seems probable that the height will not be higher than the stratum of the cirro-stratus , nor lower than that of the scud and cumulus .
In all probab , then , we shaU have between and ; and there cannot be any considerable error in concluding that for the height approximately* .
It be remembered that we have already found ( p. 526 ) that ; and since , the direction of the surface current , appears similarly in this and in the preceding equation , we have approximately Or , That the average direction of the isobaric lines direction of the mass of air in motion are approximately the same .
Cause of the difference between the direction of the noiion of the upper and lower currents.\mdash ; In the preceding investigation we have bsen occupied simply with numerical relations following directly from observations made without reference to any hypothesis .
It will be easy , however , to show that the results obtained relatively to the different directions of motion of the atmospheric currents are in strict conformity with the reasoning of writers on this subject , from Hadley to JIerschel .
Putting aside altogether the hypothetical ascending and descending currents of air , which were first suggested by Hooke , and for which have no evidence whatever , we owe to Hadley the first indication of the we consider the mean value of for eaoh stratum to be half that at the upper and lower limits ( it should probably be more than half ) , and assume that for the stratum above the cirri to be ( for the cirri being ) , we have\mdash ; Soil to scud and cumulus stratum Scud .
and oumulus to cirro-stratus Cirro-stratus to cirrus Cirrus to upper limit of motion , and give to each equal weight , we find the mean , There is no hypothesis that can be proposed , founded on the obsorved differences , which could affict the final resnlts to any considerable extent , nor the conclusion which is deduoed from it .
The difference deduced from the observations at Makerstoun , conflrmed approximately by those at Brussels , being supposed to hold at Greenwich and Dublin .
1877 .
] the Lines of equal Barometric Pressure .
537 fact , that if a mass of air changes its latitude , from whatever cause , it win not proceed in the dirsction in which it was originally propelled or drawn ; but if it passes to a higher latitude the motion be towards a point more easterly , and if to a lower latitude towards a point more westerly than the original direction ; that is , in our hemisphere the ultimate direction of motion will be positive of the original direction .
The friction of ths moving mass of against the earth 's surface is always recognized as a cause which diminishes the amount of this displacement .
Thus Hadley , on the lower currents from the tropics towards the equator:\mdash ; " " Before the air from the tropics can arrive at the equator , it muqt have gained some motion from the surface of the earth or sea whereby its relative motion will be diminished\ldquo ; * .
The upper current moving towards the north is supposed by him to preserve its excess of velocity it descends .
So Sir John Herschel on the sams hypothetical upper current:\mdash ; " " In flowing over to regain its level , it commences its course relatively in a meridional direction , but really with the full amonnt of east velocity which the earth 's equator has ; and sincs this , as it proceeds north or southwards , is in excess of what would suffice to keep it om the same meridian , it continually deviates to the westward [ .
the direction from which it appsars to proceed ] ; and when it again returns to the earth in its circulation , which it does on both sides beyond the tropics , it does so with a powerful westward tendency , and the more , as in its course it has bun less under the influence of surface friction owing to the elevated region in it has travelled\ldquo ; .
I hays put in itahcs the explanation of the differencs of directions of the currents found by me .
The theory of the trade-winds is so mixed up with unknown currents , ascending and descending , and presents so many other difficulties as usually stated , that it is not easy to determine what may be due to differences of latitude velocity , and what to other causes in the production of winds with definite directions in diflerent parts of the globe .
It is not a little remarkable , however , that no writer , as far as I am aware , had perceived that if the difference of latitude velocity affected the direction of motion of a tical mass of air , this fact should be observed at once , especially in middle latitudes , in the movements of the wind and of the clouds .
If , as Sir John Herschel shows , lower stratum of a mass of air moving northwards has its tendency to move eastwards most diminished , this diminution will be communicated dually by the viscosity of the air from layer to layer till the upper stratum of the mass in motion is attained where " " the Auencs of the surface-friction\ldquo ; is .
We *Phil .
Trans. 1735 , p. 61 .
Meteorology , by Sir J. Herschel , 1861 , p. 69 .
It is always understood that friction diminishes the velocity in all directions ; but cause which propels or draws a mass of air from ono latitude to another is probably oontinuous for some time at least .
638 On the Lines of equal have here at once an explanation .
by me , and a proof of the conservation of the excess defect if proceeding towards the equator ) of the initial latitude velocity ; that is to say , another proof of the earth 's rotation .
It is obvious that this explanation refers only to the mass of air set in motion by the same cause ; it is probable , however , that the lower and upper strata are frequently propelled in different directions .
This is evident in case already noticed of the north-east winds and cirrus currents ( footnote , p. 531 ) ; and is shown without doubt in the cases .
for which the upper currents proceed from points negative of the lower currents .
I may also remark that the differemce of direction of these currents will depend on the nature of the surface and on the difference of latitudes of the place from which the air originally started and the place over which it is moving .
It is probably due to this cause that the difference is found greatest for winds from the southern quadrants ; but this difference and its relation to will be considersd in a special investigation .
It is not my intention at present to enter into the many consequences which follow from the facts developed in this paper .
It is evident that they indicate a wholly new theory of the circulation the atmosphere .
It was believed that the air was continually iiowiug into atmospheric basins ; and as the barometer gave no indication of the fact , it became a logical necessity , as the air could not flow out below , that it must rush up above and flow off in still more rapid urrents in directions for which there was neither law nor reason .
It appears that the air does not pour into these basins , but that it moves as a whole in the directions of equal pressure .
Postscriptum.\mdash ; I have remarked ( see foobnote , p. 526 ) , on Mr. Buchan 's authority , that Dr. Buys-Ballot had found the direction of the wind relatively to that of the isobars to be between and , giving an ave- rage of .
Mr. Buchan informs me ( in a le , tter dated Dec. 27 , 1876 ) that this result was communicated to him by letter .
I owe also , at the same time , to the eminent Scottish meteorologist the communication of a similar investigation b-v the Bev .
W. Olement Ley , some of whose results I am glad to be able to add to this paper .
Mr. Clement Ley has projected the isobarics obtained from the observations for one hour made at 15 stations , telegraphed daily : by means of a graduated circle he obtained approximately the directions of the at each place ( for three months nearly ) .
These directions then compared with the telegraphed wind directions , which were given to two points of the compass only ; he found the average inclination of the wind to the isobar to at the different places from to , and that the mean of the whole gave nearly .
Considering the many.sources of error in the telegraphed observations , 1877 On the Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency .
589 especially in those for the direction of the win at a single hour , the agreement of the final result with Dr. Buys-Ballot 's mean ( obtained probably in the same way ) , and that found here by awholly different method , is very satisfactory .
One of the most interesting parts of Mr. Clement Ley 's paper is the confirmation given , by so zealous and accurate an observer , of the results relating to the different directions of the aerial currsnts discovered by me upwards of thirty years ago .
The author remarks , \mdash ; " " From many thousands of observations made at well-exposed situations in the Midland Counties of England , I have found that in about seven cases out of eight , with a light air or moderate wind , if the observer exactly face the wind on the earth 's surface , he finds the current in clouds of no great altitude overhead to be a little from his right .
This difference , it may be remarked , is commonly greatest and most uniformly noticed in or rainy weather with S.W. or S.E. winds\ldquo ; * .
That is to say , is positive , and most so in the south quadrants .
These results are in exact conformity with those obtained from the Makerstoun obssrvations Mr. Clement Ley also finds the difference of dirsction between the isobars and wind to be greatest in the south quadrants ( a result which I proposed to examine specially , p. 538 ) ; but he does not seem to have remarked the important fact of the coincidence in the increase of and .
I recommend Mr. Clement Ley 's instructivs paper to the attention of meteorologists .
II .
" " The Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency By CHARLES CHAMBERS , , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Received January 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This work consists of four parts\mdash ; the first dealing with registrations of meteorological phenomena at the Colaba Observatory during a period of twenty-seven years ; the second with moderately full observations at five military stations in the Bombay Presidency during a period of nine- teen years ; and the third large numbers of observations from civil hospitals and revenue stations , being those of seIected registers extending oYer various periods from not less than a fortnight up to a number of years : in this part the phenomena treated are temperature of the air , winds , and rainfall only ; and the extent of territory to which the observations refer includes the whole of the Presidency , Sind , and the westeln of the Scottish Meteorologioal Society , July 1873 , p. 70 .
" " Results of Makel.stoun Observations Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
1843 to 1846 , pp.

