III .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Sound .
" By the Rev. S. EARNSHAW .
Communicated by Professor W. H. MILLER , For .
Sec. R.S. Received November 20 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The principal feature of this communication is the discovery of an integral of a certain class of differential equations .
This class includes , as a particular case , the differential equation of motion when a disturbance is transmitted through a uniform elastic medium confined in a horizontal tube .
If the equation dy-=F( die be differendt\dx tiated with regard to t , it produces the equation d2y _dd2 which , by means of the general function F , can be made to coincide which , by means of the general function F ' , can be made to coincide with any proposed differential equation in which the ratio between d2y and die is dependent on die only .
The integral obtained in this dt2 dx dx manner is that which arises from the elimination of ( a ) between the two following equations , y=ca+F ( a ) .
t+(a ) , 0o= +F t(a ) t+ 04 ( a ) .
This integral , though not found by the direct integration of the differential equation , and though evidently not the general symbolical integral of it , is proved to be the general integral for wavemotion , from its affording the means of satisfying all the necessary equations of initial disturbance and wave-motion .
The author first discusses wave-motion when temperature is supposed to be unaffected by the passage of a wave ; and then when the change of temperature is allowed for .
The most important result in the former case is the relation between pressure and velocity , which is shown to be that which is expressed by the equation from which several new results are obtained .
With respect to the velocity of sound , which has hitherto been found experimentally to exceed the velocity obtained by theory , it is shown that the value obtained by approximative methods is the minimum limit of sound-velocity , so that the actual velocity will always be greater ; the excess depending upon the intensity and genesis of the sound .
It is shown that all the parts of a wave do not travel at the same rate , -a circumstance which leads to the formation of a bore in the front of the wave .
Several previously unexplained phenomena , which have been recorded by different experimentalists , such as double reports of fire-arms heard at a great distance , the outrunning of one sound by another observed by Capt. Parry , the comparative powers of different gases of transmitting sounds , and the laws of transmission of sound from one medium to another , are accounted for in this paper , and directly deduced from the integral of the equation of wave-motion .

