336 Mr. E. Schunck .
[ May 7 Table VI.\#151 ; Solubility of Calcium Sulphate in Water in presence of various proportions of Calcium Chloride .
Temperature 20 ' .
Parts of CaCl2 in 100 water .
Parts of CaS04 in 100 water .
o-oo 11 *50 14 *39 19 -80 51 -00 67 *05 .225 .078 .063 .041 .000 .000 The addition of common salt , therefore , increases the solubility of calcium sulphate until the proportion of salt to water is 20 or 25 to 100 .
A larger quantity diminishes the solubility .
Calcium chloride added to solution of calcium sulphate causes steady decrease of solubility , till when the proportion amounts to about 50 to 100 water the sulphate is practically insoluble .
These results are very plainly observable in the accompanying curve ( Fig. 3 ) .
III .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
Part I. " By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper treats of the products formed by the action of acids on chlorophyll .
All who have worked with chlorophyll are familiar with the peculiar effects produced in solutions of chlorophyll by the action of acids .
The colour is changed , and an absorption spectrum makes its appearance which differs from that of chlorophyll .
According to some , these changes are due to a simple modification of the chlorophyll , others consider they are caused by the formation of products of decomposition .
The latter view seems the more probable .
On passing a current of hydrochloric acid gas into an alcoholic solution of chlorophyll , a dark green , almost black , precipitate is formed at once .
The greenish-yellow liquid contains substances extracted along with chlorophyll by the alcohol , .and not connected with the latter .
The precipitate consists essentially of two colouring matters , phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin , bodies that had been previously observed and so named by Fremy , who however did not obtain them in a state of purity .
They are best separated by Fremy 's method , which consists in dissolving the mixture in ether and then adding concentrated hydrochloric acid , when the liquid separates into two layers , a lower blue one containing phyllocyanin , and an upper yellowish-green one containing phylloxanthin .
It is immaterial what 1885.1 The Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
kind of leaves are taken for extraction , the products are always the same .
The paper deals only with the properties of phyllocyanin , which are very peculiar .
After being purified in the manner described , it is obtained as a dark blue mass resembling indigo , and consisting of microscopic crystals which are generally opaque , but sometimes when very thin are translucent , and then appear olive-coloured .
It stands heating to 160 ' without decomposition , but between that temperature and 180 ' it is decomposed without previously fusing , leaving a charred mass which on further heating burns away without residue .
It contains nitrogen , but is free from sulphur .
Phyllocyanin is insoluble in water , petroleum ether , and ligroin , but dissolves in alcohol , ether , chloroform , glacial acetic acid , benzol , aniline , and carbon disulphide .
The best solvent is chloroform .
A minute quantity of the substance imparts an intense colour to any one of these solvents .
It is only on diluting largely that the solutions lose their opacity .
They then appear of a dull green or olive colour , and show the well-known and often described spectrum of so-called " acid chlorophyll , " consisting of five bands , three of which are very dark , one of moderate intensity , and the fifth very faint .
By oxidising agents , such as nitric or chromic acid , phyllocyanin is easily decomposed , yielding yellow amorphous products , the solutions of which show no absorption bands .
It shows a remarkable degree of permanence as compared with chlorophyll , when exposed to the combined action of air and light .
A chloroformic solution contained in a loosely stoppered bottle may be exposed for weeks or even months to alternate sunlight and diffused daylight before its peculiar colour and all trace of absorption bands have disappeared .
When the process is complete a yellow liquid results , which contains several products , all of them amorphous , one being easily soluble in water and exceedingly bitter to the taste .
The decoloration of a chlorophyll solution under the same circumstances would take place in a day or two .
A small quantity of bromine added to a chloroformic solution of phyllocyanin changes the colour to a bright grass-green , which exactly resembles that of a chlorophyll solution .
By a further addition of bromine , the solution loses its green colour and acquires a reddish hue ; it now shows the same spectrum as a phyllocyanin solution ; but the bands are all shifted towards the red end .
An excess of bromine produces no further change .
On passing chlorine gas through the solution in chloroform , it passes through the same phases of colour , first becoming grass-green , then reddish , but a further change takes place on continuing to pass chlorine through the solution , which now becomes yellow , finally pale yellow , all traces of absorption bands at the same time disappearing .
The products both with bromine and chlorine are amorphous .
338 Mr. E. Schunck .
[ May 7 Phyllocyanin dissolves easily in concentrated sulphuric , hydrochloric and hydrobromic acids , yielding dark blue solutions , which show spectra differing from that of phyllocyanin , and no doubt contain compounds of the latter with acids .
These compounds however are unstable , for on the addition of water to the solutions , phyllocyanin is precipitated unchanged .
Phyllocyanin shows no tendency to combine with weaker acids , such as phosphoric , oxalic , tartaric , or citric acid .
Phyllocyanin dissolves easily in 'dilute caustic potash or soda lye .
The solution gives precipitates of various shades of green with earthy and metallic salts , such as barium chloride , calcium chloride , lead acetate , and cupric acetate , and these might be called phyllocyanates .
It seems however that by mere solution in alkali , phyllocyanin undergoes some change , for if acetic acid in excess be added to the solution and it be then shaken up with ether , the precipitate dissolves in the ether , giving a solution which shows the bands of phyllocyanin , but if the whole be left to stand some time , the colour of the ethereal solution changes from green to brown , and it now shows a distinct and peculiar spectrum , characterised by two bands in the red and two fine but well-marked bands in the green , the third and fourth bands of phyllocyanin having disappeared , while the fifth still remains .
The body yielding this spectrum has been prepared and found to yield microscopic crystals like phyllocyanin .
A different product is formed when hot alkaline lye , or , what is better , boiling alcoholic potash or soda is employed .
It crystallises in small rosettes , which are green by transmitted , of a fine purple by reflected light .
Its solutions have a dull purple colour , and exhibit a distinct spectrum characterised by a broad very dark band in the green .
It may be identical with one of the products obtained by Hoppe-Seyler from his chlorophyllan with alkalis .
The action of aniline on phyllocyanin is peculiar and interesting .
When the two are heated together in a sealed tube to 130 ' the phyllocyanin disappears entirely , giving several products , one of which is colourless and crystallises in white needles .
The second , which may be an anilide , yields solutions which are quite red , and show a characteristic spectrum having three fine but distinct bands in the red , and three other very strong bands , one in the , yellow , one in the green , and one at the edge of the blue .
No similar compound is formed when ammonia is used in place of aniline .
The concluding part of the paper treats of what may be called double compounds of phyllocyanin , into which metals and acids , especially organic acids , enter as constituents .
Phyllocyanin seems to act the part of a weak base , uniting with strong acids and forming unstable compounds .
In acetic acid it merely dissolves without yielding any compound .
In like manner , when freshly precipitated 1885.1 The Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
cupric oxide or zinc oxide is added to a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling alcohol no combination takes place .
A very different effect is observed when either of the two oxides is employed along with acetic acid .
When cupric oxide is added to a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling acetic acid the solution acquires at once a deep greenish-blue colour , and it no longer contains uncombined phyllocyanin , for its spectrum is different , and on standing it deposits lustrous crystals , which doubtless consist of a compound containing phyllocyanin , acetic acid , and copper .
If zinc okide be employed a similar effect is observed , the liquid acquires an intense green colour like that of a chlorophyll solution , and now contains the corresponding acetate of phyllocyanin and zinc .
The same phenomenon is seen when ferrous oxide , manganese oxide , or silver oxide is taken , liquids of various shades of green being obtained which contain pbyllocyanin compounds , but no similar compounds are formed when potassium , sodium , barium , calcium , magnesium , or lead acetate is employed .
Acetic acid is , however , not the only acid which yields the reaction .
If palmitic , stearic , oleic , tartaric , citric , malic , or phosphoric acid be employed , it takes place just as with acetic acid , but in some cases time is required for its completion .
Oxalic acid , however , seems to be without effect , and tartaric acid fails in some cases .
The various compounds have a number of properties in common , though the several classes differ , inter se , in some important particulars .
They all dissolve more or less readily in alcohol , ether , chloroform , benzol , and carbon disulphide , but are all insoluble in water with the exception of the phyllocyanin manganese acetate , which dissolves readily therein .
The solutions have a green colour varying from grass-green , like that of chlorophyll solutions , to a fine bluish-green or blue , and they show peculiar spectra .
The alcoholic solutions remain unchanged when sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through them , no precipitate is formed , and the solutions on evaporation leave the various compounds with their original properties .
It is only on incineration that the presence of metallic constituents is detected .
Lastly , they are all soluble in dilute alkaline lies , and are reprecipitated unchanged on the addition of acetic acid .
These reactions make it somewhat doubtful whether these compounds are to be considered as double salts in the ordinary acceptance , and whether the metallic constituents may not rather be contained in them somewhat in the same way as the iron in hematin .
Of the various compounds those belonging to the cupric class are the most stable ; they are not decomposed by boiling hydrochloric acid .
The zinc compounds , on the other hand , are very readily decomposed by hydrochloric acid , yielding phyllocyanin .
The behaviour of phyllocyanin towards zinc oxide in the presence of acids may serve to explain a peculiar phenomenon first observed by 340 Mr. J. T. Bottomley .
[ May 7 Professor Church , and subsequently described by Tschirch .
The former took chlorophyll that had become brown on standing , and acting on it with zinc powder .obtained a body yielding green solutions , which he took to be regenerated chlorophyll .
Tschirch acted on Hoppe-Seyler 's chlorophyllan with zinc powder and observed the same phenomena , the conclusion at which he arrived being the same , viz. , that chlorophyll is reproduced from chlorophyllan by reduction .
It is probable , however , that what they obtained was in reality a zinc compound of phyllocyanin , and would have been formed just as well by using zinc oxide .
Chlorophyllan is probably an impure substance containing some fatty acid along with phyllocyanin , so that by the action of zinc oxide it may yield a compound similar to those above mentioned .
The experiment was tried with the crude product obtained by passing hydrochloric acid gas into a solution of chlorophyll .
Some of this was dissolved in alcohol , and the solution was boiled with zinc oxide , when it gradually became of a bright green like a solution of chlorophyll , but its spectrum differed , being identical with that of the zinc compounds obtained directly from phyllocyanin .
IV .
" On the Electric Resistance of a New Alloy named Platinoid .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson .
Received May 5 , 1885 .
Read May 7 , 1885 .
In the course of a series of experiments on the electric resistance of various metals and alloys , and in particular on the variation of the electric resistance of these metals and alloys with temperature , I have examined a new alloy ( called by the inventor platinoid ) , which has turned out to have important properties .
This alloy is the invention of Mr. F. W. Martino , of Sheffield ; and I have to acknowledge my indebtedness to Mr. Martino for having provided me with specimens of his new alloy and given me information regarding it ; and for having supplied me with wires specially drawn down to the finer gauges for my experiments .
The inventor , searching experimentally for a means of rendering tarnishable metals and alloys less tarnishable , had satisfied himself that the addition of pure metallic tungsten imparted greater density to alloys , and likewise less tendency to oxidation .
Having found a mode of combining a small quantity of tungsten with copper , nickel , and zinc , he produced a white alloy resembling the alloys of silver , which proved very little tarnishable under atmospheric

