III .
" 'On a Class of Differential Equations , including those which occur in Dynamical Problems."-Part II .
By W. F. DONKIN , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , Savilian Professor of Astronomy in the University of Oxford .
Received February 17 , 1855 .
This is the second and concluding part of a paper of which the first part was printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1854 .
In the fourth section ( the first of this part ) some of the most important results of the former part are recapitulated .
In the fifth section the theory of the Variation of Elements is considered under that aspect which belongs to it in connexion with the general methods of this paper ; and the facility of its application is shown in two instances : ( 1 ) the expressions for the variations of the elliptic elements of a disturbed planet 's orbit are deduced from the results of Art .
30 ( Part I. ) , on undisturbed elliptic motion ; ( 2 ) the problem of determining the motion of a free simple pendulum ( omitting the effect of the earth 's rotation ) is treated by considering the orbit of the projection of the bob upon a horizontal plane as a disturbed ellipse .
The differential equations which define the variations of the elemeints of the ellipse are given in a rigorous form , and integrated approximately so as to give the motion of the apsides of the mean ellipse in any case where the pendulum never deviates much from the vertical , and the motion is not very nearly circular .
The resuilt agrees with the conclusions of the Astronomer Royal ( Proceedings of the Royal Astronomical Society , vol. xi .
p. 160 ) .
In the fifth section the transformation of the differential equations by the substitution of new ' variables is considered , and particularly that kind of transformation , called by the author a normal transformation , which leads to a new system of equations , not merely possessing the same general form as the old , but distinguished also by other common properties .
A definition is given of those transformations which may be properly called , from analogy , transformations of coordinates , and it is shown that all transformations of coordinates are normal .
General formulae are given for transforming the equations of any dynamical problem from fixed or moving systems of axes of coordinates ; and an illustration is drawn from the case of the motion of a planiet referred to axes in the varying plane of its own orbit .
In the seventh and last section the principles of transformation developed in the preceding section are applied in a more general manner to the differential equations of the planetary theory ; and it is shown that when the motions of a planetary system are referred to a system of rectangular axes having their origin in the sun , and otherwise moving in any arbitrary manner , the variations of the elements will still be determined by the .
same formule as if the axes were fixed , provided there be added to the disturbing function R , for each planet , the expression Vpa(i-e9 ) .
( wo sin v sin i-w , cos v sin i+ w2 cos ) , in which i is the inclination of the orbit to the ( moving ) plane of xy , the longitude of the node reckoned from the axisof x , and wo , WI ) W2 ; the angular velocities of the moving system of axes about the three axes themselves .
In this expression wo , WI ) w2 may be any arbitrary functionis either of the time or of the elements ; but in any case these functions are to be exempted from differentiation with respect to the elements in taking the partial differential coefficients of .
the disturbing function .
This result is illustrated by referring the motion of a system consisting of two planets to axes so chosen that the plane of xy shall always coincide with the principalplane of the system , and the axis of x , from which all longitudes are reckoned , shall always coincide with the line of nodes ; there are thus obtained twelve rigorous simultaneous differential equations , of which nine form a system apart , containing only the major axes , excentricities , epochs , longitudes of perihelia , and mutual inclination of the two orbits , and afford an example of the so-called " elimination of the nodes ; ` whilst the remaining three ( which contain also these nine elements , but not their differential coefficients ) determine the motion of the principal plane and of the line of nodes , relatively to fixed space .
The mutual inclination of the two orbits being supposed known , their several inclinations to the principal plane are given by simple relations ; and the positions of the planets in their orbits ( their longitudes reckoned from the lilne of niodes ) being supposed known , their motionis relatively to fixed space would thus be completely determined .

