Further Observations on Planarie .
By J. R. Johnson , M.D. F.R.S. Read March 10 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 247 .
] In an account of some species of Planariwa , published by Mr. Dalzell of Edinburgh , that gentleman observed , that in one of these insects which he had intentionally wounded a little below the head , an unnatural prominence soon appeared at the wounded part , which in about four weeks assumed the characters of a new head , and was soon after very distinctly recognised as such .
Anxious to verify so singular a result , Dr. Johnson took 100 active Planarie cornzute , and made in each an incision on the side of the body .
In one instance only he obtained the desired result , in most of them the wounds healed .
In some , praeternatural excrescences took place , and others separated at the place of incision to become two animals .
One only acquired a double head .
It appears , therefore , to be so unusual an occurrence as to deserve the attention of the Royal Society .
Dr. Johnson proceeds to some additional observations respecting the propagation of certain species of this curious tribe of insects .
In regard to the Planarice cornutw , he found that they were more rapidly reproductive by the detachment of fragments when kept singly than when several are preserved in the same vessel , owing , he says , to the necessity then existing of continuing the species ; hence he also infers , that the regenerative process is voluntary .
The Planariae kept together , ultimately threw off as many reproductive portions as the others , and these he thinks may probably amount to about 20 in eight months for each insect .
The smallest visible portion detached from the tail becomes a perfect Planaria , but in this case the animal is so small as to suggest the probability of the parent animal being viviparous.-Dr .
Johnson concludes this paper with some observations on the Planaria nigra , the details of which are illustrated by an annexed drawing .
Like the species formerly described , it is furnished with an abdominal proboscis , bywhich it takes its food ; it is oviparous , each producing from 2 to 6 young ; it does not spontaneously divide into regenerative portions like the Planaria cornuta , but has an equal power of repairing mutilated parts .

