208 Prof. J. A. Me William .
[ May 17 , simultaneous motor discharge from a nerve centre to all the muscular fibres ; the contraction is , on the other hand , a progressive process passing over the auricular walls in a wave-like fashion .
9 .
A reversal of the normal sequence of the heart 's contraction can be induced and kept up for a considerable time by applying to the ventricles a series of single stimulations ( e.g. , induction shocks ) at a rate somewhat more rapid than that of the spontaneous rhythm of the organ .
Y , 6"Inhibition of the Mammalian Heart " By John A. Mo William , M.D. , Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. .
R.S , Received May 3 , 1888 .
The following conclusions are based upon a* long series of experiments performed upon the cat , dog , rabbit , rat , hedgehog , and guinea-pig , the cat being the animal commonly used .
The animals were anesthetized , usually with chloroform ; artificial respiration was kept up ; the thorax and often the pericardial sac were laid open , and the action of the heart was examined ' with the aid of the graphic method , { Section af the Vagif The results of section of both vagi vary according to the conditions obtaining at the time the nerves are cut\#151 ; according to the amount of controlling influence exercised by the* medullary cardio-inhibitory centre upon the heart , When the cardio-inhibitory centre is inactive , section of the vagi causes no appreciable change in the heart 's action .
On the other hand , section of the nerves* at a time when the controlling influence of the medullary centre is acting to a decided extent , is followed by very pronounced results\#151 ; by an increase not only in the rate of the cardiac beat , , but also in the contraction force of both the auricles and the ventricles .
There is a marked augmentation in the strength of the beats ; the change in the energy of the auricular contractions is usually more extensive than that occurring in the case of the ventricles , Stimulation of the Vagus Nerve , The latent period of vagus stimulation varies remarkably in different conditions ; there is often a period of many seconds before the heart stands still .
When the vagus nerve is stimulated so as to slow the heart , it is usually seen that the inhibitory influence is not of maximal intensity at its first manifestation , but goes on increasing for some time .
1888 .
] Inhibition of the Mammalian Heart , 209 Effects of Vo jus Stimulation on the 1 .
The vagus appears as a rule to influence the auricles more readily and more powerfully than the ventricles , .
2 .
Vagus stimulation leads to a slowing or an arrest of the rhythmic heat , and a very marked weakening , of the contraction force .
The recommencing auricular beats that occur when the period of inhibition is passing away are- very .
weak ; , and any contractions excited by direct stimulation ( e.p. , with induction shocks ) during the period of standstill are strikingly enfeebled , 3 .
Vagus stimulation causes a pronounced depression of the excitability of the auricular tissue to direct stimulation .
During the period , of inhibition resulting , from vagus stimulation it is much more difficult than usual to excite an auricular beat by direct excitation ; a much stronger stimulus is necessary to elicit any contraction at all4 .
The tone of the auricular muscle appears to be markedly diminished .
5 .
These results occur when the vagus is stimulated , even when the superior \#171 ; .nd inferior venae cavae have been clamped , so that the cavities of the heart are no longer filled with blood .
6 .
The vagus nerve seems to* exert a powerful influence of a more or less direct nature on the muscle itself , not merely by inhibiting or weakening the motor impulses which are commonly assumed to pass from nerve centres in the heart to the muscular fibres , For if it were true that the vagus acted simply by depressing the motor centres of the heart , it is very difficult to conceive , how the responsiveness of the auricular muscle to direct stimuli should be so greatly diminished , and how the contraction force-should be so strikingly reduced when the auricular muscle is made to contract by induction shocks applied to the auricular tissue .
It would seem that whatever changes the vagus may induce in the nerve-cells and ganglia occurring plentifully in the auricles , it can also exert an important influence on the contractile tissue itself .
7 .
Upon the whole , the influence of the vagus nerve upon the mammalian auricles presents a close parallelism to what holds good in the auricles of many cold-blooded animals .
- Effects of Vagus Stimulation on the Besides causing slowness , or standstill , the vagus can cause other important changes in the ventricular part of the heart* 1 .
The contraction force is markedly diminished. .
When a period of standstill has ended , the recommencing beats are usually weak ?
and beats excited by direct stimulation ( e.y. , single induction shocks ) during the period of standstill are of diminished size .
210 Prof. J. A. McWilliam .
[ May 17 , When vagus stimulation does not cause complete standstill , but only a marked slowing , the strength of the slow ventricular heats is usually much less than the normal .
The reduction in contraction force does not hear any constant relation to the degree of slowing .
While dll the slowheats are weakened in some degree , a heat occurring after a long pause is sometimes decidedly stronger than one occurring after a shorter pause ; on the other hand the converse more often holds good\#151 ; a heat occurring after a long pause is weaker than a beat occurring after a shorter pause .
The depression of contraction force does not appear-to depend on over-distension of the ventricles during the slowing or standstill ; nor upon the fall of arterial pressure that occurs and involves a diminished resistance to the ventricular systole and a Change in the coronary circulation .
The force-depressing effects of vagus stimulation can still he seen ( 1 ) when the superior and inferior venae cavae have been clamped ; or ( 2 ) when the pulmonary artery or ( 3 ) the aorta has been clamped ; or 'i(4 ) when all these vessels have been clamped before " the vagus stimulation .
2 .
When slowing or arrest of the ventricular action occurs as a result of vagus stimulation , there is a marked change in the shape and \#166 ; duration of the ventricular curves ; the degree of change stands in .close relation to the length of the pause preceding each heat .
The curves become broader near the top , and their duration is increased .
The longer the interval preceding a curve the broader the eurve is , .and the more markedly is it prolonged .
These features are not abolished when the superior and inferior venae cavae have been damped before the vagus stimulation ; nor when the aorta or the pulmonary .artery , or all these vessels , have been clamped .
3 .
The vagus appears to inhibit the spontaneous rhythmic tendency inherent in the ventricles* ; the ventricular standstill does not appear to be due simply to the standstill of the rest of the heart .
4 .
Afc the same time the absence of auricular beats of any considerable strength is usually a necessary condition for the occurrence of a protracted ventricular standstill .
It commonly but not invariably happens that if the auricles are artificially excited to contract during the period of cardiac standstill ; the ventricles beat also in sequence to the artificially excited auricular contraction .
5 .
When the heart begins to beat after a period of inhibition , the 'Order of contraction most 'commoiily seen is that which obtains normally\#151 ; ostial parts of .the great veins ; auricles ; veritricftes .
But sometimes the Ventricles recommence , and give one or more beats ' before any contraction-occurs in the other parts of the heart .
6 .
There are sometimes- seen evidences of the occurrence under vagus influence of .
a block in the propagation of ft he contraction from 1888.1 Inhibition of the Mammalian Heart .
auricles to ventricles .
At certain phases of vagus stimulation the ventricles often fail to respond to auricular beats , while at the same time there is evidence to show that this is due not to a depression of the ventricular excitability , but to a break in the transmission of the contraction from the auricles .
7 .
The maximum intensity of the inhibitory influence exerted by vagus stimulation often obtains at the same time in the auricles and the ventricles .
But frequently the auricles become greatly depressed , while the ventricular beats are of undiminished size , or are only beginning to be affected ; in rare cases the ventricular contraction force becomes reduced more suddenly than the auricular .
8 .
The effects of vagus stimulation on the ventricles may be in some measure counteracted by the application to the ventricular surface of a series of stimulations ( e.g. , single induction shocks ) at about the normal rate of the heart 's action .
An artificially excited series of beats is thus caused ; these beats give curves of approximately normal form and duration , and they are much stronger than any slowly occurring spontaneous beats that appear after the standstill has lasted for some time ; they are also much stronger than single beats excited ( by induction shocks ) at long intervals during the standstill .
The beats of the artificially excited series ( at normal rate ) are still decidedly weaker than normal beats .
On the Existence of a Local " Inhibitory Area " the Heart .
By stimulation of a certain locality on the dorsal aspect of the auricular surface , certain striking effects are obtained .
In the cat and dog the area in question is elongated in shape , and is situated over the inter-auricular septum , its long axis running parallel with the plane of the septum .
It extends downwards to within a short distance of the coronary sinus .
At the right side of the area lies the termination of the vena cava inferior .
Many nerves course downwards through this region ; there are also numerous nerve-cells and ganglia .
These , however , are not confined to the area in question , but occur in considerable number over the dorsal aspect of the left ventricle , especially in its septal half .
The nerves appear to be derived to a considerable extent from the left vagus .
The majority of the fibres are non-medullated , but medullated fibres are also present ( cat ) .
Ganglia occur in special abundance near the artriculo-ventricular groove .
Stimulation of this area with an interrupted current gives results * that stand out in sharp contrast to those obtained by stimulating other parts of the auricular wall , e.g. , the appendix .
Stimulation of the latter causes an acceleration of both auricles and ventricles .
The auricles contract with great rapidity , so that they present a peculiar VOL. XLiv .
Q 212 Prof. J. A. McWilliam .
[ May 17 } fluttering appearance ; the ventricles heat much more rapidly than before , though they do not keep pace with the auricles .
On the other hand , stimulation of the inhibitory area , while it causes a rapid fluttering action of the auricles , induces either a very marked slowing , or a complete standstill in the ventricles .
This result is a mixed one\#151 ; ventricular inhibition , resulting from stimulation of certain structures in the inhibitory area , and auricular acceleration , in all probability due to an escape of the stimulating current to the excitable auricular tissue .
The inhibitory effects on the ventricle much resemble those caused by vagus stimulation .
There is depression of the ventricular contraction force , and changes in the shape and duration of the ventricular curves similar to those occurring under vagus influence .
Stimulation of the inhibitory area and of the vagus are both rendered ineffective by the administration of atropine .
But there are certain points of difference :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The strength of current necessary to inhibit the ventricles is very much less when the current is applied to the inhibitory area than when it is applied to the vagus .
( 2 .
) Stimulation of the inhibitory area remains effective in arresting the ventricular action , after curare has been administered in such amount as to cause stimulation of one or both vagi in the neck to be entirely without inhibitory result .
( 3 .
) In many instances when the vagi have become exhausted , or have lost their inhibitory power from less definite causes , the inhibitory area remains effective .
It seems clear from the very different relation borne by the inhibitory area to certain poisons , to the strength of stimulating current necessary , to exhaustion , \amp ; c. , that in exciting this area we are dealing with structures of a more or less special nature , differing markedly in their character from the ordinary inhibitory fibres running in the trunks of the vagus nerves .
The important structures of the inhibitory area are situated superficially ; they may be readily paralysed by the application of a few drops of a 4 per cent , solution of cocaine hydrochlorate , or of strong ammonia .
The region in question does not contain a motor centre for the heart muscle .
Destruction of this area does not arrest the spontaneous rhythm of the organ ( which indeed originates in parts some distance removed from the inhibitory area , viz. , in the ostial parts of the great veins , especially the vena cava superior and the pulmonary veins ) .
Nor is the propagation of the contraction from one part of the heart to another in any way deranged or interfered with .
The inhibitory area probably contains structures to which many at 1888 .
] On the Electric Organ of Raia circularis .
213 least of the inhibitory fibres of the vagus go , there to come into intimate relation with the cardiac mechanism .
Effect of Stimulation of Ostial Parts of Great Veins in certain Abnormal Conditions .
At certain stages of the process of asphyxia , and in the dying heart , there is often seen a very remarkable alteration in the behaviour of the ostial parts of the great veins towards direct stimulation with interrupted currents .
In such circumstances , an inhibition of the spontaneous rhythmic action of these parts may otten be seen as a result of direct stimulation , whereas in the normal state such a stimulation is productive of immediate and striking acceleration .
VI .
" On the Structure of the Electric Organ of Raia By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper gives an account of the structure of the cup-shaped bodies , which , as mentioned in a previous paper read 26th April , 1888 , make up the electric organs of certain members of the skate family .
The structure of these electric cups has been already studied in three species of skate , viz. : Raia R. radiata , and R. circularis .
The present paper only deals with the electric organ of R. circularis .
It shows that the cups in this species are large , well-defined bodies , each resembling somewhat the cup of the familiar " cup and ball .
" The cup proper , like the disks of R. batis , consists of three distinct layers , ( 1 ) the lining , which is almost identical with the electric plate of R. batis ; ( 2 ) a thick median striated layer ; and ( 3 ) an outer or cortical layer .
The lining or electric plate is inseparably connected with the terminal branches of the numerous nerve-fibres , which , entering by the wide mouth in front , all but fill the entire cavity of the cup , and ramify over its inner surface , the intervening spaces being occupied by gelatinous tissue .
This electric layer , which is richly nucleated , presents nearly as large a surface for the terminations of the electric nerves as the electric plate which covers the disk in R. batis and R. clavata .
The striated layer , as in R. batis , consists of numerous lamellae , which have an extremely contorted appearance , but it differs from the corresponding layer in R. batis , in retaining a few corpuscles .
The cortical layer very decidedly differs in appearance from the alveolar layer in R. batis .
It is of considerable thickness , contains large nuclei ,

