III .
" On Abstract Geometry .
" By Professor CAYLEY .
Received October 14 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) I submit to the Society the present exposition of some of the elementary principles of an Abstract m-dimensional geometry .
The science presents itself in two ways , -as a legitimate extension of the ordinary twoand threedimensional geometries ; and as a need in these geometries and in analysis generally .
In fact whenever we are concerned with quantities connected together in any manner , and which are , or are considered as variable or determinable , then the nature of the relation between the quantities is frequently rendered more intelligible by regarding them ( if only two or three in number ) as the coordinates of a point in a plane or in space ; for more than three quantities there is , from the greater complexity of the case , the greater need of such a representation ; but this can only be obtained by means of the notion of a space of the proper dimensionality ; and to use such representation , we require the geometry of such space .
An important instance in plane geometry has actually presented itself in the question of the determination of the curves which satisfy given conditions : the conditions imply relations between the coefficients in the equation of the curve ; and for the better understanding of these relations it was expedient to consider the coefficients as the co6rdinates of a point in a space of the proper dimensionality .
A fundamental notion in the general theory presents itself , slightly in [ Dec. 16 , 12 plane geometry , but already very prominently in solid geometry ; viz. we have here the difficulty as to the form of the equations of a curve in space , or ( to speak more accurately ) as to the expression by means of equations of the twofold relation between the coordinates of a point of such curve .
The notion in question is that of a k-fold relation , -as distinguished from any system of equations ( or onefold relations ) serving for the expression of it , and giving rise to the problem how to express such relation by means of a system of equations ( or onefold relations ) .
Applying to the case of solid geometry my conclusion in the general theory , it may be mentioned that I regard the twofold relation of a curve in space as being completely and precisely expressed by means of a system of equations ( P==0 , Q=0,. .
T0 ) , when no one of the func ions P , Q , ... T , as a linear function , with constant or variable integral coefficients , of the others of them , and when every surface whatever which passes through the curve has its equation expressible in the form U=AP+BQ ... +KT , with constant or variable integral coefficients , A , B ... ' K. It is hardly necessary to remark that all the functions and coefficients are taken to be rational functions of the coordinates , and that the word integral has reference to the coordinates .

