[ 59 VII .
On the Automatic Registration of Magnetometers , and other Meteorological Instruments , by Photography .
By CHARLES BROOKE , M.B. , F.R.C.S.E. Communicated by G. B. AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received June 16 , -Read June 18 , 1846 .
AN efficient method of continuously registering the variations of magnetometers having been generally admitted to be a desideratum in science at the Magnetic Conference held during the Meeting of the British Association at Cambridge , it became a matter of philosophical interest to supply the deficiency , and this , it is hoped , has by the following means been satisfactorily accomplished .
As the mechanical force which a suspended bar magnet is capable of exerting , during its variations of direction , is far too minute to actuate the most delicate mechanism without sensibly affecting its position , the desired object will probably be obtained by photography alone .
In order to render any method of photographic registration practically useful , it is essential that the three following indications should be fulfilled .
First , to obtain an easily managed artificial light of sufficient intensity to affect photographic paper , especially at those periods when it is of most consequence to obtain a continuous register , namely , when the position of the magnet is undergoing great and rapid variations .
Secondly , to prepare by a ready process photographic paper sufficiently sensitive to receive the feeble impressions of artificial light , and at the same time sufficiently durable to retain those impressions during a period of at least twelve hours , as a more frequent attention to the apparatus would probably interfere with the ordinary arrangements of an observatory .
Thirdly , to magnify the movements of the magnet by some optical arrangement , so that the variations may be indicated with sufficient minuteness and accuracy .
The first point may be attained by a camphine lamp , the light of which is much whiter and more intense than that of any other known lamp ; that which has been in use ( see fig. 3 , Plate V. ) is of a square form , each side being 2inches long and 1 high , nd and stands in a little wooden frame made exactly to fit it , that it may with certainty be replaced in exactly the same position , if removed for the purpose of being trimmed .
Many registers prove this to have been the case , there not having been any visible displacement of the line at the recorded period of removal of the lamp .
The wick is flat , and about 0'5 inch , wide , and inserted near one corner of the lamp , that the reflected pencil may not he obstracted in its passage ; and a feed ?
i 2 is inserted in the opposite corner , that the lamp may , if necessary , be supplied without removal ; it will , however , contain more than enough for twelve hours ' consumption .
The plane of the wick is inclined at an angle of 4 ?
or 5 ?
to the axis of the pencil of light , which passes through a slit 0-25 inch long , and 0'01 inch wide in the side of a copper chimney : the climney is supported on glass feet , to prevent the heating of the camphine by conduction , and for the same purpose the burner passes through a piece of wood .
As the burner may occasionally require a vertical adjustment , it passes through a small collar with a set-screw ; and as a minute quantity of resinous matter , resulting from the imperfect combustion of the camphine , will sometimes trickle down and interfere with the mobility of the collar , it is protected by a small concave rim attached to the burner .
To prevent the escape of light from beneath the chimney , and also to protect the flame from the influence of slight currents of air , at the same time without excluding a due supply , a ring of metal is placed outside the glass supports , which rises about one-fourth of an inch above the bottom of the chimney .
To render the combustion of the camphine more perfect , the draught in the chimney is confined by an obtuse conical diaphragm , having an aperture a little longer and wider than the burner , the exact size and position of which are represented in Plate V. figs. 4 , 5 , 6 .
The small obliquity of the wick is for the purpose of accumulating as much light as possible in a narrow pencil .
When the camphine is fresh , the lamp will burn for twelve hours without any deposition of carbon on the wick , or sensible diminution of the intensity of the light .
The application of gas has not been attempted , as the apparatus would probably be applied in situations not accessible to the ordinary supplies of gas .
For the purpose of actual observation , and especially wherever it may be proposed to obtain , not merely relative , but absolute determrinations from the registers , it will be found desirable to detach the fine slit from the lamp , and to fix it by a suitable support to an immnoveable stand on which the lamp is placed .
It is also desirable that one edge of the slit should be adjustible by a fine screw , that the width of the aperture may be varied at pleasure* .
The second( object has been attained by a paper prepared with the bromide of silver , which is well known to be affected by rays distributed over a larger portion of the spectrum than any of the other argentine salts , and is on that account preferable for the influence of artificial light .
The sensibility of paper prepared with this salt has been found to be greatly augmented by the addition of a small quantity of iodide of silver ( figs. 1 and 2 , Plate V. ) .
In fig. 1 , the development of the impression has been arrested when distinctly visible on the iodized portions , but invisible on the remainder of the paper : in fig. 2 , the difference in the clearness and darkness of the several portions of the line is very well marked .
A little isinglass is also added , partly because the presence of a small quantity of organic matter appears to assist the catalytic action that ensues on the development of the impression , and partly for the purpose of retaining the salts dissolved with it on the surface of the paper .
The mode of preparation is thus : to a filtered solution of four grains of isinglass in one fluid ounce of boiling distilled water , add ten grains of bromide of potassium , and two grains of iodide of potassium * : when cold , the solution is evenly laid with a camel 's hair brush on highly glazed paper in sufficient quantity to thoroughly wet the surface , but not to run off ; the paper is then quickly dried by the fire , to prevent the solution being absorbed by the paper .
Paper thus prepared may be kept for a considerable time in a dry place ; but it is recommended not to prepare at one time more than enough for a week 's consumption .
When about to be used , a piece of the above paper is evenly washed over by a camel 's hair brush with a solution of fifty grains of crystallized nitrate of silver in one fluidounce of distilled water , by the aid of red or yellow light only , and placed damp in the apparatus , as the sensibility of the paper is much diminished by permitting it to become dry .
When remove(l from the apparatus , the latent impression is developed by washing the paper with a saturated solution of gallic acid in distilled water , to which a very small quantity of strong acetic acid is added , when used ; the addition of the acetic acid is found to diminish the darkening of the paper .
The piece of paper used for each of these registers is half a sheet of folio post paper , torn lengthwise into two strips : to the quantity of gallic acid necessary to wet the surface of one of these pieces , which is about a teaspoonful , the addition of three drops of acetic acid is found to be sufficient .
As soon as the impression is sufficiently developed , all soluble matter is removed by washing the paper two or three times in water ; and lastly , the image is fixed by washing with a solution of twelve grains of hyposulphite of soda in one fluid-ounce of distilled water .
A little practice in the manipulation is necessary for the success of this or any other photographic process .
It may here be usefilly remarked , that in all photographic processes , the strictest attention to cleanliness , as regards all instruments employed , is indispensably necessary : separate cloths , brushes and glasses should be used , and each retained for its respective purpose , as the smallest undue admixture of the materials will entirely frustrate the object to be attained .
The paper prepared as above described , is placed round the outside of a cylindrical French shade , about 10 inches high and 1 42 in circumference ( figs. 1 and 5 , Plate VI .
) , the corners being held together by a little gum dissolved in acetic acid .
The shade , after having been blacked in the inside , is cemented into a cap 1 inch deep in the rim , and having a brass pin about 12 inch long and a quarter of an inch thick fixed perpendicularly in its centre .
A second shade , a little larger than the former , is then placed over it , leaving an annular space about one-eighth of an inch wide ; the two cylinders are rietained in a concentric position , by placing a sufficient number of turns of tape orl ribbon round the rim of the cap of the inner cylinder , to fill up the intervening space .
As the sensibility of the paper has been found to be materially dimlinished by allowing it to become dry , the tape or ribbon is saturated with water , previously to the outer cylinder being placed over it , and a piece of moist lint is placed between the round ends of the cylinders : the paper is thus kept perfectly damp until its removal , after having been in action twelve hours .
The pin in the cap of the inner cylinder rests on a pair of friction rollers , and the cap rests against a horizontal roller , Plate V. fig. 8 ; the rounded end of the outer cylinder also rests upon a pair of rollers , which are adjustible in the direction of the common axis of the cylinders , Plate VI .
fig. 1 ; the axis may thus be always rendered horizontal .
By these means , the cylinders revolve so easily that they have been carried round by the hourlanld of a common watch ; as however stoppages occasionally took place , from a deficiency of totive power , a stronger movement , such as now in use , is recommended .
A small collar with a set-screw fits on the pin of the cylinder , into which is inserted a bent wire that engages with a fork at the end of the hour-hand of the time-piece ( Plate VI .
fig. 3 ) , the hour-land being a little longer than the minute-hand .
The cylinder is ths carried round its axis once in twelve hours , and at the commencement of the observation the carrier is so adjusted that the point of light may fall at the top of the paper .
From the preceding description , it will be readily understood that by a combination of the vertical movement of the paper with the horizontal movement of the luminous point , the magnetic curve is traced out .
The time-scale , which is measured lengthwise in the photographs , is evidently -1-2th of the circumference of the inner cylinder to one hour , and the dimensions above mentioned , which allow 01 inch very nearly to five minutes , have been considered to define the period of any * The size of the time-pieces in use is that of an ordinary ship chronometer , and in the construction of these a great improvement has recently suggested itself .
The motion of the hour-hand is usually reduced from that of the arbor carrying the minute-hand by two wheels and pinions , the play of which , although necessary for their free action , allows a degree of mobility in the hour-hand rarely less than equivalent to five minutes in time , and consequently , without due caution , an error to this amount may be introduced in the register ; moreover , the hour-hand is supported by too short an axis to enable it to overcome a considerable resistance applied to its extremity , without acting as a drag upon the whole train .
To obviate these inconveniences , the hourhand is placed on the arbor of the centre or second wheel , which is driven directly by the barrel , and drives the rest of the train .
With this and other necessary modifications of the train , the variation of rate , whether ehe hour-lband moves freely , or is engaged in carrying the cylinder , will be scarcely sensible .
In carrying out these views , the.author is bound to acknowledge his obligation to the skill and intelligence of Mr. EIFFE .
AIay 1847 .
given variation with sufficient accuracy .
As it is extremely improbable that two or more cylinders should be obtained of precisely similar circumference , it is desirable that a correct time-scale should be constructed for each cylinder einployed , which may be readily effected in the following manner .
Let a piece of paper , made as damp as the photographic paper usually is when placed on the cylinder , be cut so as to exactly meet round it ; when dry , let this be divided into twelve equal parts , each of which will represent Ih ; these again into twelve parts , each of which will correspond to 5m .
By this arrangement an allowance is made for the shrinking of the paper* .
The angular deviation is measured from a line on the paper drawn in the direction of its motion , such , for example , as would be described by the point of a fixed pencil resting constantly against it .
; and at the scale of 005 inch to one minute ( which may perhaps be taken as the best working scale with the existing apparatus ) , the edge of the line when the various adjustments have been carefully attended to , is sufficiently well defined ( as may be observed by a reference to many of the photographs ) to determine its place to half or less than half -a division of a scale of --th of an inch , that is , the position of the magnet may be read to within ten seconds .
The plan adopted for determining the position of the base-line on the photographs , has been that of drawing pencil [ narks across the line at which one end of the paper overlaps the other , previously to its removal from the cylinder .
When the register is dried , a line drawn through the two corresponding marks at the two ends has been taken to be the base-line .
As however it can never be expected to obtain glass cylinders that have either perfectly cylindrical surfaces or perfect surfaces of revolution , the line of intersection of a plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder with the paper , would not probably be a perfectly straight line when the paper is opened out ; and if the paper should from any cause contract unequally in drying , this line of intersection , which is the true base-line , would be liable to some further distortion .
A coIparisonl of many photographs with the Greenwich observations has led to the belief , that a small portion of error has occasionally arisen from these causes ; there is , however , no reason for supposing that it has ever exceeded one minute .
The means of obviating these sources of error by a photographic baseline are under consideration , but have not yet been perfected t. The following arrangements have been adopted to fulfil the third indication , that of magnifying sufficiently the movements of the magnet .
A concave mirror of ten inches focus , and three inches aperture , is attached to a brass stem intervening between the frame which supports the magnet and the suspension chord .
In order to reduce as much as possible the influence of torsion on the position of the magnet , the suspension skein consists of six equal bundles of untwisted silk fibres about six feet long , being portions of the same skein of flos silk ; these , after being boiled in a solution of bichloride of mercury to render them less hygrometric , were stretched by six equal weights , the sum of which was very nearly that which the whole would subsequently have to support , and after having been left for three or four days to find their position of rest , were firtnly bound together : by these means the probable equality of tension and freedom from torsion in the entire chord will , it is believed , be considerably augmented .
The mirror may be moved round with the stem through any angle of azimuth , that the reflected pencil of light may proceed in a convenient direction ; and the lanmp must be placed at such a distance from the mirror that the conjugate focus may be at any required distance : and on this distance depends the amplitude of the scale , on which the variations of the magnet are represented .
If the image of the slit is formed at a distance of 7 feet 2 inches from the line of suspension , each minute of angular motion of the magnet will be represented by a change of position of the line on the paper , amounting to -th of an incl ; if formed at 9 feet 61 inches , I will be equivalent to -th of an inch ; if at 11 feet 11 inches , to -a-th of an inch ; and if at 14 feet 4 inches , -1th of an inch will represent I ' .
The support of the lamp by which its adjustments are effected will be readily understood by an inspection of Plate I. fig. 1 * .
The pencil of light forming the image of the slit is intercepted by a cylindrical lens , the axis of which is horizontal , and perpendicular to the vertical plane passing through the image and the centre of the mirror ; the lens being placed at its focal distance from the image .
By this arrangement , that portion of the pencil which passes through the lens is condensed vertically into a narrow space , without at all interfering with its horizontal movement .
The most suitable focal length of the cylindrical lens depends upon the length of range : at the shortest distance abovementioned , a focal length of 1-5 inch will be found to answer very well ; at the next , two inches ; and at the longest , three inches .
As the amount of spherical aberration increases considerably as the eccentricity of the reflected pencil is increased , it is desirable that this eccentricity should be the least possible ; with this view , the lamp must be so adjusted in the horizontal separate lamp placed about 9 or 10 inches from the cylinder ; a small pencil , the axis of which is perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder , is received by a lens placed at less than its focal distance from the paper , a small portion of the pencil thus condensed is transmitted through a narrow vertical fixed slit , and marks the paper ( see fig. 8 , Plate IX .
) .
In the combined register of the balanced magnetometer and the barometer , the base-line is described by the barometer lamp , as mentioned in the Supplement.-May 1847 .
plane , that the reflected pencil may pass close by the side of the chimney .
It is obvious that the angle contained between the incident and reflected pencils may be diminished to any required extent by increasing the focal length of the mirror , as the lamnp will then be placed at a greater distance from it , and by the same means the portion of light incident on the mirror is diminished , but the illumination of the image remains constant , its area alone being altered by varying the focal length of the mirror .
Mirrors of 5 , 6 , 8 } , 10 , 12 , and 15 inches focal length have been tried ; and in conjunction with the cylindrical lenses which have been used , the mirrors of 8| and 10 inches focal length and 3 inches aperture , appear to have produced the best effects .
It may be here remarked , that the lenses used have been either cylinders , or portions of cylinders cemented together , filled with water ; but with solid glass lenses , and more particularly with achlromrnatic combinations , could such be obtained , it is probable that a better effect would be produced with mirrors of from 12 to 16 inches focus , and 3or 4 inches aperture* .
In the adjustment of the lamp , it is necessary that the plane of incidence and reflexion should be perpendicular to a vertical plane passing through the slit and the centre of the mirror .
This adjustment may be most conveniently effected by placing a piece of wire horizontally across the slit and the reflected pencil , and having fixed the lamp at such an azimuth that the brightest portion of the pencil may be incident on the centre of the mirror , by moving the lamp vertically until the wire appears to coincide with its image at the centre of the mirror .
By this adjustment , the image of the slit , being a portion of a caustic surface , is condensed in the direction of a tangent plane , and the confusion of the rays forming the luminous point is a minimum : the effect may be observed by comparing the line , fig. 3 , Plate VII .
, in which this adjustment was intentionally disregarded , with fig 4 , in which it was attended to , all other circumstances remaining precisely the same .
It may be here observed , that the line being formed by a portion of a caustic surface condensed , the distinctness of its edge is independent of the distance at which the image is formed , and consequently of the amplitude of the scale .
This may be observed by a comparison of figs. 1 to 20 , Plate VII .
, in which the scale is 0w05 inch to 1 ' , with fig. 5 , in which it is 01 inch to 1 ' : the only difference is in the darkness of the line , depending on the intensity of the point of light by which it is described .
In order to prevent the paper being darkened by the influence of stray light , a rectangular cover is placed over the cylinders , with a slit in the side , in the same horizontal plane as the axis of the cylinders , the slit being just wide enough to allow the point of light to pass through it : the paper is thus protected from the rays dispersed by the water lens .
The time-piece , cylinders and lens , are placed on a tripod stand with the usual vertical adjustment ( see fig. 1 , Plate VI .
) , by which the whole apparatus may be so placed that the lens may receive the brightest part of the.image .
The surface of the stand , and all parts of the apparatus from which light could be ireflected on to the paper are blackened over , and the whole is covered by a second case ; in the side of which , towards the reflected pencil , is an apelture guarded by a tube about one foot long , and sufficiently large to admit the reflected pencil in any position that it may assume .
The box in which the magnet is enclosed , to protect it from being disturbed by currents of air , and all other objects visible through the tube by an eye placed at the paper , except the mirror , are also i'endered black ; and so complete is this protection , that not the slightest difference can be perceived in the paper , whether bright daylight is freely admitted through three large windows , or wholly excluded .
This apparatus has hitherto been applied to register the variations of the declination magnet only , but it may be considered equally applicable , with appropriate modifications , to record the variations of the horizontal and vertical elements of magnetic force .
The experiments have been conducted under the unfavourable influence of that constant tremor which exists in a London thoroughfare : this has been as far as possible counteracted by attaching to the magnet , about half-way between the point of suspension and its extrenmity , a piece of copper wire , the end of which dips into a glass vessel of oil ; this does not appear to have interfered with the movements of the magnet* .
The effect of the damper , in arresting the influence of local causes on the vibrations of the magnet , may be best appreciated by a reference to fig. 19 , Plate VII .
, a register taken during a maximum local disturbance , namely , a quadrille party in the next house , from the party-wall of which the magnet has been suspended .
The unsteady movement of the magnet during the period of the dance ( the termination of which is very well-marked ) is strikingly contrasted with those periodically augmented and dimninished vibrations of the magnet about its mean place , the existence of which has frequently been noticed , and which are very conspicuous in fig. 20 , a portion of a register purposely taken during the most quiescent period of the week .
Notwithstanding the local sources of error above alluded to , it is very satisfactory to observe the close agreement between the photographs and several hundreds of the observations made at the Royal Observatory , which have been very carefully laid down upon them .
These aut'omatic registers include the two last term-days , and several per eriods of unusal disturbance , during which extraordinary observations have been made at Greenwich at intervals of one , two , or three minutes , and throughout the whole series the number of discrepancies is very small .
An almost continuous registration has been maintained during the present year ; and it is due to the praiseworthy vigilance of the observers engaged at the Royal Observatory to state , that very few extraordinary disturbances have escaped their notice .
Of those which have been compared with the Greenwich observations , fig. 20 , Plate VII .
, the register of April 6th , 1846 , and fig. 1 , Plate VIII .
, that of April 16th , exhibit the greatest disturbance ; in both instances it may be remarked that the greatest variation has occurred between 7h and 11l .
It may here be conveniently reiarked , that in accordance with the practice of the Royal Observatory , the time adopted is Gottingen mean astronomical time , which is 39m 46s in advance of Greenwich mean time .
Fig. 17 , Plate VII .
, the register of April 15th , exhibits a brief disturbance , occurring between 811 and 9h , in which the photograph differs more essentially from the Greenwich observations sharp cusp in the latter , corresponding at two points to a mere bend in the former , would lead to the inference , that the disturbing cause must have been so near to Greenwich as to have exerted a materially greater influence on the magnet there under observation .
A singular fact is established by some of these photographs , namnely , that after a certain space of time the actinic influence spontaneously decays ; for in some in some instances the paper has been suffered to remain on the cylinder more than twelve hours ; and consequently a second impression is made upon the paper within a very small distance of that which had been made twelve hours previously , and while the latter impression is distinctly developed , the former is very faint : fig. 6 , Plate VII .
is a good illustration of this fact .
The succeeding portions however of the first impression become more and more distinct , thus showing that the decay is gradual .
It appears to commtence after a period of from ten to fourteen or fifteen hours ; but the conditions on which this variation of timte depends have not been ascertained * .
The Inost violent shock that has been recorded , fig. 10 , Plate VII .
, occurred between 511 and 6h on the 1st of April .
On this occasion , the magnet , after suffering two small shocks , was at 5h 201T suddenly displaced as by a blow , and thrown into a wide oscillation , from which it did not return to a state of rest for 25m ; it then sustained a considerable shock in the opposite direction , from which it again returned to a state of rest , in nearly its original position , about 6h .
It is confidently anticipated that a continuance of these observations during the approaching period of the year , when disturbances are usually most fiequent and considerable , may lead to some interesting results .
distinctness .
By this means half the trouble of changing the papers and developing the impressions is saved , and the relative positions at intervals of 12 hours may be determined with a much greater degree of certainty , the only source of error being in reading the position of the edge of the lines on a scale.-May 1847 .
29 Keppel Street , June 16 , 1846 .

