A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
1 .
H. Chick , " The Factors Concerned in the Solution and Precipitation of Euglobulin , " 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 7 , ; p. 318 ( 1913 ) .
2 .
H. Chick and C. J. Martin , " On the Heat Coagulation of Proteins ( IV ) , " ' Journ. of Pkys .
, ' vol. 45 , p. 261 ( 1912 ) .
3 .
E. J. Cohn , " Studies in the Physiology of Spermatozoa , " ' Biol. Bulletin , ' vol. 34r p. 167 ( 1918 ) .
4 .
R. Ellis , " Die Eigenschaften der Olemulsion , " ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 78 , p. 321 1911 ; also vol. 80 , p. 597 ( 1912 ) .
5 .
P. Girard , " Relation entre l'etat 61ectrique de la paroi de la cellule et sa perm^abilite ^ un ion donn6 , " ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 169 , p. 94 ( 1914 ) .
6 .
P. Girard and R. Audubert , " Les charges 61ectriques des microbes et leur tension superficielle , " 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 167 , p. 351 ( 1918 ) .
7 .
J. Gray , " The Electrical Conductivity of Echinoderm Eggs , etc. , " 'Phil .
Trans. Roy .
Soc. , ' B , vol. 207 , p. 481 ( 1916 ) .
* 8 .
J. Gray , " Note on the Relation of Spermatozoa to Electrolytes , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 61 , p. 119 ( 1915 ) .
9 .
G. R. Mines , " The Action of Beryllium , Lanthanum , etc. , on the Frog 's Heart , " ' Journ. of Phys. , ' vol. 40 , p. 327 ( 1910 ) .
10 .
G. R. Mines , " Der Einfluss gewisser Ionen auf die elektrische Ladung von Oberflachen , " ' Roll .
Chem. Beihefte , ' vol. 3 , p. 191 ( 1912 ) .
11 .
J. Perrin , " Mecanisme de Electrisation de contact et solution colloidales , " 'Journ .
Chimie Physique , ' vol. 2 , p. 601 ( 1904 ) .
A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
By C. F. U. Meek .
( Communicated by Prof. S. J. Hickson , F.R.S.\#151 ; Received October 28 , 1919 .
) ( Plates 2 and 3 .
) Introduction .
In 1912 I published a paper giving measurements of the chromosomes composing the complexes of species belonging to both closely allied and widely separated divisions of the animal kingdom .
The material studied consisted chiefly of the spermatogenetic cell generations : and these investigations , so far as I am aware , constituted the first serious attempt to measure chromosomes and to compare chromosome dimensions throughout the animal kingdom .
The results obtained proved certain generalisations , and suggested others .
The first generalisation with which I intend to deal here was that the degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
lengths of the chromosomes composing its complex .
This generalisation was proved by the data collected : for , passing through the various phyla , from simple to highly differentiated animals , no tendency could be found for the chromosomes of the complex to become either longer or shorter ; and , outside small divisions of the animal kingdom , our systematic classification gave no clue to the lengths in the complex of any particular animal .
The second generalisation was that the degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the number of the chromosomes composing its complex .
This was likewise proved by the data collected : for no tendency could be found for highly differentiated animals to possess either more or fewer chromosomes than are possessed by low and simple animals ; and , outside small divisions , our systematic classification again constituted no index .
The third generalisation was that correlation exists between the degree of somatic complexity of an animal and the total volume of the chromosomes composing its complex .
My data showed a tendency for the total volume of chromatin on the spindles to increase as we passed from simple to complex animals , although strict uniformity in this was not observed .
This generalisation was therefore suggested by the results obtained .
The fourth and last generalisation was that correlation exists between the degree of somatic complexity of an .
animal and the diameter of the chromosomes composing its complex .
Whereas the lengths of the chromosomes had been found .to be arbitrary , the diameters seemed to fall into three definite groups .
The diameters in Protozoa were observed to be equal to half those in low Metazoa , while the diameters in low Metazoa were observed to be equal to half those in high Metazoa .
This generalisation was therefore suggested by the results obtained , and , since my data showed no exceptions , strict correlation was proposed .
In consideration of the evidence before me , I constructed a working hypothesis .
I suggested that the chromatin granules of the simplest Protozoa are converted into rods by linear growth , accompanying evolutionary development and increased complexity of the animal ; the rate of growth is not the same in all chromosomes , and rods of various lengths are therefore evolved .
A stage in phylogeny is reached later , when chromosomes have attained a maximum length , the limit depending upon physical conditions , possibly connected with spindle mechanism ; when this occurs , chromatin units conjugate in fours , and the resulting chromosomes have a diameter equal to twice that previously seen .
These then segment into spherical chromosomes of the new diameter , and such chromosomes are prepared to enter a new course of linear growth , accompanying further A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
159 evolutionary development .
When the length limit has again been reached , conjugation of units once more takes place , followed by segmentation into spherical chromosomes of a doubled diameter ; and further evolutionary development of the animal is again accompanied by conversion of these spherical chromosomes into rods of various lengths by linear growth .
This hypothesis seemed to accord with the phenomena observed .
But the number of animals that I had studied was small , and many phyla had been represented in my investigations by only one species ; moreover , the difficulties inherent in the measurement of chromosomes , combined with my inability to eliminate the personal factor from my drawings , increased the possibility of error .
I drew attention to this at the time , in order that premature and undue importance might not be attached to the hypothesis , but added the hope that it would be valuable , whether eventually proved or disproved , in that it suggested a new line of thought .
The subject was later studied by Farmer and Digby , who published early in 1914 the results of a series of measurements of chromosomes in both animals and plants .
These results partly corroborated and partly disagreed with my earlier observations .
On the one hand , they showed a tendency for the chromosome diameter to increase as we passed from simple to complex animals , and further showed that this tendency extended to the plant kingdom , which I had not studied .
The similarity shown between the complexes of animals and plants was in many ways remarkable .
On the other hand , they proved that the number of different chromosome diameters is greater than I had suspected ; that chromosomes composing an individual complex can be of different diameters ; and that the chromosame diameters in Homarus gammarus are much smaller than those in the closely allied Palcemon serratus .
This evidence directly affected my fourth generalisation , previously mentioned ; for , while suggesting correlation between chromosome diameter and the degree of somatic complexity , it proved that intimate and uniformly observable correlation could no longer be proposed .
In the circumstances , this generalisation became modified accordingly .
In order to obtain further data concerning the third generalisation , and the fourth in its amended form , I turned in the spring of 1914 from spindle measurements to the study of chromosome dimensions in the spermatogenetic mitoses of animals that I had not previously dealt with .
I found new and important evidence , particularly in Sme Vanessa urticce , and Gallus domesticus .
This evidence was supplemented shortly afterwards in a study of these mitoses in Felis , of which preparations were lent to me by Dr. H. de Winiwarter ; and I take this opportunity of thanking him again N 2 Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
or enabling me thus to study them , and for permitting me to publish photomicrographs that I made at the time .
This work was laid aside in September , 1914 , and I have been unable to resume it until this year ( 1919 ) .
I now intend to give these and other results .
The evidence produced will be supported by photo-micrographs in which the differences in chromatin volume and chromosome diameter are distinct enough to be recognised without recourse to actual measurements .
These photo-micrographs have been taken from several hundreds that I have made , representing many different animals , and will be found completely to disprove the third and modified fourth generalisations .
Material and Methods .
All material , except that of Felis , was prepared either by me or by my assistant , Mr. T. Kussell Goddard .
The testes were preserved in Flemming 's strong chromo-aceto-osmic acid fluid , in which they remained for 24 hours .
They were then thoroughly washed in running water , and passed through successive strengths of alcohol : and , after being cleared in xylol , were embedded in paraffin .
Sections were cut 8/ 4 thick with a Cambridge rocking microtome , and were stained on the slide .
The slides were placed for four to six hours in an aqueous solution of ferric alum , and were then stained for 12 to 14 hours in Heidenhain 's iron haematoxylin .
The preparations were studied with a Zeiss apochromatic oil-immersion objective of 2 mm. focus and N.A. 1'30 , and the various compensating oculars .
The light was obtained from an inverted incandescent gas lamp , and was passed through a Watson holoscopic oil-immersion substage condenser .
All photo-micrographs were made at the same magnification with a Zeiss camera , the objective mentioned above , and compensating ocular No. 4 .
Chromatin Volume and Chromosome Diameter .
Figs. 1 to 4 of the Plate represent the grasshopper , Stenobothrus viridulus .
Fig. 1 shows a polar view of the spermatogonial metaphase .
Fig. 2 shows a polar view of the primary spermatocyte metaphase ; while fig. 3 shows a lateral view of this metaphase , and the odd or heterotropic chromosome is seen passing undivided to one pole .
Fig. 4 shows a polar view of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase .
A reference to my first paper and to papers of other cytologists will prove that these photomicrographs are typical both of this species and of other closely allied animals .
Figs. 5 to 11 represent the moth , Smerinthus Fig. 5 shows a polar view of the spermatogonial metaphase .
Fig. 6 shows lateral views of this metaphase ; and a lateral view of the early anaphase is shown in fig. 7 .
A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
161 Figs. 8 and 9 show polar views of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
Fig. 10 shows a lateral view of this metaphase .
Fig. 11 shows a polar view of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase .
These photo-micrographs closely resemble the drawings of Federley of this and allied species , and may therefore be accepted as typical of these moths .
Figs. 12 to 17 represent the butterfly , Vanessa Fig. 12 shows a polar view of the spermatogonial metaphase ; lateral views of this metaphase are shown in figs. 13 and 14 .
Fig. 15 shows a lateral view of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
Figs. 16 and 17 show respectively a polar and a lateral view of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase .
The similarity of these photo-micrographs and those of proves that the type depicted is not exceptional among Lepidoptera .
A comparison of the photo-micrographs of withv those of Smerinthus populi and Vanessa urticce proves that the total volume of chromatin on the spindle is much greater in Stenobothrus than in either Smerinthus or Yanessa ; this difference is equally evident in the spermatogonial , and primary and secondary spermatocyte mitoses .
And the same result is obtained from comparison of the chromosome diameters ; for , in each cell generation , the diameters in Stenobothrus are obviously much greater than those in Smerinthus and Yanessa .
This evidence is similar to that obtained by Farmer and Digby in Homarus and serratus ; but , whereas they observed difference in two animals individually considered , the difference now observed is in animals that have been shown to be typical of definite groups .
Figs. 18 to 23 represent the snail Helix Fig. 18 shows a polar view of the spermatogonial metaphase .
Figs. 19 and 20 show respectively a polar and a lateral view of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
Fig. 21 shows a polar view of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase ; while lateral views of this metaphase are shown in figs. 22 and 23 .
The preparations of Helix studied in my first paper were lent to me , and I stated at the time that I had found few dividing cells , and consequently had been unable to measure all chromosomes of the complex .
The photo-micrographs now given are taken from many preparations that I have since made and studied , and I am now able to correct and supplement my earlier observations .
I find that the two camera lucida drawings that I gave and identified as spermatogonial mitoses must have been made from spermatocyte cells .
Fig. 18 in the Plate of the present paper shows a spermatogonial complex ; and the chromosome diameters are seen to be smaller than those observed in the secondary spermatocyte mitosis , represented by figs. 21 , 22 , and 23 .
Such difference is not confined to Helix , for I have found it in other animals , Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
including Felis , in which it has been noted by Dr. de Winiwarter .
Lastly , the diameters of all chromosomes composing the secondary spermatocyte complex are not the same .
Within limits , differences in size of chromosomes seen in a photo-micrograph of a lateral view do not necessarily prove that differences actually exist .
All chromosomes of a complex are not in perfect focus at the same moment ; and chromosomes that are not in perfect focus appear in the photo-micrograph to be smaller than they really are .
In fig. 23 , however , certain daughter chromosomes that are equally in focus show small differences in size and diameter ; and these differences must , therefore , be accepted .
This evidence of different diameters within a complex corroborates the results of Farmer and Digby .
Fig. 24 shows a polar view of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase in the newt , Triton cristatus .
Figs. 25 to 29 represent the cat , Felis , and are photo-micrographs that I made from Dr. de Winiwarter 's preparations .
Fig. 25 shows a polar view of the spermatogonial metaphase , while fig. 26 shows a lateral view of the early anaphase of this mitosis .
Fig. 27 shows a polar view of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
Lateral views of this metaphase are shown in figs. 28 and 29 , and , in the former , a single chromosome is seen passing apparently undivided to one pole .
These photo-micrographs accord with Dr. de Winiwarter 's drawings in the plate of his paper .
This paper was completed in March , 1914 , but its publication has been delayed until this year .
A comparison of these photo-micrographs with those already given shows that the total volume of chromatin on the spindles of Felis is much smaller than that seen in either Stenobothrus or Triton , and the same result is obtained from comparison of the chromosome diameters .
But Felis is a mammal and , somatically , is the most highly differentiated animal represented in this Plate .
The significance of this evidence has been recognised by Dr. de Winiwarter , who has drawn attention to it in his paper .
Figs. 30 to 36 represent the bird , Gallus domesticus .
Fig. 30 shows a polar view of the primary spermatocyte metaphase .
Figs. 31 and 32 show lateral views of this metaphase .
Figs. 33 and 34 show polar views of the secondary spermatocyte metaphase ; and lateral views are shown in figs. 35 and 36 .
These photo-micrographs clearly prove that the total volume of chromatin on the spindles is much smaller than that observed in the corresponding mitoses of Stenobothrus and Triton .
Unfortunately , the chromosomes are crowded in the equatorial plane of the spindles , and cannot be measured individually ; but the photo-micrographs of lateral views prove that the chromosome diameter cannot be as great as that seen in Stenobothrus and Triton .
A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
163 The evidence that we have now considered is remarkable .
We have observed that the total volume of the chromatin on the spindles may be much smaller in a mammal and a bird than in a grasshopper ; while a very great difference was seen between a grasshopper , on the one hand , and a moth and a butterfly on the other\#151 ; animals that not only belong to , but have been shown to be typical of closely allied divisions of the animal kingdom .
And the same results have been obtained in the case of the chromosome diameter .
The animals dealt with belong to various divisions of the Arthropoda , Mollusca , and Vertebrata ; but a comparison of the photo-micrographs given in the Plate completely fails to show corre-pondence between our systematic classification and a classification based upon either chromatin volume or chromosome diameter .
In the circumstances , we must realise that the tendencies observed in our earlier data for the chromatin volume and chromosome diameter to increase as we passed from simple to complex animals must have been fortuitous .
The evidence now before us proves conclusively that the suggestions embodied in my third generalisation and in my fourth in its amended form must be abandoned .
Conclusion .
The evidence produced in my first paper proved two negative generalisations , viz. , that the degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with either the lengths or the number of the chromosomes composing its complex .
Our new evidence has proved two more negative generalisations , viz. , that the degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with either the total volume or the diameters of the chromosomes composing its complex .
Cytometrical investigations have failed so far to give a positive generalisation concerning these phenomena .
But the work done has been justified ; for many facts have been discovered , and the establishment of these four negative generalisations must reduce the number of possible explanations .
If now we consider the hypothesis that I put forward , we find that the new evidence necessitates the elimination from it of all reference to connection between increase of somatic differentiation , resulting from evolutionary development , and increase of chromatin volume and chromosome diameter .
The hypothesis thus becomes nothing more than a suggested explanation of the process by which increase in chromosome length and diameter is effected .
But the discovery of many different chromosome diameters removes the grounds for suggesting that increase in diameter is discontinuous and is effected by conjugation of units , while increase in length is continuous and is effected by growth .
These increases may occur Mr. C. F. U. Meek .
in a way similar to that suggested ; on the other hand , the process may be entirely different .
That the complex of a species is a constant seems more'and more evident ; and , within small groups of the animal kingdom , we can foretell the approximate composition of the complex in a particular species .
This has led to the supposition that , throughout the animal kingdom , a classification based upon chromosomes will be found to correspond with the classification based upon somatic characters .
That this is not so has been clearly demonstrated by comparison of the photo-micrographs given in this paper .
Our studies of chromosomes have failed completely to discover the factors determining the composition of the complex .
The phenomena of the cell must be intimately connected .
The evolution of the spindle cannot be dissociated from that of the chromosomes ; and elucidation of the one problem will lead probably to elucidation of the other .
How and when elucidation will be found cannot be prophesied .
Both problems are important ; and both are difficult .
Summary .
1 .
The degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the lengths of the chromosomes composing its complex .
2 .
The degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the diameters of the chromosomes composing its complex .
3 .
The degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the total volume of the chromosomes composing its complex .
4 .
The degree of somatic complexity of an animal cannot be correlated with the number of the chromosomes composing its complex .
5 .
There are many different chromosome diameters .
6 .
The chromosomes composing the spermatogonial complex of an animal are not necessarily identical in diameter with those composing its secondary spermatocyte complex .
7 .
All chromosomes composing an individual complex are not necessarily of the same diameter .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
Farmer , J. B. , and Dig by , L. , " On Dimensions of Chromosomes considered in Relation to Phylogeny , " \#163 ; Phil. Trans. Roy .
Soc. , ' Ser. B , vol. 205 ( 1914 ) .
Federley , H. , " Chromosomenstudien an Mischlingen , " ' Finska Vetenskaps-Societetens Forhandlingar , ' Bd .
57 ( 1914-15 ) .
Meek , C. F. U. , " A Metrical Analysis of Chromosome Complexes , " ' Phil. Trans. Roy .
Soc. , ' Ser. B , vol. 203 ( 1912 ) .
Winiwarter , H. de , " Les Mitoses de l'6pith61ium seminal du Chat , " ' Arch , de Biol. , ' t. 30 ( 1919 ) .
( D6pos6 le 17 Mars , 1914 .
) Meek .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. 91 , PI .
2 .
Meek .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. 91 , PI .
3 .
A Further Study of Chromosome Dimensions .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Polar view of spermatogonial metaphase in viridulus .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Polar view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Lateral view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto , showing the odd or heterotropic chromosome passing undivided to one pole .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Polar view of spermatogonial metaphase in Fig. 6.\#151 ; Lateral views of spermatogonial metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Lateral view of spermatogonial anaphase in ditto .
Figs. 8 and 9.\#151 ; Polar views of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Lateral view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Polar view of spermatogonial metaphase in Vanessa Figs. 13 and 14.\#151 ; Lateral views of spermatogonial metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Lateral view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 17.\#151 ; Lateral view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; Polar view of spermatogonial metaphase in Helix Plate 3 .
Fig. 19.\#151 ; Polar view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; Lateral view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 21.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Figs. 22 and 23.\#151 ; Lateral views of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Fig. 24.\#151 ; Polar view of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in Triton cristatus .
Fig. 25.\#151 ; Polar view of spermatogonial metaphase in Felis .
Fig. 26.\#151 ; Lateral view of spermatogonial anaphase in ditto .
Fig. 27.\#151 ; Polar view of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Figs. 28 and 29.\#151 ; Lateral views of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto ; in fig. 28 .
a chromosome is seen passing apparently undivided to one pole .
Fig. 30.\#151 ; Polar view of primary spermatocyte metaphase Figs. 31 and 32.\#151 ; Lateral views of primary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Figs. 33 and 34.\#151 ; Polar views of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .
Figs. 35 and 36.\#151 ; Lateral views of secondary spermatocyte metaphase in ditto .

