447 Experimental Studies in Indian .* By H. Martin Leake , M.A. , Economic Botanist to the Government of the United Provinces of Agra and Ondh , India .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received January 9 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1911 .
) In the course of these experiments , most of the types of cotton cultivated in India have been grown , but the experiments are confined , with few exceptions , to those types common to Northern India .
These types fall into two groups , which are characterised by the form of the secondary branches .
These may be either monopodial or sympodial , t and in pure types they are either monopodial , with a few apical branches sympodial , or sympodial , with a few basal branches monopodial .
Types in which the secondary branches are all monopodial or all sympodial do not appear to occur , though individuals may be so characterised .
The types which have given the material for these experiments have been grown in pure culture for a series of years , and may be grouped as follows:\#151 ; J Monopodial S ( a ) Foliage green\#151 ; Plant glabrous or nearly so , branches ascending , bracteoles triangular with margin entire or dentate , leaf factor \lt ; 2 .
Type 1 , obtusi-folium , Roxb .
Plant pubescent , branches spreading , bracteoles deeply auriculate or reniform with margin deeply serrate , leaf factor \lt ; 2 .
Type 2 , G. herbaceum , Linn. ( b ) Foliage red\#151 ; Plant differing from Type 1 in colour of foliage and petals , and in leaf factor , which is \gt ; 3 .
Type 3 , G. arboreum , Linn. * * * S * Conducted at Cawnpore by the Botanical Research Section of the U. P. Department of Agriculture .
+ Balls , ' Journ. Ag .
Soc. , ' vol. 2 , p. 336 ; Cook , U.S. Dept , of Ag .
, Bureau of Plant Industry , Bull .
88 .
X Cf .
the classifications of Todaro , ' Rel .
sul .
Cult , dei Cotoni , ' 1877 ; Watt , ' The Wild and Cultivated Cotton Plants of the World Gammie , The Indian Cottons .
' In all these the habit of the plant is not considered .
S Only sufficient description is here given to serve the purposes of the present note .
2 l 2 Mr. H. M. Leake .
[ Jan. 9 , Sympodial Types .
( a ) Foliage green\#151 ; ( 1 ) Leaf factor \lt ; 2\#151 ; i. Leaf commonly with three lobes , bracteoles small , closely enveloping bud and fruit ; petals yellow .
Type 4 , G. indicura , Lamk .
ii .
Leaf lobes 5\#151 ; 7 , petals yellow .
Type 5.* iii .
Leaf lobes 5\#151 ; 7 , petals white .
Types 6 and 7 .
( 2 ) Leaf factor \gt ; 3\#151 ; i. Leaf lobes 5\#151 ; 7 , petals yellow .
Type 8 .
ii .
Leaf lobes 5\#151 ; 7 , petals white .
Type 9 .
iii .
Bracteoles large , continuing to grow during development of boll , which is large , many seeded ; petals pale yellow .
Type 10 , G. cernuum , Tod .
( b ) Foliage red\#151 ; Leaf factor \gt ; 3 , petal red on white .
Type 11 , G. Hassk .
, var .
minor of Gammie .
The experiments include observations on the following characters : ( 1 ) colour of corolla ; ( 2 ) red colouring matter of sap ; ( 3 ) leaf factor ; ( 4 ) type of branching and length of vegetative period ; ( 5 ) glands of the leaf .
1 .
Colour of the Corolla\#151 ; This may be either yellow or white .
The heterozygous form has a full yellow petal\#151 ; which colour is , therefore , completely dominant\#151 ; and gives in subsequent generations pure yellows ( DD ) , impure yellows ( DR ) , and whites ( RR ) , the latter giving whites only .
The number of individuals here handled are too few to give reliable numerical results .
2 .
Red Colouring Matter of the SapThe presence of a red colouring matter in the sap , such as occurs in Type 3 and Type 11 , is dominant to its absence .
The dominance is , however , incomplete , and the heterozygous and pure forms are readily distinguished from each other by the depth of colour .
From a cross between Type 3 ( red flowered ) and Type 9 ( white flowered ) it has been found possible to isolate pure red on white flowered ( Type 11 ) and pure yellow flowered ( cf. Type 8 ) forms .
Type 3 must therefore be considered to bear the yellow colour , masked by the red sap colour , which is superimposed .
The Mendelian expectation in the F2 generation ( on the assumption that Type 3 possesses the two dominant characters , yellow petal * Types 5\#151 ; 9 are included in the G neglectum and G. roseum of Todaro .
1911 .
] Experimental Studies in Indian Cottons .
449 and red sap colour , which are absent in Type 9 ) is found to hold within a fair degree of approximation .
The correctness of the supposition here made is shown by the behaviour of a cross between Type 3 and Type 4 .
In this case the yellow character is present in both types , and a simple pair of allelomorphic characters is under consideration .
3 .
Leaf Factor.\#151 ; The degree of incision of the leaf lobe has formed the basis of most classifications of the Indian cottons .
This character has been found capable of a numerical expression , to which the term leaf factor has been applied by the author.* This character of the leaf\#151 ; a multiple organ\#151 ; is , within limits , a plant character also , and may be fully defined as the average factor of all leaves arising from the monopodial branches of the plant .
Pure types have been found to fall into two groups\#151 ; a broad-lobed , with a leaf factor \lt ; 2 , and a narrow-lobed , with a leaf factor \gt ; 3 .
In no case has purity of this character been found in the offspring of a plant with a leaf factor intermediate between these two values .
When crossing occurs between a broad- and a narrow-lobed type , the heterozygote has a leaf factor which is approximately the arithmetic mean of those of the two parental types .
In the F2 generation a series of forms is obtained , in which every value of leaf factor is found .
The distribution of individuals is , however , not uniform , but shows a definite arrangement into three groups , whose mean values agree approximately with those of the two parental types and the F2 heterozygote .
The curve obtained by plotting such a series is trimodal , the three modes corresponding respectively to the two parental and the intermediate values .
In subsequent generations the average leaf factor of the offspring approximates to that of the parent .
In other words , narrow- and broad-lobed plants will be found to breed pure , while the intermediate forms , though they may give a series of individuals with varying values of leaf factor , will give a larger proportion of broad- or narrow-lobed offspring , according as they themselves possess a leaf factor approximating to the broad- or to the narrow-lobed types .
4 .
Type of Branching and Length of Vegetative Period.\#151 ; As has been noted , the secondary branches of the cotton plant may be either monopodial or sympodial , and in some types the secondary branches are , with the exception of a few of the basal ones , all sympodial , while in others , with the exception of only a few apical branches , they are all monopodial .
In the latter case the vegetative period is prolonged , and no fruit is formed until the tertiary branches are developed .
The type of branching , therefore , can be recorded in two ways , either by the fraction of the main stem , measured from the * ' Journ. As .
Soc. Bengal , ' vol. 4 , p. 13 .
450 Experimental Studies in Indian .
base , bearing monopodial secondary branches , or by the length of the vegetative period , recorded in days from the time of sowing to the date of appearance of the first flower .
Both methods are subject to secondary influences which render the record approximate only .
The inter-relation between the two methods of record is given by the coefficient of correlation , which was found to be 0*681 for a series of plants forming the F2 generation of a single cross .
When a monopodial and a sympodial type are crossed , the heterozygote , though intermediate , approximates to the sympodial parent .
In the F3 generation a series of forms is obtained , of some of which the vegetative period is as short as , or shorter than , that of the sympodial parent , while it rarely reaches the length of the full monopodial parent .
On plotting the curve of such a series a single mode only appears , whose value agrees approximately with that of the heterozygous form .
The partial dominance found in the Fi generation persists here also .
In subsequent generations , as with the leaf factor , the average value of the length of the vegetative period of the offspring approximates to that of the parent .
In other words , the full sympodial and full monopodial forms will breed pure , but the intermediate forms will give rise to a series of forms with vegetative periods of varying lengths .
There appears to be correlation between the habit and the presence of the red colouring matter of the sap ; plants possessing the latter having a longer average vegetative period .
The behaviour of this character is , moreover , of great economic importance .
It is essential that plants should be of the sympodial type if their cultivation in the United Provinces is to be a commercial success , for the monopodial types do not flower in time to give a crop before the winter sets in .
At the same time , the majority of Indian cottons with a really valuable staple belong to the monopodial types .
The chief hope of improvement of the cotton crop in the United Provinces , therefore , has been based on the isolation of pure sympodial forms with the staple of the monopodial type .
5 .
Glands of the Leaf.\#151 ; The presence or absence of glands on the main veins of the leaf of the Types 4\#151 ; 9 , and 11 affords a means of sub-dividing these types .
Two pure conditions are recognisable that in which the glands are absent ( 0 ) , and that in which all the leaves of the main stem and monopodial branches bear three glands ( 3-1).* The other conditions , in which all the leaves bear one gland or , in general , those of * In this notation the first figure denotes the number of glands most commonly foumi on the leaves of the secondary monopodial branches , the second figure the number on the leaves of the main stem .
The Alcoholic Ferment of Yeast-juice .
451 the main stem only bear three glands ( 1-3 ) , appear to be impure .
Such plants are produced by crossing the two pure forms ( 0 ) and ( 3-1 ) .
Type 2 appears to be an exception , being a pure form with leaf glands ( 1 ) , while Types 3 and 10 have only been observed in the pure ( 3-1 ) condition .
Type 1 has not been observed sufficiently to justify a definite statement .
The Alcoholic Ferment of Yeast-juice .
Part VI.\#151 ; The Influence of Arsenates and Arsenites on the Fermentation of the Sugars by Yeast-juice .
By Arthur Harden , F.R.S. , and W. J. Young ( Biochemical Laboratory , Lister Institute ) .
( Received January 17 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1911 .
) The rate of fermentation of a simple sugar by yeast-juice undergoes a temporary acceleration when a soluble phosphate is added.* The close chemical analogy which exists between phosphates and arsenates suggested the idea that this similarity might extend to the effect of arsenates on fermentation , and accordingly experiments were made to test the point .
It was thus found that arsenates have a great effect on fermentation , but subsequent work has shown that it is of a totally different nature from that exerted by phosphates .
I. Influence of Arsenate on the Rate of Fermentation .
When a solution of sodium arsenate is added to a mixture of glucose , mannose or fructose with yeast-juice , which has attained a steady rate of fermentation , an immediate large increase in the rate of evolution of carbon dioxide is produced .
The rate , as a rule , rises for a short period , attains a maximum , and then very gradually diminishes .
A typical example is the following .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; The experiments throughout were carried out at 25 ' in presence of toluene , the solutions being previously saturated with carbon dioxide .
The standard solution of sodium arsenate employed was approximately 0'3 molar , and was prepared by dissolving 5'312 grammes of crystallised sodium arsenate in water , and making up to 100 c.c. Two * Harden and Young , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1906 , vol. 77 , p. 410 .

