278 On Gunshot Injuries of the Cerebral Hemispheres.[Mar .
lo5 VII .
" On the Effects produced on the Circulation and Respiration by Gunshot Injuries of the Cerebral Hemispheres .
" By S. P. Kramer , M.D. , and Victor Horsley , M.B. , F.R.C.S. , F.R.S. , Professor of Pathology in University College , London .
Received February 21 , 1894 .
( From the Laboratory of the Pathological Department , University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) In consequence of the fact that the effects produced on the circulation and respiration by a bullet passing through the cerebral hemispheres are hut little understood , the authors instituted a series of pathological experiments on etherised dogs , and of physical experiments on various substances .
The results obtained establish , beyond question , that the primary cause of death under these circumstances is not , as is usually supposed , due to failure of the heart , but to arrest of the respiratory movements .
Further , the authors have found , in confirmation of this , that death can be prevented by the employment of artificial respiration , except under certain circumstances detailed in the paper .
After describing the changes in the circulation produced , and which consist of ( a ) slight initial fall of blood pressure , ( 6 ) considerable later rise of blood pressure , ( c ) preservation of the rhythm of the heart , the authors discuss the physical effects of the projectile on the encephalic contents , and they show , as was originally contended by Professor Kocher , that the action of the bullet is essentially a hydrodynamic one , and that it is the lateral pressures which cause mechanical lesion of the respiratory centre .
In this respect the results obtained further support the original observations of Spencer and Horsley , recently confirmed by Hill , viz. , that the respiratory centre is the first to be seriously affected by changes in the intra-cranial tension .
Finally the authors point out that , supervening on the primary arrest of respiration , there ensues a gradual rise in the intra-cranial tension due to the haemorrhage within the skull cavity , and that the phenomena which then follow are the same as those described in the above-mentioned paper .

