]\gt ; The Dynamics of Reactions .
By Captain A. G. , I.M.S. , Assistant Director , The Pasteur Institute of Southern India , Coonoor .
Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1910 , \mdash ; Read March 30 , 1911 .
) A multitude of phenomena of widely varying character is seen in experimenting with blood sera : Agglutination , bacteriolysis , haemolysis , precipitin , opsonin , and stimulin reactions , and others occur .
In the serum two elements are distinctly recognisable : ( 1 ) A so-called amboceptor , which is characterised by its being able to withstano1 .
compara- tively high temperatures , and by the fact that it can act alone .
( 2 ) A so-called complement , which is put out of action by comparatively low temperatures , and which cannot act unless the amboceptor has previously acted .
It is the object of this paper to show that the above reactions are subject to the law of mass action , and that they can be expressed by the whole or part of the equation , ( 1 ) according as both elements are present , or only amboceptor is present .
cent. of amboceptor , , , complement , constant of dilution , complex quantity , denoting effect , as observed in any of the above reactions , time .
This formula merely states thab amboceptoral action is bimolecular , and that complement action is monomolecular , under the influence of a catalytic effect of the amboceptor .
Writing the equation thus : ( 2 ) is the mathematical form of stating the characters of the two components ( as given the hypothesis that amboceptoral action is directly VOL LXXXIIL\mdash ; B. 2 494 Captain A. G. McKendrick .
[ Nov. 30 , opposed to complement plus catalyst action\mdash ; not a direct opposition in the fluid , but an opposition in their action on the cell .
concentration of free amboceptor , concentration of free complement , concentration of amboceptor , both free and combined ( i.e. the ooncentration in which it acts catalytically ) .
The fundamental equation ( 1 ) was obtained from a study of the value of got by mixing varying proportions of and The details of experiment are as follows : materials used were human serum for the serum components , and the cells were washed horse cells .
Three fluids were made A series of dilutions of each of these fluids was put up as follows:\mdash ; I used this arrangement of combinations of heated and unheated sera because by it the area in which the phenomenon of diversion occurs , whose characteristics I had set out particularly to investigate , can be explored and 1910 .
The Chemical Dynamics of Serum Reactions .
495 disclosed to view .
The tubes were incubated at C. for one hour , and were placed on ice overnight .
The observed results are given in Table I the lowest complete lysis , in Table II for the lowest partial lysis .
The first two give observed values , and the third column contains the corresponding values calculated by means of the fundamental equation , which will be referred to later .
Table I.\mdash ; For Complete vsis .
and varying ; constant ; ( i.e. when the reaction has ceased ) .
( the method by which these constants were obtained will be explained at the end of this section after the mathematical discussion ) .
Table II.\mdash ; For Lowest Partial Lysis .
Conditions as in Table I. 496 Captain A. G. McKendrick .
[ Nov. 30 , The results of this experiment are shown in Chart 1 , where points\mdash ; Marked indicate complete lysis .
, , nearly complete lysis .
, , partial , , slight , , , , a trace of lysis .
It is particularly to be noticed tflat the curves are thrown back ( towards the right ) in their upper parts .
This exhibits the special phenomenon already ferred to ) called\ldquo ; lement diversion As the curves appeared to form a regular series , I considered that the principle lying at the root of serum reactions was to be found in this phenomenon .
Assuming the curves to be hyperbolic from their appearance when was constant , I looked for the asymptotes .
One asymptote was obviously ; another suggests as of the form ; for , letting 1910 .
] The of Serum ctions .
take smaller and smaller values , this asymptote approached closer and closer to .
At the same time , it was clear that , in general , these inclined asymptotes cut the axis of at some point other than the origin ; and , on the other hand , this point of intersection reached the origin when became zero that is , there was no lysis in the absence of both amboceptor and complement .
I chose , then , as the final equation for this asymptote , Hence the equation of any of these curves , in which was constant , became , ( 3 ) where was in general some function of , to be determined .
The experimental curves showed that lytic value for any one of these curves could not be attained if the complement fell below a minimal amount , depending on the constant value of the lysis for the particular curve in question .
Seeing that the phenomenon of " " diversion\ldquo ; begins here , the corresponding point on any hyperbola may appropriately be called " " point of diversion At a point of diversion the tangent to the hyperbola is parallel to the axis of ; hence to find these points we have only to find and from equation ( 3 ) , and from the equation got from putting derived from it when , and therefore , are constant .
This latter equation is .
( 4 ) Whence , by means of ( 3 ) , we get at once , and ( 5 ) the co-ordinates of the\ldquo ; point of diversion\ldquo ; in terms of The co-ordinates of the " " point of diversion\ldquo ; of any of these hyperbolas satisfy equation ( 4 ) for constant .
The envelope of this line , for variations of , is .
( 6 ) If we assume that all ' points of diversion\ldquo ; lie on this parabolic cylinder\mdash ; a view which , at least , seems favoured by the appearance of the curves\mdash ; we are able to determine as a function of .
For , writing equation ( 4 ) in the form by equation ( 6 ) it becomes , or , ( 7 ) whence 498 Captain A. G. McKendrick .
and equation ( 3 ) takes the form or , finally , [ Nov. 30 , At a point of diversion , where , we have the equations , whence Further , when is constant , leads in a similar manner to equation ( 4 ) and the associated equations .
Ihese last two results can easily be seen from the geometry alone of the figure .
Equation 8 ) is the equilibrium condition of the theoretical equation ( 2 ) , with the substitution of in place of and 2 in place of Equation ( 1 ) has now been arrived at .
To prove that it is correct , it must agree with experimental results for all values of , and .
I shall show from certain of these that it does so .
If experiments be well planned , the constants and can be obtained with ease .
The simplest mode of procedure is to erect an experiment on a line constant , choosing a low value of .
The concentration of which gives the greatest degree of lysis , fulfils the requirements of equations ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , for is the family curve of the points of diversion , and the tangent at the point diversion is parallel to the axis .
If a small series of this sort be put up , the tube which shows the first flash of lysis may be taken as an approximation , and a further series of tubes with concentrations differing only slightly from this may be put up forthwith .
When the concentration of which causes maximum lysis in the series has been determined , the equation evaluates .
The maximum degree of lysis having been evaluated colorimetrically , the equation gives the value of for that degree of lysis .
In the experiment which I have described , another method had to be adopted .
As I have shown , the asymptote for a constant value of is , and its slope In the series ( Chart 1 ) erected on the line , complete lysis values are succeeded by incomplete in the upper half of the line .
Thus , for complete lysis is greater than 1 .
I chose its value at In the series erected on the line , partial lysis values are succeeded in the upper part of the line by a value ' slight\mdash ; partiaL\ldquo ; Thus , for partial lysis is slightly greater than .
I chose its value as : These approximaGions wodified themical Dynamics octions.iversion f for complete lysis for lowest partial lysis IL and varying ; constant . .
Vide Chart 2.\mdash ; The following experiment is taken from Arrhenius ( ' Immuno Chemistry , ' English Edition , p. 225 ) , for his value , i.e. , per cent. I have expressed his units in percentages , e.g. , means for 92 por cent. lysis .
500 .
Captain A. G. McKendrick .
[ Nov. 30 The constants were obtained as follows:\mdash ; The summit of the observed curve vide is shown as lying between 3 and4 .
I chose as the summit , and that the degree of lysis at this point was 92 per cent. The value of is throughout the whole curve .
The summit conditions are given by equations ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) .
By equation we have or By equation ( 7 ) Therefore for 92 per cent. lysis .
A comparison of observed and calculated values in Chart 2 shows more clearly than the figures do that all the singularities of the curve are fulfilled .
III .
and varying ; amboceptor ( y ) constant . .
Chart 3.\mdash ; To find the constants in the plane is much more difficult .
A point of flexion may be found within the range of experiment .
When little amboceptor is present it lies near the axis .
When much more amboceptor is present it is not seen ; the curve is nearly flat ; the point , as a matter of fact , lies beyond the line of complete lysis .
The curve thus occurs in widely different forms .
For low values of it is almost entirely convex upwards .
For high values of it is concave upwards , in reality nearly flat , for intermediate values it assumes an form .
Some of these forms are shown in Chart 3 .
The point of flexion can be found mathematically as follows .
-arrange equation ( 8 ) ; thus and When ( the point sought for ) , either , which is obviously not the case , or 6 , i.e. .
( 11 ) Substituting this value of in ( 8 ) , we find .
( 12 ) 1910 .
The Chemical Dynamics of Serum Reactions .
Consequently , ( 14 ) The following experiment shows these facts very clearJy .
Normal human serum was made up in the following proportions:\mdash ; Tubes were put up in two series .
c.c. Series l.\mdash ; Serum mixture . . .
-per-cent .
solution .
Washed horse cells Total i.e. in this series amboceptor per cent. Captain A. G. McKendrick .
[ Nov. 30 , Series 2.\mdash ; Serum mixture .
-per-cent .
solution .
1.45 Washed horse cells . . .
0.05 Total .
i.e. in this series amboceptor per cent. The tubes were incubated at 37 C. for two hours , and kept on ice overnight .
They were then estimated for lysis by colorimetry .
The results are as follows ( vide Chart ) The constants were obtained as follows:\mdash ; The observed results having been charted it was observed that in the curve for there was a point of inflexion whose co-ordinates were approximately ( Lysis per cent. ) .
By equation ( 11 ) , thus By equation ( 12 ) , thus Substituting this value in ( 11 ) , These approximations were subsequently modified to and for 50 per cent. lysis .
Chart 3 shows more remarkably than the tabulated results do , how complete is the accordance between the theoretical and the observed forms of curve .
lowest curve Chart The form , with its point of flexion , is shown for the value , and the preliminary concavity for the higher value .
An experimental point of note is that for observed results to agree with the equation of equilibrium , it is absolutely necessary that the reaction should be allowed to 1910 .
The Chemical Dynamics of Serum Reactions .
continue for a sufficient period of time .
One hour at C. is insufficient ; under such conditions the bulges in the form are much more developed , but the curve is not calculable by equation ( 8 ) , as the system is not in equilibrium .
I have found that incubation for two hours at C. , followed by 12 hours in the ice box , is sufficient for practical purposes .
The variables , and , have now been fully observed ; and the surface obtained by the equation of equilibrium rees in every detail and in all its properties with the form obtained from experiment .
IV .
and varying .
Complement absent ; effect constant .
This leads us into a different domain of serum reactions , , agglutination .
Equation ( 1 ) loses its fraction dependent on concentration of complement , .and becomes On fration ( 16 ) The appended table is taken from Arrhenius , I have added as a fourth colulnn results calculated from the right hand of equation ( 16)\mdash ; These constants were obtained by simultaneous equations obtained by introducing observed values of and in equation ( 16 ) .
Arrhenius considers that there is an experimental error in the first value ( of , due to the fact that the liquids were not inJmediately brought to a constant temperature , and considers to be constant ( mean for last values ) .
I would suggest that the discrepancy lies iu the later figures .
Agglutination is measured by the eye .
When the reaction is fast the flocouli .are larger and are more easily observed .
When the reaction is slow .agglutination occurs in smaller , more discrets particles , and observed times .
104 . .
Th elation betueen amd which gives a Maximum Velocity.\mdash ; when when increase velocity increment zero ) , then and this equation is satisfied when i.e. at " " points of diversion This conclusion is made use of in the method of finding the approximate value of , as described at the end of Section I. the Reaction is performed in Two Stages ( Supersensitisatiom phenomena ) be .
The first part of the experiment follows tha equation When saturation has been accomphshed , If for complete lysis was at the commencement of the reaction , it is after the first palt of the experiment equal to ( call this ) .
' If complement be now added , the reaction follows the equation ( The value is retained as all the amboceptor has become attached .
) When equilibrium has been reached , Had the experiment been performed in the usual manner in the presence of both components , equilibrium would have been reached when That is to say the " " point of diversion\ldquo ; would have been at been at 1910 .
The Chemical of Serum Reactions .
Thus the value of at the point of diversion in the divided experiment would be in the simultaneous experiment The state of affairs is shown simply in the accompanying diagram:\mdash ; I. Let us suppose that the serum employed contained of amboceptor and of complement .
In an ordinary simultaneous experiment , complete lysis would occur at the point , the curve for complete lysis being the line If , however , the experiment is performed in two stages , the initial action of amboceptor is to shift the line of complete lysis from to .
Consequently , the line will now be a line of partial lysis , the available quantity of complement being insufficient to lyse the supersensitised cells .
If be increased to , complete lysis will be attained .
An advanced degree of this phenomenon is shown in the following experiment:\mdash ; * guinea.pig serum .
Cells .
of a .
suspension from guinea-pig .
* Ehrlieh , : Studies iu Immunity , ' English editio1l , a horse , " " Rich which had been immunised against staphyloooccus , the treatment covering a period of about two years .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 .
'Journ .
of Path .
and Bact 1908 , vol. 12 , 1910 .
] The Chemical Dynamics of Serum Reactions .
507 Comparison of these curves ( especially that of Dean ) with Chart 2 shows a marked similarity .
Stated shortly , the characteristics of opsonin and stimulin reactions are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) An unheated normal serum induces phagocytosis of organisms by leucocytes .
( 2 ) A heated normal serum induces practically no ocytosis .
( 3 ) An unheated immune serum induces strong phagocytosis .
( 4 ) A heated serum induces marked ocytosis .
The phenomenon of ocytosis consists of two stages : firstly , approximation of the anism to the leucocyte , probably by some amboceptoral action , possibly by chance collision ; and , secondly , inclusion of the organism by the leucocyte .
The leucocyte is mdoubtedly a source of complement , so there may be present a zone of complement in or about it .
Let us return to the comparison between the curves on Charts 2 and 4 , for the moment that complement takes part in the reaction .
If complement acted proportionally to its concentration in the serum , then the experiment would appear on a plane erected on the line / Rearranging equation ( 8 ) , , and extracting roots , we have can have only one positive value when ; has equal roots ( i.e. , the summit of the curve ) when , or Thus if lysis at the summit per cent. , it cannot fall below 75 per cent. in the plane Marshall 's curve , however , falls to 50 per cent. at least , whilst Dean 's falls ( within the limits of experiment ) to 86 per cent. Let us now return to the characteristics ( 1 to 4 ) above .
That a heated normal serum induces practically no phagocytosis , whereas a heated immune serum may induce a marked reaction , would suggest that S the amboceptor ( which is present in large quantity in the latter ) acts as a stimulant on the leucocyte to secrete complement .
From this point of view Marshall 's curve would lie in the plane .
Dean 's curve , on the other hand , which is that of a normal serum ( which when heated would yield practically no phagocytosis ) , would : lie either in the plane , or where is a very small quantity .
I have calculated this curve , both in planes , in which * case the observed value of with full concentration lies too low , and in the plane , in which case the observed value is too high .
Thus , to summarise , amboceptor and complement both take part in the reaction .
Complement is supplied by the serum ( if this source be available ) or from the leucocyte , by virtue of sCimulation of the cell by the amboceptor\mdash ; a stimulation to secrete complement , which acts locally .
The curves of Dean and Marshall ( Chart 4 ) are merely further exhibitions of the phenomenon of complement " " diversion ( Marshall also gives curves of heated immune sera experiments which show the diversion phenomenon .
) The following points may be of use in calculating curves and finding the values of constants in the plane .
When , equation ( 8 ) assumes the form .
( 17 ) has a maximum value when , or , and consequently : has only one positive Yalue when .
Thus is the asymptote .
its value at the " " point of diversion consequently at the point of diversion and on the asymptote .
proportional to the amount of present in the undiluted serum .
consequ.oint oiversion occurs whenz amounts ohave bransformed Ieffect.udes , degree offect , resistance tooucentration ouffNow bquation ( oint oandVIII TImJnunity)tant iactor Ifrom apoint oThus isympto.nown , 1910 .
] The Chemical Dynamics of ctions .
acted upon ( in the special case of haemolysis , the number of cells acted upon ) .
In equation 1 ) it was used to denote the ratio ( see equation 10 ) .
Thus , ( 18 ) where effect , function of the number of cells , or the concentration of stuff acted upon , internal resistance ( e.g. , of the cell ) , external resistance , and a function of the temperature .
Since and measure the total quantities of amboceptor and complement in a serum , the determination of and will afford absolute values for these two components ; will be the measure of units of amboceptor , and the measure of uIlits of complement .
An increase in will correspond to a decrease or deterioration of complement , and an increase in to a decrease in amboceptor .
In immunisation , however , amboceptor is supposed to increase , and complement to remain more or less constant .
Thus in immunisation there would be a decrease in and a corresponding increase in It is on this basis that indices of immunity , obtained from experiments in which both amboceptor and complement take part , must resC .
The present system of bacteriolytic and opsonic indices , based on the observation of a single dilution of the serum to be investigated , is and must be liable to error .
In the case of horse " " Rich\ldquo ; the opsonic index for the whole serum had fallen , after two treatment with staphylococcus , although I believe that the content in amboceptor had actually increased .
I would point out that an animal such as this one , even its opsonic ( or other compound ) index had decreased , would be more potent as a source of staphylococcic serum than it was when its index .
Such an should not be discarded without caleful testing .
This fact is also of extreme importance with to treatment of patients by immunising .
For instance , the opsonic index obtained by whole serum evaluation would fall off in the later stages of a protracted course of treatment , even although the serum had gained in amboceptoral content .
I do not think that this would be a dangerous state of affairs from the patient 's point of view , as possibly hc may possess resistive power in a potential state , but the fact is worthy of note and of research .
With regard to the value , .
Throughout this paper , and in my experiments , I have taken to be sufficiently great to absorb all the amboceptor used .
But other conditions may prevail .
For instance , in opsonic experiments there is a limit in the size of the cell , which would VOL. LXXXIIL\mdash ; B. 2 itself , if on Captain G McKendrickh em was present itself , if only avery small number of them was present .
In glutination experiments , if the organisms few in number , a portion of would remain unabsorbed .
* IX .
and Antitoxins.\mdash ; Ehrlich has that the toxin molecule has two receptors , a toxophorous , which is comparatively thermolabile , and a haptophorous , which is thermostable .
Arrhenius has stated that these receptors may be considered to belong to two different molecules .
I shall go a step further , and by the chief characters of toxins , and their neutralisation by antitoxins , show that these two factors are probably amboceptor and complement , and that the antitoxin is an antiamboceptor:\mdash ; A primary characteristic of toxins is that different samples may in their minimal lethal dose ( M.LD .
) , whilst they disagree in the amount of antitoxin necessary for their neutralisation .
Fig. 3 is a form of chart obtained as on Chart 1 , effect in Chart 1 , signified complete lysis , i.e. death of the cell .
It may now be considered as a " " lethal\ldquo ; line ) .
Toxins consisting of\mdash ; all have the same lethal effect , but the quantity of an anti-amboceptor requisite for neutralisation would be , equivalents respectively .
( b ) A second characteristic is that a toxin which has deteriorated in lethal effect still requires the same amount of antitoxin to neutrahse it .
This is obviously a corollary of For instance , let a toxin deteriorate to equivalents of anti-amboceptor will be required for neutralisation of both the fresh and the deteriorated states , but the lethal effect will have been much diminished .
As amboceptor has been considered to remain constant during deterioration , 1910 .
] The Chemical Dynamics of Serum Reactions .
511 the lethal dose may be measured in terlns of amboceptor .
In the fresh state the dose is measured by od , and in the deteriorated by op ( fig. 3 ) .
( c ) A third characteristic is in the curious curve which toxicity ( as ordinate ) assumes , as increasing quantities of antitoxin ( as abscissa ) are added .
The curve is an written backwards .
At first it is almost flat ( ascribed by Ehrlich to prototoxoid ) , then it descends more sharply , finally it becomes flatter .
Arrhenius has shown that the flat finish can be explained on the principle of mass action equilibria between toxi1l .
and antitoxin , but the flat commencement cannot thus be explained .
Toxicity is inversely proportional to the minimal dose , and is to be distinguished from , which means of effect .
Minimal lethal dose can be shown in fig. ( 3 ) as follows : Let 1 .
of a toxin contain We can measure this by or : Thus .
Now , .
to cause death , or must be produced to oq , the lethal line , that is to say , the minimal lethal dose is , and the toxicity Now suppose we have a toxin contaimng in 1 , and that , afteracting on it with anti-amboceptor , is reduced to The dose of vide , bnt the lethal dose of The toxicity is If we assume , as a simple case , that is neutralised by units of antitoxin , then the curve of toxicity is flat at first , and becomes more and more steep as more antitoxin is added .
But if we assume with Arrhenius that complete neutralisation never occurs , ) this is drawn out in its final part , and never reaches the abscissa .
Thus the prototoxoid phenomenon will appear in certain cnses , and I would add that it is possible that the curve might even commenoe with a rise , i.e. a toxin might be found which became apparently more toxic on addition of a small quantity of antitoxin .
1 am not aware that this .
has been observed .
These three primary characteristics of toxin and antitoxin ] lave thus been shown to be fully described by the equilibrium relation of equation ( 1 ) taken in conjunction with Arrhenius 's views ; the haptophorous group being represented by amboceptor , the toxophorous group by complement , and antitoxin by anti-amboceptor .
Sum .
1 .
Amboceptor and complement are opposed in their aotion on the with the proviso that the former acts catalyst to the latter .
512 The emical Dof 2 .
Complement action is lytic ; amboceptoral action is primarily polymerising , or , as the case may be , glutinative ; and , secondarily , catalytic to complement .
3 .
The relation of these substances is expressed by the law of mass action , in the form 4 .
When the substance acted upon is in sufficient quantity , this expression describes all serum reactions , viz. , haemolysis , bacteriolysis , opsonin and stimulin reactions , rlutination , precipitation and toxin action .
5 .
Toxins are compound and consist of amboceptor and complement .
[ Note.\mdash ; The idea that amboceptor and complement were opposed in their actions has been held by Captain W. F. Harvey and myself for many years .
We joined in many experiments to prove our idea .
It was only recently that I determined to investigate diversion phenomena from a mathematical point of view .
I did so , and found , at the end of work , that I had again to have recourse to this same view of opposed action , result which I had not foreseen .
Captain I were in the habit of amboceptors polym and complement , and I know of no better names to describe their properties .
Amboceptoral action is always , when acting alone , a polymerising one , whereas agglutination may , or may not , occur in the course of polymerisation .
Agglutination is a molar , whereas polymerisation is a molecular phenomenon .
Indeed , as has been shown by Muir , reduction of polymerisation by complement cause utination .
I have also to express my thanks to Major .
Cornwall and Dr. Kesava Pai , the Director and Assistant of this laboratory\mdash ; the Pasteur Institute of Southern India .

