1877 .
] On the Development of Organisms .
503 In counting the drops on the plate , judgment is required in distinguishing drops that have split off the rays from those that have split off later from the arms .
Often the arrangement on the plate is so confused that no estimate can be made ; at other times great regularity of the arrangement gives a probability almost amounting to certainty to the estimate .
The number of arms , as in fig. 8 , Set 1 , was estimated by judging of the angle between alternate arms .
The estimate was sometimes confirmed by drops splitting off the arms and being left on the plate , as in the case of the rays .
Thus I am pretty certain that , with a height of fall of 270 millims. , the number of arms was often 18 .
I may mention that I have obtained " patterns " on thinly smoked glass , made by drops of oil and mercury falling in an approximate vacuum of a pressure of 20 millims. of mercury .
The marks thus obtained differ from those made in air , the central spot of lampblack being smaller in the case of air .
Tor low heights of fall the difference is not perceptible , but it becomes very marked as the height is increased from 100 to 500 millims. With a liquid which wets the surface on which it falls ( as , for instance , milk on glass ) I find that the earliest stages are very similar to the first two of Set 1 ; but no well-marked main rays are seen , as in fig. 3 .
The annular ridge of fig. 4 is seen to overflow the slightly protruding rays , and form a figure like number 7 , with slight undulations which do not afterwards increase into arms .
It is , I think , worthy of remark that in the case of mercury on smoked glass , where the adhesion is least , the main ridges appear early before the drop is much spread out .
On a clean glass , where the adhesion is greater , the main ridges first appear rather later , and are somewhat less strongly marked ; while with milk on a clean glass , to which it adheres strongly , no ridges are seen at all .
IV .
" Preliminary Note on the Development of Organisms in Organic Infusions .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1877 .
I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society a brief preliminary note of the results obtained in the further prosecution of my researches " On the Optical Deportment of the Atmosphere , with reference to Putrefaction and Infection .
" The very remarkable experiments of Dr. Roberts , of Manchester , which have been confirmed by Professor Cohn , of Breslau , have been both verified and contradicted by my recent researches .
In some cases alkalized hay-infusions have been completely sterilized by boiling for five minutes , in other cases they have withstood the boiling temperature for a far longer period .
Prof. J. Tyndall on the Development of [ Jan. 18 , Pursuing with scrupulous exactness the method of experiment devised by Dr. Roberts , and in part followed by Professor Cohn , I have found in other infusions than hay an enormous resistance to sterilization .
A single conspicuous example will serve as an illustration .
Cucumber-infusion has been subjected , for intervals varying from five minutes to five hours and a half , to the boiling temperature without losing its power of developing life .
Two days ' exposure to a temperature of 90 ' Fahr. , subsequent to this treatment , sufficed to develop in it swarms of Bacteria .
The infusion which thus withstood , in one of Dr. Roberts 's " plugged bulbs , " the temperature of boiling water for 330 minutes , was completely sterilized in three minutes by boiling it in a small flask with a narrow neck , and hermetically sealing the flask during ebullition .
In the case of the " plugged bulbs " the observed resistance was due , not to the germs of the infusion , but to those diffused in the air above it .
I have also pursued my experiments with closed chambers , from which the floating matter was removed by self-subsidence .
With certain new infusions introduced into this inquiry failure after failure occurred , two or three days generally sufficing to fill the boiled and protected liquids with Bacterial life .
The vegetable infusions usually became turbid throughout ; but a characteristic feature of the life developed in all infusions during the last three months was the formation upon their surfaces of a thick and deeply pitted fatty scum .
Precautions far greater than those found successful a year ago failed to protect these infusions from contamination .
I resorted to the mode of calcination by an incandescent platinum wire , applied with such uniform success in my last inquiry .
The wire was brought close to its point of fusion , the period of incandescence was doubled , and extraordinary care was taken to ward off infection by a ring of cotton-wool .
The care proved nugatory ; for , in despite of it , swarming life appeared in the infusions afterwards .
I tried to reproduce the results with animal infusions obtained with such ease and certainty a year ago .
Some of these old infusions , highly concentrated by evaporation , remain with me to the present hour ; they are as clear as distilled water .
But in my recent experiments , where the care bestowed far exceeded that found necessary in my last inquiry , the animal infusions , like the vegetable ones , fell , for the most part , into putrefaction .
With hermetically sealed flasks , properly boiled and sealed with due care ( I would emphasize this condition ) , there was no difficulty in sterilizing any of the animal infusions .
By the scrupulous removal of every possible source of contamination I was able finally to maintain some of the most refractory of the liquids operated on perfectly pellucid , in closed chambers from which the floating dust had disappeared by self-subsidence .
It is to be noted that the earliest experiments of this inquiry were 1877 .
] Organisms in Organic Infusions .
505 quite in harmony with all the results of the former one , and that it was only as time advanced that the singular discordance between recent and former results showed itself in any marked degree .
What was the cause of this discordance ?
The question is to be answered by reference to the experiments with hay-infusions , which were begun early and were multiplied and varied later on .
By practice such a mastery over these infusions was at length attained that , though the same method of experiment was undeviatingly pursued , I could contradict or corroborate , at will , the observations of Dr. Roberts and Professor Cohn .
On analyzing these apparently irreconcilable results , it was found that , in almost every case where five minutes ' boiling sufficed to sterilize alkalized hay-infusion , the hay employed was mown in 1876 , while in almost every case where the greater resistance to sterilization was shown , the hay was mown either in 1875 or some previous year .
The hay found most difficult to sterilize was from Colchester , and it was five years old .
To the drying and hardening of the germs of the old hay by time I ascribe this singular result .
An experiment on artificially dried peas , as compared with the same peas undried , is not without instruction .
After boiling for an hour or so , the undried peas became tasteless , while the dried ones retained a considerable amount of flavour .
After a couple of hours ' boiling the undried peas rendered the water in which they were immersed thickly turbid , the liquid surrounding the dried peas remaining at the same time perfectly clear .
The dried peas were rendered soft , but many of the green peas were reduced by two hours ' boiling to a mere pulp , the mixture of which with the water rendered it muddy .
The comparative tastelessness of the undried peas proved that their juices , which are an essential factor of their individuality , and probably also of their power of germination , had diffused into the surrounding water .
On the other hand , the clearness of the water which embraced the dried peas indicated a restriction of the exchange of matter between the peas and the medium in which they were immersed .
The experiment threw light upon the fact that even with four or five hours ' digesting , it was impossible to make the specific gravity of the samples of my oldest hay sensibly greater than that of water .
The dryness and induration of the old hay thus indicated being shared by the germs attached to the hay , endowed them , I doubt not , with their greater power of resistance .
Experiments have also been made with new hay dried artificially at temperatures varying from 140 ' to 185 ' Fahr. , an account of which shall be communicated in due time to the Royal Society .
The different samples of hay employed in this investigation were introduced in succession into the laboratory of the Royal Institution , and they ended by rendering the atmosphere of the place so virulently infective that precautions which , under ordinary circumstances , were more than 506 On Gigantic Land-Tortoises .
[ Jan. 25 , sufficient to secure perfect immunity from external contamination , were found utterly ineffectual .
Thanks to the friendly action of the President of the Royal Society , I was enabled to escape from this atmosphere to a purer air .
I had a series of tin chambers constructed , which were not permitted to enter the Royal Institution at all , but were taken straight from the tinman to Kew Gardens .
They were mounted in the excellent laboratory recently erected there by the munificence of Mr. Jodrell .
In this new position the insuperable difficulties encountered in London disappeared , and the experiments followed the course of those described in my last investigation .
Two of the chambers gave way ; but on being scrutinized they were found leaky .
Five sound chambers , on the contrary , remained perfectly intact , and they embraced the particular substances which had given me so much trouble in London .
Infusions exposed to the common air at Kew became rapidly rotten .
A fuller account of these researches shall soon be submitted to the Royal Society .
In prosecuting them thus far I have been very ably assisted by Mr. Cottrell and his junior colleague Mr. Frank Yalter .
January 25 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Description of the Living and Extinct Races of Gigantic Land-Tortoises.\#151 ; Parts III .
and IY .
The Races of the Aldabra Group and Mascarene Islands .
" ( Conclusion .
) By Dr. Albert Gunther , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In continuation of , and concluding , the researches into the history of the Gigantic Land-Tortoises , read before the Royal Society on June 20 , 1874 , and published in the 165th volume of the Philosophical Transactions , the author treats in Parts III .
and IY .
of the Tortoises of the Aldabra Group and Mascarenes .
By the addition of the valuable materials obtained by one of the naturalists of the " Transit-of-Yenus " Expedition to RodrigUez , and by the Hon. Edward Newton in Mauritius , as well as by the aid of supplementary information received from other sources , the author has been enabled to show in the present parts of his paper that the round-headed C

