1890 .
] Photography for determining Variability Stars .
January 23 , 1890 .
Sir Gr .
GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that at the next meeting a Member of Council would he balloted for in place of the Rev. S. J. Perry , deceased .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On a Photographic Method for determining Variability m Stars .
" By Isaac Roberts , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received January 14 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) Some of the uncertainties which necessarily attend the determination of variability in the brightness of stars by eye observations are removed by the application of photographic methods , and particularly by that of giving two or more exposures of the same photographic plate to a given sky space , with intervals of days or weeks between each exposure .
_ _ . .
In this way any errors caused by atmospheric , actinic , or c emica changes , together with those due to personal bias , are eliminated , and the study of stellar variability can be pursued under conditions that admit of the necessary exactitude .
As an illustration of the applicability of this dual photograp ic method , the enlargement on paper from the negative , which accom panies the full paper , shows the results obtained by two exposures o the same plate to the sky in the region of the great nebula in Oiion .
The first exposure was of two hours ' duration on the 29th January , and the second of two and a half hours on the 3rd February , 1889 .
The stellar images formed during the two exposures are 0'0122 of an inch apart , measured from centre to centre , and are therefore comparable with each other in the field of a microscope .
When the images are examined in the manner thus indicated and their diameters also measured by means of a suitably made eye-piece micrometer , it is found that at least ten of the photog*raphed stars , the magnitudes of which are estimated to range between the 7th and 15th , have changed to a considerable extent in the short interval of five days .
138 Dr. J. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 23 , The ten stars referred to are to be found within an area of less than two square degrees of the sky , and in the table given are the coordinates of their positions with reference to theta Orionis .
The measurements of the diameters of their photo-images on a scale of 000002 of an inch are also given .
IX ti physical Properties of Nickel Steel .
" By J. Hopkinson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1890 .
Mr. Riley , of the Steel Company of Scotland , has kindly sent me samples of wire drawn from the material concerning the magnetic properties of which I recently made a communication to the Royal Society .
As already stated , this material contains 25 per cent , of nickel and about 74 per cent , of iron , and over a range of temperature from something below freezing to 580 ' C. it can exist in two states , magnetic and non-magnetic .
The wire as sent to me was magnetisable as tested by means of a magnet in the ordinary way .
On heating it to a dull redness it became non-magnetisable whether it was cooled slowly or exceedingly rapidly by plunging it into water .
A quantity of the wire was brought into the non-magnetisable state by heating it , and allowing it to cool .
The electric resistance of a portion of this wire , about 5 metres in length , was ascertained in terms of the temperature ; it w as first of all tried at the ordinary temperature , and at temperatures up to 340 ' C. The specific resistances at these temperatures are indicated in the curve by the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 .
The wire was then cooled by means of solid carbonic acid , the supposed course of change of resistance is indicated by the dotted lire on the curve , the actual observations of resistance , howTever , are indicated by the crosses in

