AN ESSAY Towards An UNIVERSALALPHABE T. By Mr. Francis Lodwick R. S. S. HAving observed a great difficulty iu truly writing what is pronounced , or truly pronouncing what is written , either in our own or foreign Languages , by the Ordinary Alphabets now in use , arising either from the want of some Letters , or the differing Pronunciation of the same Character or Letter in differing Languages and the irregularities of its various Sounds in any one Language ; I saw a necessity of some such expedient as I have here attempted , Viz .
An Universal Alphabet , which should contain an Enumeration of all such single Sounds or Letters as are used in any Language , which I have endeavoured by Examining all those Languages , which hitherto I have considered : Altho ' this my attempt be not new , but what before by others hath been attempted , yet I hope what herein I have done will not be unuseful .
The Benefits of such a Collection being perfect .
1 .
Children from their first beginning , being taught and accustomed to the true Expression of all these single Sounds or Letters , will without difficulty be brought to pronounce truly and readily any Language how seemingly difficult soever ever ; for the pretended difficulty to some Persons of Pronouncing some Letters , is only that they have not been accustomed to pronounce them , either single or in conjunction with others : and this difficulty is chiefly in Persons come to Age .
2 .
It will enable any one , accustomed to the true Pronunciation of this Alphabet , truly to describe the Pronunciation of any Language whatever , that shall in his hearing be distinctly pronounced ; so as another also accustomed to this Alphabet , altho ' he before never had heard this Language pronounced , shall notwithstanding at first sight of such Writing , be able so truly to pronounce it , that it shall ( if at all ) very little differ from the Original Pronunciation .
Whereas by the use of the common Alphabets , if any strange Language be written , another that 's a stranger to that Language , shall never be able truly to pronounce such a Writing , as it should be , or was by the writer intended , nor even the Writer himself sometime after that he hath forgotten what Sound he designed to describe : 3 .
It will also be useful to perpetuate the true Sounds of any Language , and serve as a standard thereof to after-Ages : For if all the single Sounds expressable , be here Characterized .
And that no one Character have more than one Sound , nor any one Sound be expressed by more than one Character ; it cannot fall out that any Character should be falsely pronounced , but it will soon be discovered ; for this false Sound he gives it , must be the true Sound of some other Letter of this Alphabet : and so none can Err herein , but he that wilfully or carelessly will do it .
In this Collection I proceed according to these Rules .
1 .
THat no true single Sound can be truly described or expressed by the Conjunction of any two or more other single Sounds , Viz .
If a Vowel , by the Conjunction of other single Vowels , or if a Consonant , by the Conjunction of other single Consonants .
2 .
That whatever Sound cannot be expressed or described , but by the Conjunction of two or more single Sounds , is no single but a compounded Sound .
3 .
That in every composition of single Sounds , the particular single Sounds which make up that Composition , ought to be truly and clearly discerned in the Sound of the Composition , otherwise it cannot be truly said to be a Composition , and composed of such single Sounds .
The Single Sounds USually named Letters , are commonly distinguished into Vowels and Consonants .
Vowels are such as are singly expressable , as , a , e , o , &amp;c. Consonants are such as cannot singly be expressed without the Conjunction of a Vowel , as , b , d , f , g , &amp;c. Of~Vowels .
THe whole number of them are these 14 following , to which , for the better discerning of their Sounds , I have annexed so many words wherein they are expressed , all English but three , Viz .
the 7 , ~ , 12 , because no English words occurred to my Memory , wherein they are expressed .
1a as tall 8 ui---muis Lowdutch 2 a---tallow 9 y-- the 3 a---tale 10 o---tone 4 e---tell 11 u---tunne 5 ea--teal 12 u---une French 6 i---till 13 oo---tool 7 u---dure French 14 ou---tould These are the Vowels , each of which are long and short .
Short as in the words , God , Man , Sin. Long as in Ball , Demand , Seen , &amp;c. Of Diphthongs .
A Diphthong in the ordinary use of the Word signifies a Compound of two Vowels , but those in ordinary so named , are most of them nothing but only single Vowels , as ea , oo , ou , eo , ai , in the Words teal , tool , told , people , main , &amp;c. That these are but single Sounds will appear .
if we consider the Sounds of the Vowels singly , that make those supposed Compositions , and then whether those Sounds in Composition will make out the true Sound required ; so as both of them may be clearly discerned in these pretended Compounds .
For instance ; in ea in Teal .
Consider the Sound of e in the word sent , or in the Word scene ; and a in the Word ball , or in the Word and , or in the Word tale , and then whether e , in either of the two Sounds going before , and a in either of the three Sounds following joined together , will make out the true Sound of ea in the Word teal , if not , then it is a single Sound ; thus , if you proceed to examine all the other , you will I doubt not find the same event , and ~ believe the true Diphthongs and Triphthong of the Greeks were no other but a true expression of the single Vowels they joined together , but in so short a time , as both or all three were expressed in the time that ordinarily one single Vowel was expressed .
Of Consonants .
THe whole number of Consonants are these undermentioned , as nigh as I could Collect , by examining all the Languages I am acquainted with , or have heard expressed , and I think but few , if any , single Consonants have escaped my Notice , all which in this following Table I have ranged in 11 Files , and 6 Ranks .
12345 1B bond D dark J Jest G Game = 2P Pond T tart Ch. Chest .
K came = 3 Mmind N name gn Seignior Fr. ng song = 4= dh this J Jean g gaen l.d. V Valley 5= th thing sh shall ch dach F Folly 6n danse Fr 6789 10 11 =L Lane H hand Y yarn R rand W wand Fr.sign .
Fren .
= Ld : Lowdutch = W. Welch Z Zeal lh W S Seal The First File contains three Consonants , the Second six , the Third and Fourth ten , the Fifth and Sixth four , the seventh two , the remaining four each one , in all twenty nine Consonants .
The second Rank in each File contains Derivatives [ so I shall name them ] in relation to the First Rank , or their Primitives , all alik in kind , so also all the Derivatives in the Third Fourth and Fifth Ranks ; whereby their Sounds will be the better comprehended .
Those places filled by two strokes ( = ) signify that Sounds may be expressed by the same posture of the Mouth with their Primitives , answering in kind to those in the same Rank wherein they stand , but they would be so like in pronunciation to some others in the Table , that the difference would be too nice for common discernment , and also for that I have not observed them used in any Language I have heard expressed by a perfect Mouth , I thought it needless to characterize them .
As those of the Fourth and Fifth Rank in the First File are like those of the Fourth and Fifth Rank in the Fifth File , and those of the First Second and Third Ranks in the Fifth File , are like those of the same Ranks in the First File , so those of the First , Second , Third Ranks in the Sixth File , are like those of the same Ranks in the Second File .
Some of these above-mentioned twenty-nine single Consonants , are vulgarly supposed compounded , as th , ch , sh , gn , ng , &amp;c. But if you consider the Sound of each single Consonant in the Composition apart , and then the Conjunction of them in that order , so as the single Sounds may be clearly discerned in the Composition , you will never make the Sounds required , and if neither by this nor by any other Conjunction the required sound can be made out , it must be a single and no compound Sound .
Whereas these single sounds , vulgarly described as Compounds , ought to have single Characters ; and Secondly , that some of the single Characters have in the same Language a different Sound , as c in the Words , can , mice ; g , in the Words George , Game , &amp;c. and also a different Sound in different Languages , as I Consonant differently expressed in several Languages , as in English , Low Dutch , French Spanish : and Thirdly , that some single sounds are differently characterized in the same Language , as the Sound of s in same and c in mice ; ( the same Sound by two different Characters ; ) so also c in can , and k in kind the same , &amp;c. and the same also in different Languages , as ch in the French Word chose and sh in the Word shall , the same , &amp;c. It will be impossible sible in the use of the present Characters or Alphabets , to add those wanting , and to correct and limit the Sound of others in use ; thereby to constitute a perfect Alphabet , because people so long accustomed , or habituated to such corrupt and differing Expressions of the present Characters , will be always subject on the sight of the old , to give them those Sounds they have been used to , and to spell words according to their old and corrupt Custom , whatsoever Rules shall be set to the contrary ; and therefore there will be a necessity of a whole new Set of Characters , both of Vowels , and Consonants .
Hitherto I have endeavoured to make a Collection of all the single Vowels and Consonants , which are used in any Language ; in which , if I have not collected all those that are , yet in the method I have used therein , I hope I have attained nigher to it , than any other Collection extant .
I have likewise shown the necessity of a new Set of Literal Characters , &amp; such a one is this I here propose ; First the Set of Consonantal Characters , are to be seen in the top of Page ( 137 ) being ranged in the same method and order with those in the foregoing Table .
The first Rank in every file are those I name Radical Characters , the other succeeding Ranks have each a distinct Characteristical Addition to distinguish them from one another , which causes some complication ; but yet I judged it necessary to express the same in the Character , the more regularly to sort them into Classes , and to express the derivation of Letters of the same Organ , the one from the other .
The Set of Vocal Characters is likewise in the same Page with the Consonants ; in writing they are to be placed over the Consonants , which they follow in Expression ; and whereas some Syllables begin with a Vowel , place the 12th Consonantal Character , answering to the Hebrew , Aleph ; and over the same place the Vowel beginning such a Syllable .
This Character may seem somewhat too complicate for dispatch in ordinary Writing , but for Printing it will be the same with that now used , and I only designed it for that purpose , but for the Pen , others more convenient may be invented .
To distinguish the long Vowel from the short , add a prick to the vocal Character .
The 9 .
11 .
12 .
13 .
14th vocal Characters , are ( for want of single storks ) compounded of the first and second .
The Diphthongues truly such ( as I have before noted in the first Part ) may be made by the Conjunction of the Single Vocal Characters in the order as they follow , and will be easily distinguished from the 5 foregoing compounded Characters of the single Vowels , because there will not lightly occur any Diphthongs compounded of the first two Vowels .
The Accent may be a thwart line under the Syllable that is to be accented .
The 4 Marks of pauses ordinarily used , namely , ; : .
may be continued .
The Characters signifying the various Modes of Expression may be these following , and ought to be placed at the beginning and end of every Sentence requiring it .
[ ] Explication . ? ? ? ?
Interrogation .
( ) Parenthesis . ! !
Wonder .
~~ Emphasis .
~~ Irony .
A Second Essay concerning the UNIVERSAL PRIME R. AS the present Alphabets are imperfect , ( as in the foregoing Essay is declared , ) so are also the Primers or first Books , wherein Children and others are taught to Spell and Read , first in not having a perfect Alphabet .
Secondly in not being digested in such a Method as is fit and proper to teach them , as they ought to be taught , for the usual way of teaching to spell , is to dismember every syllable ( of more than one Letter ) into many Syllables , by expressing every Letter apart , and Syllabically , and the Consonants with such a Vowel as they are ordinarily named with , and then requiring them to join all these Syllables into one word , but how preposterous this method is , one instance for all will manifest , suppose the monosyllable Brand be to be spelled , they will teach them thus to dismember it Bee , er , a , en , dee , and then require them to join these into one Syllable , which it is impossible to do , and they must be necessitated as they have begun , to express this one Syllable by five Syllables , which was not designed , whereas they should teach them to express every Syllable entire at first fight , without dismembring it .
And to do this , they must proceed gradually , first beginning with the most simple Syllables , and so by degrees proceeding to the more difficult and Compounded , till they can readily pronounce a whole Syllable at first sight , even the most difficult that are .
To that end , let all the Primers be thus contrived ; at the top of the leaf , let all the Vowels be placed singly in order as they follow in one Rank , and under the same place , Syllables , first , of one Vowel and one Consonant , following it throughout all the Variations ; then of one Consonant and one Vowel following , 2dly , of two Consonants before , and one Vowel following throughout the Variations .
3dly , of one Vowel and three or four .
Consonants sonants following .
And of three Consonants going before , and one Vowel following .
4thly of one , two or three Consonants going before a Vowel , and one two , three , or four Consonants following .
5thly , of some Syllables with Dipththongs or Triphthongs .
For Instance , a. e. i. o. u. &amp;c. ab .
eb .
ib. ob .
ub .
&amp;c. ad .
ed. id. od .
ud .
&amp;c. ba .
be .
bi .
bo .
bu .
&amp;c. ald .
eld .
ild .
old .
uld .
&amp;c. dra .
dre .
dri .
dro .
dru .
&amp;c. balm .
belm .
bilm .
bolm .
bulm .
&amp;c. After this place , a number of words of two , three , or four Syllables , from the more easy to the most difficult expressions , without heed to their Significations .
Further let there follow some words of several Syllables , with the Accent variously placed , as on the first , second , third , &amp;c. Let there be two or three small Discourses writ with this Alphabet , in so many several Languages , with the Accent rightly placed , and truly distinguished by their pauses .
And thus you have a perfect Primer for the Design .
Of teaching with this Primer .
First , begin to teach them the true found of all the Vowels singly , then proceed to the following single Syllables , beginning with the easiest of Expression , and so proceed on gradually to the most difficult , and then to the words of more Syllables , and lastly , to the use of the Accent and Pauses ; when the learner hath past all these , you may exercise him in the reading of the following Discourses , and therein let him exactly observe the Accent and the Pauses , and hitherto it will not be Material , whether the Syllables be significant or not , or whether they understand the small discourses or no , for hitherto we suppose them by this instruction , only capable of Reading or uttering exactly whatsoever is written in this Alphabet and Character , in what Language soever , which is the design of this Primer .
And to gain a greater readiness and habit herein , teach them to write truly what they hear distinctly expressed , according to this Alphabet , proceeding therein gradually as before , and rightly to place the Accent and Pauses , and also the use of the Signs of the different modes of speaking .
In Teaching , Observe these necessary Rules .
1 .
Proceed leisurely and orderly .
Suffer them not to pass by any mispronunciation uncorrected , from the beginning to the end , cause them so oft to repeat a wrong pronunciation , till with your assistance they pronounce it truly , allowing for the natural defects in the Speech of some persons , the younger will learn these pronunciations more easily , but the elder may attain them also , although with more difficulty .
2 .
Suffer them at no hand in spelling , to dismember any Syllable by repeating the Letters singly , but that they pronounce them whole as they find them .
Think not this method tedious , the end will crown and reward the labour , and what the learner hath thus attained and habituated himself to , will remain with him all his life time .
This new Primer will without change except in the Title , be the same for all Nations and Languages .
The following Page gives the Alphabet and Character mentioned in this Discourse , with the Lords Prayer in English , written therein as a Specimen .
137 The Universal Alphabet .
The Table of Consonants 1234567 1~ 2~ 3~ 4~ 5~ 6~ 89 10 11 12 ~ The Table of Vowels 14 13 12 11 10 987654321 ~ ~ The Lords Prayer in English ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

