On the Inconvertibility of Bark into Alburnum .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read February 4 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 103 .
] Mr. Knight having on a former occasion observed the bark of trees to originate from a fluid exuding from both bark and alburnuxm , continues the subject by observations , tending to prove that bark thus formed always remains in the state of bark , and that no part of it is ever converted into alburnum , as various eminent naturalists have maintained .
Equal portions of bark from several branches of an apple and a crab-tree were removed by circular incisions , and transposed from tree to tree in the spring ; and a vital union was secured by bandages , and by a plaster of bees ' wax and turpentine .
When some pieces of bark were removed in the autumn of the same year , a layer of alburnum was found to have been formed beneath them in every instance ; that of the crab-tree having the colour and roughness of the stock on which it was produced , while that of the apple-tree showed none of the sinuosities of the bark of the crabtree which covered it ; neither did the vessels and fibres of the newlygenerated alburnum in any degree correspond with those of the transposed bark .
And it was evi4ent , that in each instance a new layer , both of cortex and of alburnum , was generated .
Mr. Knight 's attention was next directed to the progressive formation of alburnum in the young shoots of an oak coppice ; but he could discover nothing like transmutation of bark into alburnum , although the commencement of alburnous layers in this tree is peculiarly conspicuous , by a circular row of very large tubes .
These tubes he found , at their first formation , passing through a soft gelatinous substance , much less tenacious than the surrounding preexistent bark ; and there was nothing in the bark at all corresponding to the circular row of tubes contained in the alburnum .
The interior surface of the bark is at the same time well defined , and its own peculiar vessels are distinctly visible , and by no means exhibit any appearance of progressive transmutation .
Mr. Knight remarks also , that the qualities of different kinds of wood are not in any degree indicated by the bark which covers them .
He instances the wych-elm and the ash , the woods of which , for agricultural implements , are frequently substituted for each other , although the textures of their barks are extremely dissimilar ; inasmuch as one is brittle , and the other so tough as frequently to be used for ropes .
Another circumstance , very unfavourable to the theory of conversion , is the firm adhesion which subsists between the layers of bark to each other , in comparison to their adhesion to their alburnum .
Two experiments of Du Hamel are , however , cited by Mirbel in .
support of that theory .
In the first , pieces of silver wire , inserted into the bark , were frequently found in the alburnum ; but the evidence is defective , as it was not rightly ascertained that the pieces of wire did not , at their first insertion , pass between the bark and alburnum , and thus be liable to be covered by a new deposition of either one or the other .
In the second experiment , the bud of a peach-tree , with a piece of bark attached to it , was inserted into a plum-stock : a layer of wood was afterwards found beneath the inserted bark , perfectly similar to the peach ; but it is easier to conceive a layer of alburnum , generated by deposition from fluids that have circulated through the inserted bud , than that a part of its bark should be converted into a layer of alburnum more than twice as thick as the inserted bark .
Mr. Knight also remarks , that when the bud is destroyed , the bark deposits no alburnum ; but , being small , it becomes ultimately covered by the successive alburnous layers of the stock , and may be found many years afterwards to have made no progress towards conversion into wood .
Ir

