TAB.11 .
Philosoph. Transact.no.4 B C B BA G C D H HH DEK K F J. ~ Se .
A Bony Substance found in the Womb of a Woman Aged 57Years .
An Account of a large Bony Substance found in the Womb , which was shown to the Royal Society , May the 17th , 1733 , by Edward Body , M. D. F. R. S. ES - , aged 57 , died in St. James 's Market , January , 1725 .
In examining the Pelvis of this Woman , I found a large BonyB b Sub Substance , which was contained in the Womb , and so strictly united to it , that they seemed to be one and the same Body .
Upon cutting the Substance asunder , I observed , that the Ossification went no farther than the Thickness of a Shilling ; the Part immediately under the Ossification is like firm Flesh , and this Flesh grows softer and softer as it draws near to its Center .
I think it not unnecessary , the Bone being found in , and so strictly united to the Womb , to take Notice , that the Woman never had but one Child , of which she was delivered about twenty-seven Years before she died : And it may not be improper to mention the Symptoms that she had long laboured under , and the immediate Cause of her Death .
Her chief Complaints , for some Years , were a short Cough , great Difficulty in Breathing , frequent Uneasiness in making Water , or in going to Stool , and a constant Weight , or Bearing down , upon the Parts of Generation .
The immediate Cause of her Death was , undoubtedly , an Asthma ; for she had only one Lobe of the Lungs left that was perfectly sound ; the rest adhered firmly to the Pleura , were very much contracted , and in some Places scirrhous .
EXPLICATION of the Figure TAB II .
A The Bony-Substance .
B The Substance of the Womb cut open , and turned backwards .
C Small Fibres connecting the Bony Substance with the Womb .
D The right Fallopian Tube lying upon the Membrane , which joins the Tube to the Womb and to the Ovarium .
E The Ovarium .
F The Morsus Diaboli .
G The left Fallopian Tube cut off .
H The Neck of the Womb cut open , as elongated by the Disease .
I The Mouth of the Womb laid open .
K The greatest Part of the Vagina likewise laid open .
This Womb , with the Bone adhering to it , having been kept ten Years in Spirits before it was sent to the Engraver , the Vagina , Fallopian Tube , the Membrane on which the Tube lies , and the Ovarium , must be supposed to be greatly contracted ; but that Part of the Womb distended by the Substance , is indeed very little contracted ; for it was scarce so thick as a Half-Crown Piece when it was first taken out of the Body .

