]\gt ; .
J. J. PHYSICS OF the nple ratio of the velocity instead of the square of the being ihisd t pparently led by the definition of motion generally this baffled in his ttempts to reconcile his theory with observatlon we ma in definition of heat lure , propor- to vis riva , or velocity of the movlng particle , not to the momentum , thought much difficulty deduce , not only the or simple of the velocity , we of elastic fluids , but also the physical propel.ties of gases enumented ibove i objection to NEWTON'S hypothesls .
In the .
of the Society for lS45-1846 , there is a " " On the Physlcs of that consists of perfectly Elastic Molecules in a State of Motion , which con the .
upon which the demonstration of these tters rests The velocity of sound is therein deduced to be equal to the velocity in falling through of a uniform atmosphere .
This .
does ot take account of the size of the molecules .
It assumes that no time lost at the ltpact , and that if the impacts pl.oduce rotatory motion , the vis thus invested bears a constant ratio to the rectilineal vis , so as not to require separate consideration .
It also does not take account of the probable internal motion of composite molecules ; yet the results so closely accord with observation in every part of the subject as to leave no doubt that idea of the physical constitution of gases mates closely to the truth .
M. KRoNIG appears to have entered upon the subject in an independent manner , and arrives at the same result ; M. CLAUSIUS , too , as we learn from his paper " " On the of the blotion we call Heat\ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Mag vol. 14 , 1857 , p. 108 with the above passage and with the general ingenuity and soundness of views , I took the first opportunity of consulting the Archives , and saw at once that the memoir justified the large claims made for it , and that it marks an immense advance in the direction of the now generally received theory .
The omission publish it at the time was a misfortune , which probably retarded the development of the subject by ten or fifteen years .
It is singular that WATERSTON appears to have advanced no claim for subsequent publication , whether in the Transactions of the Society , or through some other channel .
At any time since 1860 reference would naturally have been made to .
MAXWELL , and it ) be doubted that he would have at once recommended that everything possible should be done to atone for the original failure of appreciation .
It is difficult to put oneself in imagination into the position of the reader of 1845 , and one can mderstand that the substance of the memoir should have appeared speculative and that its mathematical style should have failed to attract .
But it is startling to find a referee expressing the opinion that " " the paper is nothing but nonsense , unfit even for reading before the Society her remarks " " that the whole investigation is confessedly founded on a principle entirely hypothetical , from which it is the object to deduce a mathematical representa , tion of the phenomena of elastic media .
It exhibits much skill and many remarkable accordances with the FREE AND CTLY F IN OF TTON general facts , as well as numerical values furnished by tion . . . .
The original principle itself involves an assumption which seems to me very difficult to admit , and by no means a satisfactory basis for a mathematical theory , , that the elasticity of a medium is to be measured by supposing its molecules in vertical motion , and making a succession of impacts against an elastic ting plane These remarks are not here quoted with the idea of upon the judgment of the referee , who was one of the best qualified authorities of the day , and evidently devoted to a most difficult task his careful attention ; but rather with the vicw of throwing light upon the attitude then assumed by men of science in regard to this question , and in order to point a moral .
The history of this paper snggests that highly speculatiye inyestigations , especially by an unknown author , are best brought before the world through some other cha1lnel than ) a scientific society , which turally hesitates to admit into its printed records matter of uncertain value .
Perhaps one may go further and say that a young author ) believes himself capable of great things would usually do well to secure the favourable recognition of the scientific world by work whose scope is limited , and whose value is easily lged , before embarking upon higher One circumstance which may have told unfavourably upon the reception of WATERSTON'S paper is that he mentions no predecessors .
he put forward his investigation as a development of the theory of D. BERNOULLI , a have hesitated to call it nonsense .
It is probable , however , that WATERSTON was unacquainted with BERNOULLI'S work , and doubtful whether at that time he knew that HERAPATH had to some extent foreshadowed similar views .
At the present time the interest of WATERSTON'S paper can , of course , be little more than historical .
What strikes one most is the marvellous courage with which he attacked questions , some of which even now present serious difficulties .
To say that he was not always successful is only to deny his claim to rank among the very foremost theorists of all ages .
The character of the advance to be from this paper will be at once understood when it is realised that VATERSTON was the first to introduce into the theory the conception that heat and temperature are to be measured by vis viva .
This enabled him at a stroke to complete BERNOULLI'S nation of pressure by showing the accordance of the hypothetical medium with the law of DALTON and GAY-LUSSAC .
In the second section the great feature is the statement ( VII .
) , that " " in mixed media the mean square molecular velocity is inversely proportional to the specific weight of the molecules The proof WATERSTON gave is doubtless not satisfactory ; but the same may be said of that advanced by MAXWELL fifteen years later .
The law of AVOCADRO follows at once , as well as that of GRAHAM relative to diffusion .
Since the law of equal .
energies actually published , there can be no hesitation , I think , in attaching name to it .
The attainment of correct results in the third section , dealing with adiabatic expansion , was only prevented by a slip of calculation .
In a few important respects WATERSTON stopped short .
There is no indication , so far I can see , that he recognised any other form of motion , or energy , than ) tory motion , though this is sometimes spoken of as vibratory .
In this matter the priority in a wider view rests with CLAUSIUS .
According to the of specific heats should be ( as for mercury vapour ) in all cases .
Again , aware that the molecular velo city cannot be constant , there is no anticipation of the law of distribution of established by MAXWELL .
A large part of the paper deals with nemistry , and shows that his views upon that subject also were much in advance of those generally held at the time .
The extract from a let , er by rofessor M will put the reader into possession of the main facts of the case : " " It seems a misfortune that the paper was not printed when it was written , for it dows forth many of the ideas of modern chemistry which have been adopted since 1845 , and it have been the means of hastening their reception by chemists .
the masses of equal volumes of gaseous and volatile elements and compounds , and taking the mass of a unit volume of hydrogen as unity , he regards the masses of the same volume of other volatile bodies as representing their molecular weight , and in the case of the elements he employs .
symbols to indicate the molecules .
In he considers that the molecule of hydrogen is combined with half a molecule of oxygen , forming one of steam , and he therefore represents the compound as .
He does not make use of the term " " atom\ldquo ; ( although he speaks of atomic weight on p. 18 , but thinks it divisible ) , and if he had called the smallest propoltion of an element which enters combination an atom , he would probably have been led to believe that the molecules of some of the simple bodies contain two atoms , he might have adopted two volumes to represent the as is done the present time .
The author calls one volume or molecule of chlorine Cl , one volume or molecule of hydrogen , and one volume or molecule.of hydrochloric acid .
If he had regarded the molecules a , s containing two indivisible atoms , these bodies would have been represented , as now , by the formulae , and HC1 respectively , all occupying two volumes .
S15 shows ] near he was to this ion .
GERHARDT in the Fourth Part of his 'Traite de Chimie Organique , ' published in 1856 , points out the uniformity introduced into chemical theory by the adoption of this system .
" " For carbon he makes , as now accepted , although I do not find how he rives at this number .
He seems to have anticipated one of RAMSAY'S recent discoveries , that nitrous anhydride hyponitrous acid , table ) dissociates on .
evaporation into nitric oxide ( binoxide of nitrogen , No. 28 ) and nitric peroxide ( nitrous acid , No. 25 ) .
" " The values for tlJe symbols sulphur , phosphorus , and arsenic taken from the vapour densities ( and which are multiples of what are believed to be the true atomic weights ) , cause some complexity in the formulae of their compounds .
AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
" " There seem to be errors in the formulae of alcohol and ether on p. 49 , for they do not agree with those in the table .
They ought probably to be written 2 and 4 " " Considering how nearly WATERSTON approached what is now believed to be the true theory , it is disappointing to read his controversy with ODLING in 1863 and 1864 ( ' Phil. Mag vols .
26 and ) ) , where he seems to oppose the new formulae then being introduced .
He is very dogmatic about the constitution of hydrate of potash : he very properly insists that we can only obtain a of the ular w of bodies that can be volatilized , and of which the vapour densities can be but he does not see the analogy between the hydrate and oxide of pota , ssium with alcohol and ether , probably because he regards these latter bodies as combinations of water with different quantities of olefiant gas .
He writes water , alcohol , and ether , whilst he considers potassic hydrate , and oxide of potassium , the hydrate having a higher molecular weight than the oxide .
If we regard these compounds as derived from water by the replacement of hydrogen by ethyl potassium respectively , the analogy between the two series is complete ( ethyl was discovered in 1849 and is mentioned by WATERSTON ) .
HO KHO From a remark in the ' Phil. Mag. ' ( vol. 26 , p. 520 ) , I that had arrived at the double atomic weights of many of the metals now adopted , for he gives that of iron as 56 and that of aluminium as 27 calculated from their specific heats , but is an error in his arithmetic , for o divided by the specific heat of iron 1138 gives , and divided by the specific heat of minium .
gives \ldquo ; With the exception of some corrections relating merely to stops and spelling the paper is here reproduced exactly as it stands in the author 's mauuscript.\mdash ; Dec. 1891 .
[ Author 's Introduction .
] OF the physical theories of heat that have claimed attention since the time of BACON , that which ascribes its cause to the intense vibrations of the elementary parts of bodies has received a considerable accession of probability from the recent experiments of FORBES and MELLONJ .
It is admitted that these have been the ns of demonstrating that the mode of its radiation is identical with that of light in the quantities of refraction and polarization .
The evidence that has been accumulated in favour of the undulatory theory of light has thus been made to support with a great portion of its weight a like theory of the phenomena of heat ; and we are , perhaps , justilied in } that the complete development of this theory will have a much more important influence on the progress of science , because of its more obyious connection intimate blending with almost eyery appearance of Nature .
Heat is not only the subject of direct sensation and the vivifier of organic life , but it is manifested as accompaniment of mechanical force .
It is related to it both as cause and effect , and submits itself readily to measurement by means of the mechanical changes that are amoll ' the most proninent indications of its change of intensity .
The undulatory theory at once leads us to the conclusion that , inasmuch as the temperature of a body is a persistent quality due to the motion of its molecules , its internal constitution must admit of it retaining a vast amount of force .
Indeed , it seems to be ahnost impossible now to escape from the inference that heat is essentially molecular vis .
In solids , the nJolecular oscillations may be viewed as being restrained by the intense forces of .
In vapours and gases these seem to be oyercome ; vibrations can no longer be produced by the inherent vis of the molecules ugging with attractive and epellant forces ; the struggle is over and the molecules are free ; but , nevertheless , continue to maintain a certain temperature ; they are capable of heating and being heated ; they are endowed with the quality heat , which , being of itself motion , us to infer that a molecule in motion without any force to restrain or qualify it , is in every respect to be considered as a free projectile .
Allow such free projectiles to be endowed with perfect elasticity , and likewise extend the same property to the elementary parts of all bodies that they strike against , and we immediately introduce the principle of the conservation of viva to regulate the general effects of their fortuitous encounters .
Whether gases do consist of such minute elastic projectiles or not , it seems while to enquire into the physical attributes of media so constituted , and to see what analogy they bear to the elegant and symmetrical laws of aeriform bodies .
Some years ago I made an attempt to do so , proceeding synthetically from this fUmdamental hypothesis , and lately obtained demonstration of one or two points where the proof was then deficient .
The results have appeared so encouraging , although derived from very humble applications of mathematics , that I have been led to hope a popular account of the train of reasoning may not prove unacceptable to the Royal Society.\mdash ; Sept. 1 , 1845 .
SECTION I. \mdash ; OF A HOMOGENEOTTS MEDIITM AND THE LAWS 0F 1TS ELASTICITY .
S 1 .
The term medium is , perhaps , not quite appropriate to what is here intended to be .
We speak of a resisting medium .
of the medium oflight , and in each expresslon something is referred to as intervening between bodies , and it is the quality of interI ) osition that entitles it to the name .
Here , for want of better , it is employed to denote a certain hypothetical condition of matter which it is the object of this Paper to show has physical properties that resemble those that have been AND ECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
found to belong to aeriform bodies .
Inasmuch , therefore , as the word may be applied to a simple unmixed gas so as to speak of it as an oxygen medium or a hydrogen medium , \amp ; c. , so far we may be allowed the use of it in treating of a hypothetical medium , which have carefully to refrain from assimilating to any known form of matter until , by synthetical reasoning , circumstantial eyidence has been accumulated sufficient to prove or render probable its identity .
To have a proper conception of what the medium is that forms the subject of speculation , we must imagine a vast multitude of small particles mattel , perfect]y alike in every respect , perfectly elastic as glass or ivory\mdash ; but of size , form and texture that requires not to be specified further than that they are not liable to change by mutual action\mdash ; to be enclosed by elastic walls or surfaces in a space so much greater than their aggregate bulk to allow them freely to moye amongst each other in every direction .
As all consideration of attractiye forces is left out at present , it is obyious that each particle must proceed on a raight line until it strikes against another , or against the sides of the enclosure ; that it must then be reflected and driven into another line of motion , trayersing backwards and forwards in every direction , so that the intestine condition of the multitude of these that form the medium may be likened to the familiar appearance of a swarm of gnats in a sunbeam .
The quality of perfect elasticity being common to all the particles , the original amount of vis , or living , acting force , of the whole multitude must ever remain the same .
If undisturbed by external action it cannot , of itself , diminish or increase , but must for ever remain as unchanged as the matter that is associated with it and that it endows with activity .
Such is the case if we view the whole mass ) moving particles as one object , but each individual of the multitude must at eyery encounter give or receive , according to the eyer-changing angle and plane of impact , some portion of its force , so that , considered separately , they are for ever continually changing the velocity and direction of their individual motions ; striking against and rebounding from each other , they run rapidly in their zig-zag conflict through eyery possible mode of concurrence , and at each point of the medium we thus conceive that particles are moving in every possible direction and each other in possible during so small cm elapsed of no that it be viewed as in respect to any sensible period .
The medium must in this way become endowed with a permanent state of elastic energy or disposition to expand , uniformly sustained in every part and .
to it the physical character of an elastic fluid .
The simplicity of this hypobhesis facilitates the application of mathematics in ascertaining the nature and properties of such media , and the study acquires much interest from the analogies that it unfolds .
For if the reasoning is corl.ect , the physical laws common to all gases and vapours\mdash ; those laws , namely , that concern heat and pressure\mdash ; do actually belong to such media , and may be synthetically deduced from the constitution which has now been assigned to them .
The characteristic which renders a medium susceptible of mathematical treatment is that of its being composed of particles perfectly alike in every respect , but it is chiefly their identity in weight mass that is the important poin .
of distinction .
particle thus conforms to the definition that the eminent has given to the term molecule , which we may therefore adopt as a ) ificant name for the element of a medium .
The first department of the subject must naturally be devoted to the consideration of circumstances that determine the equilibrium of such a homogeneous medium con sidered by itself Its density , by which is to be understood not its specific gravity but the number of molecules in a stant volume , be supposed to vary without oing its homogeneity .
The mean square velocity of the molecules ( which in any portion of the medium may be umed as uniform ) we also have to consider as a variable quantity , and the physical qualities of a medium being dependent on these two elements of its constitution , it is necessary to determine clearly their mathematical relations . .
It is evident from the definition of the hypothesis , that the medium must exert some expansive force on the surface that encloses it ; but the nature of the force is strictly continuous , it is composed of a multitude of successive strokes .
Nevertheless , their succession is certainly continuous , and it is nob difficult to conceive how they may be sufficient to counterbalance and support a superincumb weight .
To obtain an exact idea of this , let us suppose that a small elastic plane whose weight is times that of a molecule , is supported by a regular succession of sucl ) molecules iking its centre of gravity with a velocity .
We seek to know the condition of their mutual action when an equilibrium is maintained .
The following are the well-known equations that express the law of elastic collision .
They are necessarily the foundation of all reasoning on the effects of the mutual action of elastic bodies by impact .
1 .
The Meeting lmpact .
Two molecules , and , meet directly in an intermediate point and strike each other with the respective velocities and S. The velocities after impact are respectively : ; and ; the direction of 's motion being reckoned positive .
2 .
The Overtaking The two molecules , and , with the same velocities , and S , move in the same direction and overtakes ; the velocities after impact are respectively:\mdash ; ; and ; the direction cf 's motion being reckoned positive .
*[ttention shonld be directed to this use of the word density .
] FREE AND RFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
In the first of these let , Sv , ; then shall ; which evidently expresses the upward velocity given to the plane by the impulse of one molecule when the velocity of incidence and reflexion is the same .
The ascends and descends the height due to this velocity , and then encounters the next in the succession of molecular impacts without any transference of force taking place between them ; and being taken an indefinitely great number , is infinitesimal in respect to , and the height through which the plane traverses is also infinitesimal , so that is supported as if by a continuous force of upward pressure .
The time between each impact is , according to the law of falling bodies , equal to the time taken by the force of gravity to destroy and reproduce the infinitesimal velocity .
This is : the velocity which a free body gains or loses in it unit of time by the force of ravity being represented by .
The number of impacts in a unit of time is tlterefore .
This , then , is the relation between the weight of the plane , in terms of that of the molecule unity , and the rapidity of the succession of impacts necessary to support it in a condition of statical equilibrium .
Now , if the plane fornoe part of the surface that encloses the medium and that counterbalances by its weight the effect of the impacts of the confined molecules , such effect must correspond with the succession represented by ; and we deduce that the force of , as represented by the weight or pressure require to confine it , ?
directly proportio to he number of impacts that take place against unit in nnit time with constant velocity constant ) . . . . .
I. S 3 .
Such being the nature of the elastic force , it will not be difficult to prove that it increases exactly as the density of the medium .
The proposition stands thus : if the number of molecules in a volume of the medium be doubled , the number of impacts that take place on a constant surface in a constant time will also be doubled , the velocity being un changed .
Suppose the number octupled , the mean distance is reduced to .
If they were equidistant and moving in one direction with the constant velocity , it is evident that eight times the previous number would pass the same imaginary plane in the same time , and if the plane were solid that eight times the previous number would impinge against it .
Now , although all do not move in one direction , yet in both cases the same proportion of the whole must in each case do so .
be the density no preference can be assigned to one direction more than to another in the molecular movements ; they must in every case be equally distributed in every case is where the particle ( mass 1 ) and the plane ( mass n ) both reversc their vclocitics at impact .
The conservation of vis is thereby secured , and the condition of momentum gives ) .
\mdash ; R. MR. J. .f , RSTON ON THE PHYSICS OF MEDIA COMPOSED OF direction , if the number is ased eight times in any one direction it must be so in every other .
This be viewed in another light .
Suppose in both cases , the density being 1 and 8 respectively , that the molecules are arrested in their motion .
It is evident that opposite a un it of surface in density 8 there will , in the first row , be four times as many molecules as in density 1 , and that the average distance between the rows is only one-half .
Suppose the molecules f , o resume their motion , and compare density 8 with density 1 , it is obvious that in half the time four times the number will impinge on the unit of surface , and in the same time eight times the number .
Now it has been shown that the elastic force is proportional to the number of molecular impacts made with a tant velocity against a unit of surface in a umit of time , hence we deduce that the force ( e ) of a medium with constant mean is proportional to its density constant ) .
II .
S4 .
Hitherto the molecular velocity has been supposed constant .
We have now to enquire how the elasticity of the medium is affected by a change in the velocity from to my .
The intestine action of the medium may be viewed as the traversing of a certain mean distance , , by the molecules in a given time , ; and in this time a certain mean number , , of impacts take place against a unit of surface .
If the velocity is increased times , the distance is traversed in the time , or , and in this reduced time the same number of impacts must take place as before took place in the time ; for there is nothing in the change of velocity simply that can alter the ratio that subsists between the mean distance traversed and the mean number of impacts , unless that ratio were subject to change without any change whatever in the medium , which is absurd ; hence , in the original time , , there is times the original number of impacts , A. .
It was shown in that if the weight of each of the molecules were represented by their meam velocity by , and weight of plane supported by their impinging action , the number of impacts in a second or unit of time required to support the plane is , or , and this equation must evidently be maintained in altering the value of the terms .
Now , it has been shown that in changing to ) in a medium that does not alter its density we cause A to become , and becomes Hence , the weight of the plane , or measure of tension , must be increased ) times so that it may continue to equilibrate the impinging action .
Thus , we deduce that while the molecular velocity increases from to the elasticity increases from to or sticity of medium a constant density is proportional to mean molecular velocity or vis viva of the medium when constant ) ' . . . . . . .
III .
*[ .
and II1 .
were given by D. .
Sce ' POGG .
Ann vol. 107 , p. 490 , 1859 .
] FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STAT OF MOTION .
S 5 .
Combining II .
with III .
it appears that when both the density an .
the vis are subject to change that the elasticity is equal to their product , or ) , and this is the law that includes all the conditions of equilibrium .
an enclosed homogeneous medium .
One other condition only remains to be specified .
constant pressure the is inversdy the vis viva or velocity constant ) IV .
S 6 .
In concluding this part of the subject , we cannot fail of being sensible of the analogies that subsist between these synthetical deductions and the chief properties that distinguish aeriform fluids .
The first point that was inductively established is MARIOTTE'S law , .
: at same temperature the density of air is as its compression .
This is analogous to the second deduction : square of the velocity being constant , the elastic force of a medium is proportional to its density .
The accordance appears as complete as could be desired , and there is a residual evidence in favour of being identical with temperature , or being a quality that varies simultaneous]y with it .
The second point DALTON and GAY-LUSSAC'S law of expansion .
By experimenting upon the same weight of air at different temperatures under a constant pressure , these philosophers found that an increment of one degree caused always t'ne same augmentation of bulk , and that this amounted to part of the space it occupied at .
Thus , if the same law hold good at all temperatures , 480 cubic inches of air at this temperature should diminish one inch in bulk for every degree it was lowered in temperature , and would become zero in bulk at below the freezing point of water , or on Fahrenheit scale .
Now in IV .
we had , or , when is constant ; but is the volume occupied by a constant number of molecules ; hence with the same constant number of molecules the volume is as the mean square molecular velocity , and a constant increment of vis is followed by the same increment of volume under a constant pressure , and as the constant increment of volume ( 1 cubic inch ) is to the constant increment of vis so is the volume ( 480 cubic inches ) corresponding certain vis ( Fahr. ) to that vis ) .
The analogy therefore still holds good , and the evidence continues in favour of absolute temperature being represented by When air is not allowed to expand and heat is applied , the elastic force increases with the temperature , and a rise of 1o causes an absolute increase in the elasticity , which is the same at all temperatures , and corresponds with the increase of bulk it would assume if allowed freely to expand .
This is analogous to III .
, where .
the density being constant or bulk unchanged , the elasticity is shown to be p.p.tional to the mean square molecular velocity .
Thus , the laws of MARIOTTE and of DALTON and GAY-LUSSA represented by the ; in which temperature , Fahrenheit scale ; density , elasticity .
The of elasticity in the hypothetical medium is represented by the formula ; in which .
is the mean square molecular velocity ; density , and elasticity .
first ) csses physical laws been found to belong to a certain existent form of matter .
The second expresses physical laws that have been to belong to a certain form mattel The of the eflect represented by in the first is unknown , but at various times , by eminent authorities , been referred to molecular notion .
The corresponding of the second represents motion .
SECTION II THE FHYSICAL IONS OF MEDIA THAT DIFFER FROM EACH OTHER IN THE SPECIFIC WEIGHT OF THEIR MOLECULES . .
The synthetical deductions of last section apply to a homogeneous medium without respect to the absolute weight of its molecules , if the weight of each molecule is the same .
This weight , common to all , may be viewed as the specific olecular weight of medium , and distinguishes it from any other medium with a different specific molecular weight .
We have now to enquire into the relations that subsist between the density and molecular velocity of two such media that have the same sticity , or that are in equilibrium of pressure and also of vis We deduced from the law of impinging elastic bodies that if represents the mean molecular velocity in feet per second , A the number of molecu ] impacts in a second upon a small elastic plane which is equal in weight to molecules , then Let epresent the specific weight of the molecules , we have the elastic force exerted by the medium on a unit of surface ; and as this must in the present enquiry be assumed constant , we may easily remark how a change in affects A. It is evident that since is a constant quantity and , and variable , we have A ; but , and , therefore , , or , and A Hence it is obvious that if , the density or number of molecules in a constant volume , as well as , the tension , are constant , while the molecular is bsolutc of the clastic plane that is supported by the succession of A number of molecular impacts por sccolld , weight of of which is , and their common impinging velocity feet per second .
FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
velocity and specific weight are variable , these variables are bound by the relation expressed by , which signifies that if two media are in equilibrium of pressure have in the same volume of each the same number of molecules , the squares of their molecular velocities must be inversely as their specific molecular weights .
Hence , we deduce that if number of separate equal density and tension , the molecular velocity of each must be proportional to the inverse square root of their speci.motecular weight , or to the inverse square root of the specific of the respectivel . . . . . .
V. 68 .
But media may be in equilibrium of pressure without being of equal density , for a deficiency of density may be compensated by an excess in the molecular It is plain that if and are constant in any two media they may still be in equilibrium of pressure if is proportional to , or if the molecular weight of each medium is inversely as its density .
If the specific molecular weights are in a constant ratio to each other and the tension and velocity also constant , the media must be kept in equilibrium of pressure if the density of each is reciprocally proportional to the specific molecular weight of the other .
We have supposed hitherto that the media are separate while their respective elasticities are compared .
Let us now enquire into the effects of allowing them to have access to each other .
The united media immediately obtain a heterogeneous character , for it requires no demonstration to convince us that the molecules of each will permeate through the volume occupied by the other , the vacuities in the space occupied by each presenting no more obstacle to the motion of one set of molecules than it does to the other ; and as collision must take place amongst them in every possible manner and direction , the common space of the united media are free alike to each individual moIecule of both to range through in its zig-zag course .
Consequent]y , contact with other become equally through their common volume . . . . .
VI .
The internal condition of the mixture must after a time become settled so that in any infinitesimal portion the same mean velocity will be found propel to the molecules of each medium respectively .
But as each of the two sets of molecules , although completely mixed together , preserve their specific weights , so must they have corresponding specific velocities that intact , notwithstanding that they as often impinge on molecules of the other set as on the molecules of their own kind .
It is of consequence to settle what the ratio of these specific velocities is , for upon this point depends the nature of the vis equilibrium of different media , and we have to determine the relative condition of two media when they are in equilibrium both of pressure and of vis * [ The deduction of V. appears to be correct , though much embarrassed by the relevant .
In his memoir on the Theory of Gases ( ' POGG .
Ann vol. 100 , 1857 ) , CLAUSIUS arrives at the same clusion .
His assumption that the density ( in WATERSTON'S sense ) of various gases is the same , to have been made upon chemical grounds .
S 9 .
We must now refer back to equations of impact ( S 2 ) It is apparent that the sum of the impinging vis of both molecules does not alter in either the meeting or overtaking impact ; what is gained by one is lost by the other , or .
But in every case except one a transference of vis must take place from the o1le to the other .
The exception is found in the meeting impact when and S ; then shall and , but at the same time is not equal to , or to S ; every other case is not equal to nor to , nor is equal to S or to It can seldom happen that the molecules strike each other directly .
taking account of the collective result of their fortuitous concourse we must view the posltlon of the plane of concurrence and the respective inclinations of the line of motion of each molecule to it as three independent variables .
The incident veloc , ity of each is the absolute velocity resolved perpendicular to the plane , and the equations apply to this portion only of the vis of the molecules .
Although the variety in the mode of impact is infinite , it is certain that one direction of motion is as likely as any other , and hence , that the opposite of any direction is equally probable to the direction itself Let us confine our attention to any single case of impact and suppose that the directions of the motions of the two impinging molecules lie on one side of the plane of concurrence , then it appears that the nature of the impact be overtaking .
Again , let us suppose that they lie similarly disposed on the other side of the plane ; the nature of the impact is again overtaking .
Now , instead of having the opposite of both the original lines of motion , suppose the opposite of one ] is taken ; it is clear that the nature of the impact is in this case of the meeting kind ; and the opposite of the other line of motion being taken while the first is in its original position , the impact is again of the meeting kind .
Each of these four cases are equally probable , and the resolved velocities , or the values of and S , are the same in all , but two are meeting impacts and two are overtaking , each couple having perfectly distinct numerical equations to define the relation between the incident and reflected vis viva .
We are thus obliged to infer that the intestine action of the medium must be viewed in this manner as divided into two kinds of impacts specifically distinct in the numerical relation that subsists between the velocity before and after concurrence , and when employing the equations for summing up the results of the whole indefinitely great multitude that take in mixed media , the effect of any one meeting impact must be considered along with its counterpart overtaking impact with the same .
We have remarked that it is only the resolved portion of the whole vis viva of a molecule that is dealt with by the \mdash ; that forms the force of impact\mdash ; and it may be ques ioned whether the mearl of these forces in each kind of molecules bears the same to each uthel as the whole vis of each .
That the ratio FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A OF MOTION .
is the same is best seen reductio bsurdum method of reasoning .
If the ratio is different , the motions of the heavier molecules must be resolved in a different way from those of the liglJter , or the plane of concurrence must incline to one set of molecules in a different manner to that of the other set .
Now any such effect is quite inconsistent with the fundamental hypothesis , and would require us to admit the fluence of a modifying power whose nature and mode of about the effect in question is mknown .
The ratio of the resolved to the absolute vis viva is actually one-third , and become obvious in the next section , but it seems needless to require the demonstration in this place as all that we have to be assured of is the constancy of the ratio , whatever its actual value may be .
In seeking to demonstrate the nature of the vis viva equilibrium , the solitary condition that we have to reason from is that the mean value of is equal to ( S2 ) and the mean value of That this is a necessary condition is obvious , because if either were less there would be a continual transfer from the molecules to the molecules , or from to and vice By squaring equations in S 2 and adding , we have the following:\mdash ; If in any case it happens that , we shall have , or , and .
Hence , if the squares of the impinging velocities happen to be in the inverse ratio of the molecular weights , then in either molecu ] the sum of the vis viva of the twofold encounter ( one meeting , the other overtaking with the same impinging velocities ) before impact , or , is equal to the sum after impact , or to But this is only one case out of an infinite number where the ratio is different .
Generally , we may express the equation thus : , and Now , suppose that in an indefinitely great multitude of impacts the sum of all the individual values of and are taken , we have the mean of the values of the first equal to , in accordance with the necessary condition of permanence noticed above ( by we mean to denote the mean molecular vis viva or mean square velocity of the molecules , \amp ; c. ) .
The mean value of is , there , but the mean value of is also evidently equal to , as above ; hence , the mean value of is , or the positive values of balance the ative values .
In the same way , it may be shown that the mean of the values of is also .
Hence , we deduce , or S or that in mixed media the molecular locity is inrcrsely proportional to the specific weight of the VII Thio is the law of the equilibrium of vis .
Thus , it appeal .
S that the inverse ratio of the specific molecular weight is that which is naturally assumed by the mean square molecular velocity of media in contact , and according to the foregoing reasoning ( S 10 ) , this is also the ratio that ensures an equilibrium of between media of the same density , or which have the same nunlber of molecules contained in the same volume .
Thus , by combining V. with VII .
we deduce that in equilibrium of pressure and vis viva are of density , or have specific respectively proportional to their specific leculcxr ?
eights . . . . . . . . . . . . .
VIII .
S12 .
We may likewise remark that as the mean value of the product is equal to the mean , or , there is the same of vis viva or force in equal volumes of all are in of pressure and vis viva . . . . . . . . . .
IX .
S13 .
If different media are placed in contact they must diffuse themselves through their common volume with velocities proportional to their mean velocity ; but this velocity being in each invel.sely as the square root of its specific molecular weight , which is equal to the square root of its specific gravity , we may deduce , by combining VI .
with VII .
, that media in ilibrium of pressure and vis viva diffuse themselres through their common volume with velocities inversely proportional to the root of their specific gravity . . .
X. S 14 .
Such are the principal points by which different media are related to each other .
Their analogies to the properties of gases may be stated as follows : ( 1 .
) The specific of gases of the same and pressure are respectively proportional to their atomic weight .
[ The combining equivalents or proportions may be viewed as simple multiples or divisors of the atomic weight or specific gravity .
] This is analogous to the VJII .
deduction .
Media in equilibrium of vis and pressure have specific gravitles proportional to their molecular weight .
It will be remarked that here we have temperature represented by vis ( 2 .
) It is considered as proved that gases in equilibrium of pressure and temperature have , in equal voiumes , the same absolute qnantit , of heat .
This is the first statement of a very important theorem .
( See also 'Brit .
Assoc. Rep 1851 ) .
The demonstration , however , of S 10 can hardly be defended .
It bears some resemblance to an argument indicated and exposed by Professor TAIT ( ' Edinburgh Trans vol. 33 , p. 79 , 1886 ) .
There is reason to think that this law is intimately connected with the Maxwellian distribution of velocities , of which had no edge .
] FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
We have deduced , in reference to media , that when they are in equilibrium of pressure and vis viva they have , in equal volumes , the same amount of vis ( 3 .
) It is considered probable that the quantity of heat contained in equal volumes of all gases in equilibrium of pressure and temperature is proportional to their absolute temperature ; and , in general , that equal increments of heat cause equal increments of temperature or expansion .
In all media in equilibrium of pressure and vis the same increment of causes the same expansive effect .
( See also S6 .
) ( 4 .
) Gases , however different in specific gravity , when placed in connection diffuse themselves equally through each other ; and according to the elegant induction of Dr. GRAHAM ( ' Edin .
Trans 1831 ) the velocit .
of diffusion is inversely as the square root of their specific gravity .
This is very exactly responded to by the hypothesis .
DALTON'S law of diffusion belongs to media as a necessary and the most obvious consequence of the constitution assigned to them ( VI .
) DR. GRAHAM'S law of diffusive velocity or volume applies also to media , because if placed in similar circumstances such an effect must depend on the molecular velocity , which , singularly enough , bears exactly the like ratio to their specific gravity ( X. ) .
S 15 .
In the first point of analogy it was stated the atomic weight of a gas corresponded with ifs specific gravity , but with the reservation that the combining proportions are simple multiples or quotients of the same .
This appears to me to be the fair statement of the remarkable connection that is always found between the combining volume and combining weight .
It seems that the fact of a volume of every gas containing the same number of ] ecules can ever be inductively established , but all analogy leads us to this conclusion .
One volume of oxygen combines with two volumes of hydrogen to form two volumes of aqueous vapour .
If we inferred from that one molecule of oxygen combined with two molecules of hydrogen to form one of steam , we must admit that the molecule of steam occupies double the volume of a molecule of hydrogen or oxygen .
If it is admitted , on the other hand , that the oxygen molecule is capable of disintegration , and that half a molecule combines with one of hydrogen to form one of steam , the bulk of the three molecules are equal .
This last is the view that is responded to by the hypothetical media .
The objection to it is plausible from the natural repugnance to the idea of dividing what has been considered as an ultimate element into parts , and of supposing it possible that an element should have a strong affinity to itself\mdash ; for this point is also involved .
Half molecules of oxygen must have a powerful attraction to each other as they never appear separate .
It is the same with all the other simple gases and vapours that combine in half or other fractional volumes .
We have an analogous example among the hydrocarburets .
Methyl is half a molecule of olefiant gas , and enters into distinct combinations similar in every respect to those of olefiant gas , but it never appears in a separate form .
Olefiant gas enters colnbination with itself in arious proportions , forming etherine , ceten , elaen , \amp ; c. , all of which are isomeric but different specific gravities as vapours .
These the chemist un ble to form directly ; they organic products and show a great molecular capability that undoubtedly common to all bodies .
There has certainly as yet been no recognised example of a simple element appearing in the gaseous form with two specific grayities , but it would be rash to affirm that such was either impossible or absurd .
Indeed , chlorine , bromine , iodine , and fluorlne are so similar in their chemical qualities that it is not very unlikely they may be examples of isomeric combinations of one base in which condensation of atomic volume takes place simultaneously with increment of atomic mass .
In the hydrocarburets , on the other hand , there is little , if any , condensation of atomic volume , their specific gravity in the liquid form being all nearly the same .
A strong argument in favour of the physical origin of the law of volumes is to be from the of acids with ether .
Some of these rise up into vapour in the same state of chemical union as when liquid , while others quite similar decomposed in the act of iuld occupy double the volume of the others .
Even those that are fully combined when they first rise , by an increase of temperature not very considerable , are decomposed and immediately assume a double volume .
Oxalic and nitrous ethers are examples of the last kind .
Sulphate and nitrate of pyroxili ether are examples of disunion in the act of rising .
If the hypothetical law of is true in all cases , we should have to distinguish between atomic weight and combining proportion .
Thus , if the atomic weight of oxygen is 1 ( or specific gravity of gas ) , its combining proportions are , 1 , , 2 , , 3 , ? .
If the atomic weight of hydrogen is 1 , its ascertained combining proportions are , 1 , , 2 , 3 , 4 , , 6 , 8 , 9 , 16 .
If the atomic weight of nitrogen is 1 , its combining proportions are and 1 .
The same for chlorine is , 1 , , 2 , ; for bromine they are , 1 , ; for iodine , , 1 , ; for arsenic , , 1 ; for sulphur , ; for phosphorus , , \amp ; c. These are necessarily derived from the specific gravity of the simple gases and of their compounds .
The labours of DUMAS , MITSCHERLICH , REGNAULT , and BINEAU , have exten ded the list of gases and vapours , whose specific gravities have been accurately measured , to nearly 150 .
Snch determinations throw a light upon the atomic constitution of compounds which it is impossible to obtain from their mere chemical analysis , and form an important guide to theoretical discussion , when the arithmetic of volumes is properly applied .
SECTION III.\mdash ; ON THE THAT ATTEND THE CONDENSING AND DILATING OF MEDIA , THE MECHANIOAL VALUE OF THEIR MOLECULAR VIS VIVA . .
In the first section a distinct idea of the elastic force of the medium was obtained by vlewing it as a rapid succession of impacts on the lower of a FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
19 gravitating elastic plane ; and the equilibrium as being maintained when tlJe upward velocity given to the plane by the shock of one molecule was equal to the downward velocity given to it by gravity acting through half infinitesimal portion of time that elapses between two successive .
During the first half of this time gravity acts in destroying the upward velocity : during the second half it acts and generates the same velocity downwards , and by applying the equation for the meeting impact ( S 2 ) we found the relation between the pressure and the number of impacts in a given time .
This relation is expressed by , in which is the number of molecules whose aggregate weight is the weight of the plane supported by A number of molecular impacts in a second of time : the impinging velocity being , and the accelerating force of gravity .
It was also shown that the upward given to the plane by one impact is , and this is likewise the descending velocity with which it encounters the molecular shock .
We have now to examine the case where the encounter takes place with the plane at rest .
Applying the equation for the meeting impact as in S 2 , and putting ; we have velocity upwards of the plane after the shock ; velocity downwards of the molecules after the shock .
Thus , being an indefinitely great number , we have the ascending velocity of the plane , being double what it was in the former case when the result of the impacts was statical equilibrium : and the decrement of molecular velocity , which is a new and important 'feature .
In the former case there was no decrement of molecular velocity : the molecule and plane continually meeting and retreating with velocity of impact and reflexion the same , and inversely proportional to their respective weight .
With its velocity the grayitating plane ascends to the height , so that the weight of molecules is raised through this height by the decrement ) of the impinging velocity of one molecule .
Employing the differential notation , is easy to see that in the case supposed , when is , so that the velocity of tho is ; but in the next step there is an ullfortunate error runs through many of the subsequent deductions .
, not .
The vis viva expended in raising to the height is thus , not .\mdash ; R. ; and 2 ) , the vis expended in raising to the height .
If we recur to S4 we may remark the sity of considering molecular velocity in two points of view when applying the arguments of and 16 to an enclosed of a medium .
The first point is that upon the molecular velocity of impact depends the intensity of the shock on the plane , the ascending velocity given to it , therefore also the time between the impacts , if the weight of the plane is considered constant .
Thus as any one velocity is to the time of ascent and descent of the plane caused by that velocity , so is the mean of the impinging velocities to the mean of the time intervals , or inversely as the number of impacts a unit of time ; and the equilibrium does not require that the succession of impacts should be regular ; the rapidity of the succession may fluctuate , but the average time and velocity must be constant .
The second point is that any augmentation of velocity causes an increase in the frequency of the encounters .
In the equation if A were not a function of it would remain unchanged , if and increased or diminished in the same proportion ; but it was shown in S4 that it was proportional to , when , the density , is constant , and to or or when is constant ; hence , in which is a constant factor that has to be determined .
We have also to determine the ratio between , the mean square impinging velocity , and , the mean square absolute molecular velocity , in the equation , or Suppose the unit of volume in which the medium is confined to be a cube , the upper side of which is the plane , and let be the mean square velocity of the molecules , so that if the squares of the respective velocities of all the molecules be added together , the sum will at all times be equal to .
Resolve the motion of each molecule at any instant into the six rectangular directions parallel to the side of the cube and add up the squares of the resolved velocities that are perpendicular to one side ; it is evident that the sum must be , as the force is equally distributed in every direction , and in the stratum of the medium next the plane one-sixth of the force of the molecules that happen to be in the stratum at any instant is directed perpendicularly upon the plane .
Suppose the breadth of the stratum is , the number of molecules that at all times are to be found moving in it is , and half of these are diminisl ) their distance from plane , and half increasing their distance with the mean square velocity The molecules moving equally in every dilection must necessarily impinge equally in every possible direction on the plane , so that if their lines of motion were brought from every point of the surface of the plane where they impinge and made to issue from one central point , they would radiate equally to every part of the hemisphere ; and as soon as those belonging to any one direction have impinged and thus withdrawn from forming part of the constant aggregate force , their place is FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
21 immediately supplied by others of the same entering the stratum .
The time taken by the set whose velocity is and ation to the plane to traverse the breadth of the stratum is evidently as sin ' and in a unit of time the numb ] of the impacts in the succession of these belonging to the set is proportional to .
But this is the value of the resolved velocity of the set .
Referring back to the reasoning 2 , 16 , the supporting effect of each impact on the heavy plane was slJown to be proportional also to the velocity of impact or molecular velocity resolved perpendicular to the plane .
The supporting effect of each set in a unit of time is therefore as the square of the resolved or impinging velocity of the set .
But the mean of all the square impinging velocities is , and half the molecules in the , stratum are continually approaching the plane ; the supporting effect of their continuous action is therefore the same as would be derived from the medium reduced to half density advancing against the plane with the uniform velocity Now as represents the nber of molecules in the cubical unit of volume , the side of the cube being the unit of length , and the number of such units traversed in a unit of time , the supporting effect of the medium on the heavy plane in the unit of time , is the same as that derived from molecules ) inging with the velocity Hence it is obvious that , and , or , and 3 .
Also or ; or Thus we obtain an expression for the square root of the mean square ' velocity in terms of the height of a uniform atmosphere , or what is the same , in terms of the ratio of the number of molecules in a column of the medium of the height of a uniform atmosphere to the number in the column of a unit height : and since expresses the velocity acquired by a body in falling through the height , we arrive at the following deduction .
The mean square molecular velocity of medium is equal to the of the velocity that body acquires in through one-and-half times the height of uniform atmosphere ; if the pressure of the medium is estimated from the effects of the molecular impacts on a perfectly rigid and elastic surface .
If it were estimated by the effect on molecular elastic surfaces , there is reason to believe that the mean square velocity is double the amount specified ( see Sec. 4 ) . . . . . .
XI .
* S 18 .
Suppose that the cubical volume of the medium receives such an increment of vis that under the constant pressure the volume from 1 becomes ; it has been shown in S5 that the molecular vis viva must also from 1 have becor1ae * [ The author here arrives at the correct couclusion , that it may sustain the pressure with the reduced density .
But the molecular ) in the cubical volume .
: hence we ve the proportion ; the increment of vis viva in the contained medium is thus .
But it has been shown in S 17 that , and , hence Now in S 16 it was that to raise the weight of molecules to the height the vis ) expended was ) ; comparing this , the vis ?
) expended in the act of increasing the volume , with , the increment of vis required to su pport the increased volume , it is evident that the ratio is exactly one-third .
Thus we deduce that to one increrne of expansion in the volume of a bsisting uconstant pressure , four-thirds of an increment of vis are cquired : one of which thirds is expended in the does appear in the medium : the three-thirds , o ) one increment , appears in the medimn and assists in sust its ugmented v . . . . . . . . .
XII . .
This result is necessary consequence of the perfect conservation of in the impinging action of perfectly elastic bodies .
To enlarge a volume that is pressed upon is to raise a weight ; is to expend mechanical force ; is to expend molecular vis , and the last train of reasoning has led us to the relation between the molecular force expended and the work performed by it .
The mechanical value of the whole of the vis viva of the medium may be ascertained by the following proportion : : : .
: .
But , therefore Thus the vtva expended in raising , or the constant pressure , through the increment of the unit of volume , is to that increment as the whole vis of the medium is to three units of volume .
Hence we deduce that if a medium is supposed to expand to four times its original volume with its original tension undiminished , it will in doing so expend as much as the whole of its original molecular force .
This may .
more concisely expressed by : The vis of is equal to its acting three times its . . . . . . . . .
XIII .
* [ The ecbed version of XII .
will be " " To effeot one incl.ement of expansion in the volume of a mcdium subsisting under a constant pressure , five-thirds of an incl.ement of vis viva are required ; of which thirds is expended in the act , and does not appear in medium ; the remaining three-thirds , or one ernenh , ppears the medium , and assists in sustaining its volume.\ldquo ; \mdash ; R. ] This is applicable ulldel .
the ) ] FREE AND PLRFECTLY IN A STAT .
23 S20 .
If a medium is not allowed to increase in volume while its vis is increasing , no force will of course be expended , and each increment of vis engenders a like increment of tension .
Thus if we compare the amount of vis ) required to produce cm increment of molecular vis in the , in the two cases of constant pressure constcmt volume ; it is manifest that the ratio to 3 , or . . . . . . . .
If we suppose the heavy plane instead of being raised by the medium to descend upon it through the same differential height , it is obvious that the same differential vis ) that was formerly abstracted is now communicated to the molecules of the unit volume .
Force is exerted by the descending weight upon the medium and is transferred to its molecules .
Thus it is evident that the conversion of mechanical force into molecular vis is subject to the same law as the conversion of molecular vis ) into mechanical force .
This law is expressed in XII .
and XIV .
The is another form of annunciation which refers to an experimental method of ascertaining it if such media were actual existents .
The ratio of the increment of vis evolved by a condensation of medium to the diminution of molecular vis viva / } equired to maintain the same condensation under a pressure is . . . . . .
XV .
S22 .
If a medium is compressed or dilated and the molecular vis evolved in it or given out from it by the act of condensation and dilatation be retained , let us enquire into the ratio of the density to the pressure .
The preceding reasoning has shown that the increment or decrement of vis is equal to one-third of the increment or decrement of density , or ; hence ' which being integrated gives .
But , therefore , and Thus we deduce that if medium is compressed or dilated a given condition of density , the rnolecutar velocity tloe fourth root of the tension or , cube root of the densityS . . . . .
XVI .
S 23 .
The tendency of media to have their vis viva augmented when being forced into smaller volume is very similar to the rise of temperature that appears in when condensed .
Thus tinder may be inflamed by the sudden compression of a small quantity of air , and on charging an aix gun the condenser and force pump become so hot as to be painful to touch .
Again , mercury may be frozen if exposed to a jet of air escaping from a state of high compression and expanding the *[ ratio of specific heats , commonly called , shouJd be 5 : 3 , not 4 : ] Note ( motion indestructible as matter ) .
[ This result also reqnires correction.\mdash ; R. ] S Note [ The corrected argument is:\mdash ; Since , we get , or .
Accordingly .
But ; therefore , , and .
Also , where .\mdash ; R. 24 MR. J. 1 .
wATERSTON ON THE PHYSICS OF DIA OF ressnre .
Media also lose if allowed to expand against pressure .
Thus , if at Fahr. a vessel air of allowed to empty itself into the atmosphere , the decrement of temperature the that remains ougt to be by the XVI .
deduction .
If on the contrary density increased from 1 to2 , its temperature ought to rise to196o Thus the analogy between media and gases and veen vis vlva and temperature is still maintained , and the phenomena of latent heat in gases appear also in media as the transference of force during a change of volume : out of the medium when it expands , and exerts , or gives out , mechanical force ; into the medium when it compressed and acted upon , or receives ] The phenomena ( flatent heat appear to be the conversio of mechanical force into molecular vis viva ; the visible into the invisible , as in condensation : and molecular vis into mechanical force ; the invisible into the visible , as in expansion .
It is a necessary consequence of the conservation of vis viva or indestructibity of force among perfectly elastic bodies .
S 24 .
Several experiments have been made on the of the increment of temperature evolved by a small condensation of a volume of air to the diminution of temperature required to produce the same condensation under a constant pressure , and found to be .
Mr. IVORY( ' Phil. Mag 1827 ) has proved that this ratio is constant under every change of temperature or density so long as DALTON and GAY-LUSSAC'S is tained , or the air thermometer is an exact measure of heat .
MM .
GAY- LUSSAC and WELTER have also proved this for a considerable range .
Mr. IVORY has also expressed his opinion that the nascent value of this ratio will be found to be , and that the cause is probably connected with the proportion that subsists between the linear and the solid increments of expansion .
The value of this ratio in all media , whatever may be their condition of density or vis ; and the syntheticaI nonstration rests on the same fundamental principle that determines the proportion of linear to solid increments of expansion .
This ratio applies only to infinitesimal changes of volume , and it increases with the amount of condensation .
When the medium compressed from 1 to the ratio becomes In the experiments of MM .
-LUSSAC and WELTER referred to in the Me .
canique eleste , ' the condensation did not exceed part of an atmosphere .
The discrepancy may be exactly ascertained by performing the same experiments as it were on the medium by computation .
The absolute temperature is denoted by * Note ( temperature of condensod air ) .
Note ( to find the compression that correSponds with a given ratio between latent and nsible heat .
) FREE AND PERFECTLY LASTIC MOLECULLS IN A STAT 5 and the absolute zero colresponds to of Fahr. scale ( taking ) constant of expansion , see ) .
By employing the equation ) , it is easy , by substituting the barometric height for , to compute the result of given experiment as if it had been performed on the hypothetical medium .
This I have done in the case of MM .
nd ' experiments .
to the account given of them in the ' canique Celeste , ' the minus interior pressure of the medium would have been millims. ; the mean is given as , the difference being only about part 01 an inch of mercury .
If ] experiment gave the nascent ratio .
the minus pressure ) the end would have been one-fourth of the minus pressure at the beginning , or millinlbt .
In GAY-LUSSAC and WELTER'S experiments , the difference of pressure at end was millims. ; the nascent ratio in a medium would in a like experiment be millims. , the difference being about of an inch of ercury .
The evidence afforded by these may be summed up as follows:\mdash ; The initial ratio of the increment of vis under a constant volume to the increment required to effect the same change of under a constant pressure in the medium is . . . . .
In air the same ratio of the increments of heat under the same circumstances by MM .
and DESORMES ' experiments , is air the same ratio , by MM .
GAY-LUSSAC and WELTER'S experiments , is A difference in the reading of the height of the mercury in the manometer of and part of an inch old bring the respective experiments to coincide with the theory .
S 25 .
In the more recent of Mr. JOULE'S physical researches that gentleman has applied mechanical force to the compressing of air surrounded with water , to collect the heat evolved , and has found that about .
descending through the height of one foob increases the temperature of a pound of water one degree .
The same result nearly was obtained by forcing water through narrow tubes .
Mechanical force was expended , and the same proportionate amount of heat was produced in the water .
is remarkable that the same mechanical value was found the heat generated by the magneto-electric machine .
Such accordance in the ults , as Mr. JOULE remarks , seems strongly to favour the vis viva or vibratory theory of heat .
If air is similar in its constitution to a medium we may employ the deductions of this section to determine the mechanical value of any quantity of applied to it , * [ The fair agreement of ths erroneously deduced value of , with observation , was less the reason of the author not discovering his mistake of calcnlation .
We know that upon his principles the calculated value should be , which accords much less well with the observed for ordinary gases than does .
It should be in mind that the observed value , , has not , even ab the present time , been reconciled with thsory , although reasons may be given for a rture from \mdash ; R. ] J. J. ON THE PHYSICS OF MEDIA cOMPOSED OF specific of air to be 0.238 that of woe we may ascertain the mecbanical value of 1o applied to .
of water , which equal to degree applied to llb . .
Since 820 cubic feet of air at and 30 in .
tenslon weigh as much as one cubic foot of water , we have cubic feet of air which , heated one degree without being allowed to its volume , requires as much heat as one cubic foot of water to raise it one degree .
The absolute temperature at is one degree dded augments by part absolute heat or molecular viva of the air .
But the whole ) in 3444 cubic feet of air the temperature and pressur , is to the whole pressure of the atmosphere on a square foot , cting through three time , feet height , feet XIII . .
The pressure of a column of 30 inches of reury on a base of 1 square foot or 144 square inches equal to lbs. This weight raised through 10,332 ft. , corresponds to 21,904,000 lbs. raised one foot high , and part of this , or 42,04.3 , raised one foot high represents the absolute mechanical effect of of heat ] ) ] to one cubic foot of water .
Dividing this by , the number of lbs. in a bic of water , we get itised one foot high equal to the mechanical eflect correspollding to 1o of heat applied to 1 lb. of water .
This compared with .
JOULE'S result is not unsatisfactory considering the difficulties that attend the experiments that afford the data .
SECTION IV.\mdash ; ON THE RESISTANCE 0F MEDIA To A MOVING SURFACE .
S .
The simplest case of resistance is that attending the motion of a rigid and perfectly elastic plane moving in the direction of its perpendicular .
Let the velocity of its motion be , which we must at first assume to be indefinitely smaller than , the square root of the mean square molecular velocity .
Let a molecule with velocity , impinge on the front surface of the moving plane at an angle ; the impinging velocity is ; and applying the formula for the meeti-ng impact ( S 2 ) the velocity of reflexion is , and the square of this is .
The increment of molecular vis viva received from the * Note ( specific of air ) .
Note ( M. view of the motive power of heat examined ) . .
[ This is an independent calculation of the mecbanical equivalent of heat , quite from that of .\mdash ; R. ] S [ The weak point in the ment of this section appears to be the neglect of the effect of the altered of the cted n in disturbing the condition of those about to impinge .
The results can only apply the dimensions of obstacle are small in comparison with the free path of the molecules .
The rrreemenb of his with observations upon the resistance experienced by obstacles which do not comply with the above condition , unfortunately led the author to take the step in the wrong direction explained in SS27 , 28 , But it is proper to note that the author speaks with hesitation ( S29 ) .
-R .
] AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC CULES I A STATE OF MOTION .
27 plane is therefore .
To find the increment given to the medium in a unit of time we have first to consider the number of impacts in the unit of time if the plnne were at rest , and then the additiol ) number owing to its motion .
back to the reasoning in S 17 , it has been shown that the impinging velocity is repeated times in a unit of time ; hence the increment of vis in the unit is , and as the mean of all the values of is , we have\mdash ; following the reasoning in S 17 , and supposing the surface of the plane to be equal to the side of the cube that contains molecules\mdash ; the increment of vis viva to the medium by the front surface in unit of time is .
By the same reasoning to the back surface of the plane the same amount of vis is found to be taken from the medium on that side .
We have now to consider the additional number of impacts due to the motion of the plane .
Let us first suppose that no change of density is caused by the motion .
The action of a medium on a surface at rest is the same as that of a uniform current of molecules whose mean distance is and velocity see , and in the same manner the surface meeting this current with the velocity , the effect is the same as if the velocity of the current were increased to .
The additional number of impacts due to the motion of the plane is therefore , and the mean increment of vis to each being 4 , the whole increment in the unit of time is 2 .
The same reasoning applied to the action on the back surface shows that the diminution in the number of impacts is also , and the mean decrement of vis caused by each mpact being also , we have the decrement of vis in a unit of time also 2 .
The sum of these 4 is the force required to move the plane with the velocity .
The weight , whose pressure is equal to this force , is found as in the last equation of S17 : there we had , and in the same way here we have , or This result differs very much from the actual resistance of a body in as observed by ROBINS and HUITON .
In HUTTON'S Dictionary it is mentioned the resistance to a surface of one square foot , moving 20 feet per second , was found to be 1 ozs .
, and that it increased as the square of the velocity .
Now if we compute the by the mula , which is the common theory velocities , we shall find to be 15 ozs .
nearly , when is 20 feet per second , the weight of cubic foot of air being epresented by oz. Here then is a notable discrepancy ; the resistance of the medium represents air in specific gravity and tension appears to be four greater than it ought to be .
S 27 .
We have all along assumed , for the sake of simplicity and to avoid any addition to the fundamental hypothesis , that the surfaces upon which the medium acts are perfectly rigid as well as perfectly elastic , although no such , so far as we know , exists in nature .
If molecular vis is heat , the molecules of solids must be in well those of gases ; and the nature of the motion must be such as to pel.mit the equilibrium of to be ished between them respectively .
They must also be perfectly elastic ; but a surface composed of them cannot be perfectly rigid .
The .
hypothesis in respect to gases involves the necessity of making certain ions respecting the physical condition of the surfaces upon which media are supposed to act .
( 1 .
) That they are composed of molecules in a state of vibratory motion which results the that their vis makes with the attractive and repulsive forces of ( 2 .
) The nature of these vibrations and forces may remain undefined , further than that the proper to a molecule is alternately destroyed at the extremities , and in the middle of each vibration when it and the molecules are in of The impact of the molecules of a medium on the molecules of the solid surface is that of perfectly elastic bodies , and enables the equilibrium of vis viva to be established between them .
This equilibrium be by a continual interchange of 'vis , the molecules of the solid giving to the molecules of the medium and vice versa .
In the case of a heavy molecular plane supported by the elasticity of the medium , as detailed in S 2 and S , the impacts that take place on the lower surface , establish both the molecular vis equilibrium , and also the statical equilibrium of the heavy plane .
Does this new condition of surface upon which the medium acts , make any change in the relation , that was shown to subsist between the impinging velocity of succession , and weight supported when the surface was assumed as perfectly rigid ?
Then , the molecules of the medium encountered at each impact the whole of the heavy plane and communicated directly to its centre of gravity a certain infinivelocity .
Now , it a ting molecule which afterwards communicates certain effect or infinitesimal velocity on the centre of gravity of the molecular plane .
Let us endeavoll to gain a clear idea of the numerical relation between the effect and the cause that produces it , , the impinging force of the free molecule of the medium .
The centre of gravity of the whole molecular plane being at rest while the centre of gravity of each of its molecules is in a state of tense vtion , it is evident that the track or orbit described by the centre of gravity of one of its molecules must be ctly imitated but on an infinitely reduced scale and in a reverse direction by the motion of the centre of gravity of the remaining molecules of the plane .
The action and reaction of the molecular forces are equal .
At any point of the orbit of one of the lower molecules of the let a free molecule of medium impinge .
If they are AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE IsFOTION .
29 equal in mass they will exchange velocities ; this interchange modifies the vibration and disturbs the harmony between the simultaneous motions of the centres of gravity above referred to ; the motion of the centre of gravity of the molecule suddenly , not so with the centre of gravity of the remainder of the plane .
If the connection between the plane and the molecules were broken at the instant of impact , it is clear that the centre of gravity of the remaining molecnles of the plane must continue to move in the direction and with the velocity it had at the instant .
Now as the concurrence may take place at any part of the vibration , either going or returning , it is plain that the mean motion of the centre of gravity of the remainder of the plane caused by the transference of vis from the molecule of the plane to that of the medium is zero .
But the centre of gravity of the remainder of the plane reciprocates the actiye eifect of the molecular force on the new velocity until it is destroyed at the end of the first vibration ; the molecular force acting as much on the inder of the plane as upon the molecule .
The destruction of this by the mutual binding force destroys in the opposite direction the same amount of vis in the plane , or generates it in the direction , and as we have to attend only to the effect upon the centre of gravity of the plane made by the motion transferred from the medium to the molecule of the plane , the mean effect must be equal to the mean incident vis of the molecules of the medium ; in short the same as if the striking molecule cohered to the plane after impact .
This is the case if the plane is at rest when struck , but a condition of statical equilibrium requires that the infinitesimal descending motion by gravity should be equal to the ascending infinitesimal motion given by the impetus of the molecules .
The upward velocity therefore given to the plane by this impetus is only one half what it would be if the plane were at rest when struck ( see S2 ) .
Thus the expression ( see S 2 ) becomes , and becomes , and A becomes A. These alterations make no difference in the subsequent reasoning until we come to S 17 where the equation for A is employed , and in consequence of its change of value the terminal equation is changed to This alters the value of from , the yelocity acquired in falling through one and a half uniform atmospheres , to , the velocity acquired in falling through three uniform atmospheres , and the numerical value of in the medium that corresponds with air at the temperature of melting ice is 2244 feet per second .
S 28 .
As this change in the value of reconciles the discrepancy in the theory of resistance , and in the subjects of the two concluding sections , it .
may be proper to illustrate by diagram the general principle that the mean impinging effect of free molecules on a cluster of cohering molecules is the same as if the 1IlolecuJes cohered at the instant of impact .
Let be the molecular plane consisting of molecules , and one of its lower molecules at rest between attractive and repellent forces .
( 1 .
) Let receive an impulse in the direction , so that its initial velocity may be ; it will proceed along the line QA until its motion is subdued at some point A by the molecular repulsive force ; at the instant when the centre of gravity of the molecule , and centre of gravity of , are at their minimum distance both move together with the common velocity , and this is the velocity communicated to their common centre of gravity , which is not disturbed further by their mutual action during the vibratory motion that ensues .
In this case there is both molecular vis viva communicated to , and aJso the velocity to the common centre of gravity , and a free molecule of the medium has lost the velocity ( 2 .
) Suppose , in the next instance , that the centre of gravity of or to be stationary , while is continuing its vibrations , and let it be struck when at the centre of its descending vibration by a free molecule having the same velocity They will be reflected from each other without gain or loss of motion , and will move back towards A instead of forward to G. Here there is a loss of the down motion and the gain of an up motion .
By the first ( 1 .
) the centre of gravity of continues to ascend with the velocity thab it has at the instant of impact ; and as the downward force of that subdued this is gone , the centre of gravity of the whole or molecules acquires the permanent upward velocity .
By the second the same velocity is given to the common centre of gravity by the gain of the up motion as in the first case of i1npact .
The result of the second mode of impact is thus to communicate the velocity 2 to the common centre of gravity .
( 3 .
) If the same kind of impact takes place with in the middle of the ascending vibration , it is evident that the force of impact is zero at that point , and the upward velocity to the centre of gravity zero .
Now ( impacts ) .
This result is more obvious if we assume the velocity of the free molecules and that of The result of the first of these is - , and of the second Half the sum of these , AND RFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A MOTION .
is , and thus the mean result of these two equally probable impacts is the transmission of the vis of the impinging molecule to the plane as if it cohered to it after impact .
( 4 .
) At either of the extremities of the vibration the same law obyiously pplies , but it is the two impacts where viva is taken from again returned to whose effects ought to be viewed together .
In the meeting impact let the velocity of from change to with a different direction ; then according to the second case of impact the upward effect on the plane is to give it the velocity , and the loss of velocity is .
Let this loss be returned in an overtaking impact so that shall become ; then according to the first case of impact the upward effect on the plane is .
In these two impacts returns to its original condition of motion , and the mean effect is .
A continual and equal interchange of vis being necessary to the persistent molecular condition of the plane and of the medium , the same is effected by means of impacts which take place equally in the and descending vibration .
This equality seems to be a necessary condition because the motions that are taken account of are the velocities of impact resolved in a vertical direction only , and the plane of oact cannot now be assumed always to be horizontal as in the case of the rigid plane ; hence the absolute velocity in the vibration and the resolved impinging velocity are independent variables .
6 .
29 .
Such is the view of the phenomen which seems to authorise the change that has been imposed on the value of the mean square molecular velocity .
It has no pretension to be considered as a demonstration , and we are therefore not permitted to make use of it as a synthetical deduction from the hypothesis .
Nevertheless , if it is admitted as being probable , the probability is increased if it reconciles at once all the discrepancies that have been met with , and at the same time neither affects any one of the preceding deductions where the analogy to the properties of gases is perfect nor introduces any other point of discordance .
If we now revise the mode of estimating the law of resistance in S 26 it is obvious that the mean increment of velocity communicated by the plane now considered as molecular to the free molecules of the medium is not , but , and hence the mean increment of vis in each incident molecule is not , but , and the increment in a of time not , but .
The sum of the front increment and back decrement is not , but \ldquo ; ; and as is no longer equal to , but to , we have , or , which is the equation derived from the common theory of the resistance of the atmosphere at low velocities .
It will be remarked that the resistance is as much derived from the minus essure behind as from the resistance in front , whereas the common theory only takes account of the inertia of the front which is assumed at low velocities as constituting the yhole of the resistance .
*Note ( objection to undulatory theory of hoat ) .
J. J. TON ON ] PHYSICS OF DIA COMPOSED OF ECTION \mdash ; ON THE EQITILIBRIUM OF A DIUM , IT TO ATMOSPHERE OF A $ 30 .
Suppose the height of the atmoSPhere AB to form the axis of a parabola of whid ] the verte-x A is ths lmlnit .
If a body begins to fall from A it evident from the of fling bodies its acquired velocity at any is porportional to the ordinate of the parabola at that point .
Divide AB into an infinite Dber of parts so that the length of each shall be proportional to the ordinate of the parabola at that part .
Suppose that .
each of these parts one molecule is upwards and nwards , striking agamst the and molecuIes of the adjacent parts with a velocity proportional to the ordinate of the bola and equal therefore to what a body would acquire in falling from the vertex It is evident that each of the parts or infinitesimal divisions will be versed in the same time by its molecule , and that the impinging velocities of each pair are equal , so that there is a perfect equilibrium and constancy of phenomena ; but the upper impact of a molecule against the one above it is made with ] velocity than the lower impact against the one below , because the accelerating force of gJavity increases the velocity during the interval of descent , and the acceleration is represented by the increment of the parabola 's ordinate in that interval .
If be accelerating force of gravity , or velocity bestowed on a falling body every unit of time , the accelelation in each interval of descent , or infinitesimal division of the height AB , is evidently .
If this constant increment of velocity should by any cause be reduced in any given proportion , the aggregate effect must evidently be the same as if the force of gravity vere reduced in the same proportion .
In such a vertical column of single molecules it is apparent that the equilibrium acquires a continually increasing velocity in the molecular motion from the ummit to the base ; and since the ) of a molecule is measured by the square of its velocity , it is also obvious that the molecular vira increases in the simple proportion of the distance from the summit .
And knowing the amount of vis in the molecules at the base , we also know the height of the column , which is simply the height due to the molecular velocity .
S 31 .
In a medium the nature of the action that sustains the upper molecules must be the same .
The mean of the upper molecular impacts of a stratum must have less force * [ This section atteulpts to deal with one of bhe most difficulb points in the theory .
That the loss of velocity suffered ) every molecule twill lead to a smaller mean velocity above than below seoms , at first .
This consideration urged by GUTH R ; , in his reply ( p. 85 ) , VELL n that a similar argument , which occurred to him in 1866 , arly upset his belief in calculation .
result really dopends upon an assumption that , at a given height , the moleculal ' velocities are all the same ; whereas , according to the Maxwellian law velocities to be found at all .
The force of bhis consideration will be appreciated when it preciate is ered that those molccuIes which at any time move at a low level with low velocities would not of themselves leach a high level at all .
] AND CTLY F , LASTIC ECULES TN STATE than the mean of the lower , the difference being the accelerating of gravity in breadth of the stratum .
We have also to remember that the nature cf the librium of a medium requires that if the velocities of all the molec , ules that horizontal or other plane in a given time a.re eSolved endicnl ) plane , the sum of the squares of these resolved velocities are equal in opposite directions .
In a constant infinitesimal time the bsolute acceleration of velocity is evidently greater with the vertically moving molecules than with those iquely to vertical ; thus the aggregate effect of the accelerating force of gravity in increasing molecular velocity must be less than if it acted upon them directly as in the vertical .
The , question is , how much less ?
for such proportion must we consider the force of gravity to be reduced , supposing it to act uniformly on all the molecules of the atmosphere .
The retardatio1l of the ascending molecules of a stratum is equal to the acceleration of the descending molecules .
Let us consider the latter .
We assume from the original hypothesis that in any infinitesimal area the lines of molecular motion lie equally in every direction , so that if supposed to issue from one point , they would be directed equally to every point of the surface of a sphere of which is the centre .
Let SB represent one of these velocities and the vertical acceleration by gravity in the infinitesimal time .
With the radius SB describe a hemisphere having its base on the horizontal plane PS .
It is evident thal the locus of the point is the surface of another hemisphere with its base at the distance of below the plane PS , and that the area of the space , between the bases is equal to the between the surfaces of the hemispheres .
Now , if gravity acted on each of molecular motion , instead of act , ing only in the vertical , the lnmon increment of velocity that would affect all is ; and this , when is infinitesimal , is equal to the quotient of the area between the concentric , PBAR , by the surface of the inner hemisphere .
But the actual increase of BS is , and the mean increment is found by aciding up all the particular values of , and dividing the sum by the number of values , or , what amounts to the same thing , taking the quotient of the area between the equal hemispl ) eres PBAR , cnfb by the surface of one of them .
Now the first is equal to the area between the bases , which is equal to the of a great circle by Bn , the latter is well known to be equal to two great circles ; therefore the quotient OF OF $4 , it seems to be clear the molecules of a mediuln are collectively ( Ylly half as much affected by gravity as if they all moved in vertical lines ; but it has been ( $b 30 ) that if they moyed in vertical lines the helght of the atmosphere wou ld be the due to the molecular velocity ; but as the increments of their velocity by gravity is only one..half what they would recelve if their motion were v ' than height must be computed as if the force of grayity were only one- a actua it at a de th below the summit of amount .
Thus , if be the ocity a a the atmosphere , the height due to fhis with the full effect of avity is , and with half it is .
Thus we arrive at the following deduction .
The , depth the sum of the atmosphere , the height of stratum is to the quotient of the mean velocity at that point by the force of , or to double the heiqht free and unresisted , would ascend if .
with cm eqnal to the roof of the molecular velocity the XVII . .
To ascertain the law of density we have the equation in S].7 , modified as in S 27 to for the reasons given in last section .
By this we have , which applies to any part of the atmosphere at all heights .
Differentiating the equation , we have .
But is evidently equal to , and ; therefore \mdash ; ; or ; and by we have Thus we deduce that the density of the medium any depth below the surnmit of an atmosphere is proportional to the fifth power of that depth . . . .
XVIII . .
As we had we may further deduce that , or that the elastic force of the medium any point is proportional to the sixth powerof the of point below the snmmit and to the sixth ) of the sqnare elocity . . . . . . . . .
XIX .
l'hese deductions are all embraced by the equations and .
To compare these results with what is known of the physical condition of our atmosphere , we have first the obvious correspondence between the diminution of molecular and of temperature in ascending .
No cient anation of this has , I believe , been yet offered , for it is needless to attempt to do so by supposing the specific heat air to increase as its density inishes , as no difference of specific heat disturbs the equilibrium of the temperature of bodies placed in horizontal contact .
The very fact of a gaseous atmosphere presenting a constant inequality of temperature at different elevations seems to prove that the law of the vertical equilibrium of temperature is essential .
different from the of horizontal equilibrium .
FREE AND RFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULLS IN A STATL MOTION .
The actual rate of diminution is very ting and uncertain , varying from ) to 500 feet for each degree .
The formula of our hypothesis ] only to the dition of an atmosphere resting on a horizontal base ; such , indeed , as may be found only during a balloon ascent .
M. GAY-LUSSAC , in his celebrated ascent from the neighbourhood of Paris , found the depression amount to Fahr. in 7634 yards .
This corresponds to 316 feet of elevation to , if the rate is miform .
We have already determined ( S 27 ) the value of in air at the temperature of melting ice to be 2244 feet per second ; hence 10-6,593 feet , the height of the atmosphere at this temperature nearly 30 miIes ) .
Now , taking RUDBERG'S expansion of dry , the value of in degrees of Fahr. is at this temperature , and , which is the elevation that ought to correspond to 1o by the hypothesis , in which also the rate is uniform .
If DALTON and GAY-LUSSAC'S constant of expansion is preferred , the elevation for 1o is 328 feet .
The hypothesis requires that the diminution of temperature should be uniform , and the best authorities agree that it approximates to uniformity at considerable tions .
In M. GAY-LUSSAC'S table of observations taken during his ascent , the indications of the thermometer are somewhat irregular , as might be expected from the manner of making the observations , and the formula ( LAPLACE'S ) employed to compute the elevations may not , perhaps , answer so well balloon ascenbs as it has been found to do in mountainous eleyations .
We have also to keep in view that the atmosphere absorbs a large proportion of the Sun 's rays in their passage through , besides being supplied with heat from the ground irregularly according to the varying characteristics of its surface .
Taking all these circumstances into account , the accordance between theory and M. GAY-LUSSAC'S extreme observations is nearer than might be expected , and probably will not be found so exact at lesser tions .
But the hypothesis admits of being tested without employing any empirical barometric formula , because , if it is correct , the tension as shown by the of mercury ought to vary as the sixth power of the absolute temperature ( from zero at Fahr. ) ( XIX ) .
But the observations must be taken at stationary points during the ascent , so that time may be for the thermometer to acquire the temperature of the stratum of air in which the balloon rests .
Let be the absolute temperature of Fahr. zero ; then for any two observations we ought to have ; in which , are the temperature and tension at any one altitude and , the same at any other .
The value of eliminated from this equation ought to be 448 or 461 .
I have tried this with M. GAY-LUSSAC'S sixteenth and last observations , which appear to be the most favourable for accuracy , and comes out equal to 467 .
The rate of diminution also in the interval of 1800 metres between these two obseryations agrees well with theory , being 310 feet for each Fahr. * * Note ( Formula for measuring by mometer ) .
J. J. WATLRSTON ON THE PHYSICS OF MEDIA COMPOSED OF .
We must llow endeavour to show that an atmosphere of mixed media follows exactly , same of equilibrium . .
of rent homogeneous media supposed separate from eac other must evidently the height if the mean square molecular velocity .
at the base of of them is the same , and , consequently , the molecular vis each atnllospheleyill , at the same height , be proportional to the specific molecular weight of the medium .
If , on the contrary , the molecular vis at the base of each is the saddle , then will the height which is proportional to the mean square molecular velocity follow the inverse ratio of the specific molecular weight , which is also equal to the direct ratio of the mean square molecular velocity ( VII .
) .
Thus , a hydrogen atmosphere ought to be four times the height of an oxygen atmosphere , \amp ; c. When mixed , the molecules of each of the media at the same height are necessarily in of , and the mean space occupied by each molecule is therefore the same VIII To see distinctly that the condition of the mixture is exactly that of a homogeneous mediun ] of equal specific gravity , or , what is the , whose specific nlolecular weight is equal to the sum of the products of the specific molecular weight of by its proportionate volume\mdash ; and in equal volumes the same amount of ) ) as the mixture\mdash ; we only to ecollect that a constant of descent in the atmosphere corresponds in all parts of it to the same constant increment of mean square molecular velocity , whatever the molecular velocity may be , or whatever weight of the molecules with which it is associated , and the increment of in each medium for the same constant increment of mean quare molecular velocity is as the product of its specific weight by its constituent volume .
But the increment of square molecular velocity in the homogeneous being the same as in each of the constituents of the heterogeneous medium , and the product of its specific weight by its constituent volume being equal to the sum of the products of the specific weight and constituent volume of each , it is obvious that the same increment of descent through the atmosphere the increment of vis in the homogeneous is the same as in the mixed medium , and that generally the physical condition of an atmosphere consisting of various media mixed together is exactly the same as if it were composed of one medium whose specific gravity is equal to that of the mixture .
If each constituent of atmosphere were supposed to form an atmosphere by itself , and ranged by each other side to side , and having all the same height , the of their densities or proportional number of molecules in a constant volume vould be the at all heights , but the riva would be respectively as the specific of each .
If in this condition they were brought together so that might occupy the of one , immediate of ch edium would ensue , the heavy molecules losing and the lighb molecules gaining until the equilibrium is established ; and this , as well as their united density , ] ) Ilds with ] the same qualities of the homogeneous medium at AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
the same height .
All this is an obvious corollary of what precedes .
condition of equilibrium of an tmosphere 2the same whether that tmosphere consists of one homogeneous or of a ixture of media the specific . . . . . .
The relation between the total height of an atmosphere of the medium to the height due to the molecular square velocity ( XVII .
) enables us easily to estimate the effect of diminished gravity , and assign the limits of temperature at the base , beyond which an atmosphere cannot be retained .
If the force of gravity is constant , it has been shown that the height of the atmosphere is equal to the height a body would ascend with the molecular velocity , and supposed to be acted upon by half the force of gravity ; but as it really diminishes ss we ascend , according to the ratio ( in which the radius of the planet and the height above its surface ) , the true height must be computed with the variable half-force , instead of with the constant half-force Let be the initial velocity of the vertical projectile at the surface of the planet , ?
its velocity at the height ; then shall , and the retardation in the differential time .
Substituting the value of , the differential of the time in this equation , we have - , and multiplying by we have .
Integrating this expression gives , so that when , we have by eliminating ( which then represents the total height of the atmosphere ) ; being its value in terms of the radius of the planet , of the mean square molecular velocity at its surface , and of the force of gravity at its surface .
In the former expression for where the force of gravity was supposed constant , we had , or Substitutiug this value of in ) equation for , we have , if is infinitesimal in respect to unity .
Thus the correction to be applied for the power of gravity in ascending increases as the square of the height , and employing the preceding data , the total height of the earth 's equilibrated dry atmosphere , considered as a medium at the temperature of melting ice , is by this theory 157,776 feet , being 1183 feet more than the last determination , with constant force of gravity ; and the correction to be added to the height computed with constant force of gravity is in feet , the square of the height in miles .
S37 .
We may express the last equation in a more general form with the molecular vis as the constant instead of the mean square molecular velocity .
If the specific weight of the medium ta that corres ] ) onds with air is taken as unity , and .
is the value of the molecular ) viva the of the planet : wt any ith an other medium whose specific is , its mean square molecular with the same ) is , ( VII ) ; and the absolute hejght of its atmosphere .
This equation gives the absolute height of an atmosphere under every variety of condition , and determines the limit of ) at the of a planet beyond which the medium cannot be retain ed , for when is infinite we have or With to the medium that represents the atmosphere of our planet , we have already determined the yalue of be ( 2244)2 , when the absolute temperature is49 and consequently , when , the surface temperature must be Fahr. for air , and 4556o for a hydrogen atmosphere whose specific weight is At these surface temperatures such atmospheres would slowly evaporate into space .
* At the surface of the Ioon the limit of temperature for an atmosphere of air is 3008o absolute or 250.5o on Fahr. scale .
For a hydrogen atmosphere it is absolute or \mdash ; 253o Fahr. But the proximity of the Earth reduces these limits respectively and , so that if the Moon 's surface had even a higher temperature 2405o , the Earth , according to this theory , would then gradually withdraw the whole of any atmosphere of air that it might then have possessed .
By employing ) same equation , it appears that the temperature at the surface of a body like the Sun in magnitude and mass requires to be 13,400o to sustain an atmosphere identical in constitution and height to that of the Earth .
S 38 .
It will not fail to be remarked that the positive evidence in favour of the reaso1ling of this section turns on one point .
Does the law of vertical equilibrium of temperature correspond with the law of vertical librium of vis viv We have seen that the correspondence is more exact than might be expected , although it is extremely difficult to put the question to the test of direct experiment .
In a column of air 318 feet high the temperature at the bottom ought to be 1o higher than at the top in any state of the atmosphere .
If air is made to circulate quickly in two tubes of this height ] with non-conducting material , the difference of temperature ought to be very distinctly shown by thermometers at the top and bottom .
The quick motion of the air downwards and upwards may be expected to compensate for the disturbing effect of the sides of the tube , and even to cause their internal surface to assume the proper atmospherical gradient of temperature .
The accuracy of the formula for measuring heights by the barometer that may be derived from the deductions of this section depends on the integrity of the law of diminution of temperature , but as this varies from local causes , the theoretical rule does not seem to apply so well as those in common use , which are partly empirical .
* Note heat .
Note .
FREE AND PERFECTLY OLEC O A STATE OFi MOTION .
39 strictly theoletical formula may be deduced if it is permitted to assume that the change of temperature between two stations is uniform , whatever that difference may amount to , and likewise that the change of density is conformable .
SECTION \mdash ; ON THE VELOCITY WITH WHICH IMPULSES ARE TRANSMITTED THROUGH A S39 .
The reasoning on the subject of this section is founded on the principle that the velocity must correspond with the average velocity resolved through the medium in any one direction .
We have seen in that the mean square velocity resolved in one direction is equal to one-third of that mean square velocity , and it is easy to prove , if all the velocities of the molecules are equal , that the average resolved velocity in one direc- is equal to one-haIf the common velocity .
As the equal lines representing the molecular on one side of a plane may be assumed to radiate equally in every direction from one point , they will spread to every point of the hemispbere , resting on the plane ; let perpendiculars be dropped from these points upon the plane .
The notient of the sum of these their number is equal to the common length of thoe equal lines .
The proof of this is derived from the integration of simple circular functions the quotient of the sum of the sines of a hemisphere divided by their number , or by the surface of the hemisphere , equal to half the radius .
Thus , if be the inclination of the diatinoo lines to the plane , ?
) represents the aggregate of the perpendiculars upon the base of the nisphere , and represents their aggregate number .
Collecting the quotients of the first by the second for every value of fronu to or what is the same , integrating these functions , and dividing the first by the second , we have the quotient equal to , which is the mean velocity resolved perpendicular to the stratum when the molecular velocity is constant .
S40 .
But the hypothesis does not admit of the molecules having all the same *Note M ( barometric formula ) .
he idea of the direct connection between the velocity of sound and that of the molecules is of great intelest , and le at once to the conclusion that the velocity of sound is independent of density , bub proportional to absolute temperaturc .
The next person to raise the question was ( ' .
Ann vol. 118 , 1863 , p. 494 ) , but his calculation is as defective as that of the author .
On prind ciples , the ratio of the velocity of sound 10 the molecular velocity of mean square should be , as was by MAXWELL PRESTON , Phil. .
In the 'Philosophical Magazine ' for 1858 ( vol. 16 , p. ERSTON returned to the subject .
It is curious that he arded t ordi nary hydrodynamical investigation , not merely as needlessly direct , but as inconsistent wibh the molecular theory .
A result in hal'mony with experiment cannot be ined on the basis of a hypothetical medium constituted of elastic spheres , for such a medium would have a ratio of f , pecific heats different from that observed in gases.\mdash ; R. ] velocities ; we therefore to enquire into the effects of this diversity upon the velocity of ansmission .
The lecules i a small sphere of the medium at any given instant may be classed in respect to their velocity into sets , and of each set we are allowed , by the hypothesis which we are following , to assume that there is an equal number movmg every and that since continuous uniformity in the density requires that the number contained in the spherical space should be always the same , the exit of one of a set may be conceiyed to be immediately followed by the entrance of another of the same moving in same direction and with the same velocity .
-half the number in a set i-s their distance.from a given plane , and the other half .
distance .
Let the motions of one of these halves be resolved in the direction perpendicular to plane , and let us add together such resolved spaces as are described by all the molecules of the set that happen to be in the sphere during a constant time for so long as they remain ] in it , and divide by the constant number of molecules of the set in the splJere at imes ; bhe quotient must evidently be the mean velocity in that direction and set , and must be the uniform rate with which an impulse is conveyed in one direction by means of an infinite series of impacts , the space between two impacts measured in the constant direction being the step forward made by the portion of the impulse contained in the trayersing motion of the molecule from one of the impacts to the other .
The numb lnoving in any one direction with the velocity is equal to the number moving in any other direction with the same velocity , and each of these numbers takes the same time to traverse the sphere .
If we compare this time with that taken by the molecules of another velocity or set , it is obvious that these times must be inversely as the velocities , and the number that continuously pass through the sphere or any other constant in a mnst be the velocity : for this may be estimated as if there were continuous currents of molecules moving in every possible direction with the respective velocities ; the encounters that may be imagined to interrupt this continuity being infinite in number do not alter the general average of velocity or direction or proportionate umber , therefore each velocity and direction may be taken as constant .
Now , for any one velocity viewed thus as constant , the mean resolved velocity in one direction of all the molecules that happen to move with this velocity at any instant is , above demonstrated , equal to ; if we the resolved ) the molecules been in the sphere relocity during constant time , divide by the constant number that in the sphere at instant , we requi1e to multiply by a factor that is proportional to , so that , the resulting product , is proportional to the mean distance traversed in a constant time by the molecules that have appeared in a constant space to move with this velocity during the constant time .
Now , suppose an impulse to be given to the medium at any point , and an nitely long cylinder of the medium to extend from this point ; the impulse FRL'ht AND CTLY ELASTIC IN given to the molecules at its extremity can be con vcyed the medium only by means of the molecular encounters , each ] of which contributes to with ) diflerent velocities resolved in the direction of the cylinder .
It been shown the mean traversed distance in a given space .
a iven time ( me to any molecular velocity is as the square of velocity multiplied by the proportion of the number of molecules associated with it .
Tberefore , the united effect of ] ] velocities must be equal to the of these products , is , or medium multiplied by the mean square molecular velocity .
But it ) that if the molecular velocity were constant and equal to , the absolute value of the 1nean resolved velocity , or tance , lring a ) time in one direction , would be .
Now , as the traversed dist , ance or transmitting effect of this velocity in comparison to the other velocities , \amp ; c. , as they actually exist in the medium , is as to \amp ; c. , we arrive at the conclusion that is actually the uniform velocity with which an impulse is transmitted through a medium .
S41 .
According to the easoning in SS 27 and 28 , the value ) is the velocity acquired in ' through { hree un iform atmospheres .
ives feet per second the temperature of melting ice , and the tenlperature of , being an increase of of foot for degree .
In the ticle , " " Acoustics Penly Cycl it is stated ttJat 1125 feet per second accords nearly with the mean of the best experiments , and that the difference for 1o is of a foot .
ocity by the hypothesis is therefore about part greater than is found by which , in a distance of 8 miles , amounts to a difference of one secon in the time of travelling that distance .
This is ) robably a greater difference ) can be allowed between observation and a correct theory .
M. MOLL'S observationls , ] seem to be standard authority , were taken with such precfmtions that an of 1 in ) 40 seconds can hardly be admitted .
likewise agree well with Mr. GOLDINGHAM'S observations at Madras .
In taking astronomical observations of the same kind with the same instrument , it has lately been discovered that two individuals differ sensibly from each other .
This has led to the suspicion that in all ) servations there is ) error due to some obscure physiological cause that allows small interval of time between sensation and perception , or volition .
If ; were the same for the sellse of ) earing as for vision , it could not affect the results ents on sound ; but it is quite possible that it may be diiferent , and the very fact ) such do exist , may justify a suspicion that such an effect might interfere and prevent a perfect degree of accuracy from being obtained .
We have made no hypothesis of the nature of the of the molecules .
May the discrepancy arise from something omitted in this ?
In other media , according to this theory , the velocity varies as the in verse square root of their specific gravity , and at different as the square root of the absolute temperatures .
It depends wholly on the thermometer , and is quite indeenden t of indications of the barometer .
This accords with the lleory .
The ] ecular velocity of watery vapour eing to that of air as to moisture in the tmosphere ought to the effect of accelerating the feeb per second in rate latitudes and 10 feet in the tropics at a maximum .
NOTES .
A. \mdash ; Motion destructible iliatfcr .
celJding weight is apparently expen decl , but it is only transthe ) .
If the elements of matter are perfectly elastic , this kind of nsferen ce be of general occurrence wherever force is exerted , because the exertion of force is then but its transference either from its invisible con stant condition , ils in the nJedium , to its visible transitory condition , as in the ascent of the , or .
In the former case force exists in the matter of the medium without ; in the latter it is being transferred to the agent of gravitation , so to apparently released and disconnected from matter .
The force of a medium , when it ) a force of gravity , is similar to the force of a wind or a CUlTent of afer on a stationary surface .
Is it not possible to view all forces as inseparable from some form of matter , and all the phellomena of nature , as not consisting of the creation and annihilation of but in its transference from one form of matter to other ?
Notc This enables us conveniently to represent the relation between the density and the square root of the mean square molecular velocity of a medium while it is being dilated or compressed .
as che origin of co-ordinates , and let QP represent and PN the Join .
If the medium is compressed so that -becomes , then shall become , and if it dilates so that becomes , then shall ) become FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
Each point in the positive quarter of the co-ordinate axes represents a medium of a given density and temperature or vis ; the sixth powel of the ordinate represents its density , and the square of its ' its vis vira .
Thus , is the expression for the tension or elastic force of a medium whose point on this chart ( as it may be called ) is defined in position by the co-ordinates If is supposed constant , to , their locus traces out a hyperbolic curve ( such as ) whose equation is .
It is a curve of constant pressure , of which kind is STPC for one .
on the large chart of pours ( Plate 1 .
) .
The sine of the inclination of its tangent to the axis of is .
Any gas expanding or contracting under a constant pressure traces out a curve of this kind with its varying density and vis viva .
It is remarkable that if the points corresponding to the density and of vapour in contact with its generating liquid are laid down on this chart ( fig. 3 ) , they range themselves in a straight line , such as , that issues from some point advanced on the axis .
As this fact applies to all vapours that have been experimented upon , it seems to point to the physical law of their equilibrium with the liquid .
On the accompanying chart of vapours I have projected the points of several sets of experiments .
It may be viewed as a portion of the fig. 3 enlarged , the point or origin of co-ordinates , being about 40 inches to the left of the outer The following details will be sufficient , with the chart , to enable any one to satisfy himself of the truth , and , if he pleases , to construct the formula of any new pour by means of two simple experiments on its tension .
In vapours , as well as gases , the pressure or tension being equal to the product of the absolute temperature or by the density , to find the latter we have only to divide the tabular tension ( in inches of mercury ) opposite Fahr. scale by the former .
The sixth root of the quotient is the value of , and the square root of is the corresponding value of .
In the accompal ying c I have projected several sets of tables of pressures in this .
The unit value of is inches long , and the unit value of , or square root of absolute temperatul.e , is of an inch in length .
It will be remarked how nearly the experiments of and the French Academy on steam range themselves in one line .
observe this more distinctly I have drawn the straight line SF through SOUTHERN'S pressure at , and the French Academy:s observation at .
The divergence at the four rlnost experiments of SOUTHERN is more apparent than real , the greatest ence b to only of an inch of merculy .
The general equation for a straight line TR ( fig. 3 ) is , in which QT and .
Each vapour being represented by such a line with two constants and , to find these constants , which may be done by two ) on any one vapour , let be the tension at ature F ) , an the at temperature ; then since and , we have MR. J. J. ON PHYS l DIA OF , or ; and by 2nd .
From these we Frotl the two observations corresponding to the points and , I have computed the value of tarl , which define the equation for the line ) to the imenls of SOUTHERN and the French combined .
This is ta , or by putting the colllmon denominator we the following formula for the tension of steam ) tures ( in inches of mercury ) .
It is singular that the ) oints of projection to each of the many sets of experimen ts on range themselves in a line , but these lines do not coincide , except in the case of SOUTHERN and the French Academy .
Each set is thus consistent the law , on this account their want of accordance with each other is difficult to explain .
It might be caused by an error of the standard scales , but this hardly possible ; or impurity of the water , which is not very likely where every ) recaution has been so carefully attended to .
Dr. URE'S line of observations is more inclined to the axis than , the in the formula being and The line of the American 's experiments has yet a elevation , the about other lines of } ) the chart explain themselves .
It will be remarked that bhe deflections from the straight are all of a zig-zag character , there is no general bending to one another , and this to show that there is some physical law upon the equilibrium of vapours with their liquids is arranged that is represented by the bove function of the temperature .
As it seems to apply to all vapours , it probably not beyond the grasp of physical research , if the vis theory is ad-nitted , it evidently does not Jend on the chemical qualities of the body more does the of volumes in gases .
It must be colifessed that as yet we have but few materials wherewith to found a process of .
The point is the specific heab of steam .
If and constant of nsion is preferred , 448 is to be substituted in the place of FREE AND RFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STAT MOTION .
If it is more than about -third that of vater , if for equal volumes it is not same as that of air and the other gases , then is the theory incomplete defective .
It is to be about , but this requires confirmation .
The specific heat the vapour of alcohol ought to be only that of the liquid .
The vapour of be the ] on lie th that of the liquid .
Vapour of etherine th .
pour of of citrbo th .
pour of oil of pentine .
Vapour of bromine th , \amp ; c. These are from MM .
LA RIVE and MARCET'S experiments .
Is there any direct evidence in favonr of or ainst this view ?
So discover , little , if any , on either side .
It is quite undetermined as yet by and is so surrounded by practical difficulties that it will probably long etnain so .
But analogy vours it in so many ways as to make it bighly probable .
Liquid etherine has four times the specific heat its vapour ought to have , its specific gravity .
Now , olefiant is isomeric with etherine , and its specific gravity is one-half that of etherine vapour .
It can be doubted specihc heat of liquefied olefiant gas for equal weig.hts is the same as that of which ] corresponds vely nearly with ) , turpentine , and the other rburetH .
it is so it will be double what it to be , if for equal volumes it is the same as that of air and the other gases .
Now , the ench chelnists who have af , different times made experiments on the specific heat of this sgree that it is nearly times that of air , while Mr. ( ' Edin .
Trans on the other hand , with his simple and apparently most efficient apparabus , found it to be the same as that of air , and accounts for the higher number of the French chemists by the great difficulty there is in it from ethereal pours .
It is the same with carbonic acid gas ( the only other exception to the law of equal specific ] leat for equal volumes ) .
The French chemists agree that its specific heat lies between and ; Mr. , by many experiments , that if dried , it no exception to the general .
Judgin from the analogy of othel similar binary compounds , there cannot be a doubt that the specific heat of uefied rbonic acid is double , if not three times , that of the gas .
It would } ) a most valuable addition to our knowledge if this great change in the specific heat of a body when it becomes vapour could be thoroughly established , and it in vain to proceed with subject of vapours until it is so .
Sulphuric ether is probably better adapted for the experiment than other body .
Its boiling temperature is very low , and there is a vast disproportion between the specific heat of the what may be expected in the vapour .
Suppose a volume of it and of air maintained in equilibrinm of pressure temperature of a bent tube with mercul.y .
suddell small equal is made in ) at the same instant , the difference of pressure that will then become apparent will indicate the value of the latent heat of the vapour in terms of its specific heat , as we know the value of the same in terms of the specific heat 46 J. J. ON THE PHySTCS COMPOSED the of the specific heat of the vapour to that of water .
The follows the line in its , while the vapour is keep to .
its Tho latenlt heat of pours is another subj wbcre there for much additional .
Dr. in ) ictionary of a table of eight vapours , but none of the liquids appear to have been pure .
The ether boiled at 1 ] , and the specific gravity of the alcohol was a corl.ection is made for want ) urity , it is singular that the latent heat of each is almost exactly the inverse ratio of the specific of its vapour .
This indicate that the heat required to vaporize molecule of each of these bodies is the same , and amounts to 3000o , to the constant specific heat of a seous molecule , which is the proper theoretical Is this the of the force of liquid On the theo ] of this , for 1 lb. of , amonnts to the force required to lb. to the height of about 680,000 feet .
According to MITSCHERLICH , the generated by the union of the constituent elelnents of the same quantity of water amounts to ten times this force .
attention ] lately been given to thermo-cbemistry ; but it is to retted that no notice has been taken of the permanent change of specific , gravity that is usually found to ensue in chemical mixtures that evolve heat .
It would be interesting to ascertain if there is any harmonious connection between the quantity of heat evolved and the change of atomic volume .
Dr. has given a curious example of nitric acid , where the permanent change of volume appears to be the same as would be used by a permanent change of temperature equal to heat evolved .
Since only two experiments are required to fix a line of on the cbart , it would not be very arduous undertaking to accomplish this for bodies that throw off vapours at accessible temperatures .
We might then the means of amswering the various questions that cannot to themselves oo looking at the chart ; first , do the vapou of arsenic , iodine , camphor , salts of ammonia , and the other solids that rise into vapour before becoming liquid , follow the general law ?
question has yet to be determined .
How are the lines of vapour of the bodies related to each other ?
We have only one as yet , , the vapour of mercury by M. AvoGADRO .
It will be remarked that the line drawn through , the third and the second last observation , agrees very well with the sition of the other poin t , s. This line produced meets the axis at , which is certainly lower the temperature assigned by Dr. delicate experiment as the point of no vapour .
In judging of this , however , we must recollect that the sity is represented not by the ordinate to the Iine of vapour , but to its sixth .
; hence , the of , the density indicated by the line on the chart is only of the PERFECTLY density of an atmosphere .
The formula that corresponds to this line the ( and It will be remarked that the line for DALTON'S ether ( which , from its low boiling point , must have been nearly pure ) , THOMPSON'S pyroxilic spirit , and the well determined line for steam , are nearly parallel ; is parallelism perfect ?
It is also remarkable that the projection of two experiments by DALTON on aqueous is exactly parallel with the steam line , and further , that the same parallelism maintained by the vapours of liquefied ammoniacal gas and carbonic acid ( by THILORIER ) .
It would be extremely desirable if Dr. FARADAY'S experiments on chlorine and other more condensible gases could be repeated on a large scale so as to determine their position on the chart , and by two or three observations on each to eliminate the constants and H. It is by such experiments and those of M. CAGNIARD DE LA TOUR , made at the other extremity of the scale of heat and pressnre , and likewise by Mr. PERKINS , all of which may be classed under the head of physics , that we may expect to extort from nature some .
her most hidden secrcts , to come in sight of new continents in the world of natural sclence , not dreamt of in philosophy , because removed beyond the bounds of estive .
analogy .
Sucl ] pressnres appear to us great , and certainly dangerous to operate Wlth .
' but in respect to those which exist in nature , and surround us , restrained by internal forces , they can only be considered as infiniteslmal .
Note C.\mdash ; Temperature of Compressed Air .
These changes of temperature are certainly much greater than are said to have been observed by DARWIN , , and others .
Not having access to the account of these experiments , I am unable to ascertain how far they accord with the theory ; but the specific heat of air is so small in comparison to that of the materlals of thermometers are composed that the actual difference of temperature a single condensation or dilatation must be much greater than what is indicated by any tric apparatus .
more effectual way ascertaining this seems to be by continually and quickly repeating the same condensation with diffel.ent portions of air , so that after some by proper , the condensing syringe ought to exhibit the temperature of the at its maximum tension .
If air is a medium we have in XVI .
the means of computing the temperature that ought to be shown by a thermometer placed at the bottom of the syringe .
Thus , being the temperature and tension of the a , ir outside , the tens on corresponding to the load on the eduction valve of the syringe ; then ' , the temperature of the air when condensed .
air ines of the atmospheric railway may perhaps afford the means of testing equation .
Nofe D.\mdash ; To ftnd the Compression that Corre.to a } to sibl This be computed by means of IV .
and XVI .
the is essed so that the mean molecular distance changes from 1 to , th increases from , the increment being By under a constant pressure , let the mean distance change from 1 to the molecular ) ) must be diminished from 1 to , the decrenlent b. The ratio is given to find , which is the amount of compression from unity that makes the ratio between the sensible and latent , or eyolved qfis qfiva , equal to If we put , the equation resolves itself into in the case given .
equation may easily be solved by inspection of a table of square and cube numbers .
is the compression from unity to give the ratio of the seIlsibl e to the latent heat .
No fc of ir .
It is that specific heat of tnercury and water are better determined than that of uny other bodies .
Assuming that the specific heat of liquid mercury is the same as that of its vapour , and that all gases and vapours have the same volume ) specific heat when of pressure and temperature , ecific heat of air in terms of that of water is .
The mean experimental value is , according to the Fren ch chemists , .
Mercury is tlJus the only liquid , so far as is known , whose } ) ecific h is the same as whab ought to be in the state of vapour , if it conforms to the general law .
Water is early three times oreater than steam to be .
Alcohol five times that of its ) .
Ether times , \amp ; c. ; see Note B. This of the specific of mercury with its vapour seems to prove that there little or no rt of the heat required to raise the temperature of the liquid ( bsorbed in a latent form .
This important point in the ) theory .
It arkable that there 1 no instance , so as yet known , of mercury of a volume .
Arsenic , sulphur , phosphorus , and some others combine , and their specific heat in the form of vapour by FREE AND CTLY ELASTIC , IN A STATI OF MOTION .
the theory of gases is the same fractional part of the specific heat of the solid .
This is omewhat confirmatory of the theoretical interpretation of the law of volumes .
The vaporous molecule of mercury is indivisible .
The vaporous molecule of arsenic is divisible into four parts : of sulphur into six parts ; of phosphorus into four parts ; of hydrogen into two parts ; of oxygen into two parts ; of water into three ; of alcohol into five parts ; of sulphurlc ether into seven parts ; sulphuric acid , anhydrous into four parts ; etherine into four , \amp ; c. We may thus predict the heat of pyroxilic spirit to , and of pyroxi ] ether Note .
CLAPEYRON'S Fundamental Position .
The density and tension of a medium expanding according to MARRIOTTE'S law , are represented linearly by the co-ordinates to the common hyperbola CMEL referred to its asymptote AG ; the abscissa AB , \amp ; c. , representing the volume , and the ates , \amp ; c. , the tension .
We have shown that each incremental expansion is made at the expense of the molecular of the medium , so that to maintain the expansion , according to MARRIOTTE'S law , the loss of vis must be tinually made up ; and the amount required to be supplied for any given expansion , as from to , is to the constant original amount as the area CEDB is to 3 .AB , or to the original CB acting through three times the original volume AB ( XIII .
) .
Suppose the medium to expand from to ( against pressure ) without having ts loss of vis viva supplied ; then , according to S 22 , its tension from , or un tie , becomes .
Assuming the ] volume and tension as unity and , we have KH and differential of the asymptotal area CKHB .
To integrate this put , and differentiating gives ; and since 1T , we have \mdash ; area CKHB in terms of ABCN unity .
In this , being made infinite , we have the area of the whole asymptotal space ABCN , which accords with S 1.9 , as the asymptotali 1 area represents the collective force of expansion from the volume to nf nty .
If , during the expansion from , vis were supplied to the medium so as to intain the original quantity unimpaired , the point in the hyperbola would coincide with , the point in the common hyperbola , or MH .
Now , it is evident that : : : : 3 : ; but the preceding integral gave ABCN \mdash ; CKHB , therefore : : CKHB ratio of original vis viva of the medium to the force remaining after expansion from to H. Thus , MH : MK : : original : decrement of vis owing to expansion ; and three times the area KNAS is equal to the asymptotal area on the other side of .
These relations evidently hold good in whatever part of the comc hyperbola the point may be taken .
Suppose the medium is maintained at its original vis while it expands from to , it will exert the mechanical force CEDB , and absorb the vis CEDB , the original quantity in the medium being .CB .
let it expand to without being supplied with ; then , as before , FG and is the proportion of original vis ) expended represented by EFGD , its equivalent mechanical force exerted .
Let it now be compressed from to , the vis communicated to the medium being continually withdrawn .
The amount withdrawn and the force exerted is represented by the area FGHK .
From let the medium be compressed without withdrawing the vis generated until the original tension CB and density AB are regained .
The force of compression and vis lnmunicated to the medium in the last operation is represented by the area CKHB .
For shortness put the area KQDH , CEFKS , and EQF .
It is evident since the molecular vis through CEL is constant and through KQF constant , and .
Also , , or AG .
LF AH .
MK SK .
MK .
But .
and .
In this equation substitute for equal , , and we have .
Thus , the curvilinear area @ , or CEFK , is the excess of the force exerted by the me , dium expandin from to at higher constant temperature , over the force exerted upon the same , compressing it from to at the lower constant temperature .
It is also the excess of the vis viva absorbed in the first part of the process over the given out in the last part .
FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC CULES IN A STATE OF MOT [ ON .
51 This is the interpretation of M. CLAPEyRON'S fundamental position*applied to the hypothetical medium .
M. CLAPEYRON assumes the quantity .
of heat taken the body ( p. 349 , 'TAyLOR'S Memoirs ' ) durmg the ansion from to is necessarily equal to the quantity given to the body during mpression from to , and that from to and to heat is taken from or to the volume of gas , a proportion only of the sensible heat being reduced to .latent form and again thrown out .
Thus , there the anomaly of the force S being exerted or generated without any loss of heat .
M. CLAPEYRON'S vlew is here so much at variance with the vis theory of heat that it seemed proper to enter into a full explanation of the same condition in the hypothetical medium .
The case is very instructive , and throws light on the vis viva theory , which is at the same.time the means of clearing up the anomaly in causation of mechanical force seemlng to be generated without expenditure of heat .
M. CLAPEYRON'S conclusions , so far as gases are concerned , are quite independent of any hypothesis , and seem to be strictly deduced from the of RIOTTE and DALTON and GAY-LUSSAC combined with the relation that has been found to subsist between simultaneous increments of sensible and of latent heat .
It is satisfactory to observe that they agree , so far as they go , with the physical properties of the medium .
Note G.\mdash ; Objection to Theory .
The only difficulty I can discover in the vis theory of heat applies in some measure to the undulatory theory of light .
The ethereal that the undulations is affected by vibrations of the elements of matter , but there is not the least symptom of it cting by its resistance the planetary motions , and yet theory shows that it must permeate through the very substance and heart of all bodies with such quick and subtle power as not in any sensible manner to be affected equilibrium by any part of their motion except what is .
Now , the theory of heat shows that the greatest ordinary velocities of this vlbratory mot on do not much exceed 2000 feet per second , but the velocity of the earth in its orbit is upwards of 50 times this amount .
In .
the first case , if a hot body were isolated from all surrounding matter , the whole of its motion would be withdrawn from it in a very short time by the ethereal medium .
This we can affirm inductively from the laws of the radiation of heat .
In the second case not the slightest resistance 1s made manifest .
The ether only affects and is affected by vibratory lnotion .
Any other kind , however great , it neither affects nor is affected by .
What are we to infer from this incongruity ?
If motion differed in no other point from the rectilinear and rotatory motion of masses of matter , than in the sudden change of direction , plain that if there was no resistance in the one case there could be no res stance the other , and vice .
We are , therefore , compelled to infer that the disturbance ssay on the motive of heat , ' Journ. Polyt translated in ' TAYLOR'S Memoirs , ' vol. 1 , p. 349 .
MR. J. J. WATE STON ON THE PHySICS OF MEDIA COMPOSED OF of the ethereal medium is not caused directly by the motion of material particles as with the grosser media of gases and liquids when affected by the motion of bodies passing through then ] .
Something takes place in the vibratory motion of the elements of matter that does not take place in their collective motlon .
Molecular vibration consists in the struggle , as it were , between the vis insita of molecules and the forces that bind them together .
It seems , therefore , as if the disturbance of the medium which answers to of heat an light were derived the disturbance of the molecular forces , and that when there was no such disturbance there was no resistance .
But the difficulty yet remains of a body moving in a material medium without resistance .
It is ] most inconceivable in the present state of our ] edge of molecular physics .
If it is at all possible ( for there is almost an absurdity involved in asserting that it is possible ) it can only be by means of a persistent or continuous relation of intense mutual organized activity between the ether and the perfectly elastic elements of matter , of which we can as yet have very little conception .
The disturbance of molecular forces that allows the medium to absorb the of vibrating molecules may be likened to the ascent and descent of planetary bodies to and from the sun while revolving in elliptic orbits .
There is a disturbance when the centripetal force on a body increases or diminishes , so that if a body revolved in a circle there is no disturbance , no resistance , no absorption of its vis by the active medium , and if it revolves in an eccentric ellipse there is disturbance , resistaDce , and absorption .
The number of luminous vibrations in a second is , by the undulatory theory , from 458 million million to 727 million million , and the vibrations that cause heat are probably not very different in the velocity their succession .
If a set of molecules thus vibrating in a perfectly cold region took one second to dissipate their molecular vis by radiation , this is sufficient time for so vast a multitude of revolutions in the molecular orbits that the loss of vis in our vibration is probably as infinitesimal as that of the planets during one revolution , and we might conjecture that this infinitesimal ratio was a function of the ratio of the elasticity of the , ether to the molecular velocity of the vibrations , the elasticity of the ether being apparent only as an active centripetal force .
Such a retardation would certainly follow if the velocity of the action of gravitation were not infinite , but there still remains to be suggested the physical condition of a medium that offers no resistance .
Is such an entity possible ?
Note for Heights by the Thermom.etey : tension of the atmospheric medium yaries , as we have seen , in the proportion of the sixth power of the depth below the summit , and the elasticity of steam varies as the sixth power of the ordinate to the line SF on the chart multiplied by the absolute temperature or square of the corresponding abscissa ( see Note B ) .
This FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
53 suggests a method of measuring heights by the thermometer that requires little or no computation .
Let ST on the chart of vapours , which there represents the sixth root of the density of steam at , be also taken to represent the whole height of the atmosphere above a point where the water boils at the temperature of 212 .
Then from , the ordinate to the steam line at , draw parallel to tlJe line of one atmosphere pressure , or rathe it ought to be converging to point where the cord QS produced meets the axis .
It is evident that SQ represents very nearly the height where water boils at .
Now , if such lines are drawn at each degree between 20 and , they will divide Sq into parts that are sensibly equal .
The value of each of these parts depends on the value given to , which , according to our theory , is in feet 318 times t'ne absolute temperature of the air at the station where water boils at the temperature corresponding to the square of the abscissa of the ordinate ST .
The following is the accurate formula by the theory for any vapour of which the constant ( see Note B ) is known:\mdash ; in which is the temperature of the air at the lower station , temperature at which the liquid boils at the lower station , temperature at which the liquid boils at the upper station ( all expressed in degrees on Fahr. scale ) , the first constant of the vapour ( see Note B ) , and the difference of height between the stations feet .
By boiling temperature is meant the temperature at which the tenslon of the vapour is the same as that of the external atmosphere .
Let us apply the formula to the vapour of water , in which is , and let us take an examI ) where is , and ; the value of is feet .
It will be found , by taking other values for and , that this elevation for 1o difference in the boiling point increases about of a foot for each degree that diminishes , and increases exactly 1 foot for every degree that increases , and vlce versed .
Professor FORBES , who has discussed this subject fully in recent paper , finds that his observations indicate a number between 540 and 550 feet .
The accordance is thus satisfactory ; by the formula , 550 feet per 1o is the mean value for , which corresponds with Professor FORBES ' mean ; and what it wants of uniformity is too small to be discovered in practice .
Suppose that we wished to employ the vapour of sulphuric ether for this pose .
It boils at under a pressure of 30 in .
DALTON'S observation on this ether gives a line of vapour which has .
Compute the above equation this value of , and .
The result is , being greater than the former case of steam .
The less this l.atio , the more exact , of course , is this method of estimating heights , and it depends greatly on the value of the constant ( see Note B ) , for the less the inclination of the line of vapour is to the axis the smaller 1 the height that corresponds to a difference 01 ' 1o in the boiling point .
For mercury this is only 248 feet , but the temperature is inconveniently high .
Pure sulphuric ether appears to be the beso adapted , as its boiling temperature is low , and the disadvantage of the great amount of the of elevation for 1o might , perhaps , be compensated for , by employing a very delicate alcohol thermometer , with the divisions of the scale large and extending only from to The need not 7nave access to the air ; the equilibrium of pressure may be indicated by the rising of a thin metallic capsule air-tight and elastic .
Such an instrument would require little more than the heat of the } ) to bring it into action , and perhaps might be made sufficiently delicate to be used as a machine for taking levels and making sections of a country .
Note K.\mdash ; Central Heat .
It is not difficult to compute the temperature that the atmosphere would have if it were supposed to be continued through a shaft to the centre of the earth .
Suppose the force of gravity to diminish with the central radius , which is the case in a homogeneous sphere , the temperature of the air at the centre would be about 29,000o , and the density much greater than that of any known solid .
Heat , if it is motion , cannot be propagated upwards without loss or conducted downwards without gain , any more than can a body when projected upwards retain its original velocity without diminution , or when projected downwards without increase .
The temperature in mines ( according to M. CORDIER ) increases in descending at the rate of 1o to 50 or 60 feet .
Is this the natural condition of vertical equilibrium of molecular vis within the crust of the globe If such were the case some regular be found between the top and bottom temperatures in pillars or lofty buildings if precautions could be taken to prevent horizontal conduction .
Note L.\mdash ; Nebular Hypothesis .
The theory appears to harmonize well with the Nebular Hypothesis of LAPLACE .
The intense activity of the molecules of the Sun 's mass may be viewed as the result of , or to have been originally produced by , its centripetal force while condensing .
The motion generated is not lost , as it is in appearance when inelastic bodies meet each other with equal momenta .
The clashing together of the descending elastic matter folIowed by equal recoil in the opposite direction , and molecular vis is generated .
We see this take place on a minute scale when metals are AND PERFECTLY LASTIC MOLIBCULES A OF MOTION .
hammered , or compressed , or rubbed .
Friction and every other expenditure of mechanical force gives birth to heat or molecular vis , which is dissipated by radiation and conduction .
The observations of Sir JOHN HERSCHEL and Professor FORBES with the actinometer ( Phil. Trans 1842 ) have recently cQupplied a knowledge of the absolute value of the solar radiation before it passes through the atmosphere .
They have found it to amount to actines , each actine being one-millionth of a metre in thickness of ice melted per minute .
This is equal ] .
of ice melted in a mean solar day .
Now , since it is known that ice requires 14 of heat to melt it , and the mechanical value of 1o in water is equal to the weight of the water raised through 673 feet against the force of gravity on the Earth 's surface ( S 25 ) , we have the means of computing exactly the absolute mechanical power of the solar radiation\mdash ; the absolute force thrown out by the Sun in a given time .
There are various ways of reckoning this and obtaining a clear conception of it with reference to different standards .
The fundamental principles are contained in Section 3 , and an example of their application is given in detail in S25 .
The results of four computations are as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
During one year the solar force upon a square foot at the Earth 's mean distance from the Sun is equal to 20 tons raised 20 miles , or to about one ton raised one mile per day , which is equivalent to of a horse-power , according to engineers ' mode of reckoning .
2 .
At the Sun its amount in one yeal .
is equivalent to the descent of a stratum of the Sun 's surface ( and of its mean density ) miles thick through its own breadth .
3 .
If the Sun is supposed to contract uniformly throughout its mass so that its radius becomes miles less in consequence of the general increase of density , the force generated is sufficient to supply the solar radiation for about 9000 years .
4 .
If a mass equal to the Earth descended to the Sun 's surface from its mean distance , it would acquire a velocity of 390 miles per second , and the generated when it strikes the Sun would amount to the force thrown out by the Sun in 45 years .
The density of the Sun being little more than that of water , it is possible that the mere gradual contraction of its bulk , or natural subsidence of the mass , may generate sufficient force to supply the amount of radiation without any diminution of temperature , and it would appeat from t , hs third computation that the decrement of the apparent diameter of the Sun owing to such condensation may not amount to more than of a second in 9000 years .
Note rometric Formula .
This may include the effect of aqueous vapour by the formula in Note B. Let mean dew point , mean temperature of the air at the two stations .
MR. J. J. WATERSTON ON THE SlCS OF MCDIA COMPOSED OF , then is the correct theoretical formula , in which height in feet between the two stations of barometer at lower station .
, of barometer at.higher station brought to the same temperature as B. to Notes B. H. of the , ' On the Physics of Certain Media recently snbmitted to the Society .
Received January 27 , 1846 .
In Note it was shown that the formula of a vapour might be obtained from two experiments on its tension , and in Note , that the function which defines the law of density in vapours is analogous to what defines the law of tension in ascending the atmosphere , thereby enabling us to construct a rule for measuring heights by the thermometer .
It may , perhaps , be useful to add what relates to the law of the tension of mixtures of air and vapour .
In some cases it seems impossible to clear vapours entirely of permanently elastic matter , and it will be allowed to be very desirable , in a practical point of view , that we should ) able to deduce the necessary constants from experiments made upon them in their usual state of commixture .
It will be found , I believe , that this may be accomplished by means of the data afforded by not less than three experiments if the volume occupied by the gas and vapour remains constant , or ifthe proportionate changes in it are capable of being accurately determined .
We do not require to know anything of the quantity of air enclosed with the vapour : this forms one of the three unknown quantities involved in the three equations afforded by the experiments ; the other two the constants and that develop the of density of the pure vapour .
In the accompanying chart ( Plate 2 ) , which is drawn on the same scale as the general chart of vapours given in Note , it may be remarked how the straight lines of vapour are transformed into a high order of hyperbolas when any permanently elastic matter is allowed to contribute its effect of tension .
The mode of laying off the points is simply as follows .
we wish to know the effect that air of of an inch of tension at has upon the chart line of aqueous vapour ; we have From this we obtain the value of , which we employ in the general equation for such , or ordinate AND PERFECTLY MOLECULES IN A OF TJON .
on the chart to the abscissa .
The curve traced out by these coordinates is one of .
a species of hyperbola .
The apex of this hyperbola has its ordinate ( see chart ) equal to the element in the equation , and the corresponding abscissa is equal to at this point which is the zero of the vapour .
It makes and F. As tension of a vapour is excessively small for a considerable range of temperature above its zero point , the curve , hich begins at ti does not sensibly leave the tangent at its vertex , F'E , \mdash ; which is also parallel to the axiQ at the distance it , F , \mdash ; for some dist , ance beyond the point of contact .
It then takes a sudden bend , having the greatest curvature at the point where the tension of the vapour is ] one balf the tension of the air , and ascends along line of vapour it as an asymptote .
This curve answers very well to the general run of the experiments on aqueous vapour at low temperatures , and those of MAGNUSt that have recently appeared in the 14th number of the 'Scientific Memon.s ' correspond with it almost exactly .
Are we then to infer from this coincidence that the general divergence from the straight at low temperatures is the effect of a minute portion of air that clings to the water , in spite of all the precautions taken to prevent it , and that it only becomes sensible when the tension of the vapour , per se , has descended to the same attenuated proportion ; or is the law that is represented by the general equation of Note defective to this trifling extent Although no attempt has yet been successful to give a physical interpretation of the function of the temperature that represents the density of a vapour , yet it must be considered as a circumstance favourable to the possibility of on the theory , that it corresponds so far with several of he laws of gases or like tbem to involve the sixth power of an element of the temperature .
Thus XVI .
( S22 ) it was shown that when a lnedium was compressed the vis viva increased as the mean molecular distance diminished , or , what is the same , that the sixth power of the molecular velocity increased in the same ratio as the density .
This actually enables the condition of a gas in respect to density and temperature , while dilating or being compressed , to be represented on the chart of vapours , and has already been referred to in Note B. The physical demonstration of this peculiarity of function depends ultimately ( as shown in Section ) on the six rectangular directions of space .
It seems highly probable , therefore , that the same primary cause shapes the function in the case of vapours , and we may thus be led to hope that in the liquid condition of bodies their molecules are arranged upon a plan more simple and less interwoven with the essential nature of the molecular forces than might otherwise been anticipated .
In the } ) curve , FCS , the ordinates represent the sixth root of the respective MR. J. .T .
RSTON ON PHYSICS ) OMPOS L OF densities when the ai-r and yapour are in equal proportion at the ordinary pressure of the .
The vaponr that of sulphuret of carbon employed by M. MARX Scient .
Part , which has as its boilin temperature .
With alf its volume filled with air it ssumes the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere inches ) at .
At this point it crosses the line of the constant pressure of one atmosphere ( see Note B ) as be seen on the chart .
It may also deserve to be remarked that the curve crosses this line a much more sloplng direction than the straight line of the pure vapour , and that , consequently , according to what is stated in Note , such a mixture is much better adapted to measurement of heights by the thermometer , inasmuch as 1o represents a much ] of height in the atmosphere when applied to mixtures of air and a vapour , than with the same vapour in its pure state .
We may thus , perhaps , wit'n such mixtures , be enabled to construct an for heights by means of the thermometer which will have all the .
that are anticipated in Note from .
the pure vapour of a volatile liquid with a chart line of density having the smallest possible inclination to the axis .
As an example of this let us take the mixture represented by the upper line of oensity , At emperature 8 and the mercury in the barometer standing at 80 inches , a small quantity of air saturated with sulphuret of carbon is encloserl and at the lower temperature , , the tension of the mixture of air and vapour reduced to ; it is required from these data to determine the height corresponding to a lowering of 1 degree in that tempel.ature which brings the to an equilibrium with the external atmosphere .
We have first to compute by the formula given in Note as follows:\mdash ; ; in which By this we It is .
use of the small arc , , as if it were a straight line .
We have next tc employ the value of in the formula of Note .:\mdash ; In the absolute temperature at the lower of two ions is denoted by , and is the temperature at which the tension of the enclosed air and vapour equilibrates the atmospherlc pressure at the lower station , the same at the upper station being * Magnus .
FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
59 Suppose , , and ; the formula compute gives , which , divided by , gives .
feet as the value of 1o in such an .
instrument .
This amount varies but little , through a considerable range of temperature and pressure .
This value may be obtained by observing the temperature at the bottom and at the summit of a known height , and dividing the elevation in feet between the two stations by the difference .
Neither the law of the vapour nor the ount of air enclosed with it is required .
What if we dismiss the vapour a]together and enclose dry air only ?
It is evident that the line CS will then become parallel to the axis and distant from it , the sixth root of , the density , which is constant .
The element becomes infinitely negative , and , thus simplifying considerably the expression for , which is now converted into T. Let , and , when is a small fraction .
By division we have on this hypothesis , and } , which converts the equation for into T. To express in terms of and , we have , and .
Hence , so long as this fraction is small in comparison to unity , we have the following simple expression for the height in terms of the indi cations of the thermometer:\mdash ; .
This gives the nearly constant value , 53 feet , for each degree of Fahr. thermometer , at moderate elevations and ordinary temperatures .
This is the lowest possible value for difference of temperature that can be obtained .
In ascending through an increment of the height of the atmosphere , we experience one decrement of temperature , and five decrements of density , which , together , make six decrements of tension .
rfhese six decrements of tension must be effected in the enclosed air of the instrument before an equilibrium is ]ished , and as the density is a constant quantity they must be produced by means of a lowering of temperature to the amount of six decrements .
Thus , six decrements of temperature in the instrument correspond to the same differential height as one decrement of temperature in the atmosphere , or six degrees correspond to feet , the differeI ] of height that uses a difference of 1o while in its natural condition of vertical equilibrium .
It appears , therefore , that dry air is in every respect the best in theory for measuring heights with the thermometer by means of such an instrument as is referred to in Note H. The theory upon which its theory rests has been shown to with [ 2 M. GAY-LUSSAC'S observations during his balloon ascent , S 34 , and also with Professor } ' original determination of the nearly constant fference of level in the that corresponds with the same constant difference the boiling point nter .
Suppose , then , we take a small glass vessel , in which there is fixed a delicate .
thera scale .
We heat it to about 100 , and the inside mometric ) tns a being perfectly dry we close it and make it perfec , tly air-tight by means of a thin , finely polished silver capsule .
to corresponds to an altitude of only about 2100 feet , so that for greater elevations or a greater range of the barometer we would require to seal it at a higher temperature , or what amounts to the same thing , partially exhaust the air while fixing the capsule. .
In afterwards this instrument the capsule will be a concave mirror so long as the pressure of the atmosphere exceeds the tension of the enclosed air .
It will .
become a plane reflector they are in equilibrium , and convex when the tenslon exceeds the atmospheric pressure .
Now , the image of an object is so different in these three kinds of reflectors , that I conceive it will be possible to recognise the point of equilibrium with very considerable accuracy , or , perhaps , better by means of an eye-piece adjusted to a certain angle of reflection .
The pl.incipal difficulty in such an instrument would probably be in getting the temperature of the air and of the thermometer to be perfectly the same at the instant of .
M. BREQUET'S metallic spiral thermometer is , perhaps , the best adapted , and would make the apparatus very portable .
But it is the practical artist only who can judge if such an instrument can be made eflective .
The annexed sketch is another form of the apparatus , to be used with a delic te mercurial thermometer that may show the temperature of the atmosphere at the station .
is it air thermometer , with a bead of mercury as index , which , before observing with it , must be blown into the bulb by putting the finger upon the open Clld , The air in , having now the same temperature and density as the atmosphere outside the bead of mercury , is allowed to fall into the stem of the instrument , and FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC MOLECULES IN A STATE OF MOTION .
the reading of the scale marked off .
Heat is then applied to the shut glass bottle , , that encloses , until the capsule , , shows the equlhbrlum ; the course , has the same temperature , and has expanded accordingly agalnst the constant pressure of the external atmosphere ; the reading of ) mercury the , will now show the amount of expansion , and , therefore , the ratio of the constant density of the air enclosed in SS to the density of the atmosphere at the station .
Thus , we ascertain the absolute temperature absolute density of the atmosphere at station from scales with as large a reading as we please .
To obtain the law of tension of a vapour by three experiments made upon at different temperatures when mixed with an unknown of air , let be the three temperatures found by adding 461 to the reading of Fahr , scale , an the corresponding ) sions .
Also , let and represent the two unknown constants of the vapour , and the constant that represents the quantity of the enclosed air , or number of gaseous molecules , which is the same at all temperatures , while the number of vaporous molecules changes with the temperature These expressions mean the number of nolecules in a constant volume , so that the experiments require to be ade with the enclos.ed volume oyer the liquid constant .
The general expression for the obsel.ved tension ls ( 1 ) .
By eliminating from each of the three experiments , we have ( 2 ) .
From the first and second of these , we have ( 3 ) .
From the second and third , we have ( 4 ) .
Diyid.ing ( 3 ) by ( 4 ) , we obtain a known ratio ( 5 ) .
From this we may eliminate by trial and error .
The shortest way of making this computation is , perhaps , the following:\mdash ; Assume any value A for , and substitute it in ( 5 ) , and compute the corresponding value of , which let us denote by N. If we make the proportion , as the diffelential of is to the tial of , so is the difference between and to S , the difference between A and , we have and which oximates nearer to G. Substituting this value in the place of A in the above equation , we obtain the next value S , which call , which approximates still nearer to G. We arrive more quickly at the exact value of by making , and .
Having thus found , we may lay off A as the ordinate to to , and to , then , drawing a curve through these points , the ordinate to it opposite is , which , in this way , may be obtained very exactly .
As an example the following three observations are taken from Professor MAGNUS'S experiments on the elastic force of stean ] , that have recently appeared in the 14th number of the ' Scientific Memoirs .
' Computing the preceding with these data , a few give Then , by ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) , we get , and by ( 2 ) , from the first experiment at the lowest temperature , we obtain the value of , and thence 0.08 , cr part of an atmospbere of permanently elastic matter at Fahr. The line on the chart which answers to the experiments of SOUTHERN and the French Academy has , and It is obvious that one of the experiments ought to be taken at as low a temperature as possible , and that should be computed from its data .
The general formula for vapour , , is easy to compute when the tension for a given is required ; but when the temperature that corresponds to tenslon 1s sought , the eqnation does not admit of direct solution .
The followlng , perhaps , the sinlplest method of the difficulties .
It is founded on the ) roperty of the tangent to the curve of constant pressure , alluded to in Note B. AND ]LASTTC MOULES T The length of that portion of it intercepted between the point of contact and the axis of the curve , is equal to three times the of the The tension iven being , and the corresponding absolute temperature being required , assume any absolute temperature as near to as may be gue sed roughly ; then , by the formula for the , given vapour , , compute .
The value of may then be found directly , with all necessary precision , by the following equation : From this value of subtract 461 , and we have the temperature required on Fahr. scale that corresponds to the elastic force J. J. WATERSTON .
December 15 , 1845 .
OF AND VAPOURS .
Received ebruary 1 , 1846 .
Having found the following Table useful to refer to while the subject of gases and vapours , I ha.ve been led to hope that it might be made available , so far as it goes , in shortening the labour of drawing up a complete view of their physical constants .
That such a condensed view of their physical character and constitution is a desideratum will probably be generally admitted , and principally with reference to theoretical chemistry does it seem to be of importance to have their molecular characteristics placed before the eye in a clear and concise manner .
The tables of this description that are usually inserted in chemical treatises do not , perhaps , give to the arithmetic of volumes all the clearness that it is susceptible of .
is a consequence of employing the chemical equivalent or lowest combining proportion as the unit , whether or not it happens to correspond with the specific gravity of the gas , and it is generally either half this ratio or , as in the case of sulphur , of phosphorus , and of arsenic , even a smaller fraction of it .
Thus we have the Qymbol for water .
In Dr. TURNER'S 'Chemistry ' its constitution is thus defined : 1 , or one equivalent of hydrogen , , or one equivalent of oxygen , the equivalent of water ; and , by volume , 100 of hydrogen combines with 50 of oxygen to form 100 of steam .
If we take 16 as the equivalent of oxygen , which corresponds with its specific gravity , then HO : expresses distinctly the constitution of steam both by weight and volume .
Another ob.jectionable point may sometimes be remarked though it has now almost disappeared , the combining ratio by volume is inserted before aoy determination of the fact has been made : thus ON Dr. TURNER defines the peroxide of hydrogen , 100 volumes , to consist of 100 xygen hydrogen , whereas , since vapour has never been weighed , it ihed as likely to consist of 50 volumes of each ; both gases ulllte with others severa instances in half , so that , until the experiment has been made , all that can be stated is that 17 by weight of the peroxide consists of 1 hydrogen oxygell .
As soon we have ascertained the space occupied by the 17 of the peroxide in comparison to the ] of the hydrogen we state its composition by volume , but it is surely confusing the subject of volumes altogether to infer this from the combining yeights alone .
In this the specific gravity of a simple gas in terms of hydrogen unity is taken as the value of its symbol ( Col. 3 , Part I and when this is inserted in parenthese ( as from Nos. 10 to 20 ) , it represents the value that has been assigned to the symbolical letter of the element in the compounds that follow , and indicates that it has not as yet been weighed in the simple vapour .
Thus the value of is 12 , of \amp ; c. , throughout the Table wherever these letters occnr , and at the side these numbers taken as unity in denoting the several with which they have been found to combine in a single volume of compound gases and vapours .
Opposite hydrogen , for example , we see numbers from up to 16 , which informs us that from a volume up to 16 volumes of this gas enters into one volume of its compounds , and the same wibh regard to the others .
These in some degl.ee the molecular capabilities of the element .
They are that have been taken from vapours that have actually been weighed as well as analysed .
A proportion of them are of recent determination , and the original details ) experiments by DUMAS , , REGNAULT , LAURENT , and BINEAIJ are to be found for the most part in the ' Annals de Chimie ' ; ) reference to the and page of this invaluable work is given in parentheses after the name of the yapour , and letter ( m ) is a reference to MITSCHERLICH'S 'Chemistry , ' where several specific gravities of vapour are given that are not to be found elsewhere .
In the table of binary compounds a column is occupied with the chemical constitution of a single volume of each in terms of volumes of its elementary components .
Thus , nitric acid is represented by , which ineans that one volume of nitric acid vapour is composed of volumes oxygen united to one volume and where a volume has not been weighed , although its constitution by weight is known , the symbol is within parentheses , thus In the ternary and organic compounds the simple constitution of a is given in the firs place , as with the binary , and in the next column the most probable arrangement of the constituents , when there is any ground for making a hypothesis .
Thus we have oxalic ether , No. 114 , evidently composed of one volume oxalic acid and one volume of sulphuric ether condensed into one volume .
This also allows us infer with great probability the specific gravity of oxalic acid vapour .
The next is nitrous ether , No. 115 , which is quite a similar compound in the liquid form , but it FREE AND PERFECTLY ELASTIC ] ] IN A STATE MOTION .
65 will be remarked that in the act of rising into vapour it is decomposed , and one volume in the case of oxalic ether vapour is two volumes in the case of nitrous ether .
Several other examples of this kind will be found .
I have already referred to such facts as being favourable to the hypothesis of media which attributes a mechanical origin to the law of volumes , and have likewise referred to the remarkable circumstance that compounds which thus disunite in the act of vaporization nevertheless obey the general law of vapours ( see Note B ) .
As it seems , from the nature of the function that expresses this law , that a mechanical origin may be found for it also , the investigation of the subject might , perhaps , be made easier if the chart lines of vapour were determined for mixtures of pure alcohol and water in all proportions , and also for mixtures of alcohol and ether .
We should then , perhaps , discover the law of variation of the two constants and of the chart line , and this might provide us wit } a new condition or effect of primary cause pointing to its origin from a new ground .
The two last columns contain the stants G and , referred to in Note B. ; where there are three places of decimals the numbers are nearly exact , when two only they are to be considered approximate .
Column No. 1 contains the temperature on Fahrenheit scale at which the vapour in contact with its generating solid or liquid equilibrates a pressure of 30 inches of mercury .
Column No. 2 contains the specific gravity of the body in its usual liquid or solid form .
Column No. 3 contains , as before mentioned , the specific gravity of the body in its gaseous form in terms of hydrogen unity .
It expresses the weight of a molecule of the hypothetical medium that answers to the gas in its physical relations .
Column No. 4 contains the inverse of the spec.ific heat of the body in its usual liquid , solid , or gaseous form , The numbers are found by dividing the constant by the specific heat .
This constant is the product of the specific heat of air by its specific gravity in terms of hydrogen unity , and to the same product of all gases that conform to the law of equal volumes having the same specific heat .
It is wise the product of the specific heat of mercury in its liquid form by the specific gravity of its vapour ( Note E ) .
In other elementary bodies this product is a simple multiple of the same constant .
In compounds the same product is also in most cases a simple multiple of the same constant .
On the vis theory of heat the numbers in this column probably show the mean weight of the component parts of the gaseous molecule that have an independent motion when the body is in the liquid or solid form .
Thus , No. 33 , arsenious acid : the specific gravity of the vapour is 200 times that of hydrogen ; but its specific heat in the solid form is 8 times what it is in the state of vapour , if in this form it obeyed the law of specific heat of gases .
Hence 25 is the number opposite in this column , which , since it goes 8 times in 200 , shows that the consists of about 8 parts , each of which has an independent MR. J. J. WATERSTON ON SICS OF MEDIA COMPOSED OF motion .
We see further that expresses the constitution of one volume of this acid , and referring to As , No. 7 , we find that its specific heat in the solid form is nearly 4 times greater than it ought to be in the vapour .
The probable general inference is that such moleculet consist of several parts , more or less free to move independently of each other , and that when they escape from the bonds of liquid cohesion and become free projectiles , these parts can no longer assume of their own , but are in subjection to the impressed condition of their common centre of gravity .
The great question in this department is , Do such compound bodies which have so great a specific heat in the solid form have it at once reduced in so vast a proportion when raised to .
This interesting point , as remarked at length in Note , has yet to be determined by an experiment made on the specific heat of sulphuric ether vapour , as being the most accessible , which , if these views are correct , to be 0Jlly about of the specific heat of the liquid .
Column No. 5 contains the quotient of the gaseous specific gravity by the specific gravity of the liquid or solid , and represents the relative size of the molecules .
The subject of atomic volume has recently been the subject of interesting discussion by M. KolT ( ' Ann. de Chim vol. 75 , 1840 , p. 406 ) , and , doubtless , will increase in importance as science advances .
To the@e physical characteristics of gases it would be well if we could add the temperature of liquefaction , the latent heat of liquefaction , or the measure of the solid polar cohesion of molecules according to the ) theory , the differential of expansion through a of temperature , and the latent heat of vapours or measure of liquid molecular cohesion .
, 1845 .
J. J. WATERSTON .
This paper bein the last in connection with the vis theory of gases that the writer is likely to have an opportunity of submitting to the Society , he begs , in taking leave of the subject , to express a hope that , the nature of the fundamental hypothesis is likely to be repulsive to mathematicians , they will not reject it without a fair trial .
The principle of the conservation of vis involves the indestructibility of force , and is a necessary consequence of the quality of perfect elasticity or eaction in the ultimate elements of matter : if this last is a universal the first must also be of universal effect , and , as it does not admit of any dimmutionl of force in nature , we may question whether , in such intense chemical action as the phenomena of combustion and explosion manifest , the sudden evolution of force is not merely an exhibition of its transference from one form of elastic matter to other .
Are not the properties of aeriform fluids and of the medium of light glarlng proofs of the widely spread existence of this quality of perfect elasticity , whatever may be FREE AND ]]iRFECTLY ELASTIC IN A STATE MOTION .
67 its essential mode of reaction ; and do not they even demand of us a ready assent to its all-prevailing influence in the phenomena of Nature ?
Although the utmost caution in adopting any hypothesis is the proper accompan- meant of a sober spirit of inquiry , it does not appear inconsistent with such a spirit to advocate the trial of these principles as a foundation for mathematical research in the several departments of molecular physics .
It is the matured conviction of the writer that upon such tion we shall have to build if we are destined ever become acquainted with the secret mechanism of Nature .
Would that his feeble voice could call attention to the subject , could direct upon it some portion of the vast mathematical talent that this country can now , more than at any former period , boast of .
J. J. W. APPENDIX I. EXTRACT from the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( vol. 5 , p. 604\mdash ; March 5 , 1846 ) .
On the Physics of are composed of free and perfectly elastic Molecules in of Motion .
By J. J. WATERSON ( sic ) , .
Communicated by BEAUFORT , , F.R.S. memoir the enunciation of a new theory of heat , capable of explaining the of its radiation and polarization , and the elasticity of various bodies , on the hypotbesis of a medium consisting of a vast multitude of of nnatter endowed with perfect elasticity , and enclosed in elastic walls , but moving in all directions within that space , with perfect freedom , and in every possible direction .
In the course of these motions , the particles must be supposed to encounter one another in every possible manner , during an interval of time so small as to aIlow of their being considered infinitesimal in respect to any sensible period ; still , however , preserving the molecular vis viva constant and undiminished .
The author then enters into extensive analytical investigations ; first , of the conditions that determine the equilibrium of such a homogeneous medium as is implied by the hypothesis , and of the laws of its elasticity ; secondly , of the physical relations of media that differ each other in the specific weight of their molecules ; thirdly , of he phenomena that attend the condensing and dilating of media , and of the value of their molecular vis viva ; fourthly , of the resistance of media to a moving surface ; fifthly , of the vertical equilibrium of a medium surrounding a lanet constituting its atmosphere ; and lastly , of the velocity with which lmpulses are transmitted through a medium so constituted .
In an Appendix , the author enters into a full explanation of a table of gases and vapours , drawn up with reference to the subjects discussed in his paper .
FREE AND ELASTIC IN A STATE OF MOTION .
EXTRACT from the Report of the 21st Meeting of the British Association , Ipswich , .
( Transactions of the Sections , p. 6 .
) On Theory of .
By J. J. WATERSTON , THE author deduces the properties of gases , with respect to heat and elasticity , from a peculiar form of the theory which regards heat as consisting in small but rapid motions of the ) artides of matter .
He conceives that the atoms of a gas , being perfectly elastic , are in continual motion in all directions , being restrained within a limited space by their collisions with each other , and with the particles of surrounding bodies .
The vis of those motions in a given portion of gas constitutes the quantity of heat contained in it .
He shows that the result of this state of motion must be to give the gas an elasticity proportional to the mean square of the velocity of the molecular motions , and to the total mass of the atoms contained in unity of bulk ; that is to say , to the density of the medium .
This elasticity , in a given gas , is the measure of temperature .
Equilibrium of pressure and heat between two gases takes place when the number of atoms in unity of volume is equal , and the vis of each atom equal .
Temperature , therefore , in all gases , is proportional to the mass of one atom multiplied by the mean square of the velocity of the molecular motions , being measured from an absolute zero 49 below the zero of Fahrenheit 's thermometer .
If a gas be compressed , the mechanical power expended in the compression is transferred to the molecules of the gas , increasing their vis ; and conversely , when the gas expands , the mechanical power given out during the expansion is obtained at the expense of the vis of the atoms .
This principle explains the variations of temperature produced by the expansion and condensation of gases\mdash ; the laws of their specific heat under different circumstances , and of the velocity of sound in them .
The fall of temperature found on ascending in the atmosphere , if not disturbed by radiation and other causes , would correspond with the vis necessary to raise the atoms through the given height .
The author shows that the velocity with which gases diffuse themselves is proportional to that possessed by their atoms according to his hypothesis .

