1872 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
95 the upper part of the platysma : he has also been able to show that the abdominal pectoral is not part of the pectoralis minor .
By dissecting a large number of species , the author has been able to correct a number of errors in the hitherto-published records of the myology of the Cheiroptera\#151 ; such as the origin of the fourth pectoral , the insertion of the latissimus dorsi , the arrangement of the forearm-muscles , \amp ; c. Although the general plan of the muscular system is the same in all the species , yet there are very many suggestive varieties ; and from a comparison of their muscles , it would seem that each of the four great groups of Bats is characterized by a slightly different arrangement of muscles .
The author has , for purposes of brevity , carefully abstained from adding any thing of theoretical deduction to this paper , which he has endeavoured to confine to a simple statement of anatomical facts .
III .
" Notice of further Researches on the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.^ By Dr. W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , in a Letter to Dr. Sharpey , Sec. R.S. Received November 17,1871 .
Owens College , Manchester , Nor .
16 , 1871 .
My dear Dr. Sharpey , \#151 ; Since I read my last communication to the Boyal Society on the organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures I have done a large amount of work , having cut between two and three hundred new sections and with most satisfactory results .
I have obtained a series of specimens almost completing the life-history of one plant from Burntisland , beginning with the tips of the smallest twigs and ending with the large stems .
The former are mere aggregations of parenchyma with a central bundle of barred vessels mixed with a small amount of primitive cell-tissue .
As the twig grew the leaves assumed definite form , and the central vascular bundle opened out at its central part , so as to form a cylinder , the interior of which was occupied by parenchyma .
This cylinder grew rapidly , the number of its vessels steadily increasing ; but they were all equally arranged as in , what I have termed , the medullary vascular cylinder , i. e. not in radiating series .
We thus obtain the origin of that remarkable cylinder , and see that it is the expanded homologue of the central vascular bundles of the living Lycopods .
Whilst these processes were in progress the cortical portion became differentiated into layers , and the parenchymatous cells of the pith continued to multiply , so as to occupy the expanding interior of the vascular cylinder .
After attaining a certain size , through the above processes , a new element of growth appeared ; an exogenous addition was made to the exterior of the cylinder , also consisting of barred vessels , but these are arranged in the radiating series described in my last memoir .
This series continued to grow until it attained to considerable dimensions ; but the entire vascular system always remains small , compared with the diameter of the stem , the chief bulk of which consists of On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
[ Jan. 11 , an enormously thick bark .
The structure just descibed is that of a true example of the genus Diploxylon of Corda .
But I have got abundance of specimens with leaves on the exterior of the bark , demonstrating that the plant is a true Lomatophloios , thus indicating the correctness of my supposition , advanced in my last memoir , that sooner or later the genus Diploxylon would have to be abandoned .
^ \#166 ; As if to place beyond doubt the accuracy of these interpretations , I have now got magnificent specimens , apparently representative of a cambium layer , in which the half-grown vessels and the imperfectly formed medullary rays are exquisitely clear .
In addition to these discoveries I have obtained a Lepidostrobus , which I have no doubt is the fruit of the above plant .
It is provided with both microspores and macrospores , the exteriors of the latter being curiously furnished with numerous caudate prolongations , causing them to resemble some of the fossil Xanthidia of the chalk .
I have further obtained , both from Lancashire and Burntisland , beautiful stems of another type , and which I have no doubt belong to phyllites .
These began to grow , as before , with a central vascular bundle surrounded by a cylinder of parenchyma , but the transverse section of the bundle soon became triquetrous instead of circular .
This , it may be remembered , is the characteristic of the corresponding bundle of the strobilus which I have just described in the * Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , ' under the name Dawsoni , and which I referred to Asterophyllites .
This central triangular axis does not expand or become^converted into a hollow cylinder ; but vessels are at once added to each of its three sides , exogenously , and in radiating series , until it becomes converted into a cylindrical woody axis .
I have specimens showing the nodes and internodes , leaving little , if any , room to doubt the close affinity between the plant in question and the verticillate-leaved Asterophyllites .
The details of these discoveries , along with those respecting a most remarkable series of Lycopodiaceous plants , to which I have given the name of Dictyoxylon , but which name will have to be abandoned for the late Mr. Gourlie 's name of Lyginodendron , will be laid before the Royal Society with as little delay as possible .
I may observe that the plants last referred to have developed , so far as type is concerned , in a way very similar to that of the Lomatophloios , allowance being made for generic and specific peculiarities .
I am , my dear Sir , Very sincerely yours , W. C. Williamson .
I ought not to close this letter without acknowledging the indefatigable energy of G. Grieve , Esq. , of Burntisland , who has supplied me with a constant stream of specimens , upon which I have been able to operate , thus rendering an admirable service to the cause of palseophytology .

