564 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Echinodermata.\#151 ; By Edgar A. , F.Z.S. ( Plate LI .
, figs. 1-3 .
) The collection of Sea-urchins and Starfishes from the island of Podriguez , although comprising but few species , contains some of considerable interest , amono which may he mentioned a very remarkable new two apparently undescribed species of Ophiocoma , and the fine described by Dr. Peters from Mozambique .
The rest of the forms are well-known inhabitants of the Indian Ocean , certain of them being also common in the Pacific .
Crinoida .
Comatula indie a. ( Plate LI .
, figs. 3-3b .
) Ann. and Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 406 .
Pays 30 ; dorsal disk , small , convex , subpentagonal , sculptured with little contiguous and well-defined pits which are the sockets of the cirri ; these are about 45 in number ; radial joints two , the axillary without a syzygium ; between this and the next bifurcation are two articulations ; after two more joints the two outermost arms bifurcate ; none of the brachial axillaries with a syzygium ; each third segment above an axillary has a syzygium , and on the arms the next joints with syzygia are at very unequal distances , the most proximate being separated by as many as 20 joints , but usually by about 14 ; then nearer the extremity of the rays , they are rather closer together , the interlying joints varying in number from 6 to 10 .
The second pinnulae are very long and composed of much elongated joints .
The colour of the specimen is pale purplish brown , with the sutures of the ray-articulations blackish brown .
Diameter of disk 6 mill .
, length of rays about 6 inches ( 153 mi Him .
) .
The only example of this interesting species was collected by Mr. Slater .
Unfortunately it is imperfect , all the dorsal cirri being wanting.* The remarkable elongate second pinnulae ( 17 mill , in length ) are situated on the first and second segments above those joints which always have a syzygium , and which are the third joints above the last brachial axillaries , or in other words , they rest upon the fourth and fifth joints above these axillaries .
They consist of about 17 joints , * The figured dorsal cirrus was found among debris at the bottom of the bottle containing the Comatula , but it is not absolutely certain that it belongs to the present species , although the evidence points to that conclusion .
ECHINODERMATA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
which are elongate , cylindrical , those at the middle being the longest , and the two or three basal ones the shortest .
In the short diagnosis given in the " Annals and Magazine of Natural History , " May 1876 , p. 406 , by an oversight it is stated that " the two innermost arms bifurcate ; " it should be outermost or exterior .
Ophiuroida .
OpMomastix venosa .
Peters , Wiegm .
Arch. Naturgescli .
, 1852 , p. 83 ; Von Martens , in Yon der Hecken 's Heisen in Ost-Afrika , p. 130 ; Lyman , Opliiuridae , p. 92 .
Three fine examples of this remarkable species were collected by Mr. Gulliver .
It has also been previously found at Mozambique and Zanzibar .
Ophiocomaerinaceus .
Muller and Troschel , System der Asteriden , p. 98 ; Hujardin and Hupe , Eehi-noderm.es , p. 260 ; Liitken , Additamenta ad Hist. Ophiurid , p. 164 ; Yon Martens , in Yon der Hecken 's Heisen in Ost-Afrika , III .
, p. 129 ; Lyman , Opliiuridae , p. 83 .
Seven specimens were obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
This species has a wide geographical range , having been met with in the Led Sea , at Mozambique , Zanzibar , Natal , Seychelles , Mauritius , Sandwich Islands , Kingsmills and Society Islands .
Ophiocoma variegata .
( Plate LI .
, figs. 2-2d .
) Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , vol. xviii .
, p. 39 .
Disk circular , finely granulated above and beneath ; oral shields rather longer than broad , slightly octangular , with the sides rectilinear ; adoral shields narrow , extending along the lateral margins of the orals ; three mouth-papilla ) on each side of each oral angle , the outermost being the largest and somewhat squarish ; abo\e the teeth at the apex of the angle is an irregular cluster of about 12 smaller papillae ; teeth four , strong , arcuate at the tips .
Arms rather stout , about four times as long as the diameter of the disk ; upper plates transversely narrowly oval , with the outer margin faintly angulated in the centre , about twice as broad as long ; lower plates squarish , the aboral angles rounded , the side margins excavated ; arm-spines four , subequal , the uppermost a trifle the shortest and stout and the lowest bat one a little the longest , about as long as the width of the dorsal arm-plates ( the tenth ) ; ambu-lacral scales two in number to the extremity of the arms , short and compressed .
Colour of a specimen in alcohol:\#151 ; disk above and beneath uniformly purplish brown ; upper arm-plates dirty brown , at intervals varied with three or four contiguous pale ones , wrhicli are marked with the dark outline of a subquadrate figure , particularly observable towards the outer ends of the arms ; lower arm-plates pale , blotched with dirty brown , especially towards the outer extremity of the rays .
arm spines of a uniform colour , but lighter than the upper arm-plates ; oral shields pale , mottled with dirty brown .
Diameter of disk 38 mill .
, length of rays 105 ; width of broadest upper arm-plates 4 .
The nearest ally of this species is O. , Lamarck , from which it differs in coloration , form of the arm-shields , oral shields and the brachial spines The dark subquadrate outline on the pale upper arm-plates is very characteristic as also is the dirty brownish mottling on the oral and lower brachial shields .
Ophiocoma ( Plate LI .
, figs. 1-lf .
) Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , vol. xviii .
, p. 40 .
Disk sub-circular , flat above , minutely granulated above and beneath ; oral shields heart-shaped , broader than long ; adoral plates small , crescentiform , bordering the sides of the orals ; three or four mouth-papillae on each side of an oral angle , and a group of about twelve at the apex ; teeth four , the two intermediate ones larger than the two exterior .
Arms a trifle more than three times as long as the diameter of the disk ; upper plates transversely oval , about twice as broad as long ; lower plates ( twelfth from the base ) a little longer than broad ; aboral margins arched and a little pointed in the middle , lateral edges rather deeply concave ; oral margins somewhat convergent^ sloping and interrupted by the outer margin of the adjacent preceding plate ; tentacle-scales two , short , and compressed ; brachial spines short , four ( sometimes five on a few plates just beyond the disk ) , the two upper ones shorter than the others , broad and flattened ; the two inferior ones ( of which the second or upper is rather the larger ) are slightly conical , and not so long as the width of the broadest dorsal arm-shield .
Colour of a specimen in alcohol:\#151 ; disk dirty white , irregularly mottled with green above and beneath ; arms of the same colour as the disk , with a narrow green line above , more or less distinct , down the centre ; lower shields , ambulacral scales ( and two lower series of arm-spines for the most part ) uniformly dirty white , and the two upper series of spines ornamented with one or two narrow greenish rings and dots ; oral shields spotted with green .
Diameter of disk 17 millim. ; length of rays 54 .
This species is well distinguished by its peculiarity of colouring and the character of the short brachial spines .
Asteroida .
Scytaster variolcctus , Retzius .
A single fine large specimen collected by Mr. Slater .
Other localities where this species has been met with are the Red Sea , Reunion , Mauritius , Zanzibar , Bourbon .
ECH1N0DERMATA.\#151 ; E. A. SMITH .
Linckiamultifora , Lamarck .
All four examples collected by Mr. Gulliver have five rays in different stages of development .
This common starfish also inhabits the Led Sea , the shores of Mozambique , Reunion , Bourbon , Seychelles , Mauritius , New Caledonia , and the Sandwich Islands .
Echinoida .
JPhyllacamthus imperia Lamarck .
Of this species a fine large example with the ends of the primary spines well fluted , was collected by Mr. Gulliver .
This species is also recorded from the Bed Sea , Zanzibar , Aru and Molucca Islands , Sulu Sea , New Holland and Tonga .
Hipponoe variegata , Leske , The single specimen of this polymorphous and widely-distributed species is of a depressed form , roundly pentagonal , of a brownish colour , and clothed with white spines .
It was collected by Mr. Gulliver .
This species appears to be found in all parts of the Indian Ocean , at Zanzibar , Mauritius , Seychelles , Nicobar Islands , in the Bed Sea , the Pacific , and at the Philippines , Moluccas , Piji Islands , \amp ; c. Heterocentrotus mammillatus , Klein .
There are two varieties of this most variable sea-urchin brought home from Rodriguez , one with pale brown spines with dark tips and one or more pale rings , and the other with the primaries of a rich chocolate their entire length , and also having pale annulations near the extremities .
Mr. Gulliver reports that this species is " very abundant .
" The geographical range of this species is like that of the preceding .
Echinometra lucunt , Leske .
Of this extremely variable species two varieties were met with at Rodriguez ; one with almost uniformly violet spines , but palish towards the base , and the other with light greenish-olive spines .
The geographical range of this species extends over the Red Sea , Indian Ocean , Chinese and Japanese Seas , and several parts of the Pacific .
JEchinoneu8 cyclos , Leske .
A single example of this species , about an inch in length , was collected by Mr Slater .
Other localities for the species are Mozambique , Zanzibar , Reunion , Bourbon , Australia , Amboina , Flores , Manila , Hood 's Island , and the Kingsmills Islands .
Explanation of Plate LI .
( Figs. I to 3 ) .
Fig. 1 .
Ophicoma brevispinosa , enlarged view of upper side , la .
" " " " of lower side .
16 .
" " " " of an oral shield .
1 c. " " " " of the madreporic shield .
ld .
" " " " of two upper arm-plates .
le .
" , , " " of a lower arm-plate .
1/ .
" " " " of an arm-segment ( seen from the exterior side and showing the relative length of the spines ) .
2 .
Ophicoma variegata view of upper side , natural size .
2ci .
" " " lower side " 26 .
" " enlarged view of an oral angle .
2c .
" " " of a lower arm-plate and ambulacral papillse .
2d .
" " " of an arm-segment ( seen from the exterior side and showing the relative size of the spines ) .
3 .
Comatula indica , enlarged view of the disk and a portion of the rays showing the manner of furcation . ? ? .
" " of a dorsal cirrus ( probably belonging to this species ) . ? ? .
" " lateral view of an outer arm , showing the position and form of the pinnulse .
Trans , of Venus Exped .
Rodriguez .
Zoology PL LI .
C^Berjeaju .
del.et 11th .
Mollusca et Echmodermata .
Mmtern .
Ero* imp .

