III .
" On the Action of Nitric Acid and of Binoxide of Manganese and Sulphuric Acid on the Organic Bases .
" By A. MATTHIESSEN , Ph. D. Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 3 , 1859 .
In the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( vol. ix .
p. 118 ) , I stated that by the action of nitrous acid on aniline I had obtained ammonia and nitrophenasic acid ; since then I have acted on several other of the organic bases with the same reagent , as well as with nitric acid , and with binoxide of manganese and sulphuric acid ; and I will now shortly enumerate the experiments .
1 .
Action of Nitrous Acid on Amylaniline .
The dilute solution of the nitrate of amylaniline was acted on by nitrous acid at 100 ?
C. for 12 hours .
Amylaniline and ammonia were obtained , but in quantities too small to be quantitatively determined .
2 .
Action of Nitric Acid on Almylaniline .
Amylaniline was boiled with dilute nitric acid ( 1 part acid to 2 of water ) until the reaction began , which was immediately stopped by adding cold water to the solution .
This was filtered when cold from the nitrophenasic acid , and after potash had been added , it was again filtered to separate any undecomposed amylaniline .
The filtrate was distilled , the distillate redistilled per ascensum into hydrochloric acid , and the acid solution evaporated to dryness .
The residue was then extracted with absolute alcohol , and the filtrate evaporated to dryness .
This operation was repeated four or five times .
A platinum-salt* made with the chloride , which was soluble in absolute alcohol , gave 33 55 per cent. platinum .
The chloroplatinate of amylamine requires 33'66 per cent. The platinum-salt of that chloride which was insoluble in absolute alcohol gave 43'9 per cent. platinum .
The chloroplatinate of ammonia requires 44*2 per cent. The above reaction may be explained as follows : C12I , }5 Cl Hil Clo Hl N+H 02+ NO , 110= H N+C12 H 02 + NO HO H j and CIO Hl ) HHN+ H20+ NO , HO=H } N+ C10 H1202+ NO5 110 .
1J HJ The free nitric acid present converts the phenylic alcohol into nitrophenasic acid , and the amylic alcohol into nitrite of amyl .
3 .
Action of Nitric Acid on Ethylaniline .
Ethylaniline was treated in the same manner as amylaniline .
The platinum-salt of the chloride which was soluble in absolute alcohol gave in two experiments 39'6 and 39'5 per cent. platinum .
The percentage of platinum in chloroplatinate of ethylamine is 39'3 .
The platinum-salt of the chloride which was insoluble in absolute alcohol gave 44 per cent. platinum , which agrees with the number required for the chloroplatinate of ammonia .
4 .
Action of Nitric Acid on Diethylaniline .
Diethylaniline was treated with dilute nitric acid ( I part of acid to 4 of water ) , and heated till the temperature reached 54 ?
C. , when , on being left to itself , it soon became turbid , and the temperature rose about 100 C. After a while the solution cleared itself again , but remained very dark .
When quite cold , it was filtered from the nitrophenasic acid , and the filtrate was treated in the same manner as described in Experiment 2 .
The solution of the chlorides ( 5-6 grms. were obtained from about 50 of diethylaniline ) , which were soluble in absolute alcohol , was partially precipitated with bichloride of platinum ( precipitate No. 1 ) ; then another portion was precipitated , which was not used ; after this , more bichloride was added ( precipitate No. 2 ) ; and lastly , an excess of bichloride was added ( precipitate No. 3 ) .
The platinum found in the three precipitates was No. 1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
39'2 per cent. 35'5 per cent. 35'4 per cent. The chloroplatinate of ethylamine contains 39'3 per cent. , and of diethylamine 35'3 per cent. platinum .
A platinum-salt made with chloride insoluble in absolute alcohol , gave 44'2 per cent. platinum , which is exactly the amount contained in the chloroplatinate of ammonia .
The reaction was as follows : C12IH5 C,4 H5 C , Ha N+ H,0 , + NO , IIO= C , II N+ C , , C , 0 , + NO , HO ; CH , NHN+20-NOHONH5 N+C5 HO02+NOsHO ; C4 115 CHJ C4 IHI N +H , ,O2+NOHO= H1 N+ QC H0 +N5 HO ; and Co HHH N+H1122+NOHO=H 1 N+C4 H , 02+NO , O. HJ HJ As in the case of amylaniline , the phenylic alcohol and the alcohol are converted into nitrophenasic acid and nitrite of ethyl ; the ammonia being in both cases partially oxidized .
5 .
Action of Binoxide of Manganese and Sulphuric Acid on Aniline .
Aniline was dissolved in an excess of dilute sulphuric acid ( 1 part of acid to 6 of water ) and heated to boiling , when a small quantity of binoxide of manganese was added .
The reaction was allowed to continue for 3 or 4 minutes , and it was stopped by .
cooling the flask in water .
Potash was then added , and the solution filtered .
The filtrate was distilled as described in experiment 2 , and the distillate evaporated to dryness with hydrochloric acid , and extracted with absolute alcohol , to dissolve any chloride of aniline present .
A platinum-salt made from the chloride , insoluble in absolute alcohol , gave 44'0 per cent. platinum , which corresponds to the platinum in the chloroplatinate of ammonia .
6 .
Action of Binoxide of Manganese and Sulphuric Acid on Diethylaniline .
Diethylaniline was treated in the same manner as aniline , but only for about one minute .
Potash was added , &amp;c. , as in the foregoing experiment .
The platinum-salt partially precipitated , as in Experiment 4 , from the chloride soluble in absolute alcohol , gave : Precipitate No. 1 .
Precipitate No. 2 .
37'6 per cent. 35'4 per cent. platinum .
No. 1 appears to be only a mixture of the chloroplatinates of ethylamine and diethylamine ; the quantity of salt first precipitated being too small to be properly recrystallized ( on account of former experiments showing that the quantity of ethylamine present was very small ) .
No. 2 corresponds with diethylamine , and of this salt there was a large quantity , so that it was recrystallized twice .
A platinum-salt made from the chloride insoluble in absolute alcohol ( of which there was only a very small quantity ) , gave 44'3 per cent. platinum , which is almost the same as the amount in chloroplatinate of ammonia .
No phenylic alcohol was found nor any of its compounds ; and according to an experiment of Long ( not yet published ) , on the oxidation of phenylic alcohol , that chemist always , excepting when he used spongy platinum , obtained a resinous mass .
From the above experiments , it appears that by the action of nitrous acid , nitric acid , binoxide of manganese and sulphuric acid , permanganate of potash* , potasht , and in some cases by the presence of acids alone ( as sulphuric or hydrochloric ) , on the organic bases in the presence of water , water only is decomposed in the first stage of the reaction ; and the fact that the radicals contained in the bases are replaced by hydrogen by degrees , makes it plausible that by these means we may be able to determine the constitution of the natural organic bases .
I am now experimenting with narcotine , and to all appearance , I shall succeed in determining its constitution .
In conclusion , I may here be allowed to thank Dr. Holzmann for his assistance in carrying out the above experiments .

