350 Mr. A. G. Bourne .
[ June 21 , XII .
" Contributions to the Anatomy of the Hirudinea .
" Bv Alfred Gibbs Bourne , B.Sc. Lond. , University Scholar in Zoology , and Assistant in the Zoological Laboratory , University College , London .
Communicated by Dr. M* .
Foster , Sec. R.S. Received June 21 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The author has investigated the following genera:\#151 ; Rhyncobdellidje.\#151 ; Pontobdella , P Glepsine , Branchellion .
Gnathobdellim ; .\#151 ; Aulostoma , Hcemopis , Hirudo , Hcemadipsa , Ne-'phelis , Trocheta .
The author gives a bibliography of the most important literature upon the group since the appearance of Moquin-Tandon 's monograph !
External Characters and Evidences of Segmentation .
The author , in attempting to answer the question\#151 ; How far in the series of Hirudinean genera do external characters express the meta-merically segmented nature of their organisation ?
\#151 ; follows in the footsteps of Gratiolet and Yaillant , who have dealt with Eirudo and Pontobdella respectively in this connexion .
The further question\#151 ; How far do such metameres represent the somites of a bristle-bearing worm P first suggested itself to the mind of De Quatrefages .
The author shows that these external evidences of metamerism in Pontobdella are most complete , and further that they have a precise relation to the metamerism expressed by the internal organisation .
The normal somite here presents four annuli of varying size , each with its special and distinct arrangement of papillae .
The clitellum involves two reduced somites , each consisting of two annuli , the generative pores being placed between these respectively .
The nerve-cord exhibits a corresponding condensation in this region .
Twenty somites can be readily distinguished , while posteriorly there are indications of several others , which is in accordance with the existence of twenty-three post-oral ganglia and with Leuckart 's observations ( JELirudo)upon the condensation of an even greater number of primitively separate ganglia in this region .
They are rudiments of originally existing somites .
In Branchellion it may be shown that three annuli comprise the somite , that in the median region , while every annulus bears a branchia ( lateral appendage ) , the most anterior annulus of .
the somite bears a vascular dilatation at the base of its branchia .
Similar dilatations , although in a more rudimentary condition , exist in a similar position in Piscicola , Clep and Pontobdella .
1883 .
] Contributions to the Anatomy of the Hirudinea .
In Hirudo the external evidences of metameric segmentation are not s0 pronounced , but minute examination shows that point for point JJdrudo agrees almost absolutely with The somite comprises five annuli , the clitellum three somites , the generative pores being placed in the two more posterior .
There is an absolute regularity in the position of the nephridal pores , these occurring in the posterior annulus of a somite .
The internal organisation bears the same relation to these external characters which 'was stated to obtain in Pontobdella .
The similar characters of other genera are less fully dealt with .
The external characters thus express in the fullest manner the metamerically segmented character of the internal organisation , and these relations are identical throughout the group .
Skin .
The skin consists of \#151 ; 1 .
Cuticle .
2 .
Epidermis .
3 .
Dermis .
Cuticle.\#151 ; This presents similar characters throughout the group .
Epidermis.\#151 ; This consists throughout the group of a single layer of nucleated cells .
These vary in size in different genera .
Two varieties of connective tissue may intrude upon the series of epidermic cells:\#151 ; 1 .
Pigmented connective tissue cells , and 2 .
Capillaries of the vascular system .
No pigment is ever developed in the epidermic cells themselves , as is the case in Peripatus ( Balfour ) .
The extent to which this intrusion takes place ( in respect of the pigmented tissue at any rate ) varies much in genera and species , and even in individuals .
In most leeches it varies also from point to point , producing the coloured pattern upon the surface of the body .
The intrusion of capillaries only takes place in the Grnathobdellidse ; in the Rhyncobdellidse they stop short of the epidermic series of cells or merely insert themselves between the bases of these cells .
Two modifications of epidermic cells may take place * 1 .
They may become glandular .
2 .
They may become sensory .
1 .
Epidermic Glands.\#151 ; Two kinds of epidermic glands are to be distinguished .
i. Mucous glands.\#151 ; These remain dermic in position and occur all over the surface of the body .
They may remain small , and in the series of epidermic cells not passing below them ( ) , or * The author takes no account here of the origin of the nephridia ; they may be , however , glandular modifications of epidermic cells , hut if so are much specialised .
352 Mr. A. G. Bourne .
[ June 21 becoming larger , they acquire a narrow neck and lie in the dermic layer of the skin .
They attain a larger size among the Rhyncobdellidse than among the Gnathobdellidae , becoming immense in ii .
Glands which have taken up a " deep " position among or even within the muscular bundles .
They present three well marked varieties .
a. Salivary Glands.\#151 ; These occur in all the genera , in the region of the pharynx , whether that be protrusible or not .
In the former case they open directly into its lumen , in the latter their ducts enter into its base and open along its extended lumen .
When the pharynx is protruded they are much stretched , when withdrawn , thrown into folds .
( 3 .
Clitellar Glands.\#151 ; These appear to occur in all the genera , except Clepsine , in which genus no cocoon is formed for the eggs .
They are exceedingly abundant .
In the Rhyncobdellidae , 1 Pontobdella , and BrancJiellion they occur even far back in the body , and send their ducts forward in bundles to open upon the surface of I the clitellum .
7 .
Prostomial Glands.\#151 ; The author has observed this variety in Hirudo , Aulostoma , Nephelis , and Tro They form clear contents and send ducts forwards to open upon the prostomial region .
They occur all round the mouth , but in great number in the prostomium .
The author has not been able to determine their function .
2 .
Sensory Cells.\#151 ; -The author has not dealt with this modification of epidermic cells .
Leydig has given full descriptions of these and their derivatives .
Dermis.\#151 ; This lies between the epidermis and the circular muscles of the body-wall .
It consists of a matrix of connective jelly ( for these and other terms with regard to the connective tissues the author is indebted to a paper by Professor Lankester " On the Connective and Vasifactive Tissues of the Medicinal Leech in which are to be found the various forms of connective tissue cell described below , numerous and large blood-vessels , and short muscular fibres .
The muscular fibres are not found in , Nephelis , or Trocheta .
The lateral appendages in Branchellion are dermic developments .
All the connective and vasifactive elements in the dermis , form a packing to the mucous glands of the epidermis .
Muscles .
The author describes the general arrangement of the muscles , recognizing\#151 ; Muscles of the body-wall .
1883.1 Contributions to the Anatomy of the Hirudinea .
353 Dorso-ventral and radial muscles .
Muscles in the wall of the alimentary canal .
With regard to the pharynx and its muscles , the protrusible pharynx of the Rhy ncobdell idse is to be regarded as representing the : whole body in that region , rather than as merely a central region ; j when protruded it is in fact an anterior portion of the body .
The i manner in which it protrudes and recedes into a temporary sae would suggest this , but comparison between its structure and the I structure of the whole anterior portion of the body in the Gnatho-bdellidse shows that such is the case .
This can only be made clear by a series of figures which the author gives .
Muscles developed in the walls of blood-vessels .
Muscles developed in connexion with the generative glands .
Muscles in the walls of the vesicle of the nephridium .
Muscles developed in the skin .
Histological Characters of the Muscles .
The muscles are formed of elongated cells arranged either in bundles .or lying singly .
These cells may be much branched ; such branched cells occur upon the wall of the alimentary tract , and among the dorso-ventral muscles .
The cells consist of a cortical and medullary substance , greatly differentiated from one another .
The medullary substance is granular and lodges a large oval nucleus in all cases .
Connective and Vasifactive Tissue .
The author has worked out the histology of the connective substance , and traced its various metamorphoses throughout the group .
The matrix consists of a jelly-like substance , which varies much in amount in different genera ; its amount determines the " limpness " or rigidity of the leech .
1Toemopisand Aulostoma , whose bodies are always " limp , " possess a great quantity , while Clepsine and , .whose bodies are rigid , possess very little , j In the matrix are embedded indifferent corpuscles .
The corpuscles undergo certain metamorphoses:\#151 ; 1 .
Entoplastic metamorphosis\#151 ; the cell preserving a rounded form \#151 ; Vacuolated cells\#151 ; Fat cells .
A semi-fluid substance accumulates in droplets in the cell , giving it a reticulately vacuolated appearance ; such cells resemble Waldeyer 's plasma cells .
They are very common in Pontobdella .
Fat globules also accumulate , and running together form fat cells , similar in character to the fat cells of Vertebrata .
This occurs in \#166 ; Clejosine and Piscicola .
This substance formed presents all the characters and reactions of fat .
VOL. XXXV .
2 A 354 Mr. A. G. Bourne .
[ June 21 , Rounded connective tissue-cells are rare among the Gnathobdel-lidae , Trocheta being the only genus which presents such .
They occur in masses , and are also very generally arranged in rows , probably prior to their conversion into botryoidal tissue .
2 .
Ectoplastic metamorphosis\#151 ; the cells forming fibres .
The cells of most wide-spread occurrence are cells which have elongated , and it may be branched and formed fibres .
It is possible to trace this process ; a slightly irregular cell elongates more and more , and its processes become drawn out , so that ultimately little cell-substance is left and a long very fine fibre is produced , the cell all the time doubtless adding to matrix .
In Pontobdella these fibres may become elastic .
They always run singly .
3 .
Ect-entoplastic metamorphosis\#151 ; the cell developes pigment .
a. The cells take no part in the formation of a vascular system .
This series of modifications is well seen in Pontobdella .
Indifferent cells develope pigment ; this may be traced , originating in young j animals ( recently hatched ) .
Such cells either remain rounded or they divide into irregular groups , and afterwards become much branched .
The process may be shortened , the cell branching , and .
forming pigment simultaneously .
The rounded cells lie more deeply , the branched cells lie more superficially , and form the pigment of the dermis .
/ 3 .
The cells take part in the formation of a vascular system\#151 ; Botryoidal tissue\#151 ; " Vasofibrous " tissue .
A set of modifications similar to those just described takes place , but intracellular vacuolation taking place at the same time vascular spaces are formed .
These come in communication with the capillaries of the true vascular system on the one hand , and with the sinuses on the other .
4 .
Entoplastic metamorphosis\#151 ; Vacuolation to form Capillaries .
The capillaries of the true vascular system are probably formed by the vacuolation of indifferent connective tissue cells .
It may be noticed here that in forms where no canalisation of pigmented cells has occurred , the blood is always colourless , while in forms with red blood such canalisation of pigmented tissue has occurred in the formation of the vascular system .
Blood and Blood Spaces .
Blood.\#151 ; In the Rhyncobdellidee\#151 ; The blood is colourless .
Colourless amoeboid corpuscles occur in very large numbers , but present no remarkable histological characters .
In the Gnathobdellidae\#151 ; The blood is red , the plasma containing dissolved haemoglobin .
, 1883 .
] Contributions to the Anatomy the 355 Colourless amoeboid cells certainly occur in large numbers .
In SepheUs and Trochetathese are almost as large as in In Hirudoand Aulostoma these , although not so large , undoubtedly jxist in large numbers , in addition to free nuclei .
The blood in all the genera coagulates rapidly when withdrawn " rom the body , filaments of fibrin or some allied substance can be , even forming on the slide .
Blood Spaces.\#151 ; These belong to two different systems , which are , however , in direct communication , there being only one fluid .
The .
mthor shows that one system represents the closed vascular system , while the other represents coelom , vessels , and sinuses .
The vessels may , to a certain extent , be distinguished by their muscular walls , the walls of the sinuses not being muscular .
Communications between these two systems of spaces , vessels and sinuses exist only at certain definite spots , as in the Rbyncobdellidae ; the vascular dilatations at the sides of the body which are most fully developed in Branchellion affording means of communication ; or else the spaces establishing that communication , although very numerous , have a special mode of formation and a special nature , such spaces constitute bo try oidal tissue ( Gnathobdellidse ) .
The author describes at length the distribution of the vessels and sinuses .
The conclusion at which the author has arrived concerning the coelom in the Hirudinea may be thus summed up :\#151 ; The somewhat scanty embryological evidence which exists upon this point favours the view that the coelom developes by a splitting in the mesoblast ; that it is , in fact , that modification of an enteroccele which Professor Huxley has termed a schizocoele .
This cavity persists to some extent in all the genera , and while it remains most fully developed in the Rhyncobdellidaa , it is reduced to a minimum in Nejphelis and Trocheta , being then represented only by the ventral sinus and its immediate branches .
In the Rhyncobdellidae , at any rate in Clepsine , Pontobdella , and Branchellion , the ccelomic remnants ( sinuses ) continue to be lined with ccelomic epithelium cells .
In many places they form a continuous layer , but generally some of them have become free and are to be seen floating in the blood .
These free ccelomic epithelium cells , which are much larger than the ordinary blood corpuscles , are only to be seen in the sinuses ; they are probably too large to pass through the communicating channels .
In the Gnathobdellidse there is no trace of such cells .
A process has been taking place , which the author proposes to term liacoelosis\#151 ; a " scattering of the coelom " \#151 ; connective tissue growths having more or less completely filled it up , the remnants forming the sinus system .
Different remnants remain in different genera .
Mr. A. G. Bourne .
[ June 21 , The organs which , in animals possessing a well-developed coelom lie within that coelom , either get blocked out by connective tissue growth or remain enclosed in the remnants .
The same organs may remain in different remnants in different genera .
No better instance can be given of this than the varying position of the nephridial funnel in Clepsine , Pontobdella , and Mirudo .
The lumen of the existing coelom , as above described , comes into communication with the lumen of a true vascular system , which was probably either derived at a very early period from the archaic enteroccele , or was formed independently by hollowing in connective tissue cells .
That the communication between the two is of a secondary nature , and not a persistence of the original communication , which must have existed if one developed from the other , is indicated by the existence of colourless amoeboid cells in the ovarian sac and around the vas deferens in Hirudo .
These were probably j closed at a very early period before the development of haemoglobin .
I This may have a phylogenetic bearing only , but it may very possibly j be a process which is repeated ontogenetically .
The development of new ccelomic space ( botryoidal tissue ) may be termed pseudocoelosis .
That this new space is ** ccelomic " is amply demonstrated by the .fact that in its highest development it encloses the nephridial funnel ( Nephelis ) , and , further , that such perinephrostomatous portions of it may acquire a definite musculature and the " botryoidal " cells become modified to form a secondary ccelomic epithelium .
The interpretation which the author would put upon this process is that an archaic enteroccele gradually undergoes diacoelosis , being replaced by a pseudo-coele .
This primary and secondary coelom exist simultaneously side by side in all existing Gnathobdellidae .
In the Rhyncobdellid\#174 ; considerably more of the primary coelom remains , and the secondary coelom has not yet appeared upon the scene .
Nephridia .
The nephridia are in all cases tubular organs , opening on the one hand into the coelom , and on the other to the exterior .
The funnel , the opening to the coelom , exists in all the genera , although its existence in Nirudo and allied genera has always been denied , but it has long been known to exist in Nephelis , and had also been described in Pontobdella .
The condition of these funnels presents , a serial modification .
In Glepsine and Pontobdella they are fairly simple , but in Nephelis and Trocheta they become drawn out into lobes , and in and it8 allies this process has been carried to an extreme , the central lumen 1883 .
] Contributions to the Anatomy of the Hirudinea .
357 has become lost , and the whole has become a many-lobed , ciliated , spongy mass .
Following upon the neck of the funnel is a dilatation into which blood corpuscles are carried by the ciliary current .
In and its allies the ciliated mass above described comes to surround this .
The position of this funnel varies:\#151 ; in Clepsine it opens into the ventral sinus ; in Pontobdella into special perinephrostomatous sinuses ; in Hirudo and Aulostoma into remnants of a circumtesticular sinus ; in Nephelisand Trocheta into botryoidal spaces ( pseudoccelom ) .
The portion of the gland which follows upon the funnel exhibits a degenerate condition ; this is probably to be accounted for by the fact that the funnel is gradually losing physiological importance , its function in regard to the secretion of nitrogenous waste being taken on by the blood-vessels .
Those genera in which the funnel remains best developed exhibit but little capillary development , and versa .
Following upon the degenerate portion or testis lobe is a portion with numerous cells containing branched ductules ; these collect together and a central duct is formed , which after a long and winding course either opens directly to the exterior or into a space which then opens to the exterior .
The lumen is throughout intracellular in origin .
This description , excepting as regards the funnel , does not apply to Pontobdella or Piscicola .
The author describes as existing there a most curious network of tubules , apparently continuous throughout the body and not segmented .
These tubules are exceedingly small , and their continuity is a very difficult point to determine with certainty .
These tubules are arranged very irregularly , they turn , twist , bend upon themselves , and anastomose with one another in a most elaborate manner .
Their walls become very thin at parts , but never present any opening .
The walls present a rod-like structure , such as exists in the nephridial cells in other genera .
The lumen is intracellular , the cells being much branched and very large .
The author has been unable to trace their connexion with the funnels , or with a series of very rudimentary vesicles , but such a connexion probably exists .
The author has also been unable , owing doubtless to the roughness of the skin , to see the external apertures ; he has , however , seen them in Piscicola , where a similar structure obtains .
The author proposes to reserve any general conclusions as to the systematic position of the Hirudinea which may be drawn from these facts for another communication .

