]\gt ; [ 325 ] XIV .
Researches on Spectrum Photography in relation to New Methods of Chernical Analysis .
\mdash ; Part II .
W. N. HARTLEY , F.R.S.E. , , Frofessor of Chemistry , College of Science , Dublin .
by Professor STOKES , Sec. Received February 28\mdash ; Read lfarch 13 , 1884 .
[ PLATES 15 , 16 .
] Introduction .
THE first attempt to apply the spectroscope to the quantitative analysis of alloys seems to have been made by the late Dr. W. A. MILLER , F.R.S. , in the year 1862 ( Phil. Trans. , Vol. 152 , p. , 1863 , and Jour .
Chem. Soc. , vol. xvii .
, p. 82 , 1864 ) .
By taking photographs of the spectra of alloys of gold and silver of different degrees of fineness he obviously sought to apply this method of working to the assaying of gold .
He was at the time an assayer to the Royal Mint .
In 1870 M. JANSSEN proposed two methods of quantitative spectrum analysis .
The first was based on measurements of the intensity of the most brilliant rays emitted by incandescent matter , while the second depended upon the time during which a substance emits visible rays during complete volatilisation in a flam ( Comptes Rendus , lxxyi .
, pp. 711-713 ) .
MM .
P. and H. PELLET , and also M. GRENIER , applied the former spectro-photometrical method with some degree of success to the estimation of alkalies ( Comptes Rendus , lxxvi .
, pp. 707-711 ) .
In 1874 Messrs. LOCKYER and ROBERTS attempted and accomplished with a considerable amount of accuracy the determination of the composition of certain tolerably homogeneous alloys of gold and silver , and of lead and cadmium , by means of the spark passed between metallic electrodes , and examined by the spectroscope .
The spectrum of the alloy was compared with certain check pieces of known composition .
Others who have attempted.to make use of emission spectra for the purposes of quantitative analysis are Sir J. G. N. ALLEYNE , who in ls75 communicated a paper to the Iron and Steel Institute ' On the estimation of small quantities of Phosphorus in Iron and Steel by Spectrum Analysis\ldquo ; ( Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute , 1875 , pp. 62-72 ) .
and H. BALLMAN , who attempted the quantitative estimation oflithium with the spectroscope by observing the degree of dilution of a solution which seemed to cause the extinction of the red line .
This is theoretically constant , but practically it varies slightly ( Zeitschrift fur IN RELATION TO QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS .
quently it was deemed necessary to photograph solu } , containing 1 per cent. , per cent. , and per cent. of the metals , and map the spectra characteristic of each .
Other photographs could then be taken as required for comparison with solutions of mineral substances or for estimating the minute constituents of metallurgical products .
To prevent the instrument being splashed with liquid projected outwards by the spark , it is necessary to use a lens in front of the slit , the focal length of which for similar reasons should not be much less than three inches .
In all cases the spark should be regulated in length by passing a piece of plate glass between the electrodes , and adjusting them so that they just touch it .
When these conditions are fulfilled and the spark is working properly , a spindle-shaped bundle of rays may be seen when a piece of card is held in the of the colli- mator tube , about two inches behind the slit .
The rays which fall upon the centre of the card should not show any wavering motion , for if this be the case the electrodes are not quite in the proper position .
I propose first to describe in detail the changes observable in the spectrum of magnesium when a series of solutions of definite strengths are examined .
In the case of other metals detailed descriptions will not be given , but a glance at the maps accompanying this paper which represent both the normal spectra with wave-lengtbs and the prismatic spectrum with scale numbers for each element , will render the changes in the spectra evident to the eye .
The magnesium spectrum .
The solution examined was prepared by dissolving a weighed quantity of the metal in hydrochloric acid .
The changes rendered visible on dilution are the following:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Solution containing 1 per cent. Mg .
, or 1000 per 100,000 of solution .
The first and third lines of the quadruple group , wave-lengtbs and are considerably stronger than the second and fourth .
Of the quintuple group the lines with wave-lengths and are invisible .
( 2 .
) per cent. , or 100 per 100,000 of solution .
The least refrangible , 4480 , is shortened by two-thirds .
The triplet with wavelengths 3837.9 , , and is altered , only one-half of each line is fairly strong , the other half is much weakened .
The triplet with lengths 3 , 3091.9 , is barely visible , and that through only one-half the length of the lines .
The pair with wave-lengths exhibit a great weakening through two- thirds of their length .
The line 2851 .
is fairly strong , one-half being weakened .
The second and fourth lines of the quadruple group are much weakened through two- thirds of their length ; wave-lengths of the second 27969 , of the fourth ( 3 .
) per cent. , or 80 per 100,000 of solution .
The least refrangible ] , wave-length 4480 , has disappeared .
The first and third lines of the triplet , wave-lengths and 38312 , are still visible but very weak .
The second triplet has ) .
The doublet , , is barely a continuous pair of lines , the centres being very much enfeebled .
The line is not very much altered , being of equal strength throughout its length instead of having a thickened appearance at one pole .
The quadruple group have not undergone any great change , but the nimbus or halo is extinguished as in the preceding case .
Of the quintuple group there is a very faint indication only of the lines with wave-lengths and , the others are extinct .
per cent. Mg .
, or 20 parts per 100,000 of solution .
All the lines are weakened .
The line is extinct .
( 5 .
) per cent. Mg .
, or 10 per 100,000 of solution .
The lines are still further weakened , and those with wave-lengths and have become extinct .
The doublet , wave-lengths and , is shortened by two-thirds the length of the lines .
The line is attenuated .
Of the quadruple group the second and fourth , wave-lengths , are so attenuated as to be barely continuous .
Scarcely a trace of the quintuple group is visible .
( 6 .
) per cent. Mg .
, or 1 part per 100,000 of solution .
Of the doublet , the first line is shortened by two-thirds , wave-length , the second is weakened and shortened by nearly three-fourths of its length , wave-length The lin is weakened throughout and more especially through one-half its length , it is now barely a continuous line .
Of the quadruple group the first and third lines , wave-lengths and are attenuated through one-half their length to a great degree and are weakened throughout .
The second and fourth lines , lengths 2 and 27896 , are shortened by one-half their length .
The difference between this spectrum and that of the solution ten times as strong is shown to be the result of strictly gradational ; 5 IN RELATION TO QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS .
changes .
Solutions of intermediate strengths yield lines of intel.mediate length and strength , proportional to the quantity of magnesium present .
per cent. Mg .
, or 1 per 1,000,000 of The first and third lines of the quadruple group are much attenuated through onehalf their length , the other portions being weakened .
Copper electrodes were used for this and the following } ) on magnesium because the graphite contained that element in sufficient quantity to give the first and third lines , though not so strongly as this tion .
( 8 .
) per , or 1 per IQ,000,000 of solution .
The same change was noted , the and third lines being nearly invisible through one-half .
( 9 .
) , or 1 ?
100,000,000 of solution .
The first and third lines were extinguished as regards onue-half their length .
( 10 .
) per cent. Mg .
, or 1 part in 1,000,000,000 parts of The lines appeared as in the last solution , but they were fainter .
( 11 .
) per cent. Mg .
, or 1 in 10,000,000,000 of solution .
In this last instance the lines were almost invisible .
This dilution may be regarded as the point of extinction of the most persistent rays of magnesium with the particular spark arrangement I have generally used , or in other words we may easily detect 1 part of magnesium in 10,000,000,000 ofliquid .
As the quantity of solution utilised by the spark is certainly less than cub. centim. we may detect with absolute certainty less magnesium .
When the strength of the spark is increased by the use of a much larger coil , and the striking distance between the electrodes is left the same , the strength of the magnesium lines is so altered that with 1 part of the metal in 10,000,000,000 of the solution the two lines with wave-lengths and are rendered strongly in the photographs of those obtained with the pJevious spark arrangement from a solution containing 1 part in 1,000,000 of liquid .
The sensitiveness was therefore increased tell thousandfold .
We have thus sufficient evidence to show that the sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction in this case is practically without limit .
It yaries however different metals .
relative intensities of their lines or the order in which they disappear as the quantity of substance in the spark decreases .
I have observed the invariable character of the cadmium , tin , lead , and magnesium lines in about five thousand photographs , including not fewer than two hundred examples of other metals , all being obtained for various purposes in the course of seven years ' work under such variable conditions as may be introduced by the electrodes being near together or far apart , or by the use of a large or small coil , but with a condenser of the same size always in circuit .
The reason of this constancy is sufficiently obvious when we consider that unless the spark be almost at the highest temperature attainable the emissive power is insufficient to affect the sensitive plate in the usual period of time ; when there is a slight fall in temperature there is a shortening of all lines such as is caused by a diminished period of exposure .
The method of using these The scale numbers given in the first column of the tables are linear measurements of the positions of the lines in the different prismatic spectra , photographed copies of which have been published in the Journal of the Chemical Society , vol. , p. 84 .
They serve two purposes , first as a check upon the wave-lengths quoted , and secondly as a means of identifying the lines .
Suppose , for instance , I wish to identify the line in the indium spectrum which is mapped as double , it win be seen that the least refrangible stands at nearly 16 , and the next at as nearly as possible 40 on the scale .
Applying an ivory rule to the photograph ( loc. cit the rule being divided into hundredths of an inch , so that the numbers 16 and 40 correspond with the two least refrangible lines , it will be found that a very strong line stands at 120 , and it is this which appears as double on the map , though the fact cannot be seen by examination of the printed photographs .
A reference to the table will show that at and on the scale there are two lines with wave-lengths and , the former of which does not appear in solutions containing per cent. of the metal , while the latter continues visible even when only per cent. is present .
The tables of scale numbers and wave-lengths are of little value , however , without the maps .
As an illustration of the way in which the maps may be used , let us suppose that a sample of pyrites cinder is being examined for copper and silver .
It will be seen at a glance that the most persistent group of characteristic lines in the spectrum of silver lies between wave-lengths 2300 and 2500 , those lines situated in a position IN RELATION TO QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS .
corresponding to wave-length 2250 being liable to be confounded with the copper lines at the same point , and one of the less refrangible lines of silver being also liable to con- fusion with a group of copper lines with wave-lengths lying between 3245 and 3310 .
Referring to the table we get the exact wave-lengths of the lines and their position on the scale , so that they may be identified at once on a photographed prismatic spectrum .
A similar reference to the silver and lead maps and tables will at once tell us the exact position of bhose lines which are to be sought for in a specimen of argentiferous lead .
In very many cases the character of the lines is sufficient to identify them , provided we know something of their position .
It may not be without interest if a description of the method of working which I have adopted be made to serve as the conclusion of this portion of the paper .
An estimation of beryllium.\mdash ; A preparation of ceric phosphate was examined in order to establish beyond all doubt that it was of great purity .
A 10 per cent. solution of the substance in hydrochloric acid yielded photographs in which none but cerium lines were visible , with the exception of one single line with a wave-length belonging to beryllium .
A solution of beryllium oxide containing of the metal was diluted to 100 times its original volume before its spectrum was comparable with that of the ceric phosphate .
It was then seen that the line with the wave-length was much stronger than in the photograph of the ceric It was therefore considered proved that the preparation contained less than per cent. of beryllium .
The analysis of an limestone.\mdash ; The complete qualitative and quantitative analysis of a mineral as far as regards the bases present was carried out in the following manner .
The substance , which we will call mineral , consisted of small almond-shaped masses apparently of the nature of zeolites interspersed with a highly crystalline and almost transparent material considered to be the matrix .
It efferyesced with acids , dissolving completely and yielding no residue of silica , a result which was quite unexpected .
After evaporation to dryness , twice repeated , there was even then no appreciable quantity of silica .
A strong solution containing 20 per cent. of the solid was submitted to the spectroscope ; the calcium lines came out prominently in the photograph , and in addition the quadruple and the quintuple groups of magnesium were noticeable , but no other metallic lines .
Magnesium being in much the smaller proportion was estimated first .
The estimation of gnesium.\mdash ; One gram of the mineral was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and made up to 100 centims. by volume .
The solution yielded a spectrum with closest resemblance to that on the test-plate rendered by a solution containing of the metal .
Three separate solutions were made containing 1 , 2 , and 3 parts of the mineral in 1000 volumes of the solution .
These were pbotographed on one plate .
On comparison with the standard photographs it was found that they exactly corresponded to those obtained from solutions containing 1 , 2 , and 3 difficulties , both on account of the mineral containing this element as its chief constituent , and by reason of the fact that dust floating in the air is apt to contaminate the electrodes with calcium , but not with magnesium .
The hydrochloric acid used likewise always shows this substance to be present .
The estimation of .\mdash ; A series of solutions of calcium chloride were made containing the following proportions of calcium : , and The first photograph of the mineral , which was taken from a solution containing 1 gram dissolved in hydrochloric acid and made up to 1 litre , exhibited a spectrum , the length and strength of the lines in which indicated between 1 and 2 parts of calcium in 4000 of liquid .
The solution of the minelal containing 1 in 10,000 corresponded very closely with 3 in 100,000 of the calcium solution , or about 30 per cent. On account of the strength of the calcium lines and the occasional vitiation of the results by calcium in floating dust , it was deemed advisable to shorten the period of exposure from two minutes to half a minute .
The next photograph showed that 4 in 100,000 of calcium solution was stronger than 1 in 10,000 of the mineral .
There is therefore less and more than 30 per cent. calcium in the mineral .
Photographs of the calcium solution were then taken containing centims. , centims. , centims. , centims. , and centims. of the standard solution in 100 centims. , or parts per 100,000 and so on .
Photographs were then taken with a quarter and with haJfa minute 's exposure , which was found sufficient ; even five seconds gave very fair indications of the calcium lines .
The solution of the mineral containing was then treated in the same ; the results are as follows:\mdash ; * To speak more particularly , the photographs were taken by Mr. TEMPLETON , a student in the Royal College of Science , and bis results were checked by Mr. W. ] ] .
ADENEY , the Assistant Chemist , by .
A second series of photographs was.also taken by myself .
IN RELATION TO QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS .
The mineral .
The standard solution .
( 1 ) Five seconds ' exposure .
( 1 ) Five seconds ' exposure .
The stronger .
( 2 ) Fifteen seconds ' exposure .
( 2 ) Fifteen seconds ' exposure .
The least refrangible pair of lines HanldK in the one photograph are of equal strength to those in the other .
The most refrangible pair of lines are a little stronger in the standard solution than in the mineral .
( 3 ) Thirty seconds ' exposure .
( 3 ) Thirty seconds ' exposure .
The least refrangible pair oflines in the mineral solution appear not quite so strong as those of the standard solution .
( 4 ) Five seconds ' exposure .
( 4 ) Five seconds ' exposure .
( 5 ) Fifteen seconds ' exposure .
( 5 ) Fifteen second exposure .
These two series of photographs were compared , but no difference could be observed between them , hence it was concluded that 37 per cent. of calcium was contained in the mineral .
This was not considered to be the exact proportion , because the lines had not been reduced ufficiently by dilution to give a good indication of the differences between solutions of approximately the same composition .
It would not have been possible to carry further dilution into practice because of the introduced by the dust in the air .
It is needless to say that carbon electrodes were not employed for the later experiment but points of gold .
If we calculate the composition of the mineral as thus ascertained we arrive at the following numbers:\mdash ; Per cent. Per cent. Mg .
Ca. 92.5 Total solubl carbonates Two analyses made in the ordinary manner by an independent analyst gave the figures which here follow .
The separation of the nesia was made with all possible care according to the directions of FRESENIUS a correction being introduced for the solubility of the ammonia-magnesian phosphate in the filtrate aJld wash-water .
Per cent. Per cent. ( 1 ) Magnesium Calcium 91.11 Total carbonates 95 19 * English Edition , by J. LLOYD BULLOCK and ARTHUR VACHER , 1865 , pp. 632 , 273 , and 167 .

