Proceedings .
February 28 , 1901 .
Mr. W. H. M. CHRISTIE , Vice-President , Astronomer Royal , in the Chair .
The Secretary reported that on Saturday , February 23 , the President , accompanied 1 \gt ; y the Treasurer , the Senior Secretary , the Foreign Secretary , Lord Lister , Lord Kelvin , and Sir Joseph Hooker , Past Presidents , and Mr. Christie , Vice-President , had proceeded to St. James 's Palace , and , being admitted to the presence of the Throne , had the honour of presenting to His Gracious Majesty an Address of Condolence and of Homage , and that His Majesty had made a gracious reply .
The Address and Royal Reply are as follows :\#151 ; To the King 's Most Excellent Majesty .
The Humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Society of London for Promoting Knowledge , Most Gracious Sovereign , We , Your Majesty 's most dutiful and loyal subjects , the President , .
Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for Promoting Natural Knowledge , humbly beg leave to offer our deepest and most heartfelt sympathy with Your Majesty in the great sorrow which has ' befallen You in the death of Your beloved Mother , our late Sovereign Lady the Queen .
Your Majesty 's loss is our loss also : a loss not only to ourselves , not only to all Your Majesty 's subjects throughout the Empire , but to the whole world .
During Your beloved Mother 's wise and beneficent reign , under Her thoughtful fostering care , that natural knowledge which the Society was founded by one of Your ancestors to promote has been promoted to an extent , and in ways , never known before ; and we feel sure that not in our time only , but in the years-to come , to the story of the advance of Science in the past century will be most closely linked the memory of the goodness , the wisdom , , the peerless worth of the august and beloved Lady , whose death has now plunged us into the deepest grief .
While thus uttering words of sorrow , we ask leave , Sire , at the same time , to lay at Your Majesty 's feet our unfeigned and heartfelt congratulation upon Your Majesty 's accession to the Throne of Your ancestors , to reign over a people to whom , happily , Your Majesty is no* List of Papers read .
stranger , but who have , by many experiences , learnt to recognise Your great worth , and have been led to the sure hope , that , under Your gracious rule , the Nation will continue to hold the proud position which it has gained under the guidance of Your beloved Mother .
That Your Majesty 's reign may be long , happy , and glorious , and that You may ever rule in the hearts as well as over the persons of a loving , dutiful , and grateful people , is the earnest wish and ardent prayer of Your Majesty 's loyal and dutiful Subjects , The President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London .
His Majesty 's Gracious Reply .
" I am much gratified by the warm expression of your loyalty and affection , of your profound sympathy with our present grief , and of your loving appreciation of the goodness and great qualities of my dearly beloved mother .
" I thank you for your dutiful good wishes , and I share your hope that my reign also may be blessed by a continuous growth of my people in enlightenment , refinement , and power for good .
The intellectual attainments and energies which your Society so conspicuously represents are among the most precious possessions of the nation as aids in securing those high ends , and I remember with gratification the close connection of the Society with its Royal Founder and my other predecessors on this Throne , and the fact that I am a Fellow , as was also my dear Father .
" You may feel assured of my constant interest in and protection of your work , and in token of my goodwill I shall be pleased to inscribe my name as Patron in the Charter Book .
" ' A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The New Star in Perseus.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. 11 .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
IV.\#151 ; The Seed-like Fructification of carpon , a Genus of Lycopodiaceous Cones from the Carboniferous Formation .
" By Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. III .
" A Preliminary Account of the Development of the Free-swimming Nauplius of Leptodon ( Lillj .
) .
" By Dr. E. Warren .
Struct tore and Affinities of Fossil Plants from Pocks .
117 IY .
" On the Result of Chilling Copper-Tin Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.R.S. V. " On the Theory of Consistence of Logical Class-frequencies , and its Geometrical Representation .
" By G. Udny Yule .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
IY .
The Seed-like Fructification of Lrpido-carpon , a Genus of Lycopodiaeeous Cones from the Carboniferous Formation .
" By I ) .
H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received February 19 , \#151 ; Read February 28 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) A short account of the new genus has been given in a note communicated to the Royal Society last August* the present paper contains a full , illustrated description of the fossils in question , together with a discussion of their morphology and affinities .
The strobilus of Lepidocarpon Lomaxi , the Coal-measure species , is , in its earlier condition , in all respects that of a Lepidostrobus , of the type of L. Oldhamius .
In each megasporangium , however , a single megaspore or embryo-sac alone came to perfection , filling almost the whole sporangial cavity , but accompanied by the remains of its abortive sister-cells .
An integument ultimately grew up from the sporophyll , completely enclosing the megasporangium , and leaving only a narrow slit-like opening , or micropyle , along the top .
As shown in specially favourable specimens , both of Lepidocarpon Lomaxi , and of L. the more ancient Burntisland form , the functional megaspore became filled by a large-celled prothallus , resembling that of the recent or Selaginella .
The whole body , consisting of the sporophyll , bearing the integumented megasporangium and its contents , became detached from the strobilus , and in this isolated condition is identical with the " seed " described by Williamson under the name of anomalum , which , however , proves to be totally distinct from the Cordaitean seed so named by Carruthers .
The seed-like organs of Lepidocarpon are regarded by the author as presenting close analogies with true seeds , but as differing too widely from the seeds of any known Spermophyta to afford any proof of affinity .
The case appears rather to be one of parallel or convergent development , and not to indicate any genetic connection between the Lycopods and the Gymnosperms , or other Phanerogams .
# " Note on the Occurrence of a Seed-like Fructification in certain Pahro/ oie Lycopods , " * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 306 .

