67 Motor Localisation in the Brain of the Gibbon , correlated with a Histological Ex By F. W. Mott , Edgar Schuster , and C. S. Sherrington .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.E.S. Eeeeived March 28 , \#151 ; Eead May 4 , 1911 .
) Motor localisation in the Gibbon has not been hitherto determined experimentally , probably owing to the difficulty of obtaining a suitable animal .
It appeared to be desirable , therefore , to see whether the habits and mode of life of this animal could be correlated with an increased development of the motor cortex .
One of us ( F. W. M. ) had some years ago , by a comparative study of the convolutional pattern of the brains of Lemurs and Apes , made the following deduction :f " The remarkable use this animal makes of its arms and hands can be correlated with a remarkable expansion of the cortex in the precentral region , as shown by the development of a broad gyrus extending from the middle of the precentral region to form the second frontal convolution .
Now if we turn to the Ape 's brain ( Maeacus ) , and see what the effect of this development would be , we observe that it would push forwards and downwards that portion of the cortex which on stimulation gives rise to movement of the head and eyes , particularly that which gives rise to eye movements , etc. " Figures were shown to indicate that the sulcus arcuatus would be pushed down to join the sulcus rectus .
The following experiments by stimulation , correlated with a complete histological examination of the cortex in front of the central sulcus , have confirmed this deduction .
The animal used for the experiments was a male and black in colour ; it was remarkably agile ; when standing or running on the ground it maintained almost an erect posture , using its long arms to balance itself very much as a man would walk on a tight rope with a- balancing-pole .
It was kept for some days before the experiment in the animal room of the Physiological Laboratory , Liverpool , and it was frequently heard to utter vocal sounds of very varying pitch and quality .
Thus it could imitate the shrill high-pitched whistles of the guinea-pig and the relatively low-pitched bark of the dog .
A short account of the larynx of this animal will be made the subject of a future publication .
* A portion of the expense of this research has been defrayed by a Government Grant from the Royal Society .
+ " On the Physiological Significance of the Convolutional Pattern in .
the Primates , ' ' ' Brit. Med. Journ. , !
1906 .
F 2 Messrs. Mott , Schuster , and Sherrington .
[ Mar. 28 , Details of the Experiments .
The animal was anaesthetised with chloroform and ether , and a light degree of anaesthesia maintained after the brain had been exposed .
The accompanying protocol describes the results obtained , and fig. 1 L and R indicate the points of stimulation .
Protocol of Experiments .
Left Hemisphere .
Unipolar stimulation : diffuse electrode on R. foot ; small electrode ( ball-pointed , ball about 0'5 mm. diameter ) ; stimulus in Kronecker units ( K.U. ) :\#151 ; 500 K.U.\#151 ; 1 .
Movements of nostril .
2 .
Retraction of lip , opening of jaw .
3 .
Turning of head to opposite side .
4 .
Extension of elbow .
5 .
Ditto and movement of thumb .
600 K.U. ( large electrode with ring loop for application , 4 mm. in diameter)\#151 ; 6 .
Flexion of elbow , some retraction of shoulder .
7 .
Closure of eyelids .
8 .
Inward rotation of wrist , reaching forward movement from shoulder .
8 ( again ) .
Drawing-back movement .
6 ( again ) .
Flexion of elbow , drawing-to of shoulder .
8 ( again ) .
Drop ( flexion ) of wrist .
9 .
Extension of shoulder .
10 .
Extension of shoulder , accompanied by abduction of wrist , extension of fingers , with a little abduction of thumb ( also relaxation of biceps ) .
11 .
Elevation of shoulder .
12 .
Slight flexion , of knee .
Bipolar stimulation ( stimulus value in centimetres ) :\#151 ; 9 cm.\#151 ; 13 .
Wrinkling of forehead .
14 .
Closure of lower and upper eyelids .
15 .
Forehead and nostril .
Unipolar stimulation : diffuse electrode on L. foot ; loop electrode as before :\#151 ; 600 K:U.\#151 ; 16 .
Flexion of hip .
V 17 .
Flexion of knee and extension of toes and hallux ( succeeded by flexion ) .
17 ( again ) .
Flexion of knee , extension of ankle and toes , going back into flexion .
17 ( again ) .
Flexion of hip and knee , extension of foot and toes .
18 .
Slight flexion of toes ( without haliux ) , extension of ankle with some opening ( i.e. separation ) of toes .
Bipolar stimulation as before :\#151 ; 18 .
( again ) .
Slight contraction of toes .
Unipolaristimulation with fine ball-pointed electrode :\#151 ; 17 ( again ) .
Extension of hip and knee , abduction of leg .
17 ( again ) .
Abduction .
19 .
Extension of foot ( very slight ) .
1911 .
] Motor Localisation in the Brain of the 20 .
Distinct flexion of hip and knee , flexion of toes .
20 ( again ) .
Flexion of knee , flexion of hip .
21 .
Mouth .
22 .
Retraction of tongue .
22 ( repeated ) .
Same results .
( \#163 ; cm .
of cortex for tongue .
) 1000 K.U.\#151 ; 23 .
Eyeballs turned inwards and downwards .
24 .
Upward movement of eyeball .
23 ( again ) .
Eyeballs turned downwards and slightly inwards .
23 ( repeated ) .
Same results .
1250 K.U.\#151 ; Eyes .
No result .
Bipolar stimulation:\#151 ; 9 cm .
No result .
8 cm .
Mouth moves .
Unipolar stimulation as before :\#151 ; 1250 K.U.\#151 ; 22a .
Movement of tongue ( protrusion of opposite side ) .
226 ( at lowest point ) .
Movement of tip of tongue .
25 .
Here a very slight movement of tongue tip was obtained from just behind inferior extremity of central fissure , tip of tongue deviated to opposite side ( but see below ) .
Unipolar stimulation : small electrode :\#151 ; 800 K.U.\#151 ; 22a .
In front of fissure , deviations of tongue as before , 25 .
And various other points behind fissure , nothing .
1250 K.U.\#151 ; 22a-6 .
Well-marked protrusion and deviation to opposite side .
22 a-b(again ) .
Protrusion , obtained repeatedly .
22a-6 ( again ) .
Retraction .
25 .
Nothing .
25 ( again ) .
Nothing ( repeated ) .
( Results obtained above from 25 with large electrode attributed to diffusion .
) Right Hemisphere .
Unipolar stimulation : coarser electrode :\#151 ; 800 K.U.\#151 ; 1 .
Extension of wrist , opening of fingers .
2 .
Extension of elbow and wrist , flexion of fingers .
3 .
Flexion of fingers , chiefly index , abduction of thumb .
4 .
Movements of wrist , tendency to pronation .
5 .
Extension of fingers , hallux , wrist ; some abduction and tendency to pronation .
6 .
Eye-movements , outward and upward .
900 K.U.\#151 ; 7 .
Extension of wrist .
1000 K.U.\#151 ; 3 ( again ) .
Flexion of fingers and wrist ( clenching of hand ) .
( Interval of 20 minutes ; stimulation then resumed .
) Messrs. Mott , Schuster , and Sherrington .
[ Mar. 28 , As before , but with fine electrode:\#151 ; 900 K.U.\#151 ; 8 .
Primary eversion of foot , followed by inversion ; movements of hip and knee .
8 ( again ) .
Slight eversion , then inversion .
9 .
Slight flexion of hip and knee , movements of trunk ( pelvis raised ) .
8 ( again ) .
Movements of trunk , flexion of hip and knee , dorsal flexion of foot .
8 ( again ) .
Extension of foot .
9 ( again ) .
Marked extension of foot and extension of knee .
Left Hemisphere .
1000 K.U.\#151 ; 19a .
Dorsal flexion of ( right ) foot , flexion of ( right ) hip and knee ( walking movements ) .
196 .
As before ; more definite .
Calcarine Region .
( Hemispheres .
) Bipolar stimulation : distance between points widened to 6 mm. 8 cm.\#151 ; 1 .
Left hemisphere , just above polar end of calcarine ; slight movement of eyeball upwards and to left .
2 ( repeated ) .
Movement of eyeball upwards and a little inwards .
3 .
Right hemisphere , corresponding point to 1 ; movement of eyeball over to left in wavering manner .
6 cm.\#151 ; 4 .
Right hemisphere , mesial surface of pole ; movement of eyeball over to left , and somewhat downwards , dilation .
5 .
Right hemisphere , outer surface ( polar region ) ; same result .
6 .
Left hemisphere , similar point to 5 ; eyes move to right .
7 .
Left hemisphere , at anterior extremity of external calcarine ; same result .
Larynx .
Left Hemisphere.\#151 ; Bipolar stimulation : wide electrodes :\#151 ; 6 cm.\#151 ; 26 .
Adduction of chords .
26 ( repeated ) .
Same results .
26 ( again ) .
Adduction of both chords , but chiefly same side .
Bipolar stimulation ( C. S. S. stimulating ) :\#151 ; 5 cm.\#151 ; 26 .
Slight adduction .
26a .
Same as 26 .
The stimulation of the calcarine region of the occipital lobe was not performed until the motor area had been mapped out , consequently the cortex may not have been in such a favourable condition for excitation .
Unipolar excitation gave no definite results ; the stimulation so given may not have been diffuse enough .
Bipolar excitation invariably produced deviation of the eyes away from the hemisphere stimulated when one pole was placed above and the other below the calcarine fissure ; the regions stimulated extended from the mesial surface of the pole of the occipital 1911 .
] Motor Localisation in the Brain of the Gibbon .
lobe along the external surface to the anterior extremity .
The electrodes placed elsewhere on the occipital lobe gave no movements .
It may therefore be inferred that owing to the enfolding of the cortex to form the fissure stimulation of this region by bipolar excitation extended to a sufficient number of motor neurones , or that it is in this region indicated in fig. 1 E by area 28 that the optic radiations terminate in greater numbers than elsewhere in the occipital lobe .
Again , it is probable that unilateral stimulation was inefficient in the production of adduction of the vocal chord , because this experiment was the last performed .
Definite movements were obtained for a short time , however , by bipolar stimulation of the region 26 indicated ; later on , however , the same strength of stimulus failed to give any response , and the animal was killed .
It is of interest to note that unipolar stimulation gave no result when applied to the ascending parietal convolution ; this fact , as ur shall see , accords completely with the histological observations .
Histological Observations .
At the close of the experiments , after the animal had been killed , the brain wras hardened in situ by an injection of formalin solution through the carotid artery .
It was thought that in this way the structure of the cells would be best preserved .
Subsequent examination showed that this anticipation was not realised , for the preservation was not sufficiently good to make a complete survey of the cell lamination of the whole brain profitable .
It was , however , quite adequate for the purpose of determining the extent of the principal areas in the lateral and mesial surfaces of the frontal lobe .
For this purpose the brain was divided into blocks , arranged in such a way as to avoid , as far as possible , the necessity of cutting any part of the cortex obliquely or tangentially , and the planes of section were plotted carefully on outline drawings of the surface of the hemispheres .
After the blocks had also been drawn , they were embedded in paraffin in the usual way , and cut into sections parallel to their faces .
The sections were stained with polychrome methylene blue .
Both hemispheres were examined , but the results have been mapped only on the drawings of the right hemisphere ( figs. 2 and 3 ) .
Since the types of cortex here dealt with have been often and fully described and figured , and since their structure in this case presents apparently no unusual features , special descriptions or drawings have not been given .
Figs. 2 and 3 show the distribution of two quite distinct types of cortex in the lateral surface of the Gibbon 's brain .
That portion which is Messrs. Mott , Schuster , and Sherrington .
[ Mar. 28 , marked in the diagram with a number of large and small dots is covered by a type of cortex characterised by the absence of a distinct layer of " granules " or " stellate cells , " and thus corresponding to Campbell's* precentral and 15 \#171 ; * ( \#166 ; mesial surface ) Fig. 1 .
L , Lateral Surface of Eight Hemisphere ; E , Mesial Surface of Eight Hemisphere .
intermediate precentral types , or to Brodmann'sf types 4 and 6 .
The size of the dots shows roughly the relative size of the largest cells in the ganglionic layer or inner layer of large pyramids .
The largest of these dots indicate the presence of cells which may safely be called giant pyramids or Betz -\#166 ; * Campbell , ' Histological Studies on the Localisation of Cerebral Function , ' Cambridge , 1905 .
t Erodmann , " Beitrage zur histologischen Lokalisation der Grosshirnrinde , " III , 'Journal fur Psychologie und Neurologie , ' 1905 , bd .
4 , heft 5\#151 ; 6 .
1911 .
] Motor Localisation in the Brain of the Gibbon .
cells ; their position thus marks the extent of Campbell 's precentral or motor area , or of Brodmann 's type 4 .
The extent of the intermediate precentral cortex of the former , or type 6 of the latter , is shown by the smallergjdots .
The Betz cells are most numerous , largest , and cover a wider zone on the mesial surface of the hemisphere above the sulcus cinguli and on the lateral Fig. 3 .
prs .
, Sulcus precentralis superior , red .
, Sulcus rectus , fo .
, Sulcus fronto-orbitalis .
c. , Sulcus centralis .
The black dots in the above figures indicate the area covered by the pi'ecentral ( motor ) and intermediate precentral types of cortex ; the circles the granular frontal type of cortex .
surface in the neighbourhood of the supero-mesial border ( fig. 3 ) .
On the lateral surface , below the level of the sulcus precentralis superior ( prs .
) , they are confined to the anterior wall of the sulcus centralis and to a narrow strip of the ascending frontal convolution lying immediately in front of that fissure .
74 Motor Localisation in the Brain of the Gibbon .
It will be seen on comparing these figures with Campbell 's diagrams of the brains of the Orang and Chimpanzee , that the distribution of the Betz cells is very similar in all three cases .
The Gibbon presents perhaps a slightly closer resemblance to the Orang in this respect than to the Chimpanzee .
It is the distribution of the intermediate precentral area which forms the most characteristic feature of the Gibbon 's brain .
The great forward extension of this area distinguishes it in a very striking way from the Orang and Chimpanzee , on the one hand , and Cercopithecus and the Baboon on the other .
This extension is most marked in the region which may be described as the middle frontal convolution , namely , that portion of the lateral surface which lies between the sulcus precentralis superior ( prs .
) above , and the sulcus rectus { red .
) below .
The area occupied by the granular frontal cortex ( Campbell 's frontal cortex and Brodmann 's type 9 ) becomes in this way very much restricted , and above the sulcus rectus it occupies only the very small space in the neighbourhood of the frontal pole indicated in fig. 3 by small circles .
Below that fissure the layer of granules or stellate cells is well developed in nearly the whole region lying in front of the fronto-orbital sulcus ( .
) .
Probably as a result of the great development of the intermediate precentral area the sulcus arcuatus , the upper limit of which in Cercopithecus and the Baboon arches round the posterior end of the sulcus rectus , and lies just within or actually forms a boundary to this area , has been pushed downwards to such an extent that it has become continuous with that fissure .
This condition can be recognised most clearly in the left hemisphere , where the sulcus rectus has posteriorly a well developed downwardly directed limb , which is clearly the homologue of the lower portion of the sulcus arcuatus ; in the right hemisphere it is very difficult to recognise the latter at all .
Another point worthy of attention is that in the cortex of the posterior part of the middle frontal gyrus the large cells of the ganglionic layer , or inner layer of large pyramids , are somewhat larger than in the region lying above the anterior end of the sulcus precentralis superior , or below " the sulcus rectus , but are not nearly so large as those which have previously been referred to as unquestionable giant pyramids .

