An Account of some Books .
I. W. SENGVVERDIUS P.D. de TARANTULA .
In quo , praeter ejus descriptionem , effectus veneni Tarantulae , qui hactenus fuere occultis qualitatibus adscripti , rationibus natur alibus deducuntur &amp; illustrantur .
Lugd. Batav .
1668 .
in 12 .
THis Author having described the structure of the body of this Tarentin Spider , and the chief parts thereof , together with its bigness , qualities , food , abode , manner , and season of stinging , and aptitude to live very many days without any visible food ; passes to discourse of the nature and effect of the poison , which being viscous and tenacious , exserts it self not presently , but lurks a good while in the body ; and after the revolution of a year , being stirred and subtilized by the heat of the Sun , is roused and put into motion , producing for the first two years only various diseases in the patient , as a dejection of the appetite , burning Fevers , Cachexy ; after which do follow very strange and surprising effects , in some singing and laughing ; in others , weeping and crying ; in others , sleeping ; in others , continual watching ; in some , vomiting ; in some , dancing and sweating ; in some , madness ; in some , the fancy of being Kings ; in others , that of being slaves : Just as Drunkeness renders some morose , silent and fearful ; others bold and clamorous .
This only he affirms to be common to all that are bitten by the Tarantula 's , that they delight in Music , and are thereby moved either to dance , or to gesticulate .
He observes also , that some of these Patients are delighted with certain sorts of Colours , some with Yellow ; some Green ; some Red .
But he notes this as the most wonderful effect , that this poison so fixes those imaginations , which a man chances to have when he is bitten , that he , that shall then think himself a King , will persist in that fancy ever after , till he be cured .
The cure of the poisonous effect , he with others assigns to be tMusick , and the dancing , consequent thereto ; which the Pasients do perform as if taught : Yet so , that not every one is afected with every song , but each with such an one , as is suitable to his temper ; that which is unsuitable , tormenting the party .
Some Tarantula 's he affirms to have poison contrary to that of others , so that one man bitten by both such , cannot be made to dance ; forasmuch as the one poison which induces to dance , is made ineffectual by the contrariety of the other : It being also requisite , to use different Songs and Instruments , according to the different quality of the poison , and the various Constitution of the Patient .
Further , he observes , that the Tune , which is suitable to the person bitten , is also suitable to the Tarantula it self , &amp; e contra ; as also , that not only men , but other Animals , as Cocks , Wasps , &amp;c. bitten by the Spiders , do dance ; and that the effects of the wound depend not on the life of the wounding Spider .
After this , our Author Philosophiseth thus .
He esteems , that this poison invades chiefly the Arteries and Nerves , and the Spirits in the Nerves ; as also the Brain and Fibres ; and having cast the humours , raised in the whole Body , upon the Brain , disturbs the Imagination , according to the diversity both of Men 's tempers , and of the Tarantula 's .
The Fevers , Cachexy , Dancing , Sleep , Waking , various gestures , he gives this account of ; That since the Tarantula wounds by biting with a moist mouth in the hottest Season ; thence by an opening made , the poison , consisting in a Salivous moisture , is out of the Spiders body conveyed into that of Man , whereby , upon its diffusion through the humane body , it affects the Muscles and Nerves principally , and in them , by the periodical heat , the Spirits stirring up and increasing the heat in the Heart , and by too vehement heat corrupting the bile in the vessels , and so causing hot Fevers and Cachexy : And it may be also , that by that Salivous and venomous substance in the Mouth , the Pores are obstructed , and the passages shut , wherby an outlet being denied to the heat , it is too much augmented in the body , and so likewise putrifies the bile , and causes the same distempers .
Sometime this poison is joined to the Spirits , and thereby causes about the beginning of the Nerves another motion , than Nature , if not disturbed , would produce : whence , by vellicating the Muscles , it induces the party to dance .
Or it ascends inB bbb to to the Brain , and there , by its viscosity , obstructs the Nerves in the place where they meet , and so hindring the Animal Spirits to pass into the Organs , causes sleep ; or , by its activity ( so quick , that the Nerves cannot be obstructed by the Vapors , and a passage is constantly opened for the Spirits to issue into the Organs ) produces continual Wakes .
If it be demanded , how Music becomes a remedy , and inciteth the Patient to dance ?
It is here answered , That Sound having a great influence upon the Actions of Man , and being a motion of the Air , the Air moved , causes a like motion in the next Air , and so on , till the like be produced in the Spirits of the Body , to whi h the Air is impelled .
Wherefore since the commotion of the Passions depends on the Spirits , and the viscous humour of the Tarantula , is a capable subject of sound , hence it is ( faith this Author ) that the Air being moved by a Musical Air , suitable to the Patient , the poison of this Spider and the Spirits of the Man are by the same agitation put into a commotion ; whence follows a propension to dance : And the Nerves being by the same agitation vellicated , and the Spirits in the Nerves stirred more vehemently , and consequently the Muscles moved , the whole Body cannot but perform that dancing motion .
If it be asked , how the cure is made by Dancing , The answer here is , that by that vehement Motion the Blood is heated , the Pores opened , the Poison rarefied and dispersed , and by Sweat ejected : But that these Patients are not cured by Sudorificks ; the reason thereof is given from the difference between Sweat caused by Dancing , and that which is provoked by Medicines ; sorasmuch as Medicines are not capable so to stir the little part cles , wherein the poison lodges , as Dancing is .
But if it be insisted , why all that are thus bitten , are not curable by Dancing , some being known to have Danced 30 or 40 .
years , without being cured ; Here is no other cause alleged , but that in some the poison is pertinacious and unrarifiable .
These , and the like Phenomenon ( vid .
why several Patients are cured , and several Tarantulas affected by several Tunes ; why the Tarantulas in Apulia only produce these effects , &amp;c. ) are fully explicated in the Book it self .
II .
REGNERI De GRAAF , M.D. EPISTOLA , De nonnullis circa Parts Genitales Inventis Novis .
Lugduni Batav .
in 16 .
A. 1668 .
III .
JOHANNIS Van HORNE , M.D. Observationum suarum circa Parts Genitales in utroque sexu , PRODROMUS .
Lugd. Batav .
in 16 .
A. 1668 .
It seems , that the two Authors in these two Papers have met with almost the very same Observations ; which they account New , about the Genitals in both Sexes ; and that , the former having appeared in Print before the latter , the latter thought himself obliged , the self same day that the Epistle of De Graaf came out of the Press ( as himself intimates ) to declare in this his Prodromus , that , though he knows not , whether the Observations of the former be altogether the same with his , yet , to avoid dispute hereafter , he thought fit , in this paper of his , to represent the short of his own un-borrowed Observations , concerning that Subject , till he should be able to publish a full History of the structure of those parts .
Touching De Graaf , he 1 .
Rejects the opinion of those , that reach a Conjunction of the Seminal Atteries with the Veins by visible Anastomoses , and that reckon the Testicles among Glanduls .
2 He affirms , that he hath often unravelled totam substantiam testiculorum in ingentem longitudinem .
3 .
He asserts to have showed by a short way , Vesicularum seminalium cum vasis deferentibus communionrm , magnitudinem , figuram , carumque in Urethram exitum .
To which he saith to have added a very easy way of examining the Body of the Prostate .
From the consideration of all which he concludes .
Unam esse solummodo materiam seminis , eamque in testibus generari , in vesiculis excipi , &amp; inae in Urethram ejici , non per unum , ut vult Veslingius , sed duo foramina .
4 .
He affirms to have an easier and more accurate way of dissecting the Penis than any other Anatomists he knows ; and that he assigns to the Muscles thereof a far other use , than hath been done hitherto .
Of all which he intimates , that he is ready to publish a Book , after he shall have received the thoughts of Dr. Sylvius upon the Manuscript thereof .
He concludes , that he hath contrived a New Instrument , whereby every one may give himself a Clyster without any Denudation of the parts , or change Concerning Van Horne , he also refutes the above-mention 'd Anastomoses between Arteries and Veins ; then describes the Spermatick Arteries and Veins ; the Pyramidal-Figure , they make , where they meet near the Testes , the direct and retrograde passage of the said Artery 's through the Testes , and such a strange Anastomosis between the Spermatick Veins , that they represent a kind of rete mirabile most elegantly .
He also will not admit the Testes to be Glandular , but affirms , ( which is the same with the Doctrine of De Graaf ) totam Testium molem nil esse aliud , quam congeriem minutissimorum funiculorum , habentium seriem continuatam , atque concavorum , pro seminis materia devehenda : adding , that if the greater Globe of the Epididymis be well examined , there will appear through its Membrane such anfractus and funiculorum gyri , as resemble those of the Brain .
He holds triplicem materiam seminis , unam , quae venit a Testibus ; alteram , quae a Vesiculis ; tertiam , quae ex prostatis in Urethram propellitur .
He deduceth from the wonderfulness of the Structure of the Penis , Tensionem ejus , &amp; impetuosam seminis per eundem ejaculationem .
After this , he intimates briefly the Observables in Partibus Genitalbus Mulierum , and among other things remarks ( what was lately also noted out of Steno 's Myologia , Numb. 32 .
p. 628 .
) Mulierum testes esse Ovario in Oviparis analogos , they containing perfect Eggs , full of Liquor , and encompassed with a skin of their own , whereof he affirms to have yet some by him , &amp;c.

