A paper was read , entitled , " On the Influence of the Sun 's Rays on the Oscillations of the Magnetic Needle .
" By William Snow Harris , Esq. F.R.S. In a letter addressed to Samuel Hunter Chris ?
the , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. The apparatus employed by the author in the inquiries of which he gives the results in the present paper , is very similar to that he has already described in his former communications to the Royal Society .
h allowed of his carrying on a long series of experiments with freely suspended magnets , oscillating in a medium either rare or dense , and either in the sunshine or in the shade .
The source of error incident to experiments in sunshine , made under an air-tight receiver , arise from the increased temperature , producing , both in the rare and in the dense medium , an irregular expansion , and a constant circulation of currents of air , which interfere with the equable movements of the bar ?
a condensation of vapour on the interior of the receiver ?
an expansion of the bar itself , by which its length , as a pendulum , becomes changed ?
and , lastly , a derangement of the original magnetic state of the bar .
These disturbing causes he endeavoured to avoid by observing the oscillations , first in the shade , under a close receiver , and next when a beam of sunshine was thrown into the receiver by means of a plane mirror 5 in which case the heat was inconsiderable .
When the bar had been allowed to return to its former temperature , similar experiments were repeated , after exhausting the receiver .
The results of a series of experiments conducted in this manner are given in several tables : and the author concludes from them that the influence of the solar rays on a magnetic bar , oscillating in air , is to increase its apparent rate of oscillation ; while in vacuo , that rate is diminished .
The author seeks for an explanation of these phenomena in certain changes effected in the surrounding medium .
Comparative experiments were instituted on a bar of copper of the same dimensions as the magnetic bar employed in the former series .
The author concludes from these inquiries , that the phenomena in question are in ?
dependent both of the magnetic state of the bar , and also of the influence of solar light .
He tried the effect of exposure of the bar to the intense light evolved by lime , acted upon by the influence of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe ; but with the same negative result .
An Appendix to the preceding paper was also read , entitled , " Re ?
marks on Mr. Snow Harris 's Communication , " by S. II .
Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. ; in which the latter gentleman , although he admits that Mr. Harris\s experiments may explain some of the phenomena observed by Mr. Christie , yet he does not consider them as conclusive against the existence of the magnetic influence of the solar rays , and points out several circumstances in support of that opinion .

