318 On the Fossil Floras of the Wyre Forest .
thickness .
The Middle Coal Measure flora of the Wyre Forest includes 55 species , of which three are new , two of them being new species of Sigillaria , and one , a new type of seed-impression .
Four other plants are new records for Britain .
The Transition .
Coal Measure flora is smaller , but includes 20 species , of which one is a new British record .
It is shown that both the Middle and Transition Coal Measures of the Wyre Forest Coalfield consist of red-grey measures with Espley rocks .
In the Transition Coal Measures ^VorZus-limestones also occur .
The distribution of these rocks is considered in detail .
The Wyre Forest is discussed in relation to the other coalfields of the Welsh Borderland .
The lower or productive measures of Coalbrookdale , and also the coals of the Titterstone Clee Hill are shown , on the plant evidence , to be Middle Coal Measures .
A species of new to Britain is described from the latter coalfield .
It is pointed out that the Coalbrookdale-Wyre Forest field really consists of four distinct coalfields , in part superimposed on one another .
Two of these , , the Lower Series of Coalbrookdale and the Sweet Coal Series in the Wyre Forest , are of Middle Coal Measure .age .
These are quite separate areas , and are in part overlain unconformably by two other coalfields of Transition Coal Measures , one connecting Coalbrookdale and the Wyre Forest , and the other confined to the southern part of the Wyre Forest , overlying Old Bed Sandstone .
It is contended that the coalfields of Shrewsbury , Le Botwood , Coalbrookdale , Wyre Forest , Titterstone Clee Hill and probably He went form a related series , which , with the exception of the Lower Series of Coalbrookdale , is quite distinct lithologically from the Midland and Southern Pennine coalfields .
If this is the case , it is pointed out that the theories of the originally .continuous sheet of measures , and of subsequent excessive denudation of the Welsh Borderland , are inaccurate hypotheses , which should be abandoned .
Intermittent Vision .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) [ This paper is published in ' Proceedings/ Series A , vol. 89 , No. 612 .
]

