On a new Register-Pyrometer , for measuring the Expansions of Solids , and determining the higher Degrees of Temperature upon the common thermometric Scale .
By J. Frederic Daniell , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 17 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trcas .
1830 , p. 257 .
] In the year 1821 , the author published in the Journal of the Royal Institution an account of a new pyrometer , and of some determinations of high temperatures , in connexion with the scale of the mercurial thermometer , obtained by its means .
The use of the instrument then described was , however , limited ; and the author was subsequ.ently led to the invention of a pyrometer of a more universal application , both to scientific researches and to various purposes of art .
He introduces the subject by an account of the late attempt of M. Guyton de Morveau , to employ the expansions of platina for the admeasurement of high temperatures , and for connecting the indications of Wedgwood 's ' pyrorneter with the mercurial scale , and verifying its regularity .
The experiments of that philosopher were by the contraction of porcelain , and by actual comparison with those of the platina pyrometer , at rno higher temperature than the melting point of antimony ; but they are sufficient to establish the existence of a great error int Wedgwood 's original estimation of his degrees up to *that point .
This he carries on by calculation , on the hypothesis of uniform progression of expansion , up to the melting point of iron ; the construction of his instrument not admitting of its application to higher temperatures than a red heat , in which platina becomes sof ' and ductile .
Mr. Daniell shows , by an examination of M. Guyton 's results , that he has failed in establishing the point he laboured to prove ; namely , the regularity of the contraction of the clay pieces .
The pyrometer of the author consists of two distinct parts ; the one designated the register , the other the scale .
The first is a square tube of black-lead , 8 inches long , cut out of a common crucible of that material , closed at one end , and having at the other a portion of about six tenths of an inch in length cut away to the depth of half the diameter of the bore , so as to leave a shoulder near the end .
A bar of any metal 6 ' inches long is introduced into the cavity , resting against its solid end , and a cylindrical piece of porcelain , about 1j inch long , which he calls the index , is placed upon the top of the bar , and projects beyond the open part of the tube , being confined in its place by a ring or strap of platina passing round it , and also round the end of the black-lead bar , and made sufficiently tight by a small porcelain wedge inserted between them .
When the instrument thus preparedis subjected to heat , the porcelain index will be forced up , by the expansion of the metallic bar , to a certain distance , where it will remain when the bar retires from it on cooling .
The distance it has been moved from its original position , will be the measure of the difference of expansion of the metallic bar , and of an equal length of the black-lead in which it is contained .
This cannot be influenced by any permanent contraction which the black-lead may undergo by intense heat , because any such contraction will occur at the moment of the greatest expansion of the metal , and the index will still mark its point of furthest extension upon this contracted basis .
It remains then to measure accurately the distance to which the index has been moved by the application of the scale , which is a detached instrument constructed of two rules of brass joined together at a right angle ; the one fitting square upon two sides of the black-lead bar , the other resting on its shoulder ; with these are connected two arms , which , acting on the principle of proportional compasses , measure the distance of the extremity of the index from the shoulder of the black-lead bar .
The spaces comprehended between the points of the shorter legs of the compasses are magnified ten times by the longer legs , the angular motion being measured by a graduated arc furnished with a vernier , and capable of being easily read off to minutes .
The author next enters into a comparison of the results afforded by this instrument with those of former experimentalists ; and especially with the accurate determination of the expansions of metals by Messrs. Dulong and Petit , with a view to show the degree of confidence to which it is entitled .
The close agreement in the results of a great number of experiments upon metals which differ much in their expansions is highly satisfactory in this respect .
Differences having been found in the expansibility of different specimens of black-lead , it becomes necessary to ascertain the expansions of each register for itself , by applying to it the heat of boiling mercury .
The author concludes with an account of some experiments which he made to determine the fusing points of different metals , referred to the common thermometric scale .
His calculations proceed upon the supposition that the equal amounts of expansion denote equal increments of temperature ; and he is thus enabled to compare the series now obtained with that which was obtained with his first pyrometer .
A remarkable accordance is found between the results with platina and with iron , -metals which differ widely in their expansions ; conformably with the conclusions of MAIM .
Dulong and Petit , the expansion of iron increases at higher temperatures in a greater ratio than that ' of platina .
The discrepancy between the temperatures derived from the observations with his first pyrometer and the present one , he admits to be considerable , but believes they may be sufficiently accounted for by the differences in the circumstances of the experiments , without imputing inaccuracy to the instrument .
rlhe author next attempted to ascertain the effects of the most intense heat which it was possible to produce in a furnace , and to measure the utmost limits of expansion in a platina bar ; but various circumstances interfered with the success of these experiments , which afforded , however , many curious results as to changes of integration in platina by the effects of heat.-The paper concludes with some observations on the practical advantages possessed by the present instrument .

