OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
CONTENTS .
Page Sir Andrew Noble ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Silvanus Phillips Thompson ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xvi Jons Oskar Backlund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xx Prince Boris Galitzin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxv J. G. Darboux ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xxxi William du Bois Duddell ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxxiv Sir John Wolf Barry ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxxv Sir ANDREW NOBLE , 1831-1915 .
Sir Andrew Noble , who died at Ardkinglas , his Scottish home , on October 22 , 1915 , was born at Greenock on September 13 , 1831 .
His father was George Noble , a retired naval captain , who lived in a house which at that time was called 65 , Union Street , but was afterwards named " Springbank .
" In earlier days the Nobles had been landowners in Dumbartonshire , but the property was sold at the end of the eighteenth century .
It was bought back again in 1889 by the subject of this memoir , who , when he was made a baronet in 1902 , was able to associate with his name the family estates of Ardmore and Ardardan .
George Noble had twelve children , five sons and seven daughters .
Andrew was the third son .
The home life was one of strictness and discipline , for the fathers ideas of education were very thorough .
The rudiments of learning were instilled into the boys by various teachers in Greenock , beginning with Peter Murray , who grounded them in English grammar , and ending with the classes of Mr. Robert Buchanan , who taught them writing and mathematics .
From his early years Andrew always did well in these local intellectual contests , and he became the possessor of several small silver medals , with the word Dux upon them .
From Greenock he went on to the Academy at Edinburgh , and passed as a cadet into Woolwich in the spring of 1847 .
His father died of typhus fever in the autumn of the same year .
In June , 1849 , he received a commission in the artillery , and went almost at once with his battery to Malta .
Most of his military life was spent in Canada , where he married in November , 1854 , Miss Margery Campbell , the daughter of a notary in Quebec .
He and his wife lived to celebrate together in 1914 , after 60 years of domestic happiness , their diamond wedding .
About a year after his marriage Noble was ordered to South Africa , where the Kaffir War was still dragging on .
He had no opportunity of actual fighting , but his experiences in South Africa much interested him , and in later life he was always fond of recalling them .
All this time he was following with eagerness several branches of science , and lost no opportunity of adding to his mathematical knowledge , which was already considerable .
He returned from the Cape in January , 1858 , and soon found himself involved in those special studies which were to bring him distinction .
The inventions of Armstrong had lately turned the attention of military men to the subject of rifled artillery , and had suggested the possibility of arming the services with weapons more powerful and effective Than those which survived from Trafalgar and Waterloo .
The controversy which was raging was well suited to Noble 's particular genius ; his talents for patient enquiry , careful experiment , and accurate observation were exactly what was needed to place the various issues on a scientific basis .
VOL. xciv.\#151 ; a. b Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
After acting for some months as Secretary of the Eoyal Artillery Institution at Woolwich , he was appointed on September 1 , 1858 , Secretary to a Special Committee on Eifled Cannon .
This Committee examined seven different types of gun , Whitworth 's , Armstrong 's , Vandaleur 's , Irving 's , Lynall Thomas 's , Laurence 's , and Baron Wahrendorff 's .
In their report they recommended the immediate introduction of guns rifled upon Mr. Armstrong 's system .
Complaints were made that Noble 's attendance on this Committee interfered with his Woolwich work , and he severed his connection with it in November , but in July , 1859 , he was again chosen as Secretary of a Committee , described at first as " on Calibres and Guns , " but afterwards as " on Plates and Guns .
" The object of this Committee was to ascertain whether the Armstrong system , already adopted for guns of small calibre , could be applied to larger sizes .
Noble was now constantly at the War Office , carrying out experiments and supplying technical information and advice to the Secretary of State .
Early in 1860 he was Inspector of Artillery , and he was added to the Ordnance Select Committee as an Associate Member .
In August , 1860 , during some firing trials conducted against the Martello Towers at Eastbourne , Sir William Armstrong , at that time Director of Eifled Ordnance , suggested to Noble that he should join the Ordnance Company which had just been established at Elswick .
Sir William pointed out that , although there was plenty of engineering capacity at Elswick , the company was much at a loss for military technical information as to the appointments necessary for batteries and guns .
The proposal evidently attracted Noble , but he asked for time to consider it .
He took counsel with his superior officers , some of whom advocated , while others deprecated the step .
The promise of his prospects in the army ( for he was already a noted expert in his own line ) , and some natural doubt as to the financial stability of the Elswick undertaking , caused him to hesitate .
Eventually he was allowed two months ' leave , and he went at once to Newcastle to judge for himself and see what sort of duties would be imposed upon him .
He was so favourably impressed that in October he decided to throw in his lot with the firm , and at the beginning of 1861 he was gazetted out of the regiment .
At the same time he became a partner in the Ordnance Company .
Before his death in 1915 he had been for some years the only surviving member of that particular partnership .
As Noble 's subsequent career was so closely identified with the Elswick Works , it may be of interest briefly to recall the unusual circumstances under which that establishment was gradually drawn into .
the manufacture of artillery material .
In 1914 , at the outbreak of war , the supply of munitions for several critical months was largely dependent upon the great Arsenal on the banks of the Tyne .
Yet the inception of this undertaking was purely peaceful .
The Elswick Engine Works were started in 1847 to manufacture hydraulic machinery to the designs of Armstrong , who himself was , of course , the moving spirit .
After a slow beginning the enterprise Sir Andrew Noble .
m succeeded , and in the early fifties it was known as a rising and prosperous concern .
At the end of 1854 the Crimean War caused Armstrong to turn his active mind to the subject of guns , and after prolonged trials and experiments his system was , as has been mentioned , officially recommended in 1858 .
This recommendation , and the published descriptions of the new artillery , caused , as it well might do , an immense sensation .
There was an urgent clamour for the re-armament of the services , and a call for immediate sources of supply to satisfy the demand .
The pressing question was where the guns were to be obtained .
All the requirements both of naval and military ordnance had hitherto been met by Woolwich Arsenal .
It has been assumed sometimes that Woolwich was at once called upon to build to the Armstrong designs , and that the Elswick Ordnance Works were formed as a supplementary establishment .
This is hardly an accurate statement of what actually happened .
Not only were the guns themselves a new thing , but their manufacture was also a complete novelty .
The method of shrinking wrought-iron coils upon a steel barrel , the accurate machining of the breech mechanism , with its separate and close-fitting wedge-piece , the rilling of the bore , and the delicate workmanship throughout , were all quite new .
Woolwich at the time was little more than a metal foundry , and was about as capable of building an Armstrong gun as a village blacksmith 's shop is capable of turning out a modern motor car .
At Armstrong 's own works at Elswick the case was different .
As far back as 1855 the new ordnance had been made there , and , by the time the system was accepted , a number of trial guns had been delivered .
In 1857 a moderate plant had been laid down for the manufacture , though there was no idea in the minds of the partners that the demand would be as extensive as 12 months later it became .
The Armstrong Works , indeed , were at first the only place where the guns required by the country could be made , and it was Woolwich that had to be transformed to the Elswick model .
An expenditure of \#163 ; 200,000 was incurred to provide the Arsenal shops with the necessary equipment .
Armstrong 's own position was the cause of great difficulties .
He had already handed over his patents to the Government as a gift , and they were free to do as they pleased with them .
But two points were clear , the first that his close association with the supply of the material was essential , and the second that , if his own works were used , as they were bound to be , for manufacture , awkward financial questions would certainly present themselves .
To meet the first point the position of Director of Bifled Ordnance was created for him , while , to meet the second , a separate company , called the Elswick Ordnance Company , was formed , and , though the ordnance works were set down side by side with the existing engine works at Elswick , the two were kept distinct .
Armstrong retained fiis partnership in the engineering business , but had no share in the Ordnance Company .
His own time was divided between London and Woolwich , and b 2 IV Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
he appointed George Rendel , a young man of 26 , manager of the ordnance works at Elswick .
With him he presently associated Noble in the manner and for the reasons which have been already given .
The company was , of course , absolutely flooded with Government contracts , and the utmost secrecy was maintained as to all details of design and manufacture .
Matters continued in this state until 1863 , when the Government orders came to an end .
This decision has been often attributed to the increasing jealousy occasioned by the official patronage of Armstrong and Elswick .
It is true that rival inventors were loud with hostile criticism , but , apart from this , there remained the fact that , with both Elswick and Woolwich in full swing , the needs of the services were more than met .
No further guns were ordered , for the sufficient reason that none were required .
The position was naturally an anxious and disquieting one for the Elswick partners , whose profits had been absorbed in extensions to their works .
The capital expended had been \#163 ; 168,000 , and the whole plant was offered to the nation for \#163 ; 137,000 .
This offer was rejected , and finally between \#163 ; 60,000 and \#163 ; 70,000 was paid as compensation for the termination of the existing arrangements .
Armstrong resigned his position under the Government and returned to Elswick , where the Ordnance Company was at once amalgamated with the Engine Works .
The private firm which rose from this combination was called Sir W. G. Armstrong and Co. , and dates from 1863 .
Noble was one of the original partners .
There was4 great delay in getting permission from the Government to deal with foreign nations , but consent was presently given , and a connection , which became literally world-wide , was in course of time established .
In the progress of Elswick , the share which Noble took can be clearly defined .
Apart from his industry and administrative ability , to which a later reference will be made , it was to his researches in the sixties and early seventies that a further advance in gunnery was due .
The inventions of Armstrong marked a great step , but the modern gun , as we know it , was the direct result of Noble 's work .
Coming to Elswick with considerable experience of the possibilities offered by this department of engineering , he found himself with a free hand .
He was unhampered by official restrictions , and there were at his disposal funds available for costly experiments and elaborate apparatus .
Supplementary to his daily labours in the office and workshop , he carried on continuously his careful and scientific research .
He studied often far into the night , and , gifted with a robust constitution , his powers showed little sign until late in life of the strain which he constantly imposed upon them .
His earliest , and , indeed , his chief , enquiries , were into the action of fired gunpowder .
He followed the lines of pioneers in the same study , of Rumford , Rodman , and others , all of whom had attempted , though without reaching any accepted conclusion , to determine the pressures produced when a charge of gunpowder was exploded in a confined space .
But their experiments can hardly compare with those of Noble , so much further did Sir Andrew Noble .
v he carry their investigations .
His treatment of every detail was most thorough .
He examined the results of large numbers of explosions ; he recorded the temperatures and pressures of the gases ; he analysed the solid residues ; while no phenomenon , however trifling , escaped him .
As an instance of this minute attention may be quoted his observation of certain discrepancies which threw doubt on the indications of the Rodman pressure gauge , and the acumen with which he discerned the reasons for these discrepancies .
He passed from experiments in closed vessels to similar experiments in guns , and invented a chronoscope , by which the velocity of the shot at any point in passing down the bore could be ascertained .
The perseverance with which he collected and collated his results was only equalled by the correctness with which he deduced conclusions from them .
Satisfied at last as to the soundness of his theories , he gave practical effect to them by insisting on the advantages of slower burning powder and by the adoption of the modern long gun in place of the old short one .
With the long gun , and assisted by the improvement made in gun steel , breech-loading was gradually , but at last universally , adopted .
After severing their connection with Elswick , the English authorities had reverted to the old-fashioned short muzzle-loading guns .
The experts at Elswick found that , with their longer guns , muzzle-loading was so clumsy as to be almost impossible , and they became in consequence adherents of breech-loading .
Writing to Sir Frederick Campbell in April , 1878 , Noble pressed upon his notice the new Elswick 6-inch , 78-cwt .
, breech-loading gun .
He described the breech-closing mechanism as being on the well-tried French system , with the gas stopped by a steel cup on the Elswick plan .
He went on to say that , while he was far from recommending the universal substitution of breech for muzzle-loading , yet , for the broadside armament of ships , breech-loading possessed very great advantages .
Some impetus was undoubtedly given to the breech-loading system by the accident which occurred on board H.M.S. " Thunderer " on January 2 , 1879 , when a 38-ton gun burst at firing practice in the Sea of Marmora .
The enquiry into this disaster forms an interesting episode in Noble 's life , for the conclusions reached by the Commission were based upon his evidence .
It had been suggested that the bursting of the gun was due to some defect in the hydraulic loading machinery , which had been supplied from Elswick , and Noble went out to Malta to attend the Commission .
His interpretation of the mishap caused considerable sensation , for he maintained that the gun had been double loaded .
The intention had been to fire both guns in the turret together , and it was not noticed that one had missfired .
This gun was then reloaded , and a second charge rammed in on the top of the unexploded charge .
Subsequent experiments confirmed Noble 's views , and the whole incident tended to show that , whatever might be the drawbacks of breechloading , the accepted system was not without certain attendant dangers of its own .
However this may be , the new Elswick guns were within a year or two VI Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
adopted , the Company was received back into official favour , and since that date has maintained the closest connection with the British services .
In order to complete this summary of artillery progress , with which Noble had so much to do , it should be added that gun mountings owe a great deal to the inventions of Vavasseur , with whom the Elswick firm became connected in 1883 .
Though his name is not so widely known as that of Armstrong or Noble , it may well rank with theirs in the inner history of naval ordnance .
About ten years after the manufacture of guns began at Elswick , the Company interested itself in the building of warships .
Starting with the gunboat Staunch/ ' which was in effect a floating platform carrying a single heavy gun , arrangements were made with the firm of Charles Mitchell and Co. , shipbuilders , to undertake further work in connection with Elswick .
George Bendel devoted much of his attention to the new branch , and the management of the ordnance department was left to Noble alone .
When Bendel left in 1881 to become a Civil Lord of the Admiralty , Noble became the acting head of the concern , for Armstrong had long since relaxed his close supervision of the works .
In 1882 , an amalgamation with the Mitchell firm was effected , and a public limited company was formed under the title of Sir W. G. Armstrong , Mitchell , and Co. , Limited .
The ordinary share capital was \#163 ; 2,000,000 , but only \#163 ; 665,000 was offered to the public .
Applications were received for more than twice this number of shares .
Armstrong was of course Chairman , and Noble , who was the largest shareholder , became Vice-Chairman .
The further developments of this undertaking are well known , and may be dismissed in a sentence or two .
A combination with the Whitworth Company of Manchester was made in 1896 , and the name was changed in consequence of this to Sir W. G. Armstrong , Whitworth/ and Co. A large foreign connection was maintained : branches were started in Italy and Japan , while in England extension followed upon extension until the hands employed were numbered by tens of thousands .
During the present war the increase of the place has been abnormal , but even before the outbreak of war in August , 1914 , the Company had become one of the largest commercial concerns in the kingdom .
On the death of Lord Armstrong in December , 1900 , Noble succeeded , in the natural course of things , to the Chairmanship .
His devotion to Elswick was constant .
Not only was his the guiding hand in all large matters of policy , but day after day he was in the offices or shops attending to every detail of the business .
He travelled all over the world for the Company , and his judgment upon business questions was excellent .
He was full of enthusiasm and energy , while no leader could have supported more loyally those who worked with him , or could have inspired more loyalty in his associates .
He was especially successful in dealing with industrial problems , and , as Chairman of the Engineering Employers ' Federation , handled with discretion difficult negotiations upon labour and wages .
He found time to deliver lectures to various Institutions and to contribute Sir Andrew Noble .
vii papers to their Transactions .
These are full of new facts , and many of them constitute a distinct step forward in their own special subject .
A collection of some of his papers has been published by John Murray for the convenience of those who wish to study his work closely .
He himself refers to this collected edition in the following terms:\#151 ; " Having entered the service when rifled artillery was not thought of , having served as Secretary to the Committee which introduced rifled artillery , and having been more dr less connected with all the great changes which have taken place , both as regards the guns , their mountings , equipments , and propellants , it may be that the present volume gives , in some respects , a not uninteresting history of the immense changes that have taken place in the Naval and Land Service Armaments .
" It is impossible in the space available for this memorial notice to do more than refer briefly to some of his lectures and papers .
In his first paper contributed to the Royal Artillery Institution in 1858 entitled " On the Application of the Theory of Probabilities to Artillery Practice , " he used Encke 's fundamental formula giving the functional form of a " probable error .
" Much experimental work is involved , and the paper clearly establishes the great accuracy of rifled artillery in comparison with smooth bore ordnance .
He concludes with the remark : " There is , perhaps , no branch of mathematics from which more information of importance to practical artillerymen can be obtained than from the Theory of Probabilities .
" The paper shows that , at the early age of 27 , Noble had thought deeply on the subject that was to dominate his whole life , and that he was already coming to the front in securing its advancement .
His second paper ( 1863 ) , also contributed to the Koyal Artillery Institution , is an account of his early researches on the velocities of projectiles fired from guns .
These were made with apparatus constructed by the Belgian officer , Major Navez .
In essentials this apparatus was somewhat similar to that now in use , but its details , as may well be imagined , were very inferior to those adopted in our present instruments .
Notwithstanding these drawbacks , Noble succeeded in obtaining very valuable results .
He investigated the variation in the velocity of the projectile caused by variations in its own weight and in the weight of the powder charge ; he also gives a diagram of the actual path of the projectile fired with the gun laid at a small angle of elevation .
The third paper ( ' Philosophical Magazine/ September , 1863 ) is a mathematical investigation , based on certain assumptions , as to the effect of rifling on the muzzle velocity of a projectile fired from a rifled gun .
It was one of the many pieces of work done by Noble in forcing forward the adoption of rifled ordnance to replace smooth-bore guns .
He calls on the Government to make experiments to assist in the solution of this matter .
In Noble 's fourth paper ( " On the Tension of Fired Gunpowder , " 1871 ) we come to the first of that series of investigations into the behaviour of explosives and artillery which will render his name famous .
In this viii Obituary Notices oj Fellows deceased .
paper he brings under review the work of his predecessors , M. de la Hire , Eobins , Count Eumford , Colonel Cavalli , and Major Eodman , of the United States .
His investigations led him to the invention of improved crusher gauges , to measure the maximum pressure at any point in the bore of a gun when fired ( a subject to which he in his after life gave continued attention ) .
These gauges were essentially the same as those in use at the present time .
From the use of these instruments he was led to design the modern chambered gun , and to the adoption in the British Service of the moulded form of powders , which , while giving the same , or even a higher , muzzle velocity to the projectile than that previously obtained , gave in the gun a much lower maximum pressure than was until then believed possible .
The following important conclusions were reached in these investigations :\#151 ; ( a ) " Our pld rule of proof for powder , that of the dprouvette mortar , seems with our present lights to be specially designed to produce in powder those qualities whose absence we most desire/ ' ( b ) " The maximum pressure of fired ordinary gunpowder ( density being unity ) . . .
, unrelieved by expansion , is not much above 40 tons to the square inch .
" Noble , in his fifth paper , " On the Pressure Kequired to give Eotation to Eifled Projectiles , " contributed to the ' Philosophical Magazine ' in 1873 , continues and extends the investigations given in his third paper .
His sixth paper , " Eesearches on Explosives , " Parts I and II ( contributed in collaboration with Sir Frederick Abel to the \#163 ; Philosophical Transactions , ' 1875 and 1879 ) , was of very great interest and value , and forms the basis of all modern internal ballistics .
It dealt with explosives ( principally gunpowder ) from every point of view , historical , chemical , thermal , physical , mathematical , and mechanical .
The objects set out tp be obtained were stated to be as under:\#151 ; 1st .
To ascertain the products of combustion of gunpowder fired under circumstances similar to those which exist when it is exploded in guns or mines .
2nd .
To ascertain the " tension " of the products of combustion at the moment of explosion , and to determine the law according to which the tension varies with the gravimetric density of the powder .
3rd .
To ascertain whether any , and if so what , well defined variation in the nature or proportions of the products accompanies a change in the density or size of grains of the powder .
4th .
To determine whether any , and if so what , influence is exerted on the nature of the metamorphosis by the pressure under which the gunpowder is fired .
5th .
To determine the volume of permanent gases liberated by the explosion .
6th .
To compare the explosion of gunpowder fired in a close vessel with that of similar gunpowder when fired in the bore of a gun .
Sir Andrew Noble .
IX 7th .
To determine the heat generated by the combustion of gunpowder , and thence to deduce the temperature at the instant of explosion .
8th .
To determine the work which the gunpowder is capable of performing on a shot in the bore of a gun , and thence to ascertain the total theoretical work if the bore be supposed of indefinite length .
This list is sufficient to show the ambitious nature of the programme to be followed .
The work was executed with complete thoroughness .
Experimental apparatus had to be devised at various stages , and as the field of operations was very largely a new one , this had to be done in many cases with little or no assistance from the work of 'previous experimenters .
The results obtained afford the first reliable data on the subject of fired explosives. .
They were not simply tabulated as those obtained by observations of the recording instruments , but were all carefully weighed , one against another , to ensure the rejection of any that proved unable to withstand crucial investigation and test .
For instance , the records of crusher gauges were brought under repeated and searching investigation , and the gauges were continually improved till their indications were consistent with the observed muzzle velocity of the projectile .
Some earlier experimenters had recorded by crusher gauges pressures so great ( in one instance 50 tons per square inch ) as to be quite inconsistent with the actual muzzle velocity of the projectile .
Noble , by his wider knowledge and acute critical faculty , kept free from such errors .
His delicate and accurate apparatus , by means of which he ascertained the time taken by a shot in traversing specified distances along the bore of a gun , gave him the means of calculating the effective mean pressure on the base of the projectile and of coupling this up with the indications of the crusher gauges .
This was the first work of the kind , and was carried out so completely as to leave the results firmly established beyond possibility of disproof .
He was , indeed , the first to ascertain what took place as regards internal dynamics when a gun was fired .
He found that , in a space entirely confined , theoretically the temperature of explosion of ordinary gunpowder is about 2200 ' C. Further , that the total theoretic work of fired gunpowder when indefinitely expanded is about 486 foot tons per lb. of gunpowder .
The work done in these researches was so great that it cannot be effectively summarised ; the paper itself must be studied by those who wish to follow the subject .
In his next important paper , " Heat Action of Explosives , " a lecture delivered at the Institution of Civil Engineers , 1884 , he brings under review the properties and behaviour of explosives , such as the fulminates of silver and of mercury , potassium picrate , guncotton , and nitroglycerine , in comparison with those of gunpowder .
The work is largely devoted to the effect of explosives on the interior surfaces of enclosing vessels , on guns as a whole , and particularly on the X Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
walls of the bores of guns when explosives are used as propellants .
It contains also an elucidation of the considerations which should lead to a choice of propellant , so as to secure as far as possible the best combination of the following objects , in association with a given muzzle velocity of projectile , viz. : least maximum pressure in the bore , least maximum temperature in the bore , and least rate of erosion of the bore .
Other explosives are dealt with , such as gaseous mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen , etc. , and of flour dust and of coal dust suspended in air .
He points out incidentally that weight for weight the potential energy stored up in a mixture of proper propprtions of hydrogen and oxygen is higher than that of any other known mixture .
Gunpowder is simply an intimate mixture of saltpetre , charcoal , and sulphur , the parts of which do not undergo any chemical change during manufacture .
It is not a definite chemical composition such as guncotton , nitroglycerine , and similar explosives .
In the strict sense of the term , gunpowder does not explode ; it cannot be detonated as can guncotton and nitroglycerine ; it simply burns , although with great rapidity , and at a rate depending largely on the pressure to which it is subject when being fired .
It was found that if in the open air a pebble of powder required two seconds for its combustion , a similar pebble in the bore of a gun was consumed in about the 1/ 200 part of a second , showing that the rapidity of combustion depended on the pressure under which the explosive was burnt .
He also found that the temperature of explosion of guncotton is at least double that of gunpowder .
Platinum wire and sheet placed in the explosion vessel prior to the explosion either disappear altogether or are found in minute globules welded on the surface of the apparatus .
At the date of the lecture he says gunpowder has , as yet , despite some disadvantage , no competitor which can be compared with it as a propelling agent for artillery purposes , at all events in cases where large charges are requisite .
At this time 830 lb. had been fired in a single charge from a 100-ton gun .
The potential energy of 1 lb. of gunpowder is as nearly as possible 1/ 10 of that of 1 lb. of coal and 1/ 40 of that of 1 lb. of hydrogen .
From these data he shows that gunpowder or similar explosive can never be economical as a motive power in the ordinary engineering sense of the term .
He makes the interesting remark that , regarding the earth as a huge projectile , and supposing that we could utilise the whole energy stored up in gunpowder to effect its propulsion , we should require a charge of 150 times its own weight to communicate to the earth its motion in its orbit .
In his address to the Mechanical Science Section of the British Association at Leeds in 1890 , he reviews the advances made in mechanical science in relation to the naval and military services , and traces the development of the cast-iron smooth-bore guns , used in the Siege of Sebastopol , and not admitting of much accuracy of aim , to the rifled cannon scientifically built up of the steel in use at the time of his lecture .
He gives details showing " that the changes which were made within the Sir Andrew Noble .
xi period of ten years following 1854 were far more important and wide spreading in their character than were all the improvements made during the whole of the great wars of the eighteenth and the early part of the nineteenth century/ ' He states , " Indeed it has always struck me as most remarkable that during the long period of the Napoleonic and earlier wars , when the mind of this country must have been to so large an extent fixed on everything connected with our naval and military services , so little real progress was made/ ' The various steps are given of the progress made in passing from the types of guns and mountings used by Nelson and his predecessors to the 110-ton gun of the -''Victoria .
" Nelson 's " Victory " carried an armament of 102 guns consisting of 68 , 42 , 32 , 24 , and 12 pounders ; the " Victoria , " the first British warship , built by the Armstrong Company at their Elswick Yard with armament largely designed by Noble himself , had two 16^-in .
guns each of 110 tons , one 10-in .
30-ton gun , twelve 6-in .
5-ton guns , and several smaller guns .
The largest charge of powder used on the " Victory " was 10 lb. , in the " Victoria " the charge was nearly 1000 lb. One broadside from the " Victory " consumed 355 1b .
of powder , one from the " Victoria " 3120 lb. The paper refers to Noble 's growing connection with naval architecture , and is the first of his papers to mention the possible use of cordite , " originated by the Committee of Explosives , of which Sir F. Abel is President , " as a propellant in ship guns .
He says : " We are as yet hardly able to say that cordite in very large charges is free from this tendency to detonation but I think I may say that up to the 6-in .
gun we are tolerably safe ; at least so far I have been unable , even with charges of fulminate of mercury , to produce detonation .
" He traces the gradual change from wood truck carriages , worked entirely by man power , with hand tackles for training , wood " quoins " for giving elevation and depression , and hemp breeching for taking the recoil , up to the methods then in use .
In modern practice every motion of the guns , training , elevation , depression , running in and out , and also the service of ammunition and loading , was performed by hydraulic power , " worked out by my friend and late partner Mr. George Rendel , and up to the end of 1881 all details connected therewith were made under his management .
" In a " Note on the Energy absorbed by Friction in the Bores of Eifled Guns , " in the 4 Proceedings of the Royal Society/ 1891 , Noble returns to the question of the effect of rifling on the muzzle velocity of projectiles .
Many experiments had been made and various kinds of propellants used , including " cordite , a propelling agent which promises to be of great value , and for which we are indebted to the labours and experiments of Sir F. Abel and Prof. Dewar .
" Three forms of rifling were dealt with , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Rifling of uniform pitch all cut parallel to the axis of the bore ( i.e. , it was of infinite pitch ) .
xii Obituary Notices of Fellovjs deceased .
( 2 ) A uniform pitch of about 1 turn in 35 calibres . .
( 3 ) A uniformly increasing pitch of from 1 turn in 100 calibres at the breech to 1 turn in 35 calibres at the muzzle .
Different forms of driving band were used .
The general result showed that both with powder and with cordite there was somewhat more loss of energy with the increasing pitch or parabolic system of rifling , than with a rifling of uniform pitch identical with that at the muzzle in the parabolic system .
The loss of muzzle energy , i.e. , energy calculated from the translatory motion alone , was in the case of cordite about 1*43 per cent , in the uniform system of rifling of 1 turn in 35 calibres , as compared with the similar form of rifling grooves , but having infinite pitch , and was similarly about 2*3 per cent , in the case of the parabolic or increasing twist system of rifling .
Noble delivered the James Watt Lecture in his native town of Greenock on February 12 , 1892 , taking " Internal Ballistics " as his subject .
The lecture brings together many matters previously dealt with in these abstracts , but the following may be specially mentioned .
He says , " although I do not deny that crusher gauges placed in the chase of a gun may give valuable indications , I still consider that unless confirmed by independent means , the accuracy of their results is not to be relied on .
" He also says:\#151 ; ( a ) That with service powders about 57 per cent , by weight of the products of explosion are non-gaseous .
( b ) With the same powder about 43 per cent , of the products of explosion are in the form of permanent gases , and that these gases at a temperature of 0 ' C. and at a barometric pressure of 760 mm. occupy about 280 times the volume of the unexploded powder .
( c ) That , at the moment of explosion , the non-gaseous products are in a liquid state .
( d ) That , at the moment of explosion , the temperature of the products is nearly 2200 ' C. , and that the mean specific heat of the products of explosion at the temperature of explosion is about 0*31 .
The tension of fired guncotton is very high , and " provisionally !
have placed it about 120 tons per square inch , but all efforts actually to measure with any degree of accuracy these enormous pressures have so far proved futile .
" In his " Preliminary Note on the Pressure Developed by some New Explosives , " contributed to the Eoyal Society in 1892 , Noble says : " Artillerists of all nations are pretty well agreed that , save under exceptional circumstances , the maximum working pressure should not exceed 17 tons per square inch .
The reasons for this limitation are weighty .
" ( At the present time , owing to metallurgical improvements , the pressure per square inch has been increased to about 20 tons .
) In a paper contributed to the Eoyal Society in 1894 , he gives an account of some " Researches in Explosives , " made in conjunction with Sir F. Abel and Prof. Dewar .
In this he deals with the erosion of guns and the Sir Andrew Noble .
xm behaviour of guncotton and cordite when fired .
With regard to guncotton , he says : " The ease with which guncotton can be detonated renders it unsuitable for use as a propulsive agent , unless this property be in some way neutralised/ ' As regards cordite ( still the British Service propellant ) , he says : " Cordite does not detonate ; at least , although I have made far more experiments on detonation with this explosive than with any other , I have never succeeded in detonating it .
" In his British Association paper at Oxford in 1894 , Noble deals with " Methods that have been Adopted for Measuring Processes in the Bores of Guns .
" He refers to results obtained by earlier experimenters on this subject , and quotes Count Rumford , who estimated the pressure at over 101,000 atmospheres , or 662 tons per square inch .
He remarks that , " were the pressure anything approaching that which he gives , no gun that ever was made would have a chance of standing it .
" He then details his own experiments on crusher gauges , and points out how necessary it is to check all such indications by his chronoscopic apparatus for ascertaining the times taken by a projectile to pass along from point to point of the bore .
At the summer meeting of the Institution of Naval Architects at Newcastle-on-Tyne , July , 1899 , Noble read a paper " On the Rise and Progress of Rifled Naval Artillery .
" In it he describes the advance made since 1850 from the guns which then formed the principal armament and the means of working them in the most powerful frigates and line-of-battle ships , to the guns and means of working them in the first-class cruisers and battleships at the time of his paper , which constituted the chief work he had been engaged upon during his life .
The paper was in every respect worthy of its subject and appropriate to the locality and the occasion .
It showed that Noble 's work in connection with the design of guns , their methods of installation and their means of working , had had a great and lasting influence on the designs of ships , and the methods of armour protection of their more important parts .
Many famous warships embodying his gunnery arrangements had been built by the Elswick Company for the British Royal Navy and for foreign navies : these included the Chilean " Esmeralda " of 1883 , of 2974 tons displacement , which had a speed of 18\#163 ; knots and an armament of two 10-incli B.L. guns and six 6-inch B.L. and smaller guns .
She was an especially famous vessel , and may be called the pioneer of the fast protected cruiser type .
In the discussion following the paper , Sir Edward Reed described it " as the very fullest and best record of work in connection with naval gunnery that we have ever had .
" Sir William White , in following Sir Edward Reed* was equally emphatic on the value of the paper .
The last of his papers which will be noticed was read at the Royal Institution in 1900 , and deals with " Some Modern Explosives .
" It discusses the growing use of cordite as a propellant in guns , and the utility and the limitations of crusher gauges .
Noble remarks that the kinetic theory ( of xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
gases ) has for artillerists a special charm , because it indicates that the velocity communicated to a projectile in the bore of a gun is due to the bombardment of that projectile by myriads of small projectiles moving at enormous speeds , and parting with the energy they possess , by impact , to the projectile .
The difference between the explosion of gunpowder fired in a close vessel and that of guncotton or lyddite when detonated is very striking .
The former explosion is noiseless , or nearly so .
The latter , even when placed in a bag , gives rise to an exceedingly sharp metallic ring , as if the vessel were struck a sharp blow with a steel hammer .
In this paper he says , " I may here mention that with a 100-calibre 6-inch gun , and with a projectile of the dimensions of the ordinary 6-inch projectile , but of aluminium , I have obtained a muzzle velocity of close upon 5000 feet per second .
" This is probably the high-water mark of muzzle velocity .
To conclude with a few more personal notes , it may be said that Noble presented an unusual combination of qualities , for while he was a great man of affairs , immersed in practical questions of administration , he never for a moment lost his interest in science , but remained an eager student almost to the end of his days .
He would return from a long spell of Elswick duties to spend his evenings in calculations or investigations in his own laboratory , working late into the night , and sometimes , when he was a young man , all through the night .
He always endeavoured to secure the best and most profitable union of science and industrial economics .
This combination , on account of the present ( 1916 ) war circumstances , and the circumstances which we believe will prevail at the end of the war , has now come to be appraised at high value and diligently cultivated .
The President of the Royal Society , Sir J. J. Thomson , speaking at a recent meeting at Teddington of the General Board of the National Physical Laboratory of the " loss we have sustained by the death of Sir Andrew Noble , who was one of the founders of the Laboratory and always one of its most generous supporters , " said : " I think , too , that the principle with which the Laboratory is associated\#151 ; the application of science to industry\#151 ; owes a very great deal to the example of Sir Andrew Noble , because he was conspicuous amongst engineers and manufacturers for the zeal with which he applied science to his industry , and nobody could say that he had been ruined by it .
An example of that kind speaks to the public much more confidently than any arguments scientific men could put forward .
" In his own sphere he came to be recognised as the leading authority of the day , and he served on important committees dealing with questions of guns and gunpowder .
Outside these subjects he took little part in public life , and his appearances on the platform were rare .
He was a member of the Court of Assistants of the Worshipful Company of Shipwrights .
He associated himself with Mr. Chamberlain 's proposals for reforming the tariff , i Sir Andrew Noble .
xv and was a member of the Tariff Commission .
He also served as High Sheriff of Northumberland in 1896 .
In 1910 , on completion of his 50 years service at Elswick , the city of Newcastle-on-Tyne made him a freeman , and gave a banquet in his honour .
With all his overwhelming activity and industry , he was the most human of characters , and enjoyed his brief periods of leisure with the thoroughness of a boy .
He was extremely fond of all games : real tennis , lawn tennis , racquets , billiards , bridge , all commanded his enthusiasm and gave him genuine pleasure .
He was also very fond of shooting , and was a fine shot himself ; his great wealth enabled him to cultivate these tastes .
For many years he rented the splendid estate of Chillingham , and a first-rate shooting in Norfolk .
He built a real tennis court at Jesmond , and about ten years ago bought the estate of Ardkinglas on Loch Fine , where he built himself a house .
His house at Jesmond , near Newcastle , was for many years the scene of visits from interesting and well-known men .
Not only were his own leading fellow-countrymen , statesmen , diplomats , scientific celebrities , soldiers , and sailors entertained there , but the connection of Elswick led to many pleasant visits from foreigners .
It was also Sir Andrew 's custom to give annual dinners at one or other of his London clubs to his scientific , military and naval friends .
He was often present , as a member , at the dinners of the Royal Society and Philosophical Club , and the Smeatonian Club , and enjoyed these functions thoroughly .
He was always proud of his early connection with the Royal Artillery , and took great interest in anything that concerned that famous regiment , especially in any artillery officer who seemed likely to advance those lines of scientific enquiry in which Noble himself was so distinguished .
Above everything he was the soul of hospitality , and liked nothing better than to gather about himself his family and his friends .
He was exceptionally happy in the circumstances of his home life .
Lady Noble , herself possessed of great character and enjoying a wide popularity , made a perfect hostess to the many guests who came to her houses in Northumberland and Scotland .
There were four sons and two daughters of the marriage .
The present baronet , Sir George Noble , was in the 13th Hussars , and served in the South African War ; two of the sons are directors of Elswick , and the youngest is a director of Lloyd 's Bank .
Sir Andrew centred in himself , to a remarkable degree , the affection of his children and grandchildren ; he looked forward eagerly to family meetings at holiday times , at Christmas at Jesmond , or at Ardkinglas in August .
No visitor could fail to be impressed with the patriarchal position he filled , and the keen pleasure which he took in seeing others enjoying themselves .
At the beginning of 1912 he resigned his active management of the works at Elswick , though he remained the Chairman of the Board until his death .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1870 .
He served on the Council 1884\#151 ; 5 , 1889\#151 ; 90 , 1898\#151 ; 9 , 1899\#151 ; 1900 , 1909\#151 ; 10 , in all five years , VOL. xciv.\#151 ; a. c xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
He was Vice-President in 1899-1900 and in 1909-10 ; and was awarded the Eoyal Medal in 1880 .
He was made a C.B. in 1881 , a K.C.B. in 1893 , and a Baronet in 1902 .
He was the recipient of several honorary degrees .
'He was D.Sc .
of Oxford , Sc. D. of Cambridge , and D.C.L. of Durham .
He also received many foreign orders and knighthoods .
He valued greatly the recognition by Japan of the services which his own work and that of his firm had been able to render to the development of that country .
His connection with Italy was also very close and of long standing .
He visited Eome and Naples many times .
His orders were as follows:\#151 ; First Class Sacred Treasure of Japan , First Class Eising Sun , Grand Cordon of Orders of Osmanie and Medjidie and Eose of Brazil , Grand Cross of Crown of Italy , Dragon of China , Commander of Jesus Christ of Portugal , Knight of Order of Charles III of Spain , Foreign Member of Accademia dei Lincei , Eome .
P. W. SILVANUS PHILLIPS THOMPSON , 1851-1916 .
Silvanus Phillips Thompson was born in York in 1851 , and died in London , June , 1916 .
He attended Bootham School , York , in which his father ( a botanist ) was one of the masters , then the Flounders Institute for training teachers , at Ackworth .
After becoming a B.A. of London University in 1869 , he was Science Master at Bootham .
As a scholar he attended the Eoyal School of Mines in London , and in 1875 graduated B.Sc. in London University , being first in Science Honours that year .
Next year he spent at Heidelberg .
He was Lecturer in Physics at Bristol , and became Professor of Physics in 1878 .
In 1878 he gained the D.Sc .
of London .
He became Principal and Professor of Applied Physics in the City and Guilds Finsbury College in 1885 , and held those appointments till he died .
He became a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1891 , and served on the Council 1906-7 and 1911-13 .
He was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1899 , and President of the Physical Society of London in 1902 .
He was the President of other scientific societies : The Junior Engineers , the Eontgen Society , the Society of Illuminating Engineers .
He held the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine and Surgery of the University of Konigsberg , the honorary LL. D. of Birmingham , and the honorary D.Sc .
of Bristol .
He was a member of many British and foreign scientific societies , of which the Eoyal Academy of Sciences of Stockholm may be specially mentioned as giving an important vote .
Photo by Elliott \amp ; Fry Ltd. Silvanus Phillips Thompson .
xvii Since 1876 his papers on scientific subjects are so numerous that readers must be referred to the R.S. Catalogue .
These papers , of which 166 may be regarded as important , were mainly on experiments in light and electricity , but sometimes on other physics subjects .
His own original work was.mainly in the discovery of new experimental illustrations of physical laws .
He had a fine voice , in good training , and it carried far without effort ; he was eloquent and very clear in statement , and studied his audience , so that he was a most effective speaker , and might be said to be a perfect lecturer .
Perhaps it was in consequence of this that he devoted so much time to the elaboration of lecture experiments and illustrations , many of which are described in his published papers .
He spoke readily in French , German , and Italian , and was of great service in international scientific conferences .
He was successful as a professional scientific adviser .
He was of untiring industry and diligently attended scientific meetings , his part in discussions being of great importance .
He not only described his own work , but he was probably , in his time , the very best expositor of the work of others , and this is what gives value to his books , some of which are still standard text-books .
The most successful of these is his ' Elementary Lessons on Magnetism and Electricity/ published first in 1881 ; it ran through more than forty editions and reprints ; the last edition in 1915 is likely to maintain its high reputation .
Like his other books it has been translated into many foreign languages .
Other books are : ' Dynamo-electric Machinery/ first edition 1884 , seventh edition , in two volumes , 1905 ; ' The Electromagnet/ 1891 ; ' Polyphase Electric Currents/ 1895 , second enlarged edition 1900 ; ' Light , Visible and Invisible/ 1896 ; 4 Notes on the Translation of Gilbert 's De Magnete/ 1900 ; 'Design of Dynamos/ 1903 ; The Manufacture of Light/ 1906 ; ' Calculus Made Easy ( by F.R.S.)/ 1910 ; ' The Quest for Truth/ 1915 ; ' Life of Philip Peis/ 1883 ; ' Life of Faraday/ 1898 .
His Life of Lord Kelvin , 1910 , has taken its place as one of the few really great English biographies .
The following books were privately printed :\#151 ; ' William Sturgeon the Electrician/ 1891 ; ' Gilbert of Colchester , an Elizabethan Magnetiser , ' 1891 ; 4 The Magic Mirror of Old Japan ' ( Set of Odd Volumes , 1893 ) ; ' William Gilbert and Terrestrial Magnetism/ 1903 ; 'Gilbert of Colchester/ 1903 ; 4 Pied Piper of Hamelin ' ( Set of Odd Volumes , 1905 ) ; Preface to reprint of two tracts on ' Electricity and Magnetism/ by the Hon. Robert Boyle ( Set of Odd \ olumes , 1898 ) .
His miscellaneous and religious publications were :\#151 ; " The Sixth Sense , " Bachelor 's Papers 3 , 1870-71 ; 'On the Progress of the Theory of Natural Selection/ 1871 ; ' Our National System of Weights and Measures/ 1871 ; The Poems of Morris/ 1871 ; 'Religion and Science , ' 1871 ; " Two Pictures " and " The Mystery of Nature , " in the 'Friends ' Quarterly Examiner , 1876 ; ' Can a Scientific Man be a Sincere Friend/ 1895 ; Intuitional Religion : A Study of the Divine , ' 1906 ; 'Illumination/ a lecture , 1914 ; ' The Quest for Truth/ the Swarthmore Lecture of the Society of Friends , 1915 .
xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
He collected curious books , and sometimes wrote about them .
His collection of manuscripts , old pamphlets , and books relating to electricity is of great value ; along with the Eonalds Collection it is for the future to be in the care of the Institution of Electrical Engineers .
He had a fondness for old books and old things of all kinds which illustrated the history of his studies .
He was of great authority in the bibliography of his studies , and indeed of general subjects .
He was familiar with all sorts of byways in literature .
He was most catholic in his sympathies , being a keen amateur in music , and almost more than an amateur as a painter of water colours , more especially of Alpine scenery .
I think it well to give the following extract from a paper by Sir George Newman in the ' Friends ' Quarterly Examiner/ July , 1916:\#151 ; " The most interesting part of his home in Hampstead w^as the library .
It " was a downstairs room , furnished and fitted to be a compendious receptacle " of pamphlets and books , severely business-like and scientific in method .
" Here he stored his wonderful collection of works on electricity and " magnetism , a collection to which additions were continually made , and " to which precious ' finds 5 were carefully brought .
It consisted of about " 13,000 items , including a few ancient manuscripts relating to magnetism ; " about 900 scarce magnetic and electrical books and works relating to the " early history of the science , printed before 1825 ; more than 2500 modern " works of science and text-books of electricity and magnetism , printed after " 1825 ; 8000 pamphlets ; 1200 volumes of periodicals and proceedings of " societies ; 200 autograph papers of eminent scientific men ; and 34 precious " Faraday MSS .
It is hard to say which group of ' items ' is the most " interesting , though it is certain that their learned possessor was able to " make any of them of absorbing and transcendent interest whenever he " chose .
He would gloat over his collection of autographs , and do a swap " with the keenness of a schoolboy ; or he wrnuld handle some old manuscript " with reverent and even loving care ; or he would argue and protest , and " explain and declare , that before us and in our very hands was a document " which conclusively demonstrated that such and such a much belauded " theory of thermodynamics , believed of all men , was unthinkable , incredible , " impossible !
" It was this unique collection which oftentimes furnished Prof. Thompson " with the material for those delightful papers and brochures , biographical or " other , with which he regaled first this learned society and then that .
There " was one on ' Peter Short , Printer , and His Master ' ; the Boyle Lecture on Magnetism in Growth ' ; there were several on Dr. William Gilbert , " physician to Queen Elizabeth , who in 1600 wrote ' De Magnete ' ; there " were two on Yolta , one on Sturgeon , and a biographical dissertation on " Petrus Peregrinus de Maricourt , a thirteenth-century authority on the " magnet and the lodestone ; and there was the ingenious paper on the " origin , history , and development of the compass card entitled ' The Eose of Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
xix " the Winds/ Prof. Thompson was a brilliant expositor of the mysterious " and the occult , and , to hear him discourse on the magnet , the lodestone , or the mariner 's compass , was to be taken into a world of magic .
" Many of the books in his library were valued not only for their great age , " authority , or rarity , but also because of some special interest attached to the " particular copy .
Here is one with the Aldine Anchor Mark in one of its " rarest forms ; some belonged to Ampere , Faraday , William Gilbert , Claude " Delaunay , S. T. Coleridge , Volta , Archdeacon Barlow , Ridley , and others ; " some were peculiar or unique in form or substance , with something quaint " or rare about them which their owner had discovered or understood ; and yet " others were like dear and tried friends , who had led him by the hand on his " own upward path of invention or discovery .
" To that article I would refer readers who may be interested to know how a man might believe in the latest discoveries of natural science and yet remain a sincere Quaker .
Newman 's description of Thompson 's attitude to spiritual things is most impressive .
Thompson 's friendships were faithful and sincere .
His conversation and manners were on the level of the high standards of the Society of Friends .
He loved work , but he was overworked at Finsbury , as any teacher must be who has charge of both day and night lecture and laboratory classes .
He died without suffering .
To the end he looked happy .
He attended his college duties on a Saturday , he had a stroke later in the day , and died on the following Monday .
His family history is an interesting one , going back for some centuries .
Limiting myself to people interested in natural science and not far removed : his grandfather , Thomas Thompson , of Liverpool , was a chemist , and his grandmother 's brothers were William Phillips , F.R.S. , a geologist , and Richard Phillips , F.R.S. , a physicist and a correspondent of Faraday .
Another grandfather , John Tatham , of Settle , chemist , was also a botanist , and his mother was a good field botanist .
He married in 1881 Jane , the eldest daughter of James Henderson , of Pollokshields .
His four daughters interested themselves in natural science when at school .
Sylvia and Irene have , however , taken to music or painting .
Helen was second in the Cambridge Natural Science Tripos ; she , like her sister , Dorothea ( who is a sanitary inspector ) , is a B.Sc. of London .
J. P. VOL. XC1V.\#151 ; A. d XX JONS OSKAK BACKLUNI ) ( 1846-1916 ) .
Oskak Backlund was born on April 28 , 1846 , in the parish of Langhem , in Warmland , Sweden .
His parents were very poor , and after an elementary school education the boy was put into his uncle 's business .
But by diligently preparing himself he succeeded in entering the University of Upsala in 1866 .
He there studied mathematics and astronomy under Wackerbarth , to what good purpose became clear in later life .
After completing his university career , he was for some time a master in a technical school at Lulendome , in Sweden , but later we find him at the Stockholm Observatory , studying the movement of the comet of 1849 , and the minor planet Iphigenia .
In 1876 he was appointed one of the observers at Dorpat ( now Jurjev ) under the directorate of Schwarz , and he took a share in the meridian observations for zone +70 ' to +75 ' of the ' Astronomische Gesellschaft ' Catalogue .
In 1879 he was nominated assistant astronomer at Pulkovo , under Otto Struve , and used the Repsold heliometer for measures of the satellites of Jupiter\#151 ; work which has unfortunately never been published .
But on the death of von Asten in 1878 , at the early age of 36 , Backlund took over his researches on Encke 's Comet ; and for the remainder of Baeklund 's own life this investigation occupied a large share of his attention .
His last memoir on the comet was presented to the Petrograd Academy only in 1916 , and has not yet been published .
From the first , his attack on this problem attracted attention , especially that of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Petrograd , who elected him titular member in 1883 , on his being first naturalised a Russian subject .
In 1886 he left the Pulkovo Observatory to take up his residence at the Academy , where he organised a body of computers to deal with the enormous mass of calculations required ; for by this time Backlund had determined that all the perturbations from 1819 onwards must be recomputed .
The cost was defrayed by the generosity of M. E. Nobel .
The results are published in the 4 Memoirs 9 of the Academy .
He received the Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society for his successful treatment of this important problem in 1909 , and it is needless to repeat here any elaborate account of the work when Prof. Newall 's address is so readily accessible ( f Mon .
Not .
, ' vol. 69 , p. 324 ) .
The main result is that the mean motion of the comet is accelerated , but that there have been several changes in the amount of acceleration .
It was constant at the value / // \#151 ; 0"T26 in 1819 -1858 , during which period there was , however , a curious periodic term + 4 " cos yfr , ' the period of being ten years .
There were changes in / // in 1858 , when it fell to about 0"*08 , and again in 1868 when it fell to 0"*066 , remaining at that value until 1891 .
These assumptions not only give a satisfactory account of the motion of the cornet , but a Jons Oskar Backlund .
XX ] consistent mass for Mercury at 1/ 9700000 ; the latter result removing a longstanding difficulty .
In ' M.N.K.A.S. , ' vol. 70 , p. 429 , Backlund gave a supplementary account of his researches on the comet 's motion 1895-1908 .
The value of ^ again fell in January , 1895 , to 0"*050 ; and probably also again in January , 1905 .
Backlund inferred that these sudden changes are in some way due to the crossing of a meteoric ring , near the perihelion passage of the comet .
But this very considerable work was not sufficient to satisfy him .
He went on with his researches on minor planets\#151 ; it will presently be shown how he regarded them as related to that on Encke 's Comet\#151 ; paying special attention to Gyld4n 's work. .
He lectured at the University , and several of his pupils were inspired by him to calculate orbits by Gylden 's methods .
He also obtained an instrument for measuring photographs , and interested several ladies who had graduated at the ladies ' University in Petrograd in the measurement of stellar clusters .
But in 1895 , when Brediehin was compelled by ill-health to resign the Directorship of the Pulkovo Observatory , the Academy called upon Backlund to leave his peaceful life among them , and to undertake the administrative duties which he discharged so well and so faithfully until his death .
His great energy became manifest from the first .
The time given to calculation was doubled , and the number of computers was increased also .
In 1916 the total vote for computation was 13,200 roubles as against 1500 or 2000 roubles per year in 1895 .
His experience led him to engage several ladies in this work .
The staff was augmented in other directions , , and several first class instruments were obtained .
But it had long been realised that the high northern latitude of Pulkovo was unfavourable for observation , and Backlund at once set about experiments at other stations .
In 1896 a transit instrument and a vertical circle were set up at Odessa , and in 1898 regular observations were commenced , which soon showed the advantages of a more southerly site .
In 1900 the benefaction of two considerable pieces of land made it possible to contemplate a complete observatory on an adequate scale , if only the money could be found .
Baeklund 's influence and energy were thenceforward directed to attack this difficulty , but it was not until June , 1912 , that the money was ultimately voted\#151 ; 310,000 roubles for installation and 35,700 roubles a year for maintenance .
The physical portion of the Observatory was to be erected at Simeis ( a reflector one metre in diameter ) , and the astrometrical part at Nicolaiev ( refractor of 32 inches ) .
All the instruments were ordered in Great Britain , but .
unfortunately , the war arrested their construction , and Backlund was not to live to see his work completed .
He superintended the preliminary work at both observatories , which necessitated many long journeys to and from Pulkovo .
But these were only a small part of the travelling he did after his appointment as Director .
He had already attended the Committee of the Astrographic Chart which met in Paris in 1889 , as savant inviU : and in 1896 he returned in the same capacity ; for his xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Observatory of Pulkovo was taking no direct share in the work , and he only spoke once ( in favour of the greatest possible precision in measurement ) .
But in 1909 he took a leading part in the discussions , presiding over one of the Committees , with satisfaction to all concerned .
In 1904 he was invited to the Congress of Arts and Science at St. Louis , and took the meeting of the British Association at Cambridge on his way to the United States .
In the following year he travelled with the British Association to South Africa .
He attended the meetings of the International Union for Co-operation in Solar Research at Mount Wilson ( 1910 ) and Bonn ( 1913 ) ; various geodetic and other conferences ; and the meetings of the International Association of Academies , over the last of which ( in 1913 at Petrograd ) he presided , entertaining the delegates after the meeting was over at Pulkovo in the most hospitable manner .
His great friend , Prince Galitzin , was Secretary at this meeting ; and the co-operation of these two men , now both lost to the world , secured a wonderful success .
Both were always welcome in England , and Backlund especially came frequently\#151 ; in 1909 he was here in February to receive the R.A.S. Gold Medal , and later for the Geodetic Conference in London and Cambridge .
Altogether he made at least 30 journeys outside Russia in 20 years .
Backlund 's address at the St. Louis Congress in 1904 was an able review of the situation in Celestial Mechanics , in which he contrasted the successful negotiation of the problems for the larger planets , under Newcomb and Hill , with the uncertainties of the attack on comets and small planets .
The connection between these two latter problems was brought before the attention of mathematical astronomers by Encke 's Comet at the beginning of the 19th century:\#151 ; " The aphelion of the comet lies within the orbit of Jupiter , the eccentricity is far greater than that of any of the hitherto known planetary orbits , and the inclination amounts to 12 ' .
If the formulae could be found which represent the motion of this comet , the question in reference to the small planets would also be solved .
It was , however , not merely from this point of view that Hansen set himself the problem of obtaining such formulae .
He doubted , in fact , the correctness of the comet 's acceleration found by Encke , and hoped by means of general formulae to be able to settle that question .
" Backlund 's own work , by establishing not only the existence of an acceleration for Encke 's comet , but changes in that acceleration from some cause as yet unidentified , makes it necessary to consider the problem of the small planets separately , at any rate .
He himself had faith in Gylden 's methods for this problem :\#151 ; " The circumstance that a large portion of the small planets occur in the neighbourhood of the so-called gaps , thus causing such an increase in the perturbations that after a relatively short time these can no longer be considered as small quantities , led Gyld^n to state the question in the following manner:\#151 ; ' Will it be possible to determine the elements as absolute constants , and so to determine the terms of long periods ( thus avoiding comJons Oskar Backlund .
xxm pletely the introduction of the time explicitly ) that the intermediate orbit thus obtained shall remain included within definite limits , and only differ from the real orbit by quantities of the order of the masses of the planets ?
' The question includes the question of stability ; the principal problem thus consists in proving the convergence of the long-period series .
Gylden believed that he could establish the convergence by means of what he called the horistic method .
Poincare , however , disputes the correctness of this method .
On this assumption , Gylden 's theory would be merely an hypothesis .
Even if the method is correct , it is applicable only with reference to a limited number of small planets , as it is based upon the development in powers of the eccentricities and inclinations of the disturbing and disturbed planets .
Here then we stand , so far as this question is concerned , at the end of the 19th century .
Upon the problem presented at the beginning of the century much skill and labour has been spent ; a satisfactory solution has not , however , been reached .
" If now we turn to the larger planets , a more gratifying picture presents itself , etc. " An unsigned appreciation of Backlund in ' The Observatory ' for March , 1917 , has given us a sequel to this pronouncement from a private letter:\#151 ; " The main cause why I have been so lazy [ in not writing ] is my occupation with a theoretical question of great difficulty .
You know , perhaps , that Poincare has criticised the theory of Gyldfen in ' Acta Mathematical He is in many respects right , but in the most wrong .
Now , I regarded it as my duty to try to restore the reputation of Gylden , which such an authority as Poincare can easily ruin .
But the question has proved very hard , because it touches the boundaries of mathematical knowledge .
At last I have arrived at a certain result , so that I can now lay this hard work aside .
" If Gyldfen 's work does ultimately take its stand on firm ground , the event will owe much to Backlund 's devoted appreciation and elucidation .
He began his study of these methods during his residence at the Petrograd Academy , as already noted , and it remained with him throughout the rest of his life .
He supervised the second volume of Gylden 's * Traits Analytique des Orbites Absolues des Huit Plan fetes Principals ' ( 1908 ) , of which little more than half was in the press when Gyldfen died .
Backlund often spoke of his days of residence at the Academy as a specially happy time in his life , which was high appreciation , for though the remainder of his life was perhaps subject to greater and more frequent distractions , it was undoubtedly very happy and prosperous .
If he exchanged his peaceful residence in the Academy for a life of constant travel , he was a traveller who was more than welcome everywhere , owing to his wonderful geniality and sound common sense .
He had an apparently inexhaustible fund of good stories ; and he had a delicate touch with difficult situations .
As an instance of the latter quality ( though to give instances is a course of doubtful expediency ) , one may quote the following remark of his , which in itself explains the situation giving rise to it .
" When he said that , I saw at once xxiv Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
that he was mad , and so I spoke no more astronomy with him .
" People of slower perceptions might have blundered into an awkward discussion or even a quarrel in this particular case , which was very puzzling ; but Backlund 's reading was sufficiently prompt .
He could speak many languages fluently , though with certain quaintnesses in his diction which gave it a special attractiveness .
In the charm of his presence it was easy to forget how considerable an achievement one was witnessing\#151 ; as , for instance , when after receiving the R.A.S. Medal in 1909 , he made , in English , a postprandial speech which few Englishmen could have equalled for grace and quiet humour .
One forgot to reflect that he could probably have done the same in Russian , French or German , besides , of course , his native language , Swedish .
And these were not the accomplishments of a professional diplomat , but of a man occupied with work of the first rank in both astronomy and mathematics , who ( as we now learn but never suspected ) made his own path to the university from unpromising beginnings .
He had , moreover , a wonderful and infectious capacity for enjoying life , combined with an ability to work under very varied conditions .
Thus he rejoiced in the long train journeys which in his later days took him from one of the observatories he superintended to another , because they were opportunities for mathematical work , for which he otherwise could not obtain sufficient leisure .
In fine , if his life at the Academy was happier than that which brought him , to our great delight , so often to England and elsewhere , it must indeed have been supremely happy .
Many honours naturally fell to him .
Besides the RA .
S. Medal he received the Lalande Prize of the Paris Academy des Sciences , of which he was a correspondent since 1895 .
He was elected a Foreign Member of this Society in 1911 .
He died suddenly , on August 29 , 1916 , in his home at Pulkovo .
He had just returned from Finland , where he and his wife had spent some weeks in order that ( what was hoped to be ) a slight ailment might be cured .
The day before his death he spent actively in Petrograd , retiring early to bed on his return to Pulkovo ; but he slept badly and in the morning felt so weak that he remained in bed .
About 2 o'clock in the afternoon he was thirsty , and Madame Backlund was on the point of leaving the room to get a drink for him when he drew three deep breaths and expired .
He was buried in the cemetery of the Observatory on September 3 .
[ For many of the details the writer is indebted to M. Belopolski .
] H. H. T. XXV Prince BORIS GALITZIN ( 1862-1916 ) .
Among the oldest families of Russia , the Princes Galitzin can trace their pedigree back to the Lithuanian Prince Gedimine in the fourteenth century .
During the reign of Ivan the Terrible one of their ancestors settled in the Muscovitish Kingdom , and his son adopted the name of Galitzin .
A successful General and Field Marshal , Prince Michail Mikailovitch Galitzin served with distinction under Peter the Great , and , descending in a direct line from him , we find Prince Boris Galitzin devoting his life to the peaceful pursuit of science , until the outbreak of the War , when his entire skill and experience were placed with characteristic energy at the disposal of his country .
Prince Boris Borissovitch Galitzin was born on February 18 , 1862 , at Petrograd .
His early education was received at home , where\#151 ; for a time\#151 ; he was under the influence of a Cambridge graduate , Mr. Rogers .
His early family surroundings do not seem to have been happy ones ; when he was 6 years old , his grandmother , the Countess Koushelev , who resided at Athens , took charge of him , and three years later his mother divorced her husband and married the Marquis of Incontri , then Secretary of the Italian Embassy at Petrograd , spending the remainder of her life in Italy .
With both his mother and stepfather , Prince Galitzin preserved the most friendly relations .
The position and influence of the Galitzin family might have led one to expect that the path of success would have been rendered easy to any of its members possessing sufficient intelligence and energy .
But this was far from being so .
During the critical period of his life , Prince Galitzin had to earn his own living , and , though his fate in this respect was no worse than that of most men of science , he suffered from the additional disadvantage that the academic world of Russia did not\#151 ; at first\#151 ; readily receive him as one of their own .
He had to fight his way up against much opposition , and his ultimate success was due to sheer merit and force of character .
At the same time , his early struggles gave him experience of the world , supplied outside interests which added to his enjoyment of life , and engendered a feeling of sympathy and kindness towards young and struggling men of science .
This remained one of the most conspicuous features of his character during the period of his success .
After the death of his grandmother , Galitzin , desirous of entering the Naval School at Petrograd , went to live with one of the teachers of that institution , who prepared him for the entrance examination .
He remained a pupil of the school during five years ( 1875-1880 ) , participating during the summer months in the sea voyages arranged by the school .
In passing out of the school , he obtained the first place in the final examination , and was XXVI Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
appointed " garde-marine " on the warship " Prince of Edinburgh .
" During 1881 he visited a number of ports in the Mediterranean , and , in company with the Grand Dukes Sergius and Paul , made an excursion to Jerusalem and Jericho .
He also spent some time in Rome , where he became interested in art and archaeology .
In the autumn of 1881 Galitzin was promoted midshipman , but immediately resigned his commission , because the " Prince of Edinburgh " was ordered to leave for the Far East , and he saw no hope of advancing his scientific knowledge while he remained in the service .
On his return to Petrograd , he was , however , foiled in his wish of entering the University , the authorities putting pressure upon him to join the Naval Academy .
A severe illness forced him temporarily to interrupt his studies , and he spent the next two years with hi , s mother in Italy , mostly at Florence .
There he devoted some time to the study of social science , history , and civil law , but did not abandon science , attending lectures on chemistry , working at practical physics , and receiving private instruction in the higher mathematics .
In the autumn of 1884 , Prince Galitzin returned to Petrograd , and entered the Naval Academy , where he stayed two years , and ultimately obtained the second place on the list of graduates .
On technical grounds\#151 ; being one month short of the time required to have been spent at sea \#151 ; he was unable to obtain a commission , and , unwilling to serve again as midshipman , Galitzin definitely left the Navy .
He met with a further disappointment when his admission to the University was made conditional on his passing another entrance examination in school subjects , including Arithmetic , Scripture , etc. Galitzin was by nature endowed with an even temper , but the one thing that\#151 ; more than anything else\#151 ; roused his indignation was to be compelled himself , or to see others compelled , to waste time on useless objects .
Those who knew Galitzin only in later life can yet easily picture how he would resent\#151 ; after several years of serious study\#151 ; a demand to pass an elementary examination , even though he might be fully prepared for it .
3 Galitzin left Petrograd , returned to Florence to learn German , and a few months later entered the University at Strassburg in the spring of 1887 .
His literary activity began almost at the same time .
It took the form of a compilation entitled ' Material for the Study of Meteorology/ based on the lectures of General Rykatchew at the Naval Academy .
The work was published by the Russian Ministry of Marine .
His scientific reading and experimental work soon began to bear fruit .
A paper on the relation between the curvature of liquid surfaces and the vapour pressure of the liquid in contact , with the surface appeared in 4 Wiedemann 's Annalen ' in 1888 , and in the following year the same publication contained his doctor-dissertation .
This dealt both from the experimental and theoretical point of view with Dalton 's law of the independence of pressure due to each component of a mixture of gases ; it was followed by a further paper " On the Range of Action of Molecular Forces .
" Having Prince Boris Galitzin .
xxvii obtained his degree at Strassburg , Galitzin returned to Petrograd , where he was admitted to the University without further formalities , and during the winter of 1890 passed the various examinations leading to the doctor 's degree .
Soon afterwards he was appointed Lecturer in Physics at the University of Moscow , but his troubles were not yet over .
A dissertation which he presented to the Faculty was adversely criticised by his Professor , and he was asked to revise and amend it .
There appears to have been something of a split in the University , sides being taken for and against the merits of Galitzin 's work , and the discussion even spread to other Universities .
He once more left Russia to spend another year at Strassburg .
It cannot be asserted that the earlier scientific productions of Prince Galitzin showed signs of great originality .
They are the work of a conscientious student who pursues a systematic study of the various branches of Physics , and in his reading naturally comes across parts which are or seem obscure .
He set to work to treat the subject in an independent manner , not so much for the sake of arriving at a new result , as to satisfy himself , to clear up doubts , or to supply a more rigid investigation .
It was probably during his second visit to Strassburg that Galitzin first became interested in seismology , for Dr. E. Y. Rebeur-Paschwitz , one of the pioneers of the subject , was then at work in that University , and corresponding with Dr. Milne on an organized system of observatories .
Galitzin 's stay in Germany did not last long , as his countrymen were beginning to recognize his merit .
During the autumn of 1893 he took over the Professorship of Physics at the University of Juriev , and soon afterwards was appointed to the Directorship of the Physical Laboratory of the Imperial Academy of Science at Petrograd .
This position he held until shortly before his death .
In his laboratory he had great opportunities for experimental work , but he was fond of teaching , and also accepted the Professorship of Physics at the Naval Academy .
He was interested in the education of women , and lectured on Experimental Physics at the Women 's Medical Institu e. Galitzin 's various duties forced him to keep himself informed on all branches of Physics ; but there are indications that the theory of vibrations attracted him most .
This showed itself in his seismological and optical work .
As regards the latter we must note his investigations both theoretical and experimental on the Echelon spectroscope , which helped him in furnishing a satisfactory experimental demonstration of the apparent change of wavelength due to the motion of a radiator .
A few years previously , Belopolsky had constructed an apparatus in which a change of wave-length was produced by the reflection of sunlight from a moving system of mirrors , and what is generally called Doppler 's principle was verified in a general manner .
Replacing sunlight by the radiation from a mercury lamp , and Belopolsky 's prism spectroscope by an echelon of high resolving powers , Galitzin in conjunction with J. Wilip was able to obtain accurate numerical results proving that the calculated velocity of the mirror agreed with that directly VOL. xciv.\#151 ; a. e xxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
measured to within less than 1 per cent. Careful and detailed determinations of various absorption and emission spectra were also obtained by the collaboration of the two physicists . .
We must now pass on to his contributions to modern seismometry , which form Galitzin 's chief claim to scientific eminence .
By these researches he not only succeeded in placing a young and struggling art on a sure foundation , but the scientific accuracy and thoroughness of his work may well serve as a model for all similar work .
About 1900 , or probably before , he appears to have selected seismometry as his ultimate vocation , and his first published paper in this subject emphasizes the ideal that , as the earth movement at any point involves six quantities , viz. , three components of linear displacement and three components of rotation , an observing station ought to have six instruments to measure these .
He soon realised the difficulties of attaining this ideal , and so concentrated his efforts on the major problem of measuring the three linear components , while the minor problem of the rotations was set aside , although not forgotten .
Three main defects affected seismographs when he commenced his work .
These were ( 1 ) lack of sensitiveness , ( 2 ) incomplete and imperfect damping , ( 3 ) reliance on mechanical registration .
Galitzin appears to have introduced in succession the principles of aperiodic electromagnetic damping ( which is almost ideal ) , the principle of electromagnetic magnification ( by converting the pendulum movement to movement of a ballistic galvanometer by electric currents generated by the pendulum movement ) , and photographic registration on a very open time scale ( which had been already used by Dr. John Milne on a small scale ) .
Five or six years of pioneer work went on at Poulkovo , during which time the apparatus was perfected , the method of standardisation elaborated , the analysis and deduction of the earth movement from the seismograms systematised , and various special features elucidated .
About 1907 , Galitzin was able to announce the important result that , in accordance with the accepted view , the first observed impulse represents a longitudinal disturbance ; measurement of the amplitudes to N. or S. , and to E. or W. , recorded by the horizontal seismographs , gives the azimuth of the epicentre of an earthquake to | ' in favourable cases .
Moreover , since the distance could be determined from the observed time interval between the first and second phases by aid of Wiechert 's empirical time curves , it followed that an epicentre could be determined from " observations at a single station .
" This result was not only of practical utility , but it was also of profound importance in the theory of the internal constitution of the earth .
This was soon recognized by eminent geophysicists throughout Europe , and in 1910 Galitzin visited Paris to set up one of his horizontal pendulums in the observatory there , and this country to install two of his pendulums at Eskdalemuir Observatory .
During this visit , he became personally acquainted with Dr. John Milne , Prince Boris Galitzin .
xxix and the acquaintance soon ripened into the sincere friendship of these two great pioneers of instrumental seismometry .
We may take this opportunity to correct the erroneous impression that Milne was opposed to the damping of seismographs .
What lie objected to was mechanically imperfect damping ; but when he became aware of the excellent results obtained by Galitzin , he at once appreciated them , and we have good reasons for knowing that before his death in 1913 Milne had decided to introduce electromagnetic damping into his apparatus^ Galitzin continued to work at the various problems of geophysics which are elucidated by earthquake measurement ; such are , the significance of the angle of emergence of the rays ; the speed and damping coefficient of Rayleigh waves ; the determination of the depth of focus , and the classifica-cation of microseisms .
On the experimental side , he perfected his seismograph for the vertical component of the earth movement .
The apparatus was exhibited at the meeting of the International Seismological Association at Manchester in 1911 , when Galitzin was elected President for the ensuing three years .
Meanwhile , the Observatory of Poulkovo had been thoroughly equipped as a continuous recording seismological station , and the first weekly Bulletin was issued in January , 1912 .
It is the most comprehensive weekly bulletin that has ever been attempted , and it is issued within a few days of the completion of the week to which it refers .
The extensive Russian seismological service organized by Prince Galitzin and financed by the Russian Government was completed during the same year .
It had involved the establishment of five first order stations , and of a number of second order stations .
In 1912 Galitzin attended the celebration of the 250th anniversary of the foundation of the Royal Society .
In the same year he returned to this country to attend the meeting of the Mathematical Congress at Cambridge , and he delivered an important address .
After the meeting he paid a private visit to his friend , Mr. Walker , at Eskdalemuir .
He arrived at 8 a.m. one morning and left on the following day at 10 p.m. to catch the night mail for Paris .
Seismology was the main topic of conversation , and the idea occurred that from the azimuth determinations of epicentres at two stations , the epicentre could be uniquely determined .
Nothing would satisfy Galitzin but to work out an example forthwith .
He had the requisite data from Poulkovo in his handbag .
The result was quite satisfactory .
In the evening he took up a violin , and played with masterly touch and exquisite feeling some Scotch airs , and afterwards joined in some pianoforte duets .
He complained oi some bronchial trouble that affected his heart , but was full of enthusiasm about the new work he was to take up in Russia , and which had not yet been publicly announced .
This was the Directorship of the Russian Meteorological Service , with which he had been entrusted .
He set about the re-organisation of the department with characteristic zeal , XXX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
organised extensive observations in atmospheric electricity and a magnetic survey of the Russian Empire .
His interest in seismology did not , however , diminish , and papers continued to appear .
We may cite an examination of the value of the method of determining epicentres from azimuths at two stations , and his last paper was read at the Paris Academy of Sciences in June , 1916 ( after his death ) , in which he showed that of all the earthquakes recorded at Poulkovo , the epicentres of 18 per cent , had been determined from observations at Poulkovo alone .
Before we pass to the close of his career , we must note ( what is not generally known ) that Prince Galitzin applied his special knowledge of seismometry to the problem of the effects of local mechanical vibration on buildings , and devised special instruments for measuring the accelerating forces experienced .
The triennial meeting , of the International Association of Seismology was to take place at Petrograd in September , 19J4 , under the Presidency of Prince Galitzin .
All arrangements had been completed , and many were looking forward to the renewal of international friendships .
But in August Europe was plunged into a war that struck at the roots of international scientific unity .
The meeting had to be abandoned , and Galitzin , like others , turned to help his country in a time of need .
In January , 1915 , he wrote with much sadness , but with no bitterness , of the effect of the war on science : " I wonder when our seismological meeting will take place , and under what conditions .
It will be a very difficult and painful thing to manage , but , at all events , we Allies must stick together , and try and smooth everything , and try to get the whole business again into the swing .
" Again , in August , 1915 , he wrote , among other matters of importance in the war : " I have constructed lately an instrument which measures directly the instantaneous values of the acceleration of the ground for a quite arbitrary law of motion .
" . . .
" I have been elected Halley Lecturer at Oxford for next year , and , if the war is over then , I hope to be able to come over to England and see all my friends .
It would be such a great pleasure for me . . . .
Notwithstanding the hard times we are passing through now , everyone here is sure of final victory .
" The war not being over , he had to resign the Halley Lectureship .
In March , 1916 , he wrote again : " lam awfully busy at present with some special work concerned with the war , and I have very little time to attend pure scientific problems .
I am organising also special workshops for making all kinds of meteorological and other instruments , so as to be , as far as possible , quite independent of all foreign instrument makers .
It is a hard task , but I am working steadily at it .
" In his various letters there is no indication of any weakness of health , but it is to be feared that he overtaxed his wonderful powers of endurance .
Galitzin was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society on March 23 , 1916 , and died on May 17 of the same year .
Thus , at the early age of 54 , ended a life of great achievement and of great promise for the future .
I J. G. Darboux .
xxxi Somewhat brusque in manner , Prince Galitzin endeared himself to all true scientists in this country by his intense enthusiasm , his frank and fearless expression of opinion , his great kindliness , his appreciation of the work of others , and , perhaps not least , by his intense dislike of humbug .
A. S. G. W. W. J. G. DARBOUX , 1842-1917 .
Jean Gaston Darboux , Permanent Secretary of the Paris Academy of Sciences , who died on February 25 , 1917 , was born at Nimes on August 13 , 1842 , in a house which had once been a chapel of the cathedral .
His father having died in 1849 , he and his younger brother were brought up under the care of their mother , and their earliest education they received at the local Lyc4e , which they attended as day-boarders .
In 1859 young Darboux entered the special class for mathematics at the Lycee of Montpellier , and in 1861 he headed the lists for admission to the Ecole Normale Superieure and the $cole Polytechnique .
Of these two schools he chose the former , somewhat to the surprise of his friends , his decision being based upon a strong inclination towards the teaching profession , to which the Nicole Normale was the recognised avenue .
At that time Pasteur was the director of the scientific studies of the school , and he became interested in Darboux , whom he recognised as a promising recruit .
Owing to the influence of Pasteur , after the usual three years ' course , Darboux was enabled to remain two years longer as the holder of a teaching post created for him .
During this period he gave decided evidence of his capacity for advancing mathematical science in the work he sent up to the professors of the school , and he made a profound study of the works of such writers as Monge , Gauss , Poncelet , Dupin , Lame , and Jacobi .
In 1864 he published a note on orthogonal surfaces in the ' Comptes Rendus , ' and in 1866 there was presented to the Sorbonne , as a thesis for the doctorate , his memoir " Sir les Surfaces Orthogonales .
" On the work contained in this thesis he received the congratulations of Chasles , Serret , and Bouquet .
In 1866-67 he assisted Bertrand in the work of the Chair of Mathematical Physics at the College de France , and during the years 1868-1872 lie was Professor at the Lycee Louis le Grand , where Bouquet was his colleague .
During this period his pupils were remarkably successful in attaining their practical aims , although the original form of his teaching VOL. XC1V.\#151 ; A. f xxxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
was such that its reference to the exigencies of examinations was only indirect .
In 1872 he became Maitre de Conferences at the Ecole Normale , and in 1873 he became assistant to Liouville at the Sorbonne in the Chair of Eational Mechanics ; among his pupils at this time were Appell and Picard .
His already established reputation gave him considerable influence amongst the mathematicians of the Ecole Normale , and his clear and elegant exposition of general mechanics at the Sorbonne did much to renovate the teaching of that subje.ct in France .
On the death of Chasles in 1880 , Darboux was appointed as his successor in the Chair of Higher Geometry at the Sorbonne .
His success not only as professor , but also as an organiser , led to his appointment in 1889 , by the Minister of Public Instruction , on the nomination of his professional colleagues , as Doyen de la Faculte des Sciences de Paris , a post which gave full scope to his powers in the work of organisation of the University of Paris .
In 1884 he received the great honour of being elected member of the Academy of Sciences in the section of Geometry , the necessary report on his scientific work being composed by Jordan .
In 1900 he succeeded Joseph Bertrand in his office of Perpetual Secretary of the Academy of Sciences .
His remarkable powers as an administrator gave him a position of great authority in this position , in which he exhibited the most untiring zeal for the advance of science and for the prestige of the Academy .
He excelled in the public orations which it was his duty to pronounce on the death of such members as Bertrand , Hermit , and H. Poincare .
He had the great satisfaction of seeing carried out the project , in which he had long been interested , of printing the MS .
proces-verbaux of the sittings of the Academy since the foundation of the Institute in the year IX up to 1835 , when the 'Comptes Bendus9 were commenced .
Up to the present , seven volumes , up to 1825 , have been published ; these are of special interest , as containing the work of Lagrange , Laplace , Monge , Cuvier , Lamarck , and other distinguished men .
For 17 years Darboux presided over the Society of the Amiss des Sciences , a Society founded in 1857 by Baron Thenard for the purpose of aiding men of science in need of pecuniary help .
In his mathematical investigations , Darboux both originated new ideas , and also carried out detailed investigations on previously established lines .
His expository style was artistic in form , and , while he knew how to utilise the detailed investigation of particular examples , in order to rise by observation and induction to generality of conception , his keen sense of proportion prevented any undue prolixity in his writings , and the detailed consequences of the ideas developed in some of his memoirs were left to be drawn by others .
He possessed in a high degree the faculty of discerning relations between superficially diverse questions and methods , and thus of exhibiting the fundamental identity which often exists of theories originally developed independently of one another .
His early work on orthogonal surfaces , in the course of which he discovered an orthogonal system of surfaces of the fourth degree , was contained in the thesis already referred to ; J. G. Darboux .
xxxiii this subject , the importance of which , in relation to mathematical physics , had been traced out by Lame , is one to which he frequently returned in later years .
In 1873 he published his researches on analytical geometry in a work " Sir un Class Remarquable des Courbes et des Surfaces Algdbriques .
" The principal aim of this work was the study of a class of surfaces , termed cyclides , which have as double line the circle at infinity .
The work also deals with plane and spherical cyclics , and , in a note at the end , the differential equation of surfaces applicable to a given surface is formed .
The theory of cyclides has been later shown to be of much importance in the theory of the solutions of Laplace 's equation applicable to various classes of problems in the theory of the potential .
A very remarkable and original memoir was published in 1876 on the approximation to functions of very large numbers .
In this memoir , which is of importance in relation to applications in various directions , Darboux established methods for determining the order of magnitude of the coefficients of power-series from a study of the singularities on the circle of convergence , and he studied developments in series of polynomials arising from hypergeometric series .
In 1870 there appeared the memoir containing Darboux 's new method of integration of partial differential equations of the second order .
This work , the most important on the subject since that of Ampere in 1818 , has been of much influence in more recent investigations on the subject .
The memoir on discontinuous functions , published in 1875 , with a supplement in 1878 , contained a critical study of the Riemann definition of an integral , and established for the first time the existence of the upper and the lower integral of any bounded function ; the memoir also contains various examples of continuous functions without derivatives .
Darboux 's monumental work on Differential Geometry , published in four volumes , between 1887 and 1896 , under the title , 'Leqons sir la Th^orie Gen4rale des Surfaces et les Applications Georiffitriques du Calcul Infinitesimal , ' contains , in a fascinating form , an account of his own researches in Differential Geometry , together with those of his predecessors .
In 1898 he commenced the publication of his work , ' Leqons sir les Systemes Orthogonaux et les Coordonnees Curvilignes/ which supplements and completes the earlier work .
In his geometrical work Darboux exhibits an unsurpassed power of combining geometry and analysis , so that the different points of view support and supplement one another .
The theory of geodesic lines led him to consider various questions in Analytical Dynamics connected with the principle of Least Action .
He published a memoir on the herpolhode and the theory of Poinsot , and also wrote on the postulates of the statical proofs of the parallelogram of forces , and on the percussion and collision of bodies .
He appended a series of elegant notes to an edition of Despeyrous ' c Course de M^canique .
' In 1904 he gave an historical lecture at the Exhibition at St. Louis , in which he sketched the progress of geometry in the Nineteenth Century .
In xxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
1908 , at the Rome Congress of Mathematicians , he gave a remarkable discourse on the origin , methods , and problems of Infinitesimal Geometry .
In the last year of his life he gave a course of lectures at the Sorbonne on the principles of Analytical Geometry , with special reference to the place of the Imaginary and the Infinite in Geometry .
He intended that these lectures should be incorporated in a book to be edited by himself .
As Secretary of the Academy des Sciences , Darboux was brought into contact with other branches of science , and took an active part in international scientific organisations .
At international meetings , which he frequently attended , his warm interest in the progress of science , the quiet dignity of his sympathetic personality , and his unfailing wisdom and tact helped to surmount difficulties and to ensure success .
Darboux was a member of a very large number of Academies and Scientific Societies , and was an Honorary Doctor of the Universities of Cambridge , Christiania , and Heidelberg .
In 1900 he was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society , and in December , 1916 , he was awarded the Sylvester Medal .
This last recognition gave him genuine pleasure .
The acknowledgment of its receipt was dictated a few hours before his death .
E. W. H. WILLIAM DU BOIS DUDDELL , 1872-1917 .
Born in 1872 , and educated in England and France , Duddell served his apprenticeship as engineer to Messrs. Davey , Paxman , and Co. , of Colchester .
He then went to the City and Guilds Institute at the age of 21 .
He stayed there for some years , as he found the facilities for experimental work were very good , and of exceptional value to him .
Joubert had devised a method of tracing alternating pressure or current variations by balancing a series of phases of a period against a standard cell , by a potentiometer bridge .
Duddell produced a galvanometer which is quick enough to follow the variations , and to show the curve by a light spot , or to photograph it .
This brought him into prominence as a first-rate designer of special instruments .
The next important work was an investigation , with Prof. Merchant , of the ratio of the pressure to the current in the arc , generally called " the resistance .
" This led to the discovery of the singing arc .
The singing arc is the basis of a system of generating continuous waves for wireless telegraphy .
The arc is made to sing a note so high that it cannot be heard , but not high enough to be seen .
The Poulsen generator is a development of this principle , and so is the valve type of transmitter .
XXXV Sir John Wolf Barry .
Duddell was a master of the design and making of delicate special instruments .
He had a thorough grasp of first principles , the inventiveness of the trained engineer , and had , in addition , the highest skill as a workman .
He was an authority on many branches of electrical engineering , but especially on wireless telegraphy .
Here his mathematical knowledge , combined with his clear grasp of the physical aspect of electrical phenomena , put him in the first rank .
Like most clear-headed people , he was a master of exposition .
As a witness in the law-courts he was very valuable .
He had the judicial type of mind , so that he gave his evidence with perfect fairness , and that , coupled with his simple lucidity of explanation , made him an ideal witness in technical cases .
In estimating our loss , we must think of what he did , also as an earnest of what he would have done .
He was only 45 when he died on November 4 , 1917 , and the last three years of his life were largely spent on secret Government work .
To place him , we must compare his work with that done by others before they were 42 .
Duddell was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers when only 40 , being the youngest President , and he was re-elected to serve a second year .
He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1912 .
J. S. Sir JOHN WOLF BARRY ( 1836-1918 ) .
The death of Sir John Wolf Barry on January 22 , in his eighty-second year , removes from the engineering profession one of its most distinguished members , who by his ability , energy , and varied experience , and by his high character , had acquired the position of a leader amongst the civil engineers of his time .
The youngest son of Sir Charles Barry , R.A. , the architect of the Houses of Parliament , he was educated at Trinity College , Glenalmond , and at King 's College , London .
He was a pupil of Sir John Hawkshaw , and afterwards assistant resident engineer under him on the Charing Cross and Cannon Street Railway , and for the bridges over the Thames connected with it .
In 1867 , he started in private practice , devoting himself largely to the construction of railways , bridges , and docks .
It is not possible to enumerate all the important enterprises in which he was concerned in an executive or consultative capacity .
Amongst them may be mentioned the Earl 's Court Station of the Metropolitan District Railway and the extension of that railway to Ealing and Fulham ; the Lewes and East Grinstead Railway ; the VOL. xciv.\#151 ; a. .
a xxxvi Obituary Notices of JFellows deceased .
Inner Circle extension between the Mansion House , Aldgate , and Whitechapel , a work of great difficulty ; the Blaekfriars arched railway bridge ; the Tower Bridge , with its very successful bascule opening span , in association with the late Sir Horace Jones ; the King Edward VII Bridge at Kew ; the Barry docks and railways ; the Grangemouth dock ; the entrance lock and graving dock at Immingham ; at Newport extensive works for the Alexandra Dock and Railway Company ; and the Avonmouth Docks at Bristol ; also the Natal harbour works and dock and railway works in China , Buenos Airs , and India .
He took , at an early date , an interest in electric traction on railways , and in 1899 persuaded the Metropolitan Companies to permit him to make an experimental installation to work the trains between Earl 's Court and High Street , Kensington .
Sir John was a Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers for 50 years , on its Council for 34 years , and its President in 1896-7 ; his authority in its concerns and the value of his services can scarcely be over-rated .
He became F.R.S. in 1895 , C.B. in 1894 on the completion of the Tower Bridge , and K.C.B. in 1897 in recognition of his many public services .
He was Chairman of Council of the Society of Arts in 1898-9 .
He was a Member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers from 1871 , and took much interest in its activities .
Sir John gave ungrudging assistance in all public undertakings and enquiries involving engineering considerations , and had great influence in promoting the commercial and industrial prosperity of the country .
He was Chairman of the Lower Thames Navigation Commission appointed in 1894 , member of the Port of London Commission 1900-2 , of the Commission on Irish Public Works 1886 , of the Western Highlands and Islands Commission 1889 , and the Traffic of London Commission 1903-5 .
He was a member of the Court of Arbitration for the purchase of the waterworks undertakings in London , when they were vested in the Metropolitan Water Board .
He and Sir Charles Hartley were the representatives of the British Government on the International Commission of Works of the Suez Canal , 1892-T906 .
He was a colonel in the Engineer and Railway Volunteer Staff Corps .
He was Deputy-Lieutenant for the county of London , and Chairman of the Eastern and Western Telegraph Companies .
One of the greatest services rendered by Sir John Wolf Barry to engineering industries was the part he took in initiating and directing the activities of the Engineering Standards Committee .
It was mainly due to his insight and wide influence that representatives of Government departments , registration societies , engineers , manufacturers , shipbuilders , and others were brought together , and have freely given their time and experience in dealing with the complex problems of standardisation , a work of the greatest national importance .
Sir John , in 1917 , in a lecture to the Institution of Civil Engineers , gave an account of the work of the Standards Committee during 16 years and its influence on the prosperity of the Sir John Wolf Barry .
xxxvii country .
Started in a tentative way , with the object of reducing the wholly unnecessary number of rolled sections of steel bars and rails produced by manufacturers to meet the wishes or whims of different engineers and architects , it was soon found necessary to draw up complete specifications of quality and of the tests of acceptance to which materials should be subjected .
The work of the Committee soon extended in other directions , especially to the standardisation of machines , fittings , and tests of efficiency in the electrical industry .
Types of locomotives were standardised for railways in India at the request of the Indian Government .
The main committee now consists of 22 members , representative of the great professional societies , and there are 64 sectional and sub-committees having in the aggregate more than 500 members .
Practically all persons interested are represented , and have a consultative voice in proposals for any particular standardisation .
The specifications are published , and , when necessary , revised annually .
Sir John Wolf Barry pointed out in his lecture that it was difficult to estimate exactly the beneficial results of standardisation , but that he was justified in saying that they have been immense in facilitating production and cheapening output , while securing excellence in the scientific composition of materials and accuracy of workmanship .
Thus , in the case of Portland cement , whereas formerly very many different specifications were imposed on manufacturers by different users , involving modifications in processes of production , practically now the whole output is made to one standard specification .
In the case of rolled sections for construction , shipbuilding , and railway and tramway rails , the annual output before the war was 3,700,000 tons , valued at \#163 ; 25,000,000 .
Of this , now more than 85 per cent , is rolled to standard sections and specifications .
The war has raised serious questions as to the security in the future of our foreign trade .
Under Sir John Wolf Barry 's guidance , the Standards Committee has undertaken the task of translating the .Standard Specifications into French , Spanish , and Portuguese , and converting British into metric measures .
It also contemplates the establishment in twelve important foreign trading centres , of local committees in touch with the London organisation , and concerned with the promotion of British interests .
Sir John Wolf Barry took a great interest in efforts to raise the scientific qualifications of civil engineers .
It was at his instance that the Institution of Civil Engineers adopted an examination scheme , so that candidates for admission to the Society must now pass an educational test as well as a scrutiny of their experience in constructional work .
He was a Governor of the Imperial College of Science and Technology and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the City and Guilds College .
For a time he was a Member of the Senate of London University .
Sir John took an active part in the foundation of the National Physical Laboratory , was a member of its Executive Committee , and greatly assisted it in obtaining the funds required for carrying on its work , and in making xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
it the expert authority in scientific questions arising in connection with standardisation .
It would not be just to close this notice without a reference to Sir John Wolf Barry 's unfailing urbanity and his readiness to assist other engineers , and to place his unrivalled stores of information at their disposal .
He was jealous of the honour and proud of the progress of his profession , and it would be difficult to overestimate the influence he wielded , or the extent to which he raised the work of engineers in the estimation of Government departments and the public .
.1 In 1874 Sir John married Rosalind Grace , daughter of the Rev. E. E. Rowsell , Rector of Hambledon , Surrey .
He had four sons and three daughters , all of whom survive .
W..C .
u. I Fibres , textile ( Harrison ) , 460 .
Flocculation ( Pickering ) , 315 .
Fowler ( A. ) The Presence in the Solar Spectrum of the Water-vapour Band X 3064 , 472 ; ----and Gregory ( C. C. L. ) The Ultra-violet Band of Ammonia , and its Occurrence in the Solar Spectrum , 470 .
Functions , Bessel ( Watson ) , 190 .
Galitzin ( Prince B. ) Obituary notice of , xxv .
* Gases , discharge of , under high pressures ( Hartshorn ) , 155 .
Geneau ( C. ) See Hadfield , Ch^neveau , and Geneau .
Gray ( A. ) Note on New Gyroscopic Phenomenon , 220 .
Greenhill ( Sir G. ) The Eankine Trochoidal Wave , 238 .
Gregory ( C. C. L. ) See Fowler and Gregory .
Gyroscopic phenomenon ( Hind ) , 218 ; ( Gray ) , 220 .
Hadcock ( A. G. ) Internal Ballistics , 479 .
Hadfield ( Sir B. ) , Ch6neveau ( C. ) and Geneau ( C. ) A Contribution to the Study of the Magnetic Properties of Manganese and of some Special Manganese Steels , 65 .
Harrison ( W. ) Investigations on Textile Fibres , 460 .
Hartshorn ( L. ) The Discharge of Gases under High Pressures , 155 .
Heat , nature of , as deducible from Carnot 's postulate ( Larmor ) , 326 .
High-angle fire , graphical solution for ( Whitehead ) , 301 .
Hind ( E. E. T. ) On a New Gyroscopic Phenomenon , 218 .
Houstoun ( B. A. ) A Statistical Survey of Colour Vision , 576 .
Integral equations , numerical solution of ( Whittaker ) , 367 .
Interference bands and colours of tempered steel ( Mallock ) , 561 .
Ions produced by spraying of water ( Nolan ) , 112 .
Joly ( J. ) A Method of avoiding Collision at Sea , 547 .
Larmor ( Sir J. ) On the Nature of Heat , as directly Deducible from the Postulate of Carnot , 326 .
Laurie ( A. P. ) and Banken ( C. ) Investigation into the Imbibition Exhibited by some Shellac Derivatives , 53 .
Levy ( H. ) See Cowley and Levy .
Light , scattering media in diffused ( Channon , etc. ) , 222 ; - scattering of , by spherical shells , etc. ( Bayleigh ) , 296 ; - scattering by dust-free air ( Strutt ) , 453 .
Lommel-Weber O function and problem of electric waves on thin anchor ring ( Airey ) , 307 .
Lorentz electron , electromagnetic inertia of ( Schott ) , 422 .
Magnetic storm of December 16-17 , 1917 ( Chree ) , 525 .
Mallock ( A. ) Note on certain Coloured Interference Bands and the Colours of Tempered Steel , 561 .
Manganese and manganese steels , magnetic properties of ( Hadfield and others ) , 65 .
Medals awarded , 188 .
Night-blindness , two cases of congenital ( Abney ) , 59 .
Noble ( Sir A. ) Obituary notice of , i. Nolan ( J. J. ) The Nature of the Ions Produced by the Spraying of Water , 112 .
xli Obituary Notices :\#151 ; Noble , Sir A. , i. Thompson , S. P. , xvi .
Backlund , J. O. , xx .
Galitzin , Prince B. , xxv .
Darboux , J. G. , xxxi .
Duddell , W. du B. , xxxiv .
Wolf e-Barry , Sir J. , xxxv .
Owen ( E. A. ) The Absorption of the Radiation emitted by a Palladium Anticathode in Rhodium , Palladium , and Silver , 339 ; ----- The Absorption of X-rays , 510 .
Ozone and ultra-violet transparency of lower atmosphere ( Strutt ) , 260 .
Photo-electric action of X-rays ( Richardson ) , 269 .
Pickering ( S. U. ) Flocculation , 315 .
Point-potential , expansion of the ( Conway ) , 436 .
Radiation , problems in theory of ( Schuster ) , 281 ; -------- emitted by palladium anticathode , absorption of ( Owen ) , 339 .
Ranken ( C. ) See Laurie and Ranken .
Rayleigh ( Lord ) On the Scattering of Light by Spherical Shells , and by Complete Spheres of Periodic Structure , when the Refractivity is Small , 296 .
Renwick ( F. F. ) See Channon , Renwick and Storr .
Richardson ( O. W. ) The Photo-electric Action of X-Rays , 269 .
Russell ( A. ) The Electrostatic Problem of a Conducting Sphere in a Spherical Cavity , Schott ( G. A. ) The Electromagnetic Inertia of the Lorentz Electron , 422 .
Schuster ( A. ) Some Problems in the Theory of Radiation , 281 .
Selenic acid and iron ( Tutton ) , 352 ; monoclinic double selenates ( Tutton ) , 362 .
Series of Legendre ( Young ) , 292 .
Shaw ( P. E. ) Experiments on Tribo-Electricity .
I.\#151 ; The Tribo-Electric Series , 16 .
Shaw ( Sir N. ) Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere , 34 .
Shellac derivatives , imbibition exhibited by ( Laurie and Ranken ) , 53 .
Sky , artificial reproduction of blue ( Strutt ) , 453 .
Smith ( S. W. J. ) Note on Abney 's Paper on Fourth Colourless Sensation , 10 .
Soddy ( F. ) and Cranston ( J. A. ) The Parent of Actinium , 384 .
Solar spectrum , ultra-violet band of ammonia in ( Fowler and Gregory ) , 470 ; --------water-vapour band in ( Fowler ) , 472 .
Storr ( B. Y. ) See Channon , Renwick and Storr .
Struts and structures , critical loading of ( Cowley and Levy ) , 405 .
Strutt ( Hon. R. J. ) Duration of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours : Further Studies , 88 ; --------Ultra-violet Transparency of the Lower Atmosphere and its Relative Poverty in Ozone , 260 ; ---------Scattering of Light by Dustfree Air , with Artificial Reproduction of the Blue Sky.\#151 ; Preliminary Note , 453 .
Taylor ( G. I. ) Phenomena connected with Turbulence in the Lower Atmosphere , 137 .
Terazawa ( K. ) Periodic Disturbance of Level arising from the Load of Neighbouring Oceanic Tides , 13 .
Thompson ( S. P. ) Obituary notice of , xvi .
Thomson ( Sir J. J. ) Presidential Address , November 30 , 1917 , 182 .
Tides , disturbances of level from load of ( Terazawa ) , 13 .
Tribo-electricity , experiments on ( Shaw ) , 16 .
Tutton ( A. E. H. ) Selenic Acid and Iron.\#151 ; Reduction of Selenic Acid by Nascent Hydrogen , etc.\#151 ; Preparation of Ferrous Selenate , etc. , 352 ; Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Iron Group , 362 .
206 .
xlii Water-level in well , and barometric pressure , relation between ( Bilham ) , 165 ; ------diurnal variations of ( Bilham ) , 476 .
Watson ( G. N. ) The Zeros of Bessel Functions , 190 .
Wave , Rankine trochoidal ( Greenhill ) , 238 .
* Whitehead ( A. N. ) Graphical Solution for High-Angle Fire , 301 .
Whittaker ( E. T. ) On the Numerical Solution of Integral Equations , 367 .
Williams ( C. M. ) On the Absorption of X-Rays in Copper and Aluminium , 567 .
Wolfe-Barry ( Sir J. ) Obituary notice of , xxxv .
X-rays , photo-electric action of ( Richardson ) , 269 ; -----absorption of ( Owen ) , 510 ; ----in copper and aluminium ( Williams ) , 567 .
Young ( W. H. ) On the Series of Legendre , 292 .
END OF THE NINETY-FOURTH VOLUME ( SERIES A ) .
Harrison and Sons , Printers in Ordinary to His Majesty , St. Martin 's Lane .
i \ MINUTES OF MEETINGS.\#151 ; SESSION 1917-18 .
November 1 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Reflection of Light from a Regularly Stratified Medium .
" By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. II .
" Two Cases of Congenital Night-Blindness .
" By Sir William Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. III .
" Duration of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and VTapours.\#151 ; Further Studies .
" By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. IV .
\lt ; c Surface Reflection of Earthquake Waves .
" By G. W. Walker , F.R.S. V. " Characteristic Frequency and Atomic Number .
" By LI .
S. Allen , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. 0 .
W. Richardson , F.R.S. VI .
" Historical Note on a Relation between the Gravitational Attraction Exercised and the Elastic Depression Caused by Load on the Plane Surface of an Isotropic Elastic Solid .
" By C. Chree , F.R.S. November 8 , 1917 .
, * .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , Prof. W. E. Dalby , Sir Mostyn Field , , and Mr. R. D. Oldham were elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Galvanometric Measurement of 'Emotional ' Physiological Changes .
" By Prof. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. II .
The Structure , Evolution , and Origin of the Amphibia .
Part I.\#151 ; The 'Orders ' Eachitomi and StereospondyliBy D. M. S. Watson .
Communicated by Prof. J. P. Hill , F.R.S. III .
" The Enzymes concerned in the Decomposition of Glucose and Mannitol by Bacillus coli communis .
Part II.\#151 ; Experiments of Short Duration with an Emulsion of the Organisms .
' Part III.\#151 ; Various Phases in the Decomposition of Glucose by an Emulsion of the Organisms .
" By E. C. Grey .
Communicated by Dr. A. Harden , F.R.S. November 15 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
The following Papers were read I. " On a New Gyroscopic Phenomenon .
" By E. E. Tournay Hind .
Communicated by Prof. A. Schuster , Sec. R.S. ( Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. , exhibited the experiment ) .
II .
" Investigation into the Imbibition exhibited by some Shellac Derivatives .
" By A. P. Laurie and C. Ranken .
Communicated by Prof. J. Walker , F.R.S. III .
" Phenomena Connected with Turbulence in the Lower Atmosphere .
" By G. I. Taylor .
Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. IV .
" On the Relation between Barometric Pressure and the Water Level in a Well at Kew Observatory .
" By E. G. Bilham .
Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. November 22 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
A Special General Meeting of the Society was held to receive the Annual Report of the Council .
iii November 22 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Sir Joseph John Thomson , O.M. , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; Sir Alfred Bray Kempe , M.A. , D.C.L. Secretaries.\#151 ; { Prof. Arthur Schuster , Sc. D. , Ph. D. William Bate Hardy , M.A. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Prof. William Abbott Herdman , D.Sc .
Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Hugh Kerr Anderson , M.D. ; Sir George Thomas Beilby ; Prof. Gilbert Charles Bourne , D.Sc .
; Prof. Arthur Robertson Cushny , M.D. ; Martin Onslow Forster , D.Sc .
; Prof. Percy Faraday Frankland , LL. D. ; James Whitbread Lee Glaisher , Sc. D. ; Prof. Bertram Hopkinson , M.Inst .
C.E. ; James Hopwood Jeans ; Prof. William Henry Lang , D.Sc .
; Major Henry George Lyons ; William Halse Rivers Rivers , M.D. ; Prof. Charles Scott Sherrington , M.D. ; Prof , the Hon. Robert John Strutt , M.A. ; James Swinburne , M.Inst .
C.E. ; Prof. William Whitehead Watts , LL. D. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Bactericidal Properties Conferred on the Blood by Intravenous Injections of Diamino-acridine Sulphate .
" By C. H. Browning and R. Gulbransen .
Communicated by Prof. R. Muir , F.R.S. " II .
" The Pelmatoporime : An Essay on the Evolution of a Group of Cretaceous Polyzoa .
" By W. D. Lang .
Communicated by Dr. F. A. Bather , F.R.S. iv November 30 , 1917 .
Anniversary Meeting .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The Report of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts was read , and the thanks of the Society were given to the Treasurer and to the Auditors .
The List of Fellows deceased and the List of Fellows elected into the Society since the last Anniversary were read .
The Report to the Societjr from the Council , upon the work during the past year , was , upon the motion of the President , received .
The President delivered his Anniversary Address .
On the motion of Sir R. Glazebrook , seconded by Sir A. Evans , the thanks of the Society were voted to the President for his Address , and he was requested to allow it to be printed .
The Awards of the Medals for the year were announced as follows , and the Medals were presented from the Chair:\#151 ; The Copley Medal ... A Royal Medal ... . .
A Royal Medal ... . .
The Davy Medal ... The Buchanan Medal The Hughes Medal i The President having , with the consent of the Society , nominated Prof. J. B. Farmer and Prof. J. C. McLennan as Scrutators to examine the balloting lists for the election of Council and Officers , the votes of the Fellows present were taken .
The Scrutators reported that the Council and Officers nominated at the preceding meeting had been duly elected .
The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators .
To Prof. Emile Roux .
, , Dr. John Aitken .
, , Dr. A. Smith Woodward .
, , Prof. Albin Haller .
" Sir Almroth Wright .
" Prof. C. G. Barkla .
December 6 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed the following Vice-Presidents :\#151 ; Sir Alfred Kempe ( Treasurer ) .
Prof. P. F. Frankland .
Dr. J. W. L. Glaisher .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Series of Legendre .
" By Prof. W. H. Young , F.R.S. II .
" The Discharge of Gases under High Pressures .
" By L. Haktshorn .
Communicated by the Hon. E. J. Strutt , F.R.S. III .
" Internal Ballistics .
" By Lieut.-Col. A. G. Hadcock .
Communicated by Sir George Greenhill , F.R.S. IV .
" The Electrostatic Problem of a Conducting Sphere in a Spherical Cavity .
" By Alexander Russell , D.Sc .
Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. V. " The Zeros of Bessel Functions .
" By Prof. G. N. Watson .
Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. December 13 , 1917 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Formation of Nitrites from Nitrates in Aqueous Solution by the Action of Sunlight and the Assimilation of the Nitrites by Green Leaves in Sunlight .
" By Prof. B. Moore , F.R.S. II .
" The Transition from Rostrocarinate Flint Implements to the Tongue-shaped Implements of River-terrace Gravels .
" By J. R. Morn. Communicated by Sir Ray Lankester , K. C.B. , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 24 , 1918 .
vi ft January 24 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of Candidates for election into the Society were read as follows :\#151 ; Abell , Westcott Stile .
Agar , Wilfred Eade .
Anderson , Alexander .
Annandale , Nelson .
Appleyard , Kollo .
Bainbridge , Francis Arthur .
Barger , George .
Berry , Arthur .
Bolton , Charles .
Borradaile , Lancelot Alexander .
Bose , Sir Jagadis Chunder .
Bryce , Thomas Hasty .
Buckmaster , George Alfred .
Burnside , William Snow .
Caiman , William Thomas .
Campbell , Albert .
Carpenter , Charles .
Carpenter , Henry Cort Harold .
Cathcart , Edward Pro van .
Chapman , Alfred Chaston .
Chapman , Thomas Algernon .
Close , Sir Charles Frederick .
Cole , Frank Joseph .
Conyngham , Gerald Ponsonby Lennox .
Davidson , Sir James Mackenzie .
Dobell , Cecil Clifford .
Dreyer , Georges .
Duckworth , Wynfrid Laurence Henry .
Eecles , William Henry .
Edridge-Green , Frederick William .
Farmer , Robert Crosbie .
Forbes , Henry Hog .
Gardner , John Addyman .
Gemmell , James Fairlie .
Gold , Ernest .
Graham-Smith , George Stuart .
Greenwood , Major .
Gregory , Reginald Philip .
Guppy , Henry Brougham .
Hadcock , Albert George .
Henderson , James B. Henry , Augustine .
Heron-Alien , Edward .
Hewlett , Richard Tanner .
Hill , Archibald Vivian .
Hill , Arthur William .
Hilton , Harold .
Horrocks , William Heaton .
Hoyle , William Evans .
Hume , William Frazer .
Hutchinson , Arthur .
Irvine , James Colquhoun .
Jackson , Louis Charles .
Kitchen , Finlay Lorimer .
Laurie , Arthur Lilians .
Lawson , Abercrombie Anstruther .
Leathern , John Gaston .
Lefroy , Harold Maxwell .
Lewis , Thomas .
Locke , Frank Spiller .
Marshall , Francis Hugh Adam .
Matthew , William Diller .
Maw , William Henry .
Mellor , Joseph William .
Merton , Thomas Ralph .
Mill , Hugh Robert .
Moss , Charles Edward .
Mummery , John Howard .
Ogilvie-Grant , William Robert .
Orton , Kennedy Joseph Previte .
Parsons , Hon. Richard Clear .
Perkins , Robert Cyril Layton .
Philip , James Charles .
Plummer , Henry Crozier .
Ramanujan , Srinivasa .
Ray , Prafulla Chandra .
Redwood , Sir Boverton .
Reed , Frederick Richard Cowper .
Ritchie , James .
Rogers , Arthur William .
vii Rose , Sir Thomas Kirk .
Russell , Alexander .
Seligman , Charles Gabriel .
Senier , Alfred .
Shaw , Philip Eager ton .
Sidgwick , Nevil Vincent .
Skeats , Ernest Willington .
Smiles , Samuel .
Smith , Major-General Frederick .
Smith , Frank Edward .
Spencer , Leonard James .
Steel , Bertram Dillon .
Stephens , John William Watson Thornton , William Mundell .
Vernon , Horace Middleton .
Vickers , Albert .
Watson , David Meredith S. Watson , George Neville .
Wheeler , Richard Vernon .
Whytlaw-Gray , Robert .
Willcox , William Henry .
Willis , John Christopher .
Wilson , Ernest .
Wood , Thomas Barlow .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Graphical Solution for High-angle Fire .
" By Prof. A. N. Whitehead , F.R.S. II .
" On Flocculation .
" By Spencer Pickering , F.R.S. III .
" Revolving Fluid in the Atmosphere .
" By Dr. J. Aitken , F.R.S. IV .
" Ultra-violet Transparency of the Lower Atmosphere and its Relative Poverty in Ozone .
" By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. V. " The Presence in the Solar Spectrum of the Water-vapour Band X 3064 .
" By Prof. A. Fowler , F.R.S. VI .
" The Ultra-violet Band of Ammonia and its Occurrence in the Solar Spectrum .
" By Prof. A. Fowler , F.R.S. , and C. C. L. Gregory .
January 31 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , followed by Sir DAVID BRUCE , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Growth of Trees , with a Note on Interference Bands formed by Rays at Small Angles .
" By A. Mallock , F.R.S. II .
" Action of Light Rays on Organic Compounds and the Photosynthesis of Organic from Inorganic Compounds in Presence of Inorganic Colloids .
" By Professor B. Moore , F.R.S. , and T. A. Webster .
III .
" The Isolation and Serological Differentiation of Bacillus tctani " By Captain W. J. TuLLOCH , R.A.M.C. , Communicated by Sir David Bruce , F.R.S. IV .
" An Investigation into the Periodicity of Measles Epidemics in the Different Districts of London for the Years 1890\#151 ; 1912 .
" By J. Brownlee , M.D. Communicated by Sir Walter Fletcher , F.R.S. viii February 7 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Photo-electric Action of X-Rays .
" By Prof. 0 .
W. Richardson , F.R.S. II .
" The Parent of Actinium .
" By Prof. F. Soddy , F.R.S. , and J. A. Cranston .
III .
" Some Problems in the Theory of Radiation .
" By Prof. Arthur Schuster , Sec. R.S. IV .
" The Absorption of the Radiation emitted by a Palladium Anticathode in Rhodium , Palladium , and Silver .
" By E. A. Owen .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. February 14 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 .
" The Artificial Production of Echinoderm LarVai with Two Water-vascular Systems , and also of Larvae Devoid of a Water-vascular System .
" By Prof. E. W. MacBride , F.R.S. II .
" On the Quantitative Differences in the Water-conductivity of the Wood in Trees and Shrubs .
" By Prof. J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. III .
u On the Efficiency of Muscular Work .
" By Capt. M. Greenwood .
Communicated by Prof. L. Hill , F.R.S. February 21 , 1918 .
* Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Scattering of Light by Spherical Shells , and by Complete Spheres of Periodic Structure , when the Refractivity is Small .
" By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. II .
" On the Nature of Heat as Directly Deducible from the Postulate of Carnot .
" By Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. .
ix III .
" Curved Beams--- By J. J. Guest .
Communicated by Prof. W. E. Dalby , F.R.S. IV .
" On Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Iron Group .
" By Dr. A. E. H. Tutton , F.R.S. V. " Selenic Acid and Iron.\#151 ; Reduction of Selenic Acid by Nascent Hydrogen and Hydrogen Sulphide.\#151 ; Preparation of Ferrous Selenate and Double Selenates of Iron Group .
" By Dr. A. E. H. Tutton , F.R.S. February 28 , 1918 .
* Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
Prof. William Wallace Campbell , Dr. Grove Karl Gilbert , Prof. Luigi Luciani , Prof. Jean Perrin , and Prof. Paul Sabatier were elected Foreign Members of the Society .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows :\#151 ; Bolton , Charles .
Carpenter , Henry Cort Harold .
Chapman , Thomas Algernon .
Conyngham , Gerald Ponsonby Lenox .
Dobell , Cecil Clifford .
Gold , Ernest .
Guppy , Henry Brougham .
Hadcock , Albert George .
Hill , Archibald Vivian .
Irvine , James Colquhoun .
Lewis , Thomas .
Ramanujan , Srinivasa .
Rogers , Arthur William .
Smiles , Samuel .
Smith , Frank Edward .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Scattering of Light by Dust-free Air , with Artificial Reproduction of Blue Sky.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
" By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. II .
" The Lommel-Weber 12 Function and its Application to the Problem of Electric Waves on a Thin Anchor Ring .
" By J. R. Airey , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. III .
" Investigations on Textile Fibres .
" By W. Harrison .
Communicated by Prof. W. H. Brag , F.R.S. IV .
" Critical Loading of Strutts and Structures .
" By W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Communicated by Sir Richard Glazebrook , F.R.S. X March 7 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Numerical Solution of Integral Equations .
" By Prof. E. T. Whittaker , F.R.S. II .
" On the Cesaro Convergence of Restricted Fourier Series .
" By Prof. W. H. Young , F.R.S. III .
" On Non-Harmonic Trigonometrical Series .
" By Prof. W. H. Young , F.R.S. IV .
" The Electromagnetic Inertia of the Lorentz Electron .
" By Prof. G. A. Schott .
Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. V. " Researches on Growth and Movement in Plants by Means of the High Magnification Creseograph .
" By Sir J. C. Bose .
Communicated by Prof. S. H. Vines , F.R.S. March 14 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On an Expansion of the Point-Potential .
" By A. W. Conway , F.R.S. II .
" The Lunar and Solar Diurnal Variations of Water Level in a Well at Kew Observatory , Richmond .
Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. March 21 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. Charles S. Myers was admitted into the Society .
The following papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Magnetic Storm of December 16\#151 ; 17 , 1917 , as recorded at Kew and Eskdalemuir Observatories .
" By C. Chree , F.R.S. II .
The Absorption of X-Rays .
" By JC A. Owen .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 25 .
XI April 25 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered by the Hon. Sir Charles Parsons , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , on " Experiments on the Production of Diamond .
" May 2 , 1918 .
* Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows having been read , Sir Henry Jackson and Prof. John Perry were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , to assist the Secretaries in the examination of the balloting lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; Hadcock , Albert George .
Hill , Archibald Vivian .
Irvine , James Colquhoun .
Lewis , Thomas .
Ramanujan , Srinivasa .
Rogers , Arthur William .
Smiles , Samuel .
Smith , Frank Edward .
Bolton , Charles .
Carpenter , Henry Cort Harold .
Chapman , Thomas Algernon .
Conyngham , Gerald Ponsonby Lenox .
Dobell , Cecil Clifford .
Gold , Ernest .
Guppy , Henry Brougham .
May 2 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On Nerve End Cells in the Dental Pulp .
" By J. H. Mummery , D.Sc .
Communicated by Sir Ernest Schafer , F.R.S. II .
" The Nature of Growths in Colloidal Silica Solutions .
" By H. Onslow .
Communicated by Dr. F. G. Hopkins , F.R.S. xii May 9 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. C. Bolton , Dr. T. A. Chapman , Mr. A. V. Hill , Prof. J. C. Irvine , Dr. T. Lewis , Dr. S. Smiles , and Mr. F. E. Smith , were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Contribution to the Theory of Attraction when the Force varies as any Power of the Distance .
" By Major P. A. MacMahon , F.R.S. , and H. B. C. Darling .
II .
" Electromagnetic Integrals .
" Sir George Greenhill , F.R.S. III .
" On Intensity Relations in the Spectrum of Helium .
" By T. R. Merton , D.Sc .
, and J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. IY .
" An Outline of a Theory of Magnetic Storms .
" By S. Chapman , D.Sc .
Communicated by Sir F. Dyson , F.R.S. May 16 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. C. Dobell , Major E. Gold , Colonel A. G. Hadcock , and Prof. H. C. H. Carpenter , were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Note on Certain Coloured Interference Bands and the Colours of Tempered Steel .
" By A. Mallock , F.R.S. II .
" On General Factors in Mental Measurements .
" By J. C. M. Garnett .
Communicated by Prof. A. N. Whitehead , F.R.S. III .
" On the Absorption of X-Rays in Copper and Aluminium .
" By C. M. Williams .
Communicated by Prof. E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. IV .
" On the Electrical Resolution and Broadening of Helium Lines .
" By T. R. Merton , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. A. Fowler , F.R.S. The Society adjourned* over the Whitsun Recess to Thursday , May 30 .
xiii May 30 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. H. B. Guppy was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " A Method of Avoiding Collision at Sea .
" By Prof. J. Joly , F.R.S. II .
" A Statistical Survey of Colour Vision .
" By R. A. Houstoun , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. III .
" The Production of Anthocyanins and Anthocyanidins.\#151 ; Part III .
" By A. E. Everest , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. F. Keeble , F.R.S. xiv June 6 , 19l8 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Paper was read :\#151 ; I. " Brevity , Frequence of Rhythm , and Amount of Reflex Nervous Discharge , as Indicated by Reflex Contraction .
" By N. B. Dreyer and Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. June 13 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Experiments on the Effect of the Vibration of a Stretched Wire forming Part of a Closed Electric Circuit .
" By Admiral Sir Henry Jackson , G.C.B. , F.R.S. II .
" Note on the Effect of Wind Pressure on the Pitch of Organ Pipes .
" By A. Mallock , F.R.S. III .
" The Diamagnetism of Hydrogen and the Value of the Magneton .
" By A. E. Oxley , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. June 20 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair .
The Croonian Lecture\#151 ; " The Physiological Basis of Thirst " \#151 ; was delivered by Major W. B. Cannon , M.R.C. , U.S. Army .
XV June 27 , 1918 .
Sir J. J. THOMSON , O.M. , President , in the Chair . .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Periodic Irrotational Waves of Finite Height .
" By Prof. T. H. Havelock , F.R.S. II .
" The Diffraction of Electric Waves by the Earth .
" By G. N. Watson , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. III .
" Concerning Emotive Phenomena .
Part II.\#151 ; Periodic Variations of Conductance of the Palm of the Human Hand .
" By Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. IV .
" The Mechanism and Control of Fibrillation in the Mammalian Heart .
" By Prof. J. A. MacWilliam , F.R.S. V. " The Development of the Sea Anemones , Adinoloba dianthus and Adamsia palliata .
By J. F. Gemmill , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. E. W. MacBride , F.R.S. VI .
" On the Occurrence of Multipucleate Cells in Vegetative Tissues .
" By R. Beer and Agnes Arber .
Communicated by Prof. J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. VII .
" The Epithelial Sheath of Hertwig in the Teeth of Man , with Notes on the Fcfllicle and Nasmyth 's Membrane .
" By J. H. Mummery , D.Sc .
Communicated by Sir E. Schafer , F.R.S. VIII .
" The Periods of Lateral Vibration of Loaded Shafts.\#151 ; The Rational Derivation of Dunkerley 's Empirical Rule for Determining Whirling Speeds .
" By H. H. Jeffcott .
Communicated by Prof. W. McF .
Orr , F.R.S. IX .
" On the Spectrum of Cadmium in the Inactive Gases .
" By Prof. Norman Collie , F.R.S. , and H. E. Watson , D.Sc .
X. " Further Experiments on Spontaneous Generation of Heat in Recently Hardened Steel .
" By C. F. Brush , Sir Robert Hadfield , F.R.S. , and .
S. A. Main .
XI .
" The Slow Contraction of Hardened Carbon Steels .
" By T. Matsushita .
Communicated by Sir Robert Hadfield , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 7 .

