\gt ; 1885 .
] Thermal Properties of Ethyl Alcohol .
May 7 , 1885 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
I The Presents received were laid on the table and thunks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Baird , A. W. , Major , R.E. Carpenter , Philip Herbert , D.Sc .
Clark , Sir Andrew , Bart. , M.D. 'Common , Andrew Ainslie , F.R.A.S. Creak , Ettrick William , Staff Commander , R.N. Divers , Prof. Edward .
Hicks , Henry , M.D. .
Hicks , Prof. William Mitchison , M.A. Japp , F. R. , Ph. D. Marshall , Prof. Arthur Milnes , M.D. Martin , Prof. Henry Newell , D.Sc .
O'Sullivan , Cornelius .
Perry , Prof. John .
Ringer , Prof. Sydney .
Vines , Sidney Howard , D.Sc .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " A Study of the Thermal Properties of Ethyl Alcohol .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , and Sydney Young , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Gr .
G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 18 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The abnormal vapour-density of many compounds has been ascribed to their dissociating to a greater or less degree while in the gaseous state .
The compound molecule yields , with increase of temperature , a constantly increasing amount of those simpler molecules into which it dissociates ; and as this dissociation is attended with increase of volume , the vapour-density of the mixture of gaseous molecules decreases with rise of temperature .
But this phenomenon is not confined to dissociating compounds alone .
It is known that many , if not all , liquids acquire an abnormal vapour-density in proximity to their point of saturation .
In studying 330 Thermal Properties of Ethyl Alcohol .
[ May 7 the dissociation of a compound , observations regarding its vapour , density , which , would apparently lead to a correct estimate of tht amount of dissociation under any given constant temperature and pressure , are complicated by the phenomena exhibited by liquids a* such ; and it still admits of question whether bodies with such abnormal vapour-densities as are displayed by acetic and homologous acids , should have their abnormality ascribed to dissociation ; or , less exclusively , it may be asked , how much of this abnormality is to be attributed to the one cause and how much to the other ?
To reach a conclusion on this point , it was necessary to study and compare the behaviour of substances belonging to the four types :\#151 ; ( a ) liquids , the vapours of which are not known to dissociate under the conditions of temperature of the experiment ; ( \amp ; ) liquids , the vapours of which probably dissociate into like molecules ; ( c ) bodies which dissociate gradually in the gaseous state into unlike mole-j cules ; { d ) bodies which dissociate completely on passage into the ] gaseous state .
The liquid ethyl alcohol has been chosen as a typical representative of the first class , and its behaviour has been fully studied .
; Numerous measurements have been made which establish relations : \#151 ; ( a ) between volume of liquid alcohol and temperature at various pressures ; ( b ) between volume of liquid alcohol and pressure ( compressibility ) at various temperatures ; ( c ) between volume of unsaturated and of saturated vapour , temperature , and pressure ; and 1 ( d ) the heats of volatilisation have been calculated from these data .
I The limits of temperature extended from 13 ' to 246 ' ; and the limits ) of pressure from 10 mm. to 60,000 mm. The point of chemical importance deduced from this research is that alcohol vapour in contact with liquid acquires its normal density , 23 , at about 50 ' ; and that at lower temperatures no tendency towards a rise in vapour-density could be detected ; as it will be shown in a subsequent memoir that the vapour of acetic acid , in contact with its liquid , acquires increased density on lowering temperature and pressure , the probable conclusion may be drawn that complex molecular groups are produced in larger number , or exhibiting greater complexity with decrease of temperature .
The vapour of alcohol , on the other hand , shows no such tendency .
This research has also shown that the critical point of ethyl alcohol lies at a temperature differing not more than 0'5 ' from 243'6 ' , and at a pressure of nearly 48,900 mm. , while the volume of 1 gram of the critical fluid is approximately 3*5 c.c.

