t Pathological Report on the Histology of Sleeping Sickness and Trypanosomiasis , with a Comparison of the Changes Found in Animals Infected with T. Gambiense and other Trypanosomata .
By Anton Bkeinl , M.U.Dr .
( Prague ) , J. W. Garret International \lt ; \#166 ; Fellow , Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine .
University , Liverpool .
( Communicated by Professor R. Boyce , F.R.S. Received April 8 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Three cases of Sleeping Sickness and one case of Trypanosomiasis dying in Liverpool have been histologically examined .
The central nervous system of the Sleeping Sickness cases showed the changes described by different observers , Mott , Low , the Portuguese Commission and others .
One case exhibited an intra-pial haemorrhage of the spinal cord , extending from the sixth cervical segment to the third thoracic segment , about 7 mm. broad .
In another case there occurred four larger haemorrhages , besides numerous smaller ones , in the grey substance , chiefly affecting the posterior cornua and the thoracic part of the cord .
Microscopically the brain and spinal cord showed small celled infiltration around the vessels , consisting for the most part of lymphocytes , some plasma cells and phagocytes , between which were a varying number of red cells in different stages of disintegration .
The intima of the vessels showed a proliferation of the endothelial cells .
Red and white blood corpuscles were often seen in the vessel walls .
Here and there the blood vessels were filled with white blood corpuscles resembling a thrombosis .
It is most striking that the small celled infiltration is much more marked in the grey substance of the nervous centres , especially in the large grey ganglia , than in the peripheral parts .
Very numerous capillary hiemorrhages of different sizes were present in these situations .
Infiltration around the vessels of the membranes and in the tissues of the pia and arachnoidea was observed .
Around the infiltrated vessels degeneration of the fibres and an excess of glia cells were seen , sometimes exhibiting the picture of red softening .
The ganglia cells showed an irregularly distributed degeneration , central and peripheral chromatolysis and also partial pyknosis .
Signs of inflammation and small celled infiltration in the endo- and periDr .
A. Breinl .
On the Histology oj [ Apr. 8 , neurium of the peripheral nerves were seen .
In two cases of longer duration and with more pronounced symptoms of the disease , more definite changes around the vessels of the brain and spinal cord were seen than in the third case of shorter duration with less marked symptoms .
In this case the perivascular changes in the brain were small and were still less so in the spinal cord .
In all groups of the lymph glands numerous ones were found showing the typical appearance of hsemo-lymph glands with a pronounced hyperplasia of the connective tissue , a widening of the follicles and the formation of a system of sinuses containing red blood cells and large phagocytes in a fine threadwork of connective tissue .
Others showed a transition between the hccmo-lymph glands and normal glands , one part appearing normal , the other presenting a typical sinus formation with numerous red blood cells and phagocytes .
Nearly all the glands contained between the lymph cells a number of blood corpuscles , many in all stages of degeneration .
The spleen was greatly congested and contained a few necrotic areas , scattered through the organ was a little blood pigment giving the iron reaction .
The bone marrow exhibited the typical picture of red marrow with gelatinous degeneration .
The liver and kidneys showed haemorrhages between the parenchyma cells , which latter appeared to be undergoing degeneration .
In all three cases a few large bacilli and cocci were seen which did not stain by Gram 's method , these I consider to be due to post-mortem contamination .
The bacteriological cultivation , anaerobic and aerobic of the cerebro-spinal fluid and the blood of two cases , did not give any growth , and moreover , animals infected with large quantities of cerebro-spinal fluid or blood did not show any other symptoms than those caused through the presence of trypanosomes in the blood .
In only one case , dying with a fair number of trypanosomes in the blood , could I find occasionally a parasite in the congested vessels of the organs .
The one case of .
trypanosomiasis , which died from an intercurrent pneumonia , did not show , any other changes in the central nervous system than the very large peri-vascular spaces , partially filled with transudate , and sometimes containing a few white blood corpuscles .
The ganglion cells showed the changes corresponding to the hyperthermia .
The lymph glands were very haemorrhagic , some showed the typical appearance of luemo-lymph glands .
The brains , spinal cords , and organs of numerous animals infected with Trypanosoma Gambiense , monkeys , rabbits , guinea-pigs , dogs , rats , and mice were examined .
One of the monkeys showed a typical haemorrhagic cicatrix in the left lobus centralis of the brain ; other monkeys and a chimpanzee 1905 .
] Sleeping Sickness and Trypanosomiasis , etc. showed a high congestion of the vessels of the brain and spinal cord , with Haemorrhages , around the vessel walls , containing lymphocytes , a few leucocytes , and phagocytes .
The intima showed large proliferated endothelial cells , the vessels often contained very many leucocytes .
Numerous haemorrhages in the grey substance of the spinal cord were frequently seen .
Some of the dogs , rabbits , and guinea-pigs showed the changes in the spinal cord , and to a less extent in the brain .
The ganglion cells exhibited similar alteration as in the human cases .
In some of the animals no changes around the vessels and very little alteration of the ganglion cells and fibres were noted .
Many of the lymph glands presented the picture of hsemo-lymph glands with a few pigment granules ; sometimes an irregular patchy appearance was seen , the centre consisting of a light stained area with numerous red cells and phagocytes , the periphery of normal lymph tissue with a small number of follicles .
The spleen showed congestion in the more acute cases , with irregular hyperplasia of the malpighian bodies , in the older cases hyperplasia of the connective tissue .
For comparison the brains , cords , and organs of animals infected with T. dimorphum(Gambian horse disease ) were examined .
In a few cases the same haemorrhages as described above and localised in the grey substance of the nervous centres were seen .
The lymph glands showed the peculiar appearance ; as noted above the light spaces were completely filled with blood pigment .
The spleen showed hardly any pigment .
Trypanosomes were found mostly clumped together in the vessels of the different organs of all animals dying with numerous parasites in the peripheral blood .
Conclusions .
( 1 ) In the cases of Sleeping Sickness there is a pronounced congestion of the blood vessels of the central nervous system together with a small celled infiltration around the vessels of the brain and spinal cord , especially in the grey substance .
( 2 ) Chromatolysis and pyknosis of the ganglion cells of brain and spinal .cord .
( 3 ) Inflammation of the leptomeninges of the brain and spinal cord .
( 4 ) Neuritis of the peripheral nerves .
( 5 ) The more chronic the case and the more pronounced the symptoms the greater the changes in the brain and cord .
( 6 ) The majority of the lymph glands exhibit the picture of hmmo-lymph glands .
( 7 ) Small necroses of the spleen and signs of degeneration of the bone marrow .
vol. lxxvii.\#151 ; B. s 236 Messrs. Bateson , Saunders , and Punnett .
[ Dee .
l ( 8 ) The brain of a case of Trypanosomiasis did not show small celled infiltration .
( 9 ) Animals infected with Trypanosoma show sometimes changes in the nervous system , localised in the grey matter , haemorrhages , lymphocytes , and a few leucocytes in the peri-vascular space : haemo-lymph glands in large numbers , and sometimes necrosis of the spleen and degeneration of the bone marrow .
( 10 ) Animals infected with Trypanosoma exhibit similar changes .in the nervous system and organs .
A far greater deposit of pigment in the lymph glands and in older cases in the spleen is present .
Further Experiments on Inheritance in Peas and Stocks .* .
Preliminary Account .
By W. Bateson , F.B.S. , E. B. Saunders , and B. C. Punnett .
( Keceived December 1 , \#151 ; Bead December 7 , 1905 .
) Later results have provided expressions which include many of the peculiar phenomena of inheritance already witnessed in sweet peas and stocks .
In sweet peas we have shown that purple may occur , as a " reversion , " from the cross between two whites , one having long pollen grains , the other round .
Similarly in stocks , white glabrous x cream glabrous gives " reversionary " Fx purple hoary .
( In both cases the parents are whites , i.e. , free from sap-colour , for cream is due to yellow plastids , recessive to colourless plastids .
) The appearance of coloured flowers is due to the simultaneous presence in the zygote of two factors , belonging to distinct allelomorphic pairs , which may be spoken of as C , c , and B , r , the large letter denoting presence , the small letter the absence of the particular factor .
Hoariness of stocks is similarly due to the coexistence of two other factors , and the presence of either of these factors is also allelomorphic to its absence .
These two pairs are spoken of as H , h , and K , k. But , - though H and K may both be present , no hoariness is produced unless C and B , the colour-factors , are also both present .
For the actual development of hoariness four factors are thus required .
The existence of white-flowered hoary plants creates a difficulty ; but white incana is evidently a-coloured

