9 .
" On the Atmospheric Tides and Meteorology of Dukhun , in the East Indies .
" By Lieut.-Colonel W. H. Sykes , F.R.S. The author premises detailed descriptions of the various instruments used in the meteorological observations recorded in this paper , and of the methods employed in obtaining his results ; of which the great features are the barometrical indications of diurnal and noeturnal atmospheric tides , embracing two maxima and two minima in the twenty-four hours .
The following are the chief topics noticed in the paper , and the principal facts established by these inquiries : namely , l. The removal of the doubts entertained by Humboldt , founded on the authority of Horsburgh , of the suspension of the at ?
mospheric tides during the monsoon in Western India ; the existence of the four atmospheric tides already mentioned , and their occurrence within the same limiting hours as in America and Europe ; the greatest mean diurnal oscillations in Dukhun taking place in the coldest months , and the smallest in the damp months ; whilst at Madras , the smallest oscillations are in the hottest months , and in Europe it is supposed that the smallest oscillations are in the coldest months .
2 .
The regular diurnal and nocturnal occurrence of the tides , without a single case of interversion , whatever may be the thermo ?
metric or hydrometric indications , or the state of the weather ; storms and hurricanes only modifying , but not interrupting them .
3 .
The anomalous fact of the mean diurnal oscillations being greater at Poona , at an elevation of 1823 feet , than at the level of the sea , in a lower latitude , at Madras .
4 .
The fact of the diurnal tides , at a higher elevation than Poona , being less , whilst the nocturnal tides are greater than at Poona ; and the seasons apparently not affecting the limiting hours of the tides .
5 .
The maximum mean pressure of the atmosphere being greatest in December and January ; then gradually diminishing until July and August ; and subsequently increasing to the coldest months .
6 .
The very trifling diurnal and annual oscillations compared with those of extra-tropical climates .
7 .
The annual range of the thermometer being less in Dukhun than in Europe , but the diurnal range much greater ; the maximum mean temperature occurring in April and May , and gradually declining until December and January ; and the observed mean temperature of places on the continent of India being much higher than the calculated mean temperature according to Meyer 's formula .
8 .
The mean annual dew-point being higher at half-past nine o'clock than either at sunrise or at four in the afternoon ; the dew-point being highest during the monsoons , and lowest during the cold months , and varying considerably within very short distances ; being , for example , remarkably contrasted in Bombay and Dukhun ; and the fre ?
quent occurrence of dew quite locally and under anomalous circum ?
stances .
9 .
The amount of rain in Dukhun being only 20 per cent. of that falling in Bombay , 90 or 100 miles to the westward .
10 .
The wind being principally from the west and east , and rarely from the opposite quarters .
11 .
The great abundance of electricity under certain circumstances .
12 .
The rare occurrence of fogs .
13 .
The great amount of solar radiation 5 and lastly , the singular opacity of the atmosphere during hot weather , giving rise occasionally to the mirage .
A variety of tables containing the records of meteorological observations , with instruments , accompany the paper .

