171 A Preliminary Note on a Neiv Bacterial Disease of Pisum sativum .
By Dorothy M , Cayley , Research Student , John Innes Horticultural Institution , Merton , Surrey .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received November 19 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) Investigations have been carried out this year at the John Innes Horticultural Institution to elucidate the nature of a disease which affects culinary peas { Pisum sativum ) .
The disease , in this district at all events , is a serious one , killing a large proportion of the crop , but I have no information as to its prevalence in other parts of the country .
I have succeeded in proving that the disease in culinary peas is caused by a large bacillus which exhibits a peculiar feature , , inasmuch as it is transmitted in the interior of the seeds of the plant .
As far as I am aware no analogous instances are known .
Owing to the work of Chamberland ( 1879 ) , Lehmann ( 1889 ) , Laurent ( 1891 ) , and others , it has been definitely proved that not only is the interior of a normal seed sterile , but also beans and peas taken under sterile conditions from healthy pods are free from bacteria .
A very large rod-shaped bacillus has been isolated from the stem of the living pea plant and from the centre of the cotyledons of the pea .
The life history of the organism is complicated by involution-forms and a zooglceal stage .
In the rod stage the bacillus is Gram-positive , non-acid-fast , very motile when young but enveloped in a capsule when at rest .
It varies considerably in size according to the amount of water , food material , and other conditions .
It grows well on acid ( 1 per cent , normal HC1 ) , alkaline ( 1 per cent , normal NaOH ) , and neutral pea agar agar , forming small circular , pale buff , translucent , watery colonies on the surface of the medium , and when submerged the colonies are deeper in colour , opaque and lens-shaped .
The colour of the colonies varies according to the medium used .
Under certain conditions the colonies may have a decided orange tint .
This was especially noticeable in an impure culture into which a spore of Penicillium had been introduced .
The bacterial colonies immediately round the Penicillium were both larger and of a deeper tint than in other parts of the Petri dish where no fungoid growth occurred .
This orange tint has also been observed in badly diseased cotyledons after VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B. 0 172 Miss D. M. Cayley .
Preliminary Note on a [ Nov. 19 , germination , but does not necessarily occur in all cases .
Further elucidation of this point is necessary .
No growth has so far been observed on lactose pea agar agar .
In liquid peptone beef broth the rods grow to a great length and are strung together in chains .
The organism occurs in the phloem , cambium , medullary rays , and occasionally in the pith of the stem , also in the parenchyma of the vascular bundles which run along the mid-rib of the pod , in the tissue of the funicle and cotyledons .
In the very young plant grown in sterile sand the bacillus has been found in the primary ground-tissue of the radicle inside the pericycle , and in the young phloem and cortical tissues of the shoot .
The general symptoms are as follows:\#151 ; In mild cases after germination the shoot can develop normally , but in bad cases it is frequently abortive , brown and dead at the tip , and laterals grow out prematurely to take the place of the main shoot .
Quite early in the development of the plant , when the plumule is from half an inch and upwards in length , light brown longitudinal streaks can be seen on the stem and root , and the first leaves are often brown at the tip .
These streaks develop later into slits .
In very bad cases little or no germination takes place .
After this stage no further definite signs are noticeable till about the flowering period .
Then the development of the disease depends a good deal on external conditions .
If the weather is warm and dry , and the plants are growing vigorously , the disease develops rapidly , and in a few days the plants become unhealthy and change colour .
The stem turns slightly brown , and looks somewhat water-soaked .
Brown longitudinal streaks appear at the base of the petioles on either side of the rib of the stem , which is continuous with the mid-rib of the leaf .
The streaks split open and dry out .
The collar may be badly disorganised .
The leaves become spotted , streaked and yellowish in colour , and if the disease is progressing rapidly the younger portions of the plant show discoloration , and fail to develop properly .
Except in bad cases the plants grow to full height , and can flower and set a certain amount of seed , but on examination the cotyledons of the seeds of a diseased plant show brown discoloration , which may be limited to a mere spot in the centre of each cotyledon , or , on the other hand , nearly the whole of the cotyledon may be involved .
In the latter case there is often a cavity in the centre of the cotyledon .
Sections of the diseased cotyledon show large numbers of bacilli in various stages of development in the cells and intercellular spaces .
The bacillus works its way into the intercellular spaces and then breaks 1912.1 New Bacterial Disease of Pisum sativum .
into the cells .
There the nucleus is often attacked , the cytoplasm destroyed , and the cells collapse , thus forming rents in the tissues .
There is considerable evidence to show that the bacillus passes up the plant through the tissues above mentioned , through the funicle , and probably the micropyle into the young developing seed .
If one pea is diseased all the other peas in the same pod are diseased to an equal extent .
The disease is chiefly spread by the seed , but fresh infection may take place through the soil .
Inoculation experiments were carried out in the open , but little stress can be laid on the results , as the disease was so prevalent throughout the experimental plot .
Pea plants grown in heated soil in boxes , and inoculated just above the ground , when the plants were about 1 foot in height , showed no disease , whereas , in the open , seven out of ten inoculations on the stem just below the youngest unfolding leaf were successful .
Further inoculation experiments are necessary , but the above results tend to show that the bacillus can only penetrate very young tissue .
This is supported by the fact that large numbers of the bacilli have been found in the inner tissues of the radicle when only about half an inch long .
Further investigations are in progress .
In many respects the symptoms resemble those of the formidable disease of sweet pea ( .
Lathyrusodoratus ) known as " streak .
" This disease has been held to be due to Thielavia basicola , but , in view of these observations , that conclusion seems very doubtful , and I may add that , in the stem of diseased sweet peas , I have already found bacteria like those here described .

