]\gt ; On the of -Rays ) ?
fith their of exciting Velocity ; By L. VEGARD , " " Universitets-stipendiat\ldquo ; of Christiania niversity .
( Communicated by Prof. W. H. , F.R.S. Received Decenlbcr ( 9 , 1909 , \mdash ; Read January 13 , 1910 .
) lntrod , 1 .
The of polarisation of ontgen rays*ested by the ether pulse theory , and this theory a support .
But , on the other hand , the meets with many difficulties when we are to account for a number of other properties of these rays which recent investigation has to light .
Sir J. J. Thomson has tried to ) the ether pulse theol)sistcnt observations by introducing no ) erties for ) -medium , and assnmes the ethel has structure , that the .
from the pulse ce.ntre is transmitted along " " lines of ' with undiminished intensity .
Prof. W. H. has assulned , in the so-called ' nentral theory that the rays are of a nature .
For a fuller discussion of in favonr of this view I efer to ) ) shall here confine myself to one of the chief difficulties on the there ulse theory is to explain the propertief } of the latter , on account of the relation existing } their hardness of the bull ) nnst , be ) from the .
What may be said to offer some difficulty to the neutral ] ' is the existexlce of ) tion , and )(( ' has cnlled to the fact that the ) which are ) roduce asymmetric ) henonenaot .
the 1-ind termed ) , lbere still some difficulty in explaining that the ) ) is itself felt already in the to ) of the doublet sbould ]1l01e likely to occur than others .
We know th ) ' start from the allti-cathode of whal , complex the possibility itself the might of two of rays , one kind tion S ) * C. G. Barkla , ' Phil. ) , vol. 204 , pp. ) ; .
G. Parkla , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' ( A ) , , p. 247 , 1906 .
W. H. , 'Phil .
' vol. 14 , p. 42 1907 ; W. H. lIadsen , ' Mag vol. 15 , p. 603 , 1908 , and vol. 16 , .
D. Innes , ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , I ) .
442 , 1907 .
VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 of Prof. Brag , to undertake the following investigation on polarisation of primary -rays .
At the same time the experiments will have interest for the !
question as to the existence of polarisation in the primary beam , because existed , while Herweg , the same method , got a posiGive result .
yreatest caken tinate tffect oariation intensity.across trimary cident bxcentricmethod , arisation orimary bdifferent observers dgree ooint .
Measurements msome 1neasurements 1lave b incidence on the secondary radiator .
between the polarisation and the of incidence of the cathode rays on the anti-cathode .
AppclrattlS . .
The arrangement for analysing the primary beam for polarisation , which forms the most important part of tloe apparatus , is shown in and 2 , giving the parts A and on a larger scale .
( figs. 1 and 3 ) is a ) wooden box covered with lead and introduced in order to increase the distance between the anti-cathode and the secondary radiator .
The part ( .
1 the secondary radiator and the ionisation hambers is made after the design of Prof. Brag .
A and two square boxes made of plates ( about 2 mm. thick ) , one placed outside the other .
The horizontal section of the two boxes forms squares , having the same centre and their sides parallel see .
The secondary radiator .
1 had the form of a cylinder with a conical top , and consisted of paraffin wax .
This substance was cbosen , as it is found to be very effective in polarisation .
S The radiator was fixed to the inn er box in the way indicated in fig. 1 , with its axis vertical and coinciding with that of the two boxes A and D. The secondary radiation was cut ofl by the inner box , except at four circular apertures symmetrically arranged on the four side walls of the box .
The intensities of the four beams passing through these openings were * C. G. Barkla , .
cit. ; E. Bassler , ' Ann. ' vol. 28 , p. 808 , 1909 .
H. Haga , ' Ann. .
Phys vol. 28 , p. 439 .
J. Herweg , ' Ann. ' vol. 29 , p. 398 , 1909 .
S E. Bassler , 1909 .
] On the -Rays , etc. 381 measured by the ionisation in four equal and symmetrically arranged ionisation chambers , fig. 2 , each of two circular parallel plates and nt .
1 .
The outer plate , made of aluminium ( 1.5 mm. thick ) , was supported by a brass rod fixed in a brass tube by a plug of sulphur .
This brass tube made to fit exactly inside another brass tube fixed to the outer box .
These plates were connected to .
wires , all of which went the same layer of gold leaf , on the other with one layer of aluminium foil .
The windows were made of thin sheets of aluminium covered on one qide with three layers of gold leaf .
The inner box was screwed ou to the bottom plate , outer one ( A ) could be taken off .
To be sure that ( A ) always kept the same position , it rested on three short conical feet that fitted into corresponding in the bottom plate .
Underneath the bottom plate of the box was fixed a short brass cylinder exactly fitting into another short brass cylinder fixed on the top of the box B. This enabled the whole top box with the secondary radiator and the four ionisation chambers to be turned round a vertical axis .
1909 .
the of -Rays , etc. coinciding with that of the prinlary beam .
Moreover , the paraffin cone could be separately turned round the same axis , and this could be done , without removing the outer box ( A ) , by means of brass rod put into the square hole the aperture in the sulphur plug .
The primary rays that struck the radiator had to pass through a series of circular apertures ( fig. 1 ) their centres on the axis of the radiator .
The diameter of the was cm .
The distance from the top of the cone to the anti-cathode was about 40 cm .
In this the solid angle ( w ) of the ray bundle was very small , and the beam on .
hit the central part of the cone .
As the radiator was long enough to bsorb the primary beam , all secondary liation c from the paraffin .
A general plan for the ements is shown in bulb fixed to a wooden frame and put inside a big box coycred with leful .
The cathode ray beam had always a horizontal direction .
The igbt s ) on the anti-cathode that formed the main source of primary -rays brought to coincide with the axis of the radiator in the small mirror on the top of the middle plate of the box was pul in such a position that the anti-cathode could be seen through the and , and the spot on it into central position .
is an electroscope of the Wilson type used for measuring the secondary radiation .
The sensitiveness of this instrument was not at rent parts of the scale .
This difficulty was overcome by the ) icroscope and the electroscope in an unchanged position .
In this way the scnsitiveness at the various points of the scale kept nearly constant .
In fact 384 Mr. L. Vegard .
sensibility curve was generally the same during a whole day , and underwent only small changes during the whole course of my experiments .
( fig. 3 ) is a standardising chamber connected to an electroscope The primary beam went through a narrow aperture in the lead box , then through a short lead tube , and entered the chamber through a thin paper wall coated with aluminium foil .
and are keys for earthing the gold leaves .
roundi tonnection wires wsame ealThe loxes , oxes ( andthebra ss Everytubes care was taken to make the apparatus accurate and symmetrical .
Iode of Procedure .
of easure tolarisation anlethod wdopted .
Thethe tchambers ( windowsthetwo others to volts .
During the determination of polarisation the bulb was kept unaltered , while the box A containing the chambers was turned .
For each determination of the polarisation the following observations were taken:\mdash ; Position I.\mdash ; Line combining the centres of the positive chambers perpendicular to the cathode rays .
( 1 ) The two positive chambers were connected to the electroscope , and the ionisation measured .
( 2 ) All four chambers were connected and the leak measured .
Position II.\mdash ; Box A turned All four chambers connected and the leak measured .
( 4 ) The two negative chambers were connected and the leak measured .
The observations wers made as follows:\mdash ; coil was made to run until a suitable deflection was obtained in the electroscope .
When the leak in the two opposite chambers was measured , the rate of motion of the gold leaves in and was of the same order .
The rate in varied in different experiments , but was of the order of 20 to 30 divisions per minute , the rate in enerally somewhatlarger .
When all four chambers were connected , however , the motion of the leaf in was very slow compared with that of , and even letting the leaf in traverse the whole scale , the corresponding deflection in was too small for an accurate determination .
In this case several deflections in were added to make up a suitable deflection ( 5 to 10 divisions ) in .
In general two or three such portions were sufficient , and thus in order to get one } 1909 .
] the isation of -Rays , etc. 385 9 .
determination of the polarisation the coil had to be lun altogether about five minutes .
The scale value determined in the usual way by the leaf to a series of known potentials , and from the scale value for different parts of the scale could be found .
For the scale value was very nearly constant all over the scale , for it varied considerably ; but as already mentioned , the sensibility curve kept very nearly , and it was found sufficient to determine it twice a day before and after the observations .
The sensitiveness of about 1 .
per volt .
The maximum sensitiyeness of was about 15 ) volt .
natural leak was exalnined repeatedly , but was too small to have an appreciable effect on the observations .
To determine the efficiency of the polarised rays in elocity cathode rays , the windows lrned and the same serics of tions repeated with the windows in the new position .
On the of th 4 .
The polarisation will be defined by the ; ( 1 ) and are intensities of secondary radiation in a plane to the axis of the primary X-ray bundle ; is measured in direction perpendicular to parallel to the direction of the thode ray ) We shall first treat the cnse , that the tcnsity of the secondary X-radiation traversing the same chalnbel ' is supposed to be proportional to the ionisation prodnced in this chamber , the relative position between the source and the chanlber same .
get the following equations:\mdash ; .
ition II .
is the leak ) served when is connected to two positive bers .
, , , , , , , , , ative , , , , , , , , all four cha1llbers .
Mr. L. Vegard .
The leaks are measured by the potential to which is charged when has received a charge corresponding to 1 volt .
is the capacity of the system when the electroscope is connected to two opposite chambers , the capacity when is connected to all four chambers .
and are constants characteristic for the two positive and the two negative nbers respectively .
Forming the expression in equation ( 1 ) by means of ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , AVe see that the quantities and depending on the chambers disappear .
equations ( and contains , besides the four quantities observed , a factor , which is a constant for thoe instrument .
As the capacity of the electroscope with connection wires is small compared with that of the chamber , we get , where is found to be , and this gives This expression ( 4 ) for the polarisation will be approximately a correct one in the case that the aluminium sides of the windows are next to the chamber , and the adiation only excites a small amount of cathode rays inside the chambers .
In general , when we assume corpuscular radiation to partake in the ionisation the equations will have to be modified .
We shall consider the case that the primary beam is made up of two parts , one portion non-polarised and one partly polarised , and we sJlall suppose the two parts to have a different power of exciting high velocity cathode rays .
Instead of equations ( 1 ) , , and we get .
( 5 ) .
( 6 ) The equations and relnain the same .
1909 .
] On the Folarisation of , etc. is a measure for the intensity of cathode radiation produced inside the chamber per umit intensity of the unpolarised part of the -ray beam .
is the corresponding quantity for the polarised part .
Treating these equations ( 6 ) , , and ) in the same way as before , ' ( S ) is determined in the same way as before .
Comparing and ( 8 ) , we see that no longer ives the true value for the polarisation except in case that 5 .
effect of consists in the variation of constants appearing in the two equations ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) .
In the expressions to the left in these equations it is only and that vary ; for as the secondary beam has the same lnattel to traverse in both positions of the windows the quantities , and remain the same .
the quantities and are not affected they onll depend on the volume and shape of the chambers .
Let and be the constants when aluminium is next to the chamber , , , , gold Then we get from ( 7 ) , where ( 9 ) From ( 9 ) we see that the necessary and sufficient condition for to be equal to zero is ( 10 ) ( 10 ) th , , to 1 th beam is to prodncc cpltho If equation ( 8 ) is employed for the two positions of the .
( 11 ) The equation the ncntal ondition to be 'tl , af the ) tloe all of excitin , elocit , When the polarised part of the beam is very small compared with the mpolarised and is not very different from Pa ' , as will be actual case , we get very approximately from ( 11 ) , , where .
( 12 ) Mr. L. Vegard .
and being very small , we see that and give respectively a measure for the efficiency of the unpolarised and the polarised part of the radiation in producing high velocity cathode rays , and their values can be found in a very simple way from ( 9 ) and ( 12 ) .
Possible 6 .
( 1 ) Differences in the ionisation due to differences in the four chambers are compensated for by turning the chambers through araffin cested bhambers warisation wound them symmetry iecondary radiation differences ieasured polarisation wroperties same in the new posltlon of the bulb .
kept in their posltlon , but the rotation of cone caused in fact no change in the ionisation .
( 4 ) Another error be caused by excentric incidence of the primary beam on the paraffin cone .
This was corrected for by having four chambers , so the sinlultaneous ionisation in two opposite chambers gives the mean intensity in the two opposite directions .
The most serious difficulty in applying corrections arises from the possibility that the primary beam may vary in intensity across the beam .
Taking the effect over a considerable time , we must be able to assume that the intensity across the beam varies in a continuous way .
In a plane perpendicular to the ray bundle the intensity can be expressed by , where and are rectangular co-ordinates in the plane , and if the centre of the cross-section is taken as origin , , etc. If we exclude the singular case that and both vanish , the variation will act in a similar way as an excentric incidence , and is compensated for in the same way by measuring the mean intensity in opposite directions from the secondary radiator .
The case that and both vanish and the quantities , and have finite values need to be considered , because a ray bundle with intensity in this singular way would produce a distribution of secondary radiation of the same kind as in the case of polarisation .
Such a singular point , however , is not likely to occur .
It could only exist 1909 .
On the , etc. a certain cone through the source or a finite number of ray directions , but , as shown by Barkla and Bassler , the primary rays are found to be polarised in directions of the primary adiation 1 within wide limits .
Another important argument for not supposing such a ular point to occur is , that the light substances are replaced by heavy metals as secondary radiators polarisation is found .
The variation of the polarisation with the of incidence of the cathode also shows the impossibility of explaining polarisation from variationl in intensity across the primary beam .
( 6 ) Irregularities in the running of the bulb vere collpensated for by the .
chamber .
It was found that ratio veen the ionisation in and kept constant during long intervals of time , but only as long as the position of the bulb was kept ] , and , as we have seen , the polarisation could be measured without the bulb .
To colrect for radual changes in the state of the bulb , a greater lulnber of ements were taken in series in such a way that the were alternately turned , and by these means the for the two positions of the dows could be reduced to the same of the bulb .
lts .
7 .
Tables I and II vive the esults of rements the window and respectively .
The inside each horizontal column are the meall of a considerable nulnber of observations ]-en quickly in succession in the way described .
We see that in cases considerably greater than In view of equation ( 10 ) this shows that of ( onsi We further see that is what 1 and our ) ments is always erreater than ; in othelvords , of ' th , has on the ( of ( 'afho th Table I. increasing the thickness of gold from one to three layers of foil only very slightly increases the relative nount of ionisation due to corpuscular radiation .
somewhat , values for and in the middle column in Table II is most due to the fact that they were the first observations taken with the new window , and the fresh gold surface gives a somewhat larger cathode radiation .
Table III shows the effect of screening the primary beam before it strikes the secondary radiator .
The screen consisted of a number of luminium plates that cut off the intensity to about the half of its value .
Table III .
The effect is , shortly , the :\mdash ; ( 1 ) The polarisation is increased by the screen .
( 2 ) The power of the polarised part of the beam to produce cathode ppears to be nearly unchanged after passing through the screen , while ( 3 ) The efficiency of the unpolarised part in producing cathode rays is increased , so and become very nearly equal .
It seems from this that the polarised part a nor penetrating and homo1909 .
] the isation of -Rays , etc. geneous of radiation than the i$ mor properties the Relation and of ' of the 8 .
The ] used for this ation differed from an ordinary bulb in that the anti-cathode was fixed to a short gass tube , which was ground to fit into another one in such a way as to enable the anti-cathode to be turned round an axis nearly horizontal and perpendicular to the cathode rays .
The bulb was put into the lead box , and in a similar position as for the previous experiments .
It was evacuated by a Gaede pump , and conn ected to it through a glass tube , which could be closed by tap .
To the bulb into a steady state , it had to be run with the coil and repumped a great many times and for various positions of the anti-cathode .
The last precaution was necessary , because the of the anti-cathode caused new parts of it to be struck by the cathode rays .
The bulb was exactly in the same position during the whole series measurements .
The results are shown in Table .
The lltlmbers in the vertical columns correspond to series of determinations taken in rapid succession , and in the order in which they put in the table .
Table .
the angle between the cathode rays and the llormal the anti-cathode .
We that the values of the polarisation in column , which should be comparable , show very small difference hich , however , occur in a regular way , especially so tlrat the po]arisation a sl .
decrease when is diminished .
This experiment shows definitely that the cannot be due to any ular distribution of intensity across the plimary ) .
The of such a distribution must either be in an uneven thickness of the of the bulb or in the distribution of intensity in the source .
That first is not the case is shown by the fact that further screening increased the licula to the cathode rays ; but for oblique incidence the source seen found in the polarisation cannot be due to variation in intensity distribution , ariations iormation orays ccause tffect fosite tected fariati sarisation iarge virection athein tirection iidest pathode Thus tffecto a the source .
change seems to be the following four : ( 1 ) By turning the anti-cathode the spot of incidence may shift about antl this may change the amount of gas given out relative to that absorbed and thus cause an irregularity in the variation of the state of the bulb .
As already stated , this effect was reduced by running the bulb for various a change caused in this way to be quite irregular and irreversible .
positions of the anti-cathode before the messurements were taken .
Further , But we see from the table that the variation occurs in a regular way and does not depend on the order of operation , so the variation of the polarisation must be in the variation of some other condition .
( 2 ) By oblique incidence the same amount of cathode rays strike a larger surface than when is small , and it might be possible that the contraction of the spot of incidence might diminish the polarisation .
( 3 ) The effect of a contraction of the spot of incidence be a one , due to changes in temperature in the spot , and if this was the cause of the change in the observation would show that the polarisation was diminished by increase of temperature .
( 4 ) The relative amount of -radiation from the surface layer will increase with the angle of incidence , and it is quite possible that the more X-radiation there formed in the surface layer the greater will be the polarisation .
To decide how far the three last conditions may account for the observed variation would require further knowledge arding the formation and properties of -radiation .
The way in which the polarisation has been expressed in this paper is practically the same as that used by Bassler .
Barkla , however , expresses his I 1909 .
On the of -Rays , etc. results differently , in fact he has used two different ways* of the polarisation : one makes the numbers twice , the other makes them four times as large as if calculated after the method here adopted .
Thus the highest value found by Barkla for polarisation of the primary beam calculated in our ; way is about .
The hest number appearing in the tables is , but even still higher alues have been obtained .
The second , in a very soft state and with an anti-cathode of Ni , a arisation of in the prinlary beam .
In thib connection it is of interest to notice that the polarisation in the secondary beam as found by Barkla calculaced in the here used is about 1 .
The existence of polarisation in the primary radiation is by a method which efficiently coml ) ensateH for possible errors .
2 .
The part which is polarised possesses at the sa1ne time a power of exciting high velocity cathode rays , which shows that the polarised and unpolarised part in this espcct are essentially of the same type .
3 .
The efficiency of high velocity cathode rays is even somewhat greater for the polarised than for the unpolarised part of the beanl , and the difference between and increases with the softness of the bulb .
4 .
Screening the bealu beforc .
the radiator htly i the polarisation .
It had observable effect on the efficiency of the polarised part to produce cathode rays , hile of the ised , so became nearly equal ) 5 .
The angle of incidence of rays , when other conditions the same , had a very small ) still Hect on polarisation , the latter being reater for reater angle .
experiment conclnsively that the polarisation cannot be accounted for by any distribution of intensity across the primary In conclusion , 1 wish othan rofessor W. H. for to the subject of the research , which was carried out in the of and for the kind interest he has taken in its ' Phil. , , compare 1 ) .
p. 479 .

