1891 .
] Suspensory Ligament of the Crystalline Lens , fyc .
141 membrane with a thin centre and thick periphery .
Under the microscope it is structureless .
On removal it , of course , stains deeply , and thus can be readily examined .
When one attempts to raise it outwards towards the hyaloid membrane and suspensory ligament , one may succeed as far as the origin of the suspensory ligament , but behind this point it is so firmly adherent to the vitreous substance that it cannot be raised .
The notion of a membrane in front of the vitreous is supported by the behaviour of the vitreous body with its investing membranes intact in water ; it will remain many days with its form quite unchanged , and during all this time it may be handled without injuring it .
But if the membranes be cut so as to expose the vitreous substance to the action of the water , this substance protrudes and has a cloud-like outline very different from the sharp , definite outline or surface at the uninjured anterior face of the vitreous body where still covered by membrane .
Now there is never any of this cloud-like indefinite outline or surface at the uninjured anterior face of the vitreous body .
I infer , therefore , that it is not vitreous substance that here comes into contact with the water , but that it is a membrane that is not notably acted on by water .
After all these facts and considerations , I cannot doubt that there is in the perfectly fresh unaltered eye a membranous structure behind the posterior layer of the lens capsule , and that this structure has all the properties of a distinct membrane resembling the hyaloid , but differing in many respects from vitreous substance .
I need say nothing here as to the immense importance in many questions of ophthalmological practice of a definite knowledge of the existence or non-existence of a membrane limiting the vitreous body anteriorly .
J [ Aote added January 15 , 1891.-\#151 ; Since the above was sent in , I have had an opportunity of examining a series of sections of the entire human eyeball , made by Dr. Sheridan Delepine , and in all of these sections the membrane is distinctly seen in situ .
] V. On the Connexion between the Suspensory Ligament of the Crystalline Lens and the Lens Capsule .
" By T. P. Anderson Stuart , M.D. , Professor of Physiology in the University of Sydney , N.S.W. Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1891 .
I have not been able to get a too precise statement as to the nature . ?
M _ls c'nnexion , but Quain ( 9th ed. ) says the suspensory ligament *f . .
^ 7 attached ' to the capsule ; in another place Quain says it joins it .
Speaking of " suspensory fibres of the lens , " Quain says 142 Suspensory Ligament of the [ Feb. that some of these " pass into continuity " with the posterior capsule " Thus attachment , " " joining , " and " passing into continuity " 3B the expressions used to indicate the connexion .
It is true that 3 last is employed with regard to the suspensory fibres , but since these as described , are , like the suspensory ligament , derived from the hyaloid membrane and pass like it to the lens capsule , I think we may assume that the author in " Quain " regards them\#151 ; fibres and ligament as of like nature and mode of union with the lens capsule .
Schwalbe ( 'Anatomie der Sinnesorgane ' ) says the capsule is firmlv united ( verwachsen ) with the zonula .
Later , he speaks of the outer or zonular layer of the lens capsule being joined ( in to the zonula ; then again of its firm connexion ( fester ) with he zonula when he uses this intimate union as an argument in favour of the zonular layer of the capsule being of connective tissue origin In describing the zonula he says that its parts fuse ( ver-schmelzen)with the capsule without any perceptible line of demarcation and probably form the above-mentioned zonular layer .
Finally the mode of fusion is as follows : The coarser bundles break up into a network of finer fibrils , which spread out on the surface of the capsule an , ecommg pointed , lose themselves ) in the substance of the capsule .
From the various statements , I think it is clear that the general notion is that there is a direct continuity of substance between the suspensory ligament and the capsule .
Now the observation which I am about to describe seems rather to indicate that the suspensory ligament is only cemented to the capsule .
Upon opening some ox eyes that were in an advanced state of ecomposition , I found that the lens was quite free in the interior of e eyeball ; and , on examining it , I found that it was still enclosed in its capsule .
This freeing of the lens I find to be the rule in such cases .
On opening the capsnle , the lens substance escaped , and on washing n staining the capsule with piorocarmine and other dyes , and on l\#153 ; " ? .
m \#153 ; TS WajS ' 1 haTe failed to find " 7 roughness of w'lrf'r'fference of thickness , or , in short , any indication of a rup-ture of tissue .
The zonula seems to come away intact : is not broken " n ' T7 ' In fMt ' the decomposition seems to weaken the by whioh the zonnia adb- of Tthe " bseryatj'n SeeT * ' weaW the argument for an outer layer sonl l- tf bemg 'f COn , leofci\#153 ; tissue origin , and it may thmw l"foSn ca'snT ; i0fnS0lttti0n " d atr'PV \#171 ; \gt ; e suspense^ Kg* meant , on cases of detachment of the ligament from its insertions , and WW oft^n " ,6 IenS ' In anyoase ifc ^ a very direct 0n the 8t , U " " settled question of the development of the lens

