On the Respiration of Birds .
By William Allen and William Hasledine Pepys , Esqrs .
Fellows of the Royal Society .
Read April 30 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 279 .
] The inquiries of the authors on human respiration , and on that of the guinea pig , and of which they communicated the details to the Royal Society in former papers , are here extended to the respiration of birds .
Pigeons were the subjects of these experiments , and the same apparatus was employed as the one used for the guinea pig , described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1809 .
The object of the first experiment was to ascertain the changes which take place in atmospheric air when breathed by a bird in the most-natural manner .
For this purpose a pigeon was placed in a glass vessel containing 62 cubic inches of air , and commuuicating with two gasometers , one of which supplied from time to time fresh quantities of air , and the other received portions which become vitiated by respiration .
The experiment lasted 69 minutes , and was productive of no injury to the bird excepting a slight appearance of uneasi_ nless whenever the supply of air was not sufficiently rapid .
OIn examining the air at the end of the experiment , no alteration had taken place either in the total volume of air , or in the proportion of azote which it contained ; the only perceptible change being the substitution of a certain quantity of carbonic acid for an equal volume of oxy(gen gas , amounting to about half a cubic inch per minute , and being equivalent to the addition of 96 grains of carbon in 24 hours .
Two experiments were made on the respiration of oxygen gas , obtained from chlorate of potash , and containing in the one case two , and in the other only one per cent. of azote .
Under these circumstances it was found that the volume of the gas was unaltered , and that a similar quantity of oxygen gas had been abstracted , but that a much smaller quantity of carbonic acid had been formed than in the last experiment , the remaining portion being made up by azotic gas which had been given out from the lungs of the bird , and the volume of which was just equal to that of the oxygen absorbed .
The bird was somewhat distressed during the experiment , but recovered immediately and perfectly on being released from its confinement .
In the fourth experiment , in which a pigeon was made to respire a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen , with a small proportion of azote , ( the oxygen being in the same proportion as in common air , ) it was found that there was no loss of oxygen ; but that a quantity of hydrogen disappeared , and was replaced by an equal volume of azote .
The authors observe that birds have a quicker circulation of blood than other animals ; and also that they are more sensible to the stimulating effects of oxygen .

