VI .
" On the Absorption and Dialytic Separation of Gases by Colloid Septa .
" By T-OMAS GRAHAM , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received June 20 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) It appears that a thin film of caoutchouc , such as is furnished by varnished silk or the transparent little balloons of india-rubber , has no porosity , and is really impervious to air as gas .
But the same film is capable of liquefying the individual gases of which air is composed , while oxygen and nitrogen , in the liquid form , are capable of penetrating the substance of the membrane ( as ether or naphtha do ) , and may again evaporate into a vacuum and appear as gases .
This penetrating power of air becomes more interesting from the fact that the gases are unequally absorbed and condensed by rubber , oxygen 2 ?
times more abundantly than nitrogen , and that they penetrate the rubber in the same proportion .
IHence the rubberfilm may be used as a dialytic sieve for atmospheric air , and allows very constantly 41'6 per cent. of oxygen to pass through , instead of the 21 per cent. usually present in air .
The septum keeps back , in fact , one-half of the nitrogen , and allows the other half to pass through with all the oxygen .
This dialysed air rekindles wood burning without flame , and is , in fact , exactly intermediate between air and pure oxygen gas in relation to combustion .
One side of the rubber-film must be freely exposed to the atmosphere , and the other side be under the influence of a vacuum at the same time .
The vacuum may be established within a bag of varnished silk , or in a little balloon , the sides being prevented from collapsing , by interposing a thickness of felted carpeting between the sides of the varnished cloth , and by filling the balloon with sifted sawdust .
For commanding a vacuum in such experiments , the air-exhauster of Dr. I-ermann Sprengel* is admirably adapted .
It possesses the advantage that the gas drawn from the vacuum can also be delivered by the instrument into a gas-receiver placed over water or mercury .
The " fall-tube " has merely to be bent at the lower end .
The surprising penetration of platinum and iron tubes by hydrogen gas , discovered by MM .
H. Sainte-Claire Deville and Troost , appears to be connected with a power resident in the same and certain other metals , to liquefy and absorb hydrogen , possibly in its character as a metallic vapour .
Platinum , in the form of wire or plate , at a low red heat may take up and hold 3'8 volumes of hydrogen , measured cold ; but it is by palladium that the property in question appears to be possessed in the highest degree .
Palladium foil from the hammered metal , condensed so much as 643 times its volume of hydrogen , at a temperature under 100 ?
C. The same metal had not the slightest absorbent power for either oxygen or nitrogen .
The capacity of fused palladium ( as also of fused platinum ) is considerably reduced ; but foil of fused palladium , for which I am indebted to Mr. G. Matthey , still absorbed 68 volumes of gas .
A certain degree of porosity may be admitted to exist in these metals , and to the greatest extent in their hammered condition .
It is believed that such metallic pores , and indeed all fine pores , are more accessible to liquids than to gases , and in particular to liquid hydrogen .
Hence a peculiar dialytic action may reside in certain metallic septa , like a plate of platinum , enabling them to separate hydrogen from other gases .
In the form of sponge , platinum absorbed 1*48 times its volume of hydrogen and palladium 90 volumes .
The former of these metals , in the peculiar condition of platinum-black , is already known to take up several hundred volumes of the same gas .
The assumed liquefaction of hydrogen in such circumstances appears to be the primary condition of its oxidation at a low temperature .
A repellent property possessed by gaseous molecules appears to resist chemical combination , as well as to establish a limit to their power to enter the minuter pores of solid bodies .
Carbonic oxide is taken up more largely than hydrogen by soft iron .
Such an occlusion of carbonic oxide by iron , at a low red heat , appears to be the first and a necessary step in the process of acieration .
The gas appears to abandon half its carbon to the iron , when the temperature is afterwards raised to a considerably higher degree .
Silver has a similar relation to oxygen , of which metal the sponge , fritted but not fused , was found to hold in one case so much as 7'49 volumes of oxygen .
A plate or wire of the fused metal retains the same property , but much reduced in intensity , as with plates of fused platinum and palladium in their relation to hydrogen .

