8 .
" On extraordinary Oscillations of the Sea ; with an account of some Observations in Mount 's Bay .
" By Richard Edmonds , Jun. Communicated by Sir Charles Lemon , Bart. , F.R.S. In this communication the author notices many remarkable oscillations of the sea which had been observed nearly a century ago in Mount 's Bay and Plymouth Sound , and also elsewhere .
He then particularly describes some which have occurred more recently at the former places .
Of these the following are the principal : On the morning of the 31st of May , 1811 , the sea was observed to rise and fall rapidly from 4 to 8 feet .
On the 5th of July , 1843 , the author witnessed oscillations of the sea in Mount 's Bay .
In the evening of the 30th of October , 1843 , oscillations of the sea were observed in Mount 's Bay and at Plymouth .
On the morning of the 5th of July , 1846 , immediately after a terrific thunder-storm , oscillations of the sea were observed at Marazion .
The author remarks that the great storm which passed over England on this day raged in the Atlantic during the night of the 4th of July .
On the morning of the 1st of August , 1846 , the sea at Penzance pier was observed suddenly to rise between 1 and 2 feet , and as suddenly to rush back .
It is remarked that London and its vicinity were visited on this day by a most destructive hailand thunderstorm .
On the 23rd of May , 1847 , there were extraordinary oscillations of the sea , and a slight motion of the ground was felt on the cliff between Newlyn and Mousehole .
After referring to the theories which have been advanced in explanation of these phenomena , the author observes , in conclusion , that , from what he has stated on the subject , and from the fact of earthquakes , as well as extraordinary oscillations of the sea , having so frequently occurred during thunder-storms , he sees no difficulty in the supposition , that all the oscillations to which he has referred may have resulted from submarine shocks of the earth , occasioned by electrical discharges between the earth and the atmosphere , or between oppositely electrified portions of the earth .

