1887 .
] Meiolania platyceps .
Dynamical Principles .
III .
" On Parts of the Skeleton of Meiolania platyceps ( Ow .
) .
" By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 29 , 1887 .
( Abstract ) .
The subjects of the present paper are additional fossil remains of Meiolania platyceps from Lord Howe 's Island , transmitted to the British Museum since the author 's previous paper on the subject .
Additional cranial characters are defined and illustrated by drawings of more or less perfect specimens of the skull , of vertebrae of the neck , trunk , and tail , of limb-bones , and portions of the dermal skeleton .
The author sums up the affinities , deducible from the above parts of the skeleton , to the orders Chelonia and , with grounds for the conclusion that the genera Megalania and Meiolania are more nearly akin to the Saurian division of the class Beptilia , in which he proposes to refer those extinct genera to a sub-order called Ceratosauria .
IV .
" Some Applications of Dynamical Principles to Physical Phenomena .
Part II .
" By J. J. Thomson , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 31 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) This is a continuation of a paper with the same title published in the ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 , Part II .
In the first paper dynamical principles were applied to the subjects of electricity and magnetism , elasticity and heat , to establish relations between phenomena in these branches of physics .
In this paper corresponding principles are applied to chemical and quasi-chemical processes such as evaporation , liquefaction , dissociation , chemical combination , and the like .
Many of the results obtained in this paper have been or can be obtained by means of the Second Law of Thermodynamics , but one of the objects of the paper is to show that there are other ways of attacking such questions , and that in many cases such problems can be solved as readily by the direct use of dynamical principles as by the Second Law of Thermodynamics .
A great deal has been written on the connexion between the Second Law of Thermodynamics and the principle of Least Action ; some of these investigations are criticised in the first part of the

