V. Some Observations upon Vipers ; on occasion of the foregoing Relation .
By C. J. Sprengell , M. D. F. R. S. AT Milan I found a Viper-Catcher , who seldom was without 60 , or more , Vipers alive , kept together in a back Room open at the Top ; he had them from all Parts of Italy , and sold them dead or alive , according to the Uses they were designed for .
He having got one day a female Viper big with young , gave me notice to see her manage her Prey ; whereupon we catch 'd some Mice , and throwing them in one at a Time , amongst all that Number of Vipers , ( which were rather above 60 ) there was none of them , that in the least concerned himself about the Mouse , till the last mentioned pregnant female Viper and the Mouse interchanged Eyes ; whereupon the Mouse startled , but the Viper raised her Head , and turned her Neck into a perfect Bow , the Mouth open , the Tongue playing , the Eyes all on Fire , and the Tail erect .
The Mouse seemed soon recovered of his Fright , would take a Turn or two , and sometimes more , pretty briskly , round the Viper , and giving now and then a Squeak , would run with a great deal of Swiftness into the Chops of the Viper , where it gradually sunk down the Gullet .
All this while the Viper never stirred out of its Place , but lay in a Ring .
It is to be observed , that no Viper will feed , when confined , except a female Viper impregnated .
1 The same I saw at Brussels , where a Soldier had catch 'd a large Viper big with young .
The House , where I and some of my Companions lodged , was near the FishMarket , where my Landlord had a Sow , and five small Pigs of nine or ten Days old .
We got one of the Pigs , which we caus 'd to be bit by the Viper in the Tail , and in four Minutes time chopped off the Tail , the Pig appearing to be sick and dizzy , and the remaining part of the Tail being swelled ; but I believe the bleeding saved it , for the next Morning it was well again .
The same happened to another Pig , which we had got bit in the fore Foot , and staying seven Minutes after the Bite , cut off his Leg about two Inches above the Bite .
After these two , we took the other three , and had them bit in several Places , whereof two died that Night , and the third recovered , we having given it , about five or six Minutes afterwards , ten Grains of Emetic Tartar .
This I tried afterwards upon Dogs bit by Vipers , and I found that they all recovered upon the Emetic Tartar .

