557 Turbellaria.\#151 ; By George Gulliver , ( Plate LV .
) Two forms of considerable interest belonging to tliis group were found to be tolerably abundant .
They belong to the genera Tetrastemma and and I can scarcely entertain a doubt that these animals will finally prove to have a much wider geographical range , or , in other words , that it would be premature to regard them as peculiar to the island of Bodriguez .
I may also express it as my belief , that the Land Planarians are much more numerous than lias been supposed hitherto ; but , unfortunately , with but few exceptions , Zoologists who have visited this region , have paid but little attention to them .
The species of Tetrastemma is , I believe , the third Land Nemertean which has been discovered , one having been found by Semper in the Pelew Islands , and another quite recently by the late Dr. Von Willemoes Sulim in the Bermudas , which he has described in " Annals and Magazine of Natural History , " 1873 , xiii .
, p. 309 .
He expresses it there as his opinion that land Nemerteans are much more common on tropical islands than has commonly been supposed , and the discovery of one at Bodriguez goes a long way towards justifying his supposition .
Dr. Sulim 's , like mine , is a species of Tetrastemma ( T. agricola ) , but the present species is much more truly a terrestrial species than his , inasmuch as it occurs in woods\#151 ; in damp rotten wood\#151 ; and similar situations .
This was the case also with that discovered by Semper .
The animal was killed almost immediately by immersion in salt-water , for which it showed its distaste by rapidly exserting its proboscis , as it does when placed in alcohol .
Presh water , on the contrary , was by no means so distasteful to the animal , and I have had them remain alive for a whole night in it .
It never , however , was observed to attempt to crawl on the upper surface of the water , though it would ascend the sides of the glass , and , if possible , settle itself outside the water .
All the specimens seemed to be exceedingly torpid , and showed no disposition to move .
If disturbed in their lodgment in rotten wood they appeared to shrink away into some recess , but never attempted to move for any length of time .
It would seem to be very probable that this season was one of torpidity with them .
Tetrastemma rodericanum.\#151 ; ( Plate LV .
, fig. 2 .
) Specific character.\#151 ; Body narrow , elongated : dorsal surface dark green with a narrow white streak along the median line , and one at each side near the ventral surface .
Ventral surface white .
Head of a lighter green colour than the dorsal surface of the body , and having four white spots on the snout , visible when the animal is looked at from before .
Marginal stylet sacs four .
Cephalic sacs absent Habitat.\#151 ; On rotten wood , under decayed leaves , \amp ; c. in the Island of Rodriguez The animal is from one to three inches in length .
The dorsal surface is convex the ventral flat .
The colour of the dorsal surface is generally a very dark green hut occasionally the shade is a good deal lighter than usual .
The lateral white lines are broader than the median one .
The head is bifid anteriorly .
Of the four white spots one is situated laterally on each lobe of the snout , and of the remaining two , one corresponds to the aperture of the proboscis , and one to the mouth .
Anatomy.\#151 ; Tetrastemma Rodericanum corresponds very closely in the arrange-ment of its internal organs with the other members of the Enoplan division .
It presents however certain peculiarities which are worthy of mention .
Cephalic fissures and sacs.\#151 ; No trace of the cephalic fissures or of the sacs to which they lead , could , after careful examination , be detected .
This was also the case in the Bermudian Tetrastemma described by Hr .
Suhm .
Proboscis.\#151 ; As in Amphiporus hastatus , there are four marginal stylet sacs situated in the same plane .
The structure of the proboscis corresponds very closely with that of other members of the group .
There is however one respect in which it appears to be peculiar , namely in the possession of an additional system of circular fibres which traverses the great longitudinal columns which constitute the so-called " beaded layer " ( Plate LV .
, fig. 8 ) .
As in the other Enopla , each of the great longitudinal bands is surrounded by fibres which are perhaps derived in part from the external , and in part from the internal , circular coats , but the system of fibres just mentioned is additional to these , though mingled with them .
It cuts through the longitudinal fasciculi , dividing each fasiculus into an inner and outer half , constituting a distinct circular coat ( Plate LV .
, fig. 9 , E ) .
These fibres are wavy , as are also the others just spoken of as surrounding the longitudinal fasciculi .
None of the fibres are distinctly traceable among the bundles of longitudinal muscular fibres .
Whilst the internal circular and external circular coats , and the external longitudinal and internal longitudinal muscular coats , are readily stained by carmine , the longitudinal elastic bundles , with the fibres which surround , and those which traverse them , do not take the staining fluid at all .
Nervous system.\#151 ; The general arrangement of the nervous system presents no peculiarities .
The distinction between the fibrous and cellular elements in the lateral nerve trunks is , however , remarkable from its clearness and constancy of the arrangement of the two elements .
Well marked groups of nerve-cells are present also in the ganglia , and are continuous with the cellular elements of the TURBELLARIA.\#151 ; GEORGE GULLIVER .
lateral cords .
Owing to the difficulty of obtaining symmetrical sections of the ganglia , it is very hard to gain anything like a notion of the arrangement of the cells in those bodies .
In size and form the ganglionic cells appear to he identical with those of cords , the general arrangement of which can readily he studied in transverse sections .
In the present species the cells have a definite arrangement which does not appear to have been the case in any of the species examined hy previous writers .
The arrangement is in all the more easy to study , as the cells are deeply stained hy carmine or logwood , whilst the fibres are comparatively unstained .
If a transverse section he made through a lateral nerve trunk at any part of the body , appearances similar to those figured in Plate LV .
figs. 4 , 5 , 6 , will he seen .
The trunk itself is somewhat kidney shaped in section , the convexity being towards the integumental , and the concavity towards the visceral , aspect of the body .
It is bound down to the body-wall by well marked fibres .
There are seen to be two cell regions , and two fibrillar regions .
The uppermost or dorsal cell region ( Pig .
6 A. ) crosses the cord , obliquely slanting inwards and downwards .
Above it , is the upper fibrillar region 0 .
, and below it the lower fibrillar region , D. The upper cellular region is , allowing for slight variations , constantly expanded at its external , and to a much less degree at its internal , extremity .
The lower cellular region B. occupies the ventral part of the cord , and is in contact below with the sheath .
It has a more or less crescentic form , tending to have its outer horn prolonged to meet the external and lower extremity of the upper cellular region .
In some sections the two regions may be seen to meet , but always by a very narrow belt of cells , whilst in most cases the two regions are , as in Pig .
6 , separated by the lower fibrillar region .
The arrangement here mentioned and figured is so constant that there is never any difficulty in distinguishing the dorsal from the ventral , or the inner from the outer aspect of the cord , in the abscence of any other guide but the arrangement of its cells and fibres .
The cells themselves are of small size , granular in structure , and never present an appearance of a distinct nucleus and nucleolus as do those from the ganglia of figured by Moseley in the " Phil. Trans. , " 1874 , Plate XV .
, nor can any sign of processess arising from them be detected , though in some cases the matrix in which they lie suggests the presence of them from having a fibrillar appearance .
Pine bands of fibres , Pig .
6 E. , may be constantly seen running into the masses of nerve fibres .
They appear to be in a large measure fibrous septa running into these masses , but may in part be fibres derived from the cells , though no distinct evidence of this has been obtained .
With regard to the structure of the fibrillar masses themselves , as might be expected , nothing definite can be made out .
In transverse section they appear granular , having the fibres just mentioned running into them at parts .
j Eyes.\#151 ; The eye consists of an anterior clear , and a posterior pigmented , portion In form it resembles that figured by Leydig as occurring in lactea ( " Voni Bau des Thierischen Korpers , " pi .
I. ) .
In specimens preserved in alcohol , the eye pigment has a tawny brown colour .
It was suggested to me by Dr. Rolleston that this might be due to the solvent action of the alcohol , and , accordingly , having examined some specimens which had been preserved in chromic acid , and found the eye pigment of these to be of a deep black colour , it was at once obvious that such was the case .
Moseley , l. c. p. 121 , appears to doubt the solubility of the pigment of Planarians in alcohol , and mentions that it is especially not the case with the eye pigment of Leptoplana .
Nor is it the case in the planarian , Geoplana about to be described , nor with regard to the body pigment of the present species of Tetrastemma .
It is however most undoubtedly the case that the eye pigment of the latter is soluble in alcohol .
Cephalic Glandular Mass.\#151 ; Commencing at a very short distance from the snout of the animal , persisting throughout the whole oesophageal region , and , if one may so express it , occupying the space , which after the termination of the oesophagus is filled up by the voluminous digestive tract is a mass , which is here described as glandular , without , it must be confessed , much knowledge as to its true nature .
It is figured as it appears under a low power in PI .
LV .
fig. 3 , E. Under a high power this mass consists of spaces irregular in shape and size , and enclosed by a tissue which is in part homogeneous and in part fibrous .
In the spaces thus enclosed there is amorphous granular material , but no distinct appearance of cells .
Connective Tissue.\#151 ; Dr. Hubrecht has , loc. cit. , insisted with great justice on the importance of the " fibro-muscular connective tissue , " which serves to support the various internal organs by bands of fibres which pass from the body-wall to these organs .
In the present species this system is well developed , and , as in other species , is most marked where spaces intervene between , the internal organs and the body-wall .
Thus fibres constantly bind down the lateral nerve-trunks to the body wall ( Eig .
6 , E. ) , and in like manner pass from the body-wall to the dorsal surfaces of the proboscis sheath and digestive tract .
But the connective tissue in this species presents a feature which has not hitherto been described , namely , the presence of cells in addition to fibres .
These cells are represented in figures 4 and 5 E. , and , highly magnified , in Eig .
6 G. and in Eig .
7 .
These cells are large and of fairly uniform size , though , scattered amongst them , are , as may be seen in Eig .
7 , a few of much less magnitude .
At parts these cells present the appearance of being connected with fibres , as is the case with the cell B , in Eig .
7 .
They present a well-marked nucleus and nucleolus , and might at first in female specimens be mistaken for young ova , as they are especially numerous in the vicinity of the lateral nerve trunks .
They may with care be traced all round the body internal to the inner muscular coat , being recognizable in a single layer , and having a flattened appearance , TURBELLARIA.\#151 ; GEORGE GULLIVER .
in places where the voluminous digestive tract is in close apposition with the body wall , whereby it makes the recognition of separate fibres out of the question .
Vascular System.\#151 ; The opacity of this species makes the study of this system very difficult , as no general view can be obtained .
In Eig .
3 .
D. the two lateral vascular trunks are seen in section .
Generative System.\#151 ; The arrangement of the generative organs presents nothing peculiar .
The animal is dioecious .
Eig .
4 represents the general arrangement of the testicular masses , and fig. 5 shows an ovum lying in its sac .
In all cases the male organs seem to hear a much greater proportion to the size of the body than do the female .
In some sections I have observed the appearance of ducts passing from the testis through the body-wall , but not with sufficient constancy or distinctness to justify any lengthened description .
Digestive Tracts.\#151 ; The digestive tract has the usual arrangement .
The mouth and oesophagus present well marked cilia .
The contents of the post-gesophageal portion of the digestive tract has a uniform granular appearance , many of the granules being like oil globules .
In none of the specimens examined has anything definite been observed that would lead to a knowledge of what the animal feeds upon , and , in fact , at the time when the specimens were collected , it is very probable that the animals were torpid and not feeding at all .
Beside the Nemertine , I was fortunate enough to obtain specimens of a small species of Land Planarian , which occurs in situations similar to those in which the Nemertine lives , and , indeed , is often found together with it .
Wishing to ascertain where this animal should be placed , and referring to the arrangement of Mr. Stimpson ( Proc. Acad. Phil. , 1857 ) , I found that he states , under the characters of his sub-family Geoplanidcp , that the eyes are two or many situated in the anterior part of the body ( " Oculi duo vel plurimi in capite dispositi .
" ) This part of the diagnosis Mr. Moseley ( loc. cit.)has very properly altered in consequence of his discovery of eyes in various parts of the body in The genus the first under Mr. Stimpson 's sub-family , has amongst its other characters this \lt ; c ocelli numerosi marginales , v. in acervos submarginales , in capite dispositi .
" This genus is composed of all the species described by Mr. Darwin ( Ann. Not .
Hist. , Series i. vol. xiv .
) , except those which have no eyes , and of one species found and described by Mr. Stimpson himself .
But there appears nothing in Mr. Darwin 's description to justify Mr. Stimpson using the words " in capite dispositi .
" Eor instance , in describing Planaria vaginuloides ( Stimpson ) , Mr. Darwin says , " Ocelli numerous , placed at regular intervals round the anterior extremity of the body and irregularly round the foot .
" Again , in the description of Bl .
tasmanica , " Ocelli scattered round the entire margin of the foot , but most frequent at the anterior extremity , " Mr. Stimpson 's words " in capite dispositi " must mean , " in capite solum dispositiat least Mr. Moseley has taken them to mean this , and it would he difficult to put any other construction on them .
This explanation is necessary , as the planarian which exists in Rodriguez has , like PI .
tasmanica , eyes situated round the entire margin of the foot , hut more frequent at the anterior extremity .
In other respects this agrees in its characters with the genus Geoplana ; and it seems to he necessary then to alter the characters of this genus , as Mr. Moseley has done those of the genus in order that the former may include Mr. Darwin 's species and the present one .
The latter I propose to name G. whartoni , after my friend Commander Wharton , R.N. , lately in command of H.M.S. " Shearwater .
" Geoplana ( altered from Stimpson ) .
Corpus depressum , vel depressiusculum , elongatum v. lineare , capite continuo .
Ocelli numerosi , marginales , v. suhmarginales ; v. in part anteriori corporis solum , vel passim circa corpus , singulatim plerumque , nonnunquam in acervos dispositi .
G. wliartoni , \#151 ; PL LV .
, fig. 1 .
Body elongate , pointed at hotli ends .
Eyes numerous , placed singly all round the margin of the foot , hut most numerous at the anterior extremity .
Body cream coloured , and marked with three dark longitudinal stripes , one median and two lateral , which latter converge towards the extremities and meet the median one .
Mouth placed behind the centre of the body .
Generative orifice nearer to the posterior end of the body than to the mouth .
Body one inch to an inch and a half long when extended , much less when at rest .
Habitat.\#151 ; In the island of Rodriguez on rotten wood .
Mr. Darwin mentions ( loo .
cit. ) that he found a Land Planarian at Mauritius .
In the island of Make in the Seychelles group , I observed an animal of similar size and colour , which unfortunately became dry before I had time to examine it .
Description of Plate LIE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Geoplana whartoni , sp. nov .
, about twice the natural size , from a specimen preserved in alcohol .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Testrastemma rodericanum , sp. nov .
, about three times the natural size , from a specimen preserved in alcohol .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Transverse section through the anterior part of the body of a specimen of T. Rodericanum .
Hartnack 's Obj .
2 .
Drawn with the camera lucida , as were also the succeeding figures .
A. Cuticular and muscular layers of the body-wall .
.B .
( Esophagus .
C. Proboscidean sheath .
D. Vessels .
E. Lateral nerve trunk .
F.F. Cephalic glandular mass .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Transverse section through the middle part of the body of a male individual ot the same species .
Hartnack Obj .
4 .
TURBELLARIA.\#151 ; GEORGE GULLIVER , A. Cuticle .
B. Circular muscular coat .
C. Longitudinal muscular coat .
E. Testicular masses having well defined walls , enclosing cells and spermatozoa .
F. Connective tissue , consisting of cells and fibres .
G. Portion of intestinal tract with granular contents .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Similar section through a portion of the body of a female .
A , B , C , D , F , G , as in the preceding figure .
E. an ovum contained in its sac , and possessing a well marked nucleus and nucleolus .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Transverse section of lateral nerve trunk , highly magnified .
Hartnack 's Obj .
8 .
A. Dorsal cellular region .
B. Ventral cellular region .
C. Dorsal fibrillar region .
D. Ventral fibrillar region .
E.E. Fibres running into the fibrillar masses , probably consisting mainly of connective tissue , but perhaps in part of processes from the cell regions .
F. Fibrous bands binding down the cord .
G. Connective tissue cells .
H. Internal muscular coat .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Portion of a transverse section highly magnified , to show the connective tissue .
A. Int. muscular coat shown in outline .
The fibres represented passed between it and a portion of the digestive tract .
D. Fibres of connective tissue .
B. A large connective tissue cell , with fibre attached , other cells mostly large , but some small are also seen .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Section through a portion of the extended proboscis to show the arrangement of the " beaded layer .
" Hartnack .
Obj .
8 .
A. Internal circular muscular coat .
B. External circular muscular coat .
C. Internal longl .
muscular coat .
D. External longitudinal muscular coat .
E. One of the great longitudinal bands surrounded by fine wavy fibres , and also divided by similar fibres which pass through it ; all these fibres go to constitute the circular elastic coat .
F. The circular elastic coat .
4 b 2 Vans .
of Venus Expel .
Rodrigue Ti .\#166 ; Zoology PI .
LV Fig 8 .
MmternBros .
imp .

