On the Development of the Ductless Glands in the Chick .
By HENRY GRAY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George 's Hospital .
Communicated by WILLIAM BOWMAN , Esq. , F.RPS .
Received November 12 , 1851 , -Read January 15 , 1852 .
HAVING been engaged for some period in investigating the evolution of the spleen , supra-renal and thyroid glands , and the several tissues of which each is composed , and having arrived at some conclusions which differ from those previously given , I have ventured to lay them before the Royal Society .
Development of the Spleen .
Before describing the results of my own investigations , I may mention that ARNOLD *states that the spleen arises like the pancreas from the duodenum , and exists at first as a common mass with that gland ; whilst BISCHOFFt believes that it arises from a mass of blastema , at first common both to this organ and the pancreas , that forming the pancreas proceeding from the duodenum , and that of the spleen from the great curvature of the stomach .
The description which I now propose to offer , differs from either of those above mentioned .
About the seventy-second hour ( Plate XXI .
fig. 1 ) , I found in the embryo of the chick that the vitelline sac had already sufficiently contracted to form two canals , of which the posterior was small , and only just observable ; but the anterior one was much larger and longer , and took a somewhat tortuous course through the body of the embryo .
No trace of either pancreas or spleen is yet to be observed , but a conical protrusion from the inferior part of this tube indicates the first rudiment of the liver .
At the ninetieth hour ( fig. 2 ) the anterior of the two canals is longer and narrower than the posterior ; it presents two slight dilatations , the first in the situation where the liver and pancreas are developed , the second , and larger , immediately in front of this , indicating the position of the future stomach .
It is at the first-mentioned dilatation , at its upper part , and behind the stomach , that the pancreas is developed .
This rudimentary gland , at this period , consists of a flask-shaped mass of dark granular blastema , connected by a broad peduncle with the wall of the intestinal tube , from .
which it is apparently a protrusion , being of a similar structure with it .
That part connected with the intestine is narrow and tubular , its distal portion being spherical , and its surface slightly lobulated .
There is no trace of any subdivision of this body into two portions , nor at its distal end can any trace of a spleen be as yet observed .
Nearly the whole length of the above mentioned two canals have connected with them above a delicate fold of membrane , the " intestinal lamina , " which serves to connect them with the vertebral column beneath .
At the 114th hour ( fig. 3 ) the anterior prolongation of the vitelline sac presents a double curvature , the concavity of one being directed towards the under , the other towards the upper surface of the embryo ; it is in this latter that the rudimentary pancreas may now be clearly seen .
This organ now appears as an elongate , dark granular , tubular mass , situated in that curved portion of the intestinal canal which is the rudiment of the duodenum ; its direction is in the transverse axis of the embryo , one extremity being connected to the primitive intestinal tube , into which it may be seen to open by a distinct tubular prolongation , the other being separated from the spleen by a distinct granular blastema ; its margins are not very distinct , and its contents and wall are darkly granular .
The spleen makes its first appearance at this period in a fold of the " intestinal lamina , " which below is continuous with the edge of the intestine , as far as the constricted portion of the vitellary sac , and above with the lower part of the rudimentary stomach .
It is a small oval whitish mass , situated near to the distal end of the pancreas , but perfectly separate from this body .
This separation is more evident at this period than at any other of its first stages of development ; for a distinct granular membrane now divides them , whilst also the dark granular tinge of the pancreatic mass , and the lighter colour of the rudimentary spleen make this distinction more manifest .
At a more advanced period of their development , the increased size of both organs causes them to approximate more closely , although not more intimately to one another , and it is this latter circum-j stance that has given rise to the great difference of opinion regarding the development of these parts .
The organ , which has now a greyish tinge , lies parallel with the body , and tapers at both ends , the lower one being connected with the fold of the blastema , attached below to the intestine and vitellary membrane , the upper one continuous with the upper part of the same fold , which passes to the surface of the rudimentary stomach .
On the fifth day ( fig. 4 ) the pancreas and spleen may still be observed as two separate and independent masses of blastema , the former of which forms a distinct opake transverse tract of white matter , which stretches upwards and backwards from the rudimentary duodenal loop , the spleen existing as a reddish round mass occupying its opposite extremity .
The rudimentary pancreas is elongated , and presents an indistinct external margin , which is somewhat convoluted .
From the end , near the centre of that curvature of the canal which would correspond to the duodenum , an offset is given off , which consists of a dark narrow tube with very distinct matgins , communicating with the dark margin of the canal itself .
This I believe to be the rudiment of the pancreatic duct .
The spleen at this period consists of a dark mass of blastema , distinct from all the surrounding parts ; when seen with the naked eye it is of an opake white , or slightly-reddish colour ; its shape is circular or reniform , and it is situated close to the end of the pancreas below and beneath the rudimentary stomach .
The organ consists of part of a tract of blastema , which at the upper and lower extremities of the spleen are continued from it , in one direction , towards the lower end of the stomach , in the other , backwards warards the intestine .
It occupies the free margin of the fold of the " intestinal lamina , " which presents a direction similar to what was observed on the fourth day of incubation .
On the sixth day ( fig. 5 ) , the anterior prolongation of the vitelline duct forms two very considerable curves , the one nearest to the stomach , the convexity of which is directed downwards , having become completely developed into the duodenal loop , and in this loop the pancreas is plainly visible , the rudimentary spleen occupying its distal extremity .
The position of these parts is now somewhat altered , passing obliquely upwards and backwards , instead of transversely , as on the fifth day .
This appears to depend upon the alteration in the form and position of the intestine , which , being curved more upwards , would necessarily give to these parts a more oblique direction .
The spleen is at this period distinctly visible to the naked eye , it is seen below and beneath the stomach ; its shape is reniform , being prolonged into two extremities , one at its upper , the other at its lower part ; it is situated at the edge of the fold of the intestinal lamina , which stretches from the lower end of the stomach across the intestine to the vitelline duct .
The lower prolonged extremity is the more distinct of the two , and is to be traced for some little distance along the margih and in the substance of this fold , being ultimately lost in it .
The other extremity , or that connected to the stomach , is more rounded , and is connected through the interposition of the same fold of membrane to the lower part of the stomach itself .
Its position is now somewhat altered , it being placed above and slightly behind the stomach ; its upper edge being on a level with the rudimentary proventriculus .
At the point where the spleen was connected with the pancreas , an apparent continuity of substance was found between them ; but this was not really so , for the two organs were to be observed to be separate from one another from the great difference in their texture , the substance of the rudimentary pancreas being darkly granular , whilst that of the spleen was of a lighter colour .
On the seventh day ( fig. 6 ) the spleen is of a patchy reddish tinge , from the presence of blood in its substance ; and its position is now precisely the same as in the adult bird , occupying the space at the back part of the proventriculus , which exists now as a separate and distinct pouch ; the surface of the organ is slightly lobulated , expecially towards its two extremities .
It is now enclosed by a distinct membrane , and occupies the gastric surface of the distal end of the pancreas ; its shape is pyriform , the rounded end being directed backwards and upwards , and the narrow end forwards , into the interval between the commencement of the duodenum and pancreas ; these two extremities are still connected by folds of membrane with the stomach and mesentery ; they proceed from the back part of the organ , and apparently surround it .
On the eighth day the organ has increased somewhat in size , being now about as large as a small millet-seed , forming a round reddish projecting mass from the surface of the membranous fold in which it was developed , and which is now becoming more delicate and indistinct , as if in process of absorption .
although its attachments still remain the same .
From this period the spleen enlarges gradually , being on the twelfth day about the size of a swall pea ; its colour becomes of a more vivid red , and its form somewhat circular ; it is held in its position by the vessels which proceed to it , and by a fold of membrane , the edge of which is cordlike , that passes from its lower end to the inferior border of the stomach , the remaining portion of the membrane in which it was developed having become completely absorbed .
With the exception of a continued increase in the growth of the organ , which takes place more rapidly after the vessels supplying it are formed , its form position and attachments remain precisely the same as in the adult bird .
From the preceding observations it is seen that the spleen is developed from the surface of a fold of the " intestinal lamina , " in the form of a small oval-shaped mass of blastema , quite independent either of the pancreas or stomach ; that in process of time this organ approximates more closely , although not more intimately to both these organs ; and as its vessels are formed , the membrane in which it was developed becomes absorbed , with the exception of a delicate fold , which in the adult bird serves to connect this organ with the stomach .
I shall in the next place proceed to consider the development of the different tissues of the spleen , the observations concerning which , I think , are very important , as they tend to prove , not only the glandular nature of the organ itself , but the great correspondence that the development of its tissues presents , as compared with the supra-renal and thyroid glands .
On the Development of the Tissues of the Spleen .
Of the Capsule.-The first indication of the external capsule of the spleen I observed on the ninth day , in the form of a thin and delicate transparent membrane , which completely surrounded the organ ; its texture consisted of a fine granular membrane , in which were observed numerous minute nucleated fibres .
About the twelfth day this membrane was more distinct , and more easily separable from the surface of the organ ; its texture was soft , of a greyish colour , consisting of a finely delicate granular membrane , in which numerous small nuclei , with elongated fibres proceeding from either end , were observed .
On the eleventh day the capsule was more distinct , less transparent , thicker in texture , and more adherent to the parts beneath ; its texture being composed of numerous nuclei , contained in a granular tmembrane , with delicate fibres , some of which possessed a nucleus , but in others it had completely disappeared .
On the twenty-first day , the capsule , although more distinct , was intimately connected with the parts beneath , and was composed of a dense mesh of delicate fibrilke , in most of which no nuclei could be detected .
The Development of the Trabecular Tissue .
The development of the trabeculke commences as early as the eighth -day of incubation ; previous to this period the chief mass of the substance of the spleen is made up of nuclei , containing in their interior one or more dark dotted granules ; at this period , however , spindle-shaped pale granular fibres , containing in their centre an oval elongate nucleus , with a nucleolus , may be observed sparingly throughout the substance of the organ .
On the ninth day , similar but more numerous fibres may be observed , either separately or in delicate cylindrical , or riband-like bundles .
By the fourteenth day these fibres have increased very considerably in quantity , forming innumerable fine fibrillated bands , intersecting the entire substance of the organ , much as in the adult state .
On the Development of the Blood-Vessels and the Blood .
The blood-vessels which supply the spleen , the separate vessels of this organ , and the blood , have a completely separate , though concurrent development .
ITlhey are all observed about the eighth day of incubation ( fig. 7 ) The splenic artery , which is developed a little previous to the vein , may be now observed as a delicate white tract of blastema , running from , the inferior and posterior angle of the spleen to the descending aorta ; on arriving at the inner side of the organ , ,a prolongation of the samue colour may be observed passing to the upper end of the stomach , just beneath the proventriculus , and one or two to the front of the same organ ; it then runs along the inner margin of the spleen , and is ultimately lost in the.substance of the pallcreas and in the duodenal fold .
No similar tract could however l)e found , after repeated examination , to pass into the substance of the spleen , although at the same Period capillaries containing perfectly formed discs , but as yet having no proper coats , and apparently merely formed by the walls of cells agglomerated together , were seen to be arranged in a branching manner throughout the substance of the organ .
On the ninth day this vessel presents a reddish tinge , and its distribution is the same as in the adult bird .
Two small branches are now observed to be given off to the substance of the spleen , from the vessel previously described , as it runs along the inner side of the organ .
The splenic vein makes its first appearance on the thirteenth day , in the form of a reddish white tract of blastema , which runs forward and joins with the left side of the mesenteric vein , which is formed on the twelfth day .
On the fourteenth day , the splenic vein consists of three small branches , larger than the arteries , which , uniting together , empty themselves into the mesenteric vein .
The development of the blood-globules in the spleen , as well as the various changes they undergo in the substance of this organ , are points of the very highest import , from the great difference of opinion that at present exists regarding its use , GERLACH and ScHXFFNER believing that the spleen is the organ in which the blooddiscs are formed during extra-uterine life , whilst KOLLIKER , BECLARD and ECKER , suppose that the blood-globules are destroyed there .
The blood-discs in the spleen , as I have already mentioned , make their first appearance in this organ about the eighth day .
They are oval or circular , varying somewhat in size , and consisting of an external envelope , pale , homogeneous and indistinct , having a nucleus on its wall , which is dark , highly refractive , irregularly circular , and in some cases of a granular texture .
Some of these globules may be distinctly seen in an incipient stage of formation , and consist of a dark , and at first , a somewhat irregular granular nucleus , around which a delicate cell-wall may be observed .
Although I have observed this in several cases I do not presume the spleen to be the organ in which the development of the blood-globules takes place during intra-uterine life , nor have I observed that the development of the blood-discs continues to take place in it after its connection with the general vascular system is effected .
With regard to the disintegration of the blood-globules , after the most repeated and careful examinations , I have failed indetecting anything that would lead me to suppose that this organ can , during its progress of development , perform the function KOLLIKER and others have assigned to it in its adult state .
On the Development of the Pulp .
The entire substance of the spleen at an early period of its development is almost precisely similar in structure with the supra-renal and thyroid glands , with which it may consequently be allied .
As the evolution of the organ proceeds , part becomes developed into trabeculh , part into blood-vessels and blood , whilst the greater portion remains to form the essential element of the organ , the pulp tissue On the fifth day this substance presents the following elementary comX position .
It is composed of nuclei , varying in form and size .
The greater majority are irregularly circular , their sides and edges being flattened at some points , so as to give them an angular form ; some , however , are perfectly circular ; they are pale , and their outer margins dark and well-defined , whilst in their interior may be observed , one , two , or more dark granules .
These form a very considerable portion of the substance of the pulp , not only at this , but also at every other period of its development .
A few nucleated spherical vesicles may also be observed , their outer margin exceedingly delicate ; and on their wall may be seen a small irregular dark-edged nucleus ; sometimes the nucleus is more circular , and contains a nucleolus , whilst the interior of the vesicle contains a few delicate pale granules .
With the exception of a few small dark and highly refractive oil-granules , and a fine pale granular plasma , in which the above elements lie , they constitute the entire mass of the pulp tissue at this period .
The next change observable takes place concurrent with the formation of the vessels which supply the organ , and which is soon followed by an increase of its size .
Now , besides the elements already described as forming its structure , there maybe observed nuclei , similar to those constituting the pulp at an early period , but having a quantity of fine dark granules surrounding them in a circular form .
There are also observed many nucleated vesicles , rather larger than the blood-corpuscles , the nuclei in which are circular , whilst the cavity of the vesicle contains also a few small pale granules .
Some small masses of reddish brown granules may also be observed ; they exist , however , very sparingly .
From the time when the formation of the arteries supplying the organ is completed , up to that when the splenic vein is observed to be also constituted , these latter elements not only form a portion of the pulp , but are in fact its chief components .
When , however , the splenic vein is nearly completed , a considerable change is observed to have occurred in the nucleated vesicles ; those which had previously formed only a small portion of its substance , now exist as the chief element , and the majority contain a nucleus with irregular margins .
Their form is chiefly circular , their outer wall in some cases very distinct , in others less so , from the cell being distended with dark granules .
There is generally only a single nucleus , which has a dark outer margin , and contains either a nucleolus or two or three granules .
In some the nucleus is of an irregular form , and more indistinct ; the cavity of the cell in these cases containing a few granules , as the nuclei become more irregular and granular ; these granules increase until at last the nucleus appears to be entirely broken up , when they all become crowded with small granules .
Such is the structure the pulp tissue of the spleen presents , from the period when the splenic vein is formed , up to the time when incubation is completed .
Development of the Malpighian Vesicles .
The vesicles of the spleen are developed in a manner perfectly similar to those of the supra-renal and thyroid glands , with which they appear to bear a very close analogy ; they are not developed , however , in the chick until the period of incubation is near to its completion .
Between the twentieth and the twenty-first days there may be observed at the angles of division of the smaller blood-vessels , as well as upon the walls of the vessels themselves , rather large masses of nuclei and granules , arranged together in a circular form ; these masses are not , however , at this period enclosed by any investing membrane , but are rather intimately connected with the walls of the vessels , as they are not removed by delicate manipulation , and only when a greater amount of force is used .
A few days after incubation is completed these vesicles are observed to be partly surrounded by a faintly delicate homogeneous membrane , and in about a week the vesicles are distinctly fornwd , and present the same structure as in the adult bird ; they are circular or oval , varying considerably in size , and consisting of an outer investing membrane , pale , homogeneous , or faintly granular in texture , and containing in their interior a mass of nuclei and numerous small dark granules .
Development of the Suprca-renal Glands .
The development of the supra-renal glands being described differently by various physiologists , I shall first briefly detail the researches made by others upon this point .
ARNOLD ( op .
cit. ) states that they are derived from the Wolfian bodies by means of a fissure , and that they have the same structure as these organs , a statement which has not , however , been confirmed by any other author .
VALENTIN and MECKEL believed that the supra-renal bodies exist first as a single mass , which is placed above and in front of the kidneys , and which afterwards divides itself into two lateral halves ; whilst J. MULLER and BIsCHOFF , on the contrary , state that they have always observed them double , although no account of their origin has been given by them .
Mr. T. GOODSIR is the only author , as far as I am aware , who has attempted to prove the close affinity the ductless glands ( excepting the spleen ) have to each other , by tracing out their gradual evolution in the embryo .
He states that all of them ( excepting the spleen ) arise in involuted portions of the membrana intermedia , and that at an early period of embryonic life they communicate with one another .
He concludes from this apparent fact , their original identity of function , which he says is that of elaborating a nutrient material , an office which the germinal mneembrane itself performs during foetal life .
The description that I shall now venture to offer , differs from any that has been previously given of the evolution of this gland .
I trust however that I may be able to prove the close affinity that it has both with the spleen and also with the thyroid , not so much from any resemblance that it may present in its manner of evolution , but from the similitude it presents in its elementary parts , and in the development of those elements to their perfect form .
Between the sixth and seventh days of incubation , I observed that the Wolffian bodies had become contracted in their length , and more curved upon themselves than at an earlier period of their development , being somewhat reniform in shape , and attenuated at their upper extremities .
Along the inner margin of these bodies was observed the ovaries , each of which consisted of a small oval mass of whitish blastema , occupying the central portion of each body , approximating , but not joining one another below , whilst they diverge from one another above .
Between the Wolffian bodies may be observed the aorta , which bifurcates below into two lateral and a continuous branch .
At this period the supra-renal glands , which , as will be seen , exist at a later period in the interval between the upper ends of the Wolffian bodies and the sides of the aorta , could not be observed .
On the close of the seventh day ( fig. 9 ) , I observed in the interval between the sides of the descending aorta , and the upper and inner sides of the Wolffian bodies , a patchy reddish grey granular mass of blastema , without any distinct form or outline ; whilst both the pointed but rounded margins of the primordial kidneys and the ovaries were plainly seen .
On tracing this granular mass upwards along the sides of the aorta , it was completely lost in the general formative mass which surrounds all these parts .
and after many attempts I was unable to discover any connection between this body and the thyroid and the thymus above ( as stated by Mr. GoODSIR ) , by means of the blastemal tract along the aorta ; nor do I believe that any connection exists between them .
The minute structure of the supra-renal gland at this period bears a very close resemblance to the spleen on the fifth day of incubation ; it consists of nuclei about the size of the blood-discs , the majority of which are circular , pale , and contain in their interior , one , two , or even sometimes more dark granules , -nucleated spherical vesicles , their outer margin very delicate , the interior of the vesicle containing a few delicate granules .
The only difference that exists between the minute structure of the spleen and the supra-renal gland , is the presence in the latter of numerous small dark granules , like fat granules , and which are in some cases accumulated in small circular masses .
With this exception no difference can be observed in their minute structure at an early period .
On the eighth day the supra-renal glands consist of two grayish white masses , which lie one on each side of the aorta , between this tube and the upper and inner extremity of the Wolffian bodies , and are perfectly separate .
They are elongated and rounded at both ends , but they do not present any external circumscribed margin .
They are situated , for part of their extent , higher than the upper extremity of the Wolffian bodies , the upper margins of which are distinct and well-defined , as contrasted with the uneven outline of the supra-renal gland .
On the right side , the gland is placed completely above the corresponding ovary , but on the left a small part is hidden beneath the left ovary .
The texture of the organ is opake , and darkly granular throughout .
At this period a considerable advance is observed in the development of the tissues of the gland , for they even now present an incomplete vesicular arrangement ; this however is not surprising , when it is considered that its chief function is probably performed during feetal life .
Its tissues have consequently a more rapid development than those of the spleen , an organ the function of which is exercised mainly in adult life .
The imperfect vesicles of which this organ is partly formed , consists of a mass of nuclei , similar to those above described , amongst which are scattered a small quantity of fine dark granules ; these masses of nuclei are arranged together in a circular form , without any investing membrane surrounding them ; in some cases , however , a fine membrane could be observed in one part only of the circumference of the forming vesicle , whilst the remaining portion was entirely free .
Some of the vesicles were formed of a mass of smaller vesicles , in which nuclei were observed .
The chief majority however were composed of nuclei , fine dark granules , and small dark circular granular masses .
On the ninth day the suprarenal glands are yellowish white , and occupy the same situation as on the previous day , but even at this period are not bounded by any external circumscribed margin ; they are plainly separated from one another by the aorta , and although placed in close contact with the Wolffian body , their different structures at once show them to be distinct organs ; for the dark opake granular structure of the supra-renal glands contrast most strongly with the lighter and more transparent tissue of the Wolffian bodies .
The vesicles of which the organ is at this period composed are circular , or elongate oval , and their contents far more transparent than those observed at a later period of development .
They now present a delicate but well-defined external investing membrane , containing nuclei and a few dark granules .
On the tenth day ( fig. 10 ) the supra-renal glands are pyriform , the broad end being directed upwards , and the apex downwards ; their margins are now also distinctly circumscribed , and their tissue , although dark and opake ( when seen with a low magnifying power ) , is more transparent than the tissue of the gland at a more advanced period of its development .
The vesicles of which they are composed at this period are not all circular , for some are elongated , and present two or sometimes three hemispherical bulgings on their wall , as if apparently formed of the junction of two or more vesicles ; these contain several nuclei and numerous small dark highly refractive granules ; the former are however at this period far more numerous than the latter .
These vesicles vary both in size and form ; they are grouped together in a mass , in which it is as yet impossible to detect any subdivision into cortical or medullary portions .
On the fourteenth day ( fig. I1 ) the supra-renal bodies have somewhat changed their position ; they lie at the back part and inner side of the , upper extremities of the Wolffian bodies , and in front , and at the inner side of the upper end of the kidneys ; their form is of an elongated oval , and the one on the left side is like the corresponding ovary , slightly the larger of the two .
At this period they are connected with the Wolffian bodies through the intervention of a delicate web of areolar tissue. .
The inferior vena cava is now observed passing upwards between these bodies , and closely adherent to their inner sides .
On examining the organ with a low magnifying power , it is seen to consist of a mass of vesicles , which however are not equally distributed throughout the whole of its substance , being aggregated in much larger quantities at the upper , lower , and outer sides of the gland than at its inner side , where it is connected with the vena cava , and at its centre .
These vesicles are large , and radiate from the circumference towards the centre of the gland , in some cases complete tubes of some length being formed by their junction , as indicated by hemispherical bulgings along their walls .
They lie between the meshes of a close plexus of vessels , which run in straight lines from the centre towards the circumference of the gland .
These vesicles , at this period , and up to the time when incubation is completed , consist of an external investing membrane , so delicate as to render its demonstration a matter of some difficulty ; they are full , not of nuclei , as was observed during the first stages of development , but of dark and highly refractive granules , precisely like oil-globules , in such numbers as to completely distend the cavity of the vesicle , and also prevent the nuclei , a few of which still exist in small numbers , from being clearly detected , By the eighteenth day ( fig. 12 ) the glands have enlarged considerably , and are of a deep yellow colour ; their position is now almost precisely the same as in the adult bird ; numerous small vessels ramify upon their surface , and a large vein emerges from their inner sides which empties itself into the vena cava .
A complete division into cortical and medullary portions is now observed .
The former consists of elongated tubes with exceedingly delicate walls , and radiating from the circumference towards the centre of the gland .
These tubes , which at this period exist in greater number , are parallel with one another , and lie between a close mesh of delicate capillary vessels , having a similar direction .
In some cases the simple vesicles placed end to end , but not as yet forming tubes , are disposed in a similar manner between the capillary vessels .
The medullary portion of the gland consists of capillaries , which here join to form larger branches , either previous to their passage from the gland , or before passing into the cortical portion in the form of straight capillaries ; numerous delicate fibres may also be observed joining them together , and forming a close mesh , in which are deposited numerous dotted corpuscles , and a quantity of fine dark granules .
From this time , up to the completion of incubation , no change takes place in the structure of these glands .
From the preceding observations it is seen that the suprarenal glands are developed by two separate masses of blastema , which are situated between the upper and inner extremities of the Wolffian bodies and the sides of the aorta , but which are totally independent ( as far as concerns their development ) of those bodies , or of each other .
It is also seen that their minute structure at an early period closely corresponds with the structure of the spleen ; and although the supra-renal glands attain their maximum degree of development at an earlier period than that organ , as regards the formation of its vesicles , still exactly the same process can be followed in the spleen as regards the development of the Malpighian vesicles ; a fact which , I think , tends to prove the great similarity of the organs in question .
Development of the Thyroid Glands .
The evolution of the thyroid gland , like the spleen and supra-renal capsules , is involved in great obscurity .
The following are the principal accounts of its development that have yet been given .
According to HuSCHKE* the thyroid gland is developed from the anterior bratnchial arches ; no other observer however has verified his statement , and RATHKE altogether denies it .
ARNOLDt states that it is developed from the membranous air-tube , in the situation where the larynx is formed , and that it is at first provided with an excretory duct .
BIscHOFF states that they appear from a single formative mass , which is deposited on each side of the trachea .
The latest researches on the development of the thyroid , appear to be those of Mr. GoODSIR , who states that it is , like the thymus and suprarenal gland , a development from the " 1 membrana intermedia .
" According to my observations , between the sixth and seventh days of incubation , the first trace of the thyroid gland becomes apparent .
, It consists of an exceedingly small spherical whitish mass of blastema , situated on each side of the root of the neck , close to the point where , at a later period , the carotid and subelavian arteries separate from one another .
The outer margin of each mass is somewhat irregular and ill-defined , and is not apparently surrounded by any investing membrane ; above each of them is seen the lower end of the rudimentary thymic tube , the outer margins of which are perfectly distinct from the thyroid .
The carotid vessel runs beneath and on the outer side of the gland , to the wall of which it is somewhat adherent ; and on the inner side runs the rudimentary tracheal tube , with which however it has no connection .
The structure of the glands at this period approximate very closely to 'that of the spleen and supra-renal gland at the earliest stages of their evolution , consisting of granular matter , nuclei , and nucleated vesicles .
The granular matter , which forms a large mass of the substance of the gland , is made up of innumerable minute pale granules , very similar to those observed in the structure of the spleen , but unlike those of the supra-renal glands , the particles composing which are darker and more refractive , not unlike minute fat granules .
The nuclei are about the size of the red blood-discs ; they are pale , perfectly circular , and contain in their interior from one to four or five small dark granules .
These also form a very considerable portion of the structure of the organ .
The vesicles are few in number , pale , and delicate , with nuclei on their walls , and containing in their interior a few fine dark granules .
On the eighth day of incubation the organ has enlarged very slightly , occupying the same position as on the previous day ; its colour is now reddish white , from the presence of blood in its structure ; it is circular , and is bounded externally by a clearly defined marginal membrane , which now surrounds it .
I have never been able , in tracing out the incipient development of these organs , to detect any connection between it and the branchial cleft , the trachea , or the thymus , although its position as regards these parts has probably given rise to the opinions , previously noticed , respecting the origin or connection of the thyroid from one or other of these structures .
It has always appeared to me to arise as a separate mass of blastema , and unconnected , unless by simple apposition , with any other organ .
From this period , up to the tenth day of incubation , the thyroid , with the exception of a slight enlarge .
meant , and a more distinct red colour , presents the same structure , and occupies a similar position as in the previous examinations .
At this period they are found situated a little above the root of the neck , one on each side of the lower end of the trachea , just above its division into the bronchi , and at the point of origin of the carotid vessel .
The organ is now more distinct from its reddish tinge ; its form is circular , its outer margin clear and distinct ; and its substance , when seen with a low magnifying power , moderately transparent .
Its minute structure also now presents a higher stage of development ; for besides consisting , as at an earlier period , of granular matter , nuclei and vesicles , some of which are furnished with nuclei , there are observed numerous circular and tolerably transparent masses of nuclei and vesicles , some perfectly destitute of any investing membrane , but others presenting a fine membrane partially or completely investing them .
In the interspaces between these vesicles numerous blood-discs may be observed , which are apparently not as yet contained in separate tubes .
On the twelfth day , the size of the thyroid about equals that of a millet-seed ; it is bright red , and small vessels may now be traced passing into its substance .
Its minute structure , however , undergoes no change until about the sixteenth day .
At this period a delicate membrane , forming a complete capsule , can be removed from its external surface ; it consists of numerous nucleated fibrilke .
Almost the entire mass of the organ is composed of large circular or oval vesicles , consisting of a mass of nuclei , enclosed in a faintly delicate , homogeneous , limitary membrane .
On the twenty-first day the thyroid is rather smaller than the spleen , and rather larger than the supra-renal glands .
It is of a reddish gray colour , and is surrounded by a complete fibrous capsule , which may be easily removed from its exterior .
It consists of a mass of vesicles , which vary in size ; they are chiefly circular , and their contents transparent .
They consist of an external , homogeneous and transparent membrane , forming a closed cavity , which contains a mass of nuclei .
In some cases , however , the vesicles , instead of being filled with nuclei , are lined with a layer of nucleated cells , and a cavity , although small , exists in their interior .
It may be seen , from the preceding observations , that the thyroid glands are developed in the form of two distinct separate masses of blastema , one at each side of the root of the neck , close to the point of separation of the carotid and subelavian vessels , and between the trachea and the bronchial clefts , but quite independent , as far as regards their evolution , of either of those parts .
Their minute structure also , at an early period of their development , closely corresponds both with the spleen and supra-renal glands ; and the tissues of which they are composed , at a later period , are formed in a manner precisely similar with the same parts in those organs , a fact which shows the analogy they bear to one another .
From the preceding observations , it will be seen that a close analogy exists between the glands already described ; and the propriety of their classification , together with the thymus , under one group , as the " Ductless Glands , " may be considered cleariv proved .
Now although most anatomists , excepting Mr. GoODSIR in this country , adopt such a classification , and place the spleen under the head of the " 'ductless glands , " many of our continental anatomists , among whom may be enumerated ECKER , in a very late and highly elaborate article , hasattempted to prove that this organ cannot , either anatomically or physiologically , be enumerated with them .
" For , " says ECKER , " though the vesicles of the spleen have a similar function with the glands of the blood-vessels , which is not improbable , these do not form the main element ot the spleen .
The function that I have explained to be particular to the spleen , takes place in the pulp , and in none of the glands of the blood-vessels are the characteristic elements of this found .
" That the spleen , however , may be classed with these glands is I think proved,1st .
From the manner of its evolution , which is precisely similar both to the suprarenal and thyroid glands .
2ndly .
From its structure , which at an early period almost exactly corresponds with that of the other glands in question ; and 3rdly .
From the development of its tissues following precisely the same law as that upon which the tissues both of the supra-renal and thyroid glands are formed .
It may be thought by some that I should have made this communication more perfect had I traced out the development of the highest of the ductless glands , the thymus .
The elaborate investigations , however , of Mr. SIMON upon this gland , have given all that can be desired upon this point , and the few observations I have myself made on the evolution of this organ in the chick accord so exactly with his statements , that I could add nothing but what was confirmatory of his observations .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XXI .
Fig. 1 .
Represents the rudimentary intestinal canal from the embryo of the chick at the seventy-second hour .
V. Vitelline sac .
I. Intestine .
L. Liver .
S. Stomach .
Fig. 2 .
Represents the anterior prolongation of the intestinal canal at the ninetieth hour , with the liver and pancreas arising as protrusions from that tube .
P. Pancreas .
Fig. 3 .
The same parts are represented as they are observed at the 114th hour .
The first trace of the spleen is here shown as a small oval body developed in a fold of the intestinal laminne , distinct from the pancreas .
Sp. Spleen .
Fig. 4 .
Represents the intestinal canal , pancreas and spleen from an embryo chick between the fifth and sixth days .
The spleen is now observed to have approximated close to the end of the pancreas .
Fig. 5 .
Represents the same parts from an embryo chick between the sixth and seventh days .
The pancreas with its duct are observed occupying the fold of the duodenum ; the spleen occupying its distal extremity .
Fig. 6 .
In this figure are represented the stomach , duodenum , pancreas and spleen from an embryo chick between the seventh and eighth days .
Fig. 7 .
The duodenal fold is here represented with the pancreas and its duct con .
tained in it .
The spleen is seen near to its distal end with blood-vessels ramifying in its substance ; no branches being derived from the vessel which runs along its inner side .
From a chick at the eighth day .
PLATE XXII .
Fig. 8 .
The Wolffian bodies , with the diminutive and elongated ovaries lying upon them , are represented as observed in an embryo chick on the fifth day .
W. Wolffian bodies .
0 .
Ovaries .
Fig. 9 .
The same parts are represented as they are observed on the seventh day , The supra-renal glands are observed lying at their upper and inner margins , one on each side of the aorta and above the ovaries .
S. Supra-renal glands .
Fig. 10 .
The same parts as observed on the tenth day .
The ovaries now approach nearer to the supra-renal glands ; the left one just overlapping the lower end of the corresponding gland .
Fig. I 1 .
In this figure are represented the kidneys , Wolffian bodies , ovaries and right supra-renal gland from an embryo chick at the fourteenth day .
The left supra-renal gland is covered over by the left ovary .
Fig. 12 .
The same parts as observed in the chick on the eighteenth day .
.u/ F ?
w~ .
MDCCCLII .
/ ?kZe .
XX .
6 W , ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ &lt; ~~~~~~~ it IFA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ # , or , ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i -Olt ~~~4 ~~~~~~ ~~~~ II K~ve"',4q i4 ezez~ ~~ ~~~I14PU(A~/ 4 ~ &amp; ~/ 4

