Secondary y-Rays produced by / 3-Rays .
131 changing its position with respect to the sides of the pipe , and the water which is flowing near the centre at one part approaches the sides as it moves through the pipe , and flowing near the sides it exerts a " scouring " action on the pipe walls , thus increasing the effectiveness of the pipe surface in transferring heat .
Secondary y-Rays produced By J. A. Gray , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar , University of Melbourne , ( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received February 4 , \#151 ; Read February 23 , 1911 .
) When the cathode rays of a vacuum tube impinge on any material they produce the X-rays , which are not deviated by a magnetic field , and are much more penetrating than the cathode rays which produce them .
We might , therefore , expect that when the / 3-rays from radioactive substances impinge on a plate , similar penetrating rays would be emitted from the-plate .
Such a penetrating type of rays , the 7-rays , is almost invariably associated with the / 3-rays , but it has generally been thought that these-7-rays are due to the expulsion of the / 8-ray from the radioactive atom .
In-some cases they are certainly not due to the impact of / 3-rays on external !
objects , the 7-rays of radium C being an instance of this .
Here the 7-rays come ; from the radioactive atoms , and in such amount that they effectually mask the possible production of 7-rays by / 3-rays as the experiments of H. Stark * show .
Stark attempted to find whether / 8-rays did produce 7-rays.f He used for this purpose 6 milligrammes of radium bromide contained in a very thin glass tube , which let most of the / 3-rays out .
The 7-rays from this ionised the air in an electroscope , the walls of which were thick enough to absorb all the / 8-rays .
He looked for an increase in the ionisation when various materials were placed just behind the radium .
He found practically no difference in the reading , and , from that and a similar experiment in which he deflected the / 3-rays away from the electroscope by a magnetic field , concluded that no measurable 7-radiation was caused by the ^-rays of radium C. * H. Stark , ' Le Radium , ' February , 1908 , p. 35 .
t In this paper a distinction is drawn between primary y-rays and secondary y-rays .
By primary y-rays are meant y-rays coming from the radioactive atom .
By secondary y-rays , y-rays produced by the impact of / 3-rays on external materials .
Mr. J. A. Gray .
[ Feb. 4 , His experiments show that , if 7-rays are produced , they form a very small proportion of those coming from the radioactive atom .
Subsequently Davisson* * * S used a different arrangement .
He utilised the property of a magnetic field , which turns the path of the / 3-rays into spirals around the lines of force , to direct the / 3-rays from some radium C on to a lead plate .
He found some slight but not very definite evidence of the formation of secondary 7-rays in the lead .
There are other substances , however , emitting / 3-rays , in which the emission of 7-rays is very weak compared with that observed in the case of radium C. Soddy and Russellf have shown that with specimens of uranium X and radium C of equal / 3-ray intensity , the 7-rays of uranium X are only about 2 per cent , of those from radium C. Again , Schmidt !
found that the 7-rays of radium E produce initially only 0'016 per cent , of the ionisation caused by the / 3- and 7-rays from radium E in an electroscope .
Meyer and SchweidlerS found a ratio 0033 per cent. , whereas in the case of the 7-rays of radium C the ratio is about 2 per cent. Substances like uranium X and radium E are therefore much better suited for an examination of the production of secondary 7-rays .
Especially is this the case with radium E , for the 7-rays , as well as being present in small quantity , are very easily absorbed by lead ( see fig. 4 referred to later , p. 138 ) .
The writer , during the course of some experiments on the 7-rays from radium E , has shown that 7-rays are produced by / 3-rays .
The material used was a very active preparation of radium D with its products , radium E and F , and was initially used in magnetic experiments on the velocity of the / 3-rays from radium E.|| It was provided by Prof. Rutherford , and had been separated from a large quantity of radium by Prof. Boltwood , preparatory to the determination of the rate of production of helium by radium by Rutherford and Boltwood.1T The radium D was mixed with lead , which had been added to the radium to ensure the complete separation of the radium D , so that 90 per cent , of the material consisted of lead sulphate .
For the magnetic experiments , it was placed in a groove in an aluminium plate , the groove being l-2 cm .
long , 04 mm. wide and deep .
A sheet of mica was placed over the material , which for safety was hermetically sealed .
Special care had been taken by Prof. Boltwood to * Davisson , ' Phys. Rev. , ' 1909 , vol. 28 , p. 469 .
t Soddy and Russell , ' Phil. Mag. , ' October , 1909 , p. 620 .
I H. W. Schmidt , 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' 1907 , vol. 8 , p. 361 .
S Meyer and Schweidler , ' Wien .
Ber .
, ' May , 1906 , vol. 115 , Abt .
ii a. || Gray , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1910 , vol. 84 , p. 136 .
IT Rutherford and Boltwood , ' Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc. , ' 1910 .
1911 .
] Secondary y-Rays produced by ( 3-Rays .
remove all traces of radium , and an examination of the 7-rays showed that there was practically none present .
The production of secondary 7-rays by yS-rays was shown in the following mannerThe aluminium plate , which was T25 mm. thick , 3 cm .
long , and 1 cm .
broad , was placed below the / 3-ray electroscope E ( fig. 1 ) , the active material facing downwards .
Between it and the electroscope was placed a sheet of iron FE 0'6 mm. thick , a thickness sufficient to cut off the / 3-rays of radium E. The radiator PB was placed directly below the active matter , and any radiation coming from it had to pass through the aluminium and iron plates before entering the electroscope .
Readings were taken with and without the radiator , the difference being a measure of the secondary radiation .
Using 0T35 mm. of lead as radiator , it was found that this difference was P25 divisions per minute , the respective readings being 5'65 and 4-40 .
An absorption experiment with iron sheets , 0'6 mm. thick , showed that this radiation was not due to penetrating / 3-rays , and the results are tabulated below:\#151 ; Table I. Absorber .
Reading ( no radiator ) .
Lead radiator .
Secondary radiation .
* One iron sheet 4*40 5-65 1-25 Two iron sheets 3*20 4-10 0-90 Three iron sheets 2-61 3-32 0*71 This table shows that the rays are of the same order of penetrating power as those coming from the active material .
They cannot be caused by the a-rays from radium F , and are in rather too large a quantity to be scattered 7-rays from the active material , so it was thought that they were caused by the impact of the / 3-rays .
The following experiment differentiated between the last two probable causes .
Sheets of paper were placed just below the active matter to cut off the / 8-rays from the lead radiator .
The secondary radiation was measured as before , and the results are given in the following table:\#151 ; Table II .
Absorber of / 3-rays .
Transmission of / 8-rays by paper .
Secondary radiation .
Per cent. 0 100 1 25 4 sheets of paper 54 0-75 12 sheets of paper 0*29 Mr. J. A. Gray .
[ Feb. 4 , The paper can absorb very little of the 7-rays , yet it is seen that when the intensity of the / 3-rays is cut down to 54 per cent. , the secondary radiation is reduced to 0'75 , or 60 per cent. Similarly , when the intensity is cut down to 18 per cent. , the secondary radiation is reduced to 23 per cent. Most of the penetrating radiation formed in the lead plate , therefore , is due to the / 3-rays , the amount due to the 7-rays from the active matter being very small .
A separate experiment , in which the yS-rays were cut off by graphite , gave the amount as 0T0 division per minute .
The / 3-rays thus form 7-rays in the lead plate which , passing through the aluminium and iron plates , give a reading of IT5 divisions per minute approximately .
The formation of secondary 7-rays in other materials has been examined Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
in a similar manner .
The results are given in the following table , and expressed in divisions per minute of the electroscope :\#151 ; Table III .
( -rraphibft 0 *20 Silver 0-55 Aluminium 0 *26 Gold 1 -19 Iron 0 *31 Lead 1 -25 No correction has been made for the scattered 7-radiation from the active material , which is about OTO division .
The numbers show that the secondary radiation from the " incident " side of a radiator increases with the atomic weight , being roughly proportional to it .
The relative effects would also depend on the penetrating power of the radiation from different 1911 .
] Secondary y-Rays produced by / 3-Rays .
135 materials .
It is probably softer the lower the atomic weight , but the effects are too small for accurate measurement .
The formation of these secondary 7-rays has been verified by other methods , in which the / 3-rays are turned away from the radiation by means of a magnetic field .
One arrangement used is shown in fig. 2 .
The electroscope E was placed above the poles of an electromagnet which gave a field perpendicular to the plane of the figure .
The bottom of the electroscope consisted of sufficient aluminium and cardboard to cut off the / 3-rays , the rest being of iron 1 mm. thick .
A lead radiator PB of section shown in the figure was placed below the active matter A and between the pole pieces , which were 10 cm .
apart .
The lead N absorbed most of the direct radiation from A. The cardboard LM prevented the / 3-rays striking the sides of the electroscope .
The pole pieces were covered by cardboard .
The following are the readings , M.F. referring to a magnetic field of 1000 Gauss:\#151 ; Table IY .
Disposition .
Reading .
( a ) Radium D uncovered , no radiator ( b ) " lead radiator ( c ) " " M.F. tending to turn / 8-rays to the left ( d ) With the M.F. in opposite direction ( e ) Radium D covered so as to cut off / 8-rays ( / ) " " M.F - 0-76 1 -12 0*77 0-98 0-76 0 *76 The difference between ( a ) and ( b gives the amount of 7-radiation entering the electroscope from the lead plate .
With 5 mm. of wood , as well as the cardboard , under the electroscope , this difference was 0*32 .
It is seen from ( c ) that , when a strong enough magnetic field is applied to turn the / 8-rays away from the lead plate , this penetrating radiation is not set up .
Readings ( e)and ( / ) show that the magnetic field in itself has no effect on the electroscope reading .
The experiment therefore confirms the result found by the other method .
The presence of 7-rays on the other side of a plate struck by / 3-rays , or emergent 7-rays as they may be called , was shown as follows:\#151 ; The bottom of the electroscope E ( fig. 3 ) consisted of 1 mm. of aluminium and 1*35 mm. of cardboard .
Directly below was the radiator R. The active matter was placed between the poles N , S , and 6 cm .
below R. Readings were taken with and without a magnetic field .
The magnetic field was of about 1000 Gauss .
The results are collected in Table Y. Mr. J. A. Gray .
[ Feb. 4 , Fig. 3 .
Table V. Eadiator .
Eeadings .
Secondary- radiation .
Without field .
With M.F. 1 Cardboard , 2 mm. thick 4-13 3'85 0-28 2 Aluminium , 1 mm. " 3-80 3-42 0'38 3 Iron , 0 *55 mm. " 2-20 1'84 0'36 4 Lead , 0 *12 mm. " 2 -70 1 -83 0'87 5 Lead , * 0 *12 mm. " 2-09 1 -37 0'72 6 Aluminium ( / 3-rays cut off ) 3 -12 3-12 7 Iron ( / 3-rays cut off ) 1-73 1 '73 * In this case an extra millimetre of aluminium was placed between the radiator and electroscope .
In ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) the same radiators were used as in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , but aluminium and cardboard were placed directly above the active material to cut off the / 3-rays .
These readings again show that the magnetic field in itself has no effect on the electroscope reading .
This table , therefore , shows the production of secondary 7-rays , the more being formed the greater the atomic weight of the radiator .
In comparing ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) allowance must be made for the greater absorption of the secondary radiation in the iron .
Experiments ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) show again that 1911 .
] Secondary y-Rays produced by fi-Rays .
137 the secondary 7-rays from lead have the same order of penetrating power as the 7-rays from the active material , being , if anything , harder .
That these rays are not deflected by a magnetic field was shown in the following manner .
The aluminium plate ( fig. 3 ) was reversed so that the active material was on the lower side .
Readings were taken with a lead radiator just under the active material , and are given below .
Table VI .
Disposition .
Eeading .
1 Lead radiator underneath 4-00 2 " magnetic field of 1000 G-auss applied ... 4-00 3 No radiator 3-17 The table shows that , when the radiator was present , there was no difference in the readings whether a magnetic field was applied or not , and thus , that the rays formed in the lead are not deflected by a magnetic field .
The figures for the secondary 7-radiation from lead show that the / 3-rays escaping from the active material produce 7-rays to the extent of 25 per cent , of the 7-rays coming from the active material used .
* The material with which the radium D is mixed is mainly lead sulphate .
As the material is in the form of a thick layer between 0'3 and 0-4 mm. thick , only a comparatively small percentage of the / 3-rays can escape .
There must , therefore , be a production of 7-rays in the material , mainly in the lead , comparable with that produced in a lead plate by the issuing / 3-rays .
These results indicate that the 7-rays ordinarily observed from a preparation of radium E may be largely , if not entirely , secondary in origin ; but before coming to a definite conclusion it will be necessary to examine the 7-radiation , if any , emitted from a thin film of radium E , spread on a very thin plate of low atomic weight .
Experiments in this direction are now being made .
It is also intended to continue experiments with uranium X and actinium in order to test how far the 7-rays produced may be secondary in origin .
It may be of interest to compare the relative / 3- and 7-radiations of radium E and uranium X. Correcting for absorption in the aluminium and iron plates , the incident 7-rays from the lead radiator PB ( fig. 1 ) would give a reading of about three divisions per minute .
The / 3-rays producing them give a reading of 7500 per minute , the initial ionisation , then , due to the 7-rays being one part in 2500 of that due to the / 3-rays producing them .
It has been stated above that Soddy and Russell found that the 7-rays from a specimen of uranium X were about 2 per cent , of the 7-rays from 138 Secondary y-Rays produced by / 3-Hays .
radium C , the intensity of the / 3-rays from the two substances being equal .
The 7-rays of radium C cause in an ordinary iron electroscope about 2 per cent , of the initial ionisation due to the / 3- and 7-rays , so that the initial ionisation due to the 7-rays from their preparation of uranium X would be about 0'04 per cent , of that due to the / 3-rays , or one part in 2500 .
This is the order one would expect from the secondary 7-rays produced by the / 3-rays in the platinum on which it had been placed .
The curves in fig. 4 show the results of some absorption experiments .
The activity has been plotted against the mass in grammes per unit area of MASS OF ABSORBER per SQ .
CM .
Fia .
4 .
the absorbing materials .
No correction has been made for the production of secondary 7-rays in the absorbing materials , but since more of these are formed in materials of higher atomic weight , this only serves to make the differences in the curves less marked ( see Table V ) .
The curves , therefore , show the much greater absorption of soft 7-rays by materials of high atomic weight than by materials of low atomic weight .
In this respect the 7-rays of radium E are similar to X-rays .
The results of the experiments on the secondary 7-rays are summarised below:\#151 ; On the Measurement of Specif cInductive Capacity .
139 1 .
7-rays are produced by the / 3-rays of radium E in different materials , the greater in amount the greater the atomic weight of the material .
2 .
The 7-rays of radium E may be .
entirely secondary in nature .
At all events , the 7-radiation can be greatly increased by a suitable disposition of the material and apparatus .
In conclusion , the writer wishes to express his best thanks to Prof. Butherford for his kind interest in and advice during these experiments , and also to Prof. Boltwood for the preparation of the material employed .
On the Measurement of Specific Inductive Capacity .
By Charles Niven , F.E.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy , University of Aberdeen .
( Eeceived February 9 , \#151 ; Eead February 23 , 1911 .
) 1 .
The discrepancy between Maxwell 's theory of refraction and the values of the specific inductive capacities of some of the commoner liquids is well known , and the idea which naturally suggests itself is that the first values deduced for these capacities were obtained by using slowly alternating electric forces , and that if the period of alternation were greatly increased , a closer approximation to the values required by Maxwell 's theory might be gained .
Among other methods employed is one by Thwing , founded on the principle of resonance , in which the period of the oscillations set up in a discharging circuit , which may be called the primary , is gradually altered till it agrees with the period of another fixed circuit , here called the secondary , in inductive connection with it .
When the two periods are the same , it is assumed that the value of CL is the same for both , C being the capacity of one system and L the inductance of the circuit connected with it .
If we reverse Thwing 's arrangement we may suppose the primary circuit fixed and modify the secondary till resonance is got .
The measurements to be subsequently recorded were obtained in this way , using Fleming 's cymometer as the adjustable resonator .
In this way alternations were used whose frequency was comparable with a million per second , but the cymometer was only used to give comparative readings , the capacity of a

