]\gt ; Angular Measurement of Optic Axial Emerge June 18 , ) ?
tinued .
VI .
" " Experimental Proof of va n't Hoff 's Constant , Dalton 's Law : \amp ; c. , in very dilute Solutions By Dr. MEYElt N. Communicated by ofessor FTZGERALD , F.R.S. VII .
" " On the Determinabion of the Wave-length of E'lectric Radiation by Diflraction Gratings By J. C. E. Communicated by YLEIGH , Sec. R.S. VIII .
/ The ffecbs of a strong Magnetic Field upon Electric Dischal'ges in Yacuo By A. A. C. INTOIN .
Communicated by LoliD KELVIN , F.R.S. IX .
" " the Structure of Mebals , its Origin and Changes By M. F. OSNOND and , F.R.S. X. " " llagnetisation of Liquids By JOHN S. ) .
Communicated by Professor J. J. , F.R.S. XI .
Selective Absorption of Rays By J. A. McCLELLAND .
Communicated by Professor J. J. F.R.S. XII .
" " On the Determination of Freezing Points By J. A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor , F.R.S. XIII .
" " The lfenstruation and Ovulation of Macacus rhesns ; with Observations on the Changes undergone by the discharged .
Part Il By YVAL ER HEAPf Communicated by Dr. M. FOSTEI : , Sec. R.S. XIV .
" " Phenomena resulting from Interruption of Afferent and Efferent Tracts of the Cerebellum By Dr. J. S. RISIEN RUSSELL .
Communicated by Professor HoRSLEY , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Vacation to sday , November 19 .
" " Angular lIeasurement of Optic mergences.\ldquo ; By VILLIAlI JACKSON POPE .
Communicated by Professor AP .
, F.R.S. Received February 7 , \mdash ; Read March .
Crystals to the monoclinic or anorthic systems are rely obtained in which the optical orientation is such that a large crystal face is so nearly perpendicular to a bisectrix that the apparent optic axial angle as observed air can be directly measured by means of the ordinary Fuess apparatus .
It thus becomes .
W. J. Pope .
necessary to first grind plates of known orientation for optical examination ; this latler operation is by no means easily performed , especially in the case of brittle anic substances .
Very usually , however , crystals belonging to the biaxial systems are obtained in which an optic axis apparently emerges into air through a particular face ; in these cases the accurate measnrement of the angle bebweell the apparent direction in air of the optic axis and the normal to the crystal plate becomes an important element in the tion of the optical constants of the crystal .
The ordinary method of determining this angle is a direc one ; the crystal is adjusted in the optic axial angle apparatus and a reading is taken for the ) emergence , after the position of the normal to plate has been found by reflecting a beam of light down the telescope tnbe and the crystal until the shadow and reflected image of the crosswires coincide ; the angular difference between the two readings is then the required ent angle of emergence air .
This method of finding the position of the normal is , , very tedious , and , unless the crystal plate possesses a highly polished surface , very inaccurate .
To remedy these defects a method has been devised of indirectly determining this angle by ting it from the angle which the optic axis is apparently acted by an oil of high refractive index .
The crystal is mounted and adjusted in the optic axial angle apparatus in the ordinary way , and a reading is taken for the optic axial emergencs in air ; a parallel-sided glass cell containing -bromonaphthalene or some other refractive liquid is then raised until it surrounds the crystal , and a second reading is taken of the apparent emergence of optic axis .
From the difference between these two angular readings the angle of emergence into air can be calcnlated , if the index of refraction of the oil is known .
Angular Jfeasurement of Optic Axial Emergences .
9 In the figure , OA is an optic axial direction in crystal , OB is the direction of optic axial emergence into air , and OC is the direction of emergence into a liquid of refiactive index ; ON is the ltormal to the crystal plate .
Then , the angle of ence into air , is NOB , whilst , the angle of emergence into the liquid is NOC and ; it is equired to calculate the , from the observed value of Then , since and ( 1 ) , since ' whence tall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) form nor convenient than ( 1 ) for logarithmic tion .
To the accuracy of the method , measul.ements have been on biaxial plates of diiferent properties , liquids of various rective indices used .
iudex ofefraction of the liquid nlployed is conveniently mined with the frich ractometer ; the refraction is so affected by differe11ces of and of that it is necessary to determine it for the liquid as actually used ; the liquid does not lleed to be seciaJl .
The ments given in the two appended tables were made 011 plates of topaz , each of them cut perpendicularly to the acute bisectrix .
By measurement of the optic axial angles , the apparent emergences into air soditlm light were found to be and , l'espcctively .
These two sets of measurements suffice to that the metl1od possesses very considerable accuracy , although the ) lues of measured are not very ; the numbers also seem to indicnte Prof. G. Lippmann .
On Cotour TABLE I.\mdash ; Plate with angle of emergence in air TABLE II.\mdash ; PIate with angle of emergence in air that , as Id of course be expected , the most accurate results are obtained with liquids of hi refractive index , which give comlarge values of .
By determining the values of for each of two optic axes of a given plate , ib can easily be ascertained with what amount of accuracy the plate has been cut perpendicularly to the bisectrix .
The principle of the method here descl.ibed may very possibly be advantageously employed in other branches of optical investigation .
" " On Colom Photography by the Interferential Method By G. LIPPMANN , Professor of Physics , Faculty of Sciences , Paris .
Communicated by Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , P.B.S. Received April 14 , \mdash ; Read Apri123 , 1896 .
Colour photographs of the spectrum , or of any other object , are obtained by the following method .
A transparent photographic film of any kind has to be placed in contact with a metallic mirror during

