[ 777 ] XVI .
Description of portions of a Tush of a Proboscidian .
( Notelephas* australis , Owen .
) By Professor ' Owen , , F.B.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 21 , \#151 ; Read March 30 , 1882 , [ Plate 51 .
] The subjects of the present communication were discovered by the late Fred .
N. Isaac , Esq. , in a superficial drift-deposit of a ravine in a district of Darling Downs , Australia , about 60 miles to the eastward of More ton Bay , and have been submitted to me by his nephew , E. Thurston Holland , Esq. They are portions of a tusk and indicate a species of Mammal larger than the Diprotodon , consequently the largest aboriginal land Mammal of which any satisfactory evidence has , hitherto , reached me from Australia .
Besides the larger portions of the tusk figured in the accompanying drawing ( Plate 51 , figs. 1\#151 ; 8 ) were many smaller portions or fragments of apparently the same tusk .
At first sight they suggested evidence confirmatory of that which , in 1843 , was brought from Australia by Count Stezelecki , \#151 ; a molar , viz. , of a Mastodon , stated to have been obtained from a native of the interior of New South Wales , but which appeared to lack the grounds for the admission of a Proboscidian into the work ' On the Fossil Mammals of Australia/ up to the date of its publication , 1877 .
That molar presented the characters of the Mastodon andium of South America , and it is too large to be associated with the tusk under description , supposing this to have come from the upper jaw of a full-grown individual of its species .
I , however , subjoin the Count 's notice of the molar tooth.t # Notos south , e\e(f)oc$ ivory .
t After alluding to some Marsupial Fossils I also had submitted to me , the author proceeds :\#151 ; u To these relics may be added a molar c bone * ( tooth ) of the Mastodon , similar to the Mastodon angustidens , and provisionally called by Professor Owen Mastodon australis , and which I bought from a native of Boree , the station of Captain Ryan , through the agency of the overseer of the station .
The natives in giving the bone stated that similar ones and larger still might be got further in the interior ; but that , owing to the hostility of the tribe upon whose grounds the bones are to be found , it was impossible for him to venture in that time in search for more ; as , however , he promised to exert himself at some future period in order to supply me with some better specimens , I have left a reward with the man second in command at the station , and which was to be given to the native on his redeeming his pledge .
Should 5 a 2 The largest of the portions of the tusk ( Plate 51 , figs. 1-4 ) is from near the base , and includes part of the pulp-cavity , p. It is 5 inches in length , of a full elliptical , almost circular shape transversely ; measuring across at the larger end ( fig. 3 ) , 2 inches 6 lines by 2 inches 5 lines ; at the smaller end ( fig. 4 ) , 2 inches by 1 inch 10 lines .
The diameters of the pulp-cavity are , at the larger end , 1 inch 1 line by 1 inch ; at the smaller end , 6 lines by 5 lines .
The thickness of the wall of ivory , at the larger end , varies from 8 to 9 lines , and is the same at the smaller end , not decreasing in the ratio of the pulp-cavity .
In this portion of tusk the outer or cemental layer arid much of the outermost layer of dentine are lost .
In the smaller portions of the tusk , where the cemental layer is preserved , it has a smooth outer surface ; that of the dentine which is exposed shows the shallow longitudinal linear impressions which may be seen in that part of the tusk of most Elephants recent and fossil .
The transversely fractured surfaces present the decussating curvilinear lines characteristic of true or Proboscidian ivory ; but they are more minute than in the tusks of the African or Indian Elephants .
The dentine has , also , the compactness of ivory , and reveals the microscopic characters presently to be described .
The longitudinal linear impressions on the outer layer of dentine are of varying , but nowhere of great depth , mostly alternating in this character .
The deeper lines run along with interspaces of from \#163 ; to ^ an inch , and such defined longitudinal tracts are commonly impressed by a fainter line running along or near their middle .
A tract bounded by the deeper lines , half an inch in breadth , shows two of the shallower longitudinal impressions .
The general surface is smooth and polished ; the inner surface , toward the pulp-cavity , is smooth .
The present portion of tusk shows a slight departure from straightness ; a degree of curvature is more evident in the second , rather narrower but longer , portion ( ib. , figs. 5 , 6 ) .
This portion is 6-| inches in length , 2 inches 1 line by 2 inches in thickness at the largest end , 1 inch 10 lines by 1 inch 9 lines at the smaller end ( ib. , fig. 6 ) .
The inner layers of the dentine at the larger end have been too much and irregularly broken away to indicate satisfactorily the size and termination there of the pulp cavity ; but three inches in advance the tusk is solid , and the same absence of pulp-cavity is shown at the smaller end , where the final consolidation is indicated by a dark spot .
On the surface of this portion of tusk , where the cement is wanting , the longitudinal lineation of the outer layer of dentine has become fainter .
The third portion ( ib. , figs. 7 , 8 ) is from near the apical extremity of the tusk ; it is solid and the outer layers of dentine , coated by the smooth cement , are partially future enterprise lead travellers to that quarter , it will be deserving their while to push the enquiry further and add more evidence regarding the existence of the Mastodontoid animals of New Holland .
" \#151 ; ' Physical Description of New South Wales and Yan Dieman 's Land , ' 8vo .
, London , 1845 , p. 312 .
Subsequent unintermitting correspondence in relation to discovery and acquisition of Australian fossil remains have failed to bring to my notice any evidence of a Proboscidian Mammal before the reception of the subjects of the present communication .
A TUSK OF A PROBOSCIDIAN MAMMAL .
preserved .
At the larger end ( ib. , fig. 8 ) the diameters are 1 inch 4 lines and 1 inch 1 line ; at the smaller end they are 9 lines and 6 lines ; but here a line 's breadth should be added to both admeasurements , through lack of the outer layers of ivory with its thin coating of smooth cement .
Besides the three portions of tusk above described many fragments remained after the adjustment of the pieces forming the parts of the tusk figured in Plate 51 .
I estimate the length of the part of the tusk collected by Mr. Isaac and transmitted to me at 16 inches ; adding the portion wanted to connect the part fig. 5 , with the part fig. 7 , about 2 feet in length of the tusk would be represented .
The size of the pulp-cavity in figs. 1-3 indicates the portion so figured to have come from near the exit of the tusk from its socket .
Of some of the detached fragments microscopical sections have been made .
These sections of dentinal ( Plate 51 , figs , 9 , 10 ) and cemental ( ib. , fig. 11 ) portions of the tusk demonstrate the characteristic structures of these tissues , which have been described by Retzius'* and myself.f The dentinal tubes present , at a little distance from the pulp-cavity , the characteristic minute size\#151 ; g-gro^th of an inch in diameter ; and soon , as they recede toward the cement , show the peculiar , strong undulatory course ( fig. 9 ) answering to the easier " secondary curves " of those tubes in the dentine of most other kinds of Mammalian teeth .
The degree of curvature in the ivory of the present extinct Proboscidian is even greater in the section of the fossil ivory here figured ( fig. 9 ) than in the section of recent ivory of the Indian Elephant , the subject of plate 149 , d , in the ' Odontography .
In the section of dentine shown by the higher power ( fig. 10 ) , are seen the strata of extremely minute opaque cells , unusually numerous in ivory , in the interspaces of the tubes .
The cemental part of the fossil repeats the elephantine characters : the radiated cells ( fig. 11 ) are larger , averaging -^x^th of an inch in diameter , and are more uniform in size and shape than in most other Mammalian teeth ; they also show , in transverse section , the circular figure characteristic of Proboscidian incisors .
S Fractured portions of a single tooth may seem to be a slender basis for predicating of a wider geographical distribution of the Proboscidian order than has , hitherto , been assigned to it .
And , moreover , if the rest of the elephantine structures should be conformable , as I presume they would be , we here have , supposing the Dingo to be a human introduction into the Australian continent , a gyrencephalous exception to the characteristic aboriginal Mammalian organisation of that remote southern continent .
I am encouraged , however , to submit the present evidence to the Society , by the successive * * * S * Mikroskopiska Undersokningar ofver Jadernes sardeles Tandbenets struktur .
Stockholm , 1837 .
t * Odontography , ' 4to .
, 1840-45 .
% Ibid. S Ibid. , p. 641 .
confirmations of the previously hugest known extinct Marsupial , ultimately establishing the ordinal , generic , and specific characters of australis , of which the primal indication was but a portion of a tusk.-* This tusk , however , was evidently one of a pair which had issued in an almost horizontal direction from the symphysis of the lower jaw : and both incisors had been partially coated with true enamel .
Such indication bespoke a species akin to the still existing pouched quadrupeds of Australia , represented by the Wombats and Kangaroos .
The initial fossil , large as it seemed , proved afterwards to be part of an immature individual .
It was obtained , as is well known , from a cavern , which had been haunted by the largest known marsupial Carnivore ( and the relations to the locality and companion fossils recalled those of the remains of Elephants and Rhinoceroses which have been a prey to spelaean Lions haunting the caves in our own island .
And here I may remark that the cave in Wellington Valley , originally discovered and explored by Major Sir Thomas Mitchell , F.G.S. , has since , by the enlightened liberality of the Government of New South Wales , been subjected to a more searching exploration by the accomplished naturalist and curator of the Museum of Natural History at Sydney , Ed. P. Ramsay , F.L.S. Among the additional evidences of the Thylacoleo\#151 ; the only carnivore to which could be referred the introduction of immature Diprotodons whose remains showed indications that they had fallen a prey\#151 ; was a portion of the cranium with the articular cavity for the lower jaw .
This , instead of the shallow undulatory surface of the vegetarian Marsupials , showed the deep transversely extended groove for the reception of the transversely extended lore-and-aft convexity of the mandibular condyle : the joint thus conforming , as in the Felines , with the carnassial character of the dentition of Thylacoleo .
As , year by year , further evidences arrived contributing to the restoration of Diprotodon , it may be hoped that similar materials for the reconstruction of Notelephas australis may reach this country .
* Appendix to ' Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Australia , ' by Sir Thomas Mitchell , F.G.S. , Surveyor-General of Australia ; vol. ii .
, 8vo .
, 1838 , plate 81 , fig. 1 .
A TUSK OF A PROBOSCIDIAN MAMMAL .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE 51 .
Notelephas australis .
Fig. 1 .
Side view of the basal part of the tusk .
Fig. 2 .
Ib .
of the opposite side of ditto .
Fig. 3 .
Transversely fractured surface of the basal end of ditto .
Fig. 4 .
Ib .
of the opposite end of ditto .
Fig. 5 .
Side view of the succeeding portion of the tusk .
Fig , 6 .
Transversely fractured end view of ditto .
Fig. 7 .
Side view of a terminal portion of the tusk .
Fig. 8 .
Transversely fractured surface of the basal end of ditto .
Fig. 9 .
Longitudinal section of dentine , magnified 5 0 diameters .
Fig. 10 .
Ib .
ib. , magnified 8 diameters .
Fig. 11 .
Transverse section of cement , magnified 90 diameters .
Figs. 1-8 are of the natural size .
rrm .
Ivans .
I $ XL .
Plata .
.4* .
Fig.9 .
Fig .10 .
If .
, _ %

