116 Dr. It .
C. Shettle on the [ Dec. 10 , point which it possesses .
I do not remember any other substance of a high boiling-point which occupies at thei boiling-point a volume which is one half as large again as the volume at the ordinary temperature .
In the accompanying figure ( p. 115 ) I have introduced , side by side with the paraffine curve , the expansion curves of mercury , iodide of silver , and terbromide of phosphorus , one of the most expansible liquids known , if we except such bodies as ether , bromide of ethyl , acetate of methyl , \amp ; c. , the boiling-point of which is below 100 ' C. , and which , therefore , could not easily be introduced into the figure for comparison with a body which boils at nearly 400 ' C. V. ee Experiments showing the Paramagnetic condition of Arterial Blood , as compared with the Diamagnetic condition of Venous Blood .
" By Richard C. Shet^le , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Lockhart Clarke , F.R.S. Received October 20,1874 .
The magnetic condition of all matter has been well ascertained , and the fact that the same matter may exhibit different magnetic phenomena according to the medium in which it is placed is a point of considerable importance when testing for such results .
It is therefore absolutely essential that any experiments which have for their object the demonstration of paramagnetic force of low power should be tested in media of known strength* In the experiments I have now the honour of laying before the Royal Society , the relative condition which bodies bear to each other as regards their magnetic properties has been strictly observed .
The experiments consist in suspending between the poles of a powerful electromagnet arterial blood hermetically sealed in a glass tube in a medium of venous blood , and venous blood in the same tube , previously well emptied of its contents , in a medium of arterial blood , care being taken to avoid as far as possible any exposure of the blood to the atmosphere , thus preventing any alteration in its physical characteristics as regards the gases which it contains .
The necessary apparatus consists of some G-erman glass tubes in which the fluid to be tested is hermetically sealed , a thin glass vessel for holding the medium in which the testing-tube is suspended , two glass bottles for defibrinating the blood , two store glass bottles for receiving the blood after it has been defibrinated , oxygen gas , carbonic acid gas , very thin india rubber , and an electromagnet and battery of 15 Grove 's cells ; The testing-tube ( fig. 1 ) was made of very thin German glass , and the one used for these experiments was of the size and shape shown ; It was filled by means of the two short tubes on the upper surface , and when filled was carefully tied over with very thin india rubber ; it was suspended by silk in the ordinary way .
1874 .
] Magnetic Conditions of the Blood .
117 The thin glass vessel for holding the medium in which the testing-tube was suspended consisted of an ordinary beaker ( fig. 2 ) of sufficient Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
internal capacity to allow of the testing-tube rotating freely , without risk of touching the sides .
The mouth of this vessel was closed with a cork ( fig. 3 ) , the cork being pierced with two glass tubes , to which were Fig. 3 .
attached pieces of india-rubber tubing , capable of being closed when required by means of strong brass clips .
This cork was also pierced in its centre by a small copper wire , bent into a crook at its lower end , to which the testing-tube was suspended .
The wire was sufficiently long to permit of the testing-tube being raised or lowered as necessary for adjusting the ends to the level of the poles of the magnet .
The bottles used for defibrinating ( fig. 4 ) were wide-mouthed , and capable of holding two pints each ; they were well corked , and the corks were pierced with two glass tubes with india-rubber tubing attached , similar to the cork shown in fig. 3 .
Brass clips were also supplied .
h Into the under surface of these corks were driven four strips of wood sufficiently long to reach to the bottom of the bottle , and these acted as excellent defibrinating rods .
Dr. R. G. Shettle on the [ Dec. 10 , The store bottles ( fig. 5 ) were narrow-mouthed , capable of holding a pint ; they were closed with a cork with one glass tube , fitted with indiarubber tubing and clip as the others .
Near the bottom of these bottles was another opening , to which a similar cork with tubing and clip was One of these defibrinating bottles and one of the store bottles were filled with oxygen gas , the other defibrinating bottle and the other store bottle with carbonic acid gas ; this was done to prevent the blood when drawn from the vessels ( artery and vein ) being exposed to the atmosphere .
The apparatus being thus prepared , blood was allowed to flow through a glass tube ( one end of which was tied into the vein , the other into the india-rubber tube ) from the jugular vein of a sheep into the defibrinating bottle filled with carbonic acid gas ; both clips having been removed from the india-rubber tubes , the gas flowed out of one tube as the blood entered at the other : during this process , and until defibrination had taken place , the bottle was rotated upon its axis , the clips being re-applied as soon as sufficient blood had been taken .
The vein was then properly tied and the carotid artery opened ; a similar glass tube was inserted , and blood drawn from it into the defibrinating bottle filled with oxygen gas ; the process of defibrination was then performed , as in the case of the venous blood , and the clips again applied .
The liquor sanguinis containing the corpuscles was then drawn off through similar tubes into the store bottles and was ready for testing .
^*e testing-tube ( fig. 1 ) was readily filled from these store bottles by inserting one of the short tubes ( marked a ) into the india-rubber tubing Fig. 4 .
Dig. 5 .
fitted .
1874 .
] Magnetic Conditions of the Blood .
attached to the bottom of one of the store bottles , and then removing the clips , which were replaced as soon as the tube ( fig. 1 ) was thoroughly filled : the open tube ( 6 ) was then speedily tied over with the thin india rubber ; the india-rubber tubing connecting it with the store bottle was then carefully removed , and the aperture ( a ) tied over in the same manner ; the tube was then carefully wiped and attached by the suspending silk to the crook of the adjusting-wire .
The tube ( fig. 1 ) was first filled with arterial blood , and the vessel ( fig. 2 ) having been filled with carbonic acid gas and placed between the poles of the passive electromagnet , the cork with testing-tube attached , filled as above described , was properly inserted ; by means of the adjusting-wire ( fig. 3 ) the points of the tube were made level with the points of the magnetic poles ; battery contact was then made , and the tube ( fig. 1 ) took up a diagonal position , pointing north-east by east and south-west by west .
The tube connected with the bottom of the store bottle containing venous blood was now connected with one of the glass tubes of the vessel ( fig. 2 ) ; and the clips being again removed , sufficient venous blood was allowed to run into it to cover the tube ( fig. 1 ) , with the exception of the two apertures covered with india rubber , as these marked the position of the tube when immersed in the blood .
The tube immediately assumed the direct axial line , then slowly made a half turn and took the axial position again , the ends of the tube being directed to the poles of the magnet , the reverse of that they had first assumed .
Experiment No. 2 .
The suspending-tube was now removed and thoroughly emptied of its contents .
It was then filled with venous blood in the manner described in Experiment No. 1 , and suspended as before , with the exception that the vessel ( fig. 2 ) was this time filled with atmospheric air instead of carbonic acid gas ; the tube was then levelled and tested by battery contact being made as in No. 1 , and found to occupy an equatorial position .
Arterial blood was then allowed to flow into fig. 2 from the store bottle in the same manner as described in Experiment No. 1 ; the slight oscillations which had previously existed immediately ceased , and the vessel ( fig. 1 ) came to rest in the equatorial line .
Observations .
For the proper performance of these experiments special attention should be given , 1st , to the proper coagulation and removal of the fibrin ; 2nd , to the preparation of the blood without contact with the atmosphere ; 3rd , to the employment of sufficient battery force , not less than 15 Grove 's cells .
1st .
It is very necessary that the fibrin be properly removed , for the liquor sanguinis and corpuscles constitute together a medium of conOn the Multiplication of Definite Integrals .
[ Dec. 10 , siderable density , in which the testing-tube has to rotate| and in calculating the degree of force which exists in the blood , as shown by the rapidity of the movements of the tube under the influence of the magnet , allowance must be made for the resistance from this source that has to be overcome : consequently any fibrin that has not been removed must , in the same degree in which it increases the viscidity and density of the fluid , increase the resistance to the movements of the tube , and so interfere with the manifestation of results .
2nd .
By preserving the blood from contact with the atmosphere any change in its physical character from such source is prevented .
3rd .
And for the reason that the paramagnetic force in arterial blood must depend upon the amount of oxygen it contains , and the diamagnetic force in venous blood upon carbonic acid , it is evident that the force in the testing-tube as opposed to the force in the suspending medium must be very little , whilst the mechanical resistance afforded by such medium must be considerable .
It is therefore essential that the battery-force should be of sufficient power to develop these forces to the greatest possible extent .
.Since writing the foregoing paper , in repeating the experiments , it has been found that , for the due performance of them , the blood should be maintained as nearly as possible at its natural temperature .
To effect this the shape of the vessel ( No. 2 ) has been altered , and it is immersed in a water-bath , the heat of which is sustained by a spirit-lamp , its temperature , and also that of the blood , being regulated by thermometers placed in each vessel .
YI .
" On the Multiplication of Definite Integrals .
" By W. H. L. Bussell , F.B.S. Beceived October 28 , 1874 .
as the integral I P dx die extended over an area bounded by the straight Now conceive the axes transformed through an angle of 45 ' , so that Addendum .
The definite integral 1P dxdy may be considered geometrically lines whose equations are x\#151 ; y\#187 ; a ?
=2/ 0\gt ; y=xv o-

