A Description of the solvent Glands and Gizzards of the Ardea Argala , the Casuarius Emu , and the long-legged Cassowaryfrom New South Wales .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.R.S. Read December 17 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 77 .
] In the first of these birds the solvent glands are different from those of any other bird examined by the author , each gland being made up of five or six cells , that open into one common excretory duct ; but its gizzard is very similar to that of the crow .
In the Emu the solvent glands are oval bags , one fourth of an inch in length , and one sixteenth wide .
The gizzard differs from that of the crow in having a thicker lining , and is remarkable solely for its situation ; for it is not placed , as usual , between the stomach and the duodenum , but forms a pouch on one side , so that food can pass onwards direct into the duodenum , without being received into the gizzard .
In the Cassowary of New South Wales , the solvent glands are similar to those of the emu , but larger ; and the gizzard is also similar in every respect , but stronger .
The author further remarks upon the circumstances in the structure of the cassowaries , and other birds most nearly allied to them , which adapt them to the different degrees of fertility of the countries they inhabit .
The Emu of Java , where there is abundance of food , has intestines that are of large diameter , and comparatively short , so as to afford free passage to the superfluity of food they take , and a gizzard to be employed only occasionally .
The Cassowary of New South Wales has intestines of smaller diameter , thirteen feet long ; and a stronger gizzard , more frequently employed in a less productive country .
2 o The Rhea Americana , with intestines equally long , has a gizzard so placed , that no part of the food can escape trituration .
And lastly , the Ostrich of Africa , where its means of subsistence are most precarious , has a gizzard extremely strong , and intestines seventy feet in length .

