]\gt ; Comparison of the of -Standard the Ayrton-Joncs an pendix on the Electromotire Forces of Cells .
By T. MATHEB , , Central Technical College , London , and F. E. IITH , , National Physical Laboratory , Received Iarch Read March When the Board of Trade ampere balance was set up and verified in 1894 , the platinum veight ( marked A ) used with the instrument was adjusted so that a current which deposited silver from a 15-per-cent .
solution of silver nitrate at the rate of rammes per second produced , on reversal , a of force equal to the weight of A. At thab period such a current was believed to represent of a C.G.S. unit , with a fair degree of accuracy .
last few years a new rent w at the Central Technical College , been constructed at the National Physical with a precision preyiously not obtained in any instrument for the absolute determination of current strength , and by means of it the electrochemical equivalent of silver has been determined to a very high of acculacy .
We therefore considered it of lnterest to determine the difference between the units of current as measured by the two balttllces , and at the same time ascertain how nearly the ampere , measured by the Board of balance , deposits silver at the rate of ] milligrammes The comparison of the two ) alances was carlie out by of cells and resistances used as secondary standards of CUl'rent ; for , if a current be passed through a resistance , and the of adjusted until the potential difference between the ternlinals of the is equal to the } .
of a standard cell , , when the cell coil firt1 , iven temperaturcs , a ) crfcctly drent must bc coil .
If this current be ined in absolute ] of current such described paper previously mention " " A New Current Weigher and a Determination of the of the Normal ) ' by rofeRbor W. L. ton , , T. ; F. F. E. Smith , , Phil. , vol. ) , pp. " " The Silver ] , by .
E. mith , , T. Islatber , T. M. Lowry , D. Phil. Trans , .
We may here rema1k tl1at the official of accuracy plied to the } of current ( not to the instrument ) is one-tenth part of 1 per cent. Council , 1894 .
Messrs. T. Mather and F. E. Smith .
[ Mar. 10 , combination of cell and coil is standardised , and can be used subsequently as a secondary standard of current .
Knowing the relations between E.M.F. and temperature for the cell , and between resistance and temperatme for the coil , the current required to produce equality of P.D. and E.M.F. at any given temperatures can be found .
The combination of cell and resistance can , therefore , be used as a secondary standard of current , at temperatures other than those at which they were standardised .
A set of cadmium cells set up at the National Physical Laboratory was connected in parallel and used as one cell in the measurements , a sixth cell in the same oil bath being employed in making the preliminary adjustments of current principal resistance coil used in the tests was a 1-ohm standard , marked L. 87 , which was employed in the determination of the E.M.F. of the Normal Weston Cadmium Cell .
other coils , each ohm ( nominal ) , were also made use of in some of the comparisons .
All three coils have potential terminals .
The resistances were measured to a high of accuracy at the National Physical Laboratory ; their values in international ohms , and those of their current leads and copper blocks with mercury cups for connecting the coils in series , are given in Table I. Table alues of Resistances employed ( International Ohms at Coil No. L. 87 ( between potential terminals ) CulTent leads of L. half blocks ( mcrcury cups ) One current lead of No. half block ( mercury cups ) , Sum of the above coefficient C. ) of coil L. No. 2200 No. 2492 After standardising the combination of cells and resistance by means of the Ayrton-Jones current weigher at Bushy , they were taken by hand to the Board of Trade Laboratory at Whitehall , and set up in a circuit the Board of Trade balance .
Previous to making any measurements the insulation of the apparatus from earth , and that between the stranded wires connecting the loalances and resistances , were tested , and found to be qnite satisfactory .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 207 , p. 520 .
1908 .
] Board of Ampere-Standard , etc. Two methods of comparison were made use of .
In one of these , represented by fig. 1 , a current about amperes ) sufficient a P.I ) .
between the end indicates the Board of Trade , A the auxiliary Kelvin balance used ustable carbon ebistnnces , I iron wire ballast resistances , a of 64 accumulators , a standard 1-ohm resistance coil L. 87 , a set of 5 cadmium cells in parallel , an auxiliary cell , for connecting either or in circuit , a and a key , and are the potential terminals of of the -ohnl coil , L. , equal to the E.M.F. of the cadmium cell , passed through the circuit .
Additional weights , calculated approximately from the known value of this current , and the mass of the platinum-iridium weight , used with the balance , were added to the standard eights , so that the suspended coil would come near the sighted position when the correct current was flowing .
The current was then adjusted so as to exact balance on the galvanometer , fig. 1 , and the rest-point of the balance dete1mined by the vibration method .
The current through fixed coils of the balance was then reversed , ljusted , and the rest-point of the balance determined .
From the two rest-points thus found , the known sensibility of the instrument , the mass required to balance the of force on reversal was calculated .
square root of th .
ratio the value of the current in Board of Trade amperes .
In the other method of } ) al'ison the Board of ance was used in the normal way , without any additional , the current adjusted to 1 Board of Trade ampere approximately , as in ordinary velification tests .
This currexlb passed the resistances arl.anged as shown in resistance the * The value used in ) the combination of cells and The masses of weights were determined to a ordel of accuracy by the Office of Standard Weights and Measures , tender ou .
best Messrs. T. Mather and F. E. Smith .
[ Mar. 10 , terminals of , was adjusted until the P.D. between the points and equalled the E.M.F. of the standard cell S. When this condition exists , the FIG. 2 .
The letters have the same meaning as in .
In addition , and are the outer potential of two coils , and , of ohm each , and indicates a box of manganin resistance coils shunting current hrough the circuit , in terms of the Ayrton-Jones balance , is given by the formula , which , since , very nearly , may be written , where is the known E.M.F. of the cell , and the resistance of the three coils and the contact blocks and current leads included between the points and J. To obtain checks on the constancy of the cells and coils the combination was standardised by the Ayrton-Jones balance at Bushy on each of the three , January 6 , , and 8 , on which comparisons were made at Whitehall ; this procedure , in effect , made it unnecessary to know either .
or resistance in absolute measure , as the ratio only is required , and this was determined directly by the current weigher .
The results of the tests are iven in Table II .
From this it will be seen that the currents , as measul.ed by the Board of Trade balance , are approximately per cent. than their values in terms of the Ayrton-Jones balance .
The Board of Trade is about 1/ 30 ccnt .
smaller of the of as rton-Jo/ xes weigher .
A difference of this order of nitude was anticipated authors , for the new determination of the electrochemical equivalent of silver , previously refe1red t gives 1yrammes of silver per ' Phil. Trans , vol. 207 , 1908 .
] of Trade , etc. coulomb , whereas the Board of Trade ampere was intended to be such as would deposit milligrammes per second .
Table II .
Average of 1 3 , 4 , 5 , and The percentage ence between the two numbers and is , and this differs from per .
by per cent. , or less than 1 part in 10,000 .
We , conchlde equal to ( \ldquo ; defimd by silver part in 10,000 , i.e. , ?
within 1/ 100 )per cmt .
This result is satisfactory , that the meant was set } ) years .
It credit on ] responsible for the adjustment , and shows that the care and skill which or was carried out was of a very order .
very close reenlent also supplies evidence in favour of the constancy of instruments of this and confirms the decision arrived at the onnnitcee of the principle of the balance the best o1le It als support to the opinions of Professor the authors , an extensive experience with the Ayrtou-Jones ) constructed are of currcnt .
It is interesting to notice according to these } ) .iments the of Trade ampere osit silver at the late of ) , .
, tmInes per second , a value which } is nearly identical the This Committee consisted of .
Courtenay Boyle , J. .
Hopwood , Major P. Cardew , representing the Board of Trade ; Mr. reece and Mr , Graves , sentiug the Postal Telegrnph Department ; Lord Kclvin Lord , the Society ; Professor Carey Foster and Mr. B. T. azebrook , the BIitish Association ; and Dr. J. Hopkinson and Professor Ayl.ton , the Institution of EIectrical eers .
Messrs. T. Mather and F. E. Smith .
number , by Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick in their classical : memoir of 1884 .
We desire to express our hearty thanks to Mr. A. P. Trotter , Electrical Adviser to the Board of Trade , for permitting us to make the comparisons , and also for the valuable help he and .
Bennie rendered during the experiments .
We are also indebted to Professor Ayrton and Dr. Glazebrook for the kind interest they have taken in the work , and the facilities afforded for carrying it out .
, received March 20 , 1908 .
In the above communication we have sbated the relation between the Board of Trade ampere and the ampere as determined by the Ayrton-Jones balance .
This relation , together with the results given in a previous paper on " " A New CuIrent Weigher , Professor Ayrton and ourselves , enable us to deduce the E.M.F. 's of the nor1nal Weston and Clark cells in terms of the Board of Trade ampere and the Board of Trade ohm .
In the last-mentioned paper we have shown that the E.M.F. of the normal cadmium cell , in terms of the ampere as given by the -Jones balance and the international ohm as realised at the Natiollal Physical Laboratory , is at C. , and for the normal Clark cell the value is at C. Now , a comparison of resistances made by one of us ( F. in 1903 , gave the following ] ation : 1 N.P.L. international ohm Board of Trade ohms ; and , as above , 1 Ayrton-Jones Board of Trade amperes .
The ratio between the values of is therefore 1 : i.e. , 1 : ; hence we find that the E.M.F. of the normal Weston cell is Board of Trade Board of Trade volts at C. 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 207 , p. Ibid. , ) ; also B.A. Report , , pp. 43\mdash ; 4 .
The Board of Trade volt being defined as the P.D. between the terminals of a resistance of 1 Board of Trade ohm when a current of 1 Board of Trade ampere is passing through it .
, @t11Xes } ! ? ?
, : ( -00t eJqo Solo aquIlII a 81t1l\ldquo ; S ] S1 CoilIIonpag 688 jjlj ) vpuvIS y

