Argon and its Companions .
329 in course of publication , in accordance with the Standing Orders of Council , were read in title:\#151 ; " South African Horse-sickness : its Pathology and Methods of Protective Inoculation .
" By Alexander Edington , M.B. , C.M. , F.R.S.E. , Director of the Colonial Bacteriological Institute , Cape Colony .
Communicated by Sir David Gill , F.R.S. \#171 ; Note on the Occurrence of a Seed-like Fructification in certain Palaeozoic Lycopods .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
" The Demarcation Current of Mammalian Nerve .
( Preliminary Communication .
) Parts I\#151 ; III .
" By J. S. Macdonald , B.A. , L.R.C.P.E. Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Argon and its Companions .
" By Professor W. Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Dr. M. W. Travers .
II .
" Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
YI.\#151 ; A First Study of the Correlation of the Human Skull .
" By Dr. Alice Lee and Professor K. Pearson , F.R.S. III .
" Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
IX.\#151 ; On the Principle of Homotyposis and its Relation to Heredity , to the Variability of the Individual , and to that of the Race .
Part I.\#151 ; Homotyposis in the Vegetable Kingdom .
" By Professor K. Pearson , F.R.S. IV .
" A Chemical Study of the Phosphoric Acid and Potash Contents of the Wheat Soils of Broadbalk Field , Rothamsted .
" By Dr. Bernard Dyer .
Communicated by Sir J. H. Gilbert , F.R.S. " Argon and its Companions .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers , D.Sc .
Received November 13 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The discovery of krypton and neon was announced to the Royal Society in the early summer of 1898 ; and subsequently atmospheric air was found to contain a heavier gas to which the name of xenon was applied .
Mr. Baly , in the autumn of the same year , called attention to the presence of helium lines in the spectrum of neon , an observation 330 Prof. W. Bamsay and Dr. M. W. Travers .
which confirms that made by Professor Kayser , of Bonn , and by Dr. Friedlander , of Berlin .
At the same time we imagined that we had obtained a gas with a spectrum differing from that of argon and yet of approximately the same density ; to this gas we gave the name metargon .
It has now been found that the presence of the so-called metargon is to be accounted for by the fact that in removing oxygen from the mixture of these gases , which was then in our hands , phosphorus containing carbon was employed ; this mixture when burned in oxygen yields a spectrum to some extent identical with that furnished by carbon monoxide , but differing from it in as much as lines of cyanogen are also present .
We have no doubt that the so-called metargon , the spectrum of which is visible only at high pressure , and only when impure phosphorus has been employed to remove oxygen , must be attributed to some carbon compound .
In spite of numerous experiments we have not yet succeeded in producing any gas in quantity which yields this composite spectrum .
It is only to be obtained by a mixture of carbon monoxide with cyanogen .
To obtain the heavier gases krypton and xenon , a large amount of air was allowed to evaporate quietly ; the residue was freed from oxygen and nitrogen , and then consisted of a mixture of krypton , xenon , and argon , the last forming by far the largest portion of the gas ; this mixture was liquefied by causing it to flow into a bulb immersed in liquid air , and the bulk of the argon was removed as soon as the temperature rose , the krypton and the xenon being left behind .
By many repetitions of this process we were finally successful in separating these three gases from each other .
While krypton has a considerable vapour-pressure at the temperature of boiling air , the vapour-pressure of xenon is hardly appreciable , and this afforded a means of finally separating these two gases from one another ; in the complete paper the operations necessary to separate them are fully described .
For neon the process of preparation was different .
The air liquefier furnished a supply of liquid air ; the gas escaping from the liquefier consisted largely of nitrogen ; this mixture was liquefied in a bulb immersed in the liquid air which the machine was making .
When the bulb had been filled with liquid nitrogen a current of air was blown through the liquid until some of the gas had evaporated .
That gas was collected separately , and deprived of oxygen by passage over red-hot copper ; it contained the main portion of the neon and the helium present in the air .
The remainder of the nitrogen was added to the liquid air used for cooling the bulb in which the nitrogen was condensed .
Having obtained a considerable quantity of this light nitrogen it was purified from that gas in the usual manner , and the argon containing helium and -neon was liquefied .
By fractional distillation A rgon and its Companions. .
331 it was possible to remove the greater portion of the helium and neon from this mixture of gases , leaving the argon behind .
Many attempts were made to separate the helium from the neon .
Among these was fractional solution in oxygen , followed by a systematic diffusion of the two gases ; but it was not found possible to raise the density of the neon beyond the number 9*16 , and its spectrum still showed helium lines .
It was not until liquid hydrogen made by an apparatus designed and built by one of us ( M. W. T. ) had been produced in quantity , that the separation was effected ; the neon was liquefied or perhaps solidified at the temperature of boiling hydrogen , while the helium remained gaseous .
A few fractionations serve to produce pure neon ; we did not attempt to separate the helium in a pure state from this mixture .
That these are all monatomic gases was proved by determination of the ratio of their specific heals by Kundt 's method ; the physical properties which we have determined are the refractivities , the densities , the compressibilities at two temperatures , and of argon , krypton and xenon the vapour-pressures and the volumes of the liquids at their boiling points .
The results are as follows Refractivities ( Air = 1 ) . .
Densities of gases ( O = 16 ) Boiling-points at 760 mm. Critical temperatures Critical pressures . . . .
Vapour-pressure ratio . . .
, Weight of 1 c.c. of liquid. .
Molecular volumes ... ... .
Helium .
Neon .
Argon .
Krypton .
Xenon .
0 -1238 0 -2345 0 *968 1 -449 2-364 1*98 9*97 19*96 40 *88 64 ? ?
86-9 ' 121-33 ' 163 *9 ' abs .
abs .
abs . ?
below 68 ' 155-6 ' 210-5 ' 287 '7 ' abs .
abs .
abs .
abs . ? ?
40-2 41 -24 43-5 metres metres metres ? . ?
0 -0350 0 0467 0 -0675 ? ?
1 *212 2 155 3 -52 grammes grammes grammes ? ?
32 '92 37 -84 36 -40 The compressibilities of these gases also show interesting features .
They were measured at two temperatures\#151 ; 11*2 and 237*3 .
; the value of P.Y. for an ideal and perfect gas at 11*2 ' is 17,710 metre-cubic-centimetres , and at 237*3 ' to 31,800 .
This is , of course , on the assumption that the product remains constant whatever be the variation in pressure .
Now with hydrogen at 11*2 C. the product increases with the rise of pressure ; with nitrogen , according to Amagat , it first decreases slightly and then increases slightly .
With helium the increase is more rapid than with hydrogen ; with argon there is first a considerable decrease followed at very high pressures by a gentle 332 Argon and its Companions .
increase , although the product does not reach the theoretical value at 100 atmospheres pressure ; with krypton the change with rise of pressure is a still more marked decrease , and with xenon the decrease is very sudden .
At the higher temperature the results are more difficult to interpret ; while nitrogen maintains its nearly constant value for P.V. , helium decreases rapidly , then increases , and the same peculiarity is to be remarked with the other gases , although they do not give the product of P.Y. coinciding with that calculable by assuming that the increase of P.Y. is proportional to the rise of absolute temperature .
These last experiments must be taken as merely preliminary ; but they show ' that further research in this direction would be productive of interesting results .
The spectra of these gases have been accurately measured by Mr. E. C. C. Baly , with a Rowland 's grating ; the results of his measurements will shortly be published .
It may be remarked , however , that the colour of a neon-tube is extremely brilliant and of an orange-pink hue ; it resembles nothing so much as a flame ; and it is characterised by a multitude of intense orange and yellow lines ; that of krypton is pale violet ; and that of xenon is sky-blue .
The paper contains plates showing the most brilliant lines of the visible spectrum .
That the gases form a series in the periodic table , between that of fluorine and that of sodium is proved by three lines of argument:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The ratio between their specific heats at constant pressure and constant volume is 1*66 .
( 2 ) If the densities be regarded as identical with the atomic weights , as in the case with diatomic gases such as hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen , there is no place for these elements in the periodic table .
The group of elements which includes them is:\#151 ; Hydrogen .
Helium .
1 4 Fluorine .
Neon .
18 20 Chlorine .
Argon .
35*5 40 Bromine .
Krypton .
80 82 Iodine .
Xenon .
127 128 Lithium .
Beryllium .
7 9 Sodium .
Magnesium .
23 24 Potassium .
Calcium .
39 40 Rubidium .
Strontium .
85 87 Caesium .
Barium .
133 137 ( For arguments in favour of placing hydrogen at the head of the fluorine group of elements , see Orme Masson , 'Chem .
News , ' vol. 73 , 1896 , p. 283 .
) Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
333 ( 3 ) These elements exhibit gradations in properties such as refractive index , atomic volume , melting-point , and boiling-point , which find a fitting place on diagrams showing such periodic relations .
Some of these diagrams are reproduced in the original paper .
Thus the refractive equivalents are found at the lower apices of the descending curves ; the atomic volumes , on the ascending branches , in appropriate positions ; and the melting- and boiling-points , like the refractivities , occupy positions at the lower apices .
Although , however , such regularity is to be noticed , similar to that which is found with other elements , we had entertained hopes that the simple nature of the molecules of the inactive gases might have thrown light on the puzzling incongruities of the periodic table .
That hope has been disappointed .
We have not been able to predict accurately any one of the properties of one of these gases from a knowledge of those of the others ; an approximate guess is all that can be made .
The conundrum of the periodic table has yet to be solved .
'Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
VI.\#151 ; A First Study of the Correlation of the Human Skull/ ' By Alice Lee , D.Sc .
, with some assistance from Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received July 13 , \#151 ; Bead November 15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The substance of this paper was a thesis for the London D.Sc .
degree ; it was shown to Professor Pearson , at whose suggestion considerable modifications were made , and a revision undertaken with a view to publication .
In order to deal exactly with the problem of evolution in man it is necessary to obtain in the first place a quantitative appreciation of the size , variation , and correlation of the chief characters in man for a number of local races .
Several studies of this kind have been already undertaken at University College .
These fall into two classes , ( i ) those that deal with a variety of characters in one local race , and ( ii ) those which study the comparative value of the constants from a variety of races .
Thus Dr. E. Warren has dealt with the long bones of the Naqada race , * Mr. Leslie Bramley-Moore has compared the regression equations for the long bones from a considerable number of races in a memoir not * * Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 189 , p. 135 .

