878 .
] Phyto-PalceontologicalInvestigations .
221 he solubility of the hemialbumose in water , nor that of the globulins a 10 per cent. NaCl solution , but it renders the protoplasmic matrix f the cells quite insoluble in dilute alkaline solutions .
These facts vere established by experiments with grains which had been in alcohol or three months .
I have detected the presence of hemialbumose in the seeds of vetches ind of the hemp and flax plants , and I propose to study the mode of its occurrence in .
the seeds of these and other plants , as I have already ione in the case of the blue lupin , and further , to determine what is its exact significance in the process of germination .
VIII .
" Report on Phyto-Palseontological Investigations generally and on those relating to the Eocene Flora of Great Britain in particular .
" By Dr. Constantin Baron Ettingshausen , Professor in the University of Graz , Austria .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 12 , 1878 .
When , about thirty years ago , I began to direct my attention to the study of the fossil Flora , the knowledge of fossil forms of plants was confined almost exclusively to forms of the Palaeozoic formations .
Of the Tertiary Flora there existed at that time a very imperfect conception ; but few beds of Tertiary plants were known , and these had been only superficially examined .
Leaf-skeletons had not been examined , and consequently the characteristic marks upon them were not available for the purpose of instituting a comparison with the fossil leaves .
The fossils themselves were only obtained from stones which had been exposed to the air , and were easily split asunder , and it was thus impossible to arrive at any accurate knowledge of the nature of the old world plants .
In fact , parts of one and the same plant were often regarded as plants of different genera* Thus on making a closer and more careful investigation into the Coal Flora of Bohemia , I was able to show that the Asterojohyllites are the branches , and the the fruits of the Calamites .
It appeared to me , therefore , necessary that I should devote myself to the study of the so-much-neglected Flora of the Cainozoic formations .
With this object in view , I determined:\#151 ; Firstly , to collect fossil plants as completely as possible , in order that my investigation should produce results on which I might entirely rely .
Secondly , to improve the method of investigation , especially with regard to the working out of the skeletons of the leaves of living plants , so as in that way to acquire sure standpoints from which to determine the species of the fossil leaves .
Thirdly , not to confine the scope of the inquiry within the limits of 222 Baron Ettingshausen .
[ Dec. 1$ mere palaeontological interest , but above all to extend it to the unveil ing of the history of the development of the whole vegetable kingdon As in studying the Eocene Flora of Great Britain I shall follow th path of the inquiry which I originally took , I must begin by giving a : account of my method of investigating fossil plants , and I shall thei explain the results which I have obtained .
I.\#151 ; The Method of obtaining Fossil It has been usual to collect fossil plants by splitting the pieces a rocks with a hammer .
The more a stone has been exposed to the actioi of the weather , the easier it is to break it and lay bare what is within But fossil plants found under such circumstances are no longer in gooc preservation : they have suffered greatly from exposure to the weather and generally only the outlines are visible ; their structure and the fines : veins of the leaf-skeleton are lost .
Stone when it has not been exposed to the air is not easily split ; the more compact it is the more difficuli it will be found to obtain the fossils in this way .
Under favourable circumstances only fragments of the fossils are obtained .
By the forcible splitting of pieces of rocks with a hammer it is only possible to succeed very imperfectly in obtaining fossil plants , besides which it must always be a lucky chance that the hammer strikes that part of the stone in which the plants lie concealed , and that it has not been injured by the blow , for a large number of fossils are lost in this way , or remain undiscovered in the stone .
I have found a method by which fossil plants can be satisfactorily got out of the most compact rocks without using a hammer .
The pieces of rocks are for a considerable time subjected to a thorough soaking under the pressure of two or three atmospheres .
In an iron vessel full of water brought into connexion with a stand-pipe the stones are left lying for half a year ( most advantageously in summertime ) .
In those places where there is a fossil in the stone the material of the stone is not continuous .
Thus numerous , often microscopically small , splits and other hollow spaces are found along the fossil plants .
These hollow spaces get filled little by little with water .
Then the stones which have been treated in this manner are exposed to an intense cold , \#151 ; 15 ' to 20 ' C. The water in the hollow spaces is turned into ice , and by this means the stones are burst asunder on the spot where there are petrifactions .
The stones open of themselves , and show what they contain .
The more compact the stone the surer and more complete by this method is the successful acquisition of the fossil plants .
They show the original state in which they were preserved .
With very hard stones the soaking and the subsequent freezing must be frequently repeated .
On the first action of the frost the splits and hollow spaces are widened by the formation of ice within them to the surface of the stone .
These must be quite filled again with 878.1 Phyto-Pa Iceonto logica l .
-ater ; the stone will thus be raised to a higher temperature and again xposed to the soaking process .
The ice formation and the soaking eing thus employed alternately , the widening of the splits increases , 11 at last the stone opens of itself exactly along the enclosed fossil , which then comes to the light of day uninjured and in the best state of reservation .
This method offers not only the advantage of securing for invest !
ga-ion the most complete and well preserved fossil plants , but it yields Iso a much larger amount of material than could be obtained by the \gt ; ld method of forcibly splitting with a hammer .
In this way no fossil jan be lost .
All the fossil plants in the stones are uninjured .
Luck md chance are excluded .
To obtain an abundant supply of useful material for investigation is of the greatest importance for the study of Phyto-Palseontology and must lead to better and surer results .
II.\#151 ; Method of Investigating Fossil Plants .
Phyto-Palaeontologists have hitherto made too many species .
Unfortunately authors have been too readily disposed to adopt as a new species every slightly differing form .
Consequently not only is science encumbered by a useless burden , but it is itself brought into a discredit which hn.a occasioned serious injury to the progress of this branch of science .
The most important way of remedying this evil , lies in procuring abundant material for investigation , showing a series of forms , and thus causing the false species to disappear .
A collection of fossil plants acquired by careful study must therefore contain not only rare specimens , but as large a number as possible of a series of forms of common fossils .
These series should be divided into two groups , the series of the contemporaneous , and of the non-contemporaneous ( genetic ) forms .
The first is obtained by the bringing together the forms of a fossil out of the extension of one and the same layer ( horizontal extension ) , the second in the searching for a fossil in different horizons ( vertical extension).* The latter series supplies the material for the phylogeny of the species , the complete elucidation of which is of the highest importance for the history of the development of the vegetable world .
A second way of removing the above-mentioned unsatisfactory state of things would be to put aside certain obsolete notions and prejudices .
People are prone to admit mere differences of stratigraphical position as sufficient ground for the acceptance of a particular species , when indeed there appears to be no substantial reason arising out of its distinctive character .
Only too often an insignificant difference of form , then regarded as important , is held to justify the acceptance of a species , if the fossil belongs to another horizon or another formation .
My experience , however , has led me to the conclusion , that , in many cases , one species passes through many horizons and indeed through greater periods , 224 Baron Ettingshausen .
[ Dec. IS and that the number of the species is reduced all the more rapidl the more remote the Flora is from that of the present world .
But c this more later on .
The method of investigating fossil plants must , above all things , b directed to their exact classification , and consequently to a knowledgt of the facts on which the history of the development of the vegetable kingdom is supported .
This however is only made possible by mos ' carefully comparing fossil plants with living ones .
Unfortunately , ii this respect , so many faults and mistakes have been committed , thai the greater part of the determinations as yet arrived at require revision and correction .
Hitherto the fossils have not been compared accurately enough with the recent vegetable world .
It may be franklj said , that most phyto-palaeontologists possess too little botanical knowledge ; how can it be expected of a novice in botany , that he should classify fossil plants correctly , if he do not thoroughly know the living ones ?
The most frequent difficulties arise in classifying the fossil leaves which form by far the greatest number of fossil plant remains .
The leaf skeleton which offers the most important marks for their classification must first be studied with this object , for the systematic botanists have barely regarded this matter at all .
I may indeed point out , as a very fortunate circumstance , that exactly at the time I was much occupied with this work , Nature Printing was invented in the State Printing Office , at Vienna ( 1852 ) , an operation by which the leaves of living plants with all the details of their finest veins were printed off in the most accurate manner .
I was permitted to publish a series of works on the leaf-skeleton together with illustrations in nature printing with the object of comparing them with fossil plants .
The marks on the leaf-skeleton were examined and arranged , and at present all the families of living plants which are of importance in relation to the fossil Flora have been already brought into scientific order according to their leaf-skeletons .
III.\#151 ; Object and Plan of the Investigation of Fossil Plants .
Fossil plants are often examined only for palaeontological or geological purposes , but in the opinion of the author it is also necessary to consider the interests of botany .
We must in this always take our departure from the known to discover the unknown .
We proceed , therefore , from the Flora of the present world , step by step , to the primaeval , and thus have first to investigate the Cainozoic Flora .
Only when these have been fully examined and their connexion with the living Flora completely ascertained , can the Mezozoic Flora be so worked out that the genetic connexion of the Cainozoic Flora with the latter will be determined .
The final object of these labours will be the investigation of the Palaeozoic Flora , \lt ; 78 .
] Phyto-Pa Ice onto logical Investigations . .
225 td through them the question of the origin of the vegetable kingdom 11 receive such an answer as is open to human inquiry .
How is it possible to discover the genetic connexion of Floras llowing each other in immediate succession ?
The successive Floras of different ages are not sharply distinguished om each other , but there are the most manifold transitions between aem .
These transitions are to be found in the common species .
It ; therefore desirable closely to examine , in the above-mentioned lethod , the species most frequently met with , and specially to select \#187 ; om the different varieties the progressive and retrogressive forms , lie placing together these with other varieties discovered , in a vertical irection ( that is , crossing the horizons lying over each other ) , the )hylogenetic series are obtained , and therewith also the required connecting links of the Floras .
As examples of the Phylogenetic series , only those of the Gastanea itavia and of the Pinus palceo-strobus* ) , found by me , are at present mown .
Other Phylogenetic series which I have discovered will be published at a future time .
IV.\#151 ; Results relating generally to the Tertiary Flora .
My method of procuring fossil plants , and the improved method of investigation on the one part , and on the other the direction of the inquiry which I adopted , have led me to results which are very little in harmony with those obtained by the old method .
I can only describe most of the previously determined species as being some of them incorrect , and the others of no value , inasmuch as the knowledge respecting them has been derived from insufficient materials. .
I shall probably , however , not be in a position to adduce special proof of this , and so correctly to determine which the false species are .
On account of much new work , I must be satisfied to refer to it generally , and leave it to future specialists to relieve science from the mistakes which have been made .
I have found:\#151 ; Firstly , that all the Floras of the earth stand in genetic connexion with the Tertiary Flora .
These contain the original species of the recent Flora and plant forms of all parts of the globe .
The mixing together of forms of plants is clearly shown , especially in the Miocene Flora , as I at first pointed out in the Tertiary Flora of Austria .
Secondly , that in each of the recent Floras are to be perceived the elements of their common original Flora .
They have , however , been more or less changed , and appear frequently altered into manifold forms .
I have given the name of " Florenglieder " ( members of a Flora ) to these extensively-developed Flora elements .
The character of a Flora * " Bcitrage sir Erforschung der Phylogenie der Pflanzenarten , " " Denkschriften der Wiener Akademie der Wissenschaften , " Band xxxviii .
226 Baron Ettingshausen .
[ Dec. 19 has formed itself through the greater development of one element which has become the " Haupt-Florenglied " ( principal member of a Flora ) such as , for instance , has occurred in the Flora of Australia , * and of the Cape.f The rest of the genetic members have remained rudimentary .
The Endemic species of European , Asiatic , and East Indian genera are , in the above-mentioned Floras , the representatives of these " Nebenglieder " ( secondary members ) .
Thirdly , that the species of fossil plants inclined much more to the formation of varieties than those of living plants , and that the varieties of the fossil species , for the most part , correspond with the species of existing Flora .
I have proved this in the case the Pinus pulceo-strobus , the varieties of which so entirely correspond with many of the recent Pinus species , that the former must be recognised as the original forms of the latter .
At some future time , I hope to publish a demonstration of the genetic connexion of the varieties of many other Tertiary plants with species of plants in the living world .
V.\#151 ; Results relating to the Eocene Flora of Great Britain .
The very extensive materials which I have had under examination were principally those of the collections of the British Museum and that of Mr. John S. Gardner , and I have here to express to Mr. H. Woodward and Mr. Carruthers , as well as to Mr. Gardner , my most grateful thanks for their willing aid .
I desire , also , especially to acknowledge my deep obligation to the Royal Society , from which I have received a grant for the investigation of the Eocene Flora of Great Britain .
Mr. Gardner has gained for himself well deserved acknowledgments for the important services he has rendered in discovering and obtaining a vast collection of the Eocene Flora of Great Britain , and it has given me great satisfaction to have been associated with him in the study of this fossil Flora .
As the geology of the localities of the Eocene Flora of Great Britain has been already published by Mr. Gardner , I proceed at once to those results which the investigation of this Flora have , up to the present time , produced .
These results can only be partially indicated now , as the comparing of the fossil Flora of Great Britain with other Floras will not be published until the investigations are completed .
For the present , the monographic work of the Filices is finished in manuscript .
The Eocene Flora of Great Britain is distinguished by a series of tropical forms of ferns .
Of these are especially to be named the peculiar genera of Podoloma and G , which connect themselves mostly with tropical forms of then the peculiar genus Menyphyllum most nearly related to the tropical * Ettingshausen , " Die genetische Gliederung der Flora Australians , " " Denk-schriften der Wiener Akademie der Wissenschaften , " Band xxxvii .
f Ettingshausen , " Die genetische Gliederung der Cap-Flora , " " Sitzungsber .
der Wiener Akademie der Wissenschaften , " Band lxxi .
878.1 Phyto-Pa Ice onto logica l Investigations .
227 IIP . .
_ * a addition may be mentioned forms of and he appearance of the genus Gleichenia reminds us of the fern Flora of ie Cretaceous period , while some species of Pteris and Phegopteris are plated to species of the Miocene Flora .
One fern , Asplenites alluso~ oides Ung , as yet only known in the Fossil Flora of Sotzka , has also ere found its predecessor .
The .
species of the Eocene Flora of Great Britain are enumerated as v follows:\#151 ; I Filices of the Eocene Flora of Great Britain .
Names of Species .
Localities .
Formation .
Obd .
POLYPODIACE .
E. a. AcrostichacecB .
Chrysodium Lanzaeanum .
Vis sp. ? .
Studland , Bourne- Lower and Midmouth .
dle Eocene .
b. Polypodiece .
Podoloma polypodioides .
Ett .
et Gard. .
Bournemouth Middle Eocene .
" affine .
Ett .
et Gard .
) ) . .
Glossochlamys transmutans .
Ett .
et Gard . . . . . . .
\#171 ; . . .
j ) \gt ; \#166 ; ) Polypodium sp. , near to P. . . . .
) ) . .
99 99 " lepidotum .
Willd .
f. \#187 ; . .
99 99 c. Pteridece .
Adiantum Carruthersii .
Ett .
et Gard . .
\#187 ; . .
Pteris eocenica .
Ett .
et Gard. .
9 } * . .
" Bournemouthiana .
Ett .
et Gard. .
) ) . .
" 99 " pseudo-pennseformis .
Lesq .
Counter Hill Lower Eocene .
d. Aspleniacece .
Asplenites prse-allusoroides .
Ett .
et Gard . . . . .
, , , , * , Bournemouth . .
Middle Eocene .
e. Aspidiacece .
% Menyphyllum elegans .
Ett .
et Gard. .
s\gt ; 99 . .
Phegopteris prae-cuspidata .
Ett .
et r Gard . .
, .
, .
, , 99 S .
Phegopteris Bunburii .
Heer . .
, .
Bovey Tracey . .
Bournemouth . .
99 99 Obd .
Gleicheniaceje .
Gleichenia hantonensis .
JVanJclyn sp. .
Bournemouth 99 99 Obd .
Schiz.eace.2e .
* Lygodium Kaulfussi .
PLeer , , , .
99 . .
99 99 Obd .
Osmttndace.ze .
Osmunda subcretacea .
Saporta 99 . .
" lignitum .
Gieb .
sp. .
, .
Bovey Tracey 99 99 Bournemouth . .
99 99 228 Presents .
[ Deo .
5 j The Society then adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , j January 9 , 1879 .
Presents , December 5 , 1878 .
Transactions .
Bombay:\#151 ; Royal Asiatic Society , Bombay Branch .
Journal .
Vol. i XIII .
No. 85 .
8vo .
1878 .
The Society , j Bordeaux:\#151 ; Societe de Medecine et de Chirurgie .
Memoires et Bulletins .
1877 .
fasc .
1-4 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society , j Briinn:\#151 ; Naturforschender Verein .
Verhandlungen .
Band XV .
1 Heft 1 , 2 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society , !
Brussels :\#151 ; Societe Malacologique de Belgique .
Annales .
Tome IX .
fasc .
2 .
Tome II ( 2\#174 ; Serie .
Tome I ) .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1876~78.ll The Society , t Cincinnati:\#151 ; Society of Natural History .
Journal .
Vol. I. No. 1 , 2 .
8vo .
1878 .
The Society| j Davenport ( Iowa ) :\#151 ; Academy of Natural Sciences .
Proceedings^ i Vol. II .
Part 1 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Academy ] i Liege:\#151 ; Societe-Geologique de Belgique .
Annals .-TomeIV .
8vo .
1877 . !
The Society^ London :\#151 ; Geological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Vol. XXXIV .
Part 3 , 4 .
8vo .
1878 .
List of Fellows .
8vo .
The Society ] Institution of Civil Engineers .
Minutes of Proceedings .
Vol. LII , Lin , JjlV .
8vo .
1878 . .
] The Institute* ; u Royal Agricultural Society .
Journal .
Second Series .
Vol. XIV .
Part 2 .
8vo .
1878 .
The Society]^ Royal Asiatic Society .
Journal .
New Series .
Vol. X. Part 3J .
8 vo .
1878 . . . . . . . . .
The Society ( if Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society .
Medico-Chirurgica4fl Transactions .
Vol. LXI .
8vo .
1878 .
Proceedings .
Vol. VIII .
: No. 6 : 8vo.'1878 .
" The Society .
Il Royal United .Service Institution .
Journal .
Vol , XXII .
No. 96 , 1 8vo .
1878 . .
Index to the Lectures and Papers contained in : fc Vols. XI-XX .
8vo .
1878 .
The Institution , S1 New Haven:\#151 ; Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Trans-* actions .
Vol. III .
Part 2 .
8vo .
1878 .
The Academy , i New York:\#151 ; American Geographical Society .
Bulletin .
1878 .
No. 2 , f| 8vo .
... .
The Society . !
Sydney:\#151 ; Linnean Society of New South Wales .
Proceedings.\#174 ; Vol. II .
Part 3 , 4 .
Vol. III .
Part 1 .
8vo .
1878 .
The Society .
1

