VI .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun."-No .
VI .
By J. NORa AN LociKER .
Received April 27 , 1870 .
The weather lately has been fine enough and the sun high enough during my available observation-time to enable me to resume work .
The crop of new facts is not very large , not so large as it would have been had I been working with a strip of the sun , say fifty miles or a hundred miles wide , instead of one considerably over a thousand-indeed , nearer two thousand in width ; but in addition to the new facts obtained , I have 354 [ May 19 , very largely strengthened my former observations , so that the many hours I have spent in watching phenomena , now perfectly familiar to me , have not been absolutely lost .
The negative results which Dr. Frankland and myself have obtained in our laboratory-work in the matter of the yellow bright line , near D , in the spectrum of the chromosphere being a hydrogen line , led me to make a special series of observations on that line , with a view of differentiating it , if possible , from the line C. It had been remarked , some time ago , by Professor Zollner , that the yellow line was often less high in a prominence than the C line ; this , however , is no evidence ( bearing in mind our results with regard to magnesium ) .
The proofs I have now to lay before the Royal Society are of a different order , and are , I take it , conclusive:1 .
With a tangential slit I have seen the yellow line bright below the chromosphere , while the C line has been dark ; the two lines being ill the same field of view .
2 .
In the case of a bright prominence over a spot on the disk , the C and F lines have been seen bright , while the yellow line has been invisible .
3 .
In a high-pressure injection of hydrogen , the motion indicated by change of wave-length has been less in the case of the yellow line than in the case of C and F. 4 .
In a similar quiescent injection the pressure indicated has been less .
5 .
In one case the C line was seen long and unbroken , while the yellow line was equally long , but broken .
The circumstance that this line is so rarely seen dark upon the sun makes me suspect a connexion between it and the line at 5015 Angstrom , which is also a bright line , and often is seen bright in the chromosphere , and then higher than the sodium and magnesium lines , when they are visible at the same time ; and the question arises , must we not attribute these lines to a substance which exists at a higher temperature than those mixed with it , and to one of very great levity ?
for its absorption line remains invisible , as a rule , in spot spectra .
I have been able to make a series of observations on the fine spot which was visible when I commenced them on the 10th instant , not far from the centre of its path over the disk .
At this time , the spot , as I judged by the almost entire absence of indications of general absorption in the penumbral regions , was shallow , and this has happened to many of the spots seen lately .
A few hours ' observation showed that it was getting deeper apparently , and that the umbrae were enlarging and increasing in number , as if a general downsinking were taking place ; but clouds came over , and the observations were interrupted .
By the next day ( April 11 ) the spot had certainly developed , and now there was a magnificently bright prominence , completely over the darkest mass of umbra , the prominence being fed from the penumbra or very close to it , a fact indicated by greater brilliancy than in the bright C and F lines .
April 12 .
The prominence was persistent .
April 15 .
Spot nearing the limb , prominence still persistent over spot .
At eleven I saw no prominence of importance on the limb , but about an hour afterwards I was absolutely startled by a prominence not , I think , depending upon the spot I have referred to , but certainly near it , more than 2 ' high , showing a tremendous motion towards the eye .
There were light clouds , which reflected to me the solar spectrum , and I therefore saw the black C line at the same time .
The prominence C line ( on which changes of wave-length are not so well visible as in the F line ) was only coincident with the absorption-line for a few seconds of arc !
Ten minutes afterwards the thickness of the line towards the right was all the indication of motion I got .
In another ten minutes the bright and dark lines were coincident .
And shortly afterwards what motion there was was towards the red !
I pointed out to the Royal Society , now more than a year ago * , that the largest prominences , as seen at any one time , are not necessarily those in which either the intensest action or the most rapid change is going on .
From the observations made on this and the following day , I think that we may divide prominences into two classes:1 .
Those in which great action is going on , lower vapours being injected ; in the majority of cases these are not high , they last only a short timeare throbs , and are oft renewed , and are not seen so frequently near the sun 's poles as near the equator .
They often accompany spots , but are not limited to them .
These are the intensely bright prominences of the American photographs .
2 .
Those which are perfectly tranquil , so far as wave-length evidence goes .
They are often high , are persistent , and not very bright .
These do not , as a rule , accompany spots .
These are the " radiance " and dull prominences shown in the American photographs .
I now return to my observations of the spot .
On the 16th the last of the many umbre was close to the limb , and the most violent action was indicated occasionally .
I was working with the C line , and certainly never saw such rapid changes of wave-length before .
The motion was chiefly horizontal , or nearly so , and this was probably the reason why , in spite of the great action , the prominences , three or four of which were shut out , never rose very high .
I append some drawings made , at my request , by an artist , Mr. Holiday , who happened to be with me , and who had never seen my instrument or the solar spectrum widely dispersed before .
I attach great importance to them , as they are the untrained observations of a keen judge of form .
The appearances were at times extraordinary and new to me .
The hydrogen shot out rapidly , scintillating as it went , and suddenly here and there the bright line , broad and badly defined , would be pierced , as it were , by a line of intensely brilliant light parallel to the length of the spectrum , and at times the whole prominence spectrum was built up of bright lines so arranged , indicating that the prominence itself was built up of single discharges , shot out from the region near the limb with a velocity sometimes amounting to 100 miles a second .
After this had gone on for a time , the prominence mounted , and the cyclonic motion became evident ; for away from the sun , as shown in my sketch , the separate masses were travelling away from the eye ; then gradually a background of less luminous hydrogen was formed , moving with various velocities , and on this background the separate " bombs " appeared ( I was working with a vertical spectrum ) like exquisitely jewelled ear-rings .
It soon became evident that the region of the chromosphere just behind that in which the prominence arose , was being driven back with a velocity something like 20 miles a second , the back-rush being so local that with the small image 1 am unfortunately compelled to use , both the moving and rigid portions were included in the thickness of the slit .
I saw the two absorption-lines overlap .
These observations were of great importance to me ; for the rapid action enabled me to put together several phenomena I was perfectly familiar with separately , and see their connected meaning .
They may be summarized as follows , and it will be seen that they teach us much concerning the nature of prominences .
When the air is perfectly tranquil in the neighbourhood of a large spot , or , indeed , generally in any part of the disk , we see absorption-lines running along the whole length of the spectrum , crossing the Fraunhofer lines , and they vary in depth of shade and breadth according as we have pore , corrugation , or spot under the corresponding part of the slit , -a pore , in fact , is a spot .
Here and there , where the spectrum is brightest ( where a bright point of facula is under the slit ) , we suddenly see an interesting bright lozenge of light .
This I take to be due to bright hydrogen at a greater pressure than ordinary , and this then is the reason of the intensely bright points seen in ranges of faculae observed near the limb .
The appearance of this lozenge in the spectroscope , which indicates a diminution of pressure round its central portion , is the signal for some , and often all of the following phenomena:1 .
A thinning and strange variations in the visibility and thickness of the hydrogen absorption-line under observation .
2 .
The appearance of other lozenges in the same locality .
3 .
The more or less decided formation of a bright prominence on the disk .
4 .
If near the limb , this prominence may extend beyond it , and its motion-form will then become more easy of observation .
In such cases the motion is cyclonic in the majority of cases , and generally very rapid , and-another feature of a solar storm the photospheric vapours are torn up with the intensely bright hydrogen , the number of bright lines visible determining the depth from which the vapours are torn , and varying almost directly with the amount of motion indicated .
Here , then , we have , I think , the chain that connects the prominences with the brighter points of the faculme .
These lozenge-shaped appearances , which were observed close to the spot on the 16th , were accompanied by the " throbs " of the eruption , to which I have before referred ; while Mr. Holiday was with me-a space of two hours-there were two outbursts , separated by a state of almost rest , and each outburst consisting of a series of discharges , as I have shown .
I subsequently witnessed a third outburst .
The phenomena observed on all three were the same in kind .
On this day I was so anxious to watch the various motion-forms of the hydrogen-lines , that I did not use the tangential slit .
This I did the next day ( the 17th of April ) in the same region , when similar eruptions were visible , though the spot was no longer visible .
Judge of my surprise and delight , when upon sweeping along the spectrum , I found HUNDREDS of the Fraunhofer lines beautifully bright at the base of the prominence ! ! !
The complication of the chromosphere spectrum was greatest in the regions more refiangible than C , from E to long past b and near F , and high-pressure iron vapour was one of the chief causes of the phenomenon .
I have before stated to the Royal Society that I have seen the chromosphere full of lines ; but the fullness then was as emptiness compared with the observation to which I now refer .
A more convincing proof of the theory of the solar constitution , put forward by Dr. Frankland and myself , could scarcely have been furnished .
This observation not only endorses all my former work in this direction , but it tends to show the shallowness of the region on which many of the more important solar phenomena take place , as well as its exact locality .
The appearance of the F line , with a tangential slit at the base of the prominence , included two of the lozenge-shaped brilliant spots to which I have before referred ; they were more elongated than usual-an effect of pressure , I hold-greater pressure and therefore greater complication of the chromosphere spectrum .
This complication is almost impossible of observation on the disk .
It is noteworthy that in another prominence , on the same side of the sun , although the action was great , the erupted materials were simple , i. e. only sodium and magnesium , and that a moderate alteration of wave-length in these vapours was obvious .
Besides these observations on the 17th , I also availed myself of the pureness of the air to telescopically examine the two spots on the disk , which the spectroscope reported tranquil as to up and down rushes .
I saw every cloud-dome in their neighbourhood perfectly , and I saw these domes drawn out , by horizontal currents doubtless , in the penumbrse , while on the floors of the spots , here and there , were similar single cloudmasses , the distribution of which varied from time to time , the spectrum of these masses resembling that of their fellows on the general surface of the sun .
I have before stated that the region of a spot comprised by the penumbra appears to be shallower in the spots I have observed lately ( we are now near the maximum period of sun spots ) ; I have further to remark that I have evidence that the chromosphere is also shallower than it was in 1868 .
I am now making special observations on these two points , as I consider that many important conclusions may be drawn from them .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE III. .
1 .
Prominence much bent .
'w 2 .
Prominence encroaching over limb-bright line crossing black line .
" 3 .
Black line ( F ) curved downwards , sometimes nearly touching iron line below^ 4 .
_ 5 .
Prominence nearly divided .
6 .
Intensely brilliant flashes above and below centres ( of F lines ) ; the interrupt ; ( tions very complete .
7 &amp; 8 .
Curves in prominence very marked .
9 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 15 .
My own drawings , made during first and second outbursts .
11 .
A lozenge on the limb as seen with a tangential slit .
13 .
A lozenge as seen on the sun itself .

