598 Note on the Iridescent Colours of Birds and Insects .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received September 12 , \#151 ; Read November 2 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 11 .
] Considerable interest attaches to the origin of certain forms of brilliant colouring which are of frequent occurrence in the animal world , though hardly represented among plants.* The colours in question are those which are not due to ordinary pigment , and which change with the angle of incidence of the light .
The most brilliant examples are to be found amongst birds and insects .
Fishes , and a few reptiles , exhibit colours of the.same kind , but not so conspicuously .
During the last 10 or 12 years I have examined some hundreds of cases of this sort of colour production , and quite recently Michelsonj* has published investigations on the same subject , and refers to a somewhat similar paper by Walter , " Oberflachen und Schillerfarben , " dated 1895 , of the existence of which I was not before aware .
The conclusions of these authors are that the colours in question are , in most cases , due to selective reflection from an intensely opaque material , and , in some few , to diffraction from a finely striated surface .
Their reasons for adopting the hypothesis of'selective reflection rather than interference are the close similarities , as regards the reflection of polarised light , found between the natural iridescent colours and dry films of aniline dyes .
In the present note I give some reasons for the belief that , in the majority of cases , interference of some sort is the active cause ; although , in others , the possibility of selective reflection is not excluded .
The question really turns on the size of the " grain " of the colour-producing structure .
Is it comparable with the wave-length of light or of molecular dimensions ?
If the colours are due to interference , the first supposition must be true ; but if selective reflection is the agent , a comparatively small group of molecules may cause selective reflection .
It seems clear that this property cannot belong to individual molecules , at any rate in the case of the aniline dyes , for their solutions absorb impartially all the colours which are not transmitted , and it is only in the solid state that their peculiarities-as regards reflected light become apparent ; at the same time there is no change in the light transmitted , whether the dye is in solution or -a dry film .
* Some Lycopodiums exhibit traces of iridescent colour , t " Metallic Colouring in Birds and Insects , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1911 .
Note on the Iridescent Colours of Birds and Insects .
599 Before entering in detail into the reasons which seem to point to interference rather than selective reflection as the origin of iridescent colours , some general remarks may be made on the character of the structures examined .
These structures have been either feathers of birds or the scales of insects , There are few orders of birds in which examples of iridescent colouring cannot be found , but without doubt the humming birds are the most brilliant ; although peacocks , trogons , and many others , are not very far inferior .
In the insect world the finest examples are to be found amongst butterflies and the day-flying moths of the genus Urania .
Some beetles also are provided with vividly coloured scales .
These belong mostly to the weevils ( which include the Brazilian diamond-beetle ) .
Many other insects among the Diptera , Neuroptera and Hymenoptera show brilliant metallic colours on their integuments , but these are not provided with scales , and in many cases the colour fades , more or less , when the specimens become dry .
These I have not examined .
Feathers and scales , however , are remarkable for the permanence of their iridescent colouring , and it is to these only that the present observations apply .
Some of the peculiarities of the structures , as regards change of colour with the point of view , depend on the shape of the surface on which the colour-producing material lies .
If the surfaces are flat or nearly flat , reflection takes place as from a looking glass , and the angle through which the specimen can be turned while still showing the characteristic colour is small .
Often , however , the surfaces are convex bosses or ridges , and then the angle of incidence and reflection is that contained between the direction of the incident light and the normal to the tangent plane at the point where reflection takes place , and is therefore to a great extent independent of the position in which the specimen is held , since there will always , within wide limits , be tangent planes to the convex surfaces which reflect the incident light in the line of sight .
In these cases the colours might at first sight be taken as due to pigment , both on account of their comparatively low intensity and from the small change in tint and intensity which is produced by altering the inclination of the general surface to the direction of the illumination .
The low intensity is of course due to the small area of each convex surface which reflects light in any given direction .
In attempting to investigate the origin of the colours many methods were employed , the first and most obvious being to cut thin sections normal to the colour-producing surface and then to examine them with the highest microscopic power available .
If the colours are analogous to those of thin plates it is clear from the high intensity of the reflected light that more than one pair of surfaces must co-operate in the reflection .
In general the reflected Mr. A. Mallock .
[ Sept. 12 , light is not even approximately monochromatic , and this fact limits the number of surfaces which can be supposed to act ; but if the surfaces are supposed to be separated by air and placed at the most favourable intervals , their number need not exceed three or four to account for the observed intensity and tints .
The most favourable spacing for the successive layers is that their thickness and the intervals between them should be a multiple of the half wTave-length of the mean ray , reckoned in the length of the waves within the material of the layer , and it was thought possible that the thin sections might show a laminated structure .
For the material of feathers and insects ' scales , fi is somewhere about 1*5 or 1*6 , so that the least thickness for the plates of refractive material would be of the order of 1/ 150,000 and the air intervals 1/ 100,000 of an inch\#151 ; both beyond tire resolving power of the microscope ; but from the composition of the reflected light it seemed likely that the intervals might be two or three half wave-lengths , which would be readily seen as far as adequate separation of the images is concerned .
In nearly all the sections examined bands of this order of thickness appeared with some forms of illumination , but it was impossible to be sure that they were not due to diffraction effects from parts of the section slightly out of focus .
There are many difficulties in preparing sections thin enough for the advantageous use of objectives with large angular aperture .
When a section is to show a stratified structure its thickness should certainly not be greater than the distance between the successive strata , and may with advantage be much less .
It was not difficult to cut sections about 1/ 20,000 inch thick , but this is three or four times too thick to show with certainty stratification whose pitch is 1/ 60,000 or less .
Occasionally , by accident , thinner sections ( perhaps 1/ 40,000 ) would be cut , and these showed apparent stratification most plainly , but in no case was the image free from the effect caused by some part of the thickness of the section being out of focus , and , in all probability , what appeared to be stratification was in reality a series of diffraction bands .
Insufficient thinness , however , is by no means the only obstacle to resolving the grain in th# structure .
Thin sections are in general very transparent , and the only source of variation of intensity in the image formed by the microscope depends on the varying amount of retardation affecting the waves which traverse their different parts , that is ( since the section is of uniform thickness ) on differences of refractive index ; but , in order to view such sections at all , it is necessary to mount them in some refractive medium , and this greatly reduces the chance of detecting a fine-grained structure .
* 1911 .
] Note on the Iridescent Colours of Birds and Insects .
601 I have tried washing out the bedding material and examining the sections when dry , but , although great care was taken in keeping the cutting edge of the knife smooth and sharp , striae always appeared in the direction of the cut , which quite obscured the real structure .
The fact is , that there are very few objects on which the highest microscopic powers can be used with advantage .
Even the test diatom , A. pellucida , which , of course , has to be mounted dry , or in a medium whose refractive index greatly exceeds that of silica , is too thick to give a satisfactory image , and small solids , whose dimensions are less than a wave-length , give images which are not their enlarged geometrical outlines , but phenomena depending on the wave-length .
Although the microscope , in my hands , at any rate , has failed to give direct evidence of a " periodic " structure , other tests point strongly to " interference " as the origin of the colours .
In some cases the colour-producing film is backed by an extremely opaque layer , and in others the whole of the structure is transparent , and transmits the complementary colour with nearly the same intensity as the colour reflected .
Even where there is an opaque backing , this is often thin enough to allow of examination by strong transmitted light , and the prevailing colour is a brown , tinged with the unabsorbed complementary to the colour reflected .
These opaque backings are present in most feathers and in some insect scales , but in the majority of cases the scales of insects are transparent .
Both theory and observation show that , when the reflected colour depends on interference , the tint will change towards the blue as the angle of incidence increases , so that reds become yellows , yellows change to greens , and greens to blues , and also that , if the colour-producing structure is immersed in a refractive fluid instead of air , the reflected colour will change towards red , and have its intensity reduced .
Two causes are operative in producing this change : In the first place , if the colour-producing film is protected from the fluid by an impermeable outer layer , with which it is in optical contact , the only effect of the fluid is to diminish the angle of incidence of a ray of given obliquity in air , so that the colour reflected is that due to the smaller angle of incidence .
Secondly , if the fluid penetrates the layers in which interference takes place , the interval between the layers , , now reckoned in wave-lengths in the refractive fluid , is increased , and therefore also the wave-length which is reflected for a given angle of incidence .
At the same time the intensity of the reflected light is greatly reduced , and , if the fluid has the same refractive index as the structure itself , reflection ceases and nearly white light is transmitted.* * The dispersion of the fluid , as well as the refractive index , must be the same as that of the structure if the transmitted light is white .
Mr. A. Mallock .
[ Sept. 12 , Observation of reflection from films of aniline dyes , etc. , shows that the colour changes in the same direction , that is towards the blue , as the angle of incidence increases , but as regards the character of the change when the film is covered by a refractive fluid there is a great difference .
In some cases ( methylene green for instance ) for one particular angle of incidence the colour reflected in air is unchanged when the film is covered with cedar oil , for smaller angles of incidence the reflected light is of shorter average wave-length , and for greater angles longer than that of the colour in air .
For this particular dye the colour reflected in air is a very red-purple at small angles of incidence , changing to bluish-green when the angle is large .
Under cedar oil the colours are respectively greenish-yellow and an orange-yellow .
The transmitted colour , however , does not change perceptibly either with the angle of incidence or with the medium in which reflection takes place , and this applies , as far as my observation goes , to all substances which give selective metallic reflection .
The transparency or , at any rate , the vanishing of the characteristic transmitted colour in the case of all animal tissues when immersed and permeated by a fluid of the same refractive index is strongly in favour of interference being the source of the colour , but even stronger evidence is given by the behaviour of the structures under mechanical pressure .
If the grain or peculiarities which favour the reflection or transmission of particular colours is of molecular size , there is no reason to suppose that pressure insufficient to cause molecular disruption would alter the action of the material on light .
On the other hand , if the colours are due to interference , that is to cavities or strata of different optical properties , compression would alter the spacing of these , and thus give rise either to different colours or , with more than a very slight compression , to the transmission and reflection of white light .
In every experiment of this kind which I have made either on feathers or insect scales the effect of pressure has been to destroy the colour altogether .
Where the scales are transparent white light is transmitted , but with feathers , where the colour film is generally backed by dark pigment , the pigment colour appears untinged with the complementary to the colour naturally reflected .
With many feathers the colour returns when the pressure is taken off , but with insect scales the structure seems to be permanently injured by .compression , and though when allowed to expand again the material is not 1911 .
] Note on the Iridescent Colours of Birds and Insects .
603 .colourless the brilliancy which belonged to the uninjured scale is gone , and the colour in general changed .
The facts above mentioned seem to offer stronger reasons in favour of interference than the polarisation phenomena referred to by Michelson and Walter* do against it .
The ellipticity , etc. , found in the reflected beams may , although functions of the wave-length , accompany the production of colour without being necessary to it , that is , they may depend on the molecular while the colours depend on the mechanical structure .
All Lepidopterous scales , whether coloured by pigment or giving metallic reflection , are traversed by a series of fine lines or dots arranged in lines and very evenly spaced , and the universality of these lines on all such scales , whether with or without colour , is a good reason for not regarding diffraction as an explanation of the metallic colours .
In many insects these lines are as close as 36,000 to 40,000 per inch , and when light is transmitted through a single scale or a few scales placed side by side , very fine diffraction spectra are formed , but no corresponding effect is seen by reflection , what effect there may be being masked by the other form of colour production .
The beetle scales which I have examined were , as a rule , without linear markings , and where lines existed they were not very regular .
The surface was always mapped out into unequal polygonal areas , and a cross section { Plate 11 , fig. 5 ) showed that the scale consisted of a flattened sac of transparent material containing a cellular structure in which the colour originated , When an unbroken scale is immersed in cedar oil , the outer walls prevent the fluid reaching the colour-producing layer and but little change results either in the reflected or transmitted light , but when the scale is broken or has a piece cut off the oil penetrates the interior and all trace of colour disappears .
Occasionally when a viscous fluid is employed the penetration is not complete and the character of the cellular layer is then indicated by the parts which still show colour .
Figs. 1 to 4 , Plate 11 , illustrate this .
Fig. 1 is an unbroken scale of Entimus imperialis showing the polygonal areas .
Fig. 2 shows the same scale partly penetrated by a solution of celluloid in amyl acetate .
Fig. 3 , ditto ( in which the penetration is not so complete ) more highly magnified .
Fig. 4 , three .scales completely penetrated and quite colourless .
Fig. 5 is a cross-section of the scale ( thickness of section about 1/ 20,000 of an inch ) .
Feathers are impermeable to most fluids , but when acted on by acid ( nitric , * Polarbel light should be used for this observation .
604 Mr. A. Mallock .
[ Sept. 12 , acetic , or hydrochloric ) they change colour towards the red ; after washing and drying , however , they regain their original tint .
The subjects from which the above notes have been made include among birds , various species of humming-birds , peacocks and pheasants , sun-birds , trogons and others ; among Lepidoptera , the genera Euplcea , Morpho , Calligo , Argynnis ( in which silver markings are common ) , Yanessa , Callicore , Lycsena , Thecla , Papilio , Ornithoptera , some of the Hesperidse and moths of the genus Urania .
The only beetles examined were Entimus impericdis and two species of Cyphus .
To the physicist who is also a naturalist , the great variety in the character of the surfaces on which these metallic colours are developed , as well as the beauty and brilliancy of the colours themselves , offers matter of exceptional interest , but it would occupy too much space to enter here into a detailed description of even the typical forms .
A rather curious fact , however , may be mentioned with regard to the scales of Lepidoptera .
Nearly all such scales when black or coloured by pigment have the free end deeply scalloped and presenting what may be called an ornamental outline , but the scales which show metallic reflections are invariably ( as far as my observation goes ) merely rounded off or have very slight indentations .
Figs. 6 and 7 ( which are respectively coloured and black scales from Ornithoptera Poseidon ) illustrate the difference .
Although all the colours referred to in these notes are probably the result of interference , the ways in which the interference occurs may be very various .
Feathers , by their behaviour , suggest an action analogous to that of a Lippmann film , but it is difficult to imagine matter optically dense enough to behave as the silver particles in the film being produced in an organic structure .
In most of the scales it seems that the interfering rays are reflected from the surfaces of very thin flat cells , but it is possible that , in some cases , the effect may be due to reflection from a single dimpled surface .
The coloured central images sometimes given by diffraction gratings are examples of this sort of interference , but in order chat the colours so formed should be as brilliant as possible the depressions or dimples should be closely but irregularly distributed over the surface ( if regular much of the light goes in lateral spectra ) , but of uniform depth and section .
I have succeeded in making coloured rings of some brilliancy by holding a piece of glass over the smoke of an arc formed between metal electrodes , iron , nickel , silver and copper being used .
In the most successful trials the rings were brighter than the colours of soap films , and , as might be expected , the intensity of the colour increased with the angle of incidence , but the rings did not show with normal reflection , nor until the incidence exceeded 30 ' .
Mallock .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. A , vol. 85 , 6 .
4 .
I. 1911 .
] Note on the Iridescent Colours of Birds and Insects .
605 In the spectroscopic examination of the colour , it was found convenient to focus the much enlarged image of the surface on the slit of the spectroscope .
By this means , and using the sun or an arc lamp , there was sufficient light to show the spectrum from a small part of a single scale .
When cutting thin sections of chitin or feathers it is important that the embedding material should be of the same consistence and hardness as the object to be cut .
For this purpose shellac gave the best results .
The hardness could be regulated by the time allowed for drying .
The compression tests were carried out by placing the specimens on a slide under a convex lens of about a foot radius .
The objects compressed were generally thin enough to allow of the Newton rings of the higher orders being recognised between the lens and slide before any compression occurred , and by centering the object in these the pressure could be applied in the right place .
Since writing the above , I have examined the colours of some of the iridescent Diptera ( chiefly of the genus Lucilia ) , using the pressure apparatus .
It was found that with them , as with the scales and feathers , the colour disappeared under compression , and it seems probable , therefore , that interference of one kind or another is the true cause of natural iridescent colour in all cases .
It may be remarked that the intensity and composition of the light reflected from the integument of the flies is such as would be accounted for by the interference of a single film or pair of surfaces .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Scale of Entimus imperial is .
X490 .
' Fig. 2.\#151 ; The same partly permeated with celluloid solution , x 490 .
Pig .
3.\#151 ; The same , x 1750 . .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Three scales of same completely permeated , x 490 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Cross-section of scale , x 1750 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Iridescent scale of Omit hotter a Poseidon , x i 170 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Black scale of same , x 1170 .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; A.

