" On the Appendicular Skeleton of the Primates .
" By ST .
GEOaGE MIVART , F.Z.S. , Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at St. Mary 's Hospital .
Communicated by Prof. HUXLEY..Received November 22 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The author began by mentioning the principal variations found in the order Primates , as to the absolute and relative length of the pectoral limb with and without the manus ; and then taking each bone separately , described the modifications undergone by each in all the genera of the order* ; as also the relative size of the segments and bones of the limb compared to each other and to the spine .
The pelvic limb was then similarly treated of , and , in addition , its segments and bones were compared with the homotypal segments and bones of the pectoral limb .
The author after this reconsidered the question as to the use of the terms " hand " and " foot , " and the applicability of the term " Quadrumanous " to Apes and Lemuroids .
He controverted the position lately assumed by Dr. Lucaet , that both anatomically and physiologically the pes of apes is more like the human hand than the human foot .
At the same time he recommended the use of unambiguous homological terms , such as " manus " and " pes " ( already adopted by some ) instead of " hand " and " foot , " in all treatises on comparative anatomy .
Tables of the dimensions and proportions of the limbs , their segments , and bones were then given , exhibiting the variations presented in these respects throughout the whole series of genera .
The author then considered the more peculiar forms of the order , beginning with Man .
The principal resemblances and differences in form , size , and proportion between the human appendicular skeleton and that of other primates were given in detail , followed by a list of those points in which man differs , as to the bony structure of his limbs , from all other primates .
The limb-skeletons of the Orang , Marmoset , Indri , Slender Lemur , Tarsier , and Aye-aye were then similarly reviewed , and lists given of the absolute peculiarities found in each .
The conclusion arrived at from these comparisons was , that Man differs less from the higher Apes than do certain primates below him from each Except certain Lemuroids , of which no specimens exist in this country .
t Abhandlungen von der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft .
Frankfort , 1865 , vol. .
p. 275 .
other ; and that he , thus judged , evidently takes his place amongst the members of the suborder Anthropoidea .
A list of the principal osteological variations presented by the several groups and genera of the order , before unmentioned , was then given ; and the author concluded by stating what he believed to be the degrees of affinity existing between the various forms , as far as could be ascertained from the consideration of the appendicular skeleton exclusively .

