I. " Researches on certain Ethhylphosphates .
" By ARTHUR HERBERT CHuptCH , M.A. Oxon .
, Professor of Chemistry , Royal Agricultural College , Cirencester .
Communicated by A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , LL. D. Received October 21 , 1864 .
The constitution , properties , and derivatives of the so-called conjugated sulphurous and sulphuric acids have been made the subject of numerous researches , and have led , in the hands of Gerhardt and others , to very initeresting results .
I have examined at different times several members * On the Benzole Series , Parts 1 &amp; 2 .
Phil. gag .
April and June 1855 .
On the Spontaneous Decoxnposition of certain SLiulphoiuethylates .
Phil. Mag. July 1855 .
On the Action of X ater upon certailn Sulphomethylates .
Phil. Mag. Jan. , 1856 .
On Parabensole , Parts 1 &amp; 2e Phil , Mag. June 1857 , and Dec 1859 , of the methylsulphuric , phenylsulphurous , nitrophenylsulphous and other series , but have lately turned my attention to the analogous compounds of the phosphoric series .
Some remarkable substances have been thus made , their constitution seeming to have a direct bearing upon the importan ; question of the atomicity and equivalency of certain of the metallic elements .
Several substances might have served as starting-points for these new inquiries .
A curious compound , phenylphosphoric acid , C616 H12 PO , was prepared ; but its instability , and the oxidation to which it and its salts are liable , rendered it unsuited for the present purpose .
I intend to describe in the present paper but one series of salts , formed from Pelouze 's ethylphosphoric acid , C2 H5 11t PO , .
This compound , containing two atoms of easily replaceable hydrogen , appeared admirably adapted for the purpose in view .
It is readily prepared by digesting ( for 48 hours ) finely crushed glacial phosphoric acid with alcohol of 90 per cent. C2 I-5 }o +1 HPO= 2I 1 P04 .
From the ethylphosphoric acid thus formed the barium salt was prepared in large quantity and of perfect purity .
This compoiund , C2115 , Ba2 , P04 +61120 , is remarkable for being less soluble in boiling water than in water at 70 ?
C. , or even at 15 ?
-a characteristic property of several other ethylphosphates .
Boiling water , in fact , affects this barium salt in a peculiar manner .
If to its boiling saturated solution a quantity of the ordinary crystallized salt be added , the crystals instantly assume a pearly aspect , and are found , after having been filtered off , washed once with boiling water , and dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , to have lost 51H20 , and thus to have the formula C2 H5 , Ba2 , P04+ Aq .
They thus colntain the proportion of water found in the majority of the ethylphosphates .
When , on the other hand , cold water is poured on these crystals , or on the salt dried at 1000 , the lost water is regained , the nacreous aspect of the dried salt disappears , while a great increase in its bulk occurs .
From the barium salt the lead and silver compounds are readily made .
To a solution of ethylphosphate of barium nearly saturated at 70 ?
, acetate of lead or nitrate of silver is added in slight excess , the liquid allowed to cool and then filtered .
The collected precipitate is to be washed with cold water .
The lead salt may be obtained anhydrous by heating it to 130 ?
-1500 : it is almost insoluble in cold water , but is slightly soluble in hot water , from which it may be crystallized .
The silver salt dissolves to some extent in hot water , and separates in pearly plates as the liquid cools .
It is blackened , especially when moist , on exposure to daylight .
Dried in * The following are the atomic weights adopted:-C(=12 , O=16 , Hg=200 ; I have provisionally retained for Ag , Ba , Pb , &amp; e. the lower , atomic weighis tiu , lately in general use .
2R the water-oven , it retains one atom of water of crystallization , and has the formula C2 H5 Ag2 PO + Aq .
It was chiefly by double decomposition with the barium , lead , and silver salts that the compournds presently to be described were formed .
The perfect purity of the substances used was established by rigorous experimenit ; a silver-determination , for instance , in the argentic ethylphosphate used in many of the reactions to be detailed further on , gale the following numbers : 10-27 grains of the salt dried at 1)000 C. gave 8 22 grains of Ag Cl. This result corresponds to 60 24 per cent of Ag , while the percentage required by the formila C2 11 , Ag2 , PO , ?
Aq is 6033 .
The other analyses were equally satisfactory .
I give , in the present communication , a selection of the most interesting of the numerous results obtained during the course of my experimental inquiry .
Many points of departure for other researches have occurredthe investigation , for example , of the products , volatile and fixed , of the destructive distillation of the ethylphosphates , and the determination of the varying amount of water of crystallization in several of the salts prepared .
I may cite the barium salts as illustrations .
Not only do the salts already mentionied exist , namely onie containing 6 Aq and the other 1 Aq , but a third compound may be obtained by evaporating at about 500 or 600 C. a saturated solution of the ordinary barium salt , and filtering off the deposited crystals rapidly .
The slender pearly plates thus formed are perfectly definite and constant in composition ; they probably consist of equal equivalents of the two former salts .
Analysis gave the following numbers 7 04 grains gave 5.01 grains of Ba2 SO .
12 88 grains lost at 130 ?
C. 25 grains of II2 0 .
These results correspon-d to 41P85 per cent. of Ba , and l 9A407 per cenlt .
of TI 0 ; the formula 2 ( C2 H. Ba2 POL ) +7 Aq demands 42 28 per cent. of Ba , and 19-44 per cent. of 112 0 .
Ferric Ethylphovphate.-Equivalent proportions of argentic ethylphosphate and pure crystallized anhydrous ferric chloride were weig , head out .
The silver salt was mixed with some quantity of hot water , and the ferric chloride , previously dissolved in hot water , then added , the liquid being kept warm for some time .
Oni filtering , a pale yellow liquid was obtained which contained no silver , and the merest trace of chlorine .
On heating this liquid to the boiling-point , pale straw-yellow films separated from it : a quantity of these was collected , washed with cold water and with alcohol , and , after having beendried in the water-oven , analyzed with the following results : I. *6 ] 15 grm. of the ferric salt gave on combustion with chromate of lead *296 grm. of CO2 and *22 grm. of 112 0 .
1I .
*475 grm. gave These numbers correspond to the formula ( C2 11 ) , Fe4 3 PG4 ?
3 Aq , as may be seen in the comparison given below of the theoretical and experimental percentages .
Theory .
Experiment .
~~ &gt; I. II~~~ .
III .
IV .
C6 ... .
72 13-38 13-19 1121 ... .
21 3-91 3-92 Fe4 ... .
112 20 82 20-82 20 56 P3 ... .
93 17-28 1728 015 240 44*61 538 1)00-00 In analysis V. 1017 per cent. of water were lost by drying the air-dried salt at 150 ?
: the formula above given requires 10-03 per cent. If we allow the formula fe Cl to express the molecule of ferric chloride , giving to 28x2 the iron in it the atomic weight 28=3 18-67 , then the ferric ethylphos3 phate may be writteni C211 5 fe ' P04+Aq .
fe ' J Few chemists wouLlcl now admit such an expression to be alnything more than what may be termed an equivalent formula , comparable with that of ethylphosphoric acid itself , yet represeniting onie-third only of the true atomic weight of the iron comIpound .
It may , however , be worth while to consider whether there be any modle of arriving at a decision concerning the formula of the ferric ethylphosphate-whether the above simple ex. pression be admissible , or the more complex form ( C2 115 ) 3 Fe'Fe ' V3 P04 +3 Aq .
FeIV l Fel .
Vj It appeared to me that , if the latter expression be the true one , we ought to be able to replace l-th or Alths of the iron present by another metal : if the simpler formula be correct , then any other replacement but that of 2 would be impossible , unless indeed we suppose that the very chemical 2 process made use of to effect the replacement causes a coalescence of three atoms of the original salt , in order that one more complex atom of the new mixed compound may be thereby constructed .
With this object in view , several experiments were devised .
A solution saturated at 60 ' and containing a known proportion of ferric and aluminic ethylphosphates was brought to the boiling-point , and the salt thus separated removed by filtration .
In other cases absolute alcohol was added to the warm concentrated solution till a part only , often but a small part , of the salt was precipitated .
By these methods , and by the action of mixed ferric and alurminic chlorides upon argentic ethylphosphate , several salts were obtained of constant as well as of definite composition .
For in the majority of experiments where the same or slightly varied proportions were employed , the same compound was obtained , even where but a very small portion of the new compound , compared with the quantity formed , was allowed to separate or be precipitated .
This observation applies to the salts obtained by ebullition and evaporation , by precipitation with alcohol , and by the action of the mixed ferric and aluminic chlorides upon the argentic ethylphosphate .
When the proportion of aluminium to iron in the mixed ethylphosphates ranged near the ratio 1317 : 84 , the salt first formed gave on analysis results corresponding to the formula ( C2 H5)3 Fe3 3P04+3Aq .
Al J In an analysis where both Al and Fe were determined , the following results were obtained : 1P056 grm. gave *241 grm. Fe4 03 , and *0515 grm. A14 03 .
A comparison of these results with theory givesTheory .
Experiment .
Percentage of Fe ... .
16-04 15'97 Percentage of Al ... 2'62 2'51 When the ratio 27'4 : 56 was attained , there was no difficulty in obtain ing a salt having the formula ( C2 H5)3 Fe2 3 P04+3 Aq .
A12 ) In one analysis '83 grm. gave *1305 grm. Fe4 03 , and *081 grm. A14 03 .
A comparison of these results with theory givesTheory .
Experiment .
Percentage of Fe ... .
11'18 1101 Percentage of Al ... 5'38 5'21 But on further increasing the proportion of aluminium to iron up to 41-1 : 28 , no other definite compound could be obtained , though the salt ( C2 115)3 .
) Fe 3PO4+3Aq A13 ) might be reasonably supposed to exist .
Yet the two compounds obtained , if from their constancy of composition when prepared in diverse manners ( volumetric determinations of iron in both salts were made with nearly the same results as those just given ) I am justified in deeming them definlite salts , not mixtures , may lead one to conclude the formula for the ferric ethylphosphate fe PO,4+Aq feJ inadmissible , and the expression ( C2 5)3 } 3PO4+3Aq correct , since we can replace not half only of its iron , but one-fourth also by aluminium-a replacement manifestly impossible with the simpler expression .
I am submitting this matter to further scrutiny by an investigation of the mineral phosphates containing not only aluminium and iron , but also calcium &amp;c. The higher atomic weights of iron still remain to be considered in connexion with these complex salts .
If the atom of ferricum be triatomic and therefore =:56 , then the normal ferric ethylphosphate already described is readily represented thus , ( C2 H1)3 1 Fel ' 3 P04 +3 Aq , a compound which equally well admits the expression ( C0H11)3 } 3PO+3Aq , where Ffe=112 .
But with the mixed ferric-aluminic ethylphosphates the case is altered .
The compound ( C2H05)3AlFe23PO4+3Aq allows us indeed to assume the triatomicity of ferricum and aluminium , ( 2 115)3 Fe " ' 3PO+3Aq , Al " ' J though excluding the supposed hexatomic value of these metals ; while the other salt described , ( CH , ) , , Fe , , A1 , 3PO4+3Aq , does not allow their triatomicity even ; we return in fact to the oldest view , where Fe= 28 , and is sesqulatomic .
Ferroso-ferric Ethylphosphate.-By acting upon a warm saturated solution of basic ethylphosphate with a solution of mixed ferrous and ferric sulphates , filtering rapidly , and adding to the filtrate strong alcohol till a precipitate begins to separate , a solution is obtained which , after filtration and standing , soon deposits a greenish-white precipitate , slightly crystalline .
This salt is constant in composition when prepared under rather widely varied conditions ; but if in its preparation the ferric salt preponderate , the normal ferric ethylphosphate will be first precipitated .
Perhaps a better way of preparing the new compound than that above given consists ill warming a strong solution of ethylphosphoric acid with ferrous hydrate , filtering and adding strong alcohol .
The precipitate produced by either method is to be washed with weak alcohol , and dried as rapidly as possible in vacuo over sulphuric acid .
It contains iron in both conditions , and gave results , according to the subjoined analytical details , agreeing with the formula ( C2 115)3 FeIv F3 PO &gt; +3 Aq .
Fe,3 An identical compound may also be obtained by following the several plalns adopted in preparing the ferric ethylphosphate ; it is , however , very diff-icult to prevent a partial oxidation of the ferrosum in the salt .
It will be noted that the atomic weight 28 is indicated by the colnstitution of this compound .
In order to analyze the ferroso-ferric ethylphosphate , the following methods were adopted .
In a preliminary examination of the salt it was found that strong mineral acids did not effect the separation of phosphoric acid from it : it was also seen that its acid solution gave the ordinary reactions of both conditions of iron .
For analysis a weighed amount of the salt was dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid , and the amount of standard permanganate solution decolorized by it ascertained ; this gave the amount of ferrosum in the salt taken .
A second experiment was then made , in which the total amount of iron in both forms was determined by permanganate after reduction of the sulphuric solution with pure zinc ; the difference between the two percentage results gave the percentage of iron existing as ferricum in the original compound .
The numbers thus obtained were on the whole satisfactory ; the total amount of iron agreed nearly with that demanded by theory , though the amount of ferrosum in the salt was never less than *5 per cent. below the required proportion .
It was in fact impossible entirely to prevent oxidation of the salt ; but it will be perceived that the ferric oxide thus produced , not being lost , introduced but an inconsiderable error into the determinationis .
Nor did any inconvenience arise from the presence of pliosphovinic acid , which , curiously enough , was found to be without reducing action on the permanganate , even in the presence of sulphuric acid .
The following results were obtairned in the analysis of the ferroso-ferric ethylphosphate .
The ferroso-ferric ethylphosphate was dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid .
In each experiment with the permangaiiate solution *5 gramme of the iron salt was taken .
Each cubic centimetre of the permanganate solution corresponded to -00492 grm. of Fe .
The following are the results obtained by this method of analysis , three different preparations of the ethylphosphate being used : Before reduction of the ( I 14A4 cub. centims. permang .
= -070848 Fe ethylphospbate with IIL 14 2 cub. centims. permang .
= *069864 Fe zinc .
111 .
14 0 cub. centims. permang .
= *06888 Fe LIV .
14A4 cub. centims. permang .
= -070848 Fe After reduction of the V. 25 0 cub. centims. permang .
= 123 Fe ethvlphosphate Y VI .
24 6 cub. centims. permang .
= *121032 Fe The mean of the first four experiments gives 14'022 as the percentage ainount of ferrosum in the compound .
The theory ( C0 11 ) , ( Fe"l')2 ( Fe')3 3PE0+3Aq demands 14 841 .
The mean of the last two experiments gives 24 402 as the total percentage of iron in the compound .
The theoretical percentage is 241745 .
If the experimental mean percentage of ferrosum be deducted from the total mean percentage of iron arrived atby experiment , thus , 24A40214 022=10 38 , the number arrived at gives the percentage of ferricum in the compound ; the formula above given requires 9 894 per cent. : thus the experimenital percentage exceeds the theoretical by *486 per cent.-a small error , considering the very great difficulties attending the manipulation of this easily oxidized salt .
Uranylic ELthylphosphate.-Some pure uranic oxide , Ur 03 .
, was prepared by repeatedly acting onuranic nitrate with alcohol , the pasty 'mixture being heated on a water-bath .
When the separation of the oxide was complete , it was mixed at a temperature of about 60 ?
or 700 with a weak solution of ethylphosphoric acid .
After dilution with hot water and digestion , the solution was filtered and evaporated .
As soon as the boiling-point was attained , the solution almost solidified from the separation of clear yellow gelatinous masses of the niew salt .
These were collected by filtration of the boiling liquid after a portion of the water had evaporated .
Submitted to analysis , they gave resuilts leading to the formula C0 251 UL 1l PO4+ Aq .
This uranic salt thus agrees in constit ' tion with the inorganiic uranic phosphates already known , and lends additional support to P6ligot 's Uranyle theory .
The following list gives the formula of various uranylic phosphates , uranyle being represented by the expression U. 0 U2 0 , 13 PO4 + Aq. .
Monuranic phosphate .
2 U2 0 , 1 , PO 4+3Aq 2 U2 0 , H , P4 +4 Aq Diuranic phosphate .
3 U2 0 , P04 ( ?
) ... Triuranic phosphate .
2 U2 0 , Ca , PO+4Aq ... .
Diurano-calcic phosphate ( lime-uranite ) .
02 115 2 U2 0 , P04 +Aq _ .
Diurano-ethylphosphate .
This new uraniic salt , like many other ethylphosphates , is less soluble in water at 1000 than in water at 600 or 700 .
It separates from its solutions in pale yellow flocks , which dry up in the water-oven into amorphous brittle masses of a bright lemon-yellow colour .
Attempts to replace a portion of the uranyle in this salt by calcium and by silver led to no definite results .
The following are the analyses of the uranylic ethylphosphate dried at 100 ?
: I. 517 grm. gave *106 grm. of C02 and *0835 grin .
of 112 O. II..375 grmi .
gave '254 grm , of protosesquioxide of uranium , U O. III .
-3335 grm. gave 226 grm. of U11 04 IV .
*6645 grm. gave *1735 grm. of Mg4 P2 07 .
V. -I grm dried at 1000 lost at 1500 *044 grm. of H2I 0 These results correspond to the following percentages Theory .
Experiment .
I. II .
III .
IV .
C2 24 5 79 5.59 H7 ... .
7 169 1-79 U4 240 57-97 57.33 57.54 P. 31 7-54 7-29 07 ... .
112 27-01 414 100 00 The loss of water in analysis V. amount:ed to 4a4 per cent. ; the theory C2 115 2U 0 , P04+ Aq requires 4-35 per cent. Alrsenious Ethylphosphate.-The replacement of the basic hydrogen .
of ethylphosphoric acid by such an elemenrt as arsenic appeared to present some features of interest .
The experiment was thus made .
To a weighed quantity of pure arsenious chloride in a small flask , an equivalent quantity of anhydrous ethylphosphate of lead was added ( in one experiment ethylphosphate of silver ) .
The mixture became warm , and after moderate heating solidified .
It was extracted with warm water , and the filtered extract evaporated .
Beautiful feathery .
crystals separated in considerable quantity .
Once crystallized from a solution , they appeared to dissolve less readily a second time in water .
The cause of this phenomenon was soon discovered .
Water gradually decomnposes this salt , giving arsenions anhydride and ethylphosphoric acid .
Although the analysis of the first crop of crystals was tolerably satisfactory , the original method of preparing the compound was abandoned , and another plan adopted .
It was'fouuld that ethylphosphoric acid readily dissolves arseniouLs acid at the boiling-point , and that on heating and evaporating the solution , beautiful crystals of the arsenious ethylphosphate separate .
In order to study this reaction more closely , the experiment was repeated , substituting , however , common orthophosphoric for the ethylphosplhoric .
The arsenious anhydride readily dissolved in considerable quantity on ebullition ; and after filtration and cooling , an abundant crop of brilliant crystals was deposited from the filtrate .
These crvstals were not perceptibly affected by washing with cold water , and proved to be completely volatile when heated in a test-tube over a spirit-lamp .
In fact they were nothing but octahedra of arsenious anhydride .
Further experiments showed that it was not possible in this manner to form an arsenious phosphate ; so that the statement in Gmelin 's Handbook , referring to this salt as probably obtainable by the process above given , would seem to require correction .
The normal arsenious phosphate , As PO , remains to be discovered ; a peculiar interest consequently attaches to the salt now under review , as the only arsenious phosphate known .
Prepared by either of the processes above given , pressed between folds of filtered paper , and dried in vacuto , it gave on analysis numbers very nearly agreeing with the expression ( C2 11),3 3 PO As ' II j 4 The arsenic in the arsenious ethylphosphate was determined as sulphide , the precipitation being effected according to the directions given by Fresenius .
The salt was dried by pressure between folds of filter-paper , it was then placed in vacuo over sulphuric acid , and finally heated for a short time in the water-ovenl .
The arsenious sulphide obtained on its analysis was dried at 1000 C. I. 1P347 grm. gave *639 grm. of As , S , .
II .
*591 grm. gave *29 grm. of As , S3 .
The formula ( C115)3 , As,3PO0 requires 28174 per cent. of arsenic : analysis I. gave 28-95 , while II .
gave 29.58 , the specimen of salt submitted to analysis in the latter case having been partially decomposed by washing , ethylphosphoric acid being thus removed , and consequently an excess of arsenious aiihydride remaining in the residual salt .
The ease with which the arsenious ethylphosphate is formed induced me to hope that similar success would attend experiments made with another triatomnic element , phosphorus .
When an action is established between terchloride of phosphorus and ethylphosphate of silver , an oily product may be removed from the mass by means of anhydrous ether , but it yields on analysis results less definite than could be wished .
Yet the reaction is a promising one : I hope to recur to it shortly , and to experiment in a similar manner with antimony and bismuth compounds .
DitetrethyliacEthylphos.phate .
-The ordinary ethylphosphate of ammnonium is very readily made ; its aqueous solution becomes acid on evaporation , but the salt may be obtained in a semicrystalline form by drying its saturated solution in vacuo over sulphuric acid .
The salt heated carefully in an oil-bath for some time loses ammonia as well as water , but yet appears to yield , among other products , ethylphosphamic acid .
A different and much more definite kind of decomposition takes place with the compound next to be described .
When a hot solution of argentic ethylphosphate is mixed with a solution of iodide of tetrethyliium , a change occurs expressed by the equation C 11 , Ag , PO+ 2 [ ( C , 11)4 NI]-C , H , , [ ( C , H5)4 N ] , P04+ 2Ag I. If the two salts be employed in the exact proportions indicated by this equation , it will be found that after boiling them together the new compound is contained in the filtrate .
On evaporating this liquid first of all at 1000 , and then in vacuo over sulphuric acid , a syrup , and finally a mass of confiused crystals will be obtained ; by long drying , these crystals lose their transparency , most probably because they have thus parted with some of their water of crystallization .
The salt is intensely soluble in cold water , and deliquescent .
The anialyses of this salt were not exact , but corresponded sufficiently with the formula of an ethylphosphoric acid in which two atoms of hydrogen bad been replaced by two atoms of tetrethylium .
This view of its constitution is amply confirmed , not only by the mode in which the salt is prepared , but also by a singular decomposition which it undergoes when heated .
It begins indeed to decompose , though very slightly , at 1000 , eveln when water is present , giving off a distinct odour of triethylamine .
But on heating the salt itself to a temperature exceeding 1000 , decomposition becomes more rapid , and the substance is finally resolved into triethylamine and triethylic phosphate , C2 l5 ) [ ( C2 I15)4 ]2 , P04= ( C2 11)3 P04+2 ( C2 H1 ) N The triethylamine was anialytically identified by a platinum-determination in the double chloride made from it by addition of hydrochloric acid and platinic chloride .
The metamorphosis of this ethylphosphate is perhaps more easily seen by means of the following arrangement of its formula : C2 'T5 02 6H C2 H5 N C2 H5 J 03115 &gt; PQO ' 0 21-15 2 5-S c 2H.5 C2 115 Several ethylphosphates have beeni prepared besides those described in the present paper ; most of these salts , however , presented nio marked features of interest .
The ammonium , niickel , chromic , mercurous , and platinic compounds were investigated more particularly .
The mercurous ethvIphosphate is somewhat difficult to prepare ; it is best made by adding a few drops of mercurous nitrate to a strong solution of potassic ethylphosphate , filtering off the grey precipitate first formed , and then adding a further quantity of the mercurous nitrate in solution ; if the solutions are not too concentrated the salt gradually separates in pearly plates .
I-Hot water partially dissolves this salt , the residue becoming yellow , and the solution acquiring a distinct acid reaction .
It is slightly soluble in cold water , though not altogether without decomposition ; it is insoluble in alcohol .
Dissolved in dilute nitric acid and precipitated by chloride of sodium , the air-dried crystals of this salt gave the following result *236 grm. gave I191 grm. of Hg"t Cl. This corresponds to 71 )09 per cent. of mercuLry ; the formula 0C H3 Hg"2 PO4 +2 Aq requires 71 ?
45 per cent. The more probable formula , C211 5Hg"2 PO4 +Aq , requires 73 82 per cent. In offering the foregoing results to the Society , I do not wish it to be supposed that I consider them conclusive so far as regards the theoretical considerations introduced into the present paper .
It is possible that the various aluminium and iron salts described may be mixtures only , in spite of their apparent constancy of composition ; or , again , it may be that their formaul ought to be doubled or quadrupled .
Moreover the conistitution of ethylphosphoric acid itself has not been made out : I trust that the study of diethyl- , ethylpyro- , and ethylmeta-phosphoric acids , and of the products of the action of heat on the ethylphosphates , may aid in determining this question .
Meanwhile the observation , already recorded , as to the stability of ordinary ethylphosphoric acid and its salts in the presence of permanganate of potassium requires a word or two of further comment .
When argentic diethylphosphate is acted upon with iodine , the silver and one atom of ethyl may be removed , and after treatment with finely divided silver and a little oxide of silver to remove any iodine and , hydriodic acid , and them with excess of carbonate of barium , an ethylphosphate of barium is obtained , which , unlike the ordinary salt , immnediately reduces permanganate of potassium ; perhaps the ethyl in this salt exists in a different and less intimate form of combination .
I am inclined to think that the permanganates will afford , in some cases , criteria for the detection of slight differences in isomeric compounds , although it would be premature at present to hazard an exact interpretation of the phenomena to which they give rise .
I may add that treatment of an ethylphosphate with strong nitric acid fails to decompose the ethylphosphoric acid ; so that phosphoric acid cannot thus be separated from this remarkably stable body .

