Of the Rectification of the Conic Sections .
By the Rev. John Hellins , B.D. F.R.S. and Vicar of Potter's-Pury , in Northamptonshire .
Read July 8 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 448 .
] This , it is to be observed , is only the first part of a more extensive work , and relates merely to the rectification of the hyperbola .
After a few strictures on the necessity of not relaxing in our endeavours to improve the method of fluxions , to which the author asserts few additions have been made since its first discovery by the immortal Newton , he informs us of the circumstances which led him to the present investigation , namely , the occasion he had some years ago to solve a problem which required the rectification of an equilateral hyperbola .
He then enters upon his subject ; and in a first section he investigates in nine theorems the several series which apply to this curve , whose different characters , namely , the ratios of their terms , or rather the rates of their convergency and divergency , depend on the relative proportions of their elements .
Of these series one only , and that not the best , is all that he has hitherto been able to find in other works .
Two are of the form which is called ascending , and six descending .
One of them is of a peculiar form , which can only be understood by turning to the paper .
Among these series , he observes , may always be folnd some which will converge , whether the portion of the hyperbolic arch taken from the vertex be long or short , or of a moderate length ; but the ascending series always differs from the descending one by a constant quantity .
In a second section the author treats of the methods of computing the values of the constant quantities , by which the ascending series differ from the descending ones .
Here he has recourse to two methods , of which he has already given an illustration in his Mathematical Essays : the one by computing the value of both an ascending and descending series , taking for the ordinate to the axis some small definite quantity ; and the other by comparing the values of those series together , when the ordinate is taken immensely great .
The former method he says is more general ; but the latter , when it can be applied , usually affords the easiest computation .
In the third section are given five examples , which show the use of these theorems , as well as the manner of choosing such as are best adapted to any particular case .
In one of these the author corrects an error in the length of a large arch of an equilateral hyperbola , which was first published in the year 1771 , and has been since reprinted by some eminent mathematicians .
Lastly , he concludes with some remarks on former writers , and takes notice of the defects of two series given by the late Dr. Waring for the rectification of an hyperbola .

