165 877 .
] Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
j " Researches on Emeralds and Beryls.\#151 ; Part II .
On some of the Processes employed in the Analysis of Emeralds and Beryls .
" By Greville Williams , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1877 .
While analyzing the beryl " A " from Ireland , frequently mentioned n the first part of this investigation* , so many unexpected phenomena )resented themselves that it was found necessary to study carefully all ; he processes which have been published for the separation of glucina rom alumina .
On consulting the numerous papers on the subject , t became apparent that a wide difference of opinion existed among shemists as to the best method of working .
Among the eleven or twelve nethods which have been proposed for the purpose , there are three ivhich have been especially employed in the most important researches .
[ place these below , and under each heading will be found the names of some of the chemists who have used the process , the first in each case I being that of the inventor .
Carbonate of ammonium .
Vauquelin. .
1798 .
Klaproth . .
1801 .
Lewy ... ... ..1857 .
Hofmeister .
1859 .
Hydrate of potassium .
Vauquelin ... .
1798 .
C. G. Gmelin. .
1840 .
Awdejew ... .
1843 .
Damour ... ... 1843 .
Ebelmen ... ... .1848 .
Chloride of ammonium .
Berzelius. .
1812 .
Weeren ..1854 .
The following pages are devoted to a study of the first of these , namely , the carbonate-of-ammonium process .
The first chemist to take advantage* of the solubility of glucina in carbonate of ammonium , as a means of separating it from alumina , was Vauquelin , who , in his earliest memoir on the beryl , in which he announces the discovery of glucina f , mentions the fact of its solubility in a solution of carbonate of ammonium ; but at that time he separated the two earths by converting the alumina into alum and removing the latter )(S by crystallization .
The small proportion of alumina remaining was M separated by taking advantage of its solubility in a solution of hydrate of potassium even when heated , whereas , under these circumstances , m glueina is precipitated\#151 ; Vauquelin thus distinctly being the first to use the process now called Gmelin's.- In Vauquelin 's second memoir , published in the same volume of the 4 Annales de Chimie , ' he employed carbonate of ammonium for the purpose of separating the two earths .
The various chemists who followed this process for many years after Vauquelin 's time appear to have used it in its simplest form , the directions * Proc. Royal Society , No. 145 , 1873 .
t Ann. de Ch. xxvi .
1798 .
The name of this journal has since been modified .
Mr. G- .
Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ Apr. 26 , given by Bose* ( whose name is generally , but incorrectly , given to the method ) being merely to use a sufficiently large quantity of the carbonate .
He admits that a little alumina is dissolved at the same time .
Wohler + directs the solution of the two earths to be dropped very gradually with constant stirring into an excess of a warm concentrated solution of carbonate of ammonium , which precipitates the alumina and dissolves the glucina .
That one extraction with carbonate of ammonium is quite insufficient will be seen from the following experiments and considerations .
The mixed earths ( glucina and alumina ) from 2*3217 grammes of the beryl A were precipitated by ammonium hydrate and ammonium sulphide , and allowed to stand all night in a large excess of carbonate of ammonium ; the resulting glucina weighed 0*1806 gramme , or only 7*78 per cent , on the beryl , whereas three more extractions raised the percentage of glucina to 11*55 J. Again , a mixture was taken of 0*2640 gramme of glucina and 0*8520 of alumina , the percentage being:\#151 ; Alumina .
... ... ... . .
76*34 Gflucina ... ... ... ... 23*66 100*00 The mixture was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , neutralized with carbonate of ammonium , and digested for twenty-four hours with 95 cub. centims. of a saturated solution of carbonate of ammonium ( sp. gr. 1*080 at 15 ' C. ) , or 8*5 cub. centims. for each decigramme of the mixed earths .
On acidifying the filtered solution with hydrochloric acid , and precipitating with ammonium hydrate and ammonium sulphide , only 12*75 per cent , of glucina was obtained instead of 23*66 .
But it might be said that the deficiency in the glucina in the experiment quoted arose from the use of an insufficient quantity of carbonate-of-ammonium solution .
To settle this point definitely the following experiments were made:\#151 ; Experiment I.\#151 ; 0*1960 gramme of glucina and 0*1812 gramme of alumina were dissolved in hydrochloric acid , neutralized by ammonia , and treated with 100 cub. centims. of carbonate-of-ammonium solution .
This is at the rate of about 27 cub. centims. for each decigramme of the mixed earths .
A temperature of 65 ' C. was kept up for five and a half hours , the exit-tube of the flask being closed with a mercurial valve .
It was found that a pressure of three inches of mercury was sufficient to prevent the escape of vapour at the temperature stated .
The solution was * Rose 's Chem. Anal. Translated by Normandy , ii .
p. 58 .
1849 .
t Handbook of Inorganic Analysis , 1854 .
1 I have much pleasure in acknowledging the skill and accuracy with which some of these fractional extractions were performed by my friend Mr. Raphael Meldola , who was my assistant at that time .
$77.1 Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
167 lowed to stand in the cold for fifteen hours longer , and was then Itered .
The alumina , after being well washed , dried , and ignited , eighed 0*2089 gramme .
Composition of Found after one extraction mixture .
at 65 ' C. Glucina .
.51*96 Alumina . .
48*04 ... ... ... . .
55*38 100*00 r 7*34 per cent , in excess .
It was now determined to make one more experiment with double the uantity of carbonate of ammonium used in the last experiment .
Experiment II.\#151 ; 0*1945 gramme of glucina and 0*1862 gramme of blumina were dissolved and treated in the cold for twenty hours with 100 cub. centims. of the carbonate-of-ammonium solution .
This was at he rate of 52 cub. centims. for each decigramme of the mixed earths .
Composition of Found after mixture .
one extraction .
Glucina . .
51*09 Alumina . .
48*91 ... ... ... ... ... .
55*69 100*00 or 6*78 per cent , in excess .
It is not surprising , therefore , after seeing the results of one extraction under such varied conditions , that Damour* , who tried the carbonate-of-ammonium process in its original form , in his important investigation of chrysoberyl , rejected it in favour of Gmelin 's process , on the ground that it failed to extract more than 12 out of the 19*75 per cent , of glucina contained in that mineral .
Damour , however , obtained more than 1 per cent , less glucina in proportion than was obtained in the first experiment quoted above .
The two results are , nevertheless , remarkably close , and confirm the assertion that one treatment with carbonate of ammonium conducted in the manner described is quite inadequate to extract all the glucina from a mixture of the two earths .
Joyt , in opposition to Damour , condemns Gmelin 's process as giving in his hands too low a percentage of glucina in spite of every precaution .
WeerenJ , who followed Berzelius 's method , condemns the carbonate-of-ammonium process on exactly the opposite ground to Damour , namely , because although alumina per se is , he says , insoluble in carbonate of ammonium , it is soluble in the presence of glucina , and thus gives too high a number for the latter .
I admit that alumina , under certain cir-* Ann. Oh .
Phys. [ 3 ] vii .
p. 173 ( 1843 ) .
t American Journal of Science and Arts , xxxvi .
p. 83 ( 18b3 ) .
This interesting paper contains an invaluable list of memoirs on all subjects connected with the minerals which contain glucina .
t Pogg .
Ann. xcii .
p. 91 ( 18*54 ) .
168 Mr , G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ Apr. 26 cumstances , dissolves in presence of glucina ; but I shall show further on that the fact does not prevent fairly accurate results being obtained if certain precautions be observed .
This tendency of the earths , when mixed , to modify each other 's reactions is seen also in their behaviour with carbonate of barium .
I have , however , never found the carbonate-of-ammonium process to give too high a number for the glucina , for reasons which are fully discussed further on .
Hofmeister who has made more important and elaborate observations on the carbonate-of-ammonium process than any other chemist , condemns Gmelin 's process on the ground that in the treatment with potassium hydrate alumina accompanies the glucinaf .
He also endorses the statement of Weeren and others , that alumina is soluble in carbonate of ammonium in presence of glucina , but shows that this circumstance is not fatal to the process if a systematic fractional treatment is employed .
Hofmeister admits that his method is not easy to describe ; and , in fact , it is so operose that the reader must be referred to the original memoir for the details .
There can be no doubt that when carefully followed it affords reliable results .
I shall endeavour to show further on that the carbonate-of-ammonium process is capable of yielding accurate numbers when employed in a simpler manner .
From what has been said , it will readily be seen that the two processes I have alluded to are condemned by different experimenters on diametrically opposite grounds ; and it seems to me that , as is usually the case under such circumstances , the whole question resolves itself into one of manipulation .
This being assumed , it became necessary ( in order to ascertain the causes of the conflicting statements of the numerous chemists who have subjected emeralds and beryls to analysis ) to make a rigorous examination of the behaviour of glucina with solution of carbonate of ammonium .
This has entailed much work , as I have taken most of the statements of the chemists who have worked on the subject and examined them carefully and repeatedly by experiment .
The following are the principal questions or problems which I have endeavoured to solve:\#151 ; 1 .
Is glucina permanently soluble in a solution of carbonate of ammonium ?
2 .
Does glucina confer its solubility on alumina ?
or does alumina confer its insolubility on glucina ?
3 .
With what amount of accuracy can a mixture of glucina and alumina be separated by means of carbonate of ammonium ?
4 .
How do solutions of glucina and alumina behave with carbonate of barium ?
* * Journ. fiir prakt .
Chem. lxxvi .
p. 1 .
t I have confirmed this observation .
577 ' .
] Mr. G. 'Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
169 Is Glucina permanently soluble in a solution of Carbonate of Ammonium ?
This question is of paramount importance , because if glucina once ssolved in carbonate of ammonium is liable to assume an insoluble con-tion and separate from the solution , it introduces a complication into e process , the effect of which it is difficult to estimate .
The only lemist , as far as I am aware , who asserts that glucina separates out ider the'circumstances named is Joy* , who states that " If the solu-on be kept longer than ten days a precipitate of carbonate of glucina ill begin to form , and at the expiration of sixteen days 15 per cent , ss of the original amount will go ( sic ) into solution .
" This assertion ?
Joy 's caused me some perplexity at first , as I had during many years speatedly dissolved glucina in solution of carbonate of ammonium , but had never observed a deposit to take place unless I had reason to sus-\#187 ; xt the presence of alumina .
I therefore resolved to submit pure glucina ad mixtures of that earth with alumina to repeated quantitative ex-eriments , with the view of deciding the question .
Experiment I.\#151 ; 0-6943 gramme of glucina , which had already been artially purified by solution in carbonate of ammonium , was dissolved i hydrochloric acidj ammonium hydrate was then dropped in until the olution was very nearly neutral , and 138 cub. centims. of solution of arbonate of ammonium were added f. At first nearly every thing was issolved , but a precipitate soon commenced to form .
This is quite haracteristic of the presence of alumina .
The solution was filtered next ay , and the precipitate was collected , washed , dried , and burnt with all he usual precautions .
The weight of the alumina was 0-0058 gramme , \gt ; r 0-84 per cent , on the glucina taken .
The solution was put aside in a veil- stoppered bottle , as I intended to filter it in sixteen days ; but as much more than that time passed without a precipitate forming , it was \gt ; ut carefully away for three years .
At the end of this time the bottle , \gt ; n being shaken , showed a barely perceptible trace of deposit ; neverthe-ess it was filtered off with every precaution and was found to weigh \gt ; .0038 gramme , or 0-55 per cent. ; and this was probably partly alumina md partly silicate , arising from a slight decomposition which had taken place of the glass of the bottle .
Experiment II.\#151 ; 0-2140 gramme of the glucina which had remained three years in solution was next experimented on .
The , earth was dissolved and treated as before with 50 cub. centims. of carbonate-of-ammo-nium solution .
In ten minutes after being well agitated all but a few imponderable flocks were dissolved .
In fifty minutes they were scarcely visible .
Two days after , they had totally disappeared .
In 16 days , the period at which Joy says 15 per cent , less of the glucina will remain in solution , the liquid was filtered and yielded 0-0023 gramme of precipi* Log. cit.p .
89 .
t The solution of carbonate of ammonium used in these experiments was always of the same strength , i. e. a cold saturated solution , sp. gr. 1-080 .
170 Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ Apr. 26 tate , or 1-07 per cent. , a quantity which might partly arise from insufficient washing , partly from a variation from the mean weight in tfo filter ash , and also from a trace of alumina .
Experiment III.\#151 ; 0*1603 gramme of glucina , known to contain a litth alumina , was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , neutralized as usual , and treated with 50 cub. centims. of solution of carbonate of ammonium .
Th\lt ; residue of alumina weighed 0*0071 .
In two days 0*0067 gramme mort was obtained .
On filtering 16 days afterwards only 0*0017 gramme , or 1*06 per cent. , was obtained .
In one year after that time the solution was again filtered , the deposit weighed 0*0012 gramme , oi 0*75 per cent. , being only one third of the weight of the ash of one filter paper .
Experiment IV.\#151 ; 0*3846 gramme of pure glucina was treated in the usual manner with 80 cub. centims. of carbonate-of-ammonium solution , The whole dissolved perfectly in a few minutes .
The solution was kepi for three weeks and then filtered .
The precipitate weighed 0*0003 gramme , or 0*08 per cent. , after deducting the filter ash .
If it were necessary these examples could be multiplied ; but they seem amply sufficient to enable an answer to be given to the question at the head of this section .
We may therefore affirm unhesitatingly that one decigramme of pure glucina is permanently soluble in 25cub .
centims. of a saturated carbonate of ammonium .
It was necessary , in order to make these experiments complete , to ascertain whether great variations in temperature influenced the solubility of glucina in solution of carbonate of ammonium .
That glucina was permanently soluble at about 15 ' C. there remained no doubt ; but there might still be a tendency in glucina to assume an insoluble form at higher temperatures .
To determine this question it was essential to use a temperature many degrees higher than that ever reached by the atmosphere .
For this purpose 4 decigrammes of pure glucina were dissolved in the usual way in 100 cub. centims. of solution of carbonate of ammonium .
15 cub. centims. of this solution were transferred to a glass tube , which was then sealed and heated to 100 ' for two days .
The solution remained perfectly clear .
2 .
Does Glucina confer its solubility on Alumina ?
or does Alumina confer its insolubility on Glucina ?
It is very easy to come to an erroneous conclusion on this point , because if a mixture of the two earths in solution of carbonate of ammonium be filtered at once a certain amount of alumina will , in that case , pass through the filter ; but it settles out in a short time , and , if glucina be present , it will be accompanied by some of that earth .
The following experiment was made to affix a quantitative value to the amount of alumina soluble in carbonate of ammonium when no glucina was present to influence its solubility .
377 .
] Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
0-5000 gramme of pure alumina was dissolved in hydrochloric acid id precipitated ( after neutralization with carbonate of ammonium ) with 00 cub. centims. of solution of the carbonate .
The whole was thrown a a filter at once .
The contents of the filter were washed , dried , and united .
The alumina which had precipitated at once weighed 0-4702 ramme .
The filtrate , on standing twenty-four hours , had yielded a leposit weighing 0*0281 gramme .
These numbers , reduced to percentages , re as follows :\#151 ; Alumina precipitated at once ... . .
94-04 " coming down afterwards. .
5-62 Loss ... .
'34 100-00 it was considered that the question whether glucina confers its solu-jility on alumina would be best answered by treating with carbonate of immonium a mixture containing a great excess of glucina .
Experiment I.\#151 ; A mixture was therefore made of 0-2500 gramme of jlucina and 0-0250 gramme of alumina .
It was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and the excess of acid was removed by evaporation ; 50 cub. centims. of carbonate-of-ammonium solution were then added .
The precipitate at first formed entirely redissolved in a few minutes , but the alumina commenced to deposit in about fifteen minutes afterwards .
The mixture was allowed to stand for twenty-four hours and was then filtered .
The precipitate of alumina containing glucina weighed 0-0323 gramme .
The glucina recovered from the solution weighed 0-2407 gramme ; or , per cent.:\#151 ; ii|f Composition of Found after mixture .
one extraction .
Glucina ..90-91 ... ... ... ... . .
87*53 Alumina . .
9*09 ... ... ... ... . .
11*75 100-00 99-28 The glucina , although in such great excess , had therefore , under the circumstances indicated , not conferred its solubility on the alumina ; but , on the contrary , the alumina had conferred its insolubility on the tP glucina .
Experiment II.\#151 ; The alumina obtained in the manner described was redissolved , reprecipitated , and again treated with 25 cub. centims. of M carbonate-of-ammonium solution for twenty-four hours .
The glucina had now increased to 0*2432 , and the alumina diminished to 0-0298 .
J The composition of the mixture , as found after two extractions , was ,1 therefore as follows:\#151 ; 172 Mr. Gr .
Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ Apr. 26 Found after two extractions .
Glueina ... ... ... ... ... ... 88*44 Alumina ... ... ... ... ... . .
10*84 99*27 After two extractions the alumina therefore still retained nearly 2 pei cent , of glucina .
j Experiment III.\#151 ; Although these results seemed conclusive as far as they went , I resolved to repeat the experiment with a mixture containing a still greater excess of glucina , because it appeared especially important in an inquiry of this kind to know the behaviour towards a solution ol carbonate of ammonium of glucina containing a comparatively small proportion of alumina .
Tor this purpose a mixture was taken of 1 gramme of glucina and 3 centigrammes of alumina ; it was dissolved as usual , precipitated in the form of carbonates of the earths , and treated with 100 cub. centims. of solution of carbonate of ammonium .
The earths dissolved entirely at first ; but , small as the quantity of alumina was , the solution began to get turbid in about ten minutes .
The mixture was left in the cold for twenty hours .
The residue of alumina containing glucina was then filtered off , treated in the usual manner , and weighed .
The glucina recovered from the solution weighed 0*9846 gramme .
Composition of .
Found after mixture .
one extraction .
Glucina ..97*09 ... ... ... ... 95*59 Alumina. .
2*91 ... ... ... ... ... . .
4*16 100*00 99*75 Alumina , therefore , even when mixed with glucina to the small extent of 3 per cent. , renders some of the latter insoluble ; this , then , is a distinct answer to the question at the head of the section .
3 .
With what amount of accuracy can a mixture of Glucina and Alumina be separated by means of Carbonate of Ammonium ?
The fact that alumina confers its insolubility on glucina is the cause of the difficulties that have been found in the separation of the two earths .
We have seen that , under the conditions indicated , one treatment with carbonate of ammonium is insufficient to dissolve the glucina out from such a mixture .
I wish , however , to guard myself from appearing to express the opinion that it would be impossible , by a modification of the process , to effect the separation at one operation , as , in fact , I am engaged at the present moment in an attempt to solve that problem .
In order to ascertain the number of times that it would be necessary to treat the insoluble residue with carbonate of ammonium , in order to extract all the glucina , the following experiments wex*e made .
877 ] Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
173 Experiment I.\#151 ; A mixture was taken of 0-5000 gramme of glucina ad the same amount of alumina ; after three treatments for forty-eight ours each with carbonate of ammonium the following results were btained .
The residue of alumina weighed 0*5107 gramme .
No. of extractions .
Glucina obtained .
1 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-3896 JI ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-0739 HI ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-0203 0-4838 HI h I Composition of Obtained in three mixture .
treatments .
Glucina ..50-00 ... ... ... ... ... . .
48*38 Alumina . .
50*00 ... ... ... ... .
51*07 100-00 . .
99-45 Experiment II.\#151 ; Upon a similar mixture the following modification of the process was tried .
The mixture was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , the excess of acid was neutralized with ammonia , and 200 cub. centims. of a warm solution of ammonium carbonate were added .
The solution was stirred briskly for five minutes , and then filtered off rapidly .
The precipitate was only washed moderately so as not to dilute the filtrate too much .
Hie filtrate was allowed to stand for twenty-four hours , the deposit was filtered off , added to the first residue , dissolved with it in hydrochloric acid , and again treated twice with 100 cub. centims. of carbonate-of-ammonium solution in the cold for twenty-four hours each time .
The alumina weighed 0*5201 gramme .
3i 0 No. of extractions .
I ... ... ... II ... ... ... Ill ... ... ... Glucina obtained .
... 0-4450 ... 0-0163 , ... 0-0161 0-4774 cu II eii I | lS5 II H I Composition of mixture .
Glucina . .
50-00 Alumina .
.50*00 Obtained in three treatments . . .
47-74 . .
52-01 100-00 99-75 Experiment III.\#151 ; A mixture was then prepared of 0-2640 gramme of glucina and 0*8520 gramme of alumina .
It was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , neutralized with carbonate of ammonium , and digested with 95 cub. centims. of the carbonate-of-ammonium solution for twenty-four hours ; it was stirred occasionally .
The solution was then filtered , the residue dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and , after neutralizing , was treated Mr. G. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ Apr. 26 with 100 cub. centims. of a cold solution of carbonate of ammonium , and allowed to stand twelve hours .
The glucina was separated in the usua manner .
This mode of proceeding was repeated seven times , with the results given in the annexed Table .
No. of extractions .
I Glucina obtained ( per cent. ) .
, ... 12-75 II .
... 3-24 in .
... .
0-61 IV .
... 3-74 V. ... .
1-26 VI .
, . . .
0-56 VII .
... .
1-13 23-29 Glucina .
Composition of mixture .
... 23-66 ... .
Obtained in seven treatments .
23-29 Alumina .
... 76-34 100-00 The alumina was not estimated in this experiment .
The answer , then , to the question at the head of the section is , that results to within half a per cent , of the truth can be obtained by means of the carbonate-of-ammonium process if a sufficient number of extractions be made , 4 .
How do solutions of Glucina and Alumina behave with Carbonate !
of Barium ?
As it frequently happened , during my analyses of emeralds and beryls , that it would have been a great convenience to be able to precipitate the glucina , alumina , and iron together by means of carbonate of barium , it became necessary to examine the behaviour of the two earths with that reagent , especially since , as happens so frequently in the literature relating to glucina , there is a difference of opinion among chemists upon the subject .
Rose * states that solutions of glucina are not precipitated in the cold ; Fresenius t that carbonate of barium precipitates glucina completely upon cold digestion .
This is at variance with the observations of Awdejew+ , who states that only partial precipitation takes place in the cold , but that the precipitation is almost complete on boiling .
Joy S endorses Weeren 's statement , that both glucina and alumina are precipitated , but does not enter into details .
Ordway || states that a solution of nitrate of glucina * Handb .
d. chem .
Anal. ii .
p. 61 .
t Qualitative Analysis , 8th edit .
p. 103 .
\ Pogg , Ann. lvi .
p. 101 .
S Loc .
tit , || Sill .
Am .
J. [ 2 ] xxxi .
p. 197 .
377 1 Mr. Gr .
Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
only partially precipitated in the cold by carbonate of barium , a soluble isic nitrate remaining in solution , but that the precipitation is competed on boiling .
To study this subject quantitatively I made the folding experiments .
Experiment I.\#151 ; Precipitation of Alumina in the cold by Carbonate of Barium .
0*8034 gramme of pure alumina was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , 'he solution was nearly neutralized with carbonate of sodium , and an xcess of carbonate of barium , made into a cream with water , was added .
Lfter standing twelve hours the precipitate was collected , washed and dissolved in hydrochloric acid .
The solution was then boiled and preci-\gt ; itated with an excess of sulphuric acid .
The sulphate of barium was interred off with the usual precautions , and the filtrate was precipitated jy ammonia .
The precipitate was thoroughly washed , dried , and ignited ; it weighed 0*8005 gramme , or 99*64 per cent , on the original alumina .
Alumina is therefore completely precipitated in the cold by carbonate of oarium .
Experiment II.\#151 ; Precipitation of in the cold by Carbonate of Barium .
0*5175 gramme of pure glucina were dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and treated precisely as the alumina had been in the last experiment .
The precipitate weighed 0*1070 gramme , or 20*68 per cent , on the original glucina .
This result , therefore , confirms the observation of Awdejew , that glucina is only imperfectly precipitated by carbonate of barium in the cold , and , under the circumstances indicated , behaves like the nitrate in Ordway 's experiments .
Experiment HI.\#151 ; Precipitation of a mixture of Glucina and Alumina in the cold by Carbonate of Barium .
0*2096 gramme of pure alumina and 0*2055 of pure glucina were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and treated precisely like the alumina in Experiment I. The precipitate of the mixed earths weighed 0*3874 gramme , or 93*33 per cent , on the original weight .
Alumina , therefore , in this case , as in the experiments with carbonate of ammonium , communicates much of its insolubility to the glucina .
Assuming only the portion precipitated by carbonate of barium to be accounted for in the analysis of a beryl containing 28*89 per cent , of the mixed earths , only 26*96 would be obtained , the loss being 6*67 per cent. , which , as we have seen , would fall chiefly upon the glucina , if the operation were conducted in the cold .
This loss is , however , variable , and appears to depend , to some extent , upon the relative proportions of the two earths .
VOL. XXVI .
N

