492 Mr. J. E. Petavel .
The Pressure of Explosions .
[ Aug. 18 , hydrogen , * but the radiations of radium appear to be unable to do this .
Our experiments seem rather to support the view , suggested in our first paper that the spontaneous light of radium may not be produced by any form of its radiations acting upon the nitrogen of the air outside it , but by a more direct action through encounters with nitrogen molecules , in some way associated with the radium , of those molecules of the radium which are undergoing active changes .
The Pressure of Explosions.\#151 ; Experiments on Solid and Gaseous Explosives .
By J. E. Petavel .
( Communicated by Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received August 18 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) Although this subject has been dealt with by numerous investigators , , certain branches of it still remain practically untouched .
With regard to the solid explosives used in ballistic work , the maximum pressure developed is usually well known , but the conditions which govern the combustion of the charge and the rate of cooling of the gaseous products require further investigation .
Explosive gaseous mixtures have only been studied at initial pressures but little above that of the atmosphere .
Even in the case of coal-gas and air , , which forms an exception to this rule , the work has not been extended to high pressures .
The present research was undertaken with a view to filling in these gaps .
The first part of the paper describes the apparatus which was used for the investigation of both solid and gaseous explosives ; the second part deals specially with the properties of cordite .
The pressures are photographically recorded on a revolving cylinder by means of a specially constructed manometer .
This manometer was designed with the object of securing the lowest possible time period .
The rise of pressure during the explosion of even the fastest cordite was , by means of this instrument , accurately inscribed without any oscillations being set up in the mechanism of the recorder .
The pressures measured range from 100 to 1800 atmospheres ( 0'7 to 12 tons per square inch ) .
Many of the results obtained during the study of cordite are most easily * Li vein g , 'Proc .
Camb .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 12 , p. 337 .
1905 .
] Experiments on Solid and Gaseous Explosives .
493 expressed graphically , and a study of the curves given in the paper will be found preferable to the most careful abstract .
In dealing with such a subject , general statements bereft of the necessary explanations and qualifications are apt to be somewhat misleading .
The present investigation confirms the view that the combustion of cordite proceeds according to parallel surfaces .
The rate at which the flame travels towards the centre of each particle of explosive is proportional to the pressure under which combustion is taking place .
This velocity is measured and it is shown how both the time required to reach the maximum pressure , and also the shape of the curve representing the rise of pressure , may be calculated from the data given .
The effect produced by decreasing the diameter of the explosive is discussed .
Though the time required for complete combustion decreases with the diameter , the shape of the curve representing the rise of pressure remains practically unaltered , the scale of time alone being changed .
Thus , even were the cordite in the finest state of division , though the combustion would be nearly instantaneous the effect produced would always be distinct from that of a detonation .
The maximum pressures obtained are compared with the measurements made by Noble with which they are in close agreement .
It is shown that the pressure developed by the explosion for various gravimetric densities may be deduced , with a fair degree of approximation , by formulae derived from the kinetic theory of gases .
The pressures calculated according to Yan der Waals ' law are compared with the experimental results .
The modifications introduced by the use of enclosures of different shapes are studied .
When the surface of the enclosure is considerable as compared with its volume , the diameter of the cordite has a marked influence on the maximum pressure developed .
For large diameters the pressure is considerably below the normal value .
With regard to the rate of cooling the results are compared with those obtained by the author in previous experiments on gases under high pressures.* The investigation leads to the conclusion that the rate of cooling depends essentially on the thermal conductivity of the enclosure and not on that of the gas .
With the massive enclosures which are necessary for such experiments , it is found that the rate of cooling varies , not in proportion to the surface but more nearly as the square of this value .
Incidentally attention is drawn to the very high temperatures which are reached by the inner surface of the steel walls .
This throws some light on the important question of erosion .
* 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 197 , pp. 229 to 254 , 1901 .
2 m 2 494 Sir Norman Lockyer and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Apr. 5 , When the explosion takes place in a long vessel , wave action is frequently set up .
A non-uniform distribution of the explosive enhances this phenomenon .
The velocity of the pressure-wave is measured and compared with the velocity of sound under similar conditions .
Generally speaking the work confirms the remarkable properties of cordite with regard to its high power and to the regularity of the effects produced .
The paper is accompanied by some 20 figures illustrating the results obtained , and is followed by tables giving the principal numerical values .
The Flow of the River Thames to British Pressure and Rainfall Changes .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , LL. I ) .
, Sc. D. , F.E.S. , and William J. S. Lockyer , M.A. ( Camb .
) , Ph. D. ( Gott .
) , F.R.A.S. ( Received April 5 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 6 and 7 .
] In a previous communication* to the Society we gave the results of a preliminary survey of the behaviour of the short-period barometric variation over many areas on the earth 's surface .
The very close association of rainfall with pressure has led to an enquiry into the variation of the former in relation to this latter change ; this investigation is still in progress .
The recent publication , July 18 , 1904 , of a memorandum to the Thames Conservators on the " Rainfall and Floods in the Basin of the River Thames above Teddington Weir " since the year 1883 , and a previous report on " The Shrinkage of the Thames and Lea , " published by the London County Council in 1903 , present data the discussion of which , although belonging to the general investigation to which reference has just been made , forms rather a subject for special enquiry and makes a reference to it desirable at the present time .
The present communication is , then , strictly limited to these and other data which have been collected in Britain .
The relation to the questions of rainfall and pressure changes over large areas is , however , discussed .
Reference to the Lea has here been omitted , since this river has been stated in the above-mentioned report of the L.C.C. to exhibit variations similar to those of the Thames .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 73 , p. 457 .

