On the Colours of certain Larvce .
417 eules of hydrogen when this body is compressed to a density comparable with the density of liquids.* " The Experimental Proof that the Colours of certain Lepidopterous Larvae are largely due to modified Plant Pigments derived from Food .
" By Edward B. Poulton , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 12 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1893 .
[ PliATES 3 AND 4 .
] In a paper printed in the * Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for 1885 ( pp. 269\#151 ; 315 ) , I brought forward many reasons for regarding certain elements of the colouring of Lepidopterous larvae as modified chlorophyll derived from the food plant .
For this altered pigment the name metachlorophyll was suggested ( loc. tit .
, p. 270 ) .
Many other observations , subsequently made , supported the same conclusion ; but it was not until the summer of last year ( 1892 ) that I was able successfully to carry out the critical experiment , viz. , selecting a species of larva which normally eats green leaves , to feed it from the egg upon parts of the plant from which all colouring matter is absent .
This experiment was carried out in the following manner:\#151 ; A captured female of Tryphcena pronub a laid many hundreds of eggs in a chip box .
The first larvae began to appear September 7 , 1893 .
On this and the subsequent dates , the larvae intended for the purposes of these experiments were arranged in three sets , fed respectively upon\#151 ; ( 1 ) the yellow etiolated leaves from the central part of the heart of the cabbage , ( 2 ) the white mid-ribs of such leaves from which the yellow blade was carefully removed with scissors , ( 3 ) the deep green external leaves of the same plant .
In all other essential respects the conditions of the three sets were the same .
All were kept in the dark to prevent the change of the etiolin into chlorophyll .
They were only exposed to light during the times necessary for comparison and feeding , and these are indicated below .
A few were kept in glass cylinders standing on plates , the majority being confined in white earthenware pots covered at first with white muslin , but subsequently with glass sheets .
Eventually all were kept in pots .
It is clear that the only essential difference between the conditions of the sets was the fact that the food of the first contained etiolin but * Lord Kelvin states that in " any ordinary liquid " the mean distance between the centres of contiguous molecules is , with a " very high degree of probability , " less than 0'0000002 and greater than 0*000000001 of a centimetre .
See ' Roy .
Institution Proc. , * vol. 10 , p. 185 .
418 Mr. E. B. Poulton .
Experimental Proof that the Colours no chlorophyll , while the food of the second contained only a little etiolin , and that so situated ( around the fibrovascular bundles and buried deeply in the substance of the mid-ribs ) that the larvaa could not make use of it , whiie the food of the third contained abundant chlorophyll .
It is evident that any constant difference between the larval colours in the three sets followed from these differences in the food supplied them ; and , unless there are reasons for believing that the differences were due to pathological change , and thus an indirect result of the food , we must hold that they are a direct result , and that important elements of the larval colouring are dependent on the existence of some modification of pigments derived from their food .
The course of the experiment will now be described in a tabular form .
Dates .
( 1 ) Etiolated leaves .
( 2 ) White mid-ribs .
( 3 ) Grreen leaves .
Sept , 7 18 larva ?
, the first to hatch , introduced .
Sept. 8 45 larvae added .
About 50 larvae introduced into 2 pots .
75 eggs , from which the larvae were hatching , introduced .
Sept. 22 Re-fed ; 40 placed in a cylinder and about 18 in a pot .
Re-fed ; about 20 alive in each .
pot .
Re-fed ; about 30 larvae counted .
Sept. 27 Length about 8*5 mm. Some of these larvae were distinctly , although rather faintly , green .
20 removed from cylinder into new pot .
All white , with no greenish tinge .
10 removed and placed in a bottle , and 10 in a new pot .
Re-fed ; 28 or 29 counted .
Oct. 4 The longest larva 15*75 mm. long when extended in walking .
Many changing skin .
The black subdorsal semilunar marks distinct in many of the largest .
Most were pale , but distinctly green , and all apparently with some green shade ; very different from the pale yellow colour of the etiolated leaves .
The larvae remaining in cylinder were now placed in a pot .
Again re-arranged : 9 placed in one pot , 9 in another , and 11 of the smallest in a third .
28 counted ; 1 killed accidentally ; 13 placed in one pot , and 14 in another .
Oct. 10 All very carefully compared .
27 in 4th stage , very uniformly about 23*0 mm. long , when fairly extended at rest ; 5 'pale distinct green ; 12 darh greenish , varying according to the amount of dark superficial pigment , and transitional into 24 alive .
Again re-arranged in 4 groups , placed in separate pots , containing respectively the 5 largest , the 9 next in size , the 5 next in size , and the 5 smallest .
The largest were in 2nd stage .
All quite white , being quite as large as those fed These larvae were frequently compared together and with those of experiment ( 1 ) .
There was no essential difference , except that these grew rather more slowly .
At this time they were similarly - 'ain Larvae are due to Pigments derived from .
419 Dates .
( 1 ) Etiolated leaves .
( 2 ) White mid-ribs .
( 3 ) Green leaves .
the brown larvae ( 10 ) in which the green colour is absent .
The palest green larva , a similar larva with more superficial pigment , a typical dark greenish , and a typical brown larva were selected for painting at this date , together with a very deep bluish-green larva , which changed its 3rd skin just before being painted ( see Pl .
3 , fig. 1 ) .
The shade of green was far deeper than in any other individual .
upon etiolin ( 1 ) on Sept. 27 , when they began to become green .
green and brown of various shades , darkening , as they entered the last stage , into brown .
11 larvae in 3rd stage , the largest being 18\#151 ; 19 mm. long when extended .
7 pale green , 1 pale brown , 3 deep brown .
23 larvae changing 3rd skin .
13 pale green , 5 darkish green , including the deep bluish-green one represented in fig. 1 , PL 3 ( 4 of these changed their skins during the comparison ) , 6 brown ( 2 being greenish and transitional ) .
Oct. 11 3 of the largest were figured ( see PI .
3 , fig. 2 ) .
They were in the 2nd stage .
Oct. 19 1 The larvae had grown rapidly , and a few had entered the last stage , while several were changing the last skin .
As they matured they became darker , and all 5 largest were all about 11 mm. long when extended ; 3 were changing 2nd skin , 2 large in 2nd stage .
Same white appearance with faint greyish shade , due to mtSmm m m mm 420 Mr. E. B. Poulton .
Experimental Proof th Dates .
a ) Etiolated leaves .
( 2 ) White mid-ribs .
( 3 ) Green leaves .
eventually turnei brown , mostly of a dark shade .
superficial true pigment .
Of the 9 next in size 3 were dead , and the 5 smallest were all dead or dying .
Oct. 26 Nearly all in last stage , and brown of various shades , occasionally faintly greenish .
The 2 largest were 120 and 13*5 mm. long respectively when extended .
Of the 6 next in size 2 were dead , and of the remaining 5 , 2 were dying .
Oct. 29 Of the 5 largest , 4 were dead by this date or in the course of the next day or two .
The remaining larva was placed ( Oct. 29 ) on etiolated leaves .
Nov. 2 Mostly mature , and various shades of brown .
When carefully compared with the larvae fed on green leaves ( 3 ) no difference in colour could be seen , except such as was due to the colour of the food in the digestive tract .
This was also true of earlier stages .
The larva on etiolin remained as white as before .
Of the next in size 3 were alive , 1 of which had grown very much , and seemed to be near the end of the 3rd stage .
It was very white and maggot-like .
The smallest was placed on etiolin .
Of the 5 remaining larvae 2 were alive .
1 was very small , and apparently in the 1st stage , the other probably at end of 2nd stage .
Both were placed on etiolin .
Carefully compared .
23 alive in 4 pots .
20 in last stage , and all various shades of brown except 2 , which were slightly greenish and distinctly greenish respectively , the latter having only just changed skin .
1 was in 4th stage ; 2 were changing last skin ( 1 green and 1 light brown ) .
Nov. 9 !
Of the only 2 larvae now eating the white The 3 last mentioned larvae and the GO I c*\gt ; a- O S \amp ; o a. to Dates .
a ) Etiolated leaves .
( 2 ) White mid-ribs .
( 3 ) Green leaves .
mid-ribs the larger one had grown considerably .
The 4 on etiolin were still alive , and seemed to have become yellower , but not more so than was to be expected from the food in the digestive tract .
distinctly greenish one in last stage were kept together and compared at this date .
1 was dead ; 1 was small in last stage ( dark brown ) ; 2 were large in last stage ( 1 light brown and 1 somewhat greenish-brown ) .
Nov. 16 Of the 4 on etiolin 2 were dead ( including the larva first placed on it ) , the others still faintly yellowish .
Nov. 20 The largest larva was now 21*5 mm. long when extended at rest ; the other was dead .
Only 1 larva alive on etiolin , and that died Nov. 21 .
Nov. 28 .
The remaining larva had grown greatly , and was advanced in the 4th stage .
A great development of superficial pigment had appeared suddenly between this date and Nov. 20 , especially marked upon the brown head , prothoracic plate , and supra-anal plate , and in the dark subdorsal semilunar marks ; minute black points were also abundantly scattered over the whitish general surface .
The white sub- i ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..^ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
422 Mr. E. B. Poulton .
Exp Proof that the Col\lt ; ( i ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) Dates .
Etiolated leaves .
White mid-ribs .
Grreen leaves .
dorsal line was opaque , and evidently followed from some structural cause ( probably pigmentary ) distinct from that to which the pale whitish general surface was due .
This was perhaps the case with the white spiracular line also .
When at rest the length varied from 200 to 22*0 mm. according as the larva was moderately contracted or moderately extended .
On December 2 the larva was painted ( in the 4th stage ) in two attitudes ( see PI .
4 , % .
i ) .
Dec. 16 The larva was resting before changing the last skin ; it was 29*0 mm. long when extended at rest . !
Dec. 18 The last skin had now been shed , and the larva was much darker , although the ground colour seen between the dark pigment spots was as pale as before .
Hence the effect was greyish .
On the evening of the 17th , before ecdysis , the increase of superficial pigment was observed , especially in the dorsal , subdorsal , and supra-spiracular regions .
Dec. 29 The larva was painted when much grown in last stage ( Pi .
4 , figs. 2 and 3 ) .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) Dates , j Etiolated leaves .
Wliite mid-ribs .
Green leaves .
i Jan. 1 , 1893 At this date the larva was offered etiolated leaves , but did not appear to eat at all , and seemed to be hybernating .
The appearance did not alter .
On Jan. 14th it was killed accidentally .
424 Mr. E. B. Poulton .
* Experimental Proof that the Colo of certain Larvce are due to Pigments derived from Food .
425 Before discussing the conclusions , it will he best to consider the possible effect of certain conditions incidental to the experiments .
Darkness.\#151 ; The almost continuous darkness probably affected the colours of the larvae in ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) , as they became mature .
The adult larvae of T. pronuba are sometimes bright green ; and some of the larvae , hatched from the batch of eggs which supplied these experiments , reared by Miss L. J. Gould in the light and with green surroundings , remained a distinct , although dark , green until maturity , quite unlike any of those referred to above .
Although it is thus probable that the larvae are sensitive , like so many others , to the colour and degree of illumination of their surroundings , the results of these experiments are not affected in any essential respect ; for there was abundant opportunity for comparison before the changes referred to had taken place October 10 ) , and when the majority of the larvae in ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) were green ( see Plate 3 , fig. 1 ) .
Furthermore it is also evident that the comparison was equally valid after the change had taken place , inasmuch as the browtf ground colour , no less than the green , is shown to be due to a modified plant pigment .
Nutritive Value of Pigmentless Food.\#151 ; The extremely slow growth of the larvae fed upon the white mid-ribs , and the death of all except one of them in an early stage , may be looked upon as an argument that they were in a pathological condition , one result being the inability to form a certain kind of pigment .
Such an interpretation would , of course , upset the conclusions I have arrived at .
On the other hand , it may be urged that the single larva in ( 2 ) which survived until it was advanced in the last stage was certainly not pathological , and yet was unable to form the pigments in question .
Although it grew very slowly in early youth , it began to be conspicuous by its size on November 2 , and from this date it grew rapidly and fed largely ( see Plate 4 , figs. 1 and 2 ) ; judged by all standards , it was perfectly healthy .
Furthermore , everyone who breeds larvae knows that they are subject to diseases of various kinds , and yet , so far as I am aware , the complete inability to form certain classes of pigment has not been recognised as a symptom .
Moreover , the larvae fed on the thick succulent etiolated leaves ( 1 ) grew far more rapidly then those fed on green leaves ( 3 ) .
This species hybernates in the larval state , and , as is usually the case in such species , the rate of growth is extremely irregular .
Many of the larvae reared by Miss Gould , and single larvae fed upon green leaves by me , lagged far behind the others and yet remained healthy .
I believe that the retarding effect of the mid-ribs was not due to the absence of plant'pigments , but to the rapid drying and oxidation of the cut surfaces ( left by the removal of the rest of the leaf ) and the inability of the young larvae to get sufficient food from other parts , 426 Mr. E. B. Poulton .
Experimental Proof that the Colours where the tough cuticle could not be easily penetrated by their small weak mandibles .
The larger larva do not experience the same difficulty .
It will be well , however , to repeat the experiment with other larva , some of which may be expected to have greater powers of endurance .
I would suggest Mamestra brassicce and Phlogophora meticulosa as suitable for the purpose .
Freshly cut mid-ribs might be offered every day or perhaps twice a day .
Conclusions from the Experiments.\#151 ; Assuming that the results obtained in Experiment ( 2 ) are not pathological , and I believe that this assumption is justified , it follows that etiolin ( 1 ) , no less than chlorophyll ( 3 ) , can be transformed into a larval colouring matter , which may be either green or brown , and is so disposed as to form a ground colour .
The fact that brown pigments may be thus formed is new .
In my previous paper ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1885 , pp. 269 et seq. ) I gave reasons for the conclusion that the green pigments are derived from plants , but argued that brown pigments are proper to the'larva .
This still remains true in many cases .
Thus the green larvae of Amphidasis betularia , investigated in 1892 , are coloured by derived pigments contained in the superficial fat , while the brown larvae are coloured by true pigment contained in the epidermic cells ( ' Trans. Ent .
Soc. Lond. , ' 1892 , pp. 357\#151 ; 359 ) , so that the green fat which lies beneath is concealed .
The intensely opaque and dark larvae of many other Geometrae are probably similarly coloured by true pigments in the cuticle or epidermis .
But the brown ground colour of many Noctua larvae will probably be found to be due , like that of T. pronuba , to modified plant pigments .
A comparison of the larvae fed on pigmentless food ( Plate 3 , fig. 2 , Plate 4 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ) with those fed upon etiolated leaves ( Plate 3 , fig. 1 ) and the similar larvae fed upon green leaves , proves that both green and brown ground colours are modified plant pigments .
When the larvae fed on etiolin were being compared on October 10 , one of them became irritated and expelled a drop of fluid from its mouth .
This fluid was of a faintly bluish-green colour .
This observation suggests that the change of etiolin into a soluble green pigment takes place in the digestive tract .
Chlorophyll similarly becomes soluble and forms a green solution ( turning brown on exposure ) in the digestive tract of larvae .
It is possible that the brown ground colour of the larvae is also a result of oxidation : at any rate , it is a change in the direction of greater stability ; for I have shown that the colours of certain brown larvae , evidently coloured like those of T. , are far more persistent after preservation than those of the green varieties of the same species ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1885 , pp. 275 , 276 ) .
Although the brown ground colour , probably situated in this of certain Larvce are due to Pigments derived from Food .
427 species in the epidermic cells , is thus derived , there is an abundant deposit of true pigment in the form of spots and patches in the superficial cuticle .
This was as distinct in the larvae of ( 2 ) as in those fed upon etiolin or chlorophyll ; but , the ground colour of the former being white instead of green or brown , it produced a greyish effect ( Plate 4 , figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ) .
The opaque , white stripes in the sub-dorsal and spiracular regions are also probably due to true pigment situated in this case in the epidermic cells , and are equally conspicuous in the larvae fed on pigmentless food ( Plate 4 , fig. 2 ) .
In certain parts of the body the cuticle is of relatively greater thickness\#151 ; the head , prothoracic dorsal plate , supra-anal plate , true legs , and parts of the claspers .
In these situations , therefore , the com* bination of a deeply-placed ground colour composed of derived pigments with a superficially placed true pigment would not necessarily produce the same effect as in the other parts of the body where the cuticle is much thinner ; for the derived pigments would tend to be hidden .
In these parts , therefore , both ground colour and markings are cuticular , while both are composed of true pigment of such a tint as to harmonise with the effect produced by the combination of two distinct elements in other parts of the body .
Hence these parts remained normal in the larva ) of Experiment ( 2 ) , resembling the brown larvoe of the other experiments , and serving to show what the colour of the rest of the body would have been if the plant pigments had been present in the food ( Plate 4 , fig. 3).* Some indication was afforded in the course of these experiments that the power of converting the plant-pigments into metachlorophyll may be lost in larvae which have been fed from the egg for a considerable time upon pigmentless food .
Thus the larvae of Experiment ( 2 ) remained pale when fed upon leaves which caused those of Experiment ( 1 ) to become brown or green .
At the same time it must be remembered that these particular larvae were certainly unhealthy , and died soon after the change of food .
I hope to repeat this experiment upon healthy larvae .
I have already shown that many larvae which are normally found upon a variety of food plants will starve rather than eat certain of them when they have been fed upon the others from the egg ( 'Ent .
Soc. Lond. Trans. , ' 1887 , pp. 312\#151 ; 314 ) .
It is possible that a somewhat analogous " gastric education " may take place as regards the digestive action upon plant pigments .
But confirmatory experiments , specially directed to test the conclusion , are much wanted .
* [ This argument appears to be valid in the case of the older larvae of this species and probably many others .
There are , however , many instances in which the derived pigments are distinctly visible through an extremely thick cuticle ( e.g. , in the head of larvae of the genus Smerinthus ) .
The distribution of the derived pigments has not been investigated in this case.\#151 ; October 15 , 1893 .
] 428 Mr. E. B. Poulton , Experimental Proof that the Colours It is of great interest that the etiolin should be as effective as chlorophyll in the production of larval colours .
It is , however , probable that the difference between etiolin and chlorophyll is , chemically , extremely small , while both appear to undergo similar changes in the larval digestive tract , yielding a substance which becomes dark coloured on exposure to air , probably by oxidation .
Thus of the two heaps of fasces represented in Plate 3 , fig. 1 , that to the left bad been exposed to the air for some hours , and was dark brown , while that to the right was fresh and of a pale-yellow tint .
A cut midrib darkens on exposure quite independently of the plant pigments as may be seen in the same figure ; but the tint is different , and the depth of shade far less than in the faeces containing abundant etiolin .
The faeces of the larvae fed on pigmentless food similarly darkened far less rapidly and to a much less extent than those of the others .
Although the results of these experiments are , I believe , completely successful in establishing the conclusion they were intended to test , it must be admitted that they point to the beginning of an investigation rather than its end .
We now know that certain larval colours are dependent on the existence of modified plant pigments , and this naturally leads to an enquiry into the nature and causes of the processes by which chlorophyll and etiolin are converted in the animal body into a comparatively stable green or brown substance far removed from its original position in the digestive tract , and situated so as to form an important element in the effective colouring of the individual .
Description op Plates 3 and 4 . .
Plate 3 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A group of five larvae of in the 4th stage , natural size .
These larvae had been fed entirely upon the etiolated leaves of cabbage .
They had hatched September 7 and 8 ( 1893 ) and were painted October 10 .
Nearly all the shades of colour observed in the larvae at this stage are represented in the figure , four being various shades of green , and one brown .
It is clear from the figure that the larvae can form a deep green colouring matter from etiolated leaves .
There was , in fact , no difference in this respect between them and larvae fed on green leaves .
The marked contrast in colour between the green larvae and the leaf is some indication of the change which the etiolin has undergone in the larval body .
The dark marks along the sides are due to superficially placed true pigment , which is formed independently of any coloured substance in the food plant .
Two heaps of faeces are represented in the figure : that to the right Poulton .
Proc. Roij .
Soc. 4 .
PI.3 .
i. j09\ \ ' 4 " \ L P xM Natural Size x2 P J. B cup : and jiinx .
11th .
Werner \amp ; Winter , Frankfort C/ M. Poulton .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. Vol.5\#177 ; .
PIP .
XaturalSize 2 . .
- * .
\ Natural Size FJ .
Bayzand yinx .
11th .
Werner \amp ; Winter , Frankfort0M .
of certain Larva } are due to Pigments derived from Food .
429 fresh , and pale yellow in colour ; that to the left exposed to the air for some hours , and dark brown .
^ Fig , 2._A group of three larvae , of the same species , in the 2nd gtao-e , twice the natural size .
These larvae had been fed entirely upon the white mid-ribs of cabbage leaves .
They had hatched September 8 , and were painted October 11 .
While the larvae represented in fig. 1 were rather larger than those fed on green leaves , these are much smaller .
The colour is white , and maggot-like , the faint greyish appearance being due to superficial true pigment .
Except upon the head , there is not a trace of either the green or the brown ground colour invariably found in the larvae of this species under normal conditions .
Furthermore , these larvae are uniform in appearance , although the normal larvae are extremely variable .
A comparison between figs. 1 and 2 proves that the brown or green ground colour of the species is due to some modification of etiolin ( or chlorophyll in the case of normal larvae ) , unless indeed the results are to be explained as pathological\#151 ; an interpretation opposed to the facts represented in the figures on Plate 4 .
Plate 4 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Out of about fifty larvae which hatched September 8 , and were fed on white mid-ribs , a single one began to be conspicuous by its size on November 2 , and from this time it grew rapidly , and was evidently quite healthy , although all the others were dead by November 21 .
On December 2 it was painted ( natural size ) in two positions , being in the 4th stage .
The ground colour remained white or cream-coloured ; the grey effect being caused by superficial true pigment , which is seen to be especially marked upon the brown head , claspers , thoracic legs , prothoracic , and supra-anal plates , and upon the dark subdorsal semilunar marks .
Fig. 2._The last skin was changed by December 18 , and , on the 29th , the larva was again painted of the natural size , when advanced in the last stage .
The ground colour remained the same , but an increase in the true pigment caused the larva to become a darker shade of grey .
A row of supra-spiracular dark markings also made their appearance .
The white subdorsal line and , perhaps , the spira-cular line were evidently due to some cause of colour ( probably pigmentary ) distinct from that on which the pale ground colour of the general body surface depended .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; At the same date the head and anterior segments were painted , X 4 diameters .
In those parts where the cuticle is thickened , the head , prothoracic plate , and thoracic legs , a brown ground colour ( as well as the black spots and patches ) is developed from true pigment in the cuticle itself .
Hence these parts remain normal when 430 On the Colours of certain Lepidopterous Larvae .
the larvge are fed upon leaves without chlorophyll or etiolin .
But over the general surface of the body the cuticle is very thin , and only contains the black spots and patches of true pigment , while the brown or green ground colour , derived from plant pigments , is subcuticular in position .
Hence in a larva fed on pigmentless parts of leaves , represented in fig. 3 , this latter ground colour is replaced by a creamy tint which is due to the uncoloured tissues of the body , especially the fat , and to the contents of the digestive tract .
This creamy ground colour , combined with the spots of true pigment in the cuticle , produces the general greyish appearance of these larvae .
The posterior segments of the larva , painted at the same date , X 4 diameters , are also represented in the figure , indicating that the thickened cuticle of the supra-anal plate ( which possessed a sharper outline than that represented in the figure ) contains both brown ground colour and black spots of true pigment , while the general surface presents the combination of a white ground colour and dark spots , conferring a grey appearance .

