On an improved Reflecting Circle .
By Joseph de Mendoza Rios , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 4 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 363 .
] The great utility of Hadley 's quadrant in practical astronomy , and particularly in navigation , has given rise to several improvements of that valuable instrument , of which some account is premised in the present paper .
The first of these is due to the celebrated Tobias Meyer , who , by completing the limb of the sextant into a whole circle , and adding an horizon index , enabled us to repeat the -observations , so as to ascertain the double , triple , and even a greater multiple of the angles ; by which means the errors of division or eccentricity in the instrument can be reduced in the inverse ratio of the repetition of the observations , so as to arrive at any degree of approximation that may be required .
Some imperfection still remaining as to the manner of rendering the glasses parallel , so as to produce the exact coincidence of the images , the Chevalier de Borda contrived a method of rendering this exact parallelism of less consequence , by substituting the immediate observation of the angular distance of the two objects to that of the coincidence of their images in one field .
In his instrument the telescope is fixed at such a distance from the centre that the rays of light may arrive at the centre-glass both from the right and the left : double distances and cross observations are thus easily obtained , which essentially correct any imperfection in the construction of the instrument .
The peculiar advantages of these improvements being chiefly to afford the means of multiplying the observations of the distance required , Mr. Mendoza has directed his attention to some further improvements , which he thought might be deduced from the same principle .
He accordingly favours us with an account of his new reflecting circle , of which a distinct idea can only be obtained by an inspection of the three accurate delineations which accompany his paper .
One of the additions is a compound handle , which facilitates the holding the instrument with the same ease in every direction .
But the chief improvement appears to be a divided circle , moving round the centre , within , and close to the graduated limb , and capable of being alternately attached to each of the indexes .
This the author calls the Flying Nonius ; and shows how in every direction the two divisions may be made to exhibit the number of degrees on the limb , and of the minutes.and seconds on the flying nonius .
The manner in particular of making the crossed observations , by connecting the limb and the nonius alternately with the centre and horizon indexes , is here fully explained .
And lastly , a small graduated semicircle is added to the horizon index , the use of which is to prepare the instrument previous to an observation , so as to facilitate the operation of bringing the images to coincide in the field of the telescope .

