457 1885 .
] Taenia Echinococcus the Domestic Dog .
It seemed clear to me that all the entozoa present were bred after the effect of the doses of kamala had passed away , and consequently that the specimen of Taeniae echinococcus was forty-two days old , and the product of the experimental " feeding .
" Summary .
In three out of the four dogs experimented upon , Taenia echinococcus was found , and in the unsuccessful case it is doubtful whether living scolices were given to the dog .
The dogs were examined at various periods after the feedings , viz. , 20 , 32 , 42 days , and the Taeniae found corresponded in stage of development with the interval of time that had elapsed since the feeding .
I am indebted to Dr. Dunlop , of the Adelaide Hospital , for the drawings of the Taeniae bred in the experiments recorded , and also for the illustrations of ripe Taeniae procured from stray dogs , examined by me in Adelaide .
XIII .
" Note upon the frequent Occurrence of Echinococcus in the Domestic Dog in certain parts of Australia .
" By John Davies Thomas , M.D. ( Lond. ) , F.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , lately Physician to the Adelaide Hospital and Member of the Council of the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by T. S. Cobbold , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1885 .
From the well-known prevalence of hyatid disease ( both in man and the domestic herbivora ) in certain parts of the Australian continent , it might naturally be expected that Echinococcus should be often found in the domestic dogs of these parts , but as far as I know , no investigation had been made by any observer with a view to the determination of the point in question .
Accordingly , towards the close of the year 1882 , I commenced an inquiry into the matter , and although I have been prevented by the claims of my daily professional duties from an exhaustive investigation of the point , yet the facts already ascertained fully account for the very serious prevalence of hyatid disease in the localities where investigation has been made .
Dogs were examined at the following places in South Australia:\#151 ; 1 .
In the city of Adelaide ; 2 .
At Mount Gambier ; 3 .
At Millicent ; 4 .
At Penola .
The three last-named places are situated in the south-eastern district of the province , which is the most highly infected part of Australia as regards hyatid disease .
458 Taenia Echinococcus in Domestic Dog .
[ June 18 , In all four places Taenia Echinococcus was found in the stray dogs captured by the police .
1 .
Adelaide.\#151 ; In the first instance , twenty dogs were examined here .
Taenia Echinococcus was found in nine , and in numbers varying from a few specimens up to many thousands .
( Microscopic specimens of some of these accompany this paper .
) 2 .
Mount Gambier.\#151 ; Five dogs were examined here on December 7 , 1882 .
Two contained numerous examples of Tcenia Echinococcus .
3 .
Millicent.\#151 ; Out of four dogs examined , one contained this parasite .
4 .
Penola.\#151 ; The single dog examined at this place had thousands of specimens of Taenia Echinococcus in its small intestine .
Including all the dogs examined in 1882 ( thirty in number ) no fewer than 40 per cent , were infested by this dangerous tapeworm .
However it should be stated that nine dogs have been examined by me more recently , and that in only one of these could I find Tcenia Echinococcus .
This series of dogs differed from the former one in some respects .
The first group of dogs consisted of vagrant and ownerless animals that must have picked up their living largely from slaughter-houses , butchers ' shops , and offal heaps .
These naturally would have many opportunities of eating the viscera of slaughtered animals , cast aside as unfit for sale .
When the second series was procured , a very energetic raid against unregistered dogs had been made by the police for several months , consequently many of the dogs of this group had owners , by whom they were fed , but who were unwilling to pay the registration fee required by law .
In Melbourne.\#151 ; Ten stray dogs collected in the town of Hotham ( which is really a part of Melbourne ) were examined on January 15th and 16th , 1883 .
Five of them contained Taenia Echinococcus in greater or less number .
These observations show a very alarming prevalence of this dangerous parasite in the places where inquiry into the matter has been made , and fully explain the frequency of the cystic form ( hyatid ) both in man and the domestic herbivora of these localities .
In connexion with this subject , it may be mentioned that , according to Cobbold , this tapeworm has never been seen in any English dog which had not previously been experimentally infected .
Even in Iceland only 28 per cent , of the dogs examined by Krabbe were found to contain this tapeworm .

