311 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
2 .
The relationship among the constants is in good agreement with the theory based on the existence of a thin surface layer .
3 .
A new method of obtaining the relative internal cohesion of a gas is thereby presented .
4 .
The surface area of the adsorbent can be evaluated .
5 .
The range of molecular attraction may be determined , and in the cases considered is found to vary from 3'2 to 4T x 10~8 cm .
The author desires to express his thanks to Prof. James Walker , F.R.S. , for his help in the presentation of this paper .
Address of the President , Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , at the Anniversary Meeting , December 1 , 1919 .
The losses of the Society since the last Anniversary Meeting have been very heavy .
Fourteen Members on the Home List , and three Foreign Members , have died during the year , and among these are some who have for many years been most closely connected with the work of the Society , and whose discoveries and researches have for long been the glory of British science .
One of these , Sir William Crookes , had worked at science with untiring diligence and most conspicuous success for 60 years .
A pupil of Hofmann , he became famous in 1862 by his discovery by the new method of Spectrum Analysis of a new element , thallium ; this discovery won for him his election into the Society in the following year .
In 1873 he again made a discovery which attracted universal attention , that of the Radiometer .
The way in which he arrived at this discovery is as great a tribute to his genius as an investigator as the importance of the discovery itself .
In the course of some chemical experiments , he observed certain irregularities in the weighings made with a very delicate balance ; he followed these up , and at last traced them to forces acting on a surface exposed to radiation , and , with his unrivalled power of epitomising a discovery in a dramatic experiment , he summed the results of his work up in the well-known instrument , the radiometer or light-mill .
Though subsequent research has not confirmed the theory by which he explained its action , the radiometer is a striking example of his skill as an experimenter , the thoroughness of his work , and his determination to leave no difficulty unsolved .
His long-continued work VOL. xcvi.\#151 ; A. z 312 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
on the discharge of electricity through high vacua led to results of great importance , and the beauty and interest of his experiments did much to promote research in a region which has proved fruitful in results .
He had a singularly independent , original , and courageous mind ; he looked at things in his own way , and was not afraid of expressing views very different from those previously considered orthodox .
In not a few cases , notably in that of his views of radiant matter , time has shown that his ideas were much more in accordance with those which are now accepted than those commonly held by his contemporaries .
The Royal Society owes much to him for the services he rendered as Foreign Secretary and President , and especially for the papers which he communicated to the Society ; these were delightful to those who heard them , and have increased in no small degree the value and interest of our * Transactions ' and ' Proceedings .
' We have lost another Past President , Lord Rayleigh , who continuously for the last 50 years enriched every branch of physics , with results of first-rate importance .
Lord Rayleigh 's output of work has rarely been equalled , either in distinction or in amount .
He published nearly 400 papers ; not one of these is commonplace , there is not one which does not materially advance its subject , and hardly one of them contains anything which requires correction .
His discovery of argon is one of the romances of science .
It might seem incredible , and , indeed , to some it was incredible , that , in spite of the study which for centuries had been made of the atmosphere , there should have been in it , quite unsuspected , such quantities of a new substance that the amount in a moderate-sized room is to be reckoned in kilogrammes rather than in grammes .
Time does not permit of even a sketch of Lord Rayleigh 's contribution to science ; a full account of these , it is hoped , will soon be forthcoming , but I cannot pass over without notice his ' Theory of Sound , ' a model of a scientific text-book , for the clear and critical exposition it contains of the work of others , and for the value of his own contribution to the subject .
Lord Rayleigh possessed to a very remarkable degree the power of getting , in his theoretical as well as in his experimental work , at the very essence of the question , his judgment in scientific matters was unrivalled , and no subject ever passed through his mind without having difficulties removed and valuable ideas added .
To pass to other branches of his activity , he was Secretary of the Society from 1885 to 1896 , and President from 1905 to 1908 .
He had from its inception ( with which he had a good deal to do ) taken the greatest interest in the National Physical Laboratory ; he was Chairman of the Executive i Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
313 Committee from its commencement until a few months before his death , and the success of the Laboratory is in no small degree due to his wisdom , interest and influence .
He rendered great assistance during the war by the advice he gave in cases of exceptional difficulty , on which he was frequently consulted , and by his services as Chairman of the Committee on Aeronautics .
He was for many years Scientific Adviser to Trinity House , and was one of the original members of the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Industrial Research .
George Carey Foster , who had been a Fellow of the Society for fifty years , was one of its most beloved and respected members .
His unfailing courtesy , his sagacity , his fairness and freedom from prejudice , made him an ideal councillor .
He was one of those whose unobtrusive labours in the business and organization necessarily connected with the work of scientific societies have done much for the progress of science .
He was the pioneer of the teaching of Practical Physics in this country , as in 1866 , in two rooms in University College , London , he established the first Students ' Physical Laboratory in England .
By the death of Mr. Ducane Godman , at the age of 85 , we have lost a great ornithologist and a benefactor of the Society , and one whose presence was always welcome at scientific gatherings .
The 'Biologia Centrali-Americana , 'edited by Godman and his life-long friend and colleague , Osbert Salvin , is , from its magnificent contributions to Natural History and Archaeology , a striking instance of the debt which Science owes to the labours of men who , like Godman , hold no office , but spontaneously devote themselves to the extension of knowledge .
The well-known physicist , Prof. William Watson , was Director of the Central Laboratory , B.E.F. , from its establishment in 1915 , soon after the first gas attack , down to the end of 1918 .
He did much in devising means of defence against an infamous method of warfare .
He was frequently " gassed " himself , and his death after two months in hospital is attributed largely to the trying experiences he met with in the discharge of his duties .
Dr. A. G. Vernon Harcourt , who died in August at the age of 65 , was elected a Fellow of the Society in 1863 , the same year as Sir William Crookes .
He was endeared to many generations of Oxford men , a pioneer in the science of Physical Chemistry , and a very skilful experimenter .
He was one of the Metropolitan Gas referees , and brought to its present state of efficiency the 10-candle pentane standard .
Alexander Macalister , well known to many generations of Cambridge medical students , was a very successful teacher and worker in anatomy , and a man with exceptionally wide interests .
z 2 314 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
Dr. Henry Wilde was a pioneer in the invention of the dynamo .
, and applied it on a large scale , more than 50 years ago , to the electro-deposition of metals and to searchlights for the Navy .
A man of pronounced individuality , he interested himself in later life in the subject of terrestrial magnetism and the relation between the atomic weights of the elements .
He founded the Wilde Lectureship in the University of Oxford .
Dr. John Aitken , who died but a few days ago , was , like Mr. Godman , an excellent example of .
an unofficial worker who made important contributions to science .
His investigations on the influence of the presence of dust on the deposition of moisture have attracted much attention , both from the beauty of the experiments and the importance , both from the physical and meteorological point of view , of the results obtained .
His scientific papers had a freshness , an originality , and a simplicity which gave them a peculiar charm .
I have also to record the loss of Prof. Adrian Brown , distinguished for his researches on fermentation ; Sir Robert Inglis Palgrave , a distinguished statistician ; Prof. Trail , of Aberdeen , a well-known botanist ; Lord Macdonald , and Sir Edward Stirling .
Our Foreign Member , Prof. Pickering , of Harvard University , was one of our most distinguished astronomers , and one who took a large share in the remarkable development of astronomical research in America in the last fifty years .
His exceptional powers of organization enabled him to initiate and carry to a successful conclusion great schemes of astronomical research .
To mention but one instance , at his observatory at Harvard about two hundred thousand photographs were taken and catalogued , showing all stars down to the eleventh magnitude and many fainter ones ; these give a history , the only one that exists , of the Stellar Universe , and when a new object has been discovered its past history for many years has nearly always been revealed by these plates .
Prof. Emil Fischer had for long been one of the most famous of German chemists , the founder of a successful school , and a great teacher ; his own work was of such importance tha , t it has been said of him that by " his work on the sugars , the proteins , and the uric derivatives ( each an enquiry of unparalleled magnitude and importance ) he made biology on the chemical side a science .
" The contributions to the literature of anatomy by our late Foreign Member , Prof. Petzius , of Stockholm , were unequalled by any one of his generation .
It was , as you may imagine , with the greatest regret , almost with consternation , that the Council heard from Sir Alfred Kempe that the state of his health obliged him to resign the office of Treasurer , which he has held for I Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
20 years .
It is difficult to find words adequately to express our indebtedness to him ; by his sagacity , his long experience of the affairs of the Society , and his legal knowledge , he has rendered invaluable services in our councils and in directing the policy of our Society .
He carries with him on his retirement from the office which he has so long and worthily held the thanks and good wishes of every member of the Society .
But this does not complete the list of our losses : it was with very great regret the Council heard from Dr. Schuster that he could no longer undertake the duties of Secretary .
Everyone who has bad the privilege of working with him during the strenuous years from 1912 , when he took office , realises how much the Society owes to the unremitting work and zeal which he has devoted to the duties of his office , to the soundness of his judgment , and to his unstinted generosity .
On him has fallen nearly the whole of the very heavy burden of the organisation of International Association necessitated by the war .
We may congratulate ourselves that his activities in this direction will not terminate with his tenure of the Secretaryship , and that the question of International Science , in which he has so long been interested , and for which he has done so much , will still have the benefit of his work and guidance .
I have yet another loss to announce : the Council only a few weeks ago learnt with great regret that the state of Mr. Harrison 's health was such that he could no longer discharge the very heavy duties of the Assistant-Secretaryship , an office which he has held for 24 years , the longest tenure in the history of the Society .
I think all members of the Society will unite in thanking Mr. Harrison for the ability , zeal , and devotion to the interests of the Society which he has displayed so conspicuously during his long tenure of office , and will hope that the leisure to which he may now look forward will effect the complete restoration of his health .
This September Sir Bichard Glazebrook retired , under the age limit , from the Directorship of the National Physical Laboratory .
Few I think are privileged to see in such a striking and unmistakable form the success of their life s work as Sir Bichard can , in the buildings and achievements of the National Physical Laboratory at Teddington , which have all been done under his direction .
He leaves the Laboratory in the full tide of prosperity and with a splendid record of services rendered during the war .
The domestic events in the* history of the Society have been so numerous that I have but little time for any other subject .
I cannot , however , pass over without notice the remarkable result that was announced at our first meeting this session , that the observations made at the eclipse of May 29 showed that light was deflected , when passing close to the Sun , by an amount 316 Anniversary Address by Sir J. Thomson .
which , within the somewhat wide limits of the experimental error , agreed with that predicted by Einstein .
The deflection of light by matter , suggested by Newton in the first of his Queries , would in itself be a result of first-rate scientific importance ; it is of still greater importance when its magnitude supports the law of gravity put forward by Einstein , a law which has explained the long-standing difficulty of the motion of the perihelion of Mercury .
On Einstein 's Law the velocity of light passing through a field of gravitational attraction depends upon the gravitational potential , and diminishes as the potential diminishes .
Thus the gravitional field round the Sun acts like a refracting atmosphere , the refraction diminishing as the distance from the Sun increases .
Though there are some hundreds of theories of gravitation Einstein 's is the only one which has predicted a result which has been verified by experience .
On Einstein 's , as on several other theories , changes in gravitational attraction travel with the velocity of light , and also the mass of a body varies with the proximity of other bodies .
In view of the statements in the press about the overthrow of the Newtonian Law , it may be well to point out that it is only in most exceptional cases , cases which are very difficult to realise , that the difference between the effects of the two laws is appreciable .
The modified theory of relativity by which Einstein arrived at this result is of remarkable interest and subtlety .
The space around matter is on this theory distorted by an amount which diminishes as the distance from the matter increases , so that an observer in an aeroplane if he were provided with infinitely delicate instruments would , as he rose in the air , find the shapes of objects on the ground continually changing ; and again the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle would be changed to a minute amount by placing a weight at the centre of the circle .
The laws of morality have been said to be a question of latitude , on Einstein 's view those of geometry are a question of altitude .
On Einstein 's view gravitation is due to a particle trying to find the easiest way through space distorted and disturbed in this way .
We may put it as follows .
The dynamical principle of Least Action , when applied to a particle moving through a space of this kind , would lead to a different path from that which would be pursifed if the space were Euclidean , and this difference in path is that which would be produced if we supposed the space to remain Euclidean and the particle to be acted upon by an appropriate force .
This force is what we call gravitational attraction .
Thus we can represent the effect of this distorted space by the effects of suitable Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. .
forces , and I expect it will be found that even the most enthusiastic rela-tivitists will be tempted to think in terms of forces rather than in those of the geometry of non-Euclidean space .
If the distortion of space were very great , the customary methods of dynamics might lose their significance ; and the question arises will , on Einstein 's theory , the space inside an atom be so far from Euclidean that ordinary dynamical methods are unjustifiable ?
The answer to this question is , " No. " There are two lengths which have special significance in connection with the atom ; one of these is what we call the radius of the atom and is of the order 10~8 cm .
, the other we call the radius of the electron and is about 10"13 cm .
Even at the smaller of these distances the gravitational potential due to the mass of the atom , and therefore the distortion from Euclidean space , would be exceedingly small compared with the corresponding quantities due to Earth at its surface , so that there is no special distortion inside the atom , except at distances from the centre , which are infinitesimal even when compared with the radius of an electron .
One point of interest in connection with any view we take about mass is that , on the electrical theory of matter , the massive part of the atom is invariably positively charged , so that any state of space which we associate with mass ought to involve something corresponding to a positive charge of electricity .
The determination of the consequences of Einstein 's theory on the principles of relativity , where the ideas of space and time are so intimately correlated that time has to be treated as a fourth-space dinlension , introduces us into a space of four dimensions which we cannot visualise , and whose properties are very remote from our experience .
It is this which makes any general explanation of Einstein methods so difficult .
To the analyst the difficulties presented by space of four dimensions are mainly those of an increase in the number of his symbols and equations ; his difficulties begin when he has to explain his results to someone who is not an analyst .
It is a remarkable and most interesting fact , from the point of view of either physics or metaphysics , that from such transcendental considerations as those I have indicated , should have emerged a result so closely connected with such a prosaic thing as that it is more tiring to go upstairs than down .
According to Einstein 's theory the Fraunhofer lines in the Sun must be displaced towards the red .
This effect , though looked for by several observers , has not been confirmed ; but even should it turn out that the theory has to be greatly modified , or even abandoned , its conception and development will , I think , always be regarded as one of the great triumphs of human thought .
318 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
Another interesting consequence of Einstein 's theory is the exceeding minuteness of structure which it demands from matter .
The electron , with a radius of 10-13 cm .
, carried our notions of the minuteness of some constituents of the Universe far beyond those associated with the older atomic theory , but the size of the centres of disturbance , which in Einstein 's theory are associated with matter , bears to the size of the electrons about the same proportion as the size of the smallest particle visible under the most powerful microscope to that of the Earth itself .
I am afraid that the termination of the war has not brought to an end the difficulties in the way of scientific research in this country .
Not the least of these is the difficulty and expense of procuring apparatus .
It is perhaps surprising that under these circumstances the Government should have put obstacles in the way of the importation of philosophical instruments .
Another very real difficulty is that the large increase in the number of students in our universities has greatly increased the educational duties of many of our most active workers , and so diminished the time they can devote to research .
The demands of war required large quantities of substances which previously were only obtainable in small quantities and at great expense .
Prominent among these is helium , which can now be procured on a scale which , measured by Laboratory standards , is unlimited .
Such supplies of helium put cryogenic research on a new footing and render possible investigations which promise to be of the greatest importance to many different branches of Science .
It is greatly to be regretted that in this country , the birthplace of cryogenic research , we have no adequately equipped cryogenic laboratory .
We must now proceed to the presentation of the Medals .
The Copley Medal is awarded to William Maddock Bayliss , F.R.S. Dr. W. M. Bayliss has been engaged in the investigation of physiological problems for the last thirty-five years .
His work has ranged over a wide field .
In his earlier papers dealing with the electrical phenomena associated with the excitatory state in glands and contractile tissues , he brought forward results which were at the time entirely novel and have formed the basis of all subsequent investigations .
His paper with Starling on the electrical phenomena of the mammalian heart was the first to give the correct form of the normal variation , as confirmed by later investigations with the string galvanometer .
His work on vaso-dilator nerves and the part played by them in vascular reflexes , effected a revolution in our conceptions of nerve conduction and i Anniversary Address by Sir J. J , Thomson .
319 showed that the law of Bell and Majendie , previously accepted as of universal application , did not express the whole truth , and that in fact a nerve fibre is normally the seat of processes which are both centripetal and centrifugal .
A third group of researches is represented by those on the innervation , intrinsic and extrinsic , of the intestines .
In conjunction with Starling he showed conclusively that the movements of the intestine are under the control of a local nervous system , and even to the present time the intestines are the only organs in higher animals which have been shown to be the seat of a local nervous system capable of carrying out co-ordinated reflexes .
A fourth group of papers deals with the mechanism of the pancreatic secretion .
Bayliss and Starling showed that this was effected by the production of a specific chemical messenger , which travelled by the blood , and not by the stimulation of nerve endings and the passage of impulses through nerves and the central nervous system .
They showed , moreover , that this secretin was but a type of a whole group of substances which they designated hormones .
The discovery of these hormones and the precise definition of their nature and of the conditions of their activity mark an important epoch in the development of our knowledge of the organs of the animal body .
His researches on the mode of action of enzymes and on the closely related questions with regard to the nature of colloidal solutions , have obtained universal recognition .
His work on the osmotic pressure of colloids , as studied in solutions of colloidal dye-stuffs , is a model of the manner in which such investigations should be carried out .
The war led to Prof. Bayliss making a great advance in practical medicine .
He studied the condition known as shock , which follows great loss of blood .
The condition had previously been treated by the injection of saline solution , but the effect produced was characteristically transitory , and sometimes no benefit accrued at all .
Prof. Bayliss , amongst other things , proved that perfused fluid to be effective must contain colloidal matter sufficient to give the osmotic pressure of the normal colloidals of the blood .
This and other results are given in his admirable work on Shock , which was published in 1918 .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Prof. John Bretland Parmer , F.R.S. , for his researches in botany , especially in the cytology and anatomy of plants .
His work is characterised by the fundamental importance of the problems worked upon ; thus his memoirs on the meiotic phase ( Reduction Division ) in Animals and plants are of as great value to zoologists as to botanists , and his 320 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
conclusions and interpretations of the complex nuclear changes which precede the differentiation of the sexual cells have stood the test of criticism , and remain the clearest and most logical account of these very important phenomena ; during the present year his views have received very full support .
His papers , in collaboration with his pupil , Miss Digby , on the cytology of those ferns in which the normal alternation of generations i\amp ; departed from , has thrown new light on problems of the greatest biological interest , and especially on the nature of sexuality .
Further , in his cyto-logical work on cancerous growths , Prof. Farmer has established the close similarity between the cells of malignant growths and those of normal reproductive tissue .
His physiological work also is of high quality .
His observations on the circulation of protoplasm in plant cells , in the absence of oxygen but in the presence of light , may be referred to , and his most recent work on the waterconducting power of woody tissues opens up a new line of investigation .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Mr. James Hopwood Jeans , F.R.S. Mr. Jeans has successfully attacked some of the most difficult problems , in mathematical physics and astronomy .
In the kinetic theory of gases he has improved the theory of viscosity , and , using generalised co-ordinates , has given the best proof yet devised of the equipartition of energy and of Maxwell 's law of the distribution of molecular velocities , assuming the validity of the laws of Newtonian dynamics .
He has discussed the theory of equipartition of energy from several points of view , and has shown that it inevitably leads to the Rayleigh-Jeans law of distribution of energy in the normal spectrum .
As this law is found experimentally to be true only for long wave-lengths , Mr. Jeans has shown how in this and other cases , where the theory of equipartition is inadequate , the quantum-theory enunciated by Planck supplies the modification necessary to bring theory and observation into accordance .
In dynamical astronomy he took up the difficult problem of the stability of the pear-shaped form of rotating incompressible gravitating fluid , at a point where Darwin , Poincare and Liapounoff had left it , and obtained discordant results .
By proceeding to a third order of approximation , for which very great mathematical skill was required , he showed that this form was unstable .
He followed this up by the discussion of the similar problem when the fluid is compressible , and concluded that for a density greater than a critical value of about one-quarter that of water , the behaviour is generally similar to that of an incompressible fluid .
For lower densities the behaviour resembles that of a perfectly compressible fluid , and with i Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
321 increasing rotation matter will take a lenticular shape and later be ejected from the edge .
He has considered the bearing of these researches on Laplace 's theory of the origin of the solar system , the formation of binary stars and the nature of spiral nebulze .
The Davy Medal is awarded to Prof. Percy Faraday Frankland , F.R.S. , for his investigations in three sections of chemical science .
His early work on the illuminating power of burning hydrocarbons was considerable in amount and had the further merit of inspiring others in the study of combustion .
He was one of the first after Pasteur to study seriously the chemical reactions which occur during the vital processes of numerous lower organisms , and to apply such reactions to the preparation of pure products .
During the last 20 years he has devoted himself to the elucidation of the relationship existing between the chemical constitution and the rotatory power of optically active substances ; the large amount of work which Prof. Frankland and his pupils have carried out on this subject has greatly advanced our knowledge of this relationship .
The Sylvester Medal is awarded to Major Percy Alexander MacMahon , F.R.S. Major MacMahon 's researches on the combinatory analysis and on subjects allied to the partition of numbers are of the highest value , and display great originality and invention .
He has shown equal power in the discovery and treatment of the wonderful ranges of partition theorems which are derivable from the theory of elliptic functions , and of the similar theorems to be obtained by the application of analysis to purely arithmetical principles .
In the difficult and almost untouched field of multiple partitions he has been a solitary worker ; and no other mathematician since Sylvester has shown himself possessed of the special qualifications requisite to penetrate into the structure of number with the combination of insight and mathematical power that is apparent in MacMahon 's papers .
The Hughes Medal is awarded to Dr. Charles Chree , F.R.S. Dr. Chree has for many years devoted himself to the intimate study of the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism , notably those which are recorded by sell-registering instruments .
He has investigated the differences which occur in the diurnal variation on quiet or moderately disturbed days , he has studied the initial stages of magnetic storms , and has investigated various problems connected with the relation of solar phenomena and manifestations of terrestrial magnetism .
These investigations are published in six papers in Drs. E. F. Armstrong and T. P. Hilditch .
the ' Philosophical Transactions/ and a number of others in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society .
' Perhaps the most notable result obtained is that called by Dr. Chree the " acyclic change .
" This manifests itself on taking the averages of quiet days , when it appears that the mean value of the magnetic force is not the same at the end as it was at the beginning of the 24-hourly period , but shows a difference which is always in the same direction .
Owing to his knowledge and unique experience in the interpretation of magnetic curves , Dr. Chree is invariably consulted by explorers in the reduction anc publication of observations obtained in Arctic and Antarctic Expeditions .
A Study of Catalytic Actions at Solid Surfaces .
II.\#151 ; Transference of Hydrogen from Saturated to Unsaturated .
Organic Compounds in the Liquid State in Presence oj Metallic Nickel .
By Dr. E. F. Armstrong , F.I.C. , and Dr. T. P. Hilditch , F.I.O. ( Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S.\#151 ; Received August 18 , 1919 .
) It has been shown in the first part of this series that hydrogenation in the liquid state at a surface of metallic nickel is to be considered as effected by the temporary union of the unsaturated organic compound and of hydrogen with the nickel , followed by a breakdown of this intermediate system into nickel and the saturated compound .
This explanation is a development of the " intermediate compound " theory of catalysis first put forward by De la Rive* and differs from the older view mainly in that it postulates an intermediate system of a very loose unstable type , similar to that produced between the natural enzymes , water ( or oxygen ) , and the compounds attacked by the latter , during enzymic catalysis .
It evidently applies also to other cases of organic compound catalysis , such as the ketonisation of organic acids in presence of alumina , thoria , or other metallic oxides , and the dehydration of alcohols to ethers or olefines in presence of the same class of oxides .
These catalytic actions have , indeed , been so explained by Sabatier and Mailhe , f on the basis of the simple " intermediate compound " theory .
* 'Ann .
Chim .
Phys./ vol. 39 , p. 328 ( 1828 ) .
t 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' vol. 150 , p. 823 ( 1910 ) ; ' Bull .
Soc. Chim./ vol. 13 , p. 319 ( 1913 ) .

