Behaviour of Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
247 It is satisfactory to note that the results obtained with the modern forms of apparatus agree well with one another and do not differ greatly from the theoretical value .
This encourages the hope that henceforth the pendulum may prove as satisfactory in practice as it has always been attractive in theory .
On the Behaviour of Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
By Morris W. Travers , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
, and Francis L. Usher .
( Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1906 .
) A work entitled " Le Point Critique des Corps Purse " has recently been published by E. Mathias , whose opinion on matters relating to the critical state must always carry weight .
In this he discusses at length the various theories which have been put forward to explain certain irregularities observed in the behaviour of substances , which were supposed to be pure , at their critical temperatures .
These irregularities are not accounted for by the simpler theories of Andrews and Van der Waals .
He calls attention to the experiments of certain investigators , which appear to suggest that the currently-accepted values of the critical constants of many common substances may be vitiated , either owing to the time allowed for the establishment of equilibrium between the coexisting phases near the critical point being insufficient , or the temperature at which the dividing surface vanishes not being independent of the relative masses of the two phases at the temperature at which this takes place .
According to I. Traube , substances contain different kinds of aggregates , which he calls " gasogenic " and " liquidogenic " molecules .
It follows that if equilibrium demands that there shall be a certain concentration of these molecules in the vapour and liquid phases respectively , then unless dissociation and association take place instantaneously , there must elapse a time , following any change of condition , before equilibrium can be established between the two phases .
P. de Heen 's theory goes further , and , assuming the existence of such complexes , suggests that it is possible that the concentration of them in the two phases is a function not only of the temperature , but also of the relative masses of the two phases , or , in other words , of the mean specific volume of the system under investigation .
In this case a system 248 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , apparently consisting of a simple substance may be , to take the simplest case , bi variant , instead of being uni variant as is usually assumed .
This last theory may , of course , represent a condition either of true or false equilibrium , and in support of the latter supposition certain indirect evidence is forthcoming .
Brereton Baker has shown that association and dissociation are delayed and accelerated by the presence of minute traces of certain foreign substances .
The dissociation of mercurous chloride , Hg2Cl2 , into 2HgCl takes place so slowly in the absence of water vapour that the vapour density of the dry substance is almost exactly twice that of the chloride , which has not been so thoroughly dried .
It follows that two such samples of mercurous chloride would , at the same temperature , have different vapour pressures , and that if dissociation took place very slowly the intermediate mixtures which would be formed would constitute bivariant systems .
The case in which the velocity of dissociation approaches zero corresponds to that involved in de Heen 's theory ; Traube 's view really involves no new principle .
Whether , however , the views of either of them can be realised experimentally is the question which we have now to consider .
The conclusions which have been drawn from the experimental work on which these theories are based have given rise to a distinction between the temperature at which the surface separating the two phases disappears , which is referred to as the temperature of Cagniard-Latour , and that at which the densities of the substance in those parts of the tube formerly occupied by the two phases become equal , which , as in the case of mixtures , is called the critical temperature .
That the former is a function of the relative masses of the coexisting phases at the moment of the disappearance of the surface is the first consequence of de Heen 's theory , and that the results are markedly influenced by a time factor would follow ' from Traube 's theory .
We find , however , that the results of our own experiments in no sense confirm this conclusion , and in fact support the views of S. Young and others , who are opposed to it .
We have not investigated the second consequence of the theory , that the densities of the two phases do not become identical at the Cagniard-Latour temperature .
However , it appears more than probable that if the first consequence falls to the ground the second will follow it : amongst a considerable amount of experimental evidence in opposition to it , perhaps nothing is more convincing in this respect than Ramsay 's simple demonstration of the equality of the densities of the two phases at the temperature of Cagniard-Latour.* It is worth while quoting some of the experimental results on which * 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 14 , p. 486 .
1906 .
] Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
249 de Heen 's and Traube 's views are based .
The results of Batelli , Zambiasi , Galitzine , and others are given in Mathias ' book , but those of the first named will serve as an example .
They are as follows:\#151 ; Substance .
Date .
Mean specific gravity of substance in tube .
Mean value of Cagniard-Latour temperature .
Alcohol ... % 1891 0 -3195 236 ' -59 0 3448 237 -26 0 -3888 235 -94 0 -3893 235 -67 1892 0 -3439 237 -02 0 -4000 236 -43 Ether 1891 0 -2409 193 -60 0 -2767 193 -44 0 -2889 193 -17 0 -3043 193 -01 1892 0 -2520 192 -63 * 0 -3192 192 -12 It cannot fail to be noticed that these results do not even show an agreement among themselves .
It is common knowledge that it is very difficult to obtain pure dry alcohol , and that only prolonged washing with water will remove the last traces of alcohol from ether .
Our first experiments with ether , which had only been washed a few times with water , led to results similar to those obtained by Batelli .
There is , however , another interesting phenomenon which has been observed in connection with those which take place at the critical temperature .
It appears that Altschul* was the first to observe that in the case of most liquids there appeared at the critical temperature ( Cagniard-Latour ) , at the level in the tube at which the surface vanished , an opalescent band .
His description of the effect is somewhat obscure , and neither from him nor from Wesendonckf have we been able to derive a complete idea of what happens .
As this particular phenomenon appeared to call for further investigation , and as , in spite of much evidence to the contrary , there appeared to exist a doubt as to whether the simple theories of Andrews and Van der Waals were sufficient to account for the changes which take place at the critical temperature , we decided to undertake the experiments which are described in the latter part of this paper .
It suffices to state in advance that in making the observations we employed comparatively large masses of the liquids , enclosed in thin-walled glass tubes , and that particular precautions were taken * 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 11 , No. 189 , p. 578 .
t ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 15 , p. 262 .
250 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour [ June 13 , to obtain them pure , and to introduce them into the experimental tubes without contamination .
Further , arrangements were made for maintaining a very steady temperature , which could be allowed to rise very slowly towards the critical point .
The Phenomena which Accompany Disappearance of the Surface the Critical Temperature .
It must be observed in the first instance that the following phenomena take place at a temperature , or are distributed in the same invariable order over a range of temperature , which is dependent only on the nature of the substance under investigation , and that they appear to be absolutely independent of the relative masses of the coexisting phases .
That is to say , if we consider any part of the process , such as the disappearance of the dividing surface , we find that so long as the mass of liquid in the tube falls within certain limits , it takes place at a temperature which is constant within the limit of accuracy of the experiments , and in our own experiments to within 0o,05 .
If we heat in a glass tube varying masses of a pure liquid , we observe , as we approach the temperature at which the surface of separation vanishes , one or other of the following changes taking place :\#151 ; ( a ) The liquid will have completely evaporated before the true critical temperature is reached , and in this case there is insufficient liquid in the tube .
( b ) The surface will sink towards the bottom of the tube and , at the critical temperature , will disappear at a short distance above it .
( c ) The surface will neither rise nor fall while the tube is heated through the last small temperature-interval and , at the critical temperature , will disappear about the middle of the tube .
( d ) The surface will rise and , at the critical temperature , will vanish near the top of the tube .
( e)The liquid will fill the tube before the true critical temperature is reached , and if the temperature is raised , the tube will probably burst ; in this case there is too much liquid in the tube .
If the conditions described under headings ( ) , ( c ) , and ( d ) are produced in tubes of sufficiently large diameter ( in the case of our experiments about 1 cm .
in diameter and 20 cm .
long ) , the temperature being allowed to rise so slowly that the two phases are brought into equilibrium without ebullition of the liquid phase , the following phenomena will be observed:\#151 ; In case ( b ) , at a temperature slightly below that at which the surface vanishes , the space below the latter will become opalescent , appearing brown by transmitted light and whitish by reflected light .
The effect is not 1906 .
] Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
251 altogether dissimilar to that produced by the action of an oxidising agent on a solution of sulphuretted hydrogen .
The nearer the surface is to the bottom of the tube the more intense is the opalescence .
So long as the surface is still visible the effect is limited to the space below it ; and though it is fairly evenly distributed throughout that space , it is usually slightly more intense just below the surface .
When the surface vanishes , the upper limit to the effect becomes less clearly defined , and if sufficient time is allowed , it becomes diffused throughout the whole tube ; the same result may be arrived at by stirring the contents of the tube by means of an iron stirrer operated by a magnet outside the tube .
When the surface disappears there is observed , in the case of sulphur dioxide , evidence of optical discontinuity between the substance in the tube above and below the point at which this takes place ; it appears , however , to be merely transient in character , and if it does not vanish without the temperature being raised , it is certainly incapable of existence at a temperature 0o,05 above that of the disappearance of the surface .
The opalescence appears to persist over a finite range of temperature ; it sets in , in the case of sulphur dioxide , at 0'T below that at which the surface vanishes , attains a maximum at about 0o,05 above it , and has completely disappeared at a temperature 0'T higher .
In the case of ether the effects persist over about 2 ' .
Under the conditions included under heading the position in the tube at which these phenomena make their appearance is exactly reversed .
The opalescence appears above the surface , and its intensity increases as the latter disappears on approaching the top of the tube .
If , while the tube is being heated through the last small temperature-interval below the temperature at which the surface vanishes , the latter remains stationary , the tube , at the same time , appears slightly and evenly opalescent throughout its whole length .
This corresponds to condition ( c ) .
As we have already stated , the same effect can be produced by stirring the contents of the tube at any moment when the opalescence is observed above or below the surface itself or the point at which it has vanished .
Conditions ( b ) and ( cl)can be reproduced in the following manner .
If , when the condition corresponds to ( c ) , and the temperature is within the range over which the opalescence is visible , the volume of the space containing the substance is increased or decreased so slowly that the temperature is not lowered or raised appreciably , opalescence will appear below or above the surface itself , or the point at which it vanished , and its intensity will be proportional to the space it occupies .
In the case of some experiments which fall under headings ( b ) or ( cl ) it 252 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , was observed that when the opalescence first made its appearance it was most intense immediately below or above the surface .
This effect was only transitory in character , and it appeared as if the material giving rise to it were rapidly distributed , by convection or diffusion , throughout the phase in which it was formed .
Discussion of these Results .
In the first place , our experiments appear to indicate that liquid vapour ( one component ) systems in the neighbourhood of the critical point are univariant , as the simple theory demands .
If complex molecules of different magnitude exist , equilibrium must be so rapidly established between them and the simple molecules as to negative de Heen 's theory , and to render Traube 's theory unnecessary .
We now pass on to consider the phenomenon of opalescence .
The observations of Altschul and Wesendonck* only extended to the formation of an opalescent band at the point at which the surface between the liquid and vapour vanished at the critical point , and their descriptions convey the impression that the phenomenon is much simpler than appears from our experiments .
Bakker 's explanation of the effect , f which he attributes to the thickening of the surface layer as the temperature approaches the critical , is based on their work .
It may be pointed out that in tubes of small bore the transient effect , which was described in the last paragraph of the previous section of this paper , may appear to have a prominent character as an opalescent band replacing the dividing surface .
On considering the facts before us we were drawn to the conclusion that there might be a certain resemblance between the systems we were dealing with and those which constitute colloidal , or so-called " pseudo , " solutions .
The existence of molecular complexes did not appear to be a tenable hypothesis , for reasons which have already been stated ; but the optical effects appeared to point to the presence of non-molecular aggregates .
Before we proceed further , however , it will be well to consider certain views as to the constitution of colloidal solutions which have been put forward by DonnanJ and a suggestion of his with regard to the application of the same theory to the explanation of the appearance of opalescence at the critical temperature .
In dealing with colloidal solutions lie combats the view that their * Loc .
cit. t ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 49 , p. 609 .
J ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 46 , p. 197 .
1906 .
] Certain Substances at tlieir Critical Temperatures .
253 properties are in any way connected with the existence of very large molecules , and considers the conditions under which " one phase of a system would be distributed throughout the other in a state of very fine division " as constituting a different phase .
So far he is , of course , dealing with two component systems , though the nature of the aggregates is not altogether different from those which we shall refer to directly .
At the British Association , in 1904 , Donnan put forward a suggestion " for discussion " as to the conditions which were necessary for the existence of such complexes in a liquid-vapour one-component system in the neighbourhood of the critical point .
He suggests that at the critical temperature the interfacial tension becomes zero for ordinary values of the radius of curvature , but remains positive for very small values , for which it does not become zero till the critical temperature is passed .
Hence we may assume that at temperatures slightly below the critical the interfacial tension is greater for very small radii of curvature than for ordinary curvatures .
Over a range of temperature , including the critical temperature , limited above by the temperature at which the interfacial tension for small radii of curvature becomes zero , and below less sharply , we can imagine that small , non-molecular aggregates , or drops , can be differentiated from either the liquid or vapour phase , and have a stable existence .
To such aggregates can we attribute the phenomenon of opalescence ; and the range of temperature over which it is observed , and the manner of its appearance and disappearance , are in agreement with the assumptions .
The manner in which such aggregates or drops could be formed lies outside the discussion , but it is possible to arrive at an explanation of the fact that the opalescence is confined to the phase which is decreasing in volume , through movement of the dividing surface , or , at least , is more intense in that phase .
Since it is an essential character of the aggregates that they are non-molecular , one cannot imagine them passing from the liquid to the vapour phase by the ordinary process of evaporation , forming for a moment a constituent of the surface layer .
Further , the existence of the aggregates assumes that the interfacial tension at their surfaces is greater than that at the surface dividing the liquid and vapour in the tube , of which the radius of curvature is very large .
Hence , an aggregate in contact with the surface will not coalesce with it , as would a small " drop " with a larger surface under ordinary conditions .
The result would be that , supposing that a certain number of aggregates were formed in either phase , they would remain in that phase so long as they had a concrete existence , and the optical effect to which they would give rise would depend on their dimensions and the number of them in a given space .
254 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , Experimental A Method of Maintaining Constant Temperatures.\#151 ; The apparatus employed was a modification of that described by Eamsay and Young * The experimental tube was enclosed within a vapour-jacket , which was surrounded by two outer tubes , on one of which a scale was ruled .
The top of the jacket was connected with a large air reservoir and a manometer , by means of which the pressure could be measured .
In the experiments with sulphur dioxide the temperatures were determined by reading the pressures and referring to Eamsay and Young 's table of vapour-pressures , but as this does not extend to pressures above 800 mm. , we determined the temperatures corresponding to the higher pressures by means of a Callendar platinum thermometer for which the constants have already been published.f To avoid possible confusion in the future we set down the following data:\#151 ; V apour-pressure Temperature from of aniline .
platinum thermometer .
772-7 185 ' 793-4 186 814-8 187 835-9 188 857-6 189 879-8 190 902-0 191 925-0 192 949-0 193 972-9 194 It is interesting to note that though by using aniline we were able to maintain and to recover temperatures constant to nearly 1 / 50 ' C. , we were quite unable to obtain such good results by employing quinoline , which , boiling under a pressure of about 260 mm. , gives a temperature corresponding to that of aniline boiling under a pressure of 960 mm. This is probably due to the fact that the pressure of the vapour in the apparatus is the sum of the vapour-pressures of quinoline and of mercury , the latter being used to cover the rubber stopper which closes the opening at the bottom of the vapour-jacket , and that the saturation of the space inside the apparatus with mercury vapour is not complete .
The consequent variations in the temperature will be a function not only of the total saturation pressure of the * ' Cliem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1885 , vol. 47 , p. 640 .
f * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , vol. 74 , p. 528 .
1906 .
] Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
255 'mercury vapour at the temperature of the experiment , but also of its relative partial pressure in the mixture .
To guard against accident through the bursting of one of the experimental tubes , the apparatus was enclosed in a cubical box of about one metre on the edge , open at the back , and with an opening covered by a glass plate 2 cm .
thick in front .
On the two or three occasions on which the experimental tube burst , though the vapour-jacket and guard tubes were shattered , no other damage was done .
Experiments with Ether .
Preparation of Pure Ether and Method of Filling the Experimental Tubes.\#151 ; The ether was prepared from pure alcohol by the continuous process .
About 1^ litres of the liquid was washed with caustic soda solution , and was then shaken 25 times with about its own volume of fresh water to remove alcohol .
Rather less than | litre of liquid remained ; this was allowed to stand for a week in a bottle with excess of calcium chloride , and ( after shaking with dilute sodium amalgam to remove traces of ethyl peroxide ) was transferred to a flask containing a large quantity of fine potassium wire .
After a week the liquid was distilled , and though only the middle fraction was collected , the whole mass appeared to evaporate at a temperature which was constant to within 0'*02 to 0a03 .
The experimental tubes , which were of Jena hard glass , were 20 cm .
long , 0'8 cm .
internal diameter , and 1 mm. thick in the walls , and were made in the form shown in fig. 1 .
They were first partially filled with ether by dipping the capillary a into the ether , and alternately warming and cooling .
The tube was then cut off at b , the lower end was then cooled in liquid air while the open end was connected by a rubber tube with a Topler pump .
The tube was then completely exhausted , and the exhaustion was continued while the solid melted .
When the ether was evaporating freely into the pump the tube was sealed at c in a blow-pipe flame .
Fig. 1 .
( Glass thickened at c. ) 256 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , Details of Experiments with Ether.\#151 ; Three tubes were used in these experiments .
The mean specific volume , that is to say , the volume of the tube divided by the mass of ether contained in it , is given below , the three tubes being referred to by the letters A , B , and C:\#151 ; c.c. per gramme .
c.c. per gramme .
c.c. per gramme .
A ... ... .
410 .
B ... ... .
3-96 .
C ... ... .
3-56 .
At the normal temperature , the fraction of the total volume which the liquid occupied was in the three tubes respectively:\#151 ; c.c. per gramme .
c.c. per gramme .
c.c. per gramme .
A ... ... .
0-35 .
B ... ... .
0-37 .
C ... ... 0-41 .
The following are the details of the experiments :\#151 ; Tube and date .
Pressure of aniline vapour .
Temperature , from platinum thermometer .
Remarks .
A mm. 962 -5 193'-57 Temperature falling from above Tc ; mist appeared and 21/ 3 963 -3 193 -60 then liquid , which filled one-fourth of tube ; whole tube opalescent .
Tube cooled and re-heated .
Temperature rising slowly .
Meniscus falling .
Whole 963 A 193 -60 tube very opalescent , liquid more so than vapour .
As the meniscus fell , the region just above it remained more strongly opalescent than the remainder of the tube .
Tube cooled and re-heated .
Meniscus becoming nebulous , and replaced by opales964 -3 193 -64 cent band .
Point of disappearance less than one-fourth from bottom of tube .
Meniscus quite gone ; opalescence very marked , but A .
965-4 193 -70 diffused at point of disappearance .
Ultimately opalescence diffused throughout tube .
Opalescence persisted for at least two degrees above Tc .
At this temperature the meniscus completely vanished , 22/ 3 B 963 -0 193 -59 as at 193 ' *64 on the day before .
The behaviour of the ether in the two experiments was identical .
Meniscus falling very slightly : liquid occupying about 22/ 3 963 -1 193 -59 two-fifths of tube .
Meniscus still slowly falling .
In this experiment the 963-2 193-60 effects observed were similar to , but less marked than in the case of A. Meniscus becoming nebulous , and finally disappearing C 963 '3 193 -60 slightly below two-fifths from bottom of tube .
The whole tube was then opalescent , particularly at point of disappearance of meniscus .
Liquid filling about five-sixths of tube ; vapour much 22/ 3 963 -6 193 -62 more opalescent than liquid .
Meniscus rising and leaving opalescent band behind it .
Meniscus very close to top of tube , becoming nebulous and disappearing , leaving the whole tube opalescent .
1906 .
] Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
Experiments with Sulphur Dioxide .
Source of the Sulphur Dioxide and Method of Filling the Experimental Tubes.\#151 ; The substance was obtained in the first instance from a syphon of the commercial liquid .
Part of the liquid was allowed to evaporate from the syphon , and then a quantity of it , amounting to about 70 c.c. , was introduced into the bulb a ( fig. 2 ) , which contained excess of phosphorous pentoxide , and which was cooled in a freezing mixture .
The stem was then sealed at b , the bulb was removed from the mixture , and about a quarter of the liquid in it was allowed to evaporate , so as to remove all traces of air from the apparatus .
To PU Fig. 2 .
The experimental tube was attached by means of rubber pressure tubing at/ .
When it was in position the whole of the apparatus on the left-hand side of the stop-cock c could be exhausted through the stop-cock which was closed while the apparatus was " washed out " with sulphur dioxide and finally filled .
During the latter operation the experimental tube was cooled in a freezing mixture ; more sulphur dioxide was introduced than it was intended that the tube should eventually contain , the excess being allowed to evaporate into the pump , or to escape into the air through the stop-cock The tube was finally sealed at the constriction while the pressure in it was still below that of the atmosphere .
It will be observed that we have no direct guarantee of the purity of the VOL. lxxviii.\#151 ; a. s 258 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , sulphur dioxide .
But the results of our experiments on the critical behaviour of successive fractions of the same quantity of liquid indicate that they are at least identical in their properties , and with almost equal certainty that they all consist of one and the same simple substance .
Preliminary Experiments with Sulphur Dioxide.\#151 ; In the first set of experiments which we wish to record we employed two sealed tubes about 14 cm .
long ( not counting the length of the capillary portion ) , and 1 cm .
in diameter .
The mean specific volumes of the substance in the two tubes , referred to as A and B , were as follows:\#151 ; c.c. per gramme .
c.c. per gramme .
A ... ... ... 1-75 B ... ... . .
1-67 The tubes were heated as in the case of the experiments with ether in the vapour of aniline , and as the temperatures were deduced by interpolation from the results of Bamsay and Young 's experiments , it is not necessary to set down the corresponding pressures .
In the following experiments the two tubes were heated together in the same vapour-jacket:\#151 ; Temperature .
Remarks on A. Remarks on R. o 18 156 -85 157 2 Liquid occupies 0*34 total volume " 0-07 As the temperature was raised the lie opalescent , the surface in the form was noticed that though the ten constant at any point , equilibriui minutes elapsing before the menii opalescence was attained .
At this temperature the surface in disappearing ; after some minutes tl Liquid occupies 0*40 total volume 0*90 " juid in A and the vapour in B became er rising and in the latter falling .
It [ iperature could be maintained very n was only slowly established , some scus came to rest and the maximum each tube became indistinct , finally le opalescence vanished .
Second Series of Experiments with Sulphur Dioxide.\#151 ; In these experiments arrangements were made for changing the volume of the substance under investigation by means of a compression apparatus , for stirring it by means of a magnetic arrangement during the experiment , and for measuring the temperature of the interior of the tube as well as of the jacket by means of a thermo-electric junction .
The apparatus is shown in section in fig. 3 .
Into a steel cylinder b was screwed a steel tube a , about 150 cm .
long , connected with another horizontal cylinder into which a piston could be forced by means of a screw , so as to decrease the internal volume of the apparatus , which contained mercury .
The experimental tube , which was about 1 cm .
in diameter and 50 cm .
long , was cemented into the plug c , which was screwed into b , the Thermo-electric junctions at top and at lesrel of stirrer .
At bottom of figure four wires should have been shown .
260 Prof. Travers and Mr. Usher .
Behaviour of [ June 13 , junction being made good by means of a leather washer .
The thermo-electric junctions were enclosed inside a capillary tube of very thin Jena hard glass , which was cemented into a screwed plug e , and was so arranged that one junction was at the top of the experimental tube close to the constriction , and another , which was enclosed within the same tube , terminated about 5 cm .
lower down .
The stirrer consisted of a piece of soft iron wire , bent so as to form two circles a little smaller than the inner diameter of the tube , joined by a straight piece about 2 cm .
long , at right angles to them .
The stirrer was operated by means of a powerful electro-magnet , the poles of which lay close to the outer guard tube of the vapour-jacket .
The following is a summary of several independent sets of experiments .
The measurements of the mean specific volumes of the substance in the .experimental tube are only approximate:\#151 ; Temperature at which surface vanished .
Mean specific volume of substance .
Remarks .
o 2 -3 Probably too little liquid in tube .
157 -24 | 2 1 ( a ) When stirred , surface vanished at bottom of tube .
No opalescence .
( l ) When not stirred , optical discontinuity at 12 mm. from bottom .
No opalescence . ?
2 -05 Surface disappeared at bottom of tube .
157 -22 2 -0 Opalescence at surface , 15 mm. from bottom of tube .
On stirring , opalescence was distributed throughout range through which stirrer moved , and optical discontinuity appeared at upper limit of stirring . ?
1 -9 As before .
p 1 -8 Volume was reduced while the temperature was 157'*2 , opalescence became very marked , particularly above j surface , and diminishing in intensity towards top of tube .
Temperature rose to 157'*26 ; on stirring , optical discontinuity moved to upper limit of stirring , and opalescence distributed itself over the same range .
157 -2 1 -9 Volume was increased while the temperature was 157'*2 , when opalescence appeared in liquid , spreading downwards from surface .
Maintaining the temperature steady at 157'*2 , and the volume constant , the opalescence gradually diffused throughout the tube ; after 20 minutes it was impossible to see the window bar through the tube .
157 -26 1 -75 Tube cooled and volume reduced .
On heating to near the critical point the surface now moved slowly upwards , and space above became opalescent .
The range of temperature through which the opalescence was visible lay between 157'*15 and 157''4 , over the whole range of volumes investigated .
In measuring temperatures by means of the thermo-electric junction , either of the junctions could be connected by means of a mercury switch with another junction surrounded with the vapour of bromo-benzene , boiling under normal pressure , the free wires being connected directly to the terminals of a 1906 .
] Certain Substances at their Critical Temperatures .
261 galvanometer .
Observations of the pressures under which the aniline in the vapour-jacket surrounding the experimental tube was boiling , allowing ample time for equilibrium to be established , corresponding to certain readings of the barometer , served to calibrate the instrument .
Before filling the experimental tube mercury was introduced into it to a convenient level , a bell-jar was fitted round it by means of a rubber stopper and the latter was filled with a freezing mixture .
The capillary portion of the tube was then connected with the apparatus shown in fig. 2 , and the correct quantity of sulphur dioxide was introduced in the manner indicated .
Third Series of Experiments with Sulphur Dioxide.\#151 ; In this series of experiments the same apparatus was used as in the last series , but the thermo-electric junction was omitted , and the temperatures were determined directly from the readings of the pressures .
The following are the results :\#151 ; Temperature .
Volume occupied by liquid in tube .
Mean specific volume of substance in tube .
Remarks .
157'-0 2*03 No opalescence ; surface moving downwards .
157 -12 0-12 \#151 ; Opalescence below surface .
157 -3 " in lower part of tube ; surface vanished , but slight discontinuity visible .
Volume reduced ; tube cooled and re-heated .
157 -13 0-68 1 *69 Whole tube slightly and evenly opalescent ; surface almost stationary with rising temperature . ?
\#151 ; \#151 ; Surface vanished .
157 -3 \#151 ; \#151 ; Opalescence increased and uniform .
157 -4 " almost vanished .
Volume reduced ; tube cooled and re-heated .
156-1 0-76 1 *55 No opalescence .
157 -07 0-79 \#151 ; 33 157 -20 0-88 \#151 ; Opalescence above liquid , very strong at surface .
157 -3 Surface vanished , slight discontinuity remaining , with opalescence very strong above it .
On stirring , opalescence became diffused throughout tube .
Volume reduced ; tube cooled and re-heated .
157 -0 0-95 1 *46 No opalescence .
157 -15 Surface nearly at top of tube ; minute space above it opalescent .

