Algebraic Functions and A .
267 u conclusion the author wishes to express his thanks to Professor ing for many suggestions as well as for the facilities which jq enabled the experiments to be carried out .
Subsequent to the writing of the above paper , permeability curves i re been taken , for a ring of the same material , by the ballistic , thod , up to a magnetic force of 25 C.G.S. units .
A comparison of ise taken before and after baking shows that the saturation value , the induction is unchanged by prolonged heating , for although the .her part of the curve , as in the case given above , was much \#166 ; ered , the parts of the curves above a force of 15 C.G.S. units are ictically indistinguishable.\#151 ; May15 , 1898 .
] On the Connexion of Algebraic Functions with Automorphic Functions .
" By E. T. Whittaker , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor A. R. Forsyth , Sc. B. , F.R.S. Received April 23 , Read May 12 .
1898 .
( Abstract .
) If u and 2 : are variables connected by an algebraic equation , they e , in general , multiform functions of each other ; the multiformity uii be represented by a Riemann surface , to each point of w ic \gt ; rresponds a pair of values of u and z. , Poincare and Klein have proved that a variable t exists , of which and a are uniform automorphic functions ; the existence-tlieoiem , iwever , does not connect t analytically with u and When the snus ( genre , Geschlecht)of the algebraic relation is zeio oi unity , in be found by known methods ; the automorphic functions required re rational functions , and doubly periodic functions , in the two case espectively .
But no class of automorphic functions with sinq y onnected fundamental polygons lias been known hitherto , which is pplicable to the uniformisation of algebraic functions whose genus i greater than unity . .
, .
The present memoir discusses a new class of groups of projective ubstitutions , such that the functions rational on a Riemann surface f any genus can be expressed as uniform automoiphic functio i group of this class .
These groups are sub-groups of groups gene-ated from substitutions of period two .
Groups are first considere which can be generated by a number of real substitutions op wo , whose double points are not on the real axis , and whose prot uc n a definite order is the identical substitution .
These groups are bund to be discontinuous , and of genus zero .
A method is given or 2H8 Algebraic Functions and AutomorpFunctions .
dividing the plane into curvilinear polygons corresponding to H a group ; these polygons are simply-connected , and cover complel the half of the plane which is above the real axis .
Sub-groun 'I these groups are found , whose genus is greater than unity , which are appropriate for the uniformisation of any aWh curves .
J ^ Ulc The sides of the polygons , into which the half-plane is divided formed of arcs of circles orthogonal to the real axis .
These may the sense of Lobatchewski 's geometry , be regarded as straight lb One case , where the construction fails , is shown to correspond to limiting case m which Lobatchewski 's geometry becomes Euclid geometry ; the figure then becomes the division of a plane i parallelograms , used in the theory of doubly periodic functions d is appropriate for the uniformisation of algebraic curves of gen umty .
Thus doubly-periodic functions are a limiting case of te class of functions considered .
The automorphic functions of the groups described solve problem of conformally representing a plane , regarded as bound , y a number of finite lines radiating from a point , on a curvilint polygon , whose sides are derived from each other in pairs by u jective substitutions of period two .
This leads to the confer* representation of any ftiemann surface , at each of whose branc points only two sheets are connected , on a curvilinear polygon when sic es are derived from each other in pairs by projective substitution and , as it is known that any algebraic curve can , by birational tran 01 ma ion , e represented on a Riemann surface whose branch-poiu arc all simple , it is seen that the uniformisation of algebraic fun tions of any genus can be effected by groups of the kind described .
no analytical connexion between the variables of the algebra orm and the uniformising variables is given by a different !
equation of the third order .
A certain number of the constants i this equation have to be determined by the condition that the grou sii stitutions associated with the equation leaves unchanged eta am circle .
^ When any arbitrary values are given to these cor s ants the solution of the differential equation is termed a quasi-un omusing vaiiable .
The properties of quasi-uniformising variables and their relation to the uniformising variable , are discussed in tin last section of the paper .

