Oil ci Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the 485 conductivity has been found to be the same as that of their electrical conductivity .
As regards the magnetic permeability of these alloys , the order is very different from that of their electric conductivity .
The most highly permeable alloys are those formed of aluminium and silicon with iron .
In fact , the magnetic permeability of an alloy of iron with '21 per cent , of silicon exceeds that of the best and purest annealed iron up to a field of 10 C.G.S. units .
Still more remarkable is a pure and well annealed alloy of aluminium and iron ; although it contains a considerable percentage of non-magnetic elements , its magnetic permeability and maximum induction up to a field of 60 units exceeds the best and purest annealed iron that I can obtain , a specimen of Swedish charcoal iron containing 99*9 per cent , of iron , all the specimens having been subjected to a precisely similar annealing process .
It is possible the increased magnetic susceptibility given to iron by aluminium , and to a less extent by silicon , may be due to the strong chemical affinity which these elements have for oxygen , whereby any of this gas which might be dissociated in the molten iron would be removed , and the texture of the metal thus rendered closer and more uniform .
In the same way , by combining with the oxygen , they would remove , as my colleague Professor Hartley suggests , traces of oxide of iron , more or less diffused through all iron ; and the presence of which would certainly lower the magnetic susceptibility .
The remarkable magnetic properties of these two alloys , especially of the aluminium-iron alloy , is a matter not only of considerable theoretic interest but obviously is also of great practical importance in electrical engineering .
" On a Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the Ammoccete apparently serving to promote the Circulation of the Fluid in the Brain-cavity .
" By Arthur Bendy , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. , Professor of Biology in the Canterbury College , University of New Zealand .
Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1902 .
The peculiar and apparently hitherto undescribed structures which form the subject of the present communication , were first discovered in the course of an as yet unfinished investigation of the parietal organs in the New Zealand Lamprey australis ) .
The Ammocoete of this interesting species is known to us only through two specimens : Prof. A. I)encly .
On a P of Ciliated Grooves one of these was briefly described by Kner in 1869* ; the other was for many years in the Museum of the Otago University , Dunedin , and was forwarded to me for investigation by the present curator , Professor W. B. Benham , D.Sc .
, to whom I desire to express my indebtedness for his great kindness .
The specimen which I have thus had the opportunity of investigating was labelled in the handwriting of the late Professor T. J. Parker , __ " Ammoccetes stage of Geotria\#151 ; Opoho Creek .
Jany .
, 84 .
Chromic and Osmie .
" It had evidently been preserved with the utmost care , and proved , in spite of its age , to be in an admirable state for histological investigation .
The total length of the specimen was about 57 mm. , and the greatest diameter in the middle 3'5 mm. With a view especially to the study of the parietal organs , the head region was cut into a series of transverse sections by the usual paraffin method , and the sections were stained on the slide ; for staining , carbol-fuchsm proved satisfactory .
, On examination , the sections thus prepared showed not only a well-developed parietal eye and the structures usually associated therewith , but also a pair of conspicuous ciliated grooves lying in the root of the brain in the neighbourhood of the posterior commissure , i hese grooves run longitudinally from the recessus sub-pinealis to the hinder margin of the posterior commissure .
They are most conspicuous beneath the commissure itself ( figs. 1 , 2 ) , in which region they are Fig. 1 .
, Ch. Pl M.b.L. * * " Reise tfer Osterreicbiachen Fregatte Novara urn die Erde , " ' Zoologie , hd .
Fische , p. 421 .
, in the Brain of the lined by a sharply defined epithelium of very long columnar cells , totally different in appearance from the epithelium which lines the remainder of the brain-cavity .
The inner margins of the two grooves in this region touch one another in the middle line .
Their lumina are deeply concave and open widely into the brain-cavity , which is here represented by a rather narrow vertical slit , terminating below Fig. 2 .
in the infundibulum ( fig. 1 , Inf. ) .
Thus the cross-section of the two ciliated grooves lying beneath the posterior commissure has the form of the figure co .
Their lining epithelium , as already pointed out , is conspicuously different from the lining epithelium of the brain-cavity elsewhere .
It is composed of narrow columnar cells with conspicuous nuclei ( fig. 2 ) .
While very short at the margins of the grooves , these cells gradually increase in length towards the middle , so that the lining epithelium is very much thicker in the middle of each groove than it is at the two edges .
The inner surface of each groove is covered by a thick coating of very short cilia .
The transition from 488 Prof. A. Dendy .
On a P of Ciliated Grooves the epithelium which lines the grooves to that which lines the adjacent parts of the brain-cavity takes place abruptly , and there are indications on the latter of very much longer cilia than occur in the grooves .
As far back as 1873 , indeed , Langerhans pointed out in his researches on Petromyzonplaneri that the ventricles of the brain are lined with ciliated cylinder-epithelium.* The upper and inner part of each groove is in this region imbedded in the substance of the posterior commissure ; the lower and outer portion in the mass of cells which forms the inner part of the brain substance ( fig. 2 ) .
Anteriorly the two grooves diverge from one another on the roof of the recessus sub-pinealis , and disappear in the deep crevices between the ganglia habenulae and the side walls of the brain .
Posteriorly they terminate at the hinder margin of the posterior commissure .
Immediately behind this point the choroid plexus of the micl-brain dips down into the aquaeductus Sylvii , or iter , in the shape of a thin vertical lamella , which forms a highly vascular longitudinal septum dividing the upper part of the iter into right and left halves ( fig. 3 ) .
The anterior portion of this septum is visible Fig. 3 .
Ch. PL .
I in sections beneath the ciliated grooves in the region of the posterior commissure ( fig* 1 ) , while it extends backwards throughout the woe or very nearly the whole length of the mid-brain .
Thanks to the kindness of Dr. S. J. Hickson , F.R.S. , Professor of * .
Berielite iiber die Verhandlungen dev Naturfovschenden Gejellschaft zu Freiburg i. B. , ' vol. 6 , Heft 3 , p. 83 .
in the Brain of the Ammoccete .
489 Zoology in the Owens College , I have been able in a striking manner to confirm the results thus obtained in the New Zealand Ammoccete by an investigation of the corresponding organs in one of the European species .
Professor Hickson kindly placed at my disposal for the purposes of this investigation a series of transverse sections , which had been cut a short while before by his assistant , but which he had not yet examined , and I Avas delighted to find in these , without the slightest difficulty , the structures Avhich I had previously discovered in New Zealand .
The Owens College Ammocoete Avas , to judge from the size of the sections , considerably older than the NeAv Zealand specimen , and this possibly accounts for certain differences in the arrangement of the parts under discussion .
It appears also to haA ?
e been treated with osmic acid , Avhile the staining Avas effected by means of iron Brazilin .
The columnar epithelium of the ciliated grooves is perhaps not quite in such a good state of preservation histologically as in the NeAv Zealand specimen , but evidently has much the same character .
Beneath the posterior commissure the grooves are Avidely separated from one another ( fig. 4 ) instead of being in close contact .
Anteriorly ( fig. 5 ) they are I think better defined than in the NeAv Zealand specimen , and the left one can be traced a good deal further forwards Fig. 4 .
Fto* *\gt ; .
Ch. Pl SWpmSMA Jpv : ; \ ill G.H.R. 490 Prof. A. Dently .
On a of Ciliated Grooves than the right , owing apparently to the great development of the right ganglion habenulae , which projects into the brain-cavity and more or less blocks up the angle between roof and side trail .
Posteriorly ( fig. 6 ) they appear to terminate\#151 ; as grooves\#151 ; at about I 'm .
6 .
the level of the hinder margin of the posterior commissure , but a band of long columnar cells appears to be continued backwards for a short distance after their groove-like character has disappeared , so that we find such a band on either side , bordering the narrow opening between the iter below and the cavity of the choroid plexus of the mid-brain above .
The most striking difference as compared with the New Zealand Ammocoete concerns the arrangement of the choroid plexus of the mid-brain , which no longer dips down into the iter in the form of a deep , continuous , vertical septum ( compare figs. 3 and 6 ) .
( Such a septum is , however , simulated in the sections by a mass of gianuat material containing what look like nuclei irregularly scattered tin ough it .
This appearance , which is not represented in the figures , suggests that the septum has undergone degeneration , or possibly the granular mass is simply a coagulum containing the remains of cells shed fi om in the Brain of the the lining epithelium ; it is , however , easily distinguished from the choroid plexus , to which it is attached above , and which has the usual relations .
It seems most likely that the vertical septum , if it ever existed in the European form , has simply been withdrawn upwards in the course of development , to take part in the formation of the extensive tela choroidea which forms the roof of the mid-brain .
) The subject can hardly be dismissed without some attempt to explain the presence of the ciliated grooves , and it is by no means difficult to assign to them a probable function .
Gaskell , as is well known , has endeavoured to prove that the tubular nature of the central nervous system of vertebrates may be accounted for by its derivation from the alimentary canal of an invertebrate ancestor .
He asks , * " On any of the other theories , why is there a nerve tube found with a dilated anterior extremity 1 Why are the cerebral vesicles formed 1 Why the choroid plexuses ?
Why does that tube terminate in the anus 1 Why is there an infundibular prolongation " Without attempting to answer all these questions , I venture to hope that the facts recorded in this communication may throw some light upon the function of the cavities of the central nervous system .
It has already been suggested that these may aid in the process of gaseous interchange .
Thus , H. Blanc " believes that the paraphysis is not a degenerating organ , but is of great importance in connection with the development of the choroid plexus .
Like the last-named , it has probably to do with the gaseous interchanges which are carried on in the cavities of the ventricles .
" !
Now gaseous interchange , or respiration in the widest sense of the term , must obviously be a very necessary function for the nerve-cells .
These cells in the Ammocoete lie , as is well-known , in the inner portion of the brain substance , which forms a thick layer , separated from the fluid in the brain-cavity by the lining epithelium .
Their relative positions are such that gaseous interchange may take place freely between the fluid in the brain-cavity on the one hand , and the grey matter of the brain on the other ; but in order that this interchange may continue effectually two other conditions must be fulfilled : ( 1 ) Means must be provided for removing from the fluid in the brain-cavity the waste matters which it takes up from the brain-substance , and in return providing it with fresh supplies of oxygen and perhaps also of dissolved nutriment ; and ( 2 ) Means must also be provided for maintaining a circulation of the fluid in the brain-cavity itself .
The first of these conditions is apparently fulfilled by the vascular choroid plexus , while the second is , I believe , fulfilled in the Ammocoete to a large extent by the ciliated grooves described above , probably # ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology/ yoL 32 , p. 545 .
t H. Blanc , " Epiphysis and Paraphysis in Salamandra atra/ ' * Arch. Sci. Phys. Not ./ vol. 10 ( 1900 ) , pp. 571-2 .
Abstracted in 4 Journal of Koval Microscopical Society/ June , 1901 , p. 257 .
492 Prof. A. Dendy .
On a P of Ciliated Grooves acting in conjunction with the longer cilia which line other parts of the brain-cavity .
The occurrence of cilia in some part or other of the central nervous system of vertebrates has been so often demonstrated* that it is hardly necessary to discuss other cases here , except to point out that their function is probably in all cases to promote the circulation of the brain-fluid .
As to the choroid plexuses of the vertebrate brain there can , I venture to think , be little doubt as to their importance in promoting the oxygenation of the brain-fluid .
Especially suggestive from this , point of view is the manner in which these plexuses sometimes project into the cavities of the ventricles .
A good example of this is afforded by the vertical septum of the choroid plexus of the mid-brain in the New Zealand Ammoccete , as described above .
This septum is highly vascular , and it is extremely significant that the ciliated grooves are so arranged as probably to direct a stream of brain-fluid along each side of it .
Whether the direction of this stream is forwards or backwards , it is of course impossible to say without direct experiment .
Personally , I am inclined to think that it will be found to flow forwards , and that the ciliated grooves may be looked upon as special organs for conveying an abundant supply of oxygenated fluid to the forepart of the brain ( especially , perhaps , to the right ganglion habenulae , which , , as is well known , is enormously developed in the Lamprey , and apparently fulfils some important function in connection with the parietal organs ) .
In the young Ammocoete the first choroid plexus , which may be supposed to be especially concerned in the respiration of the fore-brain , is not yet developed ; the second and third choroid-plexuses , belonging respectively to the mid- and hind-brain , are , on the other hand , already extensive .
We need not , therefore , be surprised to find that the fore-brain at this stage is dependent to a large extent for its means of respiration , and perhaps also for its nutrition , upon the choroid plexus of the mid-brain , and that a special apparatus is developed for securing a forward flow of the necessary fluid in the brain-cavity .
With regard to this fluid itself it is interesting to note in this connection the recently expressed opinion of Minot :T The pineal region develops a series of structures , which , from their anatomical characteristics , appear to be directly concerned in the formation of the fluid in the cavities of the brain .
We may assume that the choroid plexus supplies the main bulk of the fluid , but the gland-like organisation of the epiphysis and of the paraphysis indicates that they supply by secretion special chemical substances to t e encephalic fluid .
" * See for example Klein , 'Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , vol. 20 , Betzius , * Biologische Untersuchungen/ Never Folge , vol. 0 , p. \gt ; e r ' Anatomischer Anzeiger/ vol. 3 , p , 902 .
+ * American Journal of Anatomy/ vol. 3 , No. 1 , p. 96 .
in the Brain of the 493 Considering how much attention has of late years been devoted to the study of the Lamprey 's brain , it seems almost incredible that such definite structures as the ciliated grooves described above should have hitherto escaped observation .
I have , however , been unable to find any reference to them in the literature available .
It remains to be seen whether or not they occur in the adult .
I am inclined to think that they probably disappear when the development of the first choroid plexus renders their presence no longer necessary , and such circulation of the fluid in the cavity of the brain as is requisite may be safely left to the cilia lining other parts .
Ahlborn* figures a transverse section of the brain of Petromyzon planeritaken in the region of the posterior commissure , but makes no mention of the structures in question .
Gaskellf also figures a transverse section through the corresponding region of the brain of what he terms " an Ammocoetes immediately after its metamorphosis , " without giving any indication of the ciliated grooves .
It seems highly probable , then , that they are really absent in the adult animal , and that their loss is to be looked upon as another of those striking changes which accompany the transformation of the larval Ammocoetes into the adult Pe in Europe , or the closely allied Geotria in New Zealand .
Much more remarkable than the apparent absence of the ciliated grooves in the adult is the fact that they seem , so far as I have been able to discover , to have entirely escaped the notice of those investigators who have so minutely described the development of the Lamprey .
Thus in the beautiful memoirs of Shipley J and scots I can find noreference at all to any such structures .
The general appearance and structure of the ciliated groo\ es forcibly call to mind the occurrence of more or less similar organs in other divisions of the animal kingdom .
" YY e may , for example , compare them physiologically with the siphonoglyphs of Alcvonarians , the ambulacral grooves of Echinoderms , and the endostyle of Amphi-oxus and the Tunicates .
It is generally admitted that the function of all these organs is to bring about the movements of fluids in definite directions , and by analogy we may , I think , pretty safely conclude that a similar function is performed in the case under discussion .
One is also tempted to institute a physiological comparison with the ciliated tubes in connection with the brain of the Nemertines , but in the present state of our knowledge such a comparison can be of but little value .
* Ahlborn , " Untersucliungon uber das Gehirn der Petromyzonten , ' Zeit .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 39 , p. 191 , Plate 14 , fig. 26 .
f Gaskell , " On the Origin of Vertebrates from a Crustacean-like Ancestor , ' Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , ' vol. 31 , N.S. , p. 379 , Plate 25 , fig. 3 .
X Shipley , " On some Points in the Development of Petromyzon flnvmtilis , ' Quart .
Jomrn .
Micros .
Sci. , ' vol. 27 , N.S. , p. 325 .
S Scott , " Notes on the Development of Petromyzon , " c Journal oi Morphology , vol. 1 , p. 253 .
494 On a Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the Probably , however , the closest physiological parallel is really to be found in the ciliated groove which , according to Beard , is to be found lying " at the base " of the neural tube in the embryos of nearly all vertebrates , * and which also doubtless serves to promote the circulation of the fluid in the cavity of the central nervous system .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
All the figures , except fig. 2 , were drawn with the aid of the camera lucida under Zeiss objective A , with eyepiece No. 3 .
Fig. 2 was drawn with the aid of the ^camera under Zeiss objective D , eyepiece No. 3 .
Fig. 1 .
Transverse section of the brain of the New Zealand Ammoccete through the region of the posterior commissure .
Fig. 2 .
Portion of similar section of the same specimen a short distance in front of the last , showing the histological structure of the ciliated grooves .
Fig. 3 .
Transverse section of the sam specimen just behind the posterior commissure , showing the ingrowth of the choroid plexus of the midbrain to form a vertical septum .
Fig. 4 .
Transverse section of the brain of the Owens College Ammocoete through the region of the posterior commissure .
Fig. 5 .
Similar section through the region of the recessus sub-pinealis .
Fig. 6 .
Similar section at about the level of the hinder margin of the posterior commissure .
Explanation of Lettering.\#151 ; Are .
T. , arachnoidal tissue .
C.G. , ciliated groove .
Ch. PL , choroid plexus .
Com. P. , posterior commissure .
G.H.R. , right ganglion habenulae .
Inf. , Infundibulum .
Iter , aquaeductus Sylvii or iter .
M.b.l. , left Meynert 's bundle .
M.b.r. , right Meynert 's bundle .
M.C. , connective tissue brain case ( membranous cranii ) .
R.S. , recessus sub-pinealis or infra-pinealis .
Tr. , trabeculae cranii .
V. 3 , third ventricle .
* ' Anatomischer Anzeiger,5 vol. 3 , pp. 902 , 903 .

