490 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
The Sensitiveness bromine as 63 ' , whereas we have found the boiling point of specially purified samples to be very close to 58'9 ' .
( See Ramsay and Young , ' Trans. Chem. SoC .
, ' vol. 49 , p. 454 et seq. ) " The Sensitiveness of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
" By Major-General J. Waterhouse , I.S.C. ( late Assistant Surveyor-General of India ) .
Communicated by Sir W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 31 , 1900 .
During some recent investigations on the Daguerreotype process , the question presented itself as to which of the elements forming the sensitive surface of the plate\#151 ; the silver or the halogens\#151 ; the sensitiveness was due 1 Now , although the fact that nearly all compounds of silver , especially the haloids , are more or less sensitive to , and decomposed by , the action of light , has long been known , the sensitiveness of metallic silver itself to light , though observed in 1842 , by Moser , has never been generally recognised either by chemists or by photographers .
Moser 's Experiment.\#151 ; Before describing my own experiments , it may be as well to give a description of Moser 's experiment taken from the original paper in ' Poggendorff 's Annalen , ' vol. 56 , 1842 , p. 210 .
" A perfectly new silver plate was thoroughly cleaned and polished .
A black tablet with various excised characters was fixed above it , without touching it , and the whole placed in the sun for two hours or more and directed towards it .
After the plate , which naturally did not show the least change , was cooled , it was held over mercury , heated as usual to about 60 ' R. ( 167 ' F. ) .
To my great delight a distinct image of the screen was produced in which those parts where the sunlight ( which during the course of the experiments was always weak and changeable ) had acted , had attracted a quantity of mercury .
This interesting experiment was repeated several times with the same result .
Sometimes the plates after having been placed in the mercurial vapours were exposed to those of iodine and then placed in the sun , by which the images usually improved .
" " If we compare this remarkable fact of the action of light upon surfaces of silver with the above-mentioned phenomena produced by contact , we can no longer doubt that light acts on all bodies , modifying them so that they behave differently in condensing the vapours of mercury .
A similar experiment was made with copper during unfavourable weather .
The copper was not well polished , and , consequently , the image produced by the mercurial vapours was faint , although clearly visible .
By exposing the plate to the vapour of iodine the image became stronger , and this method was found useful in experiments with copper .
A plate of clean mirror-glass was .
of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
491 exposed in the same way to light and the action was as plain as on the silver , if the glass were afterwards breathed upon , the image remaining visible for a long time afterwards .
We may therefore assume that light ads on all bodies , and its influence may be tested by vapours that adhere to the substance or act chemically upon it " Robert Hunt 's Views.\#151 ; Although Robert Hunt recorded these experiments in his ' Researches on Light , ' he does not seem to have repeated them as regards the direct action of light upon metallic silver , but to have paid more attention to Moser 's experiments on the images produced by contact or proximity of dissimilar substances , and his theory of invisible light , as well as the effects of heat .
Hunt 's own experiments were chiefly carried out on copper plates , and led him to attribute Moser 's results to calorific or thermic radiations rather than to light .
Knorr , Karsten , Grove , and others seem also to have investigated Moser 's theories , but again without taking notice of the fact of images , either directly visible or developable , being produced on metallic silver by the direct action of light .
I have not been able to find a record of a visible action of light upon ordinary silver plate , though its occurrence should be well known to silversmiths .
Carey Lea 's Observations\#151 ; Carey Lea found that the three forms of allotropie silver he obtained were all sensitive to light : A the red soluble , and B the dark brown or blue insoluble variety , becoming brown after some hours ' exposure , while C , the golden coloured , became lighter by exposure.* EledrolyticallyDeposited Silver.\#151 ; In a series of electrolytic experiments made in Calcutta , in 1892 , 1 found that a golden-yellow or light olive-coloured deposit of silver on the cathode plate ( silver or platinum ) of a decomposition cell formed with two pure silver plates , as anode and cathode , or with a silver anode and platinum cathode , in distilled water , through which a weak current was passed , was slightly sensitive to light and became lighter in colour by exposure .
This seems to confirm Carey Lea 's observation , if my golden-yellow silver deposit was analogous to his C-product .
My deposit being made by electrolysis of pure silver in fairly pure distilled water , must have been nearly pure silver with no traces of foreign sub-j stances beyond those contained in the silver or the water , unless there was a small amount of occluded hydrogen , which other experiments of the same series , but with a stronger current , showed might j not be impossible .
Photo-electrical Observations in Calcutta.\#151 ; In another series of observations on the electrical action of light upon silver made in Calcutta about the same time , and published in the ' Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , ' Part II , No. 1 , for 1893 , I found that the action of * ' PKil ; Mag. , ' Ser. 5 , vol. 32 , p. 337 ( 1891 ) .
492 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
Sensitiveness bright sunlight on a plate of almost pure silver , as indicated by a very sensitive Rosenthal galvanometer , was to make the exposed half positive to the unexposed , or as zinc to copper , which would seem to point to some slight oxidising action .
The observation , however , was a difficult one , not readily repeated with certainty , and no very definite result was obtained .
The currents observed did not appear to be due to unequal heating of the two halves of the plate , because the direct application of heat to the exposed side produced at once a clearly marked current in the opposite direction .
This effect was always the same , and could be readily repeated .
' In further observations of the same series , in which pairs of pure silver plates were partly immersed in distilled water or .
good tap water , one plate being exposed to light while the other was covered , as in Becquerel 's electric actinometer , the current in nearly all cases , though small , was as above , the exposed plate being positive to the unexposed , as it generally was when the silver plates were placed in dilute sulphuric , nitric , phosphoric , or hydrochloric acids .
Confirmation of Moser 's Observation.\#151 ; Recent observations of the action of light upon silver , made in connection with the working of the Daguerreotype process , have fully confirmed Moser 's observation quoted above , and shown that silver , when exposed under ordinary conditions , shows distinct sensitiveness to light , and that not only can an invisible developable image be obtained , as was done by Moser , but by prolonging the exposure printed-out impressions are produced which are clearly visible after exposure .
The difficulty is to make sure of obtaining a surface of pure silver , free from the presence of condensed gases or other foreign matter which might affect the plate and give it a sensitive surface .
The silvered glass plates used have generally been cleaned and polished with well-washed tripoli , and the metal plates in the same way , sometimes after being well cleaned with fine emery paper , and , in some cases , after making the metal red hot .
Various Silver Surfaces Sensitive to Repeated observations with silver surfaces of different kinds , pure silver plates and foil , silver leaf on varnished glass , Daguerreotype plates and silvered glass , have shown that by an exposure in bright sunshine of about half an hour to one or two hours , under an ordinary black and white negative , or a cut-out design , photographic images can be obtained , which are sometimes clearly visible after exposure , under favourable conditions .
Development of Images on Plain Silver Plates .
Whether visible or invisible , these images can be developed by the vapour of mercury , or by ordinary physical development with acid solutions of ferrous sulphate or pyrogallic acid , to which a little silver nitrate is added , as in the old wet collodion process .
The images were also produced when the negatives or cut-out masks were separated from the silvei surfaces of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
493 by sheets of thin mica , which , as Dr. W. J. Russell , F.R.S. , has shown , stops the action of vapours upon a sensitive gelatine dry plate , and no doubt would do so upon a silver plate .
As a rule , the mica itself makes no difference in the action of light , and is quite transparent to it , though , in some cases , it may exercise a slight retarding action .
It was found , however , that when the silver surfaces were exposed to light in hydrocarbons , such as fluid paraffin , benzene , turpentine , \amp ; c. , no action took place under the parts screened by mica , though the fluids were perfectly clear and colourless .
Under ordinary conditions of exposure in a printing frame , the mica appeared to exercise no special influence upon the plates , except at the cut edges , as will be noticed further on .
Effects of Pressure.\#151 ; That the images were not produced by differences of pressure was proved by leaving the mica screen , with the cut-out black paper design at its back , in contact with a polished silvered glass plate in darkness for twenty-four hours .
There was no visible image , but on development with mercury vapour the mercury was deposited fairly evenly all over the plate , except just where the outside edges of the mica and the edges of some initials cut in it had been in contact with the silver .
Here there was very little deposit , and the edges appeared as dark lines on a white ground .
There was no sign of the black paper design .
The fact that the images were readily obtained from ordinary black and white photographic negatives is further evidence against the results being due to pressure .
First Experiment with Silver Leaf.\#151 ; My first experiment was made on the 14th August last with a piece of silver leaf laid down on a plate of glass coated with varnish , and exposed in the sun for a short time under a plain cut-out cardboard screen .
On developing with mercury vapour a faint image was visible , the mercury having deposited on the part exposed to light .
Next day the experiment was repeated .
A similar plate was exposed under a black and white gelatine negative of some lace for half an hour in bright sunshine .
On developing with mercury , a very distinct , though faint , image of the lace pattern was produced , the mercury again depositing on the parts exposed to light , as in Moser 's experiment .
Effect on Polished Silvered Glass.\#151 ; Thinking that these results might be partly due to some action of light upon the varnish underlying the silver leaf , a piece of polished silvered glass was exposed under the same negative for about an hour .
Again a distinct image was developed with the mercury , but partly positive and partly negative .
A somewhat similar result was obtained on another plate developed with the ordinary acid iron and silver developer already noticed .
Effect on Pure Silver Plate.\#151 ; The next experiment was with a piece of nearly pure silver plate , carefully cleaned with " Globe " polish , and 494 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
Sensitiveness washed with benzene to remove all greasiness .
After half an hour 's exposure in dull sunlight and development with mercury , an image was produced similar to the two first on silver leaf , the mercury had deposited upon the exposed parts .
These experiments with three different forms of silver surfaces and two methods of development , all giving results similar to those obtained by Moser , seemed at any rate to prove the correctness of his observation , and the sensitiveness of ordinary forms of silver to light .
With the exception of the first , the foregoing trials were all made with a black and white negative on glass .
Others were then made with cut-out black paper screens and with like results .
... .
Observation of Printed-out Visible Image.\#151 ; The first observation of an image visible on the silver surface after exposure and without any development was on a plate of nearly pure silver , cleaned with tripoli and ammonia , .polished off with dry tripoli , and exposed on the 21st August for about half an hour in sunshine under a black paper cut-out screen .
The parts exposed to light appeared lighter than the unexposed , but on development the mercury was deposited upon the unexposed parts .
In this case , the surface may have been affected by the ammonia used in cleaning , but it is also likely that the black paper used for the mask exercised some effect , as was afterwards found to be the case .
Another silver plate exposed for the same time under the same cutout mask , but separated from it by a sheet of mica , did not show the visible image after exposure , though an image was readily developed with mercury vapour . .
' A day or two later , on the 24th August , the same experiment was repeated upon a plate of silvered glass exposed in the sun for half an hour under the cut-out mask , with a mica screen between it and the [ silvered surface .
The image of the black paper design could be faintly but distinctly discerned in a suitable light , again appearing dark upon a lighter ground .
Development with acid iron and silver -brought out clearly the images of the paper mask , and- of some letters cut out of the , mica screen , as well as the edges of .
the mica screen itself .
A piece of silvered1 glass was then exposed for forty-five minutes under the same black and white negative as used in the first experiments , the silvered surface being protected from , , contact ; with the negative by a mica screen .
In this case also a faint image was visible after exposure .
: .
v ' ' - \ J t I , Several other prints , both from the lace negative and the paper masks/ were made on silvered glass with longer exposures , so as to obtain a distinctly visible image , and it was then found that there was ia tendency to reversal of the .image when developed with mercury of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
495 vapour , i.e. , the mercury deposited upon the unexposed parts instead of upon the exposed .
In one plate the image thus produced from the negative of lace , exposed for two hours in the bright August sunshine , has quite the appearance of an ordinary Daguerreotype picture on an iodised silver plate , though no halogen or other sensitiser was used .
Further trials of prolonged exposures of pure silver foil or plates carefully cleaned with dry Tripoli powder have given very distinct printed-out images on the metal , so that there is no doubt about the fact that visible images can be produced on clean plain silver surfaces by light .
Blue Rays found to be Active.\#151 ; In order to ascertain , if possible , what rays were active in producing these visible images upon the silver , and as it was hopeless to expect to obtain satisfactory results from observations with the solar spectrum , a slip of silvered glass was exposed under a small artificial spectrum of seven coloured glasses .
After forty-five minutes ' exposure in sunshine , very faint images of the violet and cobalt blue glasses were distinguishable , but showed more distinctly when breathed upon .
A similar result was obtained upon a pure silver plate , and on developing with acid iron and silver the space exposed under the cobalt blue glass developed out quite clearly , with traces of the .
violet and blue-green glasses .
This result quite agrees with an observation made by Moser that only the blue and violet rays have any influence on pure silver , for he obtained very dear images by means of glasses of these colours , while only traces could be rendered visible when red glasses were employed , although they transmit more light and heat .
On another silvered glass plate , exposed under a similar colour screen or artificial spectrum , consisting of fifteen coloured glasses , for three hours in bright sunshine , the image has apparently reversed by over-exposure , the mercury being deposited on the spaces exposed under the red , orange , yellow , and yellow-green glasses , but not on those which were under the blue-green , blue , and violet glasses .
Developable Images produced on Silver by Heat.\#151 ; As we have seen , Robert Hunt was inclined to attribute Moser 's results to the effect of heat or differences of relative temperature , rather than to light or solar radiations , but his experiments were mostly carried out on copper , which is , as I have found myself , much more sensitive to rays of low refrangibility and to heat than silver .
Towards the end of September , when the weather was much cooler than it had been at the commencement of my experiments in August , I found that there was a distinct falling off in the sensitiveness of the silver surfaces , and it seemed that Hunt 's view might , at any rate to some extent , be correct* I therefore tried an experiment to see if the same developable images could be obtained by heat as by light .
A silvered glass plate was polished and put into a printing frame with 496 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
Sensitiveness the cut-out paper mask and mica screen , in which were cut-out initials , just as if it were going to be exposed in the sun , but it was gently warmed for about five minutes over a spirit lamp , and then developed with mercury .
The cut-out initials and edges of the mica came out distinctly in dark lines , just as they did in the pressure experiment but there was also a clear image of the black paper mask , which developed lighter than the ground , by the deposition of mercury , or the opposite of the ordinary action of light .
This is a very interesting observation , but recent repetitions of it with silvered glass plates and clean silver foil have quite failed to give such a distinct image of the black paper , though traces of it have been visible , and the edges of the mica and of the cut-out initials were always clearly impressed .
In one case , when the silver foil was well heated to redness on both sides before being placed in the printing frame and the subsequent heating , no image of the initials was obtained , and only part of one edge of the mica screen with a faint trace of one corner of the paper mask where there was extra pressure .
From this it would seem that hea , t does not play any active part in the production of the images , though the higher temperature of the summer sunshine , as well as its greater actinic power , may accelerate their formation by light .
This is to a certain extent proved by the fact that the most perfect printed-out image obtained on a pure silver plate was exposed for three days at the end of September , when the thermometer exposed in the sun at the same time did not rise above 64 ' F. , so that there could have been no question of heat producing the effect , as there might have been under the hot , clear sunshine of August .
Protection from Air.\#151 ; In most of the experiments the plates were protected by glass during exposure , so that the outer air had no direct access to them .
When plates were exposed under mica screens and without the protecting glass , the outside unprotected surface became distinctly yellow and tarnished during long exposures .
Under Surface of Silvered Glass Plate not Sensitive.\#151 ; In order , however , to ascertain the effect of cutting off all atmospheric action on the exposed side , a silvered glass plate was exposed from the back or glass side under a cut-out mask made of thin aluminium sheet , and exposed for four days in October , two days being sunny and two cloudy .
There was no visible image on either side of the plate after exposure , but breathing showed an image on both sides .
The plate was then developed with acid iron and silver , and showed the image not very distinctly , but as development was prolonged traces of it appeared at the back of the silver film quite clear of deposit , so that apparently the developer had worked through the protected parts of the film , while the exposed part had taken the deposit of silver .
When the plate Was dry there was , curiously enough , no trace of the image on either side of the plate .
of Silver and of some other Metals Light .
497 This experiment was repeated in January , two silvered glass plates being exposed face to face for fifteen days , of which five or six were sunny and the rest fairly bright , with the object of also seeing whether an impression could be made through the upper plate on to the silvered surface of the under one .
On developing with mercury , a fairly clear image of the cut-out design was obtained on the inner surface of the exposed plate , dark on a lighter ground , but neither on the outer exposed silver surface of the upper plate nor on the silvered surface of the lower plate was there any trace of an image .
The experiment was repeated with a similar result .
The only other case in which images have been obtained through the silvered film was on a plate partly fumed with hydrogen peroxide and developed with mercury , but much overdone .
As far as they go , the experiments show that the visible image is not produced on the silver except more or less in contact with the air .
Further trials in bright sunshiny weather are required to prove this .
Images formed on Both Sides of Exposed Glass Plate.\#151 ; In connection with this action through glass , a curious result obtained on a plain glass plate may be mentioned .
A piece of clean glass plate was exposed for a day and a half in October under the same aluminium screen , with another glass plate over it , so as to protect the surface from the air .
It showed a clear breath image , but mercury vapour did not produce any image .
Iron development , however , brought out part of the design very clearly , the silver depositing upon the unexposed parts and giving an image darker and clearer than the ground .
The image of the design appeared by breathing on both sides of the exposed glass plate , so that the action of light went through both plates .
Effect produced on Varnished Silver Glass.\#151 ; With the same object of ascertaining whether the images could be produced when the silver surface was protected from the air by varnish , a silvered glass plate was coated over one half with photographic negative varnish and then exposed in the usual way , under the cut-out paper mask and mica screen , in October .
After exposure for- two days the image of the black paper mask , the cut-out initials , and edges of the mica screen were not reproduced so clearly as usual , though they appeared readily enough on the unvarnished half when breathed upon .
The distinct heightening of the effect under the varnished part is apparently due to some chemical combination , probably oxidation , or the formation of an organic silver compound sensitive to light .
When the var nish is removed , the strong image remains , and there is a distinct change of colour in the exposed part of the silver surface , which takes a sort of yellowish olive-grey tint .
Recent repetitions of the experiment with silvered glass and with a plate of nearly pure silver gave exactly the same results .
It may lie noted that with iodised silver plates the same varnish has been found to exercise a decidedly retarding effect on printed-out images .
vol. lxvi .
2 q 498 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
Sensitiveness Probable Cause of the Effects described.\#151 ; As regards the cause of the peculiar effects described , and the nature of the visible and invisible but developable images produced by the action of light upon plain silver surfaces , it is very difficult to give any definite opinion .
It would seem that in this , as in most photographic processes , the first action of light is principally molecular , but if the exposure be prolonged and takes place in the air under ordinary conditions , there is a certain chemical decomposition of the surface of the plate , and the impressed image becomes distinctly visible .
Moser.__Moser was of opinion that the action of light does not necessarily consist in the separation of two chemically combined bodies , even in the Daguerreotype , in which process he maintained there is no separation of iodine from silver under the action of light .
( We now know that the iodine evolved is absorbed by the underlying silver .
) He brought forward his experiments on pure surfaces of silver , where , he says , there can be no possibility of a chemical action , to show that the effects of the Daguerreotype could be produced in quite a different way .
Waidele.\#151 ; Waidele , * although he does not refer to Moser 's observation of the direct action of light upon silver , and concerns himself more with the contact actions attributed to invisible light , concludes that Moser 's effects are not produced by any action of invisible light , but must be rather explained by the action of atmospheres on bodies and the absorption of gases .
He points out that polishing powders , such as tripoli , charcoal , \amp ; e. , ordinarily contain moisture and absorbed gases , for which they have a strong attraction , and if used in this state they give up these vapours to the surface polished .
If , however , they are heated to a red heat to drive off all moisture and gases , they then act as absorbents , drawing out the moisture and gaseous impurities from the surface of the metal , and producing a far purer and more perfect polish .
He also notes the effect of carbonic acid , hydrogen , and other vapours on iodised silver Daguerreotype plates .
So far as my experiments go , I do not think that the nature of the polishing materials has had much influence on the results obtained , though it is an interesting point which should be looked into .
Roscoe.\#151 ; Roscoe t also attributes the Moser effects to absorbed gases , and says Almost all of the singular phenomena first investigated by Moser , and ascribed by him to the action of latent light , may be more rationally explained by the authenticated facts of the absorption of gases by solid bodies .
" He also refers more particularly to the contact or " breath " images produced by laying coins , \amp ; c. , upon polished plates of metal .
Action of Gases.\#151 ; -It is evident that if there be any chemical action * ' Pogg .
Ann. , ' vol. 59 , 1843 .
f Watts ' Dipped , of Chem. , IT , 1872 , p. 805 .
of Silver and of some oilier Metals to Light .
on the silver under the influence of light , it must be produced by the agency of gases or vapours contained\#151 ; ( i ) In the silver itself .
( ii ) In the layer of air or condensed gases in immediate contact with the plate .
( iii ) In the surrounding atmosphere .
( iv ) In the masks or coverings under which the exposures are made .
What the exact nature of the decomposition may be , and to which of these agencies it is attributable , is not easy to ascertain , nor does the appearance of the visible image give much clue to it .
From the dull-grey colour of the exposed parts it seems , however , probable that oxygen plays an important part in the action ; but whether the oxygen is drawn from the air or is disengaged from the metal itself , or whether both actions take place with interactions of other gases occluded in the metal itself or present in the atmosphere in contact with its surface , there is nothing so far to definitely show .
It seems also probable that , as in many other photographic processes , the presence of watery vapour is necessary to bring about the decomposition .
These points require further investigation at a time of the year when the light is bright and the effects can be observed under the most favourable conditions .
From the fact that in most of my experiments the external air has been excluded by the outer glasses of the printing frames , we may , I think , conclude that the effects are due more to the gases or vapours occluded in or attached to the silver surface or to the screens , rather than to any outside atmospheric influences .
Oxygen found in Silver by Graham.\#151 ; With regard to the presence of oxygen in silver , Graham found that silver heated and allowed to cool in oxygen could occlude 0'745 volume of oxygen , which was permanently fixed in the metal at all temperatures below an incipient red heat .
It did not tarnish the bright metallic surface of the silver or produce any appearance suggestive of the oxidation of a metal .
He further showed that silver in the form of sponge can occlude 8 volumes of oxygen without any visible tarnish .
Silver appears to have a relation to oxygen similar to that exhibited by platinum , palladium , and iron to hydrogen .
Silver can also occlude variable quantities of hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbonic acid.* Dwmas 's Observations.\#151 ; According to Dumas , t 1 kilo , of pure silver , prepared by fusion with borax and nitre , was heated in a vacuum to a temperature not exceeding a dull red , about 500 ' or 600 ' C. The evolution of gas continued for about six hours , and it was received over mercury .
The gas given off was pure oxygen , amounting to 47 c.c. at 0 ' , and 760 mm. of pressure for 1 kilo , of silver , and * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1866 , p. 434 .
t 6 Comptes Rendus de l'Aead .
France/ yoL 86 , 1878 , p. 69 .
500 Major-General J. Waterhouse , On Sensitiveness weighing 82 milligrammes .
In two other experiments , in which silver was fused in a more oxygenated atmosphere , as much as 158 c.c. of oxygen , weighing 226 milligrammes , and 174 c.c. , weighing 249 milligrammes , were obtained from 1 kilo , of pure silver in each case .
He found also that silver which contains oxygen does not lose it all in a cold vacuum .
Mallet 's Observations.\#151 ; Professor J. W. Mallet , in some investigations on the Atomic Weight of Aluminium , notes these results obtained by Dumas , and states that in his own observations of the same kind , but using a lime support for the silver heated in a hard glass tube to a moderate redness , he obtained only 34-63 c.c. of oxygen from 1 kilo , of silver.* * These different observations show that silver , apparently pure , may contain a very considerable quantity of oxygen , and I believe it is a well-known fact , especially in the Mints , that oxygen is nearly always present in silver , with or without hydrogen , carbonic acid , and other gaseous impurities in much smaller quantities .
Whether occluded oxygen is the cause of the photographic effects produced on surfaces of apparently pure silver , might readily be proved by extracting all the oxygen from a silver plate by the above methods , and then exposing the resulting purified silver to light , a similar plate from which the oxygen had not been extracted being exposed at the same time .
I have not the appliances at my disposal for making this experiment .
Effects of Heating Silver Plates to Piedness.\#151 ; With regard , however , to the effect of simply heating the silver plates to redness , the following experiments may be of interest , and seem to show that the heating , whether accompanied by subsequent " blanching " or " pickling " in dilute sulphuric acid or not , causes a distinct loss of sensitiveness , and in some cases seems to destroy it entirely unless the exposure is greatly prolonged .
A piece of thin , pure silver plate was first of all heated to a red heat over a spirit lamp , then plunged into dilute sulphuric acid , and , after being washed with distilled water and dried , was exposed for about two days and a half , partly in sunshine , at the end of September last , under a screen of mica carrying a cut-out design in tinfoil , which had also been passed through the flame of the lamp .
No visible image was produced , nor did one appear by breathing on the plate .
Development with acid ferrous sulphate and silver nitrate brought out traces of the opaque tinfoil mask and of parts cut out of the mica .
The free ends of the plate , which were exposed to the air all the time , did not show any distinct attraction for the developer .
Another plate of pure silver , well cleaned with " meteoric " polish ( No. 2 ) and exposed as usual under a mica screen with black paper * * Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , p. 1020 .
of Silver and of some other Metals Light .
mask , only one day longer than the last plate , gave a very strong visible image requiring no development .
There must , therefore , have been a considerable difference in the conditions of the surfaces of the two plates .
In the plate which was heated and then treated with dilute sulphuric acid , it may be assumed that any surface layer of condensed gases must have been destroyed and a surface of pure metal exposed\#151 ; which , as one would expect , was not visibly sensitive to light .
In the other case , in which the plate was probably oxidised ( it had been lying by for several years ) and was simply well cleaned with a dry polishing powder , the surface of the metal was left so sensitive to light as to give a strong visible image .
This difference of action in two plates which were exposed to the same conditions of light , seems to show that the effects produced by light on surfaces of metallic silver are chemical rather than merely molecular in their nature .
A repetition of this observation gave similar results .
Further , a plate of thin silver foil , well heated over the spirit-lamp and exposed under a mica screen , which was also heated , for two days , including some hours of sunshine , showed no image , even on development with mercury , although distinctly visible images had been obtained on ^he same piece of foil when cleaned in the ordinary way and exposed under the same or similar screens .
Further experiment on this point is still necessary .
Effects on Silver Surfaces fumed with Acid other A good many experiments have been made with silvered glass plates or silver foil , fumed with various vapours , which might possibly be present in small quantities during the exposure to light , among them hydrogen peroxide , nitric acid , ammonia , also sulphurous acid ; these plates have all shown visible and developable images of a somewhat similar character to those formed on the plain metal .
Nitric Acid.\#151 ; By fuming silvered glass plates with ordinary pure nitric acid ( T420 ) or , better , with the same acid diluted with an equal volume of water , very clear positive printed-out images have been obtained , even with the comparatively short exposure of one hour in the February sun .
With a longer exposure the image was clearer , the exposed parts appearing lighter than the protected parts , as is also the case with the plain silver surfaces .
Dilute Ammonia.\#151 ; Dilute ammonia containing one part of the solution at 0'880 in 30 of water , gave a similar image , but the film was not so sensitive as with the nitric acid .
Further experiments have however , to be made .
Dilute Sulphurous Acid.\#151 ; Dilute sulphurous acid , formed by acidifying a solution of sodium sulphite with sulphuric acid , gave a weak image of much the same character .
Hydrogen Peroxide Solution.\#151 ; Silvered glass plates , fumed with 502 Major-General J. Waterhouse .
On Sensitiveness various strengths of hydrogen peroxide solution , have given fairly sensitive films , sometimes a little white in appearance , hut as a rule the printed-out images produced on exposure to light are just the reverse of those produced on plain plates and those fumed , as noted above , i.e. , the parts exposed appear darker than the unexposed parts and do not attract mercury vapour , so that a positive picture is produced from an ordinary black and white negative .
By long exposure this effect is sometimes reversed .
The visible images produced on silvered glass plates fumed with the peroxide quickly fade away , though the details may still remain visible on breathing .
The same effect of fading out has also been observed on plain silver plates , most markedly on the thin foils .
Main or Boiled Distilled Water.\#151 ; Silver plates exposed under fresh , clean rain water , or boiled distilled water , gave distinct images on development with mercury , but not very readily , and further observations are necessary .
Exposures in Fluid Hydrocarbons.\#151 ; In order to ascertain whether the images would be produced on silver surfaces exposed in fluid hydrocarbons containing no oxygen , silvered glass and pure silver foil were exposed in fluid paraffin , benzene , xylene , and toluene .
Paraffin.\#151 ; In clear , colourless , fluid paraffin very strong dark olive-yellow images were produced by light on silvered glass and silver foil on the parts exposed freely in the fluid or under the parts cut out of a black cardboard mask but under a mica screen , which covered part of the black mask , and of the plate itself , there was no darkening action whatever .
The darkening appears to be due to sulphuration , but why it should not occur under the mica is not clear , unless the latter cuts off the rays which are active in producing it .
Benzene.\#151 ; Silver foil well cleaned and exposed in ordinary rectified benzene under a cut-out black paper mask , and also half covered with mica , showed very clear , yellow images of the cut-out design on the part uncovered by the mica , apparently by decomposition of thiophene or other sulphur compound present in the benzene .
This darkening required strong sunshine to produce it , and on prolonging the exposure in the sun the metal became quite bronzed in the uncovered exposed part , while the part protected by the mica also took a light tint .
It may be noted that , as a rule , the backs of these slips of foil ( which were exposed in test-tubes ) were not protected by any covering , but showed no perceptible change of colour : the darkening of the exposed foil was therefore solely an effect of strong light .
Effect of Heating the Foil.\#151 ; A piece of the same foil was exposed in the same way in the same benzene after being heated to redness .
This did not show such a strong image , even by long exposure in the sun .
A piece of pure foil ( assay foil ) was exposed in a purer sample of of Silver and of some other Metals to Light .
503 benzene , and also gave a distinct yellow image as soon as the sun acted upon it after some days ' exposure , the light being dull till near the end of the period .
Another piece of the same foil , heated to redness and exposed at the same time , only showed a very pale yellowing .
Xylene.\#151 ; A similar very faint , but browner , change of colour was noticed on a piece of the same foil , not heated , exposed for several days in commercial pure xylene .
With toluene , similar results were obtained after long exposure .
Effects of Light upon other Metals.\#151 ; A few observations have been made as to the action of light upon other metals , but with the exception of lead none of them have proved very sensitive , and further work is necessary in good weather .
Gold.\#151 ; Images developable with mercury have been obtained on gold leaf by prolonged exposures , but scarcely any trace of a developable image could be obtained on some highly-polished well-gilt buttons exposed for several days in good sunshine in October .
Lead Foil.\#151 ; On pure lead foil I have obtained a very distinct darkened image visible after exposure .
Very distinct darkening was also produced on lead foil exposed in pure benzene .
Copper.\#151 ; On copper distinctly visible images have been obtainable sometimes , but the metal is not so sensitive as silver to light , though I have readily obtained heat images on it developable by mercury .
Pure copper foil exposed in sunshine in pure benzene showed a distinct darkening , but exposed in xylene it did not change colour .
Nickel , Platinum , Aluminium , Palladium.\#151 ; Nickel , aluminium , and platinum appear to be quite insensitive to light , but with a small button of palladium , kindly lent to me by Mr. T. Bolas , which was exposed for some days under a black paper mask , there appeared a slight but fairly distinct trace of deposit of mercury on the exposed parts .
The spot was too small to make sure of .
Trial with Rontgen Rays.\#151 ; With the kind assistance of Mr. F. H. Glew I was able to make a few experiments with the Rontgen rays upon silvered glass and pure silver plates , exposed for several hours to the rays , but without any visible or developable effect .
" The above is a summary of my observations in this direetiort so far as they have gone .
I hoped to have made them more complete , but the dull winter weather has been very much against such work .
I hope , however , to go on with it during the summer , but think it advisable to publish the results already obtained now , in order that others may be able to extend them at the same time .
They show , I think , that most of the phenomena that occur by the exposure of ordinary photographic plates containing haloid compounds of silver can be observed upon a plain silver plate exposed to light in the air under ordinary conditions .
It seems not impossible , therefore , that the key to the hitherto unsolved problem of the production and constitution of 504 On the Sensitiveness of Silver and other to *8 P the so-called " latent photographic image " may he found within these limits .
Note , added June G.\#151 ; Since the above was written , I have tried the effect of fixing agents , such as hyposulphite of soda and weak solutions of potassium cyanide and ammonia , upon the printed-out images on silvered glass .
Neither of them destroys the image , hut a very peculiar effect was noticed when a somewhat indistinct printed-out image on silvered glass was treated with potassium cyanide .
The unexposed parts wrinkled up , but not the exposed parts ; after drying , the plate recovered its polished surface , but the exposed parts , instead of appearing light upon a darker ground , appeared darker than the unexposed parts\#151 ; the image generally being much clearer and more distinct than it was at first .
This effect points to a very strong physical modification of the thin silver film , but requires further examination with fresh images upon silver plates .

