310 Mr. E. P. Perman .
[ May 1 , to M. Pierre Chazerans , Secretary to the Mayor ; to M. Jean Gaulin , Garde Champetre ; to Madame Vve- Sogorb , whose excellent cuisine contributed no little to our health and happiness ; to our two Arab Guards ; and , lastly , to the courtesy of the French Government , which allowed our instruments and personal effects free entry into Algeria .
Chemical Reaction between Salts the Solid State .
By Edgar Philip Perman .
( Communicated by Principal E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 23 , 1907 .
) It has long been known that in a mixture of solid salts chemical reaction may take place .
Experiments on the subject have been made by Spring infra ) , Thorpe , * and others .
My attention was first called to the question by observing that a mixture of arsenious oxide and cadmium nitrate underwent a slow but complete change of composition , the final result being that the nitric acid was eliminated , arsenic acid taking its place .
Preliminary Experiments.\#151 ; Some experiments were made in order to discover what salts would be suitable for a careful investigation .
The following were selected for trial , since a chemical change could be traced by an accompanying change of colour .
The salts were finely powdered , but not specially dried .
Salts .
Result on mixing .
Lead nitrate and potassium iodide Immediate action .
Lead cliloride " 31 .
3 ) Lead formate " Slow action .
Lead sulphate " Very slow action , colour appearing after 30 minutes .
Lead oxide ( litharge ) , , No appreciable action .
Lead carbonate " No change .
Mercuric chloride " Immediate action .
Mercuric cyanide , , No action .
Mercuric chloride and potassium chromate Slow change .
From these salts two pairs were chosen for further study , viz. , lead chloride and potassium iodide , and mercuric chloride and potassium iodide .
The salts were purified by recrystallisation , dried over sulphuric acid , * B. A. Report , 1881 , p. 580 .
1907 .
] Chemical Reaction between Salts the Solid State .
311 ground in a mortar , and sifted through fine silk cloth , such as is used for sifting flour ; they were then kept in desiccators over sulphuric acid .
Lead Chloride and Potassium Iodide .
Effect of Drying over Sulphuric Acid.\#151 ; Equivalent quantities of the salts ( 2 grammes potassium iodide and 1*68 grammes lead chloride ) were placed in tw ?
o flasks , A and B ( fig. 1 ) , C containing concentrated sulphuric acid .
The salts were occasionally warmed and shaken in order to make the drying more efficient .
After standing 48 hours , the lead chloride was shaken from A into B , C being held in a horizontal position .
The salts were mixed by shaking , when there was no apparent change of colour .
The flask B , which had previously been drawn out , was then sealed off .
A B Fig. 1 .
The mixture was watched from day to day ; no change could be seen until the tenth day after mixing , when a very faint yellow colour appeared .
On further keeping , the colour slowly deepened for some weeks , and then seemed to remain unaltered .
In this experiment the mixture was kept in the dark .
Effect of Light.\#151 ; Another mixture made in the same way , but exposed to daylight , behaved in no way differently from the first .
Effect of Temperature.\#151 ; On heating a similar mixture at 100 ' for five hours , no colour appeared , but , on keeping , it showed a tinge of yellow at the beginning of the third day , showing that the reaction had been much accelerated .
Attempt to Determine the Minimum Quantity of Water Necessary to Produce .
an Immediate Visible Reaction .
Several methods were tried :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The mixture having been made in the usual way , the flask containing Mr. E. P. Perman .
[ May 1 , it was weighed and allowed to stand open to the air on the balance pan until the yellow colour was perceptible .
The increase in weight was then noted .
( 2 ) The flask containing the mixture was connected , by a ground glass joint and wide stop-cock , with a small bulb containing crystallised borax .
As soon as the yellow colour appeared , the bulb was detached , and the loss in weight of the borax determined .
( 3 ) The substances were dried over phosphorus pentoxide , and mixed in an exhausted globe .
Measured volumes of air saturated with water vapour were then admitted until the first appearance of colour .
The weight of water admitted was calculated .
The results obtained by these three methods were not very concordant , the quantity of water varying from OT milligramme to 1 milligramme .
The smallest number is probably the most correct .
The chief interest of the matter is in its comparison with the case of mercuric chloride and potassium iodide .
Mercuric Chloride and Potassium Iodide .
Owing to the volatility of mercuric chloride , it was necessary to dry the salts separately , for otherwise some of the mercuric salt was driven over into contact with the potassium iodide .
Several arrangements were used ; in one a wide tube was divided by a glass septum , which was broken , after the salts were dried , by a glass rod enclosed .
In another arrangement the separation was effected by a septum of fusible alloy , which was melted before mixing the salts .
The simplest device , however , was the following : Some potassium iodide was placed in a small thin-walled bulb and dried by gentle heating and at the same time exhausting with a mercury pump .
The bulb was placed inside a wide tube closed at one end and containing some mercuric chloride ; the other end was drawn out and the tube and contents were dried in the same way as the potassium iodide .
The tube was then sealed off , and the salts were mixed by breaking the bulb .
As the result of these experiments , it was found that on mixing the salts a faint colour usually appeared at once .
It was at first yellow , and changed , slowly or quickly , according to the thoroughness of the drying , into the scarlet mercuric iodide .
If the phosphorus pentoxide ( in the pump ) was of poor quality or had been much used , the red colour appeared immediately on mixing the salts , but otherwise three days were required for the full development of the colour .
With specially made phosphorus pentoxide , more complete drying was obtained and there was no reaction .
The arrangement used is shown in 1907 .
] Chemical Reaction between Salts the Solid State .
313 fig. 2 ; A is the alloy septum .
After introducing the salts B , B ' , the tube was narrowed at C , C ' .
The phosphorus pentoxide was then placed at D , 1 ) ' , and the tube sealed off at both ends .
Next , the phosphorus pentoxide bulbs Fig. 2 .
were broken and the whole allowed to stand for a month .
The tube was then sealed off at C , C ' , the alloy wras melted and run into E , and the salts were mixed .
No colour appeared , and after keeping three years still no change had taken place ; the tube was then opened , when the red colour appeared .
The contents of another tube , which had been kept the same time and had accidentally contained some mercury , turned black on exposure to the air .
No doubt the mercuric chloride ( before drying ) had been converted into a mercurous salt .
The colour was the same as obtained on adding excess of potassium iodide solution to a solution of a mercurous salt .
Speed of the Reaction.\#151 ; It is seen from these experiments that the reaction between mercuric chloride and potassium iodide takes place at an enormously greater rate than that between lead chloride and potassium iodide in the same conditions .
The cause of the difference is at first sight not clear .
The possible factors which may influence the rate of the reaction are : ( 1 ) quantity of water present ; ( 2 ) solubility ; ( 3 ) volatility ; ( 4 ) degree of ionisation when in solution .
It is not necessary to consider the state of subdivision , as the salts were all prepared in the same way .
Solubility appears to be an important factor , for , on referring to the list of salts at the beginning of this paper , it is seen that the least soluble salts show the least action .
Mercuric chloride is roughly 10 times as soluble as lead chloride , but this would not account for the very great difference in the speed of the two reactions .
The degree of ionisation of mercuric chloride in solution is extremely small , and this would have the opposite effect to that actually found .
The volatility still remains to be considered ; it is , undoubtedly , the determining factor , as shown by the following experiments :\#151 ; In a wide tube constricted in the middle were placed , on one side some mercuric chloride , and on the other side potassium iodide .
The tube was then sealed off and Mr. E. P. Perman .
[ May 1 , watched from day to day .
After the lapse of a month the margin of the potassium iodide was slightly coloured , and after three years the colour had travelled about 1 inch along the potassium iodide .
The mercuric chloride remained free from colour .
A similar experiment with lead chloride and potassium iodide showed no colour whatever .
The difference was still more marked in another experiment in which the tubes were exhausted to 04 mm. The mercuric chloride coloured the potassium iodide once , whilst after a year the lead chloride had had no effect .
Sodium Carbonate and Barium Sulphate .
In order to investigate the effect of a high temperature on reactions between solid salts , it was necessary to select those that were non-volatile .
Sodium carbonate and barium sulphate were chosen ; they have the further advantage that the extent of the reaction may be measured by extracting the mixture with water and estimating the sodium carbonate volu metrically .
Preliminary experiments were made in order to discover if any reaction took place during the process of extraction , and it was found that , if carried out quickly , there was no appreciable change .
The following numbers were obtained:\#151 ; Taken .
Treatment .
Found XaX'0:j .
Na2C03 .
BaS04 .
gramme .
0-454 0 -454 gramme .
1 1 Shaken with water 10 mins .
Allowed to stand with water 24 lirs .
gramme , i 0-454 0-443 1 Effect of Heating .
Taken .
Heated .
Found Na2C03 .
Na2C03 .
BaS04 .
Hrs .
Temp. gramme .
0-841 0 -705 gramme .
1 -045 0 -8035 5 35 300'\#151 ; 400 ' ) ) .
gramme .
0-820 0-657 Although the temperature was considerably below the fusing point of either salt , a marked reaction was thus found to take place .
The heating was effected in a crucible without any precautions as to drying .
A mixture was then made of equivalent quantities of sodium carbonate and 1907 .
] Chemical Reaction between Salts the Solid State .
315 barium sulphate ; it was ground lightly in a mortar for 10 minutes , and dried over sulphuric acid .
It was placed in a glass bulb at the end of a long tube , and heated in the vapour of bromnaphthalene ( about 280 ' ) .
The following are the results:\#151 ; Heated .
Na2C03 originally present .
Na2C03 found .
lirs .
gramme .
gramme .
35 0 -2137 O -2155 54 0 -5800 0 -5831 At this temperature there is no sign of any decomposition .
The temperature of boiling sulphur ( 444 ' ) was next tried .
A mixture was used of two molecules Na2C03 to one molecule BaS04 .
Heated .
Na2C03 .
Originally present .
Found .
Per cent , converted .
Ill'S .
gramme .
gramme .
r 20 0 -5703 0 -5355 6*10 Series I \#171 ; 40 0 '3671 0 '3177 13 46 165 0 -4838 0 '3971 17 '92 fio 1 '0224 0 '9264 9'58 I 16 0 '8738 0 -8057 7'79 Series II 20 0 -8655 0 '7813 9'73 | 40 0 -4993 0 -4581 8'25 [ 65 0 '4970 0 '4581 7'83 In the second series the mixture was somewhat drier than in the first , and the reaction appears to have ceased after a short time .
The results are not very concordant , probably owing to irregularity in the quantity of moisture present .
Iu another series , a mixture of sodium carbonate and barium sulphate in molecular proportions was used .
The salts were heated and allowed to i Na2C03 .
Heated .
j Percentage converted .
Percentage left ( calculated on total weight of mixture ) .
lirs .
1 [ 10 10 '92 27 -84 Series III f 30 10 -19 28 -07 L 60 11 -60 27 '62 Mr. E. P. Perman .
[ May 1 , stand over sulphuric acid before mixing .
The mixture was then put into bulb tubes previously dried by exhausting with a water air-pump and heating at the same time .
The tubes were sealed and heated in sulphur vapour .
Next a mixture was made of sodium sulphate and barium carbonate in molecular proportions , and was heated in sulphur vapour in order to discover whether the composition would become finally the same as in the last experiment:\#151 ; Heated .
Percentage Na , C03 formed ( on total weight of mixture ) .
hrs .
10 2-89 30 3-04 60 3-11 It would appear that the reaction in this direction is very much slower than in the other , and that equilibrium had not been reached ; but it is impossible to say whether the two pairs of salts were in exactly the same condition with regard to moisture or not .
Probably equilibrium had not been reached in either case .
Effect of Heat on a Mixture of Sodium Carbonate and Barium in the Absence of Moisture .
The substances were placed separately in a glass tube , and dried by heating and exhausting with a mercury pump .
The salts were then mixed and heated 14 hours in sulphur vapour .
The result was , sodium carbonate taken 0'3071 gramme , found 0'3074 gramme .
Thus no action takes place in the absence of moisture .
Effect of Shaking.\#151 ; A mixture of 0593 gramme sodium carbonate and P419 grammes barium sulphate was shaken in a closed flask for 10 hours continuously .
It was then found that 0'584 gramme sodium carbonate remained .
Effect of Percussion.\#151 ; About 2 grammes of a mixture of two molecules Na2C03 to one molecule BaS04 was placed in a heavy steel mortar with a closely fitting plunger as pestle .
The latter was then hammered vigorously for 30 minutes , receiving about 900 strokes in all .
On extracting with water , it was found that 4'87 per cent , of the sodium carbonate had been converted into sulphate .
Effect of Pressure.\#151 ; W. Spring* investigated reactions between sodium * 'Bull .
Soc. Chim .
, ' vol. 46 , p. 166 , and vol. 44 , p. 299 .
1907 .
] Chemical Reaction betiveen Salts the Solid State .
317 carbonate and barium sulphate , and between sodium sulphate and barium carbonate , under high pressures , and found that the extent of the reaction depended on the number of compressions and the time during which the mixture was left after compression .
These results were confirmed by the following experimentsA mixture of two molecules Na2C03 to one molecule BaS04 was subjected in the steel mortar to a pressure of 82 tons ( equivalent to 104 tons per square inch ) .
It was then found that 1 per cent , of the sodium carbonate had been converted into sulphate .
It should be noted , however , that the mortar broke , so that the duration of the pressure was very short .
In another experiment the pressure was 44*4 tons ( 56 tons per square inch , or about 8000 atmospheres ) , and its duration was 1 minute .
The compressed mixture was then allowed to stand five weeks , when it was found that 4D2 per cent , of the carbonate had been converted .
Spring found that , after the mixture had been subjected to a pressure of 6000 atmospheres , and then left a month , 3'84 per cent , barium sulphate had been converted into carbonate .
It was found by Spring that mixtures of approximately the same composition were obtained , whether starting with barium sulphate and sodium carbonate or sodium sulphate and barium carbonate , thus showing that equilibrium had been attained .
I have therefore confined myself to endeavouring to discover the effect of pressure on very thoroughly dried salts .
The heavy mortar was first used .
In order to dry the mixture , a hole was drilled sideways into the bottom of the mortar , and into this was cemented a tube containing phosphorus pentoxide .
Molten wax was poured over the top of the plunger .
However , the phosphorus pentoxide did not remain dry , and the result was that after the mixture had stood 23 days , and then been subjected to a pressure of 40 tons ( equivalent to 51 tons per square inch , or 7600 atmospheres ) , T6 per cent , of the sodium carbonate had been converted into sulphate .
In the next experiment the plunger passed through a rubber cork which fitted into the mouth of the mortar , and air and moisture were pumped out through the side tube .
The drying was not complete owing to a slight leak , and to the impossibility of shaking the powder .
The result showed that 0'5 per cent , of the sodium carbonate had been converted into sulphate by a pressure of 40 tons .
Owing to the difficulty of drying the salts in the heavy mortar , a lighter one was made in which the salts could be hammered , the blow of a hammer being essentially the same as a high pressure exerted for a very short time .
Effect of Percussion on thoroughly dried Salts.\#151 ; A steel mortar .
was Mr. E. P. Perman .
[ May 1 , made of lf-inch internal diameter , with a loosely-fitting piston , and the piston rod passed through a rubber cork fitting tightly into the mouth of the cylinder .
Several grammes of the mixture were placed at the bottom of the cylinder , and were dried by gentle heating and shaking , and at the same time exhausting the cylinder with a Fleuss pump .
The piston was then hammered vigorously for 30 minutes ( about 900 strokes ) .
On analysing the mixture it was found that only 01 per cent , of the sodium carbonate had reacted , an amount within the limits of experimental error .
An exactly similar experiment was then made without specially drying the mixture ; the salts had been dried over sulphuric acid , then mixed and kept in a well stoppered bottle .
In this case 2*38 per cent , of sodium carbonate was converted into sulphate .
The amount converted when the heavy mortar was used ( vide supra ) was 4*87 per cent. The areas of the pistons in the two cases were approximately as 1 : 2 , roughly the same as the extent of the reaction .
Influence of other Solvents .
Methyl Alcohol Vapour.\#151 ; Lead chloride and potassium iodide were dried separately over phosphorus pentoxide , then mixed in a special apparatus and exposed to the action of methyl alcohol vapour , the liquid having been carefully dried by quicklime .
The mixture acquired a strong yellow colour in about one hour .
Benzene Vapour.\#151 ; When exposed to benzene vapour in a similar way , no change took place .
A similar experiment with mercuric chloride and potassium iodide gave a similar result , except that the mixture gradually turned black owing to the reducing action of the metallic sodium left in the tube to dry the benzene .
Chloroform Vapour.\#151 ; Some lead chloride was placed at the closed end of a wide glass tube .
Inside the tube two sealed thin-walled tubes were placed , one containing potassium iodide and the other pure chloroform , each previously dried by phosphorus pentoxide .
The wide tube was then exhausted by the mercury pump and sealed off .
On breaking the inner tubes , there was no apparent change of colour , either when the mixture was exposed to the action of the vapour or to that of the liquid .
After standing a week a faint colour appeared .
( Commercial phosphorus pentoxide was used in this experiment , so that the drying was not very perfect .
) Ammonia.\#151 ; Some ammonia gas was dried over lime , and allowed to stand with phosphorus pentoxide ( Kahlbaum 's ) in a glass bulb .
The bulb was then sealed off and placed , together with a small bulb containing dry potassium iodide , in a wide tube containing lead chloride .
The wide tube was then 1907 .
] Chemical Reaction between Salts in the Solid State .
319 heated , exhausted , and sealed off .
On breaking the inner tubes , no change was observed , and after keeping for a year it was still unaltered .
With regard to the action of these solvents , methyl alcohol dissolves and ionises both salts , benzene and chloroform dissolve neither , whilst liquid ammonia dissolves and ionises potassium iodide , but forms an insoluble compound with lead chloride.* Summary and Conclusion .
( 1 ) Salts in the solid state usually undergo double decomposition when mixed ( and not specially dried ) .
( 2 ) Eeaction between solid salts is accelerated by ( 1 ) heat , ( 2 ) pressure ( including percussion ) , ( 3 ) shaking ( no doubt by bringing fresh surfaces into contact ) .
( 3 ) The solubility and volatility of the salts greatly influence the reaction-velocity .
( 4 ) In the complete absence of water or other ionising solvent a solvent which becomes a conductor of electricity owing to the presence of the salt ) , no reaction takes rplace .
It would appear from these results that reaction between solid salts is of essentially the same nature as that between salts in solution .
The quantity of water required to bring about a reaction is extremely minute , but its action is probably to ionise the salts .
I would suggest that the water present forms a film on the surface of the salts , and that in this film minute quantities of the salts dissolve and there react .
On this assumption , heat would accelerate reaction by increasing the solubility of the salts , and also by increasing their volatility if they had an appreciable vapour pressure .
Pressure would in general bring more salt into solution , but would act chiefly by bringing the surfaces of the solids into close contact .
Volatility would assist the reaction by carrying the particles of the volatile salt into contact with the surface of the other salt .
In the latter part of this work I have received most valuable assistance from Mr. J. H. Davies , B.Sc. , to whom I here wish to express my indebtedness .
I wish also to thank Professor A. C. Elliott for the use of the testing machine in the engineering department of this college .
4 ' Amer .
Chem. Journ. , ' 1898 , vol. 20 , p. 820 .

