Experiments on the Friction and Abrasion of the Surfaces of Solids .
By George Rennie , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 12 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 143 .
] The first part of this paper is occupied by a rapid review of the ; labours of mechanicians on the subject of friction , from the period of those of Amontons at the end of the 17th century , to those of Coulomb and of Vince in the years 1779 and 1784 ; from which the author draws the conclusion that the progress of knowledge in this department of science has been slow and unsatisfactory , and that a wide field is still left open to experimental investigation .
With a view to elucidate several points not yet sufficiently ascertained by former writers , the author instituted several sets of experiments ; some calculated to determine the forces required for dragging bodies of various kinds along a horizontal surface , and others for measuring the angle at which a plane was required to be inclined to the horizon in order to admit of the body sliding down it , attention being paid to the circumstances of pressure , extent of surface , time of previous contact , and velocity of motion .
The following are the principal conclusions which the author deduces from his experiments .
The friction of ice rubbing upon ice diminishes with an increase of weight ; but without observing any regular law of increase .
When dry leather is made to move along a plate of cast iron , the resistance is but little influenced by the extent of surface .
With fibrous substances , such as cloth , the friction diminishes by an increase of pressure , but is greatly increased by the surfaces remaining for a certain time in contact ; it is greater , ceteris paribus , with fine , than with coarse cloths ; the resistance is also much increased by an increase of surface .
With regard to the friction of different woods against each other , great diversity and irregularity prevail in the results obtained ; in general the soft woods give more resistance than the hard woods : thus , yellow deal affords the greatest , and red teak the least friction .
The friction of different metals also varies principally according to their respective hardness ; the soft metals producing greater friction under similar circumstances than those which are hard .
Within the limits of abrasion , however , the amount of friction is nearly the same in all the metals , and may in general be estimated at one sixth of the pressure .
The power which unguents have in diminishing friction , varies according to the kind of the fluidity of the particular unguent employed , and to the pressure applied .
The paper is accompanied with drawings of the apparatus used ; and the details of the experiments are given at length in a tabular form .

