528 Preliminary Note on a Method of Measuring Colour-sensations ' by Intermittent Light , with Description an Unfinished Apparatus for the Purpose .
By George J. Burch , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Oxon .
) , F.R.S. ( Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read March 30 , 1911 .
) When I began in 1895 to apply the methods of artificial colour-blindness-to test the colour-sensations of other people , I cast about in various directions for means of intensifying the effect while reducing the brilliancy of the light used to produce the necessary fatigue .
The results obtained , though not immediately available for my purpose , , were in several cases of sufficient interest to warrant their publication .
Successive Contrast.\#151 ; In my paper on the " Relation of Artificial Colourblindness to Successive Contrast , " I described* a device whereby after fatiguing the retina with any one colour a complete spectrum might be suddenly substituted for it , thus producing " a very transient colourblindness " which may be for the moment even more nearly complete than that described in my paperf as produced by the most intense light .
For practical testing , however , this momentary effect is useless , requiring a trained eye to locate the extent of it .
It forms a very good experiment in a practical course of physiological optics .
Dark-adaptation.\#151 ; I found that in the dark-adapted eye the light of an ordinary lamp is strong enough to produce artificial colour-blindness to light of less intensity.^ But there are many reasons why dark-adaptation is undesirable as a necessary condition of any colour test .
Among others are the time it takes and the insuperable difficulty of the curious condition of nervousness it induces in many men , particularly among those whose colour-sensations are abnormal .
I have , however , found it very advantageous to apply the spectroscopic test in a subdued light .
Simultaneous Contrast.\#151 ; An attempt in 1897 to utilise the phenomena of simultaneous contrast in the examination of colour-sensations proved unsuccessful , the effect being much less striking than I had anticipated .
S But a modification of the arrangement affords an excellent method of demonstrating and explaining the phenomena .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , pp. 210 , 211 .
t 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , 1899 , vol. 191 , pp. 1\#151 ; 32 .
J 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 217 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 226 .
Measuring Colour-sensations by Intermittent Light .
529 Intermittent Stimulation.\#151 ; The very remarkable results obtained by Shelford Bidwell with intermittent light seemed capable of interpretation as due to temporary colour-blindness induced by a succession of stimuli .
I therefore repeated his experiments , using the pure colours of the spectrum.* It proved possible to see the boundaries of the colour-sensations , by using spectral and monochromatic light instead of pigment colours for the first or for the second stimulus , but there was too much uncertainty as to which stimulus would prove effective to make the method reliable for general testing .
In May of the following year , Shelford Bidwell announced his discovery of the " External and Border Phenomena " in connection with negative after-images.f This gave the clue I wanted , showing that a very complete colourblindness could be induced in one portion of the retina by light falling upon another part , and in my paper on " Areal Induction"| I described an apparatus by which this could be done .
Since then my aim has been to work out the details of a practical apparatus for colour-testing on these lines .
The Apparatus .
The Spectrum.\#151 ; A series of experiments with Thorp 's celloidin gratings showed that though a sufficiently strong illumination could be obtained with them , the unavoidable small admixture of wdiite light confused the results in the more refrangible parts of the spectrum .
But for this objection the use of these gratings would have greatly simplified the construction of the apparatus .
With prisms , the red is so much compressed and the violet so much drawn out , that it is difficult to get a monochromatic field in the red without employing a dispersion so wide that the violet is too weak to produce fatigue .
I have , however , found a way out of the difficulty .
Any pair of similar prisms symmetrically situated with regard to a beam of parallel rays may be treated as a glass prism whose angle is that between the outer faces , containing an air-prism of the angle between the adjacent faces .
The pair of them together fulfil , therefore , the conditions of minimum deviation .
If , then , they are simultaneously rotated in opposite directions upon the prism table , the combination continues in the position of minimum deviation , but behaves as though it were a single prism of variable angle .
Accordingly , the spectrum traverses the field of view as in a constant * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 213 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 , pp. 276 , 277 , etc. J 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 69 , pp. 127 , 128 .
Dr. G. J. Burch .
On a Method of Measuring [ Feb. 7 , deviation instrument , with this added advantage , that by suitably selecting , the refracting angles and the initial position of the pair of prisms , the distribution of wave-lengths in the spectrum can be varied between wide limits , so that an increased dispersion can be obtained in the red without unduly altering that of the violet .
I used two dense-flint prisms of 60 ' which happened to be available , but the best distribution of wave-lengths was given by a pair of prisms of 45 ' , which were unfortunately too small for my purpose .
Each prism was mounted on a revolving table just big enough to hold it , and carrying a projecting arm about 20 cm .
long .
These arms were connected by linkwork in such a manner that any movement of one was1 associated with an equal and opposite ' movement of the other .
It should be noted that for ordinary purposes no great accuracy of adjustment is needed for this part of the apparatus .
In order to get as much light as possible , and to cover a wide field of view with the slit , I adopted my usual plan of a short-focus collimator\#151 ; about 25 cm.\#151 ; and a long focus telescope\#151 ; about 120 cm .
For the second spectrum I used an instrument of the ordinary constant deviation type , of sufficient dispersion to show the sodium lines easily separated .
Light .
For all but the extreme violet Nernst lamps proved sufficient , and gave a steadier light than that of the electric arc .
Save for economy in lamps , no advantage was gained by illuminating both spectroscopes with light from the same source .
Alternation of Flashes.\#151 ; The stimulus was rendered intermittent by rotating discs with suitably arranged sectors .
There are several positions m the path of the rays where such discs may be placed , and these were all tried .
The final choice lies between two arrangements , each of which has certain advantages .
In one , two discs , one to each spectroscope , are geared together by a simple arrangement of shafting that admits of the separate justment of each both as to position , so that they can be focussed , and the sequence and duration of the flashes given by them .
In the other , , * f0 Carr*es a rQ^rror by which the light of one spectroscope is reflected , the other being seen periodically through an aperture .
th Linages .
As in photometry , much is gained by making n , i. , between the spectrum under examination and the monochromatic a b aS neaily as possible invisible .
For superposing the spectrum on of am\#174 ; QOchro"atic field 1 have used reflection from the unsilvered surface I wan ; \#171 ; \#166 ; / ^ l*aVe a^80 emPloyed an ordinary small total reflecting prism .
illness xmt** lgatl.ng the relatlve merits of these two methods , when my mness put an end to the work .
1911 ] Colour-sensations by Intermittent Light .
Summary .
Briefly , the new method of measuring the colour-sensations is as follows:\#151 ; A series of flashes of monochromatic light produce by areal induction a condition of colour-blindness in a small area of the field of view , which they surround but do not invade .
This small area is occupied , also in flashes properly Timed and proportioned , by the part of the spectrum under examination .
The colour corresponding to that of the monochromatic flashes is , as it were , wipe out of it , and the observer sees the boundaries of the under yingco our sensations as long as the flashes succeed one another at the proper ra e. A number of small details remain to he settled , ut rom * when I had the model in action in 1908 .
I am inclined \#187 ; ***** it will supersede all other methods .
This apparatus wasJ , , ti ... the first form with Thorp 's gratings , figured in my paper on " Areal Induction .
The greater part of the work was dove at .
^speTo^atioM in the intervals of teaching , hut I \#171 ; \#166 ; '11^ tran8ference of the altogether in 1905 in consequence o not until 1908 College to its new site m the London oa ' ^ up a working model that I was able to resume the experiments .
eomnlete instrument , of the optical parts and got out measurements for t ^ p was These X was beginning to deal with when my^ ^ fw 80me time before obliged to limit myself to the work of the dep it became necessary for me to give up altog .
and j hope during the The materials of the model are now in order again , summer to superintend the putting of ^ ^ head 0f Note.\#151 ; The arrangement of shafting iefe"e^afts\gt ; one about 4 feet long Alternation of Flashes is as follows : Two ^ angles .
They are and the other 2 feet long , cross one ano collar carrying a disc connected by bevel gearing .
On each is ^ ^ ^ 9 inches m about 3 inches in diameter , agains w collars can also diameter , can be firmly clamped with a nut .
The^ ^ ^ ^ two securely clamped to their respective s a ; no disc m Iron \#174 ; .
C cut away .
By stained , and the opposite sectors of 4o are c angle can be obtain , ^ other effective apertures of any _ d in an positions .
1 apparatus being symmetrical remains j ^ which are aPPr0X " revolve in front of the slits of 3 feet 6 inches apart .
directed at right angles to each other , an jj7 .
* ' Rov .
Soc. rro

