1903 .
] On Reptilian Remains from the Trias On Eeptilian Remains from the Trias of Elgin .
" By G. A. Boulenger , F.R.S. Received April 29 , \#151 ; Read June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Descriptions are given of various reptilian remains obtained by Mr. William Taylor , J.P. , of Lhanbryde , in the Triassic sandstone quarries at Lossiemouth , near Elgin .
Thanks to the kind permission of Dr. A. S. Woodward , the fossils were further developed in the Geological Department of the British Museum by Mr. Hall .
The remains described belong to three different reptiles .
I. Hypeiiodapedon Gordoni , Huxley .
A skull is contained in a block of sandstone , split horizontally in the plane of the palate , which is for the first time clearly exposed .
Fig. 1 .
epl .
Ectopterygoid .
j.Jugal .
m.Maxilla , pal .
Palatine , pm .
Pry in axilla .
pt .
Pterygoid , q. Quadrate , q Quadratojugal .
Tomer .
ihe structure of the palate is seen to have been very different from what Huxley had surmised and shows a much nearer approximation to that of Sphenodon .
The choanae were elongate , oval , and situated Mr. G. A. Bouleuger .
[ Apr. 29 , between the palatines and the vomers at some distance behind the prsemaxillaries .
Doubts have been thrown on Huxley 's interpretation of the outer toothed bone of the skull , and it is important to settle the question of its identification .
The new material has convinced the author that the teeth in the upper jaw are borne by both the maxillary and the palatine , as stated by Huxley .
, The fossil shows well the elongate rhomboidal vacuity between the pterygoid , ending at the point where they converge before diverging again towards the quadrate , to the massive anterior branch of which they are suturally united .
As may be seen from the annexed restoration , the palate of Hyperodapedon bears great resemblance , in its general structure , to that of the living Sphenodon , the principal differences , apart from the dentition , residing in the smaller bony roof of the mouth and the narrower vomers .
II .
Stenometopon Taylori , G. et sp. nn .
This name is proposed for a considerable portion of a skull of a Rhynchocephalian , closely related to Hyperodapedon , and belonging to the same family , Rhynchosauridse .
Its length is 177 mms .
and its greatest width 160 , One of the most striking features of Hyperodapedon as compared with its N ew Zealand ally , , resides in its much broader and more massive skull .
The skull of the new Rhynchocephalian , although agreeing in its general structure with that of Hyperodapedon , is not broader and hardly more massive than that of Sphenodon , from which it differs , however , very much in shape .
The rostrum has quite a different direction from either of these skulls , the tusk-like prsemaxillaries , instead of being bent downwards into recurved processes , are directed forwards in a gradual slope from the frontal region to their extremities , which project beyond the turned-up extremities of the mandibular rami .
This is practically the reverse of the condition in Hyperodapedon , where the strongly curved prsemaxillary " tusks " are received between the outwardly directed rostral processes of the mandible .
Nasal bones are absent .
As in Hyperodapedon , the nasal aperture is single , but , in accordance with the shape of the prsemaxillaries , it is more elongate , its length being to its width as 2^ : 1 ; its posterior border extends to the level of the orbits , which are entirely directed upwards .
The inter-orbital region is narrow , especially behind .
The supra-temporal fossae are very large , separated from the orbits by the narrow post-orbital arch and from each other by the sharp median crest of the parietals .
The latero-temporal fossa is kidney-shaped and proportionately larger than in Hyperodapedon , but smaller than the supra-temporal fossa .
The rtiaxillary bone is deep and nearly vertical , with an oblique ridge 1903 .
] On Reptilian Remains from the Trias of Elgin.57 extending downward and backward to the jugal ; the maxillary teeth , so far as they are preserved , appear very similar to those of Fig. 2 .
j. Jugal .
m.Maxilla .
}\gt ; .
Parietal .
Praemaxilla .
Postorbital .
prf .
Praefrontal .
pm .
Prsemaxilla , pIf .
Postfrontal .
Q.uadratojugal sq .
Squamosal .
dupedon , and form a single series in front and two behind .
The palate is imperfectly preserved , but what is left of it agrees in essential points with Hyperodapedon ; the palatine teeth are disposed in three series behind .
58 On Reptilian Remains from the Trias of Elgin .
[ April 29 , III .
Ornithosuchxjs Woodwardi , E. T. Newton .
The specimen on which this species was founded by Mr. Newton in 1894 , indicated a reptile about 2f feet long .
Specimens more than twice as large are now described , and afford much information on points which remained obscure .
Clavicles were present , large and widely expanded at their inner extremity , where they overlapped the inter-clavicle .
A plastron , or system of abdominal ribs , was also present , resembling very closely that of each segment being formed of a median angulate piece to which a lateral limb is attached , the segments , however , being much more numerous and closer together than in the New Zealand reptile .
The presence of clavicles and of a plastron show that Ornithosuchus cannot be included among the Dinosaurs , as originally suggested , but must be placed in the Order Thecodontia , of Owen , which contains Belodonand Aetosaurus .
The Thecodontia should be kept distinct from the Crocodilia or Emydosauria ; they agree with the latter , the Dinosauria and the Pelycosauria , to which they are very closely related , and differ from the Rhynchocephalia , in the truly thecodont dentition ; they agree with the Rhynchocephalia and Pelycosauria , and differ from the Emydosauria and Dinosauria , in the presence of clavicles , whilst they show close resemblance to the Rhynchocephalia proper in the structure of the plastron .
The presence of clavicles and the condition of the pelvis , in which the pubis enters the acetubulum , together with other characters showing greater generalisation , afford ample justification for the separation of the Thecodontia or Parasuchia , as a group of ordinal rank , from the Emydosauria .
The author also expresses the opinion that precision in the definition of the higher group of reptiles would gain much by the Order Dinosauria being restricted to the carnivorous , truly thecodont forms , the others deserving to form an equivalent Order under the name of Orthopoda , Cope ( Predentata , Marsh , Ornithischia , Seeley ) .

