|08 \#166 ; Sir J , B. Laws and Prof , J , H. txilbert .
2 .
The velocity of sound in , a wire ip independent of the load on the wire .
3 .
The velocity of sound in a wire is npt sensibly altered by permanent extensions of the wire , , provided sufficient rest be ; allowed after the permanent extension has taken place . .
4 .
The value of the modulus of torsiohal elasticity as determined by the .statical ; method , accords with the value obtained by the method of torsional vibrations for most metals in the hard-drawn condition^ provided the deformations produced are sufficiently small . .
'"'I j | *01 x ISlf bolaoimA ... ... .
P On the present Position of the Question of the ' Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetation , with some new Results , and preliminary Notice of new Lines of Investigation .
" By Sit J. B. Laws , Bart. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and J. H. Gilbert , 'LL .
D. , F.R.S. : Preliminary Notice.* Received and read June 16 , 1887 .
For many years past the question of the sources of the nitrogen of our crops has been the subject of much experimental enquiry both at Rothariisted and elsewhere .
Until quite recently , the controversy has chiefly been as to whether plants directly assimilate the free nitrogen of the atmosphere ; but , during the last few years , the discussion has assumed a somewhat different aspect .
The question still is whether the free nitrogen of the air is an important source 'Of the nitrogen of vegetation ; but whilst few now adhere to the view that chlorophyllous plants directly assimilate free nitrogen , it is nevertheless assumed to be brought under contribution in various ways , coming into combination within the soil , under the influence of \#166 ; electricity , or of micro-organisms , or of other low forms which thus indirectly serve as an important source of the nitrogen of plants of a higher order .
Several of the more important of the investigations in the lines here indicated seem to have been instigated by the assumption that natural Compensation must be found for the losses of combined nitrogen which the soil sustains by the removal of crops , and for those which result -from the liberation of nitrogen from its combinations under various circumstances .
We propose to summarise some of our own more recently published .results bearing on various aspects of the subject , to put on record additional results , to give a preliminary notice of new lines of enquiry , and to discuss the evidence so adduced with reference to the results * This Preliminary Notice was originally intended td have served as the Abstract of a fuller paper , and is so referred to in the account of the meeting of June Id ( vol. 42 , p. 483 ) , On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetation .
109 and conclusions of others which have recently been put forward , as above alluded to .
In our earlier papers we had concluded that , excepting- the small amount of combined nitrogen annually coming down in rain and the minor aqueous deposits from the atmosphere , the source of the nitrogen of our crops was , substantially , the stores within the soil and subsoil , whether derived from previous accumulations , or from recent supplies by manure .
More recently we have shown that the amount of nitrogen , as nitric acid in the soil , was much less after the growth of a crop than under compai-able conditions without a crop .
In the case of gramineous crops the evidence pointed to the conclusion that most , if not the whole , of their nitrogen was taken up as nitric acid .
In the experiments with leguminous crops the evidence was in favour of the supposition that , in some cases , the whole of the nitrogen had been taken up as nitric acid , whilst in others that source seemed to be inadequate .
It was further shown that , under otherwise parallel conditions , there was much more nitrogen as nitric acid in soils and subsoils down to a depth of 108 inches where leguminous than where gramineous crops had for some time been grown .
The indication was that nitrification had been more active under the influence of leguminous than of gramineous growth and crop residue .
At the same time , comparing the amounts of nitrogen as nitric acid in the soil where the shallow rooting Trifolium repens had previously been grown , with those where the deeper rooting Vicia sativa had yielded fair crops , it was found that , at every depth of 9 inches down to a total depth of 108 inches , the Vicia soil contained much less nitric acid than the Trifolium repens soil ; and it was concluded that much if not the whole , of the nitrogen of the Vicia crops had been taken up as nitric acid .
Hew results of the same kind , which related to experiments with Trifolium repens as a shallow rooting and meagrely yielding plant , to Melilotus leucanthaas a deeper rooting and freer growing one , and to Medicago sativa as a still deeper rooting and still freer growing plant , very strikingly illustrated and confirmed the result of the exhaustion of the nitric acid of the subsoil by the strong , deeprooting , and high nitrogen-yielding Leguminosae .
For example , at each of the twelve depths of the Medicago soil there remained very much less nitrogen as nitric acid than where very much less nitrogen had been removed in the Trifoiium repens crops ; there being-on the average not one-twelfth as much in the lower ten depths of the Medicago soil as in the corresponding depths of the Trifolium repens soil .
Still , the figures did not justify the conclusion that the whole of the large amount of nitrogen taken up by the Sir J. B. Laws and Prof. J. H. Gilbert .
Medicago crops , could have had its source in nitric acid .
It is obvious that much nitrification takes place near the surface , but as the surface-soil became even somewhat richer in nitrogen , it was clear that the surface-soil has not been the primary source of the large amounts of nitrogen taken up by the plants .
That source must in fact be either the atmosphere , or the subsoil ; and if the subsoil , and yet not wholly as nitric acid , the question arises in what other form of combination . ?
In another experiment , one leguminous crop , beans , had been grown for many years in succession , and finally yielded very small crops , containing less than 30 lbs. of nitrogen per acre .
The land was then left fallow for several years ; barley and clover were sown in 1883 , and in that year , 1884 , and 1885 , about 300 lbs. of nitrogen per acre were removed , chiefly in the clover crops .
This result was obtained where another leguminous crop had practically failed , where the surface-soil had become very poor in total nitrogen , where there existed a very small amount of ready-formed nitric acid to a considerable depth , and where the surface was unusually poor in nitrogenous crop residue for nitrification .
Further , not only had this large amount of nitrogen been removed in the clover crops , but the surface-soil became determinably richer in nitrogen .
Here again , then , the primary source of the nitrogen , of the crop could not have been the surface-soil itself .
It must have been either the atmosphere , or the subsoil ; and assuming it to be the subsoil , the question arises whether it was taken up as nitric acid , as ammonia , or as organic nitrogen P The results adduced could leave no doubt that nitric acid was an important source of the nitrogen of the Leguminosae .
Indeed , existing experimental evidence relating to nitric acid carries us quantitatively further than any other line of explanation .
But it is obviously quite inadequate to account for the facts of growth , either in the case of the Medicago sativa experiments , or in that of the clover on the bean-exhausted land .
Direct experiments were made to determine whether the nitrogen of the Rothamsted raw clay subsoils , from which it is assumed much nitrogen has been derived in some way , was susceptible of nitrification , provided the nitrifying organisms , and other necessary conditions , were present .
It was found that the nitrogen of such subsoils , containing only about 0'04 or 0'05 per cent , of nitrogen , and not more than 6 or 8 parts of carbon to 1 part of nitrogen , was susceptible of nitrification .
It was also found that nitrification was more active in leguminous than in gramineous crop subsoils .
Obviously , however , the conditions of nitrification in which samples are exposed in the laboratory , are very different from those of the subsoil in situ .
On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetation .
Ill Although the evidence is c'ear that the nitrogen of raw clay subsoils , which constitutes an enormous store of already combined nitrogen , is susceptible of nitrification , provided the organisms are present and the supply of oxygen is sufficient , the data at command do not indicate that these conditions could be adequately available in such cases as those of the very large accumulations of nitrogen by the Medicago sativa for a number of years in succession , or by the red clover on the bean-exhausted land .
The question arose\#151 ; whether roots , by virtue of their acid sap , might not , either directly take up , or at any rate attack and liberate for further change , the otherwise insoluble organic nitrogen of the subsoil .
Accordingly , in the autumn of 1885 specimens of the deep , strong , fleshy root of the Medicago sativa were collected and examined , when it was found that the sap was very strongly acid .
The degree of acidity was determined , and attempts were made so to free the extract from nitrogenous bodies as to render it available for determining whether or not it would attack and take up the nitrogen of the raw clay subsoil .
Hitherto , however , these attempts have been unsuccessful .
Also in the autumn of 1885 , when this difficulty first arose , it was decided , in the mean time , to examine the action on soils and subsoils of various organic acids , in solutions of a degree of acidity either approximately the same as that of the lucerne root-juice , or having a known relation to it .
The acids used were the malic , citric , tartaric , oxalic , acetic , and formic .
It was found that the weak organic acid solutions did fake up some nitrogen from the raw clay subsoil , and more from the poor lucerne surface-soil .
But when solutions of only approximately the acidity of the root-sap were agitated with an amount of soil which it was thought would be sufficient to yield so much nitrogen as to insure accurate determination , it was found that the acid frequently became neutralised by the bases of the soil , and that less nitrogen remained dissolved after a contact of twenty-four hours , or more , than after only one hour .
The strength of the acid liquids was therefore in-ci eased , and the relation of soil to acid diminished .
More nitrogen was then taken up , and more after the longer than the shorter period of contact .
Still , on adding fresh acid solution to the already once extracted soil , a limit to the amount of nitrogen rendered soluble was soon reached .
Here again , the conditions of experiment in the laboratory are not comparable with those of the action of living roots on the soil , and the results obtained do not justify any very definite conclusions as to whether the action of the roots on the soil by virtue of their acid sap is quantitatively an important source of the nitrogen of plants having an extended development of roots , of which the sap is strongly acid .
Sir J. B. Laws and Prof. J. H. Gilbert .
Provided this were clearly established to be the case , the question would still remain , whether the complex nitrogenous body is merely rendered soluble , and taken up as such , as is probably the case with the fungi , or whether , after being attacked , it is subjected to further change before entering the plant ?
In the autumn of 1885 , Dr. G. Loges published the results of experiments in which he acted upon soils by pretty strong hydrochloric acid , and determined the amount of nitrogen taken up ( ' Versuchs-Stationen , ' vol. 32 , p. 201 ) .
One of his soils contained 0804 , and the other 0'367 per cent , of nitrogen ; whilst the surface soil of the lucerne plot at Rothamsted contained only about 0T22 , and the subsoil , which is assumed to have yielded large quantities of nitrogen to the crops , little more than 0'04 per cent. Again , in the one case , Loges found 40 per cent. , and in the other 22'6 per cent. , of the total nitrogen taken up .
It is obvious , therefore , that such an action is not directly comparable with that of root-sap on a poor subsoil .
Loges states that in experimenting with a great variety of soils he has always found the hydrochloric acid extract gave the phospho-tungstic precipitate , from which it is concluded that the substance taken up is an amide or peptone body .
Still more recently , MM .
Berthelot and Andre ( ' Count .
Rend .
, ' vol. 103 , 1886 , p. 1101 ) have published the results of experiments to determine the character of the insoluble nitrogenous compounds in soils , and of the changes they undergo when acted upon by hydrochloric acid of various strengths , for shorter or longer periods , and at different temperatures .
They found the nitrogen in the extract existed partly as ammonia , but in much larger proportion as soluble amides , and that the amounts obtained for both increased with the strength of acid , the time of contact , and the temperature .
They also call attention to the fact that when the clear filtered acid extract is exactly neutralised by potash , one portion of the amide still remains soluble , whilst another is precipitated , showing that the amides rendered soluble constitute two groups .
Such re-precipitation is quite in accordance with the results obtained in our own experiments , in which less nitrogen remained dissolved after twenty-four hours , than after only one hour 's contact , when , with the longer period , the acidity of the extract became neutralised .
As in Loges ' experiments , so in those of MM .
Berthelot and Andre , the strength of acid used was in all cases much greater than in that of the Rothamsted experiments , and very much greater than is likely to occur in any root-sap .
Further , the soil they operated upon was about four times as rich in nitrogen as the Rothamsted subsoils , whilst , with the strongest acid , and a temperature of 100 ' C. , about one-* fourth of the total nitrogen of the soil was dissolved .
Still , the results of Loges , and of Berthelot and Andre , are of much On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetation .
interest as confirming the supposition that the insoluble nitrogenous compounds in soils are amide bodies , and as indicating the changes to which they are subject when acted upon by acids .
Supposing the acid root-sap so to act bn the insoluble organic nitrogen of the soil , and especially of the subsoil , as already said , the question still remains , whether the amide rendered soluble is taken up as such , or undergoes further change before serving as food for the plant ?
It is seen that ammonia is an essential result of the reaction ; and as , so far as our experiments go , nitric acid seems to be a more prominent constituent of the root-sap than ammonia , the question arises whether the liberated ammonia is not oxidated into nitric acid before being taken up p Then , again , is the soluble amide subjected to further change\#151 ; perhaps first yielding ammonia , and this again nitric acid ?
On this supposition we are again met with the difficulty as to the sufficient aeration of the subsoil .
Supposing any considerable amount of the amide rendered soluble may be taken up by the plant as such , it is obviously of interest to consider what is the evidence bearing on the question whether plants can take up such bodies and assimilate their nitrogen ?
The conditions of experiment and the results obtained by various experimenters , have therefore been considered .
The substances which have been experimented upon are\#151 ; urea , uric acid , hippuric acid , guanine , phosphate of ammonia , glycocoll , creatine , and tyrosin .
In some cases the experiments have been made in soil , but in most by the water-culture method .
In the majority of cases there could be little doubt that the complex nitrogenous body contributed nitrogen to the plant , either directly or indirectly .
In the case of the experiments with soil as a matrix , there was no direct evidence that the plant took up the complex organic body , as such ; and the probability is that it suffered change before becoming available .
In some of the water-culture experiments , especially when urea was used , that substance was found within the plant , and it was concluded that it contributed directly as a source of nitrogen to it .
Hampe also concluded that glycocoll was as available as nitric acid as nitrogenous food to plants .
Upon the whole it seems probable , that green-leaved plants can take up soluble complex nitrogenous organic bodies , when these are presented to them under such conditions as in water-culture experiments , and that they cau transform them , and appropriate their nitrogen .
If this be the case , it would seem not improbable that they could take up directly , and utilise , amide bodies rendered soluble within the soil by the action of their acid root-sap .
In connexion with the subject of the conditions under which the insoluble organic nitrogen of soils and subsoils may become available to chlorophyllous plants , some results of Frank may be briefly conSir J. B. Laws and Prof. J. H. Gilbert .
sidered .
He observed that the feeding roots of certain trees were covered with a fungus , the threads of which forced themselves between the epidermal cells into the root itself , which in such cases had no hairs , but similar bodies were found external to the fungus-mantle , which prolonged into threads among the particles of soil .
In the case of the Cupuliferae the occurrence seemed to be universal , and it was to a great extent limited to them , though it has been observed on willows , and on some conifers .
The development was the greatest in the first few inches or richer layers of soil .
Frank considered the action to be one of true symbiosis , and concluded that the chlorophyl-lous tree acquires its soil nutriment through the agency of the fungus .
Here , then , is a mode of accumulation by some green-leaved plants which allies them very closely to fungi themselves ; indeed , it is by an action on the soil which characterises non-chlorophyllous plants , that the chlorophyllous plant acquires its soil supplies of nutriment .
But inasmuch as the action is the most marked in the surface layers of soil rich in humus , and it is stated that the development has not been observed on the roots of any herbaceous plants , the facts so far recorded do not aid us in the explanation of the acquirement of nitrogen by deep and strong rooted Leguminosae from raw clay subsoils .
Still , in view of the office within the soil which is by some attributed to micro-organisms , and other low forms , the observations are not without interest .
Only very brief reference can be here made to the numerous experiments which have been conducted in recent years , the results of which are held to afford evidence that free nitrogen contributes to the yield in our crops \#151 ; either through the agency of the plant itself , or of the soil under the influence of micro-organisms , or of other non-chloro-phyllous forms .
Some years ago , Berthelot called in question the validity of the conclusions from the experiments of Boussingault , ourselves , and others , in which it was sought to determine whether plants assimilated the free nitrogen of the atmosphere , by growing them in enclosed vessels which excluded the possibility of electrical action within the plant or the soil .
It is at any rate coincident with the pretty general acceptance of this objection , which obviously puts out of court more exact methods , and exposes the experimenter to many more possible sources of error , that there has been a great accession of experimental evidence adduced , which is held to show the participation of the free nitrogen of the atmosphere in the results of growth .
Had the results so obtained by various experimenters been at all accordant one with another , the fact might have been considered proof that the objection was fully justified .
They are , however , in a quantitative point of view , so conflicting , without any adequate explanation in the methods On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vegetation .
115 described , that it is impossible to accept the whole as they stand , and for the present it seems necessary to hold judgment on them in abeyance .
The various results alluded to will be discussed in some detail in our full paper , but we can only briefly refer here to some of the various modes of explanation which have been suggested .
In the experiments of M. Berthelot , in all of which the gains of nitrogen are comparatively small , they have in some cases been attributed to electrical action , and in others to the action of micro-organisms within the soil .
Frank , experimenting with a soil very rich in nitrogen , found a loss of combined nitrogen ; but , in the case of vegetation experiments , with a less rich soil , he generally found a gain .
He concluded that two opposite actions are at work within the soil\#151 ; one by which nitrogen is set free , and another by which it is brought into combination ; the latter being favoured by the presence of living plants .
He admits that there is no decisive evidence how this takes place ; but he seems to assume that it is under the influence of micro-organisms .
Hellriegel , again , found that lupins did not grow well in an experimental soil , until he added to it the watery extract of a soil from a field where lupins were growing luxuriantly .
After this , his experimental plants also grew well , developed the well-known nodules on their roots , and showed a gain of nitrogen .
This , he suggested , was probably due to the action of the nodules within the soil , bringing the free nitrogen of the air into combination , and thus rendering it available to the growing lupins .
The results of Tschirch and these of Brunchorst have , however , been held to be conclusive against such a view .
According to their experiments , the nodules have no external communication with the soil , but receive their nutriment from the plant itself .
On this point it is of interest to observe that , according to the recent experiments of Mr. Marshall Ward , on the death of the nodules the spores become distributed in the soil , and , if this be the case , the possibility of some action , whatever that may be , is not yet disproved .
Whatever may be the exact facts in the cases cited , it is at any rate clear that recent lines of explanation of the mode in which some of the higher plants derive their nitrogen involve the supposition of the intervention of lower organisms in some way .
It must , however , be admitted on a review of the conflicting results at present at command , that they do not justify any confident conclusion that the compensations supposed do take place in any important degree , or that free nitrogen is to any important extent brought into combination under the influence of the lower organisms .
In the meantime it seems not inappropriate to devote attention to some other aspects of the subject .
We would submit that a careful consideration of the history of 116 On the Sources of the Nitrogen of agriculture , both ancient and modern , fails to afford evidence of compensation such as is now sought , for .
Indeed we would say , as we have done before , that\#151 ; " The history of agriculture throughout the world , so far as it is known , clearly shows that a fertile soil is one which has accumulated within it the residue of ages of previous vegetation , and that it becomes insertile as this residue is exhausted .
' ' ?
In conclusion , we would call attention to the fact , that in the Rothamsted soil and subsoil , down to the depth at which the action of roots has been proved , there exists a store of about 20,000 lbs. per acre of already combined nitrogen .
It is true that many soils will Contain much less , but many much more .
There is then obviously still a wide field for inquiry as to whether or not , or in what way , the very large store of already existing combined nitrogen may become available to growing vegetation .
We have indicated some of the lines of investigation which we are ourselves following up ; and we would submit that , whether or not the lower organisms may be proved to have the power of bringing free nitrogen into combination , it would at any rate be not inconsistent with well-established facts , were it found that the lower serve the higher by bringing into an available condition the large stores of combined nitrogen already existing , but in a comparatively inert state , in our soils and subsoils .

