6 .
" Geological Remarks on Kerguelen 's Land .
" By R. McCormick , Esq. , Surgeon R.N. of H.M.S. Erebus .
Communicated by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
The northern extremity of the island is described as being entirely of volcanic origin .
The trap rocks , of which the headlands are composed , form a succession of terraces nearly horizontal .
Basalt is the prevailing rock : it assumes the prismatic form , and passes into greenstone , and the various modifications of amygdaloid and porphyry .
The general direction of the mountain-ranges inclines to the south-west and north-east , and they vary in height from 500 to 2500 feet .
Many of the hills are intersected by trap dykes , usually of basalt .
Several conical hills , with crater-shaped summits , are found , evidently the remains of volcanic vents .
Three or four very singular isolated hills , composed of an igneous slaty sandstone , occur in Cumberland Bay , presenting very smooth outlines , and consisting of piles of broken fragments , through which the mass protrudes , in places , in prismatic columns .
Vast quantities of debris are accumulated at the base of the hills , in many places to the height of 200 or 300 feet or more , affording strong evidence of the rapid disintegration this land is undergoing , from the sudden atmospheric vicissitudes to which it is exposed .
The whole island is deeply indented by bays and inlets , and its surface intersected by numerous small lakes and water courses .
These , becoming swollen by the heavy rains , which alternate with frost and snow , rush down the sides of the mountains and along the ravines in countless impetuous torrents , forming , in many places , beautiful foaming cascades , wearing away the rocks , and strewing the platforms and valleys below with vast fragments of rocks and slopes of rich alluvium , the result of their decomposition .
The most remarkable geological feature in the island is the occur ?
rence of fossil wood and coal , and what is still more extraordinary , these are imbedded in the igneous rocks .
The wood , which is for the most part highly silicified , is found enclosed in the basalt ; whilst the coal crops out in ravines , in close contact with the overlying porphyritic and amygdaloidal greenstone .
A few outline sketches of the rocks and scenery , in various parts of the island , accompany this paper .

