Pineal O , \#183 ; gans and Adjacent Parts of the Brain in Tuatara .
629 Thus the mix \lt ; l culture of Azotobacter and Pseudomonas gave an increase of 35 milligrammes of nitrogen on the limed soil , and an increase of 26 milligrarnmes of nitrogen on the unlimed soil .
This gain of nitrogen was not due to any material prese~t in the culture solution , for the autoclaved culture solution shows a gain of 6 milligrammes of nitrogen only , derived chiefly from the dead bacteria in the solution .
Taking an acre of soil 4 inches deep as weighing about 1,000,000 lbs. , a gain of is milligrammes of nitrogen per ] 00 grammes would represent an increase of nearly 350 lbs. of nitrogen per acre .
That the nitrogen fixed by this mixed culture of bacteria in the soil is readily a':lsimilated by plants is shown by a number of experiments now in progress , full details of which will be described in a future communication .
On the Structure , Development , and Morphological Interp1\#183 ; etation of the Pineal Organs and Adjacent Parts of the Brain in the Tuatara ( Sphenudon punctatus ) .
By ARTHUR DENDY , D .Sc .
, F.R.S. , Sec. L.S. , Professor of Zoology in King 's College ( University of London ) .
( Received June 22 , -Read June 30 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) The memoir of which an abstract is here given contains a detailed account of the pineal organs and associated parts of the brain in Sphenodon , from the morphological , histological , and embryological points of view , accompanied by numerous illustratiom : , and may be regarded as a continuation and amplification of my earlier work on the subject .
The material upon which my results are based consisted partly of a number of adult living Tuataras presented to me by the New Zealand Government , the cost of transmission of which to England was defrayed by a grant from the Government Grant Committee , and partly of specim~ns ( chiefly embryos ) preserved by mysel.f while in New Zealand .
I defer the expression of my thanks to the numerouR friends who have helped me in the work until the publication of the complete memoir .
As I have already pointed out in my work on the intracranial vascular system , * there is in Sphenorlon a very extensive subclural cavity between the brain and the cranial wall , and advantage was taken of this fact to fix the * 'J:'hil .
Trans. , ' B , 1909 .
630 Prof. Dendy .
Structure , etc. , of the Pinecil Organs [ June 22 , delicate organs of the pineal complex in situ by the injection into the cranial cavity of acetic bichromate of potash .
After fixation the pineal eye itself , , with the parietal plug , can be dissected clean out of the parietal foramen , and the necessity of decalcification before section cutting thus avoided .
The " pineal complex " is formed chiefly by the dorsal sac , the paraphysis and the pineal sac ( " epiphysis " or right pineal organ ) , united in a common pial investment and forming a bilaterally flattened , funnel-shaped structure attached above to the cranial roof by the dura mate1 ' anJ below to the optic thalami and habenular ganglia .
Across the subdural space numerous fine threads of connective tissue extend from the surface of the brain to the dura matter , and these are concentrated to form imperfectly developed vertical supporting membranes for the pineal complex , one placed transversely on either side of the dorsal sac and one lying in the sagittal plane behind the pineal sac .
The very large subdural space arises late in development , which perhaps indicates that the relatively small size of the brain is a cmnogenetic character due to arrested growth .
The fundamental relations of the different parts of the fore-brain and its derivates in Sphenodon are already to a large exte n't familiar to us , but the following points may be noticed : Gisi has described the lateral choroid plexuses ( plexiis hemisphcerium ) as arising from a transverse fold behind the paraphysial opening , while Elliot Smith has described them as arising from a transverse fold in front of the paraphysial opening .
The explanation of this discrepancy is that while they really arise one on either side of the paraphysial opening their roots of attachment may extend a little in front of and behind the latter .
There is no unpaired plexus rnedianus as described by Gisi .
The paraphysis , as I have previously shown , is part of the same system of folds of the epithelial lamina s-upraneuroporiea which gives rise to the plexus hemisphmrium , but growing outwards instead of inwards .
It originally opens into the prosencephalon immediately in front of the commissiira aberrans .
In an advanced stage of development , however , a longitudinal supra-commissural canal is formed above the commissura aberrans , and this leads to the formation of a new opening for the paraphysis in the adult , directly into the dorsal sac at some distance above the commissure .
The original opening of the paraphysis , in front of the commissiira aberrans , is blocked up by the growth of the anterior choroidal veins and arteries .
There is no true commissura mollis as described by Gisi , though the lateral walls of the third ventricle come into contact with one another over a considerable area .
1910.J and Adfctcent Parts of the Brain in the Tuatara .
G31 Both in advanced embryos and in the adult animal three pairs of lateral diverticula , in addition to the cerebral hemispheres , the optic lobes , and the pineal outgrowths , open into the central canal of the fore- and mid-brain .
These are , from in front backwards , ( 1 ) the recessus optici laterales , which appear to be remnants of the cavities of the stalks of the optic vesicles ; ( 2 ) a pair for which I propose the name recessiis thalami prenucleares , because they lie in the substance of the optic thalami in front of the nilclei rotundi ; ( 3 ) the reccssus geniculi ( of Gisi ) , which lie on either\#183 ; side of the entrance to the iter , beneath the posterior commissure .
It is suggested that these three pairs of diverticula may be serially homologous with one another and with the cerebral hemispheres , the outgrowths which form the pineal senseorgans and the optic lobes , aml that each of these pairs of outgrowths indicates an original neuromere .
In accordance with this view the cerebral hemispheres would belong to the first neuromere of the fore-brain , the optic vesicles of the lateral eyes to the second , the recessus thal(l ?
ni pre- 1iitcleares to the third , and the pineal outgrowths to the fourth , while the recessus genicnli would belong to the first , and the optic lobes to the second neuromere of the mid-brain .
The middle portion of the pineal complex is formed by the thin-walled dorsal sac , the roof of which gives rise to a well-developed choroid plexus supplied by branches of the saccular arteries .
The folds of this choroid plexus are covered with an epithelium composed of polygonal cells with well-defined boundaries and conspicuous nuclei .
Attached to this epithelial layer , and lying in the cavity of the dorsal sac between the folds of the choroid plexus , is a cytoplasmic network containing numerous nuclei and apparently composed of extrusive connective-tissue cells .
The choroid plexuses of the fourth and lateral ventricles are practically identical in histological structure with that of the dorsal sac .
The paraphysis grows upwards immediately in front of the dorsal sac , and its upper end turns backwards over the roof of the latter .
It must be regarded as a compound tubular gland .
Its walls become greatly folded , and in the adult we find a central lumen surrounded by numerous crypts and opening into the dorsal sac .
Between the crypts numerous blood spaces develop , which sometimes form a regular network of thin-walled sinuses or capillaries .
These are supplied with blood by parapbysial branches of the saccular and anterior choroidal arteries , and drain into the sinus longitudinalis beneath the pineal sac .
The parnpbysis is invested by pia 1natrr , which attaches it firmly to the dorsal sac .
Its epithelial lining has a very characteristic histological structure , consisting of a single layer of cells without distinct boundaries , and connected 632 Prof. Dendy .
Stnwtw , \#183 ; e , etc. , of the Pineal Organs [ June 22 , together by radiating threads of cytoplasm to form a syncytium .
In connection with this epithelium there is a very conspicuous but irregular network of nucleated cytoplasm lying in the paraphysial lumina .
The nuclei in this network are very poor in chromatin and undergo amitotic division .
Sometimes little rounded knobs , covered with the syncytial epithelium , project from the wall of the paraphysis into its various cavities .
I have already described the origin of the two pineal organs from the brain-roof , and how , from its first appearance , the one which is destined to give rise to the pineal eye usually lies a little to the left of the other , which will give rise to the pineal sac .
I am now able to confirm Schauinsland 's subsequent observation that these two vesicles are at first in open communication with one another , but I do not consider that this need prevent us from regarding them as members of an originally symmetrical pair , and fresh evidence in favour of this view is put forward in the present memoir .
The opening of the pineal sac into the third ventricle , between the superior and posterior commissures , closes up at a comparatively early date , but vestiges of the connection remain in the " infra-pineal recess " and in the " pineal tract " by which the pineal sac of the adult remains connected with the brain-roof .
The pineal sac grows upwards in close contact with the posterior wall of the dorsal sac , to which it is firmly attached by the pia ma , ter , and its upper end turns forwards over the roof of the dorsal sac and over the upper part of the paraphysis .
In the adult it is a relatively large organ and takes an important part in the formation of the pineal complex .
It remains tubular , but its walls become greatly folded and much thickened .
They are supplied with blood by the anterior and posterior pineal arteries and drain into the sinus longitudinalis .
There is little or no evidence that the pineal sac is a glandular body , but , on the contrary , its histological structure points to a sensory function .
Its thick wall is made up of nucleated radial supporting fibres , numerous ganglion-cells and nervefibres , and numerous sense-cells whose inner ends project slightly into the lumen of the organ .
These constituents are identical with those which occur in the retina of the pineal eye , and their arrangement is essentially the same .
In one case , in which the tip of the pineal sac projected unusually far forwards , so as to come under the influence of the light passing through the transparent parietal plug , a pigmented evagination of the wall of the pineal sac was formed , and the resemblance to the retina of the pineal eye became still more obvious .
These observations , confirming and extending earlier observations by Hoffmann , Gisi , and myself , greatly strengthen the view that the pineal sac and pineal eye are bilaterally homologous structures .
The pineal sac is provided with a well-developed nerve , composed of non1910 .
J and AdJacent Parts of the Brain in the Tuatara .
633 medullated fibres , which runs in the " pineal tract " and joins the brain-roof in the middle line between the superior and posterior commissures , which remain perfectly distinct throughout life .
The histological structure of the pineal eye itself has been investigated with especial care , and various methods of fixation and staining have been employed for the purpose .
The sharp distinction between lens and retina appears at a very early date , and though they remain in contact with one another throughout life , the actual connection between the two is henceforth very slight , and the transition from the one to the other is perfectly abrupt .
At a very early stage the development of the nerve-fibres divides the retina into a thick inner and a thin outer layer , with the nerve-fibre layer between them .
The inner layer contains many nuclei uelonging to sensecells , and also nuclei which belong to ganglion-cells .
The outer layer contains only a single layer of nuclei , belonging to the radial supporting fibres .
Later on the ganglion-cells come to lie more to the outside of the nerve-fibre layer , next to the nuclei of the radial fibres .
Iu the adult retina , omitting for the moment the pigment , we find only three kinds of histological elements : ( 1 ) radial supporting fibres , ( 2 ) ganglioncells anrl nerve-fiures , ( 3 ) sense-cells .
The radial supporting fibres are comparable to the Muller 's fibres in the lateral eyes , and prouably extend right through from surface to surface of the retiua , their inner ends forming the well-developed internal limiting membrane , and their outer ends abutting against the inner capsule of the eye .
Their nuclei appear to be all lodged in their outer portions , which have the misleading appearance of a layer of short conical cells .
The ganglion-cells arc numerous , and are readily distinguished by their large spherical nuclei , finely granular cytoplasm ( with usually one large projection ) , and the shrinkage cavity which surrounds them .
The sense-cells are slender , elongatedly spindle-shaped , with large oval nuclei .
Their outer ends nm into the layer of nerve-fibres .
Their inner ends project slightly into Lhe cavity of the eye , but are covered with little conical caps , formed apparently by extension of the internal limiting membrane .
In most respects the structure of the retina agrees closely with that of Anguis and Lacerta as recently describerl by Nowikoff .
That author , however , gives a somewhat ciifferent account of the projecting encls of the 8ense-cells arnl of the distrilmLiun of the pigment .
Baldwin Spencer considered that in Sphenodon the pigment was especially associated .
with the Hense-cells ; Nowikoff , on the other hand , maintains that 634 Prof. Dendy .
Structure , etc. , of the Pineal Organs [ June 22 , in Anguis and Lacerta the pigment is lodged in the radial supporting fibres .
According to my own observations on Sphenodon , the pigment granules lie between the various constituents of the retina , and are brought in from outside the eye by wandering pigment cells .
Such cells are abundant in the connective tissue around the eye , between the inner and outer capsules , and sometimes they also occur in the form of pigment-balls in the cavity of the eye itself , having apparently passed through the retina without breaking up and discharging their contents .
Usually , however , they appear to break up in the outer part of the retina , and the granules which they contain stream in in radial lines and streaks between the radial fibres and sense-cells , io such an extent as greatly to obscure the histological structure of the retina .
The wandering pigment-cells may possibly obtain their pigment granules from the very large stellately branched pigment cells which lie in the dura matter outside the capsule of the pineal eye .
The pigment is especially abundant towards the margins of the retinal cup , near its junction with the lens , and here accessory cavities are not infrequently developed in the retina , each surrounded by radiating streaks of pigment granules .
The lens contains only occasionally a very few pigment granules .
The vitreous body also usually contains very little if any pigment , but occasionally a good deal .
At stage R , when the pigment first appears , it is found only in very minute granules , chiefly , if not entirely , in the inner part of the retina .
In the adult much coarser granules appear , though the small ones can still be recognised in the innermost part of the retina .
Perhaps the most novel results obtained are those which concern the lens of the pineal eye , which is shown to be a glandular organ , secreting part , at any rate , of the vitreous body .
At a very early stage in development we can recognise two zones in the lens , an outer or marginal zone , in which the cells remain undifferentiated and continue to divide actively by mitosis ; and a central portion in which the cells become greatly elongated at right angles to the two surfaces of the lens , " which thereby becomes greatly thickened in the middle .
Growth of the lens is probably effected mainly by the marginal zone of actively dividing cells , but it is not impossible that the cells may continue to divide after elongation .
The distinction between the central and marginal zones of cells persists to a very late stage in development , though possibly not in the adult .
In the adult the arrangement of the elongated cells becomes far less uniform , and they are irregularly curved so as to appear cut through in .
various directions in vertical sections .
They probably extend right through from surface to surface of the lens , but their inner ends are somewhat 1910.J and .Adjacent Pctrts of the Brain in the Tuatara .
635 specially differentiated , and project as small rounded protuberances into the cavity of the eye .
The nuclei are situated at various levels , and the cytoplasm of the inner portions of the cells is very distinctly fibrillated in a longitudinal direction , while darkly staining bodies resembling centrosomes can someLimes be seen close to the inner extremities of the cells .
In the adult lens , about the middle , one usually , if not always , finds one or more irregular masses of a finely granular , deeply staining substance .
It was the observation of a large mass of this kind , with a centrally placed nucleus , which le\lt ; l to my description of a " central cell " in the lens , and it was chiefly with a view to further investigation of this remarkable structure that this research was undertaken .
I now find that such central masses are very constant features of the adult lens , and their true nature was indicated by the fortunate occurrence of an adult specimen in which such a mass was actually being extruded in the form of " mucus " into the cavity of the eye to take part in the formation of the vitreous body .
I have observed this extrusion of " mucus " in Lo the cavity of the eye in several cases , and as early as stage R. With the " mucus , " nuclei may pass out from the lens , and there can be no doubt that the secretion is formed by degeneration of cells in the middle of the lens .
The extrusion always appears to take place from the middle of the lower surface of the lens at a very definite spot , but an actual aperture is probably present only at the time when the secretion is being poured out .
The vitreous body always contains , in preparations , a reticulum of slender fibres or thin lamellre , and some of these are attached , on the one hand , to the inner surface of the lens , and , on the other , to the inner surface of the retina , apparently in many cases to the projecting ends of the sense-cells , but probably really to the caps which cover these .
Whether the presence of this reticulum is clue to post-mortc1 , i changes or not remains an open question .
A large amount of time has been devoted to following out the course of Lhe nerve of the pineal eye , and I have been able to demonstrate very clearly that it is not a median structure , but belongs to the left side of the body-another striking piece of evidence in favour of the paired origin of the pineal organs .
In the adult animal the anterior end of the nerYe , like the eye itself , has been shifted into the middle line .
For the greater part of its course , ho..yever , it lies between the wall of the pineal sac and the wall of the dorsal sac , and considerably to the left side of the middle line .
It is Yery easy to follow it from the eye towards the brain up to a certain point , where it breaks up into a number of separate strands .
This poinL lies between the posterior 636 Pro\#163 ; Dendy .
Structure , etc. , of the Pineal 0 , \#183 ; gans [ June 22 , wall of the dorsal sac and the anterior wall of the pineal sac , not far from the lower extremity of the latter .
Up to this point it consists of a welldefined bundle of non-medullated nerve-fibres , with a definite sheath of connective tissue in its more anterior portion , and with numerous elongated nuclei lying between the nerve-fibres .
It exactly resembles an ordinary non-medullated nerve , and I can see no reason for regarding it as exhibiting degeneration .
The separate strands into which it breaks up at the point me11tioned , however , do not contain the characteristic elongated nuclei , which doubtless really belong to associated connective-tissue or nutrient cells , and owing to the slenderness of these strands , and the difficulty of distinguishing them from the connective-tissue fibres of the pia matter , I have not succeeded in following them continuously to the brain in the adult animal .
In several series of sections of embryos of different ages , however , the nerve has been traced to the brain as one continuous bundle of fibres without difficulty , and it is quite clear that it enters the left habenular ganglion .
It becomes closely attached to the roof of the dorsal sac , however , before it reaches the habenular ganglion-or the spot where this will be developed-and this fact probably explains why the lower part of the nerve is broken up into separate strands in the adult , for the rapid growth of the thin wall of the dorsal sac may be supposed to cause the spreading out of the nerve-fibres over its surface .
Nerve-fibres first appear in the retina of the pineal eye while the latter is still resting upon the brain-roof , and I have come to the conclusion that they grow from the retina to the brain as in the case of the lateral eye .
A. curious feature of the nerve of the pineal eye in the adult animal is that it receives bundles of nerve-fibres from the wall of the pineal sac as well as from the eye itself .
This point has already been noted by Gisi .
The left habenular ganglion in the adult is produced upwards to meet the wall of the dorsal sac in a characteristic manner at a point where it receives nerve-fibres from the latter in special abundance .
The right habenular ganglion also receives fibres from the wall of the dorsal sac , but is not produced upwards to the same extent as the left one .
This asymmetrical development of the habenular ganglia further supports the conclusion that the left habenular ganglion is especially associated with the pineal eye . .
It is extremely difficult to form any conclusion as to how far the pineal eye of Sphenodon still functions as a light-percipient organ .
Such experiments as have hitherto been made have yielded entirely negative results .
The concentration of a bright light upon the skin above the pineal eye 1910.J and Adjacent Parts of the Brain in the Tuatara .
637 dicits , so far as I have been able to make out , no response ; but then it must be remembered that the animals are extremely sluggish , and a similar " xperiment with the lateral eye may be continued for some time withou_t producing any visible effect beyond the contraction of the iris .
Structurally , the only sign of degeneration which the pineal eye exhibits is to be found in the very large amount of pigment present in it in the adult , for I do not think we need regard the degeneration of the central lens-cells into the mucus which helps to form the vitreous body as of any significance iu this respect .
Eigenmann has shown that a great deal of pigment is developed in association with the degenerating lateral eyes of the blind fishes , Lucifuga and Arnblyopsis , buL the degeneration of the pineal eye of Sphenodon does not approach in degree that of the lateral eyes of these types , and there seems no reason why it should not still function as a light-percipient organ .
The formation of images by the lens is , of course , out of the question , on account of the irregular arrangement of the small scales which overlie the parietal foramen .
I find from direct experiment , however , that light can pass through the integument at this point , and also through the more or less transparent parietal plug which covers the pineal eye in the foramen .
Reissner 's fibre and the sub-commissural organ ( " ependymal groove " ) are well developed in Sphenodon , and appear to have the usual relations .
The latter has the form of a deep groove , lined by the characteristic greatly ~longated columnar epithelial cells , and extending forwards from near the hinder end of the posterior comrnissure , beneath the latter , to the infrapineal recess .
Reissner 's fibre is already conspicuous at stage S.

