On the Influence of NVerves and Ganglions in producing Animal Heat .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. presented by the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry .
Read March 17 , 1825 .
[ Plhil .
Trans. 1825 , p. 257 .
] Sir Everard begins this paper by adducing several instances of the existence of brain and nerves in animals , which however have no power of generating heat ; this is the case with the Oyster , the Snail , and the Water-muscle .
In the Leech , the Earthworm , and the insect tribe generally , the nervous filaments are united at intervals by ganglions ; and where these exist , the temperature exceeds that of the atmosphere when below 560 , thouiigh in very different degrees , the excess in the leech being only 1P ; while in a hive of bees it is 26 ? .
'These circumstances induced the author to inquire whether any parts of animals possessed of an unusual temperature were devoid of nerves : the heat of the deer 's horn while enclosed in its velvet , was found in the month of June , when only one foot long , to be 960 , and in July the top of the antler was 990 ; the power therefore of generating heat was here so evident , independent of any direct influence of the brain or heart , that it was only necessary to ascertain whether nerves accompanied the blood-vessels , and they were found to do so very numerously .
To ascertain how far animal heat was under the control of the ganglionic nerves , the trunks supplying the velvet of one horn of the deer were divided , while those of the other were left entire ; and the result was , that on the first day the temperature fell 120 short of that of the latter ; on the second day 260 ; on the third day 17 ?
; on the fourth day 8 ?
; and on the fifth 20 .
Forty-eight hours after the division of the nerves , the temperature of the horn fell to within 30 of that of the atmosphere , but the animal having bruised the horn , the diary was discontinued on the sixth day , and it was then hotter than that of which the nerves were entire ; and although the nervous trunk had not reunited , it was evident that some other connection had been formed between the nerves of the horn and head .
The author next adverts to the abundant connexion of the placental nerves with ganglia , as described by Mr. Hawkins on a former occasion .
I'his led him to suspect that the uterus might under particular circumstances of excited action , possess peculiar powers of generating heat ; and he was informed upon inquiry of practitioners in midwifery , that they sometimes found in turning children , the heat almost as great as the hand could endure .
Sir Everard then details the results of some experiments in relation to this subject , which were furnished by Dr. Granville , showing that in certain cases of difficult labour , the temperature of the uterus rises as high during the violence of the pains as 1200 ; and to prove that mere muscular action is not the cause of this production of heat , he observes that the temperature of the heart of a dog in full action is only 101 ?
, and that in certain cases of apoplexy the body becomes alternately hot and cold , the pulse undergoing no variation in its frequency .
Sir Everard concludes this communication with some remarks upon the relation between the proportion of ganglionic nerves and that of temperature above the surrounding medium in certain fishes , and observes that they always appear to bear a direct proportion to each other .
He also notices the enormous supply of nerves sent to the electric organs in the Gymnotus and the Torpedo , which , however , are productive of no remarkable increase of temperature , being entirely free from , and unconnected with , any ganglionic arrangement .
He also suggests the probability of the ganglionic nerves being those which are principally affected in all diseases attended by a considerable elevation of heat beyond the natural standard .

