239 Report on the Psychology and Sociology of the and other Indian Tribes .
By W. H. R. Rivers , M.D. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( An Abstract of Work carried out by the aid of the Gunning Fund of the Koyal Society for the year 1901-1902 .
Communicated by the Secretaries of the Royal Society .
Received October 18 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) Six months were spent in India , the greater part of the time being devoted to the investigation of the Todas of the Nilgiri Hills .
The senses of these people were examined experimentally on the same lines as those followed by the Cambridge Expedition to Torres Straits.* The general result was to confirm the chief conclusion of this expedition that there are no great differences between the senses of savage and civilised races .
In pure sense-acuity little difference was found , and the observations lend no support to the view that the sense-acuity of savage or barbarous races is superior to that of civilised man , the apparent superiority in some cases being due to the training of observation in special directions .
In two senses only is there distinct evidence of difference between Todas and Englishmen in sensory endowment .
The Todas are distinctly less sensitive to pain than the average educated Englishman , and they show the same kind of deficiency in the colour-sense which has been found in other races of low culture , especially in the Papuanf and the Egyptian peasant.^ The Todas are distinctly less sensitive to blue than the average educated Englishman , though differing little in sensibility to red or yellow .
This defect in the sensibility for blue is associated with the deficient nomenclature for this colour which is almost universal in races of low culture ; and the observations on the Todas strengthen the conclusion reached by previous work that physiological insensitiveness is one , though only one , of the factors upon which the defect in language depends .
The most striking feature of Toda colour-vision , however , is the great frequency of colour-blindness .
About five hundred individuals were tested , and over 12 per cent , of the males were found to suffer from typical red-green blindness , the proportion in European races being about 4 per cent. In most races of low culture colour-blindness is less frequent than in * ' Reports of the Cambridge Anthropological Expedition to Torres Straits .
' Cambridge , vol. 2 , Part I , 1901 , and Part II , 1903 .
t Loc .
cit. , p. 48 .
+ ' Journ. Anthrop .
Inst. , ' 1901 , vol. 31 , p. 229 .
Psychology and Sociology of the Todas , etc. Europe , but the Todas show the highest recorded frequency of this condition in any race .
By means of the genealogies preserved by the Todas the relationship between the colour-blind people could be traced , and a body of material was obtained which illustrates the mode of hereditary transmission of the defect .
The Todas were found to be subject to various geometrical-optical illusions ; and quantitative observations were made on the illusion of compared vertical and horizontal lines and on the Miiller-Lyer illusion .
The Todas are subject to the former in a greater degree than English observers , and to the latter in a smaller degree .
The two illusions differ in nature : the former is probably largely physiological in origin , and is neutralised by the experience of civilised life , while the latter is more strictly psychological in character ; and the different reaction of the Todas to the two illusions is in accordance with this difference in their nature .
In every measurement the degree in which the individuals of each race differed from one another was studied ; and a mass of material was collected for the study of variability in the reaction to psychological tests , and for the analysis of the complex conditions upon which the coefficients of variation depend .
On comparing the observations of Todas , Papuans , and Englishmen , all tested by the same methods , and chiefly by the same experimenter , it is found that there is some evidence of a correlation between the degree of general intellectual development and certain simple mental properties or activities which can be tested by experimental methods .
In general intellectual development the Todas occupy an intermediate position between Papuans and Englishmen , and a similar intermediate position is occupied by them in connection with many of the tests.* The social and religious institutions were also studied .
The sociology was investigated largely by means of the genealogical method , f and the system of kinship , the complex marriage regulations and the laws of inheritance and property were worked out in detail .
The Todas were found to possess a highly elaborate religious ceremonial of which only brief sketches had previously been published , while many ceremonies had wholly escaped observation .
In consequence , much time was devoted to the detailed investigation of this ceremonial and of the other features of the Toda religion .
Evidence is given that this religion is one which has undergone degenerative changes , and some evidence is advanced * A full account of the senses of the Todas will be published shortly in the ' British Journal of Psychology , ' vol. 1 , Part IV .
t ' Journ. Authrop .
Inst. , ' 1900 , vol. 30 , p. 74 .
Nitrification with reference to the Purification of Sewage .
241 in favour of a view that the Todas are a people who have once had a culture higher than that they now possess .
When the customs and institutions of the Todas are compared with those of other parts of India , it is found that there is most resemblance with the people of Malabar ; and the view is advanced that the Todas migrated to the Hilgiri Hills from Malabar , and are possibly allied in race to the two chief castes at present existing in that district , the Hairs and Hambutiris .
In addition to the work on the Todas , observations were also made on members of other tribes .
The vision of the Sholagas and Uralis , two wild jungle tribes , was investigated* * * S from several points of view ; and observations , chiefly on colour-blindness , were made on members of other castes or tribes .
A Study of the Process of Nitrification with reference to the Purification of Sewage .
By Hakriette Chick , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received April 1 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Introduction.\#151 ; That nitrification is a biological process was first established with certainty , after long controversy , in 1888 , by the decisive experiments of Plathf and Landolt , t who in this matter confirmed the previous researches of Schlosing and Muntz , S Waringtonjl and Soyka .
IF The discovery of the active living agents followed soon after , when Winogradsky** ( 1890 to 1892 ) isolated the two sets of organisms which , as he showed , co-operate to produce natural nitrification .
These were ( 1 ) the nitrite-producer , B. nitrosomonas , which oxidises ammonia to the nitrite stage only , and ( 2 ) the nitrite-producer , nitrobacter , which carries on the * ' Bull .
Madras Government Museum , ' 1903 , vol. 5 , p. 3 .
t Plath , ' Landw .
Jahrbiicher , ' v. H. Thiel , vol. 16 , hft .
6 , and 'Centralbl .
f. Agri-kulturchem .
v. Biedermann , ' vol. 17 , 1888 .
+ Landolt , ' Deutsch .
Landw .
Press , ' vol. 15 , and 'Centralbl .
f. Agrikulturchem.,5 vol. 17 , 1888 .
S Schlosing and Muntz , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vols .
84 and 85 , 1877 , and vol. 89 , 1879 .
1| Wariugton , ' Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 33 , 1878 , and 'Landw .
Versuchsst .
, ' vol. 24 , 1880 .
IT Soyka , ' Zeitschr .
f. Biologie , ' vol. 14 , 1878 .
** Winogradsky , 'Ann .
de l'Inst .
Past .
, ' vol. 4 , 1890 , and vol. 5 , 1891 ; also 'Archives des 8ci .
biol .
de St. Petersb .
, ' vol. 1 , 1892 .

