The Conductivity of Heat 283 violet , the sensation equation to white was determined .
The other colours of the spectrum were then used in forming white , and from their luminosity equations their percentage composition in sensations were calculated .
The percentage curves are shown .
The results so obtained were applied to various spectrum luminosity curves , and the sensation curves obtained .
The areas of these curves were found , and the ordinates of the green and violet curves increased , so that both their areas were respectively equal to that of the red .
This gave three new curves in which the sensations to form white were shown by equal ordinates .
A comparison of the points in the spectrum where the curves cut one another , and of those found by the red and green blind as matching white , show that the two sets are identical , as they should be .
The curves of Koenig , drawn on the same supposition , are called attention to , and the difference between his and the new determination pointed out .
The red below the red lithium line , as already pointed out , excites but one ( the red ) sensation , whilst the green sensation is felt in greatest purity at A 5140 , and the blue at A 4580 , as at these points they are mixed only with the sensation of white , the white being of that whiteness which is seen outside the colour fields .
" The Conductivity of Heat Insulators .
" By C. G. Lamb , M.A. , B.Sc. , and W. G. Wilson , B.A. Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.B.S. Keceived May 3 , \#151 ; Bead June 15 , 1899 .
The comparative efficiency of materials used as insulators has been the subject of several investigations ; the majority of these have been conducted at fairly high temperatures , and it may be questioned whether the results can be applied to the same materials when used as a lagging to protect bodies at low temperatures .
Moreover the methods adopted do not seem susceptible of any considerable accuracy .
The method to be described was devised with the object of using lower temperatures and smaller ranges than had been used in previous experiments , to attain a perfectly steady state of heat transference , and allow of greater accuracy and simplicity in the measurements .
The substances selected for experiment so far have been those which could easily be tested in the dry state , without being made up into cements ; they include air , sawdust , charcoal , pine shavings , paper , asbestos , sand , silicate cotton , hair felt , rice husks , and a heat insulator known as " kapok .
" The method employed consisted in placing the material under test in the space between two cylindrical copper pots , kept at a definite distance apart by pieces of vulcanised fibre ; the inner pot contained a small Messrs. C. G. Lamb and W. G. Wilson .
motor with a fan attached to the axis ; a tin-plate cylinder , open at the top and with holes at the bottom , was put inside to direct the currents of air over the inner surface of the inside pot , in the direction of the arrows shown in Fig. 1 .
Energy was supplied electrically to a heating Fig. 1 .
o o coil within as well as to the motor : this constituted an internal supply of heat , which maintained the temperature within the pot at any decided upper limit .
The motor and heating coil were connected in series , and leads were carried through a small hole in the lid of the pots to measure the current and potential difference , and thus the The Conductivity of Heat Insulators .
285 power expended on internal heating was measured .
The outer pot was immersed in a tank kept overflowing from the water main , the lid of the pot being made into a sort of saucer , into which the incoming water ran , thus the outer pot 's surface was kept at a uniform and constant temperature .
The resulting temperature differences were measured by means of thermo-electric junctions of copper and iron , in a way shortly to be described .
The current was allowed to pass steadily into the inner pot , driving the motor and fan , until the inner thermoelectric junction arrived at a Steady value ; this usually occurred in about three hours or so ; when this was the case , the supply of energy by the current was just equal to the heat conducted through the insulator and carried off by the water .
Knowing the temperature gradient and the number of watts supplied and the dimensions of the system , we can deduce the specific conductivity of the material .
The general arrangement is shown in Fig. 1 .
( P ) is the outer pot which stood in the tank ; its approximate dimensions were 8 inches in diameter and 16 inches high ; ( Q ) is the inner pot , with one inch clearance between it and the outer one ; outside are shown the voltmeter ( Y ) , ammeter ( A ) , and adjustable resistance ; inside the pot ( Q ) are a fixed resistance ( R ) , the motor ( M ) , and fan ( F ) .
To a point about the middle of each pot , inside the outer , and outside the inner , are soldered the copper-iron junctions B , C , which are brought outside to a three-way plug and a galvanometer , a is a junction placed in a vessel of water at a known temperature ; gis a galvanometer of the Crompton-D'Arsonval pattern .
The junctions used were always made of exactly the same length to keep the total resistance constant , and on calibration were found to give a linear relation between temperature difference .and deflection on the galvanometer within the ranges which were to be used , and during each experiment a check calibration at two known temperatures was made by means of a third junction in water at another known temperature .
When a steady state was attained , the temperatures of B and C above A were measured by the deflections and calibration tests .
The reason for the above indirect method of measuring the difference of temperature between B and C was to avoid possible leakage currents .
The flow of heat per second from the inside pot to the outside one will be given by the expression H = A where is the specific conductivity , 6 is the temperature difference , A is a constant depending on the size of the pots , being the area in square centimetres of two plane surfaces , distant one centimetre apart , that would permit the same flux of heat as the actual arrangement employed under the same conditions of heat transference and temperature gradient .
The value of A was calculated from careful measurements of their dimensions , on the assumption that the flow of heat could be taken as radial for the sides , and from the top and bottom of the inner , to the bottom and top of the outer , pot ; this leads to the expression Messrs. C. G. Lamb and W. G. Wilson .
/ h + r22\ 2 , r ( log .
i ?
+ A-U n for this quantity , where and lt are the lengths , r\ and r2 the radii of the pots .
This gives for X the value 1560 when the lengths ate measured centimetres .
If W denote the rate of supply of energy in watts , the rate of transference of heat in gram-C'-units when the steady state is attained will be H = 0'239 W. Hence , if c is the specific conductivity , and 0 the temperature gradient , H = 1560 ; w therefore c = 0-000153 \#151 ; Two points had to be settled before the determination could be evaluated:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Whether the temperature was uniform over both copper pots ; ( 2 ) whether any part of the temperature gradient was due to a sudden drop at the surface of separation .
As regards the outer pot , since it is wholly surrounded by water , its temperature must be uniform , and the inside and outside can only differ by the drop through the copper , which is eliminated by putting the junction inside that pot ; to test the question as regards the inner pot ( and partly as regards the outer one ) junctions were placed at various points on the surfaces , as well as at certain other points , as shown in Fig. 2 .
The result of this experiment is given below .
J unction .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Temperature relative to 8 25 -6 25 *6 25 -4 25 -2 13 -8 0-6 0*6 0 28*1 It will be seen that the temperature over the surfaces of the pots was practically uniform , and hence the determination of the gradient could be satisfactorily determined from readings taken with one junction on each pot , as at first described .
The second point was tested as follows A third pot was provided , having a clearance of 1 inch with regard to the former larger pot ; under similar conditions as to character of insulator and power supplied the temperature gradients in the case of the two combinations of small and medium , and small and large , pots were measured ; the .
ratio was found to be 054 .
The value of X for the new arrangement of small and large pots was calculated , and found to be 840 in centimetre measure , being thus 0'538 of the standard combination .
The close The Conductivity of Heat Insulators .
287 agreement between these values shows that no appreciable di op occurs at the separating surfaces .
These points being settled , the various substances named above were Fig. 2 .
1 Material .
Tempera- ture differences .
Watts supplied .
Watts per 1 ' C. e. | Air ( no baffles ) 19-2 25 0 1 -30 0 -000200 | Pine sawdust 19 8 31 -7 1-58 0 -000242 ; Pine shavings 19 -5 20-8 1 -06 0-000162 i Brown paper ( crumpled up ) . .
20-2 22-0 1 -09 0-000167 Hair felt ( broken up ) j Hair felt in two sheets , | inch 25 -8 24-5 0-95 0 -000145 thick each 27 2 18-9 0-69 0 -000106 Dry asbestos 14 9 29 *0 1-94 0-000297 Charcoal . .
t# 27-8 27-2 0-98 0 -000150 Sand 8-0 39-0 4-85 0 -000740 Rice husks 14 0 13 7 0-98 0-000150 Kapok ( tight ) 23 -2 21 -8 0*94 0 -000144 Kapok ( loose ) 27 -8 22 3 0-80 0 -000122 !
Silicate cotton 24-7 24-5 0-99 0 '000151 288 On the Orientation of Greek Temples .
placed between the pots , and the watts and temperature gradients were determined in the manner described .
At least two tests of each material were made , the mean temperature throughout being about 40 ' centigrade .
The results are given in the table ( p. 287 ) .
It will be noticed that hair felt was the best insulator that was tested .
The insulation in the case of brown paper was practically that of air with subdivided spaces , a , s the paper occupied relatively a small volume ; a comparison of this with insulation by air only will show how great an improvement in air-lagging such a simple expedient will give .
In repeating the experiments with wider ranges and a higher mean temperature , indications were observed tending to show that the conductivity is a function of the temperature .
It is hoped to continue the investigation as regards this point , and to extend it to other insulators .
" On the Orientation of Greek Temples , being the Results of some Observations taken in Greece and Sicily , in May , 1898 .
" By F. C. Penrose , M.A. , F.RS .
Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The orientation of the Cabeirion Temple , near Thebes , of which the angle has been disputed ( see p. 46 in my paper of 1897 ) , was remeasured with the theodolite in May , 1898 , and the previous observations confirmed .
An additional example is added from an archaic Temple of Neptune in the Isle of Poros , introducing the employment of the bright zodiacal star Regulus , which I had not before met with .
In Sicily the re-examination of the temples at Girgenti , where , in my former visit , I had relied for azimuth on the sun 's shadow and the time , has enabled me to give to the elements some amendments in detail , the only point of consequence being , that the orientation date of the temple named Juno Lacinia is brought within the period of the Hellenic colonisation of that city .
The most interesting point in the paper seems to be , that in the case of two Athenian temples , namely the Theseum and the later Erechtheum\#151 ; i.e. , the temple now partially standing\#151 ; it is shown that the days of those months on which the sunrise , heralded by the star , illuminated the sanctuary , coincided exactly , on certain years of the Metonic cycle , with the days of the Athenian lunar months on which three important festivals known to be connected with at least one of those temples were held .
The years so determined agnSe remarkably well with the probable dates of the dedication of those temples ; and in the case of the first mentioned , the festival .
Which was named The Thesea , seems to leave little doubt that the traditional name of the temple , which has recently been much disputed , is the correct one .

