June 5 , 1845 .
Very Rev. DEAN OF ELY in the Chair .
" Electro-Physiological Researches .
" Memoir First .
By Professor Carlo Matteucci .
Communicated by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. The author describes several arrangements by which he was enabled to make new experiments in confirmation of the laws of muscular currents , of which he has given an account in his recent work , entitled " Traite des Phenomenes Electro -Physiologiques des Animaux .
" He finds that , in these experiments , the employment of a galvanometer is unnecessary , as the sensibility of the electroscopic frog of Galvani gives sufficient indications of the electric current without the use of that instrument .
The general results obtained from these experiments are the following .
In the first place , the intensity and duration of the muscular current is independent of the nature of the gas in which the muscular pile is immersed .
Secondly , it is altogether independent of the cerebro-spinal portion of the nervous system .
Thirdly , the circumstances which exercise a marked influence on its intensity are the conditions of the respiratory and circulatory systems .
Fourthly , those poisons which seem to act directly on the nervous system , such as hydrocyanic acid , morphia and strychnine , have no influence on the nervous current .
Fifthly , sulphuretted hydrogen has a decided influence in diminishing the intensity of the muscular current .
Sixthly , the intensity of this current in frogs varies according to the temperature in which the frogs have been kept for a certain time during life ; a result which , of course , is not obtainable with animals which do not take the temperature of the surrounding medium .
Lastly , the intensity of the muscular current in animals increases in proportion to the rank they occupy in the scale of beings ; and on the other hand , its duration after death is exactly in an inverse ratio to its original intensity .
The author concludes by stating his belief , that the property of the muscles immediately connected with their electric currents , is identical with that which was long ago denominated by Haller irritability , but which is at present more usually designated by the term contractility .
He ascribes the development of this muscular electricity to the chemical actions which are attendant on the process of nutrition of the muscles , and result from the contact of arterial blood with the muscular fibre .
He conceives that in the natural state of the muscle , the two electricities thus evolved neutralise each other at the same points at which they are generated ; while in the muscular pile contrived by the author , a portion of this electricity is put into circulation in the same manner as happens in a pile composed of acid and alkali separated from one another by a simply conducting body .

