]\gt ; The Yietding of the Earth to Forces .
By A. E. H. LovE , edleian Professor of Natural in the University of Oxford .
( Received November 28 , 1908 , \mdash ; Read Januar.y14 , 1909 .
) 1 .
Any estimate of the rigidity of the Earth must be based partly on some obscryations which a deformation of the Earth 's surface can be inferred , .
and partly on some hypothesis as to the internal constitution of the Eartb .
The observations may be concerned with tides of period , variations of the vertical variations of latitude , and so on .
The hypothesis must relate to the arrangement of the matter as ards density in different , and to the state of the parts in respect of solidity , compressibility , and so on .
In the simplest , the one on which Lord Kelvin 's well-known estinlat was based , the Earth is treated as absolutely and of uniform density and rigidity .
This hypothesis was adopted to simplify the problem , not because it is a true one .
No matter is absolutely incomessible , and .
the Earth is not a body of uniform density .
It cannot be held to be probable that it is a body of uniform rigidity .
But when any part of the hypothesis , e.g. , the assumption of uniform density , is discarded , the estimate of rigidity is affected .
Different estimates are obtained when different laws of density are assumed .
, whatever hypothesis we adopt as reg the ement of the matter , so as we consider tlJe Earth to be absolutely incompressible and of uniform rigidity , different estimates of this rigidity are obtained by observations of different phenomena .
Variations of the vertical may one value , variations of latitude a notably different value .
It follows that ' the rigidity of the " " is not a definite physical constant .
But there are two determinate constant numbers related to the methods that have been used for , estimates of the rigidity of the Earth .
One of these numbers specifies the amount by which the surface of the Earth yields to forces of the type of the erenerating attractions of the Sun and Moon .
The other number specifies the amount by which the potential of the Earth is altel.ed through the rearrangement of the matter within it when this matter is displaced by the deforming influence of Sun and Moon .
If we adopt the ordinarily-accepted theory of the Figure of the , the so-called theory of ' fluid equilibrium and if we make the very probable assumption that the physical constants of the For Lord Kelvin 's work on the subject , reference may be made to his ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 3 , or to omson and Tait 's 'Nat .
Phil Part 2 , SS Prof. A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , matter within the Earth , such as the density or the incompressibility , are nearly uniform over any spherical surface having its centre at the Earth 's centre , we can determine both these numbers without introducing any additional hypothesis as to the law of density or the state of the matter .
We shall find , in fact , that observations of variations of latitude lead to a determination of the number related to the inequality of potential , and that , when this number is known , observations of variations of the vertical lead to a determination of the number related to the inequality of added , December 15 , 1908.\mdash ; This statement needs , perhaps , some additional qualification .
It is assumed that , in calculating the two numbers from the two kinds of observations , we may adopt an equilibrium theory of the deformations produced the Earth by the corresponding forces .
If the constitution of the Earth is really such that an equilibrium theory of the effects produced in it by these forces is inadequate , we should expect a marked discordance of phase between the inequality of figure produced and the force it .
Now Hecker 's observations , cited in S6 below , show that , in the case of the semidiurnal term in the variation of the vertical due to the lunar deflexion of gravity , the agreement of phase is close .
If , however , an equilibrium theory is adequate , as it appears to be , for the semidiurnal corporeal tide , a similar must be adequate for the corporeal tides of period and for the variations of latitude .
] 2 .
We take to represent the mean radius of the Earth and to represent the mean density .
In the undisturbed state the Earth will be taken to rotate as if about a principal axis .
We shall denote by the density , pressure , and potential in the undisturbed state .
In the theory of fluid equilibrium is supposed that , for a first approximation , may be taken to be a function of , the distance of a point from the centre .
If , were known , would be known , and then would be determined by the equation and the condition that vanishes at .
In the same theory it is supposed that , for a second approximation , the surfaces of equal density , which are also equipotential surfaces and surfaces of equal pressure , may be regarded as oblate ellipsoids of revolution about the polar axis , the ellipticity of the ellipsoids a function of , which is small for all values of in the .
Thus a surface of equal density , ooriven , to a first approximation , by the equation , is given , to a second approximation , by the equation 1908 .
] The Yielding of the to Disturbing Forces .
where is the colatitude measured from the polar axis .
Then the theory leads to the equation* , ( 1 ) where denotes the value of at ?
denotes the ular velocity of rotation , and denotes the value of gravity at the surface , so that constant .
being denoted by .
Further , if , A denote the moments of inertia of the body about its axis of figure and a perpendicular axis passing through its centre , there is no difficulty in obtaining the equation .
( 2 ) In calculating the constant of precession , we may , with sufficient approximation , take A to be given the formula .
( 3 ) The values of are pretty accurately known by obSeryation .
This outline of the theory is sufficient for our purpose .
We shall not need to take account of those further refinements in which quantities of the order are retailled .
3 .
Now consider the rotating body subjected to deforming forces .
With a view to calculating the deformation we may yard the ects of rotation and consider the undisturbed body as spherical and of density at a poin distant !
from its centre .
Let the forces be derived from a potential which , in the region , is expressible as a sum of spherical solid harmonics of positive integral degrees .
Let be a spherical harmonic term of this sum , degree of this term a positive integer .
Under the action of the forces derived from the potential the body will be deformed .
Let denote the radial component of the displacement , and the cubical dilatation at any point P. The density at in the disturbed state will not be the value of which belongs to the point , but it will be .
( 4 Whatever theory of the constitution of the Earth may be adopted provided that the physical constants , such as density or incompressibility , are *Cf .
J. H. Pratt , Figure of the Earth , ' 1865 edition , p. 79 .
See the note added at the end of S 1 .
Prof. A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , functions of , the quantities and will be products of the spherical solid harmonic and some functions of .
The potential V of the disturbed body at a point will not be but it will be the sum of and the potentials due to : ( i ) a volume distribution of density throughout the region , and ( ii ) a surface distribution of density over the surface .
Hence the potential will differ from by terms which are the products of the spherical solid harmonic and functions of .
In the most important cases , and we may write where , functions of , and constant has been inserted in the expression for for the sake of convenience .
If , in fact , is a periodic term of the tide-generating potential , is the " " true equilibrium \ldquo ; of the corresponding tide , that is to say , it is the height of the harmonic inequality which the forces answering to would produce in an ocean a igid spherical nucleus , of the same size and mass as the Earth , if the depth and density of the ocean were negligible .
From the definition of we easily find the formula .
( 6 ) In what follows we shall write for and for , so that the equation of the disturbed surface is and the disturbance of potential at the surface is .
The numbers referred to above as the inequality of figure and the inequality of potential are the numbers and 4 .
The horizontal pendulum is an instrument for measuring small displacements of the vertical .
The deflexion is proportional to the gravitational attraction in a direction at right angles to the axis of the instrument .
The attraction in question may be regarded as due to the Earth , the Sun , and the Moon .
rfhe axis of the instrument may be taken to , be normal to the disturbed surface .
The forces acting on the pendulum are : ( i ) a force derived from the potential ; ( ii ) a force derived from the potential ; ( iii ) the component of undisturbed gravity tangential to the surface .
If is the disturbing potential due to the Moon alone , the three forces act in the plane containing the Earth 's centre , the Moon 's centre , and the bob of the pendulum .
We calculate the forces in this case , rinning with the force ( iii ) .
We have 1908 .
] The eldang othe to Iorces .
7/ where denotes the Moon 's mass , the distance of the Earth 's centre from the Moon 's centre , the distance of a point from the Earth 's centre , the angle between the radius vector drawn from the Earth 's centre to the point and the radius vector drawn from the Earth 's centre to the Moon 's centre .
The surface is approximately an ellipsoid of revolution , and its eccentricity is given , correctly to the first order , by the equation The angle between the central radius vector and the normal at any point of the ellipsoid is , to the first order , .
Hence the component of gravity tangential to the surface is , to the first order , , or sense of this force is that in which increases .
The nitudes of the other forces can be written down ; and the resultant force acting at angles to the axis of the instrument is .
( 7 ) If the Earth were absolutely rigid , the force would be .
Hence the ratio of the observed deflexion of the pendulum to that which would occur if the Earth were absolutely rigid is This result*has been obtained by arding W as the Moon 's tidepotential , but it is clear that the same expression would be arrived at if were any term of the tide-generating potential due to the action of both Sun and Moon , for the nbers h and are the same for all potentials expressed by spherical solid harmonics of the second degree .
1 An approximate expression for the of any oceanic tide which follows the equilibrium law may be calculated by ' the depth and density of the ocean .
Let be a term of the potential .
Then the corresponding inequality of the surface of the ocean , calculated in the way described , is , and the inequality of the nucleus is .
Thus the height of the corresponding is ated as *An equivalent result for an incompressible sphere with a special of density is given W. Schweydar , ' sir Geophysik , ' vol. 9 , , p. 41 , but his argument , in one place , so briefly expressed that I lind it difficult to follow .
This result is , of course , well known .
Prof A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , , and the ratio of the actual height to the true equilibrium height is .
Apart , therefore , from a correction depending on the depth of the ocean , the self-attraction of the waters , and the pressure of the tidal wave upon nucleus , the quantity which is measured by means of observations of the long period tides is the as that which is measured by means of the horizontal pendulum .
It is , therefore , not surprising that estimates of the idity of the Earth which are based on observations of the fortnightly tide are nearly the same as those which are based on observations of the variations of the vertical .
6 .
Lord estimate was based chiefly on observations of the fortnightly tide in the Indian Ocean , from which observations it was inferred that ( 8 ) very nearly .
This result has been confirmed by W. Schweydar , an analysis of much more numerous observations of fortnightly tides , and also by an analysis of several sets of observations made with horizontal pendulums .
But the most st1iking confirmation is to be found in the investigations of O. Hecker , conducted by means of horizontal pendulums .
His very precise and consistent results show that the equation ( 8 ) is remarkably exact .
7 .
An vsis of many series of observations of variations of latitude led S. C. Chandler to the conclusion that such motions are periodic with a period of about 427 days .
If the Earth were an absolutely body , the figure of an oblate ellipsoid of revolution , with ellipticity equal to that found by geodetic observations , and having that ratio of moments of inertia about polar and equatorial axes which is deduced from the observed amount of precession , it would execute a free oscillation about the steady motion of rotation in a period of about 306 days , and the variations of latitude would have this period .
The thening of the period from 306 days to 427 days is due to the defect of tTidity .
The result that a yielding of the Earth would then the period was obtained by S. Newcomb , S and the period was ated theoretically by S. S. Hough The theory has been placed in a very clear light by G. 8 .
We take the undisturbed axis of figure as axis of , and choose axes of and in the equatorial plane .
Let denote the cosines of the angles which the instantaneous axis of the Earth 's rotation makes with the axes of .
cit. " " Beobachtungen an Horizontalpendeln Veroffentlichung .
Preuss .
geodatischen Institutes , ' No. 22 , Berlin , 1907 .
'Astronomical Journal , ' , 12 , 16 , 19 , 21 , 22 ( 1891\mdash ; 1902 ) .
S 'Mon .
Not .
R. Astr .
Soc 1892 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 187 , 1896 .
Zeitschr . .
Math. .
Phys vol. 52 , 1906 , p. 275 .
and .
The yielding of the Earth may be computed as the yielding of a sphere to forces derived from a potential , where .
( 9 ) It is , therefore , expressed by a radial displacement and a dilatation where This displacement of the matter is to be superposed upon the inequality due to uniform rotation about the axis of .
The moments and products of inertia of the deformed rotating body with respect to the axes of can be calculated .
The angular velocity of the frame of moving axes of has components referred to their instantaneous positions .
The equations of motion of the body with the calculated moments and products of inertia referred to the moving axes can be formed by the ordinary methods of dynamics , and the period of free nutation can be deduced .
This is ' method , generalised by the inclusion of the effect of compressibility .
9 .
It is found that , to the first order , the moments of inertia , are unaltered , but that small products of inertia are introduced .
The values of these products are iven , correctly to the first order , by the equations ; ( 10 ) where the integrations in the left-hand members are taken through mass of the disturbed body .
By means of the result ( 2 ) we obtain the products of inertia in the , ( 11 ) where .
( 12 ) The period of free nutation is given by the equation * The formula ( 11 ) and ( 13 ) , and a formula equivalent to ( 12 ) in the case of incompressibility , were given by Herglotz ( loc. cit The constant is equivalent , in this case , to the constant which he denotes by .
The result expressed by ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) agrees with that obtained by Hough if the initial density is uniform and the matter incompressible .
Prof. A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , If the Earth were absolutely rigid the period would be , ( 14 ) so that the period is lengthened by the yielding in the ratio 1 : Now if we introduce the results ( 1 ) and ( 6 ) , we find .
( 15 ) It appears , therefore , that the constant is determined .
10 .
The denoted by is known from the constant of precession to be about 306 days ; the period denoted by is known from observations of variations of latitude to be about 427 days .
The value of is about , and the value of is about .
Hence we find nearly .
( 16 ) Since nearly , and nearly , we find nearly .
( 17 ) These results may be expressed as follows : inequality produced in the potential of the Earth , near its surface , by the action of the Sun and Moon , is about four-fifteenths of the tide-generating potential , and the inequality produced in the surface of the Earth is about three-fifths of the true equilibrium height of the tide .
The results hold for each of the partial tides answering to the seyeral periodic terms of the tide-generating potential .
11 .
If the matter within the Earth is assumed to be absolutely incom- pressible and of uniform density , we should have .
If , further , it is assumed to be of uniform rigidity , the theory of the deformation of an elastic sphere would give the result ( 18 ) But actual relation , obtained from the tides and the variations of the vertical , then gives , or .
Since nearly in C.G.S. units , we have nearly .
Thus the rigidity calculated by this method is about the rigidity of steel ( Kelvin 's estimate ) .
If , instead of using the result , we use the value for , we find from ( 18 ) the value , or about .
The approximate agreement of this estimate of rigidity with that which has been deduced from the rate of transmission of the second phase of earthquake waves to great distances should not , I think , be regarded as of much importance .
12 .
One way of deducing an estimate of rigidity from observations of he Of orces .
variations of latitude combined with the hypotheses of absolute incomand uniform density and rigidity is to give to equation ( 15 ) actual values , so that nearly .
This method gives nearly , and then , by equation ( 18 ) , we find nearly .
A second way is to give to and their actual values , and to the value , which it would have , according to the theory of fluid equilibrium , if the matter were homogeneous .
This method* gives and nearly .
A third way is to give to and their actual .
values , and to and the values which , according to the theory of fluid equilibrium and the theory of precession , they would have if the matter ere ] .
We should then find and .
In view of these results the approximate reement of 's result with Kelvin 's estimate does not seem to have much importance . .
In order to obtain an estimate of the idity of the Earth from observations of variations of latitude , it seems to be necessary to combine the observations with some which will adnit of the ellipticity and the constant of precession , their actual values .
One of the simplest admissible constitutions is that which has been proposed by E. Wiechert .
He takes the Earth to consist of a solid nucleus of density enclosed in a solid shell of density , the ratio of the radius of the nucleus to the outer radius of the shell being .
If we make the further assumptions that there is no slipping at the interface between nucleus and shell , and that the matter is absolutely incompressible and of uniform rigidity , we can calculate the numbers and in terms of the rigidity .
If ; then , the rigidity is adjusted so that the period of free nutation may be 427 days , there results nearly .
If , however , the rigidity is .
adjusted so that the displacement of a horizontal pendulum by tideenerating forces may be two-thirds of what it would be if the Earth were absolutely , there results nearly .
The first of these results was obtained by by transforming the equations of elastic equilibrium for a body of variable density , and solving the transformed equations .
The second result was obtained by Schweydar using some * It in effect , the method adopted by Hough ( loc. ) .
This statement is not meant to suggest any doubt as to Kelvin 's general conclusion that the Earth , as a whole , is a very rigid body .
All the astronomical evidence confirms .
this conclusion .
Kelvin 's rather precise numerical estimate of rigidity , as or 8 times dynes per square centimetre , appears to be rather well by Hough 's estimate of about 9 times the same .
Hough described his estimate as founded upon a " " reasonable hypothesis Two other reasonable hypotheses lead to and 17 , where Hough 's leads to 9 .
These numbers confirm the general conclusion , not the numerical estimate .
Gottingen Nacbrichten , ' 1897 .
VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. Prof A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , analysis due to Chree .
By an extension of the analysis which was applied to such problems by Kelvin , I have found the values and .
The discrepancy between the two estimates of idity , deduced respectively from the period of free nutation and the displacement of horizontal pendulums , shows , as we should expect , that the assumption of uniform rigidity is untenable .
Schweydar has proposed to assume that there is one uniform rigidity for the nucleus and another for the shell , and finds that the results of the two kinds of observations can be reconciled by taking\mdash ; for the nucleus for the shell The values which I have found are and .
The slight between my results and those of Herglotz and Schweydar due to slight differences in the assumed data .
The general conclusion , that the rigidity of the nucleus may be much greater than that of ordinary materials at the surface , and the idity of the shell smaller than that of most rocks , is more important than the numerical values .
14 .
The results } have just been described may be taken as indicating the effect of heterogeneity on the estimate of rigidity .
It appears that increase of density towards the centre compensates to some extent for defect of rigidity , and that increase of rigidity towards the centre can compensate for a considerable defect of idity in the superficial portions .
The effect of compressibility is not known , it seems improbable that the yielding of a compressible sphere with an assigned rigidity should be less than that of an incompressible one .
The result that the rigidity of Wiechert 's shell may be less than that of most surface rocks led Schweydar to adopt Wiechert 's suggestion that there may exist a plastic sheet between the nucleus and the shell .
I think it may be regarded as certain that there is not within a of 1400 km .
a continuous layer of molten matter , separating the inner portions of the Earth 's body from the outer portions , and behaving as a fluid in respect of forces of the } of tide-generating forces .
In order that the astronomical motions may be performed as we know they are , and that the surface not yield to such forces more than we know it does , the portions of the Earth which are outside such a sheet , if it exists , must be ' Cambridge PhiL Soc. Trans , 1889 .
rigidities of many kinds of granite and marble lie between and C.G.S. units .
See the memoir by F. D. Adams and E. G. Coker , 'Publications of the Carnegie Institution , ' No. 46 .
My attempt to determine this effect in ' Cambridge Phil. Soc. Trans vol. 16 , 1900 , does not now appear to me to be satisfactory .
1908 .
] The Yielding of the to Disturbing Forces .
much more we can reasonably conceive them to be .
No amount of rigidity of the nucleus would enable us to satisfy the conditions .
To illustrate this statement quantitatively it will be to set down some of the analysis of the problem .
15 .
We consider a sphere of matter stratified in concentric spherical layers .
The matter in any layer is taken to be of uniform density and rigidity , these quantities from layer to layer , and it is taken to be absolutely incompressible .
If we discard the assumption of inCOItlpressibility , the problem becomes much more difficult .
We suppose the sphere to be deformed by body forces derived from a potential , which is a spherical solid harmonic of the .
The initial pressure and potential in ] become and , where is the potential due to the inequalities at the disturbed boundaries of all the layers .
Let denote the displacement at any point within a layer .
The equations of equilibrium are three equations of the type , ( 19 ) and , since the undisturbed state is one of equilibriuul , we can replace these by equations of the type .
( 20 ) have the condition of incompressibility .
1 ) To solve these equations , we put , ( 22 ) where is an inteo.ero , positive or ative , and are to be derived from by replacing successively by and , and successively by and ; also are spherical solid harmonics of the degree , and is a spherical solid harmonic of the defined by the equation .
( 23 ) The summation refers to all the values of that need be taken .
16 .
With a view to the expression of the radial displacement and the components of traction across a spherical surface , it is conyenient to introduce a spherical solid harmonic of the degree defined by the equation .
( 24 ) Prof. A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , Then we find .
( 25 ) The value of at can be expressed by means of ( 25 ) as a sum of spherical surface harmonics of positive degrees , say .
We shall write for the corresponding sum of spherical solid harmonics of positive degrees , so that .
If is a boundary of a layer in the undisturbed state , and are the densities just inside and just outside this surface , the contribution of this boundary to the inequality of potential is or , ( 26 ) according as the point at which is estimated is within or without the surface .
The value of is the sum of such contributions from all the bounding surfaces .
The -component of traction across the surface is the value at of the expression or .
( 27 ) The radial component of the traction is the value at of the expression .
( 28 ) The tangential traction across the surface is a vector quantity which has a definite magnitude and direction at each point of surface , the direction being at right angles to the central radius vector .
We may resolve this vector into components parallel to the axes .
The component parallel to the axis of is obtained by subtracting the -component of the radial traction from the -component of the resultant traction .
We find that the -component of the tangential traction is the value at of the expression .
( 29 ) 1908 .
] The Yielding of the to Forces .
17 .
The conditions to be satisfied at a disturbed boundary of a layer are conditions of continuity of displacement and traction .
Except in the case of the normal traction , it is sufficient to form the conditions at the undisturbed boundary .
Let letters with single accents denote the values of quantities such as and just inside a boundary , and letters with double accents denote the values of the corresponding quantities outside the boundary .
The condition of continuity of the -component of disis ( 30 ) where we have picked out all the terms which contain spherical surface harmonics of the same degree .
We may now as positive .
The spherical solid harmonic of the degree , ' vanishes at the spherical surface , and therefore vanishes for all finite values of .
We have two other like expressions which vanish in virtue of the conditions of continuity of the y ?
- and -components of displacement .
Hence , by the usual method , we deduce the two equations same with doubly accented and letters , ( 31 ) same with doubly accented letters .
( 32 ) The condition of continuity of the -component of traction is same with doubly accented letters .
( 33 ) Prof. A. E. H. Love .
[ Nov. 28 , From the three equations ( two independent ) of this type we obtain in the usual way equation - same with doubly accented letters .
( 34 ) In forming the condition of continuity of normal traction at a disturbed boundary , we may calculate all the terms that arise from the additional stress as if the boundary were the sphere The only terms in which we need take account of the displacement of the boundary are those that arise from the initial stress .
The initial stress being hydrostatic pressure , the corresponding normal component of traction across any surface at a point is the pressure at that point with its sign changed .
The initial pressure at a point on the surface is expressible as the value of at a point on the surface .
When is a boundary of a layer , is continuous in crossing the boundary , but is not , for its value is , and is discontinuous .
Hence the condition of continuity of normal traction at the surface is - same with doubly accented letters .
It is convenient to eliminate and by means of the equation ( 34 ) .
We thus obtain the equation same with doubly accented lettel'S .
( 35 ) It is clear from these equations that in general the ] functions of type which occur are , and the only functions of type which occur are and the corresponding 's and .
In the central portion of the sphere the only functions which occur are those of 1908 .
] The eldvnq oto orces .
the types .
All these can be expressed in terms of byolvi ( linear equations .
It appears that and are multiples of the surface harmonic I obtained the results stated in S13 above by .
the above analysis to the case of a central spherical nucleus and an shell with Wiechert 's values for the densities and radii .
18 .
We prcceed to the example of an absolutely rigid nucleus , of density and , separated by a layer of fluid* of density from a solid shell of density , rigidity , and inner and outer radii and , the whole subjected to body force derived from a potential , which is a spherical solid harmonic of the second .
Let denote the spherical solid harmonics of the second degree to which the radial displacement becomes equal at tho surfaces respectively .
Then at any point in the solid shell we haVe ( 36 ) and .
( 37 ) The displacement at any point in the solid shell is expressed in terms of the functions .
Equation ( 25 ) gives ( 38 ) The traction vanishes at and at , and hence we the ( 39 ) The condition of continuity of normal traction at is obtained from equation in the form In regard to the question of the cy of the statical theory to determine the behaviour of the supposed fluid layer , reference may be made to the Note at the end of S :88 The Yietding of the Earth to Disturbing Forces .
and the condition that the normal traction at vanishes is obtained in the same way in the form .
( 41 ) 19 .
It is sufficient to consider the case in which , or ) density of the fluid layer is the same as that of the solid enclosing shell .
Writing for the value of gravity at the surface and for the mean density , so that and putting ( 42 ) we find that the value of is given by the equation .
( 43 ) 20 .
Suppose the fluid layer to be thin , and consider the case where the density is distributed to Wiechert 's law .
We have then that nearly , and adjusting so that may have its actual value , we find nearly .
It appears , therefore , , even if the solid nucleus were osolutely , and the enclosing shell were 1400 km .
thick , the presence of a layer of fluid separating the nucleus from the shell would increase very much the yielding of the surface .
To prevent the surface from yielding more than it actually does , the rigidity of the shell would have to be nearly five times that of steel .
If the enclosing shell were thinner , a still higher rigidity would be needed .
For example , if it were 64 km .
thick , and of density half the mean density , or about , the requisite rigidity of the enclosing shell , the nucleus being absolutely rigid and the fluid layer thin , would be about dynes per square centimetre , or about sixty-six times the rigidity of steel .
These numbers seem to me to be decisive against the hypothesis of the fluid layer .
This conclusion does not negative the possible existence of areas of continental dimensions beneath which there may be molten matter .
It means that such areas must be isolated ; the molten matter beneath them can form a continuous sheet separating a central body from an enclosing crust .
The conclusion does not negative the possible existence of a layer of comparatively small rigidity ; but , if there is such a layer , it must be rigid enough to prevent a finite slipping of the enclosing crust over the central body .

