221 1894 .
] Measurement of Colour produced by Contrast .
Figs. 1 and 2 are summarised in the annexed table , which shows for each nature of explosive the advantage in velocity and energy to be gained by correspondingly lengthening the gun .
Fig. 3 is an interesting illustration of a point to which I have elsewhere adverted .
Cordite and ballistite leave no deposit in the bore .
Round 1 with R.L.G. was fired with a clean bore .
The difference in velocity between round 1 with a clean bore and rounds 2 and 3 with powder deposit in the chase is very clearly marked , and it will be noted that in this instance the effect of the foul bore is only distinctly shown when the length exceeds 40 calibres .
From 40 calibres onwrards the loss of velocity due to a bore encrusted with deposit is very distinctly shown .
II .
" Measurement of Colour produced by Contrast .
By Captain W. de W. Abney .
C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1894 .
No definite measurements , as far as I am aware , have been made of the change in colour produced by contrast , except in a small work of my own in which results were given in terms of colour mixtures , and earlier by a brief reference in a work by Rood , in which the change produced was endeavoured to be matched by means of rotating disks .
The method of registering any colour in terms of some definite wave-length of light , together with white light ( see 4 Proceedings Royal Society , ' vol. 49 ) renders the registration of any colour readily effected , and by applying it to the contrast colours , very fair results have been obtained , which cannot be very far from the truth .
It is usually stated that the contrast colour produced on a white surface by an adjacent colour is the complementary colour , of course largely diluted with wdiite light .
I should like to point out that in the first place we have to know what a complementary colour is , and in the second what the added white light may be .
As a matter of fact the kind of white light employed has to be defined before it can he stated what the complementary to any colour may be .
11 , for instance , we wish to define what the complementary of orange maybe , we must know what is the nature of the white light before we can give the complementary .
Suppose we take the white of daylight , or of the electric light , we know that to make a white of this character we must add a certain quantity of blue of a certain wave length to the orange .
When it is produced under these circumstances , the blue is the complementary to the orange .
Suppose , however , we wish to know the complementary to the orange , in what is called the wrhite light of the amyl acetate lamp , or of a candle , we are at once met by a difficulty .
222 Capt. " W. de W. Abney .
[ June 21 , The colour of the light of these two sources , can , as far as the eye can distinguish , be very closely matched\#151 ; if not exactly\#151 ; by an orange ray in the spectrum .
Evidently then in such a case there can he no complementary to this ray .
We know as a matter of observation that these lights do contain a certain quantity of rays of the higher refrangibility , but so small proportionally to that found in daylight that it is negligible .
Again , we may take a light , such as the oxy-hydrogen light , and may match its whiteness by placing in the electric light spectrum three slits , one in the red , another in the green , and another in the blue , mixing the three rays , and altering the apertures of the slits as required .
The complementary of the red for the oxyhydrogen white light will be obtained by shutting off the red ray , leaving the mixture of the green and blue rays .
Keeping the slits in the same position in the spectrum , a match may next be made with the white light of the electric ( arc ) light .
The complementary of the red may again be found as before , when it will be found that the mixture of green and blue forming it will be bluer than in the case of the oxyhydrogen light .
From the above it will be seen that no complementary colours can be definitely stated unless the quality of the white light be known .
Sunlight and daylight being always yellower , at sea level , the lower the altitude of the sun , it follows that any attempt to fix accurately the wave-length of the complementary for daylight to any ray of the spectrum must be exceedingly difficult .
Wave-lengths of comple-mentaries are given , however , in various text-books , but without any statement as to the quality of the white light to which they refer .
It follows that if we do know the complementary colour , then the white light which has to be added to it in order to match the contrast colour must refer to the same white to which the complementary is referred .
In the experiments which were undertaken as to the true colour produced by contrast the light employed was that which I have always used in colour experiments , viz. , that emitted by the crater on the positive pole of the electric light\#151 ; a light which is unchangeable , and which can be relied upon as always being of the same quality , the relative luminosities of the different parts of its spectrum being fixed .
Two complete sets of apparatus for producing colour patches as described in the Addendum in " Colour Photometry , " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1886 ) were provided each with its electric light .
Each colour patch was thrown on the whitened surface of a cube ( No. II ) of 1^-inch side placed 12 inches apart from one another .
With No , II instrument the colour contrast was formed between white and a diluted spectrum colour , the colour emerging through a slit placed in the spectrum and forming a patch on the cube , and the white being that reflected from the first surface of the prism , and re-reflected by a silvered mirror , a magnified image being thrown , by means of a 1894 .
] Measurement of Colour produced by Contrast .
lens , also on the cube .
A thin rod -f inch diameter placed in the paths of the two beams caused two shadows to be cast on the cube , one illuminated by pure white light and the other by the spectrum colour .
These were separated from one another by an interval illuminated by a mixture of the spectral colour and white light , and on each side of the shadows the same diluted colour was to be found .
The appearance of the side of the cube was as below .
Fxo .
1 .
A B A was a stripe of white light , B of colour , c of the same colour diluted with white .
The intensity of the D sodium light thrown on the surface was O'5 of an amyl acetate lamp at 1 foot , the intensity of the other colours can be obtained from the luminosity curve in the ' Phil. Trans. , ' " Colour Photometry , " Part III , 1892 .
The patch of colour from instrument No. I was thrown on the face of a cube ( No. II ) 1 foot away from the first cube , and was used to match the contrast colour produced on A , fig 1 .
The beam of white light also fell on the same face of the cube , and the intensities of each could be altered at will , that of the colour by opening or closing the slit through which the colour came , and that of the white light by rotating sectors .
By this means any dilution of colour could be secured .
It may -be mentioned that the effect of using a strip of the face of the cube equal in width to the width of A was tried , but no advantage was found by so doing .
The method of procedure was as follows : With instrument No. II the colour to be used and the white beam were thrown on the face of the cube No. II .
The luminosities of the two were made as nearly equal as possible .
With instrument No. I a colour , which it was judged was nearly the dominant colour of the contrast colour on A , was thrown on the face of the cube No. I and white light added .
When it was found that a match was perfected by slight changes in the colour and in the intensity of the added white , the scale No. of the colour was read , from which the wave-length would be determined , and the relative luminosities of the white and the colour measured directly .
The aperture of the slit 224 Capt. W. de W. Abney .
[ June 21 , used in making the match being known the dilution of the colour would be determined readily .
It was found that a slight change in the contrast took place after repeatedly shifting the eyes from the one cube to the other .
For instance , the contrast caused by green appeared to lose a little of its red hue , degenerating into a brown-yellow .
To avoid this , an artifice was employed , which appears to be completely successful .
An ordinary box stereoscope , with the lenses removed , was mounted on a stand , and in such a position that when the left eye only saw cube No. II , the right eye saw but No. I cube .
Thus , the right eye never Saw the contrast colour , whilst the left never saw the match .
In this way , by alternately changing the direction of the eyes to the two cubes , a match could be readily made .
When the match was considered satisfactory , the eyes were directed to a moderately weak white light , and , after a short interval of time , turned to the two Cubes , when , if the contrast colour on the one cube and the mixed colours on the other appeared to match accurately , the necessary readings were taken .
Fio .
2 .
A c c Subsequently it was found more convenient to move the rod placed in the paths of the two beams of the instrument No. II , so that only one shadow appeared , as in fig. 2 .
In fig. 2 the stripe of white light , A , is shown .
It is obvious that the stripe of colour could be equally well isolated .
There is no difference in the contrast colours created in the white by this plan , so that only one table of results need be given .
It will be seen from the table1 that different and representative parts of the spectrum were used , being the red , yellow , green , blue , and violet , and that in every case the contrast colours provoked in the white could be matched by a single colour of definite wavelength when diluted by white light .
If the contrast colour caused by the green were its complementary diluted by white light , it should be by a purple , which requires a mixture of red and blue , whereas it is an orange .
The fact as to whether the contrast colour 1894.1 Measurement of Colour produced bp Contrast .
Table I.\#151 ; Diluted Background .
Colour contrasted with white .
Colours produced by contrast .
Wave-length of colour .
Luminosity in Dominant wave- Proportion of terms of amyl length of white to colour .
acetate lamp .
contrast colour .
White = 1 .
672 015 483 0-054 636 0*22 484 0-057 612 0*44 485 0-066 598 0*46 487 0 070 585 0 50 489 o-ioo 569 0-49 671 0-120 558 0-44 610 0165 541 0 33 598 0-165 517 013 592 0 170 499 0-07 587 0175 481 0-023 585 0-200 466 0-012 583 0-250 All violet .
581 0-300 as matched could ever make white when mixed with the colour which caused it was very readily proved .
The two colours were thrown on the same cube , and the proportions of the colours altered .
In some few cases there was a very close approximation to the formation of a white which matched the electric light , but in the majority no match could be made .
Another set of experiments further exemplified this .
In instrument No. II three colours were chosen\#151 ; one in the red , another in the green , and the third in the violet .
The same three colours were found in instrument No. I , and three adjustable ones placed in them .
With these three slits a match was made with the white of the electric light in the first instance\#151 ; a contrast between white and the red was then formed on the cube , illuminated by No. II instrument .
The red was then shut off from instrument No. I , and the mixed violet and green lights were diluted with white light , but in no state of dilution did the white stripe as coloured by contrast appear of the same tint as the complementary colour of the red as obtained from the dilated mixture .
The same negative results were obfained by making the contrast with the green .
With the violet a much nearer approach was made .
This experiment was varied by matching the light from an Argand gas burner , and by forming the contrasts by means of the same quality of light .
The same negative results were again obtained .
The difference , if any , was next observed between a contrast made by a saturated colour and that given by the dilated colour .
VOL. LVI .
Q 226 Capt. W. de W. Abney .
[ June 21 , In order to get a stripe of white enclosed between two saturated stripes of colour a Vernon Harcourt screen was employed instead of a rod .
The principle of this may not be known generally , so a brief description of it may be necessary .
It consists of a rectangular metallic sheet of about two inches wide , in which two broad slits are cut and separated from each other by the width of the slits .
This sheet , if placed in the path of the beam allows two stripes of colour and of white to pass .
By carefully adjusting the position of this screen a stripe of white may be enclosed between two stripes of colour .
The results are given in Table II .
Table II.\#151 ; Saturated Background .
Colour contrasted with white .
j Colour produced by contrast .
Wave-length of colour .
Luminosity in Dominant wave- Proportion of terms of amyl length of white to colour .
acetate lamp .
contrast colour .
White = 1 .
672 0*15 481 0-015 636 0*22 485 0-020 612 0-44 486 0-022 598 0*46 487 0-024 585 0*50 491 0-025 569 0*49 671 0-035 558 0*44 611 0-052 541 0*33 598 0-066 517 0*13 590 0-066 499 0 *07 .
585 0 -066 481 0 *0 '3 583 0-068 466 0*012 582 0-070 All violet .
580 0-070 The contrasts with gas light , using the same light to dilute a spectrum colour in instrument No , 1 , were also measured , and these are given in Table III .
Table III.\#151 ; Contrasts in Gaslight .
Wave-length of colour .
Dominant wavelength of contrast .
636 485 585 590 558 598 499 592 465 589 All violet .
588 1894 .
] Measurement of Colour produced by Contrast .
There are such small differences in the wave-lengths of the contrasts produced by the diluted and saturated colours that it may be presumed they are due to error of observation , although each table is dei'ived from the mean of several observations extending over a period of three years .
It may be interesting to state that in every case the extremes in the one series embraced the mean value tabulated in the other series , and that in no case did the mean differ from any single observation more than \ 2'5 .
There is , however , a very simple means of noting the accordance between the contrasts caused by the diluted and saturated colours .
With one instrument the contrast caused by the saturated colour was shown on one surface , and with the other that by the same colour , but diluted , on another surface , so that the two could be directly compared .
To the eye the only difference between the two was in the amount of dilution of the colour produced by contrast ; otherwise they appeared absolutely identical .
An endeavour was made to ascertain at the same time what dark interval between the white and the colours would prevent the contrast being appreciable .
To do this a cube with a whitened surface was placed as shown on the top of another white surface with a black interval between the two ( tig .
3 ) .
The colour patch was thrown so as to fall only on the cube whilst the white beam illuminated the white surface a as well .
When the white beam was also thrown on another cube a foot away it was practicable to form an idea of the colour of " a. " The effect was curious and interesting .
When the black band b was just ^ inch in depth , whilst the -white stripe A appeared strongly , coloured , a appeared very nearly white , and if by an artifice saturated colour surrounded A it was pure white .
If black intervals were placed on each side of A. the colour in A did not disappear , but appeared to be more diluted , probably owing to contrast in the white caused by black , but the colour still remained .
If , however , a black interval was on one side of A ( that is by placing the shadow against the edge Q 2 228 Measurement of Colour produced by Contrast .
[ June 21 , of the square and making the black interval between the colour and A ) , when the colour was saturated white appeared perfectly white , whilst if dilute just a shade of contrast colour was visible .
By placing a diluted coloured space in contact with a pure white space which was in its turn in contact with a saturated colour , it became possible with several colours to make the diluted colour appear white in contrast to the contrast colour itself .
With red this became impracticable , and for a reason which will be apparent in a paper which I propose shortly to communicate .
In this paper it is not intended to include the changes made in undiluted colours by contrast with white or other undiluted colours , or between colour mixtures .
It may , however , be said that except for the red and the violet there is a tendency for the two colours to become more widely separated in the spectrum .
Thus with red and yellow the red remains of the same hue , but appears slightly more saturated , whilst the yellow appears greener .
This would necessarily follow from the contrast colours produced on a white stripe by saturated colours .
The reasoning given to explain contrast colours on the Tongue theory , or on that of Hearing seems insufficient , and very hypothetical .
I would , however , call attention to a curious phenomenon which General Besting and myself described incidentally in " Colour Photometry , Part III .
" When getting the final extraction of colour from a red ray by a direct comparison with very faint white it was found that when apparently both appeared of the same grey hue , if the white light were increased in intensity , the colour of the red immediately appeared , and it was only after making a comparison for colour with the stronger white that the red colour truly appeared to be colourless .
In this then evidently the part of the retina on which the red colour was received was stimulated by the white adjacent to it and to such an extent that the supposed extinguished colour reappeared .
Presumably then whilst the retina is excited b'r diluted colour , the part on which the pure white may fall may also be excited by it , and not necessarily by the exact complementary colour , since the eye is more sensitive to some colours than to others .
Whatever view may be taken of this hypothesis , must not , however , be allowed to detract from the results of the experiments , which are facts\#151 ; recorded and observed with all possible care\#151 ; and after due precautions were taken to avoid error .

