448 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
Physical Characters of the [ Apr. 16 , III .
" On the Physical Characters of the Lines in the Spark Spectra of the Elements .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received March 18 , 1891 .
The properties of the atoms are a periodic function of their masses , and the physical characteristics of the spectra of the elements appear to be an expression of the properties of the atoms ; for there is undoubtedly an intimate connexion between the rays emitted by the self-luminous vapours of the elements and their chemical and physical properties .
If we photograph the spark spectra of thirty or forty of the elements and arrange the spectra in groups following the periodic law , the arrangement will be seen to be a perfectly natural one .
This observation applies not only to the groupings of the lines , but also to the physical characteristics of the individual lines .
In spark spectra , the three most striking characteristics are ( 1 ) an extension of certain lines above and below that part of the spectrum bounded by the points of the two electrodes ; ( 2 ) the nimbus which surrounds the extremities of the lines , even to some extent those portions which form an extension ; and ( 3 ) the continuous spectrum which forms the background to the lines .
( 1 .
) On the Extension of the Lines.\#151 ; The spark discharge , as shown by Perrot , is composed of two parts , of which the fiery track , or central portion , is a statical discharge , and the aureole , or flame , is dynamical , and capable of electrolytic action .
Prom careful observation of the sparks , and photographs of spectra , I have come to regard all those spectra with lines extended as spectra of different discharges taken simultaneously .
The principal lines lying between point and point of the electrodes are spectra of the fiery path of the spark ; the extension of the principal lines above and below the points of the electrode appear to be spectra of the aureole .
The principal observation which leads to this conclusion is that the electrodes are seen to glow silently and continuously above and below the points of the upper and lower electrodes , and frequently slight roughnesses present the appearance of brightly but steadily shining dots ; particularly is this the case with those metals which exhibit the most extended lines , as for instance , cadmium , thallium , and indium .
The lines in many spectra are free from this extension , and no glow is observed on the electrodes .
A study of about thirty different spectra of the metals and semi-metallic substances has led to the following observation .
Elements which are difficult to volatand those which are bad conductors of electricity , do not exhibit spectra with extended lines ; and , con* 1891 .
] Lines in the Spark Spectra of the Elements .
449 versely , metals which are the best conductors and the most volatile exhibit spectra with their principal lines largely extended .
The following metals are good conductors , that is to say , sufficiently good not to impede the spark when broad electrodes are used , and they are more or less volatile .
They show a large extension of their principal lines :\#151 ; jT Boiling point .
Atomic mass .
Volatility .
Atomic mass . !
Magnesium . .
1100 ' c. 24*4 Aluminium. .
Not volatilised by 27 *08 ordinary means .
113*7 I Zinc \#166 ; . . .
11 - 924 ' to 65 *3 Indium Volatilised at a 954 ' C. red heat .
| Cadmium ... 763 ' to 112*1 Thallium . . . .
Easily volatilised 204*2 1 772 ' 0 .
at a red heat .
Atomic mass .
Copper ... ... Not volatilised by ordinary means. .
6338 Silver ... ... . .
Boils about 1570 ' C ... ... ... ... ... .
107 93 Mercury ... ... .
" 357 ' C ... ... ... ... ... .
200T In these examples the extension of the lines is least in the case of the least volatile metals , which are also those of least atomic mass , and it is greatest with those which are most volatile and of greatest atomic mass .
The continuous spectrum in these examples is very weak , and the air lines are almost absent from the thallium and mercury spectra , the air spectra being suppressed by the excess of dense vapour in the track of the spai'k .
The lines most extended are the following:\#151 ; Jn .
, - _ * 'i the cadmium spectrum , those with wave-lengths 361T8 , 3609*6 \#171 ; * ' \gt ; ----------*-----**\gt ; ... .
{ apair ) , 3466 8 , 3465*4 ( a , pair ) .
These pairs appear as single lines if the dispersion is insufficient and the definition imperfect .
The most refrangible line of each pair is the more extended .
The other lines in this spectrum are 3402*9 , 2747*7 , 2572*2 , 2313*6 , and 2265*9 , all with fine extensions .
In the spectrum of thallium , wavelengths 3775*6 , 3528*8 , 3518*6 , and 2917*7 .
In the spectrum of mercury , the lines with wave-lengths 4358 , 4046*5 , and 3984 are well extended , but the most important extensions in this spectrum are the lines with wave-lengths 8662*9 , 3654*4 , 3632*9 f the last of these , which form a well-marked triplet , is by far the most extended .
The pair of lines 3130*4 and 3124*5 are greatly extended , and the same remark applies to 2966*4 and 2946*6 .
The dimensions of the principal lines in the cadmium , thallium , 450 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
Physical Characters of the [ Apr. 16 , and mercury spectra were measured on my enlargements .
The principal portion of the lines lying between point and point of the electrode was 42 mm. in all spectra .
The extension of the lines below was 22 mm. to 25 mm. , extension above , 9 mm. to 10 mm. As the extension is always sharp and well defined , it is an important feature in these spectra .
Even concentrated solutions of the metals , when photographed with graphite electrodes , exhibit this extension in their principal lines .
For instance a solution of beryllium chloride shows a very remarkable extension above and below the points of the upper and lower electrodes ; the dimensions of the principal line , wavelength 31302 , are as follows : between the points , 42 mm. : below , 10-5 mm. ; above , 17*5 mm. It is at the upper or positive electrode that the longest extension is observed , but at the lower or negative electrode that it is strongest .
In the case of the cadmium lines , the extension is smaller , but strong at the side of the negative electrode , and very fine and long at that of the positive.* The appearance of lines due to impurities or traces of metals in the spectrum of the negative electrode only , I have attributed to the oscillation of the spark discharge , and the fact that the negative electrode is the hotter.f ( 2 .
) The Nimbus.\#151 ; The nimbus is not apparently dependent on the volatility or the oxidisability of the vapour of the elements , though these properties are connected therewith .
By far the largest nimbus is that of magnesium ; those of cadmium and mercury stand next in order ; the smallest are those of platinum , gold , copper , and silver .
It is thus evident that neither conductivity nor vapour density controls it , for there is very little nimbus on the lines of the thallium and iridium spectra ; but volatility certainly increases it .
There is a considerable nimbus on some of the lines in the spectra of arsenic , antimony , and bismuth ; also on a few lines of tin and of lead .
In the case of magnesium , the cause of the dense and large nimbus is probably the intensity of the chemical action of which the rays of the incandescent vapour are capable , together with the large quantity of metal in the track of the spark , owing to its volatility .
The chemical activity of the zinc rays iB less than that of the rays of magnesium , but the effect of this is overbalanced by the density of the vapour and the volatility of the metal being both greater ; accordingly the lines of zinc have a large nimbus .
The nimbus is somewhat larger on the lines of cadmium than on those of zinc , the volatility and the density of the vapour are both greater .
* In a paper published in the * Scientific Proceedings of the Royal* Dublin Society , on the constitution of electric sparks , this does not appear in the lithographed illustration , but I have carefully verified the fact by referring to the original photographs .
t Loc .
cit. , p. 373 , 1891 .
] Lines in the Spark Spectra of the Elements .
451 The nimbus is evidently an expression of the quantity of matter in the spark , and the intensity of the chemical action which the rays emitted by its ignited vapour are capable of exerting .
( 3 .
) On the Continuous Spectrum which forms the Background to the Lines of certain Spectra.\#151 ; This must be caused by the ignition either of some solid substance or of a vapour which is not that of an element but an oxide .
An examination of the spectra in which the continuous background of rays is a conspicuous feature discloses the fact that the metals which are not oxidisable do not possess it , for instance , gold , silver , and platinum .
Metals of the iron group show it near the points of the electrodes when the non-volatile oxides are formed .
The very volatile metals with volatile oxides , such as mercury , iridium , thallium , zinc , and cadmium , do not show it .
Spectra of the metalloids , such as tellurium , arsenic , antimony , and bismuth , which are not only volatile but which form volatile oxides , show it very strongly .
Ordinarily , magnesium does not show it , because the exposure necessary for photographing the spectrum of that element is less by one-half the period of the others , and by one-quarter that of tellurium .
When a plate is long exposed to the rays of magnesium , the continuous spectrum appears at the points of the electrodes where the non-volatile oxide would be formed .
It may be considered that in the passage of the spark , the vapour of the element fills the track , and this vapour , on cooling , forms , for a minute period of time , an incandescent oxide , and , the spectrum of this being a continuous spectrum , its photograph appears as a background to the rays emitted by the element .
But it is nevertheless the fact that the continuous background is a very characteristic feature of the metalloids , though whv the vapours of these oxides should produce this action more conspicuously than those of the oxides of the volatile metals , there seems to be no sufficient or well-understood reason to be advanced at present . .
niay be that the vapours of the metalloids in cooling emit a con-tinous spectrum for a short period prior to oxidation .
On the Breadth of Lines.\#151 ; It is well known that , under identical j c\#174 ; aditions , the principal lines in the spectrum of an element become j 8 *\#174 ; \#174 ; 8er and broader as the rays forming the spectrum proceed from ( j ?
ar8er quantity of material , that is to say , form a denser radiating 1 \amp ; is evident , then , that in any series of three or more I \#174 ; \#174 ; *aents of similar character , the intensity and the breadth of the 2* their spectra will depend upon ( I ) intensity of chemical energy ( 2 ) volatility and vapour density , and ( 3 ) electric conduc-M-rnty of the metal .
|| T ijj i , accordance with these conditions , the lines of cadmium are n Gr ^an those of zinc , and the lines of zinc broader than those | 1 taagnesium .

