3 .
" On the Nervous Ganglia of the Uterus .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. The author , in a paper which was read to the Royal Society on the 12th of December , 1839 , had described four great plexuses under the peritoneum of the gravid uterus , having an extensive connexion with the hypogastric and spermatic nerves .
From their form , co ?
lour , general distribution , and resemblance to ganglionic plexuses of nerves , and from their branches actually coalescing with those of the hypogastric and spermatic nerves , he was induced to believe , on first discovering them , that they were ganglionic nervous plexuses , and that they constituted the special nervous system of the uterus .
He states in the present paper , that subsequent dissections of the unimpregnated uterus , and of the gravid uterus in the third , fourth , sixth , seventh , and ninth months of pregnancy , have enabled him not only to confirm the accuracy of his former observations , but also to dis ?
cover the important fact , that there are many large ganglia on the uterine nerves , and on those of the vagina and bladder , which enlarge with the coats , blood-vessels , nerves , and absorbents of the uterus during pregnancy , and which return , after parturition , to their ori ?
ginal condition before conception took place .
The author next pro ?
ceeds to describe the two great ganglia situated on the sides of the neck of the uterus , in which the hypogastric and several of the sa ?
cral nerves terminate , and which he calls the hypogastric , or uterocervical ganglia .
In the unimpregnated state , they are of an irre ?
gular , triangular , or oblong shape , about half an inch in the long diameter , and always consist of grey and white matter , like other ganglia .
They are covered by the trunks of the vaginal and vesical arteries and veins ; and each ganglion has an artery of considerable size , which enters it near the centre and divides into branches , accompanying the nerves given off from its anterior and inferior borders .
From the inner and posterior surface of each of these ganglia , nerves pass off , which anastomose with the haemorrhoidal nerves , and ramify on the sides of the vagina , and between the vagina and rectum .
From the inferior border of each hypogastric ganglion several fasci ?
culi of nerves are given off , which pass down on the sides of the vagina , and enter some large flat ganglia , midway between the os uteri and ostium vaginae .
From these vaginal ganglia innumerable filaments of nerves , on which small flat ganglia are formed , extend to the sphincter , where they are lost in a white dense membranous expansion .
From this great web of ganglia and nerves numerous branches are sent to the sides of the bladder , and enter it around the ureter .
All these nerves of the vagina are accompanied with artcries ; and they often form complete rings of nerve around the trunks of the great veins .
The author then describes the nerves which are given off from the anterior margin of each hypogastric ganglion , some of which pass on the outside of the ureter , and others on the inside , and meet in front of the ureter in a ganglion , which he calls the middle vesical ganglion .
There are other two ganglia , he states , formed on these nerves ; one between the uterus and ureter , and the other between the ureter and vagina .
These he calls the internal and external vesical ganglia .
Not only is the ureter enclosed within a great ring of nervous mat ?
ter , which , he says , resembles the oesophageal ganglia in some of the invertebrata ; but the trunks of the uterine artery and vein are like ?
wise encircled by a great collar of nervous matter , between which and the hypogastric ganglion several large and some small branches pass .
The author gives the following description of the vesical ganglia .
The internal vesical ganglion , which usually has a flattened or long bulbous shape , is formed entirely upon the nerves which pass from the hypogastric ganglion , and run between the uterus and the ureter .
It has an artery which passes through its centre .
It first gives off a large branch to the ring of nerve or ganglion which surrounds the uterine blood-vessels ; it then sends branches to the anterior part of the cervix uteri , and afterwards a great number of small filaments to the muscular coat of the bladder behind , where it is in contact with the uterus ; and it then sends forwards a large branch , which terminates in the middle vesical ganglion .
This ganglion sends off a great number of large nerves to the bladder .
Some of these accompany the arteries , and can be seen ramifying with them upon the whole of the superior part of the organ , even to the fundus .
Filaments of these nerves , scarcely visible to the naked eye , are seen in one of the preparations ramifying upon the bundles of muscular fibres , occa ?
sionally forming loops and enclosing them , or passing down between them to the strata of fibres below .
Some of the smaller branches of the middle vesical ganglion do not accompany the arteries , but are distributed at once to the parts of the bladder around the ureter .
The external vesical ganglion is formed entirely upon the nerves which proceed from the hypogastric ganglion , and pass on the out ?
side of the ureter .
This is a small thin ganglion , the branches of which are sent immediately into the muscular coat of the bladder .
It usually sends down a long branch to anastomose with the nerves issuing from one of the vaginal ganglia .
From the inner surface of each hypogastric ganglion numerous small white , soft , nerves pass to the uterus , some of which ramify upon the muscular coat about the cervix , and others spread out under the peritoneum to coalesce with the great ganglia and plexuses situated on the posterior and anterior surfaces of that organ .
Large branches also go off from the inner surface of the ganglion to the nerves surrounding the blood-vessels of the uterus , which they accompany in all their ramifications throughout its muscular coat .
This paper is illustrated by two drawings , in which the hypogastric , vaginal , vesical and uterine ganglia are delineated in the fourth month of pregnancy , and also the plexuses of nerves on the anterior surface of the uterus .
From an examination with the microscope of portions of the plexuses under the peritoneum of a gravid uterus in the ninth month , which had long been immersed in rectified spirit , Professor Owen and Mr. Kiernan inferred that they were not nervous plexuses , but bands of elastic tissue , gelatinous tissue , or cellular membrane .
The author concludes his paper with a letter from John Dalrymple , Esq. , containing the results of the observations he had made with the microscope on the uterine nerves in the recent state .
Fila ?
ments of the nerves which surrounded the ureter , and which were situated upon the body of the uterus , were submitted to the micro ?
scope .
The instrument employed was a very powerful object-glass , whose focus was the eighth of an inch , made by Ross .
Mr. Dalrymple found that it was impossible , even with the most careful dissection , to detach any filamentof nerve without including a quantity of cellular and elastic tissue ; so that although the tubular portion indicating the nerve was distinct , yet it was surrounded by innumerable extremely minute threads coiled and contorted , such as those which constitute the component of elastic tissue , and the ultimate element of cellular membrane .
Under slight pressure , however , the tube was plainly discernible , and was found to contain granular matter , not uniformly distributed , but collected in minute masses at intervals .
Small blood-vessels were also here and there seen , with blood-discs within them , which served to indicate the difference between the nervous and vascular tubes , and thus to avoid the possibility of error .
Being , however , aware that some of the most distinguished foreign microscopical anatomists had differed as to what was the real characteristic of the nerves of the sympathetic system , and feeling , from this discordance of opinion , that there was no absolute test , or at least none which was not open to cavil , Mr. Dalrymple thought of making a comparison of the uterine nerves with those that undeniably belonged to the ganglionic system .
He therefore traced some nerves on the surface of the stomach up to the great ganglion that gave them origin ; and he selected some also from the small intestine .
These he submitted to the same microscopical power , and under the same circumstances of light , and pressure , and medium .
In all of these he observed the tubular part filled with granular matter , and similarly collected in minute masses .
He also observed that each tube was surrounded by the minute serpentine threads before described .
In fact , so closely did they agree in every particular with the appearances presented by the uterine nerves , that it would have been impossible to distinguish the one from the other .

