]\gt ; PEAltsoN , F.B.S. , University College , London .
Beceived March March 29 , 1900 .
1 .
In a paper recently contributed to the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' " " Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
III .
On the Magnitude of Certain Coefficients of Correlation in Man , \ldquo ; *\amp ; c. , I dealt with the problem of the possible dependence of fertility on homogamy , and I used the following word " " When any form of life breaks up into two groups under the influence of natural selection , what is to prevent them intercrossing and so the differentiation at each fresh reproductive stage 1\ldquo ; The anslYer I suggested was twofold\mdash ; ( i ) homogamy , which I can demonstrate to actually exist in the case of man , and ( ii ) a possible dependence of fertility on , which would render the cross u1lions relatively sterile .
Either ( i ) or ( ii ) would be effective , but ( ii ) would have the advantage that it does not presuppose assortative we could have a permanent differentiation even with random mating .
In writing the above sentence , I had two further points in mind : ( a ) that reproductive selection , while quite capable of producing an eYolution , a progressive change in a species , could not by itself differentiate a species into two sub-groups , and ( b ) that no correlation of homogamy with fertility could possibly differentiate a species , how- ever much it might cause the species to progressively change as a whole .
My view was that a correlation of homogamy with fertility , cogether with natural selection , could produce a permanent differentiaof species , but that neither alone could be effectual .
It was from standpoint that I concluded my paper with the words:\mdash ; ' I can conceive no more valuable investigation than a series of experiments or measurements directed to ascertaining whether homogamy is or is not correlated with fertility\ldquo ; ( p. 32 ) .
In writing these words I overlooked a very admirable piece of work by Mr. H. M. Vernon , , published in our own 'Transactions , ' on " " The Relations between the Hybrid and Parent Forms of Echinoid Larvae.\ldquo ; Had I been acquainted with this memoir , I should certainly have referred to it .
In drawing my attention to it , Mr. Vernon has also referred me to two papers by himself in 'Natural Science , ' on what he terms ' Reproductive Divergence.\ldquo ; While welcoming heartily Mr. Vernon 's facts in the paper on ' Echinoid Larvae bearing .
and Data for the of Man .
on the correlation of fertility and homogamy , I want at once to express my entire disagreement with his view of reproductive selection , if he holds it , as he appears to do , as a source of divergence or differentiation quite of natural selection .
The simple fact is , that if fertility be any function of the organs or relative organs of the parents , having a frequency distribution defined by a normal frequency surface , or by any surface approximating to such a chance distribution , then reproductive selection , whether homogamy or any other factor be present , may , under special circumstances , produce a progressive change in a character ; it cannot , unless other factors of evolution , such as natural selection , come into play , produce differentiation .
2 .
I shall assume throughout my proof that the frequency distributions obey the normal law .
Now let one offspring only be taken from each pair of parents , and let the organs in the two parents be , and in the offspring , where , are the respective means ; let be the standard deviations of the three organs , and , the coefficients of correlation , then the frequency of a triplet of parents and offspring with orga1ts lying between and and , respectively , is determined by expt .
where ) and total number of pairs of parents .
If , instead of the single offspring , we take , we have only to replace in the above results by reproductive selection supposes the fertility of a given pair not to be independent of the measure of their organs , in this case of and If we suppose to represent the total fertility of a given pair , we * ' This divergence of species takes place quite independently of natural selec .
tion , but this principle can always be exerting its action at the same time , whereby the new or modified characteristics produoed can , if useful to the species , be accu mulated and rendered better adapted to the environmental conditions 'Natural 8oience , ' vol. 11 , p. 186 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 187 , where / ' is the deviation of some character based upon both parental organs from the value which gives the maximum fertility , and is standard deviation .
Thus , and denoting constants , higher terms in and ) ; henco ?
if we neglect higher powers of and .
This will , as a rule , be justified if and are small as compared with and We conclude that : expt .
) If we multiply this by we have the distribution of parents and off spring , allowing for a varying fertility .
Let this be , then it will be once obvious that const .
expt .
[ -quadratic expression in ] .
HeIlCG if we integrate for and , so as to .
get the distribution of the offspring , we find it again given by a normal curve , i.e. , a curve symmetrical about its mode .
nprogressive change , no differentiaticm , can be eproductive selection .
This is the proof , of which I merely stated the result in my " " Note on Reproductive Selection\ldquo ; of 1895.* The same view was again expressed in my memoir on ' Genetic ( Reproductive ) Selection\ldquo ; of 1898 .
While reproductive selection is invaluable as an aid to natural selection , alone it can only progressively modify not differentiate a race .
For such differentiation we should have to suppose some much more elaborate relation between fertility and the complex of parental organs than is indicated by a normal chance distribution .
3 .
In order to show what would occur supposing fertility reached a maximum with homogamous unions , I do not simply take to be the difference of the parental organs , for it is quite conceivable that the organs may be sexual characters , and differ not only in magnitude but even qualitatively .
I accordingly suppose the fertility to be a maximum * .
Soc. Proc vol. 59 , p. 303 .
( Phil. Trans , vol. 192 , $14 .
Pata for the robler b of Man .
when the two organs bear certain ratio to each other .
For example , we hardly mean by a homogamous union in man and woman vlth regard to stature , a case of husband and wife of equal height , but rather a case of their being relativjly of equal height , or , say , the ratio of their statures For this reason I put , and asked Mr. L. N. G. Filon , M.A. , to work out for me the constants of the correlation surface , whose ordinate is .
He has kindly provided me with the following results , the analysis being straightforward but lengthy .
Let be the mean values of the organs in the parents , each parent being repeated for each of his or her offspring .
mean value of offspring 's organ , or be the progression in the character due to the influence of homogamy .
, the standard deviations of the parents ' organs , these being , as in the case of and , weighted with their fertility .
standard deviation in offspring 's organ , or is the changc in variability due to the homogamous influence .
correlations between parent and offspring when we take all , and not a single offspring from each union .
the coefficient of assortative mating when we take each pair as many times as there are offspring of the umion .
We have : ( i ) . .
( ii ) .
This lnst result may be written ( iii ) .
( iv ) .
( v ) .
( vi ) .
* This is how I have looked at the matter in " " Data for Problem of Evolu lion in Man .
III ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 66 , p. 31 .
Prof. Karl earson .
( vii ) .
( viii ) .
( ix ) .
Results to ( ix ) contain the whole theory of the influence on evolution of a relation between homogamy and fertility .
4 .
General Condusions .
There is in general a progressive change in the species as a whole , but no divergence or differentiation .
( b ) The change in the second generation as given by ( iii ) ) is precisely what we might have anticipated from my theory of biparental inheritance , assuming that the offspring are those of parents differing from the general population by an amount of the character which is the excess marking parents weighted by their fertility from the general parental population .
( c ) The offspring will be less variable than they would be without a correlation between homogamy and fertility , i.e. , from ( vi ) is always less than * .
Soc. Proc vol. 58 , p. 240 , or ' Phil. Irans vol. 187 , p. 287 .
Another interesting relation of this kind is the following one : or the variability of an array of offspring from sel , cted paronts is unaltered by th6 relation between homogamy and fertility\mdash ; a result which might be a priori expected .
Data for the Problem of volution in Jfan .
.321 The coefficient of assortative mating for parents weighted with their fertility differs sensibly from that of unweighted parents Generally the effect of a relation between homogamy and fertility is to increase the apparent coefficient of sortative mating .
( e ) The coefficients of parental heredity are also modified when we take all and not a single representative of the offspring .
5 .
Special Conclusions.\mdash ; These depend on how we define nogamy .
When would the male and female be " " alike\ldquo ; ?
Mr. Francis Galton , in the case of stature in man , reduces the female to the male equivalent by altering her stature in the ratio of mean male to mean female stature .
In my paper on the Law of Anoestral Heredity I give reasons for using as a factor of reduction the ratio of the male standard deviation to the female standard deviation .
Mr. Galton 's method and mine agree fairly closely in the case of man , for the coefficients of variation of man and woman ( i.e. , 100 and 100 in our present notation ) are nearly equal for a considerable variety of organs .
In either case we should understand by a homogamous union one in which the female reduced to the male equivalent was exactly equal to the male organ .
Accordingly the ratio of to would be that of to , or of to 01 according to the hypothesis adopted .
In the case oi man , if either hypothesis be used , the other would be nearly satisfied .
Hence , with a reasonable hypothesis as to what we mean by homogamy , it follows ( a ) No progressive change in the mean would arise in a species owing to a relation between homogamy and fertility , since either or .
( b ) With equipotency of hereditary influence in the parents , the race would not on my hypothesis alter its variability , and on Mr. Galton 's hypothesis only by an extremely small quantity of the fourth order then differs from 03 by a term of the .
( c ) The coefficient of assortative mating will be increased .
For if , then which is greater than .
If , then , or a relation between homogamy and fertility would produce an apparent correlation between husband and wife , if we weighted them with their fertility , although they exercised no selective mating .
This increase of is in complete agreement with the result obtained for the coefficient * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 390 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 187 , p. 276 .
for Evolution in Illan .
of assortative mating in the paper* ' Data for the Problem of tion in Man .
III.\ldquo ; ( d ) The coefficient of heredity will generally be increased by taking all instead of a single one of the offspring .
For example , putting as before , we flnd for equipotency\mdash ; Thus showing how the spurious coefficient of assortative mating modifies the coefficient of inheritance .
6 .
Thus I think it will be clear that Divergence has not effective existence .
More generally Reproductive Selection , unless we suppose ab initio a fertility distribution with two modes ( which is not given by homogamy , and wants , in any case , a special explanation ) , will not produce diffel.entiation .
It can produce , as I have often stated , progressive change .
So far as I can yet see , differentiation involve natural selection , and one can only appeal to reproductive selection as a means , but I think an effective means , of maintaining a differentiation already brought about by Darwin 's fundamental factor in evolution .
Mr. Vernon , his first paper , states that given a relationship between homogamy and fertility , then reproductive divergence " " is capable of mathematical demonstration .
This we will now proceed to afford " " p. 182 ) .
In his second paper , he gives he terms " " the mathematical basis of the theory more fully\ldquo ; ( p. 404 ) .
I venture to think that the whole of his treatment is fallacious .
In the first paper he neglects the Law of Regression , and he thinks this justifiable , but it is not so .
In ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 66 , p. 80 .
Assuming equipotent hereditary of father and mother for stature , have from the above paper\mdash ; 009$1 , ana Hence .
Thus from the equation for we find .
If stature of father , stature of mother , we ] for the relation between fertility and homogamy suflice to indicate how such can be numericaIly inveetigatecL ' Proceedings and List of Papers read .
the second paper he takes an arithmetical example based on 205 families .
His results , if correct , would only show a flattening of the frequency-curve , an increased variability , and not a divergence or differentiation .
But I have shown that the tendency is really to a decreased variability , and on examination it will be found that the differences on which Mr. Vernon bases his conclusions are all of the order of the probable errors of his results !
Apart from this , however , the whole of his argument on pp. 405-6 seems to me invalid ; we cannot proceed by a vague threefold classification such as he adopts ; and he nowhere introduces , so far as I can see , ) difference in height of the parents which must be the essential feature of the whole argument .
That Mr. Vernon has shown a relationship between homogamy and fertility in his 'Phil .
Trans. ' memoir is of high value , but I hold that such cannot help us in the slight degree to dispense with the fundamental factor of Darwinian evolution , namely , natural selection . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of notice sent to the Fellows , an election was held to fill the vacancy upon the Council caused by the decease of Mr. G. J. Symons .
The statutes relating to the election of the Council , and the statute relating to the election of a Member of Council upon the occurrence of a vacancy , were read , and Professor Carey Foster and Sir E. Ommamley having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were taken and Mr. W. H. M. Christie , Astronomer Royal , was declared duly elected .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Weight of Hydrogen desiccated by Liquid Air By LORD RAYLEIGH , F.B.S. * Since the above paper was sent to the Royal Society\mdash ; ( a ) The relationship of ( olour to fertility in both mall and woman ) been investigated for several thoustlnd cases ; while there oppears to be some correlation between -colour and fertility , homogamous unions do not ppear to be the more fertile .
The numbers wm be eventually published ; ( b ) Mr. Vernon has sent me a letter stating that , on further investigation , he has modifled his views on Reprcluctive VOL. LXVI .
2

