1881.1 Bimodular Method of Computing Logarithms .
381 III .
" On a Method of Destroying the Effects of slight Errors of * Adjustment in Experiments of Changes of Refrangibility due to Relative Motions in the Line of Sight .
" By E. J. Stone , F.R.S. , Director of the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford .
Received January 17 , 1881 .
Let arrangements be made for the reversion , of the prisms without any disturbance of the other optical arrangements , including , of course , the position of the cylindrical lens , if one be used .
Any slight errors of adjustment which prevent the light from the star and the comparison light from falling upon the train of prisms under the same optical circumstances , so far as mere direction is concerned , will have opposite effects in the reversed positions of the prisms ; but the separation of the emergent lights due to relative motion will remain unchanged by the reversal of the positions of the prisms .
If , therefore , the apparent change of refrangibility due to relative motion remains unchanged by the reversion of the prisms , all doubts about the effects of errors of adjustment will be removed .
But if the results in the reversed positions of the prisms sensibly differ , then the existing errors of adjustment must be removed , , or their effects allowed for by taking a mean of the results in reversed positions , before any reliance can be fairly placed upon the determination of relative motions in the line of sight .
A reversible spectroscope was arranged by me , and made by Mr. Simms , some years ago , but I have never since had an equatoreal , with a good driving clock , under my control with which the experiment indicated could be properly tried .
With the direct prisms now in use , the required reversion can be easily arranged .
I am not likely , for some time , to have the use of a good equatoreal , and I , therefore , publish the plan with the hope that some one more fortunately situated may give it a fair trial .
The experiment is a crucial one , and , in my opinion , should be tried .
IY .
" On an Improved Bimodular Method of computing Natural and Tabular Logarithms and Anti-Logarithms to Twelve or Sixteen Places , with very brief Tables .
" By Alexander J. Ellis , B.A. , F.R.S. , F.S.A. Received January 17 , 1881 .
Section I.\#151 ; Nature of the Bimodular Method and its Improvement .
The Bimodulus is a constant , which is exactly double of the modulus of any system of logarithms .
The Bimodular Method is derived from

