I. " Preliminary Note on the Nature and Qualities of Voltaic Currents .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. 1.S .
Received January 9 , 1N62 .
1 .
In a recent paper " On the production of Vibrations and Sounds by Electrolysis , " I have shown that if a voltaic current of suitable quantity from two Grove 's or five Smee 's elements is passed by a mercury anode through a solution composed of 10 grains of cyanide of mercury and 100 grains of hydrate of potash , dissolved in 2ounces of hydrocyanic acid containing 5 per cent. of anhydrous acid , into an annular cathode of mercury about 2 or 3 inches diameter and -th of an inch wide , visible and symmetrical vibrations of the negative mercury , accompanied by definite sounds , are produced ; and the current becomes intermittent as long as the vibrations continue , similar to a current made intermittent by means of an ordinary breali-hammer .
2 .
If two voltaic currents of suitable and equal quantity ( measured by a voltameter in the circuit ) , the one being generated by about eight Smee 's elements of large immersed surface , and the other generated by twenty Smee 's elements of small surface , are passed separately through the arrangement just described , vibrations and sounds are in each case produced ; but with the current from the few elements of large surface the amplitude of the vibrations is small and the sound hi , h , whilst with the current from the many elements of small surface the amplitude of the vibrations is large and the sound base .
These differences in the vibrations and sounds are still more conspicuous if a galvanometer of small resistance ( i. e. with a short and thick wire ) is substituted for the voltameter , and about four Smee 's elements employed instead of the eight .
In each of these experiments the voltameter ( or galvanometer ) is in the circuit with the cyanide solution ; the quantities of the two currents are made equal by suitably adjusting the relative depths of immersion of the plates of the two batteries ; and each experiment ( with the volta .
meter ) occupies 3 minutes .
The size of the mercury electrodes has also been previously adjusted to the power of the current , so as to give continuous definite vibrations and sounds .
3 .
Further:-If a current from two Grove 's or five Smee 's ele .
ments of large surface is passed through a primary coil of about 250 feet of thick copper wire , through the cyanide solution and small-resistance galvanometer , the vibrations are moderate in size and the pitch of the sound is moderately high ; but if the axis of the coil contains a massive bundle of soft iron wires , the vibrations are much larger and the pitch of the sound is much more base ; and if the primary coil is surrounded by a secondary coil containing about 4000 feet of fine copper wire , the ends of which are closely united together , and the iron core is absent , the vibrations are very much smaller and the sound is much higher .
In each case the quantity of the current , however , remains the same .
If a voltameter is used instead of the galvanometer , a greater number of elements ( about eight Smee 's ) must be employed , and the difference in the effects is then less striking .
If a battery of much greater intensity , say twenty Smee 's elements , is employed , no difference in the vibrations or sounds is produced by the introduction of the soft iron core , nor by closing the secondary coil .
Do not voltaic currents therefore of equal quantities * from different sources , or under different external conditions , like heat and light from different sources , possess different qualities ยง 4 .
From these results ( as well as from additional ones that I have obtained ) it appears to me that voltaic electricity , like heat or light , may be viewed as consisting of vibrations or successive impulses , which under ordinary circumstances occupy so minute a period of time as to be inappreciable , but when acting under suitable conditions upon suitable substances , such as the metal and liquid referred to ( 1 ) , the vibrations of the current are taken up by the substances , and the oscillations of the substances thereby produced are gradually increased by the synchronous impulses of the current until they become visible and attain their maximum ( see paper " On the production of Vibrations and Sounds by Electrolysis , " paragraph 1 ) , like visible oscillations of a pendulum produced by minute synchronous mechanical impulses .
This I beg leave to state as an hypothesis for the purpose of making the subject more clear and aiding future inquiry .
Note by the Communicator , [ The results mentioned in this paper are well worthy of attentive consideration , in relation to that curious and still mysterious phenomenon which the author is investigating with so much care .
As regards , however , the conjecture thrown out by the author , -while the importance of such a conclusion as that of the existence of qualitative differences in permanent electric currents , according as few or many voltaic elements are concerned in their formation , or of periodicity as a necessary condition of a voltaic current , if fully established , cannot be overrated , the conclusion does not seem to the Communicator of the paper to be fairly deducible from the experiments de ' scribed , It would rather seem that , from some cause yet to be investigated , the motion of the mercurial cathode , or rather the change of figure resulting from the motion , alters the total electromotive force or resistance ( more probably the resistance ) in the circuit , and thus , by altering the current , reacts upon the forces whereby the motion of the cathode is produced .
In a circuit of small resistance , it might be expected according to this view that a smaller motion of the cathode would suffice to bring about a given change in the current , and a corresponding change in the force producing the motion , and accordingly that the period of the changes would be shorter than in a circuit of greater resistance , although the

