On the Water of the Mediterranean .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read December 18 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 29 .
] The late Dr. Marcet in his examination of sea-water , of which he has given an account in the Philosophical Transactions for 1819 , had been unable , for want of a sufficient number of specimens of water taken at various depths in the Mediterranean , to draw any certain inference as to what becomes of the vast amount of salt brought into that sea by the constant current which sets in from the Atlantic through the Straits of Gibraltar , and which , on the evaporation of the water , must either remain in the basin of the Mediterranean , or escape by some hitherto unexplained means .
In the hope of obtaining further evidence on this question , he had requested Captain Smyth , R.N. , who was engaged in a Survey of that sea , to procure specimens of water from the greatest accessible depths .
The specimens collected by Captain Smyth were , in consequence of Dr. Marcet 's death , given to other persons , and applied to other objects .
Dr. Wollaston , however , fortunately obtained the three remaining bottles of the collection .
The contents of one of these , taken up at about fifty miles within the Straits , and from a depth of 670 fathoms , was found to have a density exceeding that of distilled water by more than four times the usual excess ; and accordingly , it left upon evaporation more than four times the usual quantity of saline residuum .
The result of the examination of this specimen accords completely with the anticipation , that a couliter current of denser water might exist at great depths in the neighbourhood of the Straits , capable of carrying westward into the Atlantic as much salt as enters into the Mediterranean with the eastward current near the surface .
If the two currents were of equal breadth and depth , the velocity of the lower current need only be one fourth of that of the upper current , in order to prevent any increase of saltness in the nlediterranean .

