164 A Preliminary Note upon the Question of the Nutrition of the Early Embryo , with Special Reference to the Guinea-pig and Man .
By E. Emrys-Roberts , M.B. ( Liverpool ) , Ethel Boyce Research Fellow in Gynaecological Pathology in The University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1905 .
) During the progress of a research into the earliest implantation of the embryo of the guinea-pig , I have been particularly struck with the way in which the nutrition of the embryo is anticipated and provided for during the time it remains free in the uterine horn .
The so-called yolk-granules of the ovum are obviously insufficient to provide for the growth of the embryo to the stage prior to differentiation of the inner cell-mass , to which it attains during the five or six days which elapse before it comes into contact with the maternal tissues.* It is clear that it must derive nourishment from the medium in which it lies\#151 ; the product of the secretion of the uterine or other glands , which , during the period of pro-oestrum , exhibit such marked activity .
I suggest that this secretion , which consists of mucus and probably albumin , is assimilated by the embryo after having undergone a process of digestion , the result of a secretory activity on the part of the outermost cells of the embryo\#151 ; the cells of the Trophoblast .
This suggestion I base on my observations in the guinea-pig , where I am able to demonstrate a breaking-down of maternal cells before the Trophoblastic cells are in actual contact ; likewise in human placentation where a more or less dense layer of fibrin and broken-down leucocytes and decidual cells , the result of Trophoblastic activity , affords a barrier interposed between the invading Trophoblastic cells and the Decidua .
This layer I purpose naming the " Protective Layer .
" Looked at from a comparative point of view , there is in all probability a close analogy between the uterine secretion of mammals , and the secretion of the oviducts of the lower vertebrata .
In the case of birds the analogy is very striking , on account of the direct and important share in the nutrition of the embryo afforded by this secretion , commonly known as the white of the egg .
In the case of the frog the ovum receives in its passage down the oviduct , corresponding to the uterine horn of the guinea-pig , a coating of mucus and * This insufficiency is even more pronounced in the mole , where the uterine cavity is actually distended by the growing embryo before implantation takes place .
On the Nutrition of the Early Embryo .
probably albumin , comparable to the uterine secretion referred to above ; when it reaches the water and becomes fertilised , this swells up by absorption , forming a gelatinous covering .
The embryo for nutriment depends upon the yolk contained in the ovum before fertilisation , upon the covering of mucus and probably albumin , and lastly upon the water in which it lies .
In certain mammals , as , for example , the rabbit and the mole , a distinct gelatinous envelope is described as surrounding the embryo before implantation occurs ; this envelope is , I suggest , possibly due to some digestive action of the cells of the Trophoblast upon the adjacent medium , producing a form of coagulation .
In a number of mammals during the period of pro-oestrum the secretion of uterine glands is supplemented by a pouring-forth of blood , from the simple oozing of congested vessels , to that associated with actual exfoliation of uterine epithelium .
Although there is reason to suppose that the flow of blood has practically ceased before the embryo reaches the uterine cavity , .there is , in all probability , a considerable quantity of blood-serum present , in addition to the secretion of the uterine glands .
I think it is conceivable , if not highly probable , that this process is , in part at least , a preparation on the part of the mother for providing a rich pabulum to nourish the embryo until such time as it attaches itself to the uterine wall ; while , when implantation is effected , there is in readiness for the embryo an abundant supply of richest nutriment .

