883 .
] On the Motor Roots of the Brachial Plexus , Sc. ricular nerves start , reflex movements of the animal ( dog ) were bThertflex acceleration of the heart beat , to be obtained by central fcimulation of the cardiac nerves , is marked , and is not due to change \#166 ; blood pressure .
The fact that sensory nerves go to the heart was hown long ago by Ludwig and Cyon 's discovery of the depressor ierve in the rabbit .
In the dog a large nerve ( or two smaller ) runs from the left vagus mnglion and sometimes from the trunk , and ends chiefly between the .oats of the aorta , giving occasionally a branch to the Artena Pulmonalis .
The peripheral stimulation of this nerve is without fleet .
The central stimulation produces slowing ot the heart and all of blood pressure ; sometimes the slowing is followed by acceleia-\gt ; ion .
The nerve is very sensitive to mechanical stimulation .
The extent and importance of the centripetal nerves which come from the heart and great vessels , is clearly shown in the author 's experiments .
Whether the ventricular nerves are solely centripetal or not has not been fully determined .
It is rendered probable by the author 's experiments , that both vagus and accelerans act on mechanisms in the auricles .
In some cases the author has observed changes of blood pressure follow stimulation of the peripheral ends of nerves going direct to the heart , either without any change in the beat , or without a corresponding change .
But his observations on this point are too few to draw definite conclusions .
The mercurial manometer was used .
The dogs were narcotized with opium , and then the brain divided through the pons , the object being to render the subsequent steps of opening the thorax painless , and still to preserve reflex actions .
TV .
" Note on the Motor Roots of the Brachial Plexus , and on the Dilator Nerve of the Iris .
" By David FeRRIER , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine in King 's College .
Received April 24 , 1883 .
In a communication to the Royal Society ( published in the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , 1881 ) on the " Functional Relations of the Motor Roots of the Brachial and Lumbo-Sacral Plexuses , " my colleague , Professor Gerald Yeo , and myself gave an account of the results of electrical stimulation of the several motor roots of the brachial and crural plexuses in the monkey .
We there described the muscular actions of the upper extremity as resulting from stimulation of the first dorsal up to the fourth cervical nerve .
The careful dissections made at our request by Mr. W. Tyrell Brooks , Demonstrator in the Physiological Laboratory , King 's College , Dr. D. Fender .
[ May li and a repetition of the stimulation experiments which I have mad have revealed an error in the enumeration of the roots of the braclii ; plexus , which , in common with Professor Yeo , I wish to correct .
Wh : .
we took for the first dorsal nerve has proved in reality to he t !
second dorsal .
Hence the results of the experiments must be read si applying to the spinal nerves from the second dorsal to the fift cervical respectively , instead of from the first dorsal to the fourt cervical , as stated in our paper .
The anterior division of the second dorsal nerve in the monkei apparently invariably , gives a well developed communicating branc to the first dorsal , besides giving off the second intercostal nerve an a branch to the stellate or inferior cervical ganglion of the sympsi thetic .
The three branches , as seen in a dissection made for me by Mi Brooks , seem pretty -equal in size , and all come off from the mail trunk together .
The brachial plexus in man is not usually , in text-books of ana tomy , considered as deriving any of its component roots below th first dorsal .
In " Quain 's Anatomy " ( 9th ed. , p. filff ) , however , ; branch from the second to the first dorsal is given as a variety .
Oi this subject Dr. D. -J .
Cunningham has published a mote in th .
" Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , " vol. xi , Part III , p. 589,187/ I)r .
Allen Thomson having mentioned to him that he had on one o two occasions seen such a communicating branch in man , he in vestigated the point , with the result of finding a communicating branch from the second to the first dorsal in twenty-seven out o thirty-seven dissections .
Of the -ten cases where it was not found five were so complicated by previous interference in the dissecting room or by pleuritic adhesions and thickenings , that they may be con sidered as doubtful .
But , even including these , it appears that tin second dorsal sends a communicating branch to the first in seventy three per cent , of the cases .
Hence it should be considered as more than a mere variety .
If a perfect homology exists between the roots of the plexus in man and the monkey , the second dorsal root would be the one presiding over the intrinsic muscles of the hand .
Presumably it .
those cases where it is not found , its functions are represented it the first dorsal .
Dilator Nerve of the Iris.\#151 ; Professor Yeo and I mentioned in out paper ( sap .
cit.)that in one case in which we directed special attention to the pupil , stimulation of the anterior roots from the first dorsal to the fourth cervical\#151 ; in reality from the second dorsal to the fifth cervical\#151 ; caused no change in the pupil , though the movements ol the limb occurred with regularity .
I have since investigated this point during the course of another research on which I have been for some time engaged .
I have Oh the Motor Hoots of the Brachial , \lt ; $ c. Hg| .merimented on four monkeys .
The animals were thoroughly P^tised with chloroform , and kept so during the whole course of ?
eriments .
The posterior roots of the nerves under mvestiga-do/ were cut , and the anterior stimulated within the vertebral canal , i-th a weak induced current from the secondary coil ( distant 20-15 -v of a Du Bois Reymond 's magneto-electromotor and one ZlAs in former experiments , a large flat electrode was placed LTthe ' sacrum as a neutral point , the exciting electrode being a hooked needle , by means of which the roots could be easily insulated e^perin^nt I failed to obtain dilatation of the pupil from stimulation of the spinal roots from the second dorsal up to the fourth cervical , though the functional activity of the roots was indicated by movements of the limb .
In the second I exposed the dorsal roots from the eighth up to the third inclusive .
Though different strengths of current were tried no change m the pupil occurred , unless when the current was so strong as to cause diffuse stimulation .
In snch case both pupils would occasionally become dilated , as under sensory stimulation in general .
The functional activity of the roots under investigation was shown by contraction ot j the thoracic muscles on the side of stimulation .
^ In the third experiment , however , results were obtained of such definiteness and uniformity , as to indicate almost without further confirmation the origin of the dilator nerve of the iris .
In this experiment the spinal nerves were exposed from the sixth cervical to the eighth dorsal inclusive .
The posterior roots were cut on the left side , and the anterior roots stimulated , while the eyes were carefully observed by -two assistants\#151 ; my pupils , Mr. Norvill and Mr. East .
Dilatation of the left pupil occurred almost invariably on stimulation of the second dorsal root , whereas no change whatever could be perceived on stimulation of any of .the other exposed roots .
This was verified over and.ovejr again , and the several roots repeatedly compared with each other .
The distance of the secondary coil in this experiment ranged from 2D\#151 ; 18 contims .
Stronger currents not carefully insulated caused dilatation of both pupils wherever the stimulation was applied , an .
expression only , of general sensory stimulation .
After death a careful dissection was made fqr me by Mr. Brooks , and the effective root , which was marked , proved .to be the second dorsal .
An examination with a lens showed that the fibres of the posterior root of this nerve had been completely severed .
The results of the third experiment were .entirely .confirmed by the fourth , which was carried out alike in every detail .
In this I exposed the spinal nerves from the seventh cervical to the fourth dorsal , and cut the posterior roots on the left side .
Presents .
[ APi ' .
5 , Here again with the utmost uniformity on each stimulation of the second dorsal the left pupil , and this one only , became widely dilated whereas stimulation of the other roots was entirely negative in respect to the pupil .
* " I ascertained in this experiment that a strength of current which would suffice to excite the muscles of the limb or trunk to action , would frequently fail to cause any dilatation of the pupil when applied to the second dorsal .
Somewhat stronger , but yet barely perceptible on the tongue , the current at once caused the pupil to dilate .
Occasionally also if the second root had been stimulated repeatedly , the iris failed to respond , probably from mere exhaustion of the nerve .
Circumstances such as these would , I think , account for the absence of the pupil-reaction in my first experiment , and also in the experiment related by Professor Yeo and myself , whefe the second dorsal root was really under stimulation .
The general result of these experiments is to show that in the monkey , and presumably also in man , the dilator fibres of the iris , j contained in the cervical sympathetic , are derived from the anterior root of the second dorsal nerve .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday May 24th .
Presents , April 5 , 1883 .
Transactions .
Amsterdam : K. Akademie van Wetenschappen .
Yerhandelingen .
Afd .
Natuurkunde , Deel XXII .
Afd .
Letterkunde , Deel XV .
4to .
Amsterdam 1883 .
Verslagen en Mededeelingen , Afd .
Xatuurk .
2e Rlcs .
Deel XVII .
Afd .
Letterk .
2e Rks .
Deel XI .
Register .
Deel I\#151 ; XII .
8vo .
Amsterdam 1882 .
Jaarboek , 1881 .
8vo .
Amsterdam .
Processen-Verbaal , 1881-^2 .
8vo .
Prijsvers : Tria Carmina Latina .
The Academy .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academic Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
3e Serie .
Tome IV .
Ho. 12 .
Tome V. No. 1 .
Tables Generates du Recueil des Bulletins .
2e Serie .
Tomes XXI-L .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1883 .
The Academy .
Musee Royal d'Histoire Naturelle .
Annals .
Tome X. Les Arachnides de Belgique .
Par Leon Becker .
Party I et Planches .
4to .
Bruxelles 1882 .
The Museum .
Dijon :\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Memoires .
3e Serie .
Tome VII .
8vo .
Dijon 1882 .
The Academy

