25 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
pointing to the probability that there are certain nerve fibres which do not depend on the ganglion for their trophic supply , but derive the same from elsewhere , either the spinal cord at another level , or the periphery .
In conclusion , the author calls special attention to the value of the method of excluding one or more nerve roots during an epileptic spasm , as affording a means of confirming the facts that have been previously observed from stimulation of the nerve roots , and also of ascertaining new facts with regard to them and the plexuses which they form .
He further goes on to point out that it supplies a valuable-means of studying the manner in which conduction of impulses from the cortex through the nerve roots and plexuses to the muscles takes place ; and that it is capable of still wider extension , as if , instead of producing general epilepsy , less powerful stimuli be applied to the centres for different movements , as represented in the motor cortex , it will afford a means of connecting such centres , or parts of these , with the nerve roots to which fibres proceed from these cortical motor centres .
III .
" The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
" By .1 .
Rose Bradford , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of University College , London , Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine at University College , Grocer Research Scholar .
Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received February 18 , 1892 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London .
) The results described in this preliminary communication were obtained in a series of experiments commenced in June , 1889 , and at present still in progress , with the object of elucidating the functions of the kidneys , and to gain an insight into the disturbance produced in the economy by disease of these organs .
Method .
All the experiments were made on dogs , and a complete experiment involves the following stages :\#151 ; Firstly .
The animal , after being weighed , is placed in a suitable chamber , and fed on a weighed diet containing a known quantity of nitrogen ; the water drunk is also measured .
The amount of urine passed is measured , and the quantity of urea and total nitrogen in it determined .
Finally , the weight of the faeces and the amount of nitrogen in them are also determined .
All the nitrogen determinations were made by means of Kjeldahl 's method ; the urea was estimated by the hypobromite method .
A daily determination of the above factors was made for a period of a week , and a daily average Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 3 , thus obtained .
In the earlier experiments only the quantities of urine and urea passed were determined .
On removal from the chamber , the animal is again weighed .
Secondly.\#151 ; The operation described below is performed on one kidney .
After recovery from this , the dog is again placed in the collecting chamber , and the above data again obtained for a week or more .
Thirdly.\#151 ; The second kidney is removed , and the animal again placed in the collecting chamber , the food and excreta being again determined for a period of a week or more .
Fourthly.\#151 ; At a variable time after the second operation the animal is killed by bleeding , and the amount of nitrogenous extractives present in the tissues determined .
As regards the operative procedures , there is nothing to remark about the second operation\#151 ; the kidney is removed in the usual manner by lumbar incision ; a few words are necessary in order to describe the first operation .
After anaesthetising the animal with chloroform and morphia , the kidney is exposed by a lumbar incision and freed from its connexions .
The vessels in the hilus are then compressed with the fingers , the kidney transfixed from before back , and a large wedge of kidney substance , with the apex of the wedge at the pelvis of the kidney , removed from the middle of the organ .
The piece removed weighed from 5 to 15 grams in different cases .
The very free haemorrhage is arrested by ligature of the large vessels divided , and by pressure on the cut surface .
When all bleeding had been arrested ( the vessels in the hilus being of course no longer compressed ) the cut surfaces of the kidney were brought together by two or three silk sutures passed in deeply , and by numerous superficial fine horsehair sutures involving only the cortex and capsule of the organ .
The abdominal wound was closed and dressed in the usual manner .
Full antiseptic precautions were always used , and morphia was given hypodermically to prolong the narcosis .
Summary of Experiments.\#151 ; Twenty-three animals survived the first operation : fifteen animals survived both operations .
Thus , eight animals died after the first operation and before the second .
The causes of death in these eight were as follows :\#151 ; In four cases the animals were accidentally killed with chloroform administered to perform the second operation .
In two cases the wound became septic and the animals were killed .
In one case death resulted from haemorrhage on the seventh day , and one dog , to which further reference will be made below , died of asthenia thirty-six days after the first operation .
This communication deals with the results obtained in the fifteen complete experiments .
In one , the first , no observations were made on the urine , and in three dogs the observations were incomplete , so 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
that there remain eleven cases in which observations were made on the urine before and after the operations .
Effects of the First Operation ( i.e. , the removal of a wedge of the kidney substance).\#151 ; The shock of the operation passes off in about twenty-four hours , but for two or three days there is some hsematuria , and the appetite is poor .
The temperature of the body remains at its normal height , or there may be slight pyrexia .
The dog , however , soon regains its former health , and no permanent ill effects result from the operation in the great majority of cases .
In one case ( one of the eight incomplete experiments ) the animal died thirty-six days after the operation , with considerable wasting and loss of appetite , and nothing was found post mortem except extreme atrophy of the kidney operated on .
The opposite kidney was healthy and of normal size .
The atrophy was very marked , as the following numbers show:\#151 ; 7'6 grams of the left kidney were removed , post mortem the remaining fragment of the left kidney weighed only 3'5 grams , and the opposite kidney 18 grams .
In this case , the only one where death resulted from the effects of the first operation , although the atrophy was very marked , there was microscopically no evidence of cirrhosis , and no lesions of the renal vessels were discovered .
The cause of death is obscure , as the second kidney was not removed .
With this one exception , the first operation failed to produce any serious or permanent ill effects , and the only result noticed was slight emaciation , but this was generally recovered from in a week or two .
A period of from one to six weeks was allowed to elapse between the first and second operations , and daring this time the animal was placed in the chamber , and the ingesta and excreta determined .
The following table gives the results observed in five cases :\#151 ; to GO Table I. Weight of dog .
Daily quantity of urine .
Daily quantity of urea .
Weight of kidney removed .
* Interval between operation and observation .
Loss in weight of dog .
Before operation .
After operation .
Before operation .
After operation .
No. 16 , 16 lbs. 166 c.c. 200 c.c. 7 grams 10 grams 6 grams 16 days 1*5 lbs. in 36 days No. 21 , 13 lbs. 113 c.c. 98 c.c. 9 grams 8 grams 7 grams 15 days 1 lb. in 28 days No. 22 , 14 lbs , 86 c.c. 156 c.c. 5 grams 7 grams 5 grams 35 days 2 lbs. in 39 days No. 23 , 11 lbs. 115 c.c. 140 c.c. 16 grams 15 grams 6 *5 grams 14 days 1 lb. in 34 days No. 24 , 15 lbs. 130 c.c. 128 c.c. 16 grams 14 grams 10 grams 16 days 1 lb. in 21 days Dr. J. Rose Bradfo : 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
From this tabular statement of the results in five cases it will b seen that , as stated above , the results of the operation are trifling when we consider its severity .
In one case , No. 16 , the output of urea was increased from 7 to 10 grams per diem .
In this case the ingesta were not determined , and the apparent increase may have been due to an increased diet .
In No. 22 the diet was the same before and after the operation , but there is an increase in the urine and urea after the operation .
This case is quoted because it illustrates the maximum effect produced ; in no other case was so great an effect observed .
In the other cases the effects on the urine , \amp ; c. , are so Blight as to be well within the limits of experimental errors .
The loss in body weight is trifling when compared with that described below as resulting from the second operation .
The greatest loss observed was in Dog 22 , where the body weight fell from 14 lbs. to 12 lbs. The specific gravity of the urine is not permanently affected by the operation .
In the first few days after the operation , whilst there is hsematuria , the urine is frequently more abundant in quantity and the specific gravity then is temporarily lowered , but this soon passes off , and the urine returns to its normal quantity and density .
The Results following the Second Operation .
The results following the removal of the second kidney differ widely from those described above as following the first operation , in that there are frequently no immediate ill effects , the animal running about , \amp ; c. , within a few hours of the nephrectomy , and there is but little shock , haemorrhage , \amp ; c. , when compared with the first operation .
The remote effects , however , are very marked : a widespread disturbance of nutrition ensues , accompanied by extreme wasting , hydruria , and polyuria , and with these a fall in the body temperature and a great increase in the nitrogenous extractions of the tissues , provided a sufficiently large amount of kidney has been removed at the first operation .
In all cases the wound has healed up rapidly and soundly , and in no case has death resulted directly from the operation .
Out of the fifteen experiments , the first was killed five days after the second operation , and at that time the animal was in sound health .
In four cases , No. 2 , No. 11 , No. 19 , and No. 21 , the animals were killed 47 days , 60 days , 14 days , and 30 days respectively after the second operation , and the results observed in them will be described below ( vide Table IV ) .
In the remaining ten cases the dogs either died of a rapidly progressive asthenia , or else they were killed at a time when they were practically moribund .
The results in four cases out of the ten are given in the following table:\#151 ; \#187 ; 00 o Table II .
Weight of dog .
Daily quantity of urine .
Daily quantity of urea .
Weight of kidney removed at 1st operation .
Weight of 2nd kidney also removed .
Weight of kidney found post mortem .
Amount of kidney removed expressed as a fraction of total kidney weight .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
No. 6 , 11 lbs. 127 e.c. 270 c.c. 4*5 grams 10 #2 grams 7 *4 grams 24*4 grams 10 *5 grams 3 .
No. 9 , 15 lbs. 260 c.c. 450 c.c. 9 grams 16 *8 grams 6 '7 grams 27 grams 12 grams i No. 12 , 19 lbs. 157 c.c. 458 c.c. 8 *6 grams 13 '6 grams 8 grams 30 grams 12 grams j No. 23 , 11 lbs. 115 c.c. 550 c.c. 16 grams 21 grams 6 *5 grams 22 grams 10 grams f Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 3 , 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on .
31 From this table it will be seen that the second operation is followed by a great increase in the amount of urine excreted , and also by a large increase in the output of urea .
The increase in the urinary water , however , is greater than the increase in the urea , although the latter , as seen above , is greatly augmented .
This condition of polyuria is accompanied by great wasting .
Thus the weight of Dog No. 6 fell from 11 lbs. to 8 lbs. in 50 days .
" " No. 9 " 15 " 10 " 18 " " " No. 12 " 19 " 12 " 15 " " " No. 23 " 11 " 7 " 25 " This wasting is rapid in its course , and is not materially checked by a liberal diet , when the animal 's appetite will admit of it .
The appetite frequently fails somewhat , but the animals will eat meat in large quantities to within a short time of their death , although they refuse dog biscuit .
There is also great thirst , and this , no doubt , is in close relation with the hydruria .
When the polyuria is fully established , the rectal temperature falls , so that ultimately it may be as low as 97 ' F. , or even 95 ' F. , the normal temperature varying between 101 ' F. and 102 ' F. This condition of polyuria leads to a more or less rapid death ; all the animals in Table II either died , or were killed because moribund , in from two to six weeks after the second operation .
The following table gives the results in the remaining six cases out of the ten rapidly fatal cases :\#151 ; CO to Table III .
Weight of dog .
Daily quantity of urine .
Daily quantity of urea .
Weight of kidney removed at 1st operation .
Weight of 2nd kidney also removed .
Weight of kidney found post mortem .
Amount of kidney removed expressed as a fraction of total kidney weight .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
No. 3 , not observed not observed 381 c.c. not observed 11 grams 15 grams 28 '4 grams 15 grams A No. 4 , 16 lbs. not observed 230 c.c. not observed not observed 10 *4 grams 25 *5 grams 13 *6 grams 3 .
No. 5 , not observed 225 c.c. 330 c.c. 9 grams more than 8 grams 6 *4 grams 19 grams 5 *5 grams A No. 14 , 14 lbs. 187 c.c. 393 c.c. 11 *6 grams 11 *4 grams 8 grams 19 *5 grams 8 *2 grams A. No. 22 , 14 lbs. 86 c.c. 150 c.c. 5 grams 5 *5 grams 5 grams 18*5 grams 10 grams | NTo .
28 , 13 lbs. 92 c.c. 311 c.c. 9 grams 8 grams 10 grams ( about ) 23 grams 7*8 grams oo Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
In all these cases it is seen that the amount of urine excreted after the second operation is very large , and in all the cases where the amount of urine was also determined before the operation it is found that the latter daily quantity is far less .
In only four out of the six cases was the daily output of urea investigated both before and after the operation .
In Dog No. 5 the urea was apparently decreased in amount , but in reality it must have been greatly increased , as , owing to a mistake and absence from the laboratory , the urines , after the operation , were put aside for several days , and only tested when putrefaction had taken place ; hence the real amount was probably far greater than 8 grams .
In the other three cases , the output of urea was either slightly diminished or slightly increased ; this result is of considerable interest from the fact that these dogs ate little or nothing after the operation .
Thus , No. 22 passed 5 grams of urea daily with a diet of 230 grams of dog biscuit ; after the operation 5*5 grams of urea were excreted , but no food was taken , the animal refusing to eat the biscuit .
In No. 28 , 9 grams of urea were excreted per diem with 100 grams of meat and 100 grams of biscuit daily ; after the operation 8 grams of urea , with the ingesta diminished to 40 grams of meat and 20 grams of biscuit daily .
Similarly , in No. 14 , a liberal allowance of meat and biscuit were given and eaten before the operation , but after only small quantities of meat were eaten , and often none at all .
The comparatively small quantity of urea excreted in these cases , when compared to the instances given in Table II , is not dependent upon any inability on the part of the fragment of kidney left to excrete urea .
This is well shown by the following observation on No. 22 .
This dog , as just mentioned , excreted only 5'5 grams of urea per diem with no ingesta ; but , on a diet of 200 grams of meat , the daily output of urea rose immediately to an average of 15 grams , and on some days as much as 19 grams were excreted by a fragment of kidney found on post-mortem examination to weigh only 10 grams .
Hence , even in the cases where the urea is not absolutely largely increased , it is really increased when we remember that the ingesta are greatly diminished , and that the dog may pass as much , or even more , urea during a whole week with no food as the animal previously passed on a fall diet , e.ff .
, No. 22 .
In all six cases described in Table II the operation was followed by death in from one to four weeks .
It is to be noted that in all the ten cases summarised in Tables II and III , the total amount of kidney substance removed amounted to some three-fourths or more of the total kidney weight , with one exception , where only two-thirds was removed .
In all these ten cases there were emaciation , hydruria , and polyuria , absolute or relative .
VOL. LI .
D Table IVWeight of dog .
Daily quantity of urine .
Daily quantity of urea .
Weight of kidney removed at 1st operation .
Weight of second kidney , also removed .
Weight of kidney found post mortem .
Amount of kidney removed expressed as a fraction of total kidney weight .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
Before 2nd operation .
After 2nd operation .
No. 2 , 21 lbs. Not observed 342 c.c. Not observed 15 grams 10 grams 42 grams 28 *5 grams i No. 11 , 14 lbs. 132 c.c. 313 c.c. 10 grams 12*5 grams 8 grams 25*4 grams 18 grams No. 19,13-5 lbs. 140 c.c. 288 c.c. 9 grams 10 grams 5 *7 grams 26 *2 grams 14 grams | No. 21 , 12 lbs. 113 c.c. 200 c.c. 9 grams 7 *5 grams 7 grams 22 grams 16 grams a Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 3 , 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metabolism .
In the remaining four dogs described in Table IV the amount of kidney removed was slightly less , and , as the table shows , the results are different to those described in the ten rapidly fatal cases .
In none of these cases was the operation fatal , and , as previously mentioned , the animals were killed 47 days , 60 days , 14 days , and 30 days respectively after the second operation .
In no case was there any great emaciation , the greatest loss of weight being in No. 11 , where the body weight fell from 14 lbs. to 12 lbs. In all cases there was marked hydrnria , but the polyuria was slight or absent , notwithstanding the fact that there was no failure of appetite .
Thus these four experiments are in great contrast to the other ten , where a larger amount of kidney was removed with a uniformly fatal result .
It is clear from these results that the increased flow of urine is not dependent simply upon any increased excretion of urea , since the former may exist without the latter .
In no case , however , has an increased excretion of urea been obtained without an increase in the quantity of urine. .
In no case amongst the ten fatal ones ( where three-fourths of the total kidney weight was removed ) has the operation been followed by a diminution in the output of urea , provided the ingesta were not diminished .
We may then form the following conclusion , that when a dog is left with only one-fourth of its total kidney weight , a condition of extreme hydruria invariably results .
This hydruria is accompanied , provided the appetite does not fail , by a large increase in the output of urea .
Further , that if the ingesta are diminished even to zero , the output of urea remains at the height it reached with a diet sufficient to maintain the weight of the animal when in a normal condition .
That the hydruria , although associated with an increased excretion of urea , is not dependent upon it , is shown not only by the fact mentioned above , that by removal of a smaller amount of kidney hydruria pure and simple is produced , but also by the fact that when both hydruria and polyuria are produced they do not begin simultaneously .
In other words , when hydruria and polyuria are both ultimately produced by removal of three-fourths of the total kidney weight , the hydruria precedes the polyuria .
To illustrate this , it will be sufficient to quote one experiment , i.e. , No. 23 .
After the first operation , when 6 5 grams of the left kidney were removed , the dog passed 140 c.c. of urine containing 15 grams of urea per diem , with a diet of 150 grams of meat .
On increasing the food to 200 grams of meat per diem , the urine rose to 212 c.c. , containing 17 grams of urea .
The second kidney , weighing 22 grams , was then removed .
In the week following the operation the ingesta fell to 120 grams , and the urea to 13 grams per diem , the urine rising to 380 c.c. In the second week Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 3 , the appetite was regained , the ingesta returned to 200 grams , the urea rose to 16 grams , and the urine to 480 c.c. In the third week the ingesta were 140 grams , the urea rose to 21 grams per diem , and the urine to 550 e.c. ; the animal was then killed , being weak , the body weight having fallen from 11 lbs. to 7 lbs. This experiment illustrates the two stages the animals pass through , the first one where the normal output of urea is maintained , but the method of its excretion is altered , so that the quantity of u r in ary water is greatly increased .
The second stage is one where the qaantity of urine is still further increased , with a more or less sudden increase in the urea , accompanied by emaciation , \amp ; c. By the removal of very large quantities of kidney substance these two results are obtained almost together , but even then , for a day or two after the second operation , hydruria only is present .
When , however , a smaller quantity of kidney is removed the condition called here the first stage is the only one produced , and this condition of simple hydruria is very permanent , as the experiments quoted in Table IY demonstrate .
My observations do not show whether this stage of hydruria can be prolonged indefinitely , but they show that the second stage , polyuria , emaciation , is comparatively sudden in its onset , and rapid in its course .
Character of the Urine.\#151 ; The urine passed after the second operation contrasts greatly with the normal urine of the dog , inasmuch as it is very pale , abundant , and of low specific gravity , i.e. , from 1007 to 1020 ; whereas the normal urine is dark in colour , and its specific gravity is often as high as 1050 or even 1060 , and it is scanty in amount .
The urine after the second operation contains neither albumen nor sugar .
The percentage of solid matter is of course less than normal , but the total solids are not diminished in amount .
The ash also is not diminished ; but more detailed observations on these points are at present in progress .
With regard to other symptoms of the disorder produced by the operation , it is to be noted that convulsions are absent .
Vomiting is rare ; it has only been observed once or twice .
Diarrhoea is frequently present towards the end , and small ulcers and sores occur about the lips and feet , possibly of traumatic origin .
During the last twenty-four or forty-eight hours of life the flow of urine diminishes greatly , so that usually the animals have been killed whilst the polyuria , \amp ; c. , was at its height , so as not to vitiate the analysis of the tissues .
Thus the final symptoms are great prostration of strength and some drowsiness , together with the great fall in the temperature ; the last , however , begins as soon as the polyuria is marked , and hence is present for many days before death .
The aortic blood pressure , measured by connecting the carotid artery to a mercurial manometer , is very high when the marasmic condition of the animal is considered .
In three cases observed it 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on Metaholism .
has varied between 95 and 100 mm. Hg , the animal being under the influence of chloroform , that is to say , the blood pressure was as high as it frequently is in normal and healthy chloroformed dogs .
This height of the blood pressure is in great contrast to the blood pressure in dogs after double nephrectomy , where even on the third day the blood pressure has sunk to a few millimetres of mercury .
Hence the arterial tension is raised when the animal has but ^rd to \#163 ; th of its total kidney weight .
Post-mortem Examination.\#151 ; The animals are greatly emaciated , but usually some fat remains , especially the omental fat .
No marked naked-eye changes have been detected , except a marked excess of cerebro-spinal fluid in the cranial cavity .
No obvious change was found in the heart or vessels .
The abdominal viscera have been found rather soft and sticky , but no other evidence of septic poisoning or of auto-infection has been found .
The kidney fragment has never been found hypertrophied ; more frequently distinctly atrophied , the weight of the fragment found post mortem plus the weight of the piece removed being generally less than the weight of the opposite kidney .
This is in opposition to the results of a French observer.* He , however , removed at the first operation the entire kidney , and then subsequently removed pieces of the second kidney , which had , as is well known , nndergone a so-called compensatory hypertrophy .
Under these circumstances Tuffier states that the fragment hypertrophies considerably .
Whether the atrophy observed by me is dependent upon the part of the kidney removed , I trust to elucidate by further observations now in progress .
Nitrogenous Extractives of the Blood and Tissues.\#151 ; The animals , after being anaesthetised with chloroform , were bled to death .
50 c.c. of blood were placed in an excess of rectified alcohol and 50 grams of muscle , liver , brain were similarly treated after being finely divided .
After prolonged extraction , the filtrate is then evaporated to dryness over a water-bath , and the dry residue repeatedly extracted with cold absolute alcohol , usually for some hours .
The absolute extract is evaporated to dryness on the water-bath and the residue dissolved in water .
The material insoluble in absolute is also dissolved in water , and thus two watery extracts are obtained which may , for simplicity , be called the absolute and rectified extract ; these are treated as follows:\#151 ; half of each is introduced separately into a Dupre urea apparatus , and the amount of nitrogen evolved by decomposition with sodium hypobromite determined .
In the remaining half of each extract the total nitrogen present was determined by Kjeldahl 's method .
In this manner a control is kept on the hypobromite method , since , if such a body as urea is present , the Dupre and * Tuffier , * Etudes experimentales sir la Chirurgie du Rein , ' Paris , 1889 .
Dr. J. Rose Bradford .
[ Mar. 3 , Kjeldahl determinations should nearly coincide , whereas , if such a body as creatin , \amp ; c. , is present , the one method would yield twice as much nitrogen as the other .
In the present communication only the extractives present in what has been called above the " absolute extract " will be considered , and the results obtained in four experiments are given below .
In two cases , No. 19 and No. 21 , the removal of two-thirds of the kidney weight had produced simple hydruria , and in the other two cases , No. 23 and No. 28 , a more extensive operation had produced polyuria as well .
In 23 , the polyuria was absolute , in 28 relative , the ingesta being diminished in the latter but not in the former .
It is to be distinctly understood that in the following results the extractive is reckoned on urea , because of its solubility in cold alsolute alcohol , and because the amount of nitrogen obtained by the Dupre and Kjeldahl methods respectively practically coincided .
Blood .
Muscle .
Liyer .
Brain .
No. 19 O'065 p.c. 0 " 030 p.c. nil 0"04 p.c. No. 21 0-045 " 0-035 " 0 -024 p.c. 0-03 " No. 23 0-410 " 0-430 " 0-200 " 0-24 " No. 28 0-360 " 0-300 " 0-200 " 0 22 " No. 23 was passing an average of 21 grams of urea per diem at the time of death , and No. 28 au average of 8 grams , although in the latter case 10'6 grams of urea were excreted in the last twenty-four hours of life .
From these results we see that in the case of dogs suffering from the simple hydruria , the amount of " urea " in the blood and tissues is only slightly above the normal .
In the case of the dogs in the second stage , suffering from polyuria , \amp ; c. , the amount of " urea " in the blood and tissues is enormously increased .
Thus , in No. 23 at least twenty times the normal quantity of " urea " was present in the blood , at a time when the animal was still excreting an amount greatly exceeding the normal ( vide Table II ) .
Hence the excess of extractive matter present in the tissues is not dependent on simple retention , but on increased production .
I trust to consider the extractives soluble in rectified alcohol in a future communication , but they also are largely increased in the tissues , but not in the blood .
The specific gravity of the blood serum is lower than normal , sinking frequently to 1025 .
The total solids , the proteids , and the ash of the serum are all diminished in amount , the last falling to O'5 per cent , in many cases .
The disturbance of nutrition with increased production of urea 1892 .
] The Influence of the Kidney on .
39 described above does not follow destruction of the renal plexus , nor does it follow free incision of the kidney with subsequent suturing of the damaged organ .
It is a phenomenon closely connected with the removal of large quantities of kidney , i.e. , half of one kidney and the whole of the second .
Inasmuch as the phenomena do not ensue after the first and more severe operation , but only after the second and comparatively trivial operation , it must be concluded that they are more related to the quantity of kidney removed than to the shock of the operation , or to any reflex disturbance produced by the operation .
The excess of urea in the muscle over that in the liver and brain might be considered as evidence of its production in the muscles .
That this is not necessarily the case is shown by the results of the injection of large quantities of urea into the circulation of normal dogs .
The dogs were anaesthetised with chloroform , the ureters ligatured , and the urea then injected into the external jugular .
After from one to three hours the animals were killed by bleeding , and the tissues examined , as described above .
Dog 's weight .
Amount of urea injected .
Time .
Amount of urea in Blood .
Muscle .
Liver .
Brain .
20 lbs. 10 grams .
2f hours .
0 *11 p.c. 0*08 p.c. .
0*04 p.c. ?
13*5 lbs. 20 grams .
li hours .
0 '25 p.c. 0*35 p.c. 0 22 p.c. 0'2 p.c. From these and other observations , we see that the percentage of urea in the muscles is greater than in the case of the liver and brain after intravenous injection , and that it may exceed that of the blood .
The smaller percentage in the liver is not dependent upon the excretion of urea through the bile duct , because after ligature of the bile duct the percentage in the liver is still lower* than that of the muscles after the intravenous injection of urea .
After ligature of both ureters , and after double nephrectomy , the same distribution of urea is found in the tissues .
In all the following cases the animals were killed three days after the operation .
Jke large quantity of urea present in the muscles under all these different circumstances cannot as yet be regarded as evidence of its direct production in the muscles .
Presents .
[ Mar. 3 , Dag 's weight .
Operation .
Blood .
Muscle .
s Liver .
Brain .
18 lbs. Ligature of ureters 0*3 p.c. 0*22 p.c. 0'18 p.c. F 20 lbs. Ligature of ureters 0*37 p.c. 0'42 p.c. 0*38 p.c. 0*23 p.c. 12 lbs. Double nephrectomy 0*34 p.c. 0'32 p.c. 0*18 p.o. 0'17 p.c. , Finally , in the tissues of patients dying from uraemia consequent on cirrhosis of the kidney , very large quantities of urea have been found by me , and here also the percentage in the muscles has been much higher than in the liver .
This conclusion is based on the examination of the tissues in fourteen cases .
Presents , March 3 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Vol. XL Ho. 95 .
4to .
Baltimore 1892 .
The University .
Kew:\#151 ; Boyal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
No. 60 .
8vo .
London 1891 ; Appendix 2 .
1892 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
La Plata:\#151 ; Museo .
Anales : Materiales para la Historia Fisica y Moral del Continent Sud-Americano .
Part 1 .
Folio .
La 'Plata1890-91 .
The Museum .
London:\#151 ; Anthropological Institute .
Journal .
Yol .
XXI .
No. 3 .
8vo .
London 1892 .
The Institute .
Boyal United Service Institution .
Journal .
Vol. XXXVI .
No. 168 .
8vo .
London 1892 .
The Institution .
Moscow:\#151 ; Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes .
Bulletin .
1891 .
Nos. 2\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Moscoit 1892 .
The Society .
ViennaK .
Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Anzeiger .
Jahrg .
1892 .
No. 5 .
8vo .
Wien .
The Academy .
K.K. Geologische Reichsanstalt .
Verhandlungen .
Jahrg .
1891 .
No. 15\#151 ; 18 .
Jahrg .
1892 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Wien .
The Institute .
Journals .
Astronomische Nachrichten .
Bd .
CXXVIII .
4to .
Kiel 1891 .
The Observatory , Kiel .
Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1885 .
8vo .
Berlin 1891 .
Physikalische Gesellschaft , Berlin

