" Report of Experiments made on the Tides in the Irish Sea ; on the similarity of the Tidal phenomena of the Irish and English Channels ; and on the importance of extending the experiments round the Land's-End and up the English Channel .
" Embodied in a letter to the Hydrographer , by Captain F. W. Beechey , -R.N .
, F.R.S. Communicated by G. B. Airy , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
The author commences by stating , that the set of the tides in the Irish Sea had always been misunderstood , owing to the disposition to associate the turn of the stream with the rise and fall of thewater on the shore .
This misapprehension , in a channel varying so much in its times of high water , could not fail to produce much mischief ; and to this cause may be ascribed , in all probability , a large proportion of the wrecks in Caernarvon Bay .
The present inquiry has dispelled these errors , and has furnished science with some new and interesting facts .
It has shown that , notwithstanding the variety of times of high water , the turn of the stream throughout the north and south Channels occurs at the same hour , and that this time happens to coincide with the times of high and low water at Moricombe Bay , a place remarkable as being the spot where the streams coming round the opposite extremities of Ireland finally unite .
These experiments , taken in connexion with those of the Ordnance made at the suggestion of Professor Airy , show that there are two spots in the Irish Sea , in one of which the stream runs with considerable rapidity , without there being any rise or fall of the water , and in the other the water rises and falls without having any perceptible stream ; that the same stream makes high and low water in different parts of the channel at the same time ; and that during certain portions of the tide , the stream , opposing the wave , runs up an ascent of one foot in three miles , with a velocity of three miles an hour .
The author then enters minutely into the course of the stream ; shows that the point of union of the streams from the opposite channels takes place on a line drawn from Carlingford through Peel in the Isle of Man on to Morecombe Bay ; and concludes his remarks on this part of the subject , by adverting to the great benefit navigation will derive from the present inquiry .
The author then notices a chart of lines of equal range of tide , which has been compiled partly from the ranges published by the Royal Society* , and partly from observations made on the present occasion ; and has annexed a table t , by the aid of which the seaman will be able to compare his soundings taken at any time of the tide with the depths marked upon the Admiralty charts .
Next follows the mention of a feature in the motion of the tidewave , which Captain Beechey thinks has hitherto escaped observation ; viz. that the upper portions of the water fall quicker than the lower , or in other words , that the half-tide level does not coincide with the place of the water at the half-tide interval ; that this difference in the Bristol Channel amounts to as much as four feet+ , and that the law seems to be applicable to all the tides of the Irish Sea ? .
We are next presented with a table ( No. 5 ) exhibiting the various curves assumed by the tide-wave , and with the durations of the ebb and flood at each place .
Having explained these observations in the Irish Sea , the author proceeds to apply to the tides of the English Channel the law which he found to regulate the stream of the Irish Channel , availing himself of the observations of Captain M. White and others for this purpose .
There was no difficulty in adapting the rule in the upper part of the Channel ; but below the contraction of the strait , the apparent discordance was so great , that nothing but a reliance on the general accuracy of the observations prevented the inquiry being abandoned .
It seemed that the streams are operated upon by two great forces , acting in opposition to each other ; viz. that there is a great offing stream setting along the western side of the British Isles , and flowing in opposition to the tides of the Channel above the contraction , turning the stream with greater or less effect as the site is near to , or removed from , the points of influence .
By pursuing this idea , it was immediately seen that the observations in the English Channel respond to it ; and then applying it to the offing of the Irish Sea , and considering that channel to comprise within its limits the Bristol Channel , as the English Channel does the Gulf of St. Malo , it was found that the observations there also fully bear out the idea .
So that there was afterwards but little difficulty in tracing the course of the water , and bringing into order what before appeared to be all confusion .
The author then traces the great similarity of tidal phenomena of the two channels , and proceeds to describe them .
For this purpose he considers the Irish Channel as extending from a line connecting the Land 's End with Cape Clear to the end of its tidal stream , or virtual head of the tide at Peel ; and the English Channel from a line joining the Land 's End and Ushant , to the end of its tidal stream off Dungeness .
With these preliminary lines , he shows that both channels receive their tides from the Atlantic , and that they each flow up until met by counter-streams ; that from the outer limit of the English Channel to the virtual head of its tide the distance is 262 geographical miles ; and in the Irish Channel , from its entrance to the virtual head of its tide , it is 265 miles .
In both channels there is a contraction about midway ; by Cape La Hague in the one , and by St. David 's Head in the other , and at nearly the same distance from the entrance .
In both cases this contraction is the commencement of the regular stream , the time of the movement of which , is regulated by the vertical movement of the water at the virtual head of the channel ; situated in both cases 145 miles above the contraction , and the actual time of this change , or Vulgar Establishment , is the same in both cases .
Below the contraction of the strait , in both cases the stream varies its direction according to the preponderance of force exerted over it by the offing stream .
In both cases , between the contraction and the southern horn of the channel , there is a deep estuary ( the Bristol Channel and the Gulf of St. Malo ) in which the times of high water are nearly the same , and where , in both , the streams , meeting in the channel , pour their waters into these gulfs , and in both raise the tide to the extraordinary elevation of forty-seven feet .
From the Land 's End to the meeting of these streams in one case is seventy-five miles , and in the other the same .
In one channel , at Courtown , a little way above the contraction , and at 150 miles from the entrance , there is little or no rise of the water ; and in the other , about Swanage , at the same distance from the entrance , there is but a small rise of tide also ( five feet at springs ) .
In both cases these spots are the node or hinge of the tide-wave , on either side of which the times of high water are reversed .
And again , near the virtual head of the tide , in both cases there is an increased elevation of the water on the south-east side of the channel of about one-third of the column ; the rise at Liverpool being thirtyone feet , and at Cayeux thirty-four feet .
The author traces a further identity in the progress of the tidewave along the sides of both channels opposite to that of the node .
In the first part of the channel the wave in each travels at about fifty miles per hour ; in the next , just above the node , this rate is brought down to about thirty miles per hour in one , and to sixteen miles in the other ; it then in both becomes accelerated , and attains to about seventy-six miles per hour .
Lastly , the author observes that the node or hinge of the tide , placed by Professor Whewell ( in his papers on the Tides ) in the North Sea , is situated at the same distance nearly from the head of the tide off Dungeness , as the node near Swanage is on the opposite side of it ; and that in the Irish Channel , at the same distance nearly as the node at Courtown is from the head of the tide off Peel , there is a similar spot of no rise recently observed by Captain Robinson .
The author concludes this paper by urging a further investigation of the tidal phenomena of the English Channel , on the ground-of the great advantage navigation , as well as science in general , would derive from such an examination .
Captain Beechey 's letter is illustrated by twelve charts and diagrams , showing the identity and singular phenomena of these two great channels .

