]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
WARREN , Ernest.\mdash ; An ation on the Variability of the Human Skeleton , with espe iat reference to the Naqada Race discovered by Professor FIinders Petrie in his Explorations in Egypt .
Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. Naqada Hace , Variation and Correlation of Parts of Skeleton .
WARREN , Ernest .
Phil. Trans , , 1897 , vol. 18 pp. 136-227 .
Skeleton , Human , Variation and Correlation of Parts values of Parts as Race-characters .
WARREN , Ernefit .
Phi ] .
Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. I85-227 .
[ 135 ] VI .
An Investigation on the riabilitcf of the Skeleton : with reference to the Race discovered by Professor FLINDERS in his Explorations in Egypt .
ERNEST WARREN , B.Sc. Univer , sity College , London .
Commun by W. F. R. WELDON , Received Apri12 , \mdash ; Read June 3 , 1897 .
[ PLATE 22 .
] present investigation was undertaken for the purpose of obtaining some insight into the variability and mutual relationships of certain parts of the human skeleton .
To work at such a problem is only possible under the rarest circumstances , for the material must be at least fairly homogeneous and in far larger quantity than is ordinarily obtainable .
The valuable material with which I worked consisted of an extensive collection of skeletons belonging to the " " New Race The race so-named has recently been discovered by ofessor FLINDERS PETRIE in his explorations in Egypt , and , in his opinion , we have here " " a branch of the same Libyan race that founded the Ammonite power The period ascribed to the New Race ] between 3000 and 4000 In discussing my measurements considered it expedient to some idea of the more obvious ethnological characters which the material exhibited , but it must be dearly understood that this side of the subject was not the primary object of my investigation .
The skeletons were disinterred from an ancient -ground covering a very extensive area , and including several graves .
It was situated in the district between and Naqada , some 30 miles north of Thebes , and on the west side of the Nile .
Each grave had a number assigned to it , and when a skeleton was found therein this number was written on the skull and on all the more important bones .
In some cases remains of more than one skeleton were found in a grave , and then identification of the bones into the respective skeletons sometimes became impossible .
rough the generosity of Mr. A. B. PHIARSON-GEE , the skeletons were carefully 26.4 .
98 packed and brought to England .
On their arrival they were taken to University College , where the various investigations have been carried out .
A series of measure1nents have been made on the skulls by Mr. HERBERT HOMPSON , and some of the results have already been published by Professor PETRIE* and by Professor KARL PEARSON .
In the autumn of 1895 the skeletons were most kindly placed at my disposal by Professor , and I desire to heartily express to him my gratitude for the use of the bones .
I also wish , in this place , to very warmly acknowledge indebtedness to Professor W. F. I WELDON for many valuable suggestions and for encouragement in this laborious undertaking , also to PEARSON and to Professor G. D. for kindly criticism and ever-ready help .
The measurements were taken by means of an osteometrio board , kindly lent for the occasion by Professor STEWAP .
T. This board has two uprights , one is fixed and the other slides over a scale graduated into millimetres .
The bone is held horizontally in position , one end is placed against the fixed upright , and then the sliding upright is brought up against the opposite extremity and the measure is read off the scale .
For certain measurements it was Ilecessary to use two projecting styles fixed to the uprights .
The measurements were recorded to the tenth of a millimetre .
A small series of bones were re-measured on an independent occasion , and it was found that the mean difference between the measurements was only mm. Such a result as this would be scarcely possible with recent hones , for the mere variation in the humidity of the air would produce a greater difference in the measures .
The observations will be dealt with in three separate sections : ( 1 ) the limb bones , ( 2 ) the sacrum , ( 3 ) the scapula ; , we shall give a short summary of results and a few general conclusions . .
We will first describe the various measurements made on the different bones .
1 .
The Fernur .
The length AB ( see fig. 1 in the Piate ) , which is the distance between the most prominent point of the-head and that of the inner is called the maximum length .
The " " length in oblique position " " was measured by placing the condyles flat against the fixed upright .
This gives the effective length with regard to stature ; it is the oblique length .
We may express relation between these two dimensions by finding the angle ABF , which is equal to .
Since the condyles * and Ballas , ' 1895 , p. 51 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 187 ( 1896 ) , p. 2792 WITH ESPECIAL TO THE NAQADA RACE .
are practically horizontal when the knees are cIose together , this angle will depend to a large extent upon the width of the pelvis , and so will be greater in woman than in man .
The of the Neck with the Shaft.\mdash ; If lines are drawn parallel to the axes of the neck and shaft , they will intersect at a point ( fig. 1 ) .
This was done on both the anterior and posterior surfaces of the bone .
The central point ( C ) of the inner surface of the head was readily found , then the length CD was measured .
OD and OC were measured on both sides of the bone and the mean was taken .
It appeared to me that these dimensions were obtained more accurately by this method than if the anterior surface alone were taken .
OC Length of Neck \mdash ; The point is always close to the tubercle on the trochanteric ridge and often actually on it .
Some anatomists measure to the tubercle ; and this measurement is very nearly equivalent to OC .
OD Length of Shafl.\mdash ; The angle DOC , which is the angle of the neck with the shaft , was found by the solution of the triangle DOC .
This angle was detcrmined on 140 femora .
The Angle of Torsion.\mdash ; To measure accurately the real angle of torsion seemed to me excessively difficult .
The angle I measured was the inclination of the neck to the horizon when the bone is held horizontally , with the condyles placed on a flat surface .
This angle certainly closely proportional to the true torsion angle and is not removed from it .
The following was the method employed .
A point ( eee fig. 2 ) was found on the head , such that was parallel to the axis of the neck ; was measured .
The bone was then placed in the position indicated in fig. 3 , and the movable upright was drawn along till the point of the style seen to be vertically above the point .
The eye was placed about 2 feet above the bone .
The distance between the points of the styles was recorded .
Now , the angle , which is equal to the angle which the neck makes with the horizon .
The effect of parallax was the chief source of error in this method , but several measurements were always taken and the determined .
2 .
The The length in the long axis of the bone ; thus , both the spine and the malleolus are included ( fig. 5 ) .
The length FB which is the distance from the centre of the inner condyloid surface to the tip of the malleolus .
The length measured from centre to centre of articular surfaces .
3 .
The The length .
CLXXX1X .
4 .
The Humerus .
length AB ( see fig. 4 ) .
The length FA ; this measure corresponds to the oblique length of the femur .
5 .
The The length in the long axis of the bone AB ( fig. 6 ) .
The distance between the points where the longitudinal axis of the bone cuts the proximal and distal articular surfaces This measure answers to the third on the tibia , and it would appear to give the true functional length of the than the other dimensions . .
The The length in the long axis including the styloid process .
The distance between the centre of the distal articular surface and the point where the longitudinal axis cuts the surface of the olecranon .
7 .
The Ctavide .
The maximum length when the bone is placed on its edge .
THE OF SEx .
This has been a matter of very considerable difficulty , and it will be seen from the tables of measurements that no decided opinion could be expressed in the case of a large number of skeletons .
Professor THANE had made a careful sex-determination on the skulls , subsequently he did the same the hip-bones .
Besides this , every bone , when taken from the packing-case and measured , was noted down as " " male ' female or " " doubtful The several bones of the different skeletons were quite indiscriminately mixed , and so each was pronounced upon independently .
The general form or robustness of the bone , the muscle impressions , \amp ; c. , were taken into account .
On subsequently sorting the measurements into skeletons it was found how far the different determinations agreed .
In a considerable number of cases there were no discrepancies , in other cases there was a quite clearly-marked preponderance of either " " male\ldquo ; or " " female then the skeleton was assigned to the sex possessing the preponderance .
Sometimes the sex remained altogether doubtful .
The sex-determinations having been made in this way from the long-bones , they were compared with those obtained from the skuIls and hip-bones .
* It was found that they agreed very fairly well with the skull determinations but still better with many cases the skeletons having skulls had no long.bones , and vice versed ; similarly with the hip.boues .
WITH ESPECfAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
those from the pelvic-girdle .
Consequently , as the hip-bone is the safest guide to sex , a certain degree of reliance may : I think , be placed on the male and female series which ultimately drawn up .
The sacrum was found to be quite useless in this respect .
THE VARIATION IN LENGTH OF THE In Table I. we have a list of the various measures made on the long-bones .
The bones of the right side were selected , exQept in the case of the ] , where the left bones happened to form the larger series .
The third column gives the arithmetic means of the different dimensions expressed in millimetres .
' The probable errors of the means are given by the formula and a rough estimate of their values may be made by mere inspection .
In the following table I have compared some of the means found for the New Race with the means of the measurements made by Dr. E. the French .
A certain resemblance is seen to exist between them ; the bones hich divergs most are the tibia and radius .
From we might be tempted to believe that the stature of the New Race was not far removed from that of the French ; but the relation which exists between stature and the length of limb will not be dealt with in the present paper .
relative length of the male bone to the female bone is expressed by the " " Sexual Ratio The coefficients of variation are dealt with in a similar manner .
I shall here attempt no comparison of sexual ratios in different races , as this is now being done by Professor PEARSON .
It may however be noticed that the size-ratio appears to be greater in the radius , ulna , and clavicle than in the other bones .
I am indebted to Professor PEARSON for the French numbers .
They were calculated the measurements made by Dr. ROLLmT at the Anatomical Laboratory at Lyons .
" " De la mensuration des os longs des membres Lyons , 1889 .
S Two or three left bones are included here .
ETO MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITA OF THE HUMAN HUMANTOS .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
In the 4th column the constant known as the " " Error of Mean Square\ldquo ; ( AIRY ) , or the " " Standard Deviation\ldquo ; ( PEARSON ) , is given .
This is expressed in millimetres , and was always determined fi.omtht second ' ' moment-coefficien ' of the trapeziasystem and not from the loaded ordinates .
It is an absolute measure of dispersion about the mean .
A relative measure is this is called the ' ' coefficient of variation and has recently been introduced by Professor PEARSON .
These relative measures of variability are given in the 5th column of the table .
The probable error of a standard deviation is given by an approximate formula , and of a coefficient of variation ( v ) by , where number of observations .
A general idea of the values of the probable el.rors may be obtained by inspection , as in the case of the means .
We can now see that the absolute measure of variation , as given by the standal.d deviation , is always greater in the longer bones than in the shorter , and in the male than in the female .
There is no obvious reason why this should be the case ; although , for instance , the tibia is a somewhat shorter bone than the femur , yet the absolute variation in magnitude is not necessarily smaller in the former than in the latter .
although the mean length of the bones of the female is shorter than that of the male , it does not follow the standard deviation should be less .
And does a measure always express the variability of an organ as it affects an individual organism Take , for example , the two femora of a man , if one is a quarter of an inch longer than the other , the percentage variation does not concern him , it is the absolute variation of a quarter of an inch that is of importance .
It thus appears that a ratio-measure of variation does not always express the variability of a dimension as it affects the individual .
With this reservation we will examine the 4th and 5th columns of the table .
It will be seen that the absolute of the bones diminishes as we pass from the femur to the clavicle , that is as the dimension becomes smaller .
Or , in other words , the absolute variation is roughly proportional to the absolute length .
Also it can be observed that the female is considerably less variable than the male .
The ratio-measure of variation , on the other hand , indicates that the femur , tibia , humerus , and radius are ] about equally variable , while the tibia , , and ] ppear to exhibit little , if any difference in this respect between the sexes .
These results would seem to show that the variability of the two sexes , relative to each other , is far from constant in different races .
In the comparative table given above , see that in the French the female is more variable than the male in the tibia , humerus , and radius , while in the New Race there is a distinct reverse tendency .
The present results would appear to confirm Professor generalisation *This ratio is more conveniently expressed as a percentage .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
that " " the more primitive and savage a race the less wili be the variation of both sexes , and the greater will be the approach to of variation between the sexes.\ldquo ; * It will now be best to deal with each bone separately .
THE FEMUR In the very great majority of the femora the linea aspera was strongly marked , indicating great use of the muscles of the posterior part of the thigh .
Frequently the gluteal ridge was very prominent and rugged .
The form of femur known as " " femur pilastre\ldquo ; occurred with considerable frequency .
the linea aspera projects as a strong ridge or column .
Two fairly distinct types were noticed : in the one ( F. in Plate ) a cross section through the middle of the shaft would roughly resemble an isosceles triangle with the two sides htly concave and the base convex ; in the other , which is the commoner form ( F.r. 175 ) , the upper part of the triangle would appear to be replaced by a rectangle and the base would be somewhat more convex .
In the latter type the flat top to the rectangular is much roughened , while in the former this is replaced by a moderately smooth edge .
It is much to be hoped that on some future occasion the transverse and antero-posterior diameters may be measured on all the femora , and then an accurate determination of this character could be made .
At present it is only possible to state that the male series exhibited this form of femur more frequently than the female .
As mauy as 8 per cent. of the male femora , but only 3 per cent. of the female possessed a strongly-marked column , while in 13 per cent. of the men and in 7 per cent. of the women this character was exhibited in a less pronounced form .
To give some idea of these groups I measured five femora , and the " " indices\ldquo ; were 128 , 124 , 123 belonging to the first group , and 119 and 117 to the second group .
The diameters were taken at the middle of the shaft .
Sir WILLIAM TURNER , in describing the bones collected by the Challenger Expedition , remarked that some of the femora , especially those New Zealand , exhibited an antero-posterior compression at the upper end of the shaft .
This condition has been termed " " platymery\ldquo ; by M. , and he has instituted a platyemric index , which resembles the pilastric index , only that the diameters are taken at the sub-thteric section instead of at the middle of the shaft .
I have found that this platymeric condition was conspicuously exhibited in the few femora which had a very low pilastric index , while on the other hand the fenlOl.a which possessed high pilastric indices seldom showed a trace of flattening at the * ' The Chance of Death and other Sbudies in EvoJution , \ldquo ; vol. 1 , p. .
This volume is about to be published .
Antelo diameter Pilastric index \mdash ; Transverse meter upper end of the bone .
This observation confirms MANOUVRIER'S statement that pilastric femora seldom exhibit platymery to any marked degree .
Dr. HEPBURN* has recently determined the platymeric and pilastric on the femora of a number of races , and his results agree in the main with this view , namely , that femora with high pilastric indices exhibit , as a rule , but little Aatymery , while those with low pilastric indices are frequently platymeric to a greater or less degree .
In a few of the femora the antero-posterior diameter at the middle of the shaft was considerably less than the transverse , and so the index was below 100 .
The indices in two cases were : pilastric index , ; platymeric iudex , ( see Plate ; and and respectively .
The surements of the Femur .
Table II .
recol.ds the measurements made on the right femur in the oblique pusition .
In the first and second divisions , headed male and female respectively , the measurements are absolute and are expressed in millimetres .
In the third division the sexes are mixed , but the length of the femur is given in terms of the length of the tibia ( measurement " " \ldquo ; where spin is excluded ) .
When only one tibia was found in the skeleton it was taken as the standard , whether it was a right or left bone ; if both tibiae were present , the mean of the two was taken .
At the bottom of the table are given the various constants to the curves , which were calculated by the method of moments introduced by Professor PEARSON .
S All these constants are expressed in telms of the units which are to be found at the tops of the 1st , 4th and 7th columns pectively .
The centroidposition of arithmetic mean .
second " " moment coefficient Standard Deviation ( PEARSON ) .
Error of Mean Square ( AIRY ) .
third " " moment coefficient fourth " " moment coefficient , and The critical function .
When this expression is positive the theoreticnl curve has an ited ran ge , but when negative the range is limited .
* ' Journal of Anntomy , ' vol. 31 , 1896 .
The bIaoris would seem to form an exceptiou .
In this femul there vras a third trochanter ; its position is indioated in the diagram by tho sign ( ) placed against the protuberance at the S ' Phil. Trans , vol. 186 , 1890 ' , pp. 343-414 .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
TABLE II .
On account of the comparative fewness of observations the values of the constants coming after must be regarded as only very roughly giving some kind of approximation to true values .
Still , it may be , that in the case of the femur all three critical functions are negative , and it will be found with the other bones that a negative value occurs more frequently than a positive one .
From this it would seem that the curves ulting from the measurements of bones to that skew type which has a strictly limited range .
How such a theoretical range has any practical significance remains to be demonstrated , but it would require a much larger series than we have here before the theory could be ittisfactorily applied to the length of bones .
The range , given by the 113 female femora , has , however , been calculated ; it is equal to units , while the observed range is 18 units .
VOL. CLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. In the accompanying diagram , the frequency polygons are drawn .
They all exhibit a marked double-humped character .
* The number of observations is too small for us to feel any certainty as to the meaning of this .
Perhaps it is a mere accident , or it may indicate that we have here two races , or a slight admixture of the sexes .
If we compare these polygons with those given by the tibiae , we shall see that the latter exhibit the double peak less strongly than do the former , while in the case of the bumerus and of the radius , this character seems to have nearly disappeared .
This favours the view that the double peak is merely accidentaL It must be observed , however , that in two closely allied races , the femora might differ in length more perceptibly than the other bones , and so such a comparison is scarcely conclusive as to the homogeneous nature of the material .
It may be remarked here , that most of the curves exhibit a distinct tailing off on the positive side of the centroid , the slope of the curve being steeper on the negative side .
We have above seen that the polygons show a marked tendency to confonn to skew curves of limited range , and we may conclude that this range is greater on the positive than on the negative side of the mean , or , in other words , that there is greater abnormality among long than among short bones .
On referring to Table I. , it will be seen that the word ' ' pairs\ldquo ; is aCed at the head of the right half division .
By a " " pair\ldquo ; we mean the right and left bones of the same skeleton .
In 47 pairs of male femora , the mean of the right bones was millims. lower than the mean of the left , and in 66 female femora it was millims. lower .
The relation which was observed between the two sides is shown in the following scheme:\mdash ; $ The ratio.curve , we should expect , would give some signs of its compound nature , for the femur , in proportion to the tibia , is slightly shortor in man than in woman , us we shall see later on .
These means were found by direct addition and division , and not from the oentroid of the polygon in hich the measurements were grouped .
With such a few observations , a slight difference would be expected to occur .
I have omitted a doublful pair here , No. 874 .
It was ineluded iu Table I. S These nnmbers were obtained by using the bones , whether they differed from one another by than 1 millim. or not .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
These results are similar to those obtained by Dr. J. G. GARSON , some years ago investigated the subject of ' ' side\ldquo ; on a series of ?
0 femora and tibiae beIonging different races and to both sexes .
Out of his 70 pairs of femora , the right and Diagram I. left bones differed from one another by less than 1 millim. in 9 cases per cent while in 20 cases ( per cent. ) the right was greater than the left , and in 41 cases ' Jonrnal of Anatorny , ' vol. 18 , 1879 .
MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN SKELETON , ( per cent. ) the left was greater than the right .
It was also noticed , that when the right bone was greater than the left , the difference between them ( average preponderance millims. ) was as a rule somewhat less than when the lefb was greater than the right ( average preponderance millims A similar tendency can be in the present results .
An examination of the above table would appear to show that the difference between the means of the two sides was rather greater in woman than in man , and from this we should anticipate that there would be fewer cases in which the left bone was shorter than the right , and such we find actually occurs .
The standard deviations and the coefficients of variation appear to indicate no constant difference between the variability of the bones of the right and left side .
The Length of the " " \ldquo ; of the Femur .
This dimension was measured from the ( see Plate 22 , fig. 1 ) to the point where the axis of the neck intersects the surface of the head .
The latter point was always situated a short distance above the fossa for the interarticular ligament .
The measurements were expressed in terms of the maximum length of the femur ( AB ) , and also in terms of the length of the shaft ( OD ) .
The results are given in Table .
The constants thus found show that the length of the neck head in proportion to the length of the femur is greater in the male than in the female ; also , according to both absolute and ratio-measures of.variability , man would appear to be more variable than woman in this respect .
To ascertain the relationship between this length and the ctive length of the femur ( oblique length ) , a correlation was instituted between the two dimensions .
Table IV .
gives the means and variation constants of the pair of dimensions for each sex .
The\ldquo ; \ldquo ; to the right of the table is the " " coefficient of correlation This fraction expresses the relationship between the parts such that If X average deviation of neck head associated with a known mean deviation of a group of femora ; this known mean deviation of the femorn ; absolute measure of the variability of neck head ; similar measure of variation of the femur ; then .
Therefore A. is called the " " Coefficient of Regression These coefficients of correlation ( otherwise known as GALTON'S Functionsweredetermined by means of the formula used by Professor FEARSON , * * Phil. Trans 1896 , pp. 253-318 .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCB TO THE NAQADA RACE .
2 deviation of A from its mean deviation of from its mean where number of observations , and are the standard deviations of the dimensions A and respectively .
The probable errors of the coefficients were calculated from the forlllula , 0 .
ABLE III .
TABLE IV .
The coefficients of correlation which have been obtained for the above-mentioned pair of dimensions are fairly high , showing that the length of the neck head varies simultaneously and more or less proportionally to the variations in the oblique length of the femur .
Other things being equal , an increase in the length of neck head must necessarily increase the oblique length of the femur , and so from the nature of the case a certain amount of correlation must occur .
But since the probable error of this dimension is very small in comparison with that of the whole length of the femur , this incidental correlation cannot be large .
It may be stated , then , that most of the correlation which has been detected is due to the relation which exists ween the variation in the length of the neck head and that of the shaft of the femur .
What was required to be known in the present case was how the deviations in the length of the neck head are associated with deviations in the effective length of the femur , and under this aspect of the problem the different causes producing the correlation do not concern us .
Man is perhaps slightly more correlated in this respect woman , but since the probable errors of the coefficients are so considerable , we can feel no confidence in the difference which is shown .
The Angle of the Neck with the Shaft .
This ang.le was measured by the method previously described ; the results are summed up in the left half of Table V. The mean angle is higher in the female than in the male ; also the constants of variation appear to be greater in the former than in the latter .
Table VL gives the coefficients of correlation between the angle of neck and the proportional length of head neck to maximum length of femur .
We see that the correlation is negative , indicating that a fomur having a proportionally short neck and head will , as a rule , possess a somewhat high angle .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
151 TABLE VI .
Professor has stated that this angle " " is smaller in short bones than in long bones and " " in women than in men My measurements do not seem to confirm this conclusion , and it is not clear how the method of measurement would account for the disagreement .
We have previously seen that women possess a short neck head in proportion to the maximum length of the femur , and we now see that in both sexes such a condition tends to be associated with a high angle .
In conformity with this , the mean angle in woman might be expected to be slightly higher than in man , and this is what we find in the present measurements .
Dr. JOHANN MIKULICZt has measured the angle of the neck on 100 femora from the Vienna hospitals .
He gives the mean angle as lying between and l26o , but the sexes are mixed .
This is practically identical with the.mean of Table V. The table which MIKULICZ publishes shows very little correlation between the length of the inferior extremity and the angle of the neck , and in the case of the New Race the correlation is very slight , but apparently positive .
With regard to sex differences , nothing that is really satisfactory can be deduced from his measurements .
I do not think from the data which are at present available that it can be safely concluded that this angle in Europeans is as a rule smaller in women than in men .
The Angle of Torsion .
The method of measurement has already been described .
The true angle of torsion is given by the angle which the axis of the neck makes with the transverse axis of the lower extremity of the bone .
The angle which was measuled is the angle that the axis of the neck makes with the vertical plane touching the posterior surfaces of the condyles when the bone is held upright .
This plane , however , is nearly parallel lo the transverse axis .
The measurements are given in the right-band division of Table .
The mean of the female series is higher than that of the nale .
MIKULICZ has measured the angle of torsion in 120 European femora ; although his method of measurement * Journal of Anatomy , ' vol. 23 , 1889 .
'Archiv fur Anatomy , ' 1878 .
WITH ESPECIAL ]EFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
1.53 differs from mine , yet our results are comparable .
The mean angle of his series is .
In 10 cases the angle of MIKULICZ'S series was negative , that is , the neck turned posteriorly instead of anteriorly .
In my series only one negative angle was found , and that was in a left femur ; the measurements I have recorded are those of the right femur .
The table which MIKULICZ gives a range from to ( sexes mixed ) , while my series ranged in the male from to , and in the female from to .
It will be seen from these figures that the torsion of the in Europeans is very considerably less than in the New Race .
We may hence conclude that the torsion-angle in the femur differs in different races .
The Relation between the Oblique of Femur .
The ratio of the maximum length ( OB ) to the oblique length will give the secant to the angle which the condyles make with the horizontal plane when the bone is held vertically in the " " maximum position This angle is equal to the angle of deflection of the OB from the vertical when the bone is placed in the " " oblique position From Table VII .
we see that the angle is larger in the female than the male .
Now , there is apparently no correlation between this angle and the length of the femur ( see Table VIII .
) ; consequently it would seem thal other things being equal , the size of the angle depends upon the width of the pelvis .
We have previously seen femora tend to have a proportionally long neck and head ( NH ) , hence , in tall persons this angle is not necessarily altered , since the shaft of the bone is thrown a little further ontwards by the increase in the dimension HN .
From these considerations it appears highly probable that a fairly strong correlation would be found to exist between this angle and a suitable breadthmeasurement of the pelvis , such as the distance between the centres of the acetabula .
The coefficients thus obtained might be of very great service in determining the breadth of the pelvis of prehistoric peoples by means of their femora .
VOL. CLXXXIX .
X TABLE VII .
TABLE VIII .
Correlation between angle of condyles and maximum length of R. femur .
Bone THE TIBIA .
In Table I. are given the means of the different measurements made on the tibia .
With regard to the standard deviations it may be noticed that the maximum length is the most variable dimension in both the male and female , while the distance from centre to c.entre of articular surfaces would appear to be the least WITH ]CIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
variable .
Reference to the coefficients of variation shows us that the variability is roughly proportional to the length of the dimension ; and this is what we found in the case of the different bones , ] , that the a bone the greater , as a general rule , is the absolute variation which it exhibits .
We vow find that the same law holds with respect to different parts of the same bone .
Among the tibiae some typical examples of the condition known as platycnemia occurred Plate .
It was well arked in per cent. of the male series and in per cent. of the female , and so , like the ] astric femur , it is less frequent in woman than in man .
To give some notion of these groups , I obtained four platycnemic indices ; * they were 50 , , 59 , 64 .
Although it is impossible by mere inspection to give a trustworthy account of this character , yet it may be stated that a platycnemic tibia was frequently associated with a more or less pilastric femur .
Thus , in the same skeleton , there seems to be some correlation between the tibia and femur in this respect .
It would be very desirable if the pilastric and platycnemic indices were found for all the couples of these two bones , for then the coefficient of correlation between -he two series of indices would accurately measure the relationship which exists between these two conditions in the same skeleton .
Many of the tibiae , and especially the platycnemic ones , exhibited a very marked curvature of the upper end , such that , when the shaft of the bone was held vertically , the upper part was obviously bent iorly .
M. PAUL BROCA originally considered that platycnemia was a sign of degeneration , but he held that the possession of a pilastric femur was a character of superiority .
Professol MANOUVRIER has since pointed out that there are certain differences between the platycnemia in man and that in the anthropoid apes , as exhibited in the gorilla .
Platycnemia is due to the antero-posterior expansion of the bone , especially behind the interosseous ridge , and concurrently the posterior surface may disappear .
Over the expansion spreads the attachment of the tibialis posticus muscle .
In some of the tibiae of the New Race the surface of attachment of the tibialis anticus was very markedly hollowed out .
In the platycnemia of the gorilla both the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum are inserted on the outer side of the expansion ; while in the platycnemia of man the latter muscle comes to be inserted on the inner surface , being pushed round , so to speak , by the great lsion of the area of attachment of the tibialis posticus .
Plate A careful examination of the tibiae of the New Race confirmed this view , and the connection between the antero-posterior extension of the tibia and that of the femur in the same skeleton would seem to demonstrate that both characters are due to $ PIatycnemic index measured at the level of the itive foramen .
'Mem .
de la Soc. d'Anthropologie de Paris , ' vol. 3 , 1888 .
156 MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABIbITY OF THE HUMAN SKELETON , similar and that the platycnemia , as ordinarily exhibited in man , is not a to a simian character , for the pilastric femur is essentially human .
Here , then , we appear to have a character which is produced by the direct action of use , and probably any hardy race of hunters would exhibit the flattening to a greater or less degree .
A assumes its platycnemic form only afcer puberty , and it would be exceedingly interesting to know whether this character , which seems to be purely " " acquired could be inherited .
Some years ago , Mr. ARTHUR THOMSON* drew attention to the fact that in ] many savage races a facet could be found upon the anterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia with the .
He also noticed that , in the tibiae exhibiting these facets , the external condyloid surface was frequently flattened , or even convex .
These characters he attributed to a frequently-assumed squatting posture .
In the lJaj ority of the tibiae of the New Race this could be detected , also , in the same bones the outer condyloid surfaces were often convex , instead of being slightly concave .
We may hence conclude that " " squatting\ldquo ; was the habitual custom of the New Race .
As it has been above remarked , many of the tibiae exhibited a strong backward curvature of the upper extremity .
Professor MANOUVRIER has pointed out that such a curvature would serve to increase the resistance to an anterior sliding of the of the femur in flexion of ] .
MANOUVRIER is inclined to attribute this curvature to the same causes as those producing platycnemia , and my observations are in accordance with his view , in that the platycnemic tibiae were generally greatly bent .
I could trace no connection between this bending and the presence of facets or of the convexity of the outer condyloid surface , for sometimes there was a strong curvature , but no facets could be distinguished , while on the other hand , nearly straight tibiae often exhibited both facets and convexity of the surface .
The Length-Measurements of the The surements which were made on the right tibiae are recorded iu Table IX .
Tn the division to the right the sexes are mixed , bub the measurements are expressed in terms of the maximum length of the femur .
The frequency polygons are shown in Diagram II .
Considering the fewness of observations they are fairly regular .
The dispersion about the mean is clearly asymmetrical , and consequently nothing but some form of skew curve would fit our frequency curve .
The critical function of the curve obtained from the absolute measures is negative in both sexes , and so a limited range is indicated In the case of the 115 female tibiae , the theoretical range is 26 .
units , while the observed range is 15 units* * ' Journal of Anatomy .
' vol. 23 , 1839 .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
The following observations have been made on the relative lengths of the right and left tibiae of the same skelet.on .
In the male " " pairs " " the mean of the right bones was millim. lower than the mean of the left , and in the female series it was millim. lower:\mdash ; centretocentre)SeSx.enceR dbones wsbonesof hrage pscentage.greaterthe Resthan .
* See the notes which are referred to in the similar table of the femur .
Diagram II .
The above curves are reduced to the same area by adjusting the vertioal scale .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
Here , as in the case of the femur when the right bone was longer than the left , the difference tends to be somewhat less than when the left was greater than the right .
Also the difference between the means of the right and left bones was greater in woman than in man .
We have previously seen that the difference between the means of the right and left femur was millim. in the male and millim. in the female .
Hence we find that in the New Race the mean excess of L. femur .
tibia over R. femur .
tibia was in the male about millim. , and in the female about millims. Dr. GARSON stated that in his 70 skeletons the average preponderance of the left limb over the right was millim. Also , from certain measurements given by Sir WILLIAN TURNER , it would seem probable that considerable differences exist among races as regards the mean length of the bones on the two sides of the body .
THE FIBULA .
The maximum length of the bone was taken .
Among the fibulae 3 per cent. were excessively flattened or channelled out laterally by deep longitudinal grooves , and per cent. exhibited this character to a somewhat less degree .
As we should have expected , the flattening of the fibula was related to the platycnemia of the tibia , so that a platycnemic tibia was frequently associated with a more or less channelled fibula .
Like the tibia , the left fibula is longer than the right .
THE HUMERUS .
Both the maximum and the oblique lengths were measured on this bone .
The means of the measurements are given in Table I. Perforation of the septum between the coronoid and olecranon fossae occurred with remarkable frequency .
In some cases the septum had obviously been broken , occasionally it was not easy to be sure whether the perforation was real or had been accidentally produced .
Whenever any doubt existed on this head the humerus was excluded from the following statistics : ighthumeri whichN NagPer Neumer which P An examination of these figures will show that perforation occurs more frequently in the female than in the male , and on the left side than on the right .
From observations on the elbow-joint , it appeared to me that perforation is largely dependent upon the relative sizes of the o]ecranon and the olecranon fossa .
When the parts were of such a size that on extension of the forearm the beak of the great sigmoid cavity came into contact with the septum , then that septum was generally perforated .
greater frequency of perforation in the female may , perhaps , be due to two causes ; ( 1 ) the humerus is less robust , and , consequently , the septum is thinner and more readily perforated ; ( 2 ) and possibly the olecranon is relatively somewhat smaller in woman than in man , for a very slight relative decrease in the size of the olecranon would have a great effect in bringing the beak into contact with the septum .
I believe that the perforation occurring more frequently on the left side than on the right is due to this latter influence , for the left olecranon is probably what shorter than the right , because the total length of the left ulna is very appreciably shorter , and it vrould seem feasible to suppose that the length of the olecranon would be proportional to the total length of the bone .
The strong anterior curvature of the proximal end of the nlna would also help to brin the beak of the olecranon against the septum , and this might perhaps partially account for the incurved ulna and perforated humerus occurring together in certain races .
* Dr. PAUL TOPINARD has given the following statistics:\mdash ; Perforated .
156 humeri from dolmens around Paris of the Polished Stone Period . . . .
per cent. 30 humeri of the Yellow Races of America 200 humeri of Parisians of century 218 humeri of Parisians of Middle Ages In Negroes perforation occurs in about 21 per cent. On comparing these percentages with those obtained from the New Race we see that the latter are very exceptionally high .
The , Length-Measurements of the Humerus .
Some of the results of the different measurements are given in Table X. In the fourth division of the table the sexes are mixed , but the measurements are essed in thousandths of the tibia .
It may be noticed that the humerus in the oblique position seems to be slightly less variable than when the maximum length is taken ( see Table I The distributions of deviations about the mean are exhibited to the eye in Diagram * How far such an explanation would apply to anthropoid apes I am not prepared to state .
In a Chimpanzee skeleton I examined , both humeri were perforated , but the beak oi the olecranon appeared quite incapable of touching the septum .
'Elements d'Antbropologie Generale , ' Paris , 1885 .
See Si .
WILLIAM TUENER'S Memoir in the ' Challenger Reports , ' vol. 16 .
WITH ESPECIAL REEFERENC TO THE NAQADA RACE .
VOL. CLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. Diagram III .
The above curves are } reduced to the same aroa by adjusting the vertical scale .
In the scheme below are given the relations which were observed between the humeri of the right and sides in " " pairs\ldquo ; of bones .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCh THE NAQADA RACE .
Here we notice , as in the femul and tibia , that the difference between the means of the right and left bones was greater in woman than in man .
The bones of the superior extremity were longer on the right side than on the left , while with those of the inferior extremity we have found that the left were longer than the right .
The Between the Maximum and Oblique Lengths the Hurne , ws .
The oblique length of the humerus is analogous to that of the femur , and the .
relation between .
it and the maximum lsngth may be expressed as before by deteroutside of this .
lated with the oblique than with the maximum length .
Let us consider the articulations along CC If the inner margin of the trochlea , * , be supposed to become a little more prominent , then the oblique length will be shorter .
Other things being equal , the humerus will be thrown further outwards and the capitellum will approach the head of the radius , which bone will consequently have to be somewhat shorter if is to be free play for the supination of the hand .
In Table XI .
are recorded the angles which were for the male and female series .
The mean of the male series is nearly a degree higher than that of the female , and considering the probable error of the mean , the difference would appear to indicate that this angle is slightly larger in man than in woman .
degree of prominence of the inner edge of is apparently much more variable than that of the globular capitellum .
MR. L. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF TH HUMAN SKELETON , TABLE XI .
TABLE XII .
The angle of obliqnity in " " pairs\ldquo ; of humeri .
The angles for the right and left humeri of the same skeleton are generally similar to each other .
There is no appre , ciable difference between the means of the two sides .
Out of 33 male pairs , there were 5 pairs ( per cent. ) in which the angles WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO NAQADA RACE .
differed from each other by less than a .
of a degree .
'Fhe meau of the diflerences between the right and left bones of the whole series was 1o 49 ' .
Out of 51 female pairs , there were also 5 pairs ( per cent. ) with the angles differing from each other by less than the bove amount , and the mean of the differences was 1o 43 ' .
There would appear to be only a very weak colrelation between this angle of the humerus and the similar angle of the femur .
( Table XIII .
) From the same table it will be seen that the angle tends to be larger in long in short humeri .
TABLE XIII .
THE RADIUS .
On these bones , two measurements were taken ; the maximum length in the long axis of the bone , and the distance between the points where the longitudinal axis intersects the articular surfaces .
* The details are given in Table XIV .
ratio curve obtained by expressing the radius in terms of the tibia is remarkably symmetrical for such a small number of observations .
( Diagram IV .
) The critical function of the curve is negative , and consequently we have limited range ; this was calculated , and it was found to be units .
The observed range was 11 units , and this is not far removed from the theoretical range .
Like the humerus , the radius of the right side was longer than that of the left .
The following scheme gives the relations which were observed between the right and left bones of ' ' pairs\ldquo ; of radii .
*I sometimes refer to this measure by the abbreviation .
to although the distal point is not quite the centre of the articular surface .
See the notes referred to in the table of the femur .
ABLE X The constants of the L. radius ( expressed in terms of ) .
of observations 84 , Observed range 589-684 thousandths , Centroid , Critical function .
Theoretical range As with all the other bones , greater asymmetry can be observed in woman than in man .
In the male the humerus radius on the right side was , on the average , about millims. longer than on the left , in the female it was about millims. longer , hence woman was millims. more asymmetrical than man .
In the case of the inferior extremity a similar though a less marked difference was found between the sexes ; the fenIale a mean excess of about millim. over the male asymmetry .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
Diagram Ths above cul.ves are reduced to the same area by adjusting the vertical scale .
THE ULNA .
The measurements made on this bone were : the maximum length in the direction of the long axis , and the distance from the centre of the inferior articular surface to the point where the longitudinal axis cuts the surface of the olecranon .
This bone was remarkable in several respects .
The olecranon was very variable in size , occasionally it was large and massive , but more often it was small in proportion to the length of the bone , and sometimes it was diminutive to an exceptional degree .
The upper third of the bone in the majority of cases exhibited an anterior curvature .
This curvature was strongly marked in per cent. ( see U. .
B. 114 in Plate 22 ) .
I noticed a tendency for a much curved ulna to occur with a platycnemic tibia and a pilastric femur .
It would seem then that , under certain circumstances , the limb-bones are so acted by a vigorous musculature that they assume these special forms .
The measurements are recorded in Table XV .
, the left ulna given because it happened to constitute the larger series .
There is a certain resemblance between these curves and those of the radius , and this is especially the case with the ratiocurve where the of the ulna is expressed in terms of the length of the tibia .
In this curve the critical function is negative and the theoretical range is units , this is not very different from the observed range ( 13 units ) .
A similar result was obtained for the radius .
TABLE XV .
The relationship between the " " sides\ldquo ; is shown in the following scheme:\mdash ; WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
Bone .
surcmont)Ulna Here , again , we notice that the mean excess is greater in the female than in the THE CLAVICLE .
The length of this bone , a.s we have previously seen , is highly variable .
Some of the clavicles were strongly curved , but every transition occurred from an almost straight bone to one bent into the shape of an S. If we can form any opinion from the small number of pairs which were available we may say that the left clavide tends to be longer than the right , while the left arm , was shown above , is considerably shorter than the right .
This relation , however , would appear to be much less constant in the clavicle than in the limb-bones .
According to these scant data the clavicle differs from the limb-bones in that the male has a greater mean excess than the female .
THE PROPORTIONAL LENGTHS 0F INDICES .
An index is a number which expresses the length of one dimension in terms of some other dimension measured on the same individual .
Thus the absolute length disappears from consideration , and we have simply to deal with the varying proportion which the first dimension bears to the second .
VOL. CLXXXIX .
I have already made use of indices in the case of eaoh bone when the sexes were mixed .
The curves thus obtained expressed the distribution of deviations about the mean ratio .
These curves will be either simple or compound , according to whether the lengths of t , he bones in proportion to one another have the same or different means and standard deviations in the two sexes .
In Table .
are given most of the indices which have been suggested by different observers .
The indices are of two kinds .
From Table I. we can construct the limbs of a mean-man and of a mean-woman : the indices of these mean-individuals were then calculated , and they are thus indicated in the table .
By such a method we can obtain no idea of the variability of the index .
But we require to know what this variation is : for this purpose the index of each individual has been calculated separately , and so a series of indices are formed fro11l which measures of variability may be obtained .
The mean of the series will thus be the mean the indices .
In obtaining the series the question of\ldquo ; side\ldquo ; was disregarded .
Strictly , this ought not to have been neglected , and especially is this the case with the bones of the arm , but it would have been impossible to have formed a sufficiently large series if this had not been done , on account of the fragmentary condition of the skeleton ) The standard deviation of one index is not necessarily comparable with that of another , for the standard dimension selected often differs in the various indices .
On the other hand , the ratio-measures of variation ( coefficients of variat.ion ) are comparable .
If we look down the two columns of coefficients , the one for the male and the other for the female , we shall see that the intermembral index is the least variable and the claviculo-humeral index the most variable in both sexes , and the female is somewhat more variable than the male .
Of the intermediate indices the tibio-femoral , the humero-femoral , and the radio-humeral are more variable , and the radio-crural and humero-crural are less variable in woman than in man .
On the whole , then , we see the relative proportions of the limb-bones are less constant in woman than in man , and so we should judge that the correlation between the bones would be less in the female than in the male , and this is exactly what we shall find when we come to consider the correlations .
Several varieties of the indices of the mean-individual are given .
These were added to show the difference which is produced by measuring the lengths of the bones in different ways .
There is no doubt that for most purposes these numbers could be used for the conversion of indices , as obtained by different observers , into a comparable form , for it is doubtful whether race-differences would appreciably affect the relation between the various length-dimensions which have been adopted by different anatomists .
Having thus discussed the variability of the indices ( and this , perhaps , is not very different in the various races ) , we will now turn to the actual mean values which have been determined , that is , to the ethnological side of the subject .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCK TO THE NAQADA RACE .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
( 1 .
) The Intermembral Index .
The upper limb , in proportion to the lower ] , is longer in man than in woman .
In the data given by TURNER this index was calculated from the maximum length of the bones , except in the case of the tibia , where the spine was excluded .
The indices of our mean-man and mean-woman , found from corresponding measurements , are and respectively .
The mean index given for Europeans is , and a similar index is assigned to Mongolians , MaIays , natives of India , \amp ; c. ( 2 .
) The Tibio-femoral Index .
The tibia , in proportion to t , he femur , is shorter in woman than in man .
The mean indices ( the maximum length of the femur was taken and the spine was excluded from the tibia ) are for the male and for the female .
TOPINARD gives as the mean of 55 European men , and as mean of 17 European women .
To judge from ) rather divergent results of different authors , Negroes would appear to have a mean index of about 84 .
The value of this index varies much in the different races .
TURNER gives the index 83 " " as marking the division between proportionally long-legged ( ' dolichoknemic ' ) and short-legged races ( ' brachyknemlc According to this , the New Race were brachyknemic , and under this division are included Europeans , Chinese , Esquimaux , \amp ; c. ( 3 .
) The Humero-femoral Index .
The length of the humerus , in proportion to that of the femur , is greater in than in woman .
Our indices for maximum humerus and maximum femur are for the men and for the women .
Here the New Race diverge from the Europeans ( index ) and resemble the black races ( Negroes have an index ) where the humerus , in proportion to the femur , is shorter than in Europeans .
( 4 .
) The Radio-humeral Index .
The length of the radius , in proportion to that of the humerus , is greater in man than in woman .
For the maximum length of both bones the male index of the New Race was and the female 78 11 .
From 55 European male skelet , ons TOPINARD obtained a mean index , and from 26 female skeletons an index Sir WILLIAM TURNER divides the different races into three groups according to the value of this index .
He applies the term brachykerkic to those races which have an index below 75 ( such as Europeans , Lapps , \amp ; c trnesatikerkic to those with an index between 75-79 ( Australians , Negroes , American Indians , \amp ; c and dolichokerkcc to those with an index of 80 and upwards ( Andaman Islanders , Fuegians ) .
Following this classification the New Race belongs to the bottom of the mesatikerkic division , which includes the black races and some yellow races .
( 5 .
) The Claviculo-humeral In the New Race the relative length of the clavicle to the humerus would appear to be slightly greater in man than in woman .
But M. PAUL BROCA has measured 9 Negroes and 7 Negresses , and the indices were and respectively , while in 5 European men and 4 women they were and respectively .
In the case of the New Race the mean of the indices of 19 men was and of 29 women Here again , as in the radius , the New Race approached the Negro .
To judge from measurements very considerable differences appear to occur in the value of this index for different races , and this author is inclined to think that the relation is too efinite form a race-character .
Such we should expect from the highly variable nature of the clavicle , in fact , the coefficient of variation of this bone is much higher than that of any of the limb-bones .
( 6 .
) The -crural and Humero-crural Indices .
The indices which I have so named , indicate that both the radius and the humerus are longer in proportion to the femur tibia in man than in woman .
Below is a table quoted from TOPINARD , and derived from the measurements made by BROCA , on some 9-15 skeletons .
In the third column are inserted the indices for the New Race .
In this table the sexes are mixed .
The values for the Race lie in every case between values given for Europeans and Negroes , but generally much nearer the latter than the former .
TEE CORRELATION 0F THE LENGTHS or THE BONES .
By " " correlation\ldquo ; we mean the relation which exists between two or more " " effects such that when the " " cause\ldquo ; of variation produces a deviation from the mean of one effect then a simultaneous deviation is observed in all the other effects .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
Take the case of two bones of the lower extremity .
Let us suppose that a certain cause or system of causes acting on a group of still growing femora ultimately produces in an average deviation from the mean length of femora in general .
We then require to know what average deviation in the length of the tibiae , say , is associated with this abnormal group of femora , that is , how the cause of variation in the group .
femora influences the mean of the tibiae .
Of course , we may state the problem in the reverse manner , and say that we require to know how the cause of variation in a group of tibiae affects the mean length of the femora .
The causes , which are generally altogether nown , need not necessarily be regarded .
We have simply to deal with the effects and to express in a numerical manner the relation which is observed between them .
Th application of a measure which will express the relation existing between two correlated organs is due to Mr. GALTON .
A group of dimensions is chosen in which one organ varies between narrow and fixed limits .
Now if the average cieviation of this group from the general mean of the organ be expressed in terms of an absolute measure of variability of that organ , and if the observed } ssociate , mean deviation of the second organ be similarly expressed in terlns of its variability , then the ratio of the latter to the former is practically constant , whatever group may be selected .
This is only striotly true when the distribution of deviations follows the normal law .
This fracticn ( known as 7 ) is the we require , for if the mean deviation of the first organ the subject involves an equal ( i.e. , " " equal\ldquo ; in proportion to the variability of the organ ) average deviation in the second the relative then our ratio becomes unity .
As it involves less and less deviation in the second organ , the numerator of the fraction gradually approaches zero , and the constant can thus have any value from to The best method of deter1nining is by means of the formula ' which we have already explained .
By the use of this rmula the whole of the observations are taken into account .
Having found , we see , as before , that if average deviation from the mean a group of femora , then the associated mean deviation of the tibiae , say , ] be equal to , where , are the standard deviations of femur and tibia respectively .
The dispersion of these tibiae about their mean will be measured by the standard deviation With respect to the dimensions of organisms , there are two problems which require to be solved , namely ( I ) the form of distribution of the absolute variations and ( 2 ) that of the index variations , and corresponding to these the absolute correlations and the index correlations .
These are two quite distinct aspects of the question .
Suppose had a series of men ranging in stature from pigmies to giants , and that they were all perfecb 1uodels of one another , then the absolute variation of any bone would possess an extensive range , and the frequencies couId be expressed by some form of curve ; while the bsolute c for every pair of would be expressed by unity .
But let us take stature as the standard , and refer the sures to it ; we shall then find no variation , and so the index and the correlation are zero .
Next , suppose that we had a series of men of identical stature , but that the bones varied considerably in relation to one another .
Here , since the standard is constant , the absolute variation would give the same curve as the index variation , and the absolute and index correlations must also be the same .
If we suppose in our former series ranging from pigmies to giants that the individuals were nearly , but not quite , perfect models of one another , then the absolute variations would have an extensive range , and the coefficients of correlation must still be high .
The index variations would possess a small range , while the index coefficients of correlation might be either high or low .
If the individuals are supposed to only roughly resemble one another , then the absolute variations would give one form of frequency curve , while the index variations would very possibly give a quite diffetent kind of curve , for the abnormal bones with respect to stature would be placed in their appropriate places towards either end of the series , while , of course , in the absolute series these bones might have been perfectly average ones .
SimiIarly the absolute and index coefficients of correlation need not resemble one another , and there is no means of saying , priori , whether the latter would be higher or lower than the former .
The absolute correlation of pairs of bones will give us a measure of how the bones in general are associated together , and this without reference to any particular standard we may wish to institute for the individual .
The form of frequenoy curve given by indices will partly depend upon the standard .
The standard to which the organs ars referred will be different according to the purpose we have in view .
In the case of organisms that are still growing , we are unable to deal with the absolute measures , and we ought to select a standard which will represent correctly as possible the stage of growth at which the animal has arrived .
When growth has ceased the significance of index variation and index correlation will depend upon the standard which is chosen .
Here we shall generally require a dimension which stands in some functional relation to the organs ; for example , ] men would find it very inconvenient to have exceptionally short arms , and so stature would be a suitable standard to which the bones of the arm might be referred .
In this example , then , a correlation between the indices , is intended to answer such a question as : What relative length of leg to stature will length of the vertebral axis would be better , so as to avoid the incidental correlation due to the length of the leg .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
a man probably have when his arm , in proportion to stature , varies by a certain amount ?
Professor PEARSON has recently pointed out that if the bones were supposed to be sorted into skeletons absolutely at random , still a correlation would occur between the indices .
The thus obtained is called the " " spurious correlation and it would appear to be measured by the expression , where ) , are the coefficients of variation of the two correlated dimensions and of the standard respectively .
If if the coefficient of correlation obtained from the actual indices , and is the " " spurious correlation the question arises as to whether any meaning can be assigned to the expression .
Professor PEARSOr is inclined to think this expression gives the intensity of ' ' organic tion as distinguished from the observed correlation .
The Absolute In Table XVII .
are given the coefficients of correlation of pairs of bones for the male and female series .
The correlation of right and left bones is seen to be slightly less in the female than in the male in the case of the femur and tibia , but the right and left humerus and the right and left radius are perhaps somewhat more closely correlated in the female than in the male .
, with regard to right and left correlation , the female would seem to be more closely correiated ) the male in the upper extremity , but less so in the lower .
In every other case the coefficients of are conspicuously greater in the male than in the female .
The mean of the sexual ratios of the correlat , ions is The femur and tibia are very closely colrelated ; the former in the male would appear to be about equally correlated with the humerus and radius , but on comparing the male and female series it may perhaps be said that the femur is slightly less correlated with the radius than with the humerus .
In the case of the tibia , on the other hand , there is apparently a somewhat stronger correlation with the radius than with the humerus .
Perhaps we ought to expect this from the fact that the femur and humerus , and the tibia and radius , are serially homologous .
Everywhere , except in the case of the humerus and radius , the maximum length of the humerus is seen to be a little more strongly ] ated with the other bones than is the oblique length of the humerus .
Both in the male and female series the oblique length of the humerus is the dimension which is the more closely correlated with the radius .
I have already suggested the reason for this in discussing the relation between the two lengths of the humerus .
In all these correlations , when a right bone was not present a left was taken .
This , in the case of the arm-bones , is scarcely legitimate , as we can see from the VOL. CLXXXIX .
MR. .
WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN SKELETON , TABL XVII .
example , where the R. humerus is correlated with the R. radius .
This can readily be understood from the considerable asymmetry which was found between the armbones of the two sides .
If " " side\ldquo ; had been regarded throughout the series , the number of available bones would have been so much reduced that I considered it best to disregard this source of error altogether , bub it should be borne in mind that in the correlatious of the bones of the arm the coefficients are slightly smaller than if the " " side\ldquo ; of the bones could have been taken into account .
Taking everything into consideration , however , the bones of the lower extremity ( the femur and ibia ) would appear to be more correlated than are the corresponding ones of the ( the humerus and radius ) .
It is remarkable that the femur and tibia should be about as strongly colrelated with the hnmerus and the radius as the latter bones are with each other .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
The of the clavicle and the proportional breadth of the scapula to .
the infraspinous length would seem to be slightly correlated , but the probable error of the coefficient is very large , and hence little reliance can be placed on the actual value obtained .
Index Correlations .
The significance of these corl.elations has already been discussed .
The standards which were instituted were not very satisfactory .
doubtedly stature ( or rather the length of the vertebral axis ) would have been the best , but , of course , this was not available .
Consequently it was necessary.to take one bone as the standard , and to express of other bones in terms of it .
Whenever possible the length of the tibia , excluding the spine , was selected .
The results which have been obtained are given in Table XVIII .
Besides the coefficients of correlation* ( ) , I have added the " " spurious correlations\ldquo ; which were determined by Professor PEARSON'S formula .
formula , already been mentioned .
In the last column to the right the value is shown .
As an example , let us take the first pair of indices given in table .
The probable deviation from the mean of the ratio associated with a known deviation ( D ) of the ratio is given by , but whether the " " organic correlation\ldquo ; between the indices is represented by rather than by is an open question .
Confining ourselves to the actually observed correlations of the ratios , we see that many of the coefficients differ very widely from those obtained from the absolute measures .
In nearly every case they are distinctly lower .
No uniform difference between the correlations of the male and female can be detected .
One point .
however , comes out very clearly : the femur and humerus expressed in terms of tibia are more strongly correlated than the femur and radius referred to the same standard .
This was less distinctly shown in the absolute correlations .
Also the tibia and radius , with the humerus as the standard , are more closely correlated than the tibia and the humerus expressed in terms of the femur , and with the absolute correlations similar results were obtained .
According to the expressions , this condition of things is reversed .
The Correlation of Homologous Parts .
Since the foregoing was written I have been .
enabled to test hypothesis of the cIoser correlation of homologous parts by a comparison wit , two other races , the Aino and the French .
This has been possible through the great kindness of Miss *These were found by the direct correlation of the ratios .
180 .
E. WARREN ON VARIABILITY OF ' HUlfAN , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THH NAQADA RACC .
ALICE LEE and Professor PEARSON , in loWing me to use the results they have obtained in the correlation of the limb-bones of these two races .
In Table .
we have a comparative view of the coefficients of correlation for the three races .
the column headed " " Mean of the six \ldquo ; we can see bhat the femur and the are more strongly correlated than the humerus and the radius .
Also the femur and the humerus , which als homologous bones in the lower and upper respectively , are distinctly more closely colrelated than the femur and the radius , which are not serially homologous .
Similarly the tibia and the radius would appear to be slightly more correlated than the tibia and the humerus .
It will be noticed , however , that in the French this tendency for the closer correlation of homologous parts is not exhibited in the case of the correlations of the tibia .
omitting the French and taking the means of the correlations of the other two races , we obtain the results given in the succeeding column of the table .
The difl'erence between the mean elations of the femur and tibia and the humerus and radius is per cent. of perfect correlation ; the difference between the femur and humerus ( homologous bones ) and the femur and radius ( -homologous bones ) is per cent. , while with the tibia and radius and the tibia and humerus the difference is only per cent. A much larger series be necessary before any certain conclusions could be drawn , but the following suggestions are offered:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The bones of the upper extremityare less correlated with one another than are the corresponding bones of the lower extremity ; e.g. , the mean correlation of femur and tibia , and of humerus and radius ( 2 .
) Serially homologous bones tend to be more closely correlated than nonbones , but perhaps this is less marked in civilised than in savage races .
( 3 .
) Proximal bones would seem to be more correlated than distal bones ; e.g. , the mean correlation of femur and humerus , and tibia and radius Ir .
THE SACRUM .
It was previously stated that this bone was found to be useless for the determination of sex .
Many of the sacra were in such a fragmentary condition that nothing could be inferred from them .
There was considerable variation in the number of constituent vertebrae .
Out of 264 sacra examined there were seven ( per cent. ) composed of four vertebrae , and in four more bones this was doubtfully the case .
Of these eleven sacra six belonged to female skeletons , two to male skeletons , while the sex of the remaining three was *I have not touched upon the comparative strength of the correlation in the three races , since Professor PEARSON is investigating this subject .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
undetermined .
In sixteen cases ( per cent. ) the sacrum was composed of six vertebrae , but as the rest of the vertebral column was incomplete , it was impossible to say whether this condition was attained by the fusion of the last .
or the first caudal .
Here five were male , seven female , and the rest undetermined .
There were also sixteen ( per cent. ) other sacra , composed of six vertebrae , but the most anterior one imperfectly assimilated with the remaining five , and the sacrum exhibited two promontories Plate .
Of these , five were ] six female .
In six cases ( per cent. ) there were five vertebrae , but the anterior one was similarly imperfectly assimilated with the remaining four ; one belonged to a male skeleton , and three to female skeletons .
In four cases per cent. ) the antel.ior vertebra was free on one side , while on the other side it was completely fused with the rest of the sacrum , and the uricular surface extended over it .
The actual number of in these sacra was undetermined , as every specimen was much aged .
Many of the sacra exhibited a marked right and left metry .
Here it was observed that the auricular surface generally extended forwards unequally on either side .
The sacra which possessed two promontories showed , a rule , , this asymmetry to a greater or less degree .
A very remarkable feature in the sacra was the frequency with which a completely open sacral canal occurred .
In no less than eight cases ( per cent. ) was the canal widely open throughout its elltire length , while in another it was open except for the neural arch of the first sacral vertebra .
In four cases the canal open posteriorly from a to two-thirds of its length .
Of these hirteen s nine belonged to male skeletons , and two to female .
As far as can bejudged from these comparatively few observations , would appear that the female exhibits diminution in the number of constituent , vertebrae more frequently than does the male , while , on the other hand , the open neural canal would seem to be an essentially male mality . .
A. M. PATERSO has examined 265 adult sacra of both sexes and of various laces .
He found only one specimen consisting of four ebrae ( per cent while increase above .
five vertebrae occurred in per cent. In the New Race diminution to four vertebrae was found per cent. at least , while increase above five occurred in only per cent. Thus the sacra of the New Race differed perceptibly from the collection examined by PATERSON .
But it is impossible to know from this observer 's material whether modern races differ among themselves in the proportional number of abnormal sacra .
From our results it would seem probable that different races do vary very considerably in this respect , for it would be rash to admit that a tendency is here shown towards an elongation of the modern sacrum .
Dr PATERSON has drawn attention to the " " sacral notch\ldquo ; as being a simian * ' Trans. Roy .
Dublin So 1893 .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THhl NAQADA RACE .
racter , he found it in a considerable percentage of the sacra 01 certain races .
The notch is occasioned by the second vertebra being somewhat narrower from right to left the first and third .
There fits into this notch a prof , uberance of the ilium , and so the sacrum and the pelvic girdle are more firmly locked together .
The sacral notch was not at all consp c exhibited in any of our Qacra , though , in a few cases , traces of it could be observed .
THB 0F THE SACRUM .
Only the normal sacra , composed of five vertebrae , were measured .
Two dimenwere taken , the ]ength the breadth .
The length was measured from the middle of the promontory to the middle of the ventral border of the fifth vertebra .
The breadth was the greatest transverse diameter as measured by two parallel vertical surfaces .
From these dimensions t , he ordinary sacral index was calculated .
The results are given in the accompaltying table ( XIX .
) .
Her have the anomalous result of the male acrum being relatively broader than the female bone .
I attribute this to the great curvature which many of the male sacra exhibited , while a considerable number of the female sacra were nearly flat ( see Plate 22 , figs. S. 1212 ; S.B. 112 ) .
Such a curvature will reduce the " " length\ldquo ; very appreciably , and so the sacral index will become high .
It would appear to be a more satisfactory method to measure the " " length\ldquo ; along the mid-line of the ventral concave surface , and then the effect of curvature would disappear from the index .
Little stress , however , can be placed the actual difference observed between the means of the male and female series , for the .
probable error of the mean is over onehundredth of ' ' length\ldquo ; in each case .
It will be noticed that woman is considerably more variable in the sacral index than man .
From Table .
we see that the mean length of the sacrum in absolute lr.easures is a trifle greater in the female than in the male , and this we can understand from the strong curvature of many of the male sacra and the comparative flatness of a considerable number of the female bones .
The breadth is a trustworthy measurement , and it ] ] be seen that in absolute measures the female sacrum is very nearly as broad as the male , from which we may probably judge that if the " " length\ldquo ; were measured along the curved , the female sacrum would be relatively broader than the male It would appear that length and breadth are more closely correlated in man ) in woman .
Sir WILLIAM TURNER has divided the different races into the ( 1 .
) Dolichohieric , with sacral .
index below 100 ; this is the most Simian group , and includes Kaffirs , Bushmen , \amp ; c. VOL. CLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 2 TABLE XIX .
TABLE WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACL .
( 2 .
) Platyhieric , with the index above 100 .
This ) roup has been further divided into\mdash ; ( a ) , in , and including , Negroes , Chinese , \amp ; c. ( b ) hieric , iindex over 106 , including Europeans , Aucient We now see that the New Race was strongly platyhieric ; TURNER quotes as the mean male index .
Europeans , and the mean female index .
We may hence conclude that , in this character , the New ltace dosely resembled mode ] ] ] Europeans , III .
THE LA .
Unfortunately , only a small number of these bones could be sured , as the scapula is a bone peculiarly liable to injury .
When possible , I measured in all cases the total length in a straight line from the superior to the inferior angle , the breadth from both the centre of glenoid vity and from the middIe point of its dorsal edge to the point where the spine meets the vertebral border .
I also measured the distance of this latter point from the inferior angle infraspinous length From these measurements we can derive two indices:\mdash ; The scapular index Breadth to ) order The infraspinous index Infraspinous Length The indices which were found are given in .
: the sexes and ' ' sides\ldquo ; are mixed .
It would ) , however , that the mixture of sexes is not wholly , as may be seen from Table XXII .
Here the means are higher in the female than in the male , indicating a greater proportional breadth to the scapula in woman than in man .
Table XXIII .
gives the details as to the correlation between the infraspinous length and breadth in 44 scapulae .
There is seen to be a distinct , though not a very strong , correlation between these two dimensions .
It is a rather remarkable fact that length and breadth seldom appear to be closely correlated .
We found it so in the sacrum , it is also the in skulls , and feel satisfied by observation that such will be found to be true for the long bones .
The mean of the scapular index is of the infraspinous index .
Thesu results are surprisingly close to the mean values given for Europeans , and respectively .
We have seen that the question of sex ought not strictly to be neglected ; it would also seem that " " side\ldquo ; should be taken into account .
As far as we can judge from the few observations , it would appear that the means of total length and infraspinous length are practically the same on the two sides , but in every case in which a pair occurred , both in male and female , the breadth was greater on the left side than on the right , and so corresponded to the greater mean length of left clavicle .
The average preponderance in four men was millim. , and in four women millim. The angle which the axis of the spine made with the vertebral border was very riable .
I approximately measured two of the extreme cases ; the angle which the axis of the spine made with the anterior portion of vertebral border was and On the whole it may be said that this " " scapulo-spinal an \ldquo ; was somewhat low for the New ; the mean given for Europeans is TABLE XXI .
* See Sir WILLIAM TuRNHR'S memoir , op .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQAI ) RACE .
TABLE XXIII .
Correlation between infraspinous length and breadth of scapula ( scapulae ) .
Mean error 0 .
SUMMARY .
Some of the more important conclusions which we have arrived at may be briefly recapitulated in the following paragraphs:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) We that the variability of the long bones is roughly proportional to their absolute length .
( 2 .
) With respect to the long bones , I have been able to detect no appreciable difference between the bilities of the two sides of the body .
curves which the measufements of long bones yield would appear to be generally those of limited range .
( 4 .
) The femora of the New Race were markedly .
Some few were tymeric , these mostly had an exceptionally low pilastric index .
( 5 .
) The length of the neck head of the femul in proportion to f , be total length of the bone is longer in man than in woman , but the angle of the neck with the shaft would appear to be reater , or at least not ] , in the female than in male .
( 6 .
) It gested that the of torsion will be found to be a race character .
( 7 .
) The oblique ] of the femur , relative to the maximum length , is shorter in woman than in man .
This is due to the greater width of the pelvis , and possibly there is a fairly strong correlation between ) breadth of the pelvis and the angle which the condyles make with the horizontal plane when t bone is held upright in the rlum position .
( 8 .
) The tibiae of the New Race exhibited atycnemia to a marked degree , but it found less frequently in the female than in the male .
There were distinct indications of a correlation between the platycnemia of the tibia and the condition of the " " pilastre\ldquo ; of the femur .
( 9 .
) The humeri exhibited an intercondylar foramen with remarkable frequency .
Perforation occurred more often in the female t , han in the male , and on the lefb side on the right .
I am inclined to agree with Dr. suggestion , hat the perforation in is incidental .
( 10 .
) The ulna was enerally incurved to a greater or less degree .
( 11 .
) The remnl tibia is slightly longer on the left side than on the right , ) the right humerus radius is very distinctly longer than the left , while , perhaps , the left clavicle and the left scapula with regard to its eadth are somewhat greater than the asymmetry would appear to be more marked in than man .
( 12 .
) The New had an intermembral index lying between the indices assigl ) to Europeans and Negl.oes .
This race was " " brachyknemic\ldquo ; and distinctly " " mesatikerkic The radio-crural and humero-crural indices very remarkably approached the values given for Negroes by M. PAUL BIlOCA .
( 13 .
) The absolute correlations of the bones differ very markedly from the inde . .
The latter in every case are smaller than the former .
The " " spurious correlatious\ldquo ; are always approximately equal to .
There are clear indications of a closer correlation between serially homologous bones than betweell non-homologous bones .
( 14 .
) The sacrum was remarkable for the great curvature which many of the bones exhibited .
This was more conspicuously shown in the male sacra , and consequently WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQAT ) RACE .
the " " length\ldquo ; measurement was much reduced .
As measured by the ordinary sacral index , the male was broader in proportion to its " " length\ldquo ; than the female sacrum .
The New Race were as strongly platyhieric as modern Europeans .
( 15 .
) The scapular index is higher in the female than in the male .
The scapulospinal angle would appear to be somewhat low .
Both the scapular and the infraspinous indices closely resemble those of ropeans .
Here , then , in the New Race we have a hardy and vigorous people , as shown by the pronounced pilastre of the femur and the platycnetnia of the .
Just as is erved in so many races , in some characters the New Race advanced or modern ; in others it was inferior or primitive .
On the whole , the proportions of the limb-bones to one another may be said to have approached those of the Negro , while the sacral and scapular indices were almost identical with those of Europeans .
THE TABLES OF THE LENGTH-MEASUREMENTS OF THE BONES .
The following tables include all the length-measurements made on the bones .
They constitute , I believe , by far the gest series ever made on a single race .
The publication of this raw material may appear unnecessary , but when it is embered that perhaps in the futu re some of the preceding analysis may be shown to be insufficient , then the great value of such material will be evident .
Besides , the skulls have not as yet been exhaustively dealt with , and the vertebral columns ( other than the sacra ) and certain other parts of the skeletons still remain to be studied .
Now , many very important tjons could be instituted when all the material has been worked through , and some of these would be impossible without these tables .
In the preparation of the tables it was necessary to re-sort all the measurements into the respective skeletons , and the whole series has been very carefully revised .
In a few cases I became doubtful as to whether a bone really belonged to the assigned skeleton ; such are indicated by a query placed over the figures .
On the other hand , few additional bones had been overlooked ; these have since been measured , and it has thus been possible to construct several more undoubted skeletons .
When a second skeleton was found in a grave it is indicated by an placed after the number .
These tables , then , represent a revision of the series from which the foregoing results have been calculated .
The alterations are exceedingly few and quite inappreciable with respect to the values of the constants which have been determined .
A few more skeletons have been added , and so the series is slightly more complete ; also the right of several bones to the place assigned them has been questioned , and a errors in transcription have been corrected .
These errors were not of a serious nature : in three or four cases the " " side " " of the bone had been accidentally reversed , while in copying the figures only three mistakes were detected , and the greatest of these made a difference of millim. in the measurement .
The graves from which the skeletons were taken were divided into four groups ( the " " General Graves the " " Q Graves the " " B and the " " T Graves since they were more thickly scattered over certain four localities than over the intervening area .
The tables will mostly explain themselves .
The " " side\ldquo ; of the bones , which have their measurements placed along a horizontal lin , is indicated by an ( right ) or ( left ) .
in the third column .
When both " " sides\ldquo ; occur in the same line , " " \ldquo ; is put in this column , and the " " side\ldquo ; of each measure is shown by a little or placed before the figures .
At the end of each series there is placed a lisb of the bones which possessed the same number , but which , for certain reasons , could not be sorted into skeletons .
Here the number found on the bones is placed first , and then the bones themselves are indicated by letters : femur ; tibia ; Fibfibula ; humerus ; radius ; ulna ; Clclavicle ; Scsacrum .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THH NAQADA RACE .
DOL .
CLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 2 194 MR. E. WARREN ON TH@ VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAH ANELSKEL , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
ETO MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN HUEANTON , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
WTTH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
ONO MR. E. WARREN ON OHE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN MANLESOE , WITH SPECIAL R TO THh ' NAQADA ETO MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN HUMANTOS .
WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACC .
204 ] } ON VARIABILITY OF HUMAN SKELETON , WITH ESPEC [ AL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACIC .
201- ON6 MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN MANLESON , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO NAQADA RACE .
TON MR. E. WAR h ON THN VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN SMANETOK , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
VOL. CLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 2 TO N MR. E. WARREN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAN UMANETOK , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
WITH ESPECIAL RREFREENC TO NAQADA RACE .
214 MR. E. WARREN ON THE ABlLITY OF THE HUHAN UMANETSK , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
216 .
E. WARREN ON ] VARTABIL OF THE HUMAN SKELETON , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
VOL. CLXXXIX .
\mdash ; B. 2 MR. E. WARREN ON THE OF THE HUMAN SKELETON , WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA a 220 bl It .
L ON ABILITY OF THE HUMAN SKELhTON , WITH ESPECIAL RhlhfthNCh TO THH NAQQDA RACA .
N22 MR. .
WARRAN ON THE VARIABILITY OF THE HUMAH ANELSKON , WITH ESPLCIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
E. WARREN VARIABILITY OF THE HUNIAN SKELETON , oi ni WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
VOL. OLXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 2 WITH REFERENCE TO THE NAQADA RACE .
Figs. 1-6 indicate the various measurements made on the different bones .
Fig. F.l. 235 is the outline of a cross-section through the middle of the shaft of a pilastric femur .
It resembles an isosceles triangle , and is the rarer type .
Fig. F.r. 175 .
This is the commoner type where the crest is rectangular in cross .
section .
Fig. F.r. 7 ( ) .
A similar cross-section through a femur with a low pilastric index .
Fig. F.r. 7 ( 2 ) .
A. sub-trochanteric section through the same femur , the antero-posterior flattening ( platymerism ) , and the third trochantel indicated b Fig. F.r. 1612 .
A sub-trochanteric section through a less pronounced platymeric femur .
Figs. T.r. and T.r. 382 ars cross-sections through strongly platycnemic tibiae .
In T.r. the posterior surface has , while this is not the case in T.r. 382 .
The sections were taken at the level of the anterior nutritive foramen .
Fig. Fib.1 .
Cross-section ' through a nelled fibula .
Fig. U.r. An outline of an incurved ulna .
Fig. S. 1102 exhibits the curvature of a composed of six vertebrae and possessing two promontories owing to the imperfect assimilation of the first vertebra .
Figs. S. and S.B. 112 .
These indicate the extremes which were observed in the curvature of sacrum .
S. 1212 is a male sacrum , and S.B. 112 is a female sacrum . .
Trans. .
B. rol .
189 , 1897 ,

