Fig. 1 .
AB Fig. 3 .
FC C GD VI .
Observations on the Figures of Snow .
By the Reverend Benj .
Langwith , D. D. Rector of Petworth in Sussex .
In a Letter to Dr. Jurin , R. S. Secr. ON the 30th of January last , something past Nine in the Morning , Weather cold , Wind Southwesterly , but not very high , Barometer above thirty Inches , I saw that pretty Phenomenon of the Star-like Snow , and tho ' , upon comparing my Observations afterwards with those of Descartes , Dr. Grew , and Mr. Morton , I find I have but little to add upon the Subject ; yet , as I observed the Progress of Nature in this sort of Crystallization , with a great deal of Pleasure , I hope it will not be disagreeable to you to receive an Account of it .
I shall begin with the most simple Figures A and B , ( Pl .
I. Fig. 3 .
) of which the former is a roundish Pellet of Ice ; the second , a small oblong Body , with parallel Sides , which is often as fine as a Hair .
Of this latter kind the Flakes of Snow chiefly consist ; and tho ' they look white to the Eye , yet when viewed with a small Magnifier of a Microscope , they appear like so many transparent Needles of Ice thrown together , without any Manner of Order .
The next Figure is C , in which the Pellet has shot out six of those small Bodies of equal Length , and set at equal Angles : Of this kind I saw a considerable Number .
The next Step in the Crystallization is D , in which those Bodies are lengthened , and have shot out a great many more from their Sides , at equal Angles , but unequal Lengths , as growing continually shorter and shorter , till they terminate in a Point : I measured some of these , and found them to be about one quarter of an Inch in Breadth .
I saw but very few of them in Perfection , for the collateral Shoots were so exquisitely fine , as to be liable to be broken in their Fall , or confounded together by the least Degree of Heat .
Of the next kind , E , I saw a very great number , which being examined by the Microscope , plainly appeared to be nothing but the former in Disorder .
The Edges of these were in general very irregular , but some of them happened to be so indented , as to look like the jagged Leaves of Plants .
The next Kind , F , had twelve points regularly disposed , and probably might consist of two of the former so joined together , as to cut their Angles equally .
Perhaps also those Mr. Morton describes , as consisting of Radii , which , instead of terminating in a Point , grow bigger , as they advance from the Centre , might be formed from two of the Kind , C , so joined at the Centre , as to cut each other 's Angles unequally ; for in the Progress of the Crystallization , these Radii would quickly unite .
Lastly , that Sort , which Descartes compares to Roses , and of which he has given a Figure in his Treatise of Meteors , may be nothing but the Kind E , when the Points are rounded off , by being gently thawed .
I propose these things only by way of Conjecture ; because , as the small Drops of Water may be impregnated with very different Particles in the Air , it is not easy to determine , whether these Figures may not be the Result Result of a Crystallization quite different from the former .
I had almost forgot to tell you , that I saw but very few Figures of twelve Points , and those mostly imperfect in one respect or other .
Petworth , Feb. 13 .

