Deferred Papers .
1890 .
] Journals .
Canadian Record of Science .
Vol. IY .
No. 2 .
8vo .
Montreal 1890 .
Natural History Society , Montreal .
Nature Notes .
No. 5 .
8vo .
London 1890 .
The Editors .
Revista do Observatorio .
Anno Y. No. 4 .
8vo .
Bio de Janeiro 1890 .
The Observatory .
Revue Medico-Pharmaceutique .
Annee 3 .
No. 4 .
4to .
Constantinople 1890 .
The Editor .
Stazioni Sperimentali Agrarie Italiane .
Yol .
XVIII .
Fasc .
4 .
8vo .
Asti 1890 .
R. Stazione Enologica , Asti .
Thirty-six Carte de Visit Photographs of Fellows of the Royal Society .
Messrs. Maul and Fox .
June 12 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
Sir Benjamin Baker , Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet , Mr. S. H. Burbury , Mr. W. Gardiner , Dr. A. S. Lea , Major P. A. MacMahon , Professor S. U. Pickering , Mr. I. Roberts , Mr. J. J. H. Teall , and Dr. R. T. Thome were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On a Re-determination of the principal Line in the Spectrum of the Nebula in Orion , and on the Character of the Line .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received March 20 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] I | i i t II .
" Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received April 16 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] VOL. XLYIII .
M Prof. A. P. W. Thomas .
[ June 12 , III .
" On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic Spectrum of Sirius .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received April 25 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] IV , " Preliminary Note on the Development of the Tuatara ( Sphenodonpunctatum ) .
" By Professor A. P. W. Thomas , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , University College , Auckland , N.Z. Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received May 19 , 1890 .
A grant was made by the Royal Society in the year 1884 to Professor J. T. Parker , of Dunedin , for the study of the development of Apteryx , Sphenodon and Callorhynclnis .
As Sphenodon does not occur near Dunedin , but is found chiefly on outlying islands belonging to the province of Auckland , at the opposite end of the colony , Professor Parker invited me to join him in the investigation of this form .
We gathered from what had been written on the natural history of the tuatara , as well as from oral information obtained from those who were best acquainted with the New Zealand fauna , that the month of February was probably the time at which the tuatara bred .
We therefore started from Auckland at the beginning of February , 1885 , for what appeared the most promising hunting-ground\#151 ; the island of Karewa , some ten miles from Tamanga , in the Bay of Plenty .
Mr. A. Reischek , a naturalist well known by his researches on the natural history of New Zealand , who had already had opportunities of observing the tuatara , was good enough to accompany us .
The island of Karewa is situated some four miles from the mainland ; it is little more than a rock which rises with precipitous sides high above the sea .
At one spot only can a landing be effected , as the island is exposed to the ocean swell rolling in from the open Pacific , whilst the shores are for the greater part formed by unscalable cliffs of rhyolitic rock .
Our first attempt at landing was frustrated by the swell , but a day later a second attempt was successful- The vegetation on the island is largely composed of small karaka trees and thickets of coprosma .
The light , loose soil between the roots of trees and the rocks is mined by countless burrows , in which live mutton-birds ( Puffinus tenuirostris ) and tuataras .
On the " Chicken Islands " the tuataras have been described by Mr. Reischek as living with certain other sea-birds , namely , another 1890 .
] On the Development of the .
153 species of Puffinus ( P. gavius)and two species of Procellaria .
This has been cited in ' Nature '* as an interesting case of commensalism , and it is there stated that the birds " live in holes dug out by the tuataras and keep apparently on the best terms with them .
" It is stated that the tuatara generally lives on the right and the sea-bird on the left of the inner chamber .
I believe it is quite a mistake to suppose that any friendly relation whatever exists between the tuataras and the birds , and that here , as in the somewhat similar case of the prairie dog and rattlesnake , the idea of friendliness is quite out of place .
It is true that the tuatara sometimes makes use of the burrows of the mutton-bird ( though I have never found a tuatara living in the same burrow as a mutton-bird ) , but it cannot be said that the two species ever live on more favourable terms than those of mutual toleration .
At one time I kept two kiwis in a large house with a number of tuataras , and a tuatara would at times shelter itself in the same box or corner as a kiwi\#151 ; the two never attempting to fight , the tuatara hiding itself under the kiwi as it would do under a stone , whilst the kiwi seemed not to notice its presence .
The tuatara seems to enter the burrow of the mutton-bird just as it would shelter itself in any other hole in the ground .
In any case , the tuatara must be an untrustworthy associate , for or four occasions I have seen or captured tuataras with young mutton-birds in their mouths .
It is probably a truer view of the situation to suppose that the chance of getting a nestling renders tho burrows of the mutton-bird more attractive to the tuatara .
Dr. Gunther , in the absence of personal observation , supposed that the tuatara was incapable of burrowing .
It is , however , certain that it can burrow well in such light soil as is found on Karewa , and even in the clay soil on which my lizard-houses are situated the animals have made burrows fully two feet in length , in which they are completely hidden .
Not all the lizards , however , are so industrious ; most of them have contented themselves with the artificial barrows , in the shape of long wooden boxes and drain pipes , with which they have been provided .
We spent some days camping on the island and captured a number of tuataras , but searched in vain for eggs , though we opened up many burrows in the hope of finding them .
The smallest tuatara found was 4'9 inches in length .
Not finding eggs , we dissected several tuataras , thinking that the condition of the ovaries might tell us w hither we were too early or too late in the breeding season , but the dissection revealed no eggs at all approaching maturity .
We took away from the island a number of tuataras , hoping that October 19 , 1882 .
See also ' Transactions of the New Zealand Institute , ' vol. 14 , p. 274 .
M 2 154 Prof. A. P. W. Thomas .
| June 12 , they would breed in captivity .
Some of these were taken by Pro-fessor Parker to Dunedin , a rather larger number being kept by me in Auckland , as it was thought that the warmer climate of the northern part of the colony " Would be more favourable .
Up to the beginning of January , 1886 , no eggs had been obtained from my tuataras , and , as regards the lizards I then possessed , any such hope was futile , for I shortly afterwards discovered that all my tuataras ( twenty-nine in number ) were males .
Thinking that our visit the previous summer had been too late in the season , I determined to make another expedition to Karewa , this time at my own expense .
Professor Parker was unable to join me , owing to the great distance of Dunedin from the spot ; he was , moreover , engaged in working at the development of the kiwi .
From this date , therefore , the whole of the work fell into my hands .
I spent three or four days at the beginning of January in camp alone on Karewa ; but , although a month earlier in the season than on the occasion of the previous visit , I was again unsuccessful in procuring a single egg of the tuatara .
I made , however , a step in advance by discovering the external differences between the sexes .
We had been assured by those familiar with the tuatara that there was no difference in the external characters of the sexes , and this statement seemed to be borne out by what we could learn from the literature of the subject .
Thus , Dr. Newman , the latest writer on the subject , said"* : " The males are so like the females that they have not yet been distinguished with certainty .
" i " The male tuatara has no special strongly marked tints , no special personal attraction ; and , unlike the males of several other species of lizards , are not much , if at all , bigger than the females .
The absence of special sexual attributes is perhaps due . . .
" On dissecting and carefully comparing a number of tuataras , I found that the current statements were not correct .
There need seldom be any difficulty in distinguishing the sexes ; the male is much larger , and has the crests on neck and back far more strongly developed .
In the fully adult male , the crests with their white spines are very conspicuous ; in the female , the crests are low , and the spines are reduced to a row of white points along the back .
The male , too , is of more robust build , its coloration is somewhat brighter , and it is more pugnacious .
During the breeding season the crests in the male become at times turgid and swollen , the spines standing stiffly up , and giving the animal a much more antique and grotesque appearance .
It must be noted , however , that a good deal of variation occurs in both the tints and brightness of colour in both Sexes , and the spines are larger in some females than in others .
The discovery of the external characters of the sexes showed m\#174 ; * 1 Transactions New Zealand Institute , ' vol. 10 , p. 225 .
1890 .
] On the Development of the 155 that all the tuataras I had kept for the past year ( twenty-nine in number ) were males .
This arose chiefly from the fact that males are more easily obtained than females ; but it is possible that our desire to obtain the largest , most vigorous , and fully adult animals for breeding accounts in part for our having retained only males for breeding purposes .
On the occasion of this second visit I secured as many females as I could , but found more difficulty in obtaining females than males , so that I set a number of males at liberty as being superfluous .
The apparently greater abundance of the males is perhaps due to the females seeking concealment more than the other sex ; at any rate , I am led to suggest this from the observation of my tuataras kept in confinement .
The instinct of concealment would , of course , he of special value to a female laden with eggs .
Notwithstanding that I now possessed a dozen pairs of tuataras , no eggs were obtained the following summer .
The lizards had been kept in large houses and were well cared for , and appeared in good health , but would not breed .
Capitivity would seem to interfere with their reproductive powers , an effect which would hardly be anticipated with animals of so sluggish a nature .
I could only refer their sterility in confinement to a change in some of the conditions of life consequent on captivity , and endeavouring , therefore , to make their surroundings approximate more closely to the natural ones , I had still larger houses constructed , and extensive runs on the open ground enclosed .
It was not , however , till January , 1889 , that eggs were obtained , and even then some of them were insertile .
Weary of the constant watching of the lizards in previous summers , I took a short holiday at the New Year , and during an absence of five or six days a female lizard died , but was not noticed by the attendant in charge .
On my return I found that it had contained twelve fully formed eggs ; they had , however , begun to putrefy .
A second female laid ten eggs , which proved insertile .
A third , which promised well , died from inability to lay its eggs .
It was closely watched , and dissected within an hour of its death .
The oviducts contained four and five eggs respectively , fully formed and ready for laying .
From these eggs were obtained a number of embryos at various stages of development , from a stage equal to a two days ' chick up to a stage shortly before hatch-ing .
This year I hoped to obtain a further supply of embryos , but only one female has laid , and her eggs were insertile .
The eggs of the tuatara are oval in form , both ends being of equal diameter , and vary in length from 2*5 to 3'35 cm .
The egg-shell is probably much like that of other oviparous lizards , being tough , flexible , I and very elastic ; it contains a varying amount of carbonate of lime .
J ^he eggs dry and shrivel with great readiness when exposed to the Dr. F. Semon .
On Position of the [ June 12 , air , and must , therefore , be kept in damp surroundings .
On the other hand , excess of moisture encourages the growth of micro-organisms in the mucus with which the eggs are frequently covered when laid , and such foreign growths tend to the destruction of the contents .
On the whole , the general features of the development are closely similar to those in other lizards- ; I propose , therefore , to reserve the details until a complete account-can be given .
I may , however , mention that the pineal eye becomes a prominent feature at an early stage .
When pigment is deposited in the skin , an oval spot is left free from it over the eye , and through this the dark pigment of the retina shows clearly .
Spencer* has stated"that there is in Sphenodon very little external trace of the pinesil eye .
" This is true of the adult , but in the recently hatched tuatara the pineal eye still shows as a dark spot through the translucent Skin over the parietal foramen .
This I have been able to observe even in a tuatara 8 inches in length .
But as the tuatara grows older the skin over the pineal eye becomes more opaque , and though in some individuals the scantier development of the pigment over the parietal foramen affords a feeble indication of the position of the eye , yet in others the pigment is deposited there as elsewhere , so that all external trace of the eye is finally lost .
Y. " On the Position of the Yocal Cords in Quiet Respiration of Man , and .on the Reflex-T onus of their Abductor Muscles .
" By Felix .SEMON , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Assistant Physician in charge of the Throat Department of St. Thomas 's Hospital , and .Laryngologist to the National Hospital for Epilepsy and Paralysis , Queen Square .
Communicated by Professor Yictor Horsley , F.R.S* Received May 25 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation which forms the -subject of this paper was undertaken with a view of settling , if possible , the moot question whether in man the larynx during quiet respiration plays an active r61e or not , and , if the former , what is its function ?
For this purpose the author has examined , by means of graduated mirrors , the size.of the glottis during quiet respiration in fifty adult trained healthy persons , and , after death , in twenty-five adult bodies .
The method of the examination and the precautions necessary to guard against possible fallacies are fully described in the paper .
A comparison of the measurements thus obtained shows that in less than 20 per cent , the vocal cords during quiet respiration perform * 1 Quart .
Jo\#171 ; rn .
Microsc .
Science , ' vol. 27 , p. 176 .

