The reading of Sir Charles Bell 's paper " On the Organs of the Human Voice , " was resumed and concluded .
The author complains that the actions of the organs of the voice have been negligently treated by physiologists , and that many of the officcs of the structures subservient to that function have been overlooked ; and expects that the study of them will lay a foundation for prosecuting the intricate anatomy of the nerves of the neck , which he proposes to himself as an ulterior object .
The subjects to which he particularly directs his attention in the present paper , are the Muscularity of the Trachea , the Position of the Thyroid Gland , and the Action of the Pharynx , which he alleges to have been entirely omitted in previous systematic accounts of articulate language .
The trachea is strengthened by imperfect circles of cartilage , the ends of which are united at the back part of the tube by a transverse layer of muscular fibres , ?
a structure which is very dis ?
tinctly seen in the horse .
This transverse muscle is an antagonist to the elasticity of the cartilages , and the effect of its action during expiration is , by contracting the diameter of the tube , to favour the propulsion of the mucous secretion , which may have been accumulated in the passage , and to contribute effectually to expel it by the effort of coughing .
The same action leads also to the expulsion of foreign bodies which may have accidentally got into the trachea .
In birds , where the inner surface of the passage is without moist ?
ur , no such provision was required j and accordingly we find the cartilages of the trachea are complete circles , not admitting of con ?
traction .
\03 The author considers the thyroid gland as serving the purpose of interrupting the vibrations of tho cartilages of the trachea , to which it is closely attached , especially when pressed against it by the actions of the flat muscles which extend over it .
If sound were given out by the vibrations of the trachea , it would interfere with the distinctness of the voice .
The thyroid gland is , therefore , placed low in the larynx , and on the upper part of the trachea , for the purpose of checking the vibrations of that tube , and suppressing the sounds that would thence be produced .
In birds , where the voice originates in the inferior larynx , and is propagated along the trachea , the structure of that tube is adapted to vibration , the circles of cartilage being complete , and there is no thyroid gland .
In man , the primary source of the voice is the vibration of the chordae vocalcs , or ligaments of the glottis , acted upon by the impulsion of the air passing by them .
The proper degree of tension is given by these ligaments by the action of the muscles , which adjust their position with the greatest accuracy .
The movements of the chest , which regulate the expulsion of the air , are at the same time adapted with great nicety to the production of the required effect .
The sacculi laryngis also contribute to give greater extent and freedom to the vibrations of the glottis .
It is by the concurrent action of these organs that the breath , which under ordinary circumstances of respiration is inaudible , becomes vocaU ized , or thrown into sonorous undulations .
The author then gives an anatomical description of the pharynx and mouth , which together constitute an irregular cavity , extending from the glottis to the lips and nostrils , and of which the various changes of dimension and of form effect corresponding changes in the undulations into which the air is originally thrown by the vibrations of the glottis , and produce the different modifi ?
cations of the voice .
The most important are those which con ?
stitute articulate sounds .
The simple vocal tones , or vowels , are greatly modified by the mere elongation orshortening of this cavity .
But even in the formation of these , the contraction and appulse of the pharynx acts an important part ; and in the articulation of the consonants it is a principal agent ; its smaller cavity being , upon a well-known hydrostatic principle , substituted with great economy of power for the more capacious cavity of the chest .
In pronouncing the explosive consonants , such as B , D , and G , the velum pendulum is raised , and , acting as a valve , closes the posterior nares ; and the mouth being also closed , the vocalized breath , which continues to ascend through the glottis , suffers condensation , and gives rise to the faint sound which precedes the explosion consequent upon the opening of the closed cavity .
This opening takes place , either by the separation of the lips , or by the removal of the tongue from the teeth , or palate , to which it had been applied .
These pre ?
vious actions of the pharynx and glottis are the circumstances which distinguish the sound of these letters from their corresponding mute consonants , P , T , and K. Thus the consonants , classed according to their formation in the mouth , either by the closed lips , the meeting of the lips and teeth , or the meeting of the tongue and palate , admit of varieties dependent on the actions of the pharynx and velum palati .
Theemphasis and accent given to particular syllables arise from two sources : namely , the variation in the action of the chest , and in the action of the pharynx .
This minute accommodation of action evinces not merely the perfection of the organ , hut also its great subordination to the will ; and in this respect the muscular apparatus of the throat admits of comparison with the delicate adjustments in the eye .
Stammering arises , not from the defect in any single part , but from imperfect power of combining the requisite actions .
The author concludes by enumerating the variety of actions which must be combined before a word is uttered : namely , the compression of the thorax , the adjustment of the glottis , the elevation or depression of the larynx , and the contraction of the pharynx .
He also adduces proofs of the correctness of the opinions advanced in this paper , drawn from the effects of accident and of disease occurring under his own observation ; and from which he draws the following conclusions : ?
That the trachea gives out no sound of itself ; that when the area of the passage is much diminished , the column of air has not sufficient force to move the chordae vocales - , that whatever interferes directly with the motion of the glottis reduces the voice to a whisper ; that any permanent opening or defect of the velum , which prevents the distention of the pharynx and the closing of the posterior nares , renders articulation defective j that the obstruction or removal of the cells of the face deprives the voice of its body and clearness ; and that nervous relaxation of the muscles of the throat is productive of great alteration in the voice .
Hence the author infers the necessity of the numerous nerves which are distributed to these organs .

