III .
" On the Nebule of Argo and Orion , and on the Spectrum of Jupiter .
" By A. LE SUEuTR .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 21 , 1870 .
Among the following observations made with the great Melbourne telescope , the most important are those of rj Argo ; the spectrum of this star is crossed by bright lines .
The mere fact of a bright-line spectrum is not very difficult to ascertain on a good night ; for although from faintness of the light the phenomenon is necessarily delicate , yet the bright lines occasionally flash out so sharply that the character of the spectrum cannot be mistaken .
The most marked 245 lines I make out to be , if not coincident with , very near to C , D , b , F , and the principal green nitrogen line .
There are possibly other lines , but those mentioned are the only ones manageable .
Direct spark comparison has hitherto been found impossible ; though plainly marked at moments the lines require concentrated attention , and will not permit the disturbing effect of other light in the field ; attempts were made to diminish the brilliancy of the spark spectrum but with no good result , a different method was therefore adopted .
By watching for good moments the pointer was placed on a particular star line , the spark spectrum was then turned on , and the position of the pointer noted .
By this means it was seen in repeated trials that star lines within the limits of the dispersion used ( about 7 ?
) were coincident with C , F , the principal green nitrogen line , and b , or rather ( the spark employed was platinum in air ) the air-band involved in b group .
It cannot be determined whether the coincidence is with the magnesium group or the airband ; nothing more definite can be said than that the star line lies within the limits of the group .
The comparison spectrum employed does not show F , but the position of the previously adjusted pointer , with reference to air lines in the neighbourhood , leaves little doubt as to the identity of the blue star line with F , due regard being had to the collateral evidence ( when such close limits are reached ) that C coincides with a red star line .
The yellow ( or orange ?
) line in the star has not yet received sufficient attention ; it is , however , very near D. With the dispersion employed , D and the bright air line on less refrangible side of D are well separated ; so that , notwithstanding the delicacy of the star line , I hope , if not to get satisfactory evidence of coincidence with a particular line , at least to eliminate one of the competitors ; at present it cannot even be said whether the line may not be slightly more refrangible than ID ; the limits are , however , very small , placing the bright air group about 1180 of Mr. Huggins 's scale completely outside the possible range .
I would remark that the very faint nebulosity ( if any ) in the immediate neighbourhood of the star ?
7 is incompetent to give a trace of spectral lines with even a wide slit ; for a considerable space s. and f. of vj no lines are at all visible ; the nearest nebula bright enough to show a line ( the three usual lines are now easily seen on a good night over the brighter parts ) is reached in the direction about 45 ?
n. p. from y ?
, and even then the distance from ?
r , as judged by the appearance in the spectroscope with v ] threaded on the thus directed slit , is little less than one minute .
This remark is of some importance in connexion with the ordinary telescopic observations of the nebula , but is mentioned at this point to relieve any impression which might arise that the nitrogen line seen on the star spectrum is merely the chief nebula line crossing it . ?
1 cr P1 o ' p : ?
---- ? ? ?
?-- ?
;- ? ? ? ? ?
; ? ? ?
?------ ?
---- ? ? ?
?-- ?
- ?
------O.-u .
i_. .
i-"p " ; .cj- , : iW " .C.'.''-- " !
?'ii ?
s ; ? ? ? ?
- ?
- ; -- !
: : : ; :I- : ?
::I : : : : : : -::ii . ?
: ; ::'-::.i ii : ?
i ; : : : : : 1 ` , ; ; ? ? ? ?
Cze : ?
iI ?
; 1 : o : 1 ; ::i I ; ?
i : i- ?
: ?
zl- ?
-i::-iu ?
: : I ?
:iii .
-i : , lX Q , !
I:rq ilGS t. ; : ?
; : i 1.i\ i ajk-a ; :iBi -I ; ?I h Isi !
3 i:::1 : ; .
: : ; v ; ; ir ; B:::::'I ii II . ?
: ir j !
co 'i 1:3 i : : iTz ir CCC U. .
, -/ e OUTL .
c ' ?
I Q- ) t-(7 ) r-O r--i I !
r4 c:~ In the present state of the inquiry there is little doubt left as to the presence of hydrogen in the star ; the other lines may perhaps be accounted for by nitrogen alone , or by nitrogen , magne'sium , and sodium .
On the whole the weight of collateral evidence will probably be considered to be in favour of the latter combination , with the possibility that for sodium may have to be substituted the substance which produces the line in sun-protuberance spectrum .
For although there is no direct evidence as to identity of the line near D , if the coincidence were with the orange nitrogen line it would be reasonable to expect a line in the star corresponding to the yellow line 1180 + , yet none has been made out in that position ; again , the second green line has probably less claims for visibility than the orange or yellow lines , yet in the star spectrum this line is not less well seen than that coinciding with the chief nitrogen line .
These considerations , though perhaps not entitled to great weight , at least lead in the direction of the above inference .
Owing to faintness of the general spectrum no dark lines are made out ; one in the red is strongly suspected , and occasionally there is an appearance as if of a multitude over the spectrum generally , but they refuse to be seen separately and certainly .
It is fortunate that these observations have been possible in the present magnitude of the star ; may not the bright-line character of the spectrum be due to a commencement of increase ?
The star has not perceptibly changed since I knew it .
I extract the following estimation from the Melbourne observations : Mag. 'l 1863 .
Oct. 14 ... ... . .
5 1864 .
May 6 ... ... . .
4 ' 5 , , , 19 ... ... .
45 The estimations are by Mr. 1865 .
, , 22 ... ... . .
45 White , who has charge of the June 4 ... ... .
45 Transit Circle .
Mr. Ellery es1868 .
April 21 ... ... .
4 timated it last year as a6 + , , , May 27 ... ... . .
4 and now thinks it is somewhat , , 26 ... . .
5 brighter .
1869 .
, , 2 ... ... . .
62 , , , , 11 ... ... . .
62 .
, , , 30 ... ... .
6 At an earlier stage of the observations with the Melbourne reflector , I was on the whole inclined to think that the difference between the view of the nebula about n Argo as seen with the 4-feet reflector , and that seen by Sir J. Herschel with his 18-inch , though strongly marked in the neighbourhood of rq , was yet , due regard being had to aperture and other disturbing causes , capable of being accounted for without .
going to the length of assuming such enormous changes as would result if the sketches represented the true facts in both cases .
It was thought that the presence of the star ni might have a large disturbing effect , increased by aperture , and that therefore an erroneous impression might be formed of the confi guration and character of the nebula in its proximate neighbourhood .
( The trapezium of Orion , as will be seen from observations to be presently recorded , is a case in point .
) The spectroscope has , however , decided that n in no way influences the configuration as now seen ; the star is not only apparently but really on a background , if not completely dark , at least free from nebulosity at all comparable to the brighter parts ; moreover the nebulosity at s. end of lemniscate ( the shape there is occasionally made out , showing that nebula does exist ) is of a similar faint character .
With this evidence that the eye-view with the 4-feet approaches the actual facts , and a due consideration of those facts , it seems difficult to imagine any conditions of aperture , definition , or other disturbing causes which could produce a view at all approaching to that seen by Sir John Herschel .
We have therefore evidence of much weight that enormous changes have taken place in this wonderful region .
Is not the presence of nitrogen and hydrogen in the star na significant fact in connexion with these changes , which appear to be nothing less than a destruction of nebula specially in its neighbourhood ?
Orion has been examined with a new and interesting result ; the spectroscope proves that in and about the trapezium nebula exists comparable with the bright surrounding nebula .
This observation is rendered easy by the large separation of the stars consequent on great focal length of telescope ; indeed the whole separation of the original image is not required , the observation being made more crucial by a condension of between two and three times ; with this arrangement the separation is still sufficient , and the advantage is gained of viewing at the same time the bright surrounding nebula .
The stars , sharply focused to give a linear spectrum , being threaded on the slit singly or in pairs , or cautiously removed out of the field , it is seen that the bright lines cross the trapezium with little if at all diminished brilliancy .
The ordinary telescopic view is therefore an erroneous one , produced by the disturbing effect of the bright group .
Jupiter has been examined ( generally on moonlight nights ) ; with this object the orginal Cassegrain image is too faint for good work , but by interposition of a suitable lens the image is condensed at pleasure within certain limits ; with the light thus increased the Fraunhofer lines G , F , b , E , D are always easily seen , C also easily on a clear night ; the lines to which special attention has been directed are the telluric lines 914 and 838 ( for convenience of reference I use throughout the numbers in Mr. Huggins 's , Jupiter and sky diagram ) .
These are the only lines seen with certainty between C and D. The identity of 914 and 838 rests partly on measures and partly on spark comparison , where , for the identification of 914 , it is seen that this line is near to the air band 807 of Mr. Huggins 's chemical scale .
The line 914 is so easily seen , that having in mind Mr. Huggins 's statement concerning the difficulty of discerning it at all , originally very imperfect measures on a bad night and with the apparatus imperfectly adjusted misleading in the same direction , this line was at first mistaken for 882 , from which , however , it is separated far beyond the limit of error in a proper state of adjustment of apparatus .
882 is not seen at all with Jupiter at considerable altitude .
On the night of December 29th , however , between the hours of 12.30 and 1 , Jupiter being low , 882 was seen almost as conspicuous as 914 , which , I may remark , did not seem to have perceptibly increased in darkness by the additional absorption of the earth 's atmosphere .
On the night of December 14th ( both objects being near the meridian ) the spectroscope was turned on Jupiter and the moon alternately several times .
On Jupiter 914 and 838 were easily visible , the former ( as usual ) the more conspicuous ; on the moon no line could be certainly made out between C and D. Mr. Ellery was present at the time and gave the same verdict .
So far these observations are merely confirmatory of those made by Mr. Huggins .
There is one point , however , not unworthy of consideration , arising from a comparison of the observations in connexion with the conditions under which they are made .
It is probable that Mr. Huggins , with his earlier apparatus , was under more favourable conditions as regards light than , if not the best at my command , at least those under which 914 is now plainly seen .
When condensed as much as arrangements allow ( about four times ) , I probably get a somewhat brighter image at the slit than that produced by Mr. Huggins 's telescope ; but with little or no condensation , and a dispersion of near 7 ?
( B to H=6 ? ?
50 ' ) , the line in question is still conspicuous .
Yet Mr. Iluggins speaks of this line as barely distinguishable , or not at all visible with his earlier apparatus .
Width of slit , of course , plays a prominent part ; but I cannot be wrong in assuming that , for prospecting purposes , Mr. Huggins tried various widths .
Moreover when the slit is gradually cut down , 914 is visible as long as the chief Fraunhofer lines , and is still readily seen when the light is insufficient to show a trace of C or 838 near it .
These considerations , if not entitled to much weight , at least point to a possible variability of the line in question .
If this prove to be the case , it will be interesting to note its degree of visibility in connexion with the character of the surface at the different times of observation .
I cannot find whether 914 or 838 is involved in the lines proved by M. Jansen as special to aqueous vapour .
An answer one way or the other would be equally interesting ; for Mr. Huggins 's observations and my own later ones ( which are indeed merely corroborative ) go far to prove that , whatever the cause of the lines , that which produces 914 and 838 has on Jupiter more efficacy than that which produces 882 , while the reverse appears to be the case on the earth .
Jupiter was taken in hand specially to note any peculiarity in the spectrum of different parts of the surface , as regards general or specific absorption .
The best observations were made on the night of December 11th , when the phenomena were as given in the diagram ( Plate I. fig. 2 ) , to which the second figure of Jupiter is added merely for any additional interest to be derived from two views on the same night ( a at 9.30 , b at 11.30+ ) .
The space NP is slightly yellowish , and appears at good defining moments to be crossed by a multitude of fine hair lines ( this has been seen more than once ) ; PQ is white , and considerably brighter than the general surface ; QR dusky yellow , much darker than N P ; RT white ; TS similar to P Q , but more approaching to white .
P , Q , R , T dark brown with occasional suspicion of green tinge .
The spectrum , as given in the diagram , is an inversion ( to suit telescopic image of planet ) of what is seen in the spectroscope with the slit perpendicular to Jupiter 's equator .
The absorption of Q , R is most marked beyond F , fading gradually away to about E ; beyond this Q , R are seen separately with an apparently undiminished spectrum between them ; PQ is much brighter than the general spectrum , and is normal throughout ; TR occasionally flashes out brightly ; P stretches equally across the spectrum ; T is most marked at the less refrangible end ( the reverse of this was the case for one of the belts on a former occasion ) .
A special point aimed at in these observations was to note any peculiarity in the lines 914 , 838 as they cross the various parts of the surface in this position of the slit , but no satisfactory evidence could be elicited .
As before mentioned , by the interposition of a suitable lens the image , still focused on the slit , may be condensed at pleasure within certain limits ; a point is therefore chosen at which the compromise between brilliancy of spectrum and size of image is deemed most suitable for the object in view .
The light is quite adequate for the purpose when the bands T Q , QR are still of considerable width ; any difference , if not very slight , in the line 914 as it crossed the different bands ought therefore to have been detected .
This was not the case .
The experiment was tried of placing the slit parallel to the bands , but with no new result .
Melbourne Observatory , January 3 , 1870 .

