]\gt ; A New Formation of Diamond .
By Sir WILLIAM CItOOKES , Hon. D.Sc .
( Oxford and Dubl F.R.S. ( Received July 20 , 1905 .
) -Point and Jfdting-Point of Carbon .
On the average the critical point of a substance is times its absolute boiling-point .
Therefore the critical point of carbon should be about 5800o Ab .
But the absolute critical temperature divided by the critical pressure is for all the elements so far examined never less than ; this being about the value Sir James Dewar finds for hydrogen .
So that , accepting this , we get the maximum critical pressure as follows , viz. , 2320 atmospheres:\mdash ; , or , or 2320 atmospheres .
5800o Ab .
Carbon and arsenic are the only two elements that have a -point above the boiling-point ; and among compounds carbonic acid and fluoride of silicium are the only other bodies with similar properties .
Now the meltingpoint of arsenic is about times its absolute boiling-point .
With carbonic acid and fluoride of icium the melting-points are about times their boiling-points .
Applying these ratios to carbon we find that its melting-point would be about 4400o .
Therefore , assuming the following data , Boiling-point 387 Ab .
Melting-point . .
4400o Critical temperature . .
5800o Critical pressure . .
2320 Ats .
the Rankine or Van der Waals formula calculated from the boiling-point and critical data would be as follows:\mdash ; and this gives for a temperature of 440 Ab .
a pressure of Ats .
as the melting-point pressure .
The results of the formula are given in the form of a table:\mdash ; A New Formation of Temperature Pressure .
Ab .
Ats .
Boiling-point .
4000o 4200o 4400o Melting-point .
4600o 4800o 5000o 193 5200o 386 5600o 1330 5800o 2320 Critical point ( 15 tons per square inch ) .
If then we may reason from these rough estimates , above a temperature of 5800o Ab .
no amount of pressure will cause carbon vapour to assume liquid form , whilst at 4400o Ab .
a pressure of above 17 atmospheres would suffice to liquefy some of it .
Between these extremes the curve of vapour pressure is assumed to be logarithmic , as represented in the diagram .
The constant 39120 which occurs in the logarithmic formula enables us to calculate the latent heat of evaporation .
If we assume the vapour density to be normal , or the molecule in vapour as , then the heat of tion of 12 grammes of carbon would be 90,000 calories ; or , if the vapour is a condensed molecule like , then the 12 grammes would need 30,000 tlories .
In the latter case the evaporation of 1 gramme of carbon would require 2500 calories , whereas a substance like zinc needs only about 400 calories .
Formation of I have long speculated as to the possibility of obtaining artificially such pressures and temperatures as would fulfil the above conditions .
In their researches on the gases from fired gunpowder and cordite , Sir Frederick Abel and Sir Andrew Noble obtained in closed steel cylinders pressures as great as 95 tons to the square inch , and temperatures as high as 4000o C. to a paper recently communicated to Royal Society , Sir Andrew Noble , exploding cordite in closed vessels , has obtained a pressure of 8000 atmospheres , or 50 tons per square inch , with a temperature reaching in all probability 5400o Ab .
Here , then , we have conditions favourable for the liquefaction of carbon , and were the time of explosion sufficient to allow the reactions to take place , we should certainly expect to get the liquid carbon to solidify in the crystalline state .
* Sir James Dewar , in a Friday Evening I)iscourse at the Royal Institution , 1880 , Sir Wiliam Crookes .
[ July 20 , showed an experiment proving that the temperature of the interior of a carbon tube heated by an outside electric arc was higher than that of the oxy-hydrogen flame .
He placed a few small crystals of diamond in the carbon tube , and , maintaining a current of hydrogen to prevent oxidation , raised the temperature of the tube in an electric furnace to that of the arc .
In a few minutes the diamond was transformed into graphite .
At first sight this would seem to show that diamond cannot be formed at temperatures above that of the arc .
It is probable , however , for reasons given above , that at exceedingly high pressures the result would be different .
1905 .
] A New Formation of By the kindness of Sir Andrew Noble I have been enabled to work upon some of the residues obtained in closed vessels after explosions , and I have submitted them to the same treatment that Moissan 's granulated iron had gone through .
* After weeks of patient toil I removed the amorphous carbon , the graphite , the silica , and other constituents of the ash of cordite , and obtained a residue among which , under the microscope , crystalline particles could be distinguished .
Some of these particles , from their crystalline appearance and double refrac ion , were silicon carbide ; others probably diamonds .
The whole residue was dried and fused at a good red heat in an excess of potassium bifluoride , to which was added during fusion 5 per cent. of nitre .
( Previous experiments had shown me that this mixture readily attacked and dissolved silicon carbide ; unfortunately 10 also attacks diamond to a slight degree .
) The residue , after thorough washing and then heating in fuming sulphuric acid , was washed , dried , and the largest crystalline particles picked out and mounted .
All the operations of washing and acid treatment were performed in a large platinum crucible by decantation ( except the prehminary attack with nitric acid and potassium , when a hard glass vessel was used ) ; the final result was washed into a shallow watch-glass and the selection made under the microscope .
From the treatment these crystals have undergone , chemists will agree with me that diamonds only could stand such an ordeal ; on submitting them to skilled crystallographic authorities my opinion is confirmed .
Speaking of one crystal ( 303 ) , Professor Bonney calls it " " a dian ) showing octahedral planes with dark boundaries due to refracting index After careful examination , Professor Miers writes of the same crystal diamond:\mdash ; " " I think one may safely say that the position and angles of its faces , and of its cleavages , the absence of birefringence , and the high refractive index , are all compatible with the propertles of the diamond crystallismg the form of an octahedron .
Others of the remaining crystals , which show a similar high refractive index , appeared to me to present the same features It would have been more conclusive had I been able to further evidence as to the density and hardness of the crystals ; but I am still working at the subject , and hope to add these confirmatory tests .
From what I have already said I think there is no doubt that in these -vessel explosions we have another method of producing the diamond artificially .
' Chemical News , , p. 14 , July 9 , 1897 .
silica was in the form of spheres , perfectly shaped and transparent , mostly colourless , but among them several of a ruby colour .
When 5 per cent. of silica was added to cordite , the residue of the closed-vessel explosion contained a much quantity of these spheres .

