An Account of some Experiments with a large Voltaic Battery .
By J. G. Children , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 15 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 363 .
] The battery with which these experiments were made , has 21 cells , each containing about 40 gallons of water , to which was added a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids , at various intervals , beginning with.-- , th , and ending with I th part of the water .
Into each cell was immersed a zinc plate , with a pair of copper plates , one on each side , but connected together at the bottom , and also duly connected to the zinc in the cell adjacent .
Each plate had 16 square feet of surface .
The first series of experiments were on the comparative liability of different metals to be ignited by the power of this battery , by joining equal lengths of any two wires in the same line , and making the circuit through both thus connected .
In the comparison of platina and iron , which of all metals are most easily ignited , the difference was so little , that their comparative ignition altered during the experiment in consequence of apparent difference in their capacities , as well as conducting powers .
i Of other metals , gold and copper were nearly equal , and far less easily ignited than the former .
After them stood zinc ; and last of all silver .
Mr. Children observes , that the order of these metals , as conductors of electricity , nearly follows that of their powers to conduct heat .
When this battery was excited to its utmost , it ignited 5feet of platina wire one ninth of an inch in diameter .
A bar of platina , one sixth of an inch square and 24 inches long , 'was heated red , and fused at each end .
A round rod , one fourth of an inch in diameter and 2I inches long , was heated bright red throughout .
Oxide of tungsten was partially reduced .
Oxide of tantalum was partly fused , and of a reddish brown colour .
Oxides of uranium and titanium were fused , but not reduced .
Oxide of molybdena was fused and reduced .
Oxide of iridium , with osmium , was fused to a globule .
Pure iridium was fused into an imperfect globule , having specific gravity 18 68 .
Of earthy bodies , ruby and sapphire were not fused .
Blue spinel ran to a slag .
A Magnesia was agglutinated .
Quartz was not affected .
This opportunity was taken by Mr. Pepys of attempting the conversion of iron into steel by union with diamond , which appeared to have been accomplished .
A wire of good soft iron , having been slit longitudinally with a fine saw , the slit was filled with diamond powder , and the whole having then been wrapped round with a piece of muscovy talc , was bound together with a fine iron wire .
Although the *wire thus prepared was by no means intensely ignited , and for no longer a time than six minutes , no part of the diamond powder was to be found after the experiment , and the iron was found converted into a sort of blistered steel ; for it was hardened by quenching while hot , so as to resist the file , and to scratch glass with facility .
Beside the experiments above made with three plates connected in succession as a powerful battery by the action of acids on their surfaces , a trial was made whether at the moment of contact between very large metallic surfaces , any degree of ignition could be rendered visible .
All the zinc plates were connected together as one zinc plate , and also all the copper plates connected as one copper plate .
A communication was then made between the two sets of plates thus , connected , but not immersed in a fluid , and all the electricity supposed to move in consequence of the contact , was made to pass through a wire of platina - , - , ,th of an inch in diameter , and about '28 ylth of an inch in length ; but there was no appearance of ignition , although the same wire may be instantly ignited by a single pair of one inch plates immersed in a weak acid .

