1891 .
] Prof. S. P. Thompson .
439 results than can be often obtained by assuming that a so-called non-inductive circuit is really non-inductive , and , therefore , that the apparent power is the true power .
IV .
" On Galvano-Hysteresis .
( Preliminary Notice .
) " By Silvanus P. Thompson , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Professor of Physics in the City and Guilds Technical College , Finsbury .
Communicated by Professor G. Carey Foster , B.A. , B.Sc. , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1891 .
1 .
If a sufficiently strong electric current is passed through a coil of insulated soft iron wire for a short time , and the wire then disconnected , and if , after the lapse of any length of time , the wire is placed in the circuit of a galvanometer , and is then subjected to longitudinal magnetisation or to a succession of alternately directed longitudinal magnetisations , it is found to discharge an electric- current through the galvanometer .
2 .
The direction of the current discharged .
' from , the iron wire is found to be the same as that of the current which was originally passed through it .
9* The direction of the discharge current is opposite to that in which the discharge current would flow if the wire acted as a condenser .
4 .
A wire which has once produced such a discharge current will not produce a second unless again traversed by a charging current .
5 .
A wire which has not been subjected to any preliminary process of charging , that is to .
say , one which since being annealed has not been traversed by an electric current , does not sensibly show any such phenomena , either when subjected to longitudinal magnetisation or to a succession of alternate magnetisations .
6 .
The sense of the discharge current is quite independent of the direction of the longitudinal magnetisation used in producing the disturbance which effects the discharge .
' .
The time-integral of the discharge current is independent of the duration of the charging current , provided this is not too suddenly turned off .
It increases with the strength of the charging current up to a certain limit , being proportional to it through a certain range 'f values , but is not proportional to it for currents below or above 'certain limits of strength .
These limits vary with the gauge of the ^lr6j but are independent of its length .
For a charging current of Slven strength the discharge current from a given wire is greatest !
*\#187 ; charging current is gradually reduced to zero and not abruptly r'hen by a spark .
The time-integral of the discharge Current is practically inde440 Presents .
[ Apr. 9 , pendent of the intensity of the longitudinally-applied magnetising force if the latter exceeds a certain minimum value .
9 .
The author has investigated these phenomena by means of ring cores constructed of iron wire ( annealed ) covered with insulating material overwound with insulated copper-wire coils , the latter being wound in every case in a helix returning axially upon itself , so that the current in this copper wire should have null effect in directly-generating any induced electromotive forces along the iron-wire core .
10 .
The effects obtained are considered by the author to he akin to those obtained by Villari , * in 1865 , by the mechanical agitation of iron bars through which electric -currents had been previously passed , and , like the effects of Villari , to be due to the production and subsequent disappearance of a circular magnetisation .
They are also akin to those observed by Hughesf with the induction balance .
11 .
The author has been able to imitate and reproduce these effects by th i use of copper wires immersed in iron filings , and surrounded by a magnetising coil wound so as to return axially upon itself .
Presents , April 9 , 1891 .
Transactions .
Calcutta:\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal .
Vol. LVIII .
Parti .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1890 ; Journal .
Vol. LVIII .
Part 2 .
No. 5 .
Vol. LIX .
Nos. 2-3 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1890 ; Proceedings .
1890 .
Nos. 4\#151 ; 10 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1890-1891 .
The Society .
Indian Museum .
Catalogue of the Mantodea .
No. 2 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1891 .
The Museum .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Harvard College .
Annual Reports .
1889-90 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1891 .
The College .
Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XX .
No. 8 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1891 .
The Museum .
Edinburgh :\#151 ; Geological Society .
Transactions .
Vol. VI .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1890 .
The Society .
Royal Society .
Transactions .
Vol. XXXIV ( The Meteorology of Ben Nevis ) .
4to .
Edinburgh 1890 .
The Director , Ben Nevis Observatory .
Essex Eield Club .
The Essex Naturalist .
Vol. IV .
Nos. 10-12 .
8vo .
Euckhurst Hill 1891 .
The Club .
Heidelberg :\#151 ; Naturhistorisch-Medicinischer Verein .
Verhand-luugen .
Bd .
IV .
Heft 4 .
8vo .
Heidelberg 1891 .
The Society .
* ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' vol. 126 , 1865 , p. 87 .
t * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 31 , 1881 , p. 531 .

