VII .
" On the Effects produced by Freezing , on the Physiological Properties of Muscles .
" By MICHAEL FOSTER , B.A. , M.D. Lond. Comninuniicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. IReceived June 4 , 1860 .
The influence of cold ulponi animal life has been studied chiefly ( as for example in reference to the phenomena of hybernation ) at such degrees of temperature only as are insufficient to freeze the tissues .
In cases of actual freezing , attention seems for the most part to have been directed to the organism as a whole , with a view of determining the question whether an animal apparently frozen to death could be revived .
The older writers-0 ofteni allude to the revival of frozen insects as a familiar fact .
Rudolphit states that frozen Filariae are brought to life upon thawing .
Franklin found frozen fishes revive on thawing ; yet John Hunterl i ever succeeded in restoring the animals he had frozen , Onie element of unicertainty in such experiments ( in those on vertebrate animals at least ) is the difficulty of making sure that the heart itself is frozeni , without interfering with the expected result .
In the experiments of a later observer , Dumeril ?
, it seems clear that the hearts of the frogs he froze and recovered , were not frozen , though the inrtestines were .
Spallaizanill seems to have been the only one among , the older writers who studied the freezing of muscles removed from the influience of the general blood-currenit , and that only in an indirect way .
He revived irritability in the muscles of frogs , toads , and salamanders , which , after immersion for several hours in snow , had become rigid , " presque gelees , " and gave nio contraction upon being stimulated .
But lie states that muscles frozein by a more intense cold lost their irritability for ever .
IHis means of stimulation were chiefly mechanical .
There seems fair reason to suspect that the muscles which recovered their irritability were but partially frozen , had but partially lost their irritability , and would have exhibited a decided contraction when treated by those modifications of the galvanic stimuluns which the rmodern physiologist has at his commland .
Spallanzani 1 , in another work , states that frozen snails died .
Among later writers , the only authority I can find is Schiiff , who states** , " A sufficiently intelnse degree of cold will render muscles rigid , and yet so that they can be revived .
It is not clearly made out though whether this is accompanied by any contraction .
" And again , p. 46 , " Frogs ' muscles bear freezing without irretrievable loss of irritability for a longer time than they will exposure to that dleo , ree of heat wich r esembles frost in depriving themil of irritfa bility .
' I-Having myself made some experiments on this subject , I venituire to lay them before the Society .
Two methods were adopted to freeze the muscles .
In most instances I securely enclosed them in little bags of thin gutta percha , and so buried them in a mixture of salt and snow , or pounded ice .
At other times I suspended them in pure olive oil , contained in a small vessel surrounded by the freezing mixture ; having previously ascertained that immersion for two hours at least in the same oil , at an ordinary temperature , had no injurious effect upon muscular irritability .
The results I came to were as follows 1 .
Completely frozen muscles are not irritable to the strongest stimulus we possess .
2 .
Muscles which have been frozen for a short time only ( five or ten minutes at the longest ) may regain their irritability on being thawed .
3 .
Muscles which have been frozen for more than ten minutes never regain their irritability .
The loss of irritability seems to be due more to the occurrenee of freezing than to any mere fall of temperature .
For although the irritability does diminish with the fall of temperature , and markedly so when the freezing-point of water is neared , yet the great loss and finial extinction takes place only when the tissue itself is frozen .
I know of no method of treating a muscle so as to lower the freezing-point of the water contained in its tissuie , without so injuring it as to renider such a procedure useless for the present purpose .
In order that the irritability of any muiscle should wholly disappear , the muscle must be wholly frozen .
A muscle may be in great part frozen , and yet capable of producing a movement when stimulated , by the contraction of the unfrozen part .
The passage into the frozein state is accompanied by no contraction .
Frogs ' linmbs freeze exactly in the same position which they were previously maintaining , ; and when ) the individual muscles were frozen singly , I was unable to satisfy myself of the occulrrence of any contraction .
Nor could I assure myself of the advent of any physiological rigidity distiniguishable from the physical frozeni state .
The reaction of frozeln muscle , as indicated by litmus paper , is neutral or faintly alkalinie , thus differing from recently dead muscles .
It is not the mere rigidity of the frozen muscle which mechanically , so to speak , prevents contraction , for irritability does not at once and fully returni upon thawing .
An interval of time may with care be detected in most cases , during which the muscle is already thawed , but yet not irritable ; and irritability returns gradually .
There is no exact relationl between the duration of the frozen state and the duration and amount of the revived irritability .
It is not the case that a muscle frozen three minuites regains twice as much irritability , or remains afterwards irritable twice as long as a muscle frozeni for six minutes .
The frost does not progressively exhaust as it were a given store , leaving , according as the operation is shorter or longer , more or less residue to be manifested when the muscle is thawed .
The amount of revived irritability will ( lepend in great measure on the treatment the muscles experience when first thawed .
The receipt then of a slight shock , which afterwards it will bear with impunity , if not with advantage , may be sufficient to throw it back altogether into death .
Nor is the present a case of mere stoppage of the wheels of life , which , when once set in motion again , go on as well as before .
Muscles once frozen , however kindly treated , evenitually die sooner than those left untouched .
There has beenl in the act of freezing a partial exhaustion of their vital forces .
I ascertained , by section , that muscles which afterwardst regained their irritability were frozen throughout .
Hence the revival of irritability cannot be supposed to depend upon any part having been left uniifrozen .
Nor , in muscles partially frozen , did the infrozen parts seem to have any influence over the life of the frozen parts .
In muscles which have been well frozen , the fibres are more readily separable from each other , and divisible into fibrille , than in those which die any ordinary death .
Under the microscope , the fibres are clouded and more opake than usual , the transverse strime genierally invisible , and in some cases the whole sarcous tissue seems to be converted into a conifused amorphous mass , lying loose in a sarcolemma , which is more strotngly definied than usual .
But these histological appearances have but little to do with the physiological pheniomena .
A muscle may be frozen so as to lose all irritability , and yet preserve its natural appearance .
Two muscles may be frozen so that both shall scarcely have a fibre that is not more opake than natural and that has not lost its strie .
, -both , in short , shall be affected anatomically , as far as we can at present tell , to the same degree , arid yet one will live and the other is dead .
In muscles which never regained their irritability , the act of thawing was accompanied by the onset of a pecuiliar rigor , which differed from the " , rigor mortis , " and resembled the " 1 rigor caloris " in being an active contraction , i. e. in producing a movement .
The hind leg of a frog , when rigor mortis comes on , retains the position it previously had , whether of flexion or extension .
Powerful excitation of the spinal cord or ischial plexus produces extreme extension .
Plunging into boiling water brings the flexed leg to extreme extension .
If the leg be killed by frost in a flexed condition , it will when thawed assume graduallythe position of extreme extension : so muscles , frozen singly , shorten when thawed .
This contraction is never seen in muscles destined to regain their irritability .
I have seen it come on in a muscle which had been frozen for three hours : it is a sure sign of death .
This contraction continues after the production of the movement as a peculiar rigidity , which vanishes only when the softening from decomposition becomes apparent .
The effect of low temperature on the frog 's heart is very peculiar .
There is a great diminution in the rate of rhythm , and very marked increase in the duration of each systole , so that sometimes the heart is frozen in a tetanic beat , as it were .
I have never seen a frozen heart resume its beat wThen thawed ; but I have often seen one part of the ventricle still beating while another part was frozen quite hard .
Similar results were obtained by freezing the muiscles of leeches and snails .
Frozen for a short time they recovered their irritability , for a longer time they died .
In the latter animals , not only was mere irritability recovered , but I have seen sniails , which I had every reason , by examining the state of snails of the same size frozen under exactly the saime conditions , to believe had been frozen throughout , regain voluntary motion , and crawl about with extended horns as if nothing had happened .
Their slowly altered blood does not seem to lose its virtues by having passed into a state of ice .
In the frog , the ret-urn of irritability is favoured by connexion with the general circulation .
A frog was secured with its hinid legs in a freezing mixture , the brain and spinal cord having been removed .
Ill a few minutes the legs were frozen stiff , and had lost all irritability .
After being frozen half au hour they were thawed .
Irritability returned .
Nerves , too , like muscles , lose their excitability when frozeni , and , like them , may regain it on being thawed if they have not been frozen too long .
I have always found a greater difficulty in recovering nerves than muscles , One very curious thing is this , that , as Eckard states * , when nerves are frozen , the muscles to which they are distributed are thrown into contractions ; and yet when muscles themselves are frozen , there is not only no tetanic spasm , but not necessarily even the smiallest quivering .

