166 The Validity of the Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place in Tissues .
By Alan N. Drury , B.A. , Shuttleworth Student of Gonville and Caius College .
( Communicated , with a Note , by W. B. Hardy , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1914 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) In the last few years endeavours have been made to locate precisely certain reactions known to occur in the living cell ; and much work has been done especially on the reduction place , the oxygen place , and the position of oxidases and peroxidases .
The reaction relied upon to indicate the position is always one involving a colour change ; as an example , Unna's* method of fixing the oxygen place in the cell may be chosen .
He uses for this purpose a solution of rongalit white , f which is a solution of the leucobase of methylene blue kept in a state of reduction by excess of rongalit , an adsorption product of formaldehyde with sodium sulphite .
This solution is not affected by air or by light , but is , according to Unna , a test for active oxygen .
He places the section in a solution of rongalit white for one minute , then washes in a large volume of water ; when , the reducer having been washed away , the tissue is able to show its ability to oxidise , and all the tissue elements which are capable of effecting an oxidation are blued owing to the oxidation of the methylene white to methylene blue .
Unna has noticed that it is possible to abolish the staining of the oxygen place by rongalit white , by the action of heat , neutral salts , alcohol , phenol , and other protoplasmic poisons , while an ordinary nuclear stain is not thus affected .
Also the intensity of staining can be altered by previous treatment with alcohol , formalin , or gum , while the action of a nuclear stain is unaltered .
He , therefore , asserts that the stained portions of the tissue are the oxygen places .
It is to be noticed that these comparisons are made between a very complex mixture , namely , rongalit white , and a simple solution of a dye , so that they are of little value unless controlled by an exact determination of the influence of the constituents of rongalit white on the absorption process .
* " Die Reduktionsorte und Sauerstofforte des tierischen Gewebes , " P. G. Unna , ' Arch. fUr Mikr .
Anat .
, ' vol. 78 ( 1911 ) .
t " Sir Chemie der Haut .
6.\#151 ; Hautreagentien , " Unna and Golodetz , 'Monatshefte f. Prakt .
Dermat .
, ' vol. 50 , p. 451 ( 1910 ) .
Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place in Tissues .
167 XJnna claims also that methyl green picks out the oxygen foci of the cell , and on experiments with this and other dyes he bases a claim that staining is controlled by the oxidising or reducing properties of the substances exposed to the stain .
Neither experiments nor conclusions are above criticism .
The problem of dyeing is to discover the conditions which control the condensation of the dye on to a surface separating a solid from a fluid .
The presence of oxygen must affect the process , since , like any other chemical substance , the oxygen will contribute to the chemical , electrical , and mechanical potentials which * determine the degree of condensation ; the purpose of this paper , however , is limited to the proof by exact physical experiment that there is no special connection between the presence of oxygen and the process of dyeing .
Experiments with Silk .
The first substance tried was silk , and the procedure was as follows : A tube was arranged which had a three-way tube joined to it , down one of which nitrogen gas could be passed , down the next rongalit white solution , and down the third nitrogen water , so that they could be changed one to another by closing or opening taps .
The rongalit white was freed from oxygen by passing a stream of nitrogen through it for abotit six hours , the nitrogen itself having been passed through potash bulbs and bottles containing alkaline pyrogallate , to ensure that it did not contain oxygen .
The water was boiled for 10 minutes and was cooled , while a stream of nitrogen passed through it .
The silk was fixed in the tube and some nitrogen water was passed over it ; the water was then turned off and nitrogen gas was passed over it ; after an hour or so the gas was turned off and water again allowed to flow over , this again being replaced by nitrogen gas .
Such a procedure was carried on for 5\#151 ; 7 hours .
The rongalit white was then allowed to flow into the tube , and , after it had covered the silk for 1-2 minutes , the excess of rongalit was removed by a stream of nitrogen water flowing for 5 minutes .
The tube was then opened to the air .
In no case was any blueing observed until the tube was exposed to the air .
The experiment divides itself into three stages :\#151 ; 1 .
The exposure of the silk to the rongalit white solution ( under nitrogen ) .
2 .
The washing off of the excess of the rongalit still under nitrogen .
No signs of blueing were observed in these two stages .
3 .
The exposure of the silk to the air , when the methylene white is oxidised to methylene blue .
The staining , as it is usually understood , namely , the condensation of the Mr. A. N. Drury .
Validity of the solute on to a surface , takes place in Stage 1 , so that it is obvious that this stage can occur in the absence of free oxygen\#151 ; that is , of oxygen other than what may be still clinging to the silk surface .
The final effect , namely , the development of colour , is no part of the staining process , and is not an indication that the surface of the silk has any special affinity for oxygen , or is a place where oxidation is taking place. .
Such experiments as this , however , and similar ones , with gelatine , agar , and the gel of silicic acid , leave the fundamental proposition , which seems to he the basis of Unna 's work , untouched , namely , that the condensation of a basic substance with a high avidity for oxygen , such as the reduction product , the leucobase of methylene blue , or of the fully oxidised coloured body methylene blue , occurs either where oxidation is taking place or where there is a condensation of oxygen .
To disprove this contention it is necessary to show that condensation may occur on to the surface of a body already fully oxidised , and completely freed from the film of condensed oxygen , which adheres so tenaciously to solid surfaces which have been exposed to air .
As is well known , a solution of a basic dye filtered through a layer of sand is decolorised , the dye being condensed on to the sand particles ; sand , therefore , was chosen .
Experiments with Sand .
The procedure was as follows :\#151 ; About 2 inches of sand were packed in a small combustion tube , having a pad of asbestos at one end to prevent the sand from washing through , when the various solutions were passed through .
Hydrogen , prepared in a Kipp apparatus , was washed in water to remove acid , passed through a strong solution of alkaline pyrogallate to remove oxygen or traces of acid still remaining , and finally passed through a long tower of calcium chloride to remove water .
The apparatus used was similar to that used for silk , save that the three-way tube was fixed on to a combustion tube which contained the sand .
The sand was heated to redness in a furnace , and the purified hydrogen passed over it while it was in this condition .
The heating was followed by cooling , and this by heating again , still , of course , in a stream of hydrogen , and this was followed by cooling once more in a stream of hydrogen .
These series of operations were carried on for three to four hours , so as completely to burn off the oxygen.* After the sand had cooled in the atmosphere of hydrogen , rongalit white solution , freed from oxygen by passing nitrogen gas through it for six hours , was allowed to flow in .
It was allowed to stay * Compare " Contact Electricity , " F. M. Spiers , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 5th ser. , vol. 49 , Part 1 ( 1900 ) .
Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place in Tissues .
169 \ in the tube for one or two minutes , after which it was washed through by a stream of nitrogen water .
The sand was then treated in one of two ways\#151 ; it was either kept in the tube , the two ends of which were open to the air , or it was washed through by the nitrogen water on to filter paper .
The object of the second procedure was to eliminate the possibility that it might be only the solution of rongalit white trapped between the sand grains that underwent oxidation , the methylene blue so produced being taken up by the sand .
If any such trapped solution exists , it is rapidly taken up by the filter paper .
The results which the first method gave are interesting .
It was noticed that no blueing occurs for a considerable time , although the tube has been full of air .
That is to say , the hydrogen which has replaced the oxygen on the surface of the sand continues in possession of that surface for some time after it is brought into the presence of oxygen .
A similar condition is met with in the case of iron ; if the oxygen which is normally condensed on the surface of the iron is completely replaced by a layer of hydrogen , the potential difference between the iron and another metal plate is changed .
When the iron is brought into the presence of air the reversion to the original potential difference is very slow , thus showing that the hydrogen is only slowly displaced from the surface of the iron.* Details of an Experiment .
3.10 .
Sand heated to redness and hydrogen passed through .
3.40 .
Allowed to cool in a stream of hydrogen .
3.50 .
Again heated to redness in hydrogen stream .
5.0 .
Allowed to cool in stream of hydrogen .
5.15 .
Rongalit white solution passed through and allowed to remain incontact with the sand for one minute .
There was no appearance of any colour at all.f Nitrogen water was then passed through for three minutes ; again there was no sign of colour in the sand .
The nitrogen water was then driven through by a stream of nitrogen gas .
5.25 .
Tube opened to the air and shaken to disturb the gas inside the tube .
5.40 .
No colour .
6.0 .
No colour .
6.30 .
Slight blue colour beginning to develop .
From this time onwards the colour gradually developed and deepened , till at 12.0 it had become dark blue .
* Log. cit. , p. 2 .
t Ordinary sand when placed in rongalit solution turns a green-blue colour .
170 Mr. A. N. Drury .
Validity of the The method of spreading the sand on to dry filter paper gave similar results .
1.30 .
Sand heated to redness , stream of hydrogen passed over .
2.0 .
Sand allowed to cool in hydrogen .
2.10 .
Sand again heated in hydrogen .
2.40 .
Sand allowed to cool in hydrogen .
2.50 .
Sand again heated in hydrogen .
3.20 .
Sand allowed to cool in hydrogen .
3.30 .
Eongalit white solution allowed to flow in and to remain in tube for one minute .
This is followed by a stream of nitrogen water .
There was no sign of colour during these two stages .
3.45 .
Sand washed out on to filter paper ; no colour .
4.0 .
Slight blue-green tinge through the sand .
5.15 .
Sand had become much deeper blue , the intensity of which continued to increase for some hours .
This experiment agrees with the former in every particular , except in the time taken for the first appearance of the blue colour .
This is a difference rather to be expected than otherwise , as in the washing out on to the filter paper the surface would be very much disturbed , and consequently the condensed hydrogen would be more rapidly displaced .
That the oxygen-free surface clings tenaciously to the rongalit white condensed on to it appears from an experiment carried out in the same way as the preceding .
The sand was freed from oxygen , and then the oxygen-free rongalit-white solution was passed over for one minute .
After this the nitrogen water was allowed to flow through until the water as it emerged contained only very minute traces of methylene white .
The sand inside the tube was then exposed to air on filter paper , and it developed a quite appreciable blue colour .
There is thus no doubt that sand freed entirely from oxygen not only condenses methylene white on to its surface , but also holds it with a certain degree of pertinacity .
Experiments on the Effects of the Gases condensed on the Surface on the Condensation of Methylene Blue .
1 .
Oxygen.\#151 ; A small combustion tube was filled with two inches of sand , having at one end a plug of asbestos to prevent the sand from being moved by the solution as it passed through .
Through this tube a solution of methylene blue was allowed to flow by gravity .
The effluent was at first colourless , but with lapse of time as the Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place in Tissues .
171 sand became saturated to the dye the colour increased to an intensity indistinguishable from that of the solution sent in .
2 .
Hydrogen.\#151 ; The sand was alternately heated and cooled in an atmosphere of hydrogen gas completely to remove the oxygen .
When it had cooled down in the hydrogen gas a solution of methylene blue of the same strength as was used above , but which had been made up in carefully boiled water , and had had nitrogen gas passed through it for six hours , was allowed to flow through by gravity as before .
Samples of equal volumes were collected at the other end , and these showed an exactly similar graduation from colourless to the colour of the solution sent in .
If there was any quantitative difference in the amount of condensation of methylene blue in the two cases , it could not be shown by such an experiment .
This point will be dealt with later .
It will be noticed here that sand whose surface is freed from oxygen and occupied by a film of condensed hydrogen will condense methylene blue from a solution so as completely to decolorise it .
In the face of these results it is difficult to lay more importance on the results obtained by Unna than that he is merely picking out the basophile portions of the tissue with the rongalit white , the staining being modified , , as might be expected , by the presence of the alkaline reducing substance , rongalit .
The methylene white and the rongalit would both saturate the tissue with which they are brought in contact , but the rongalit is more easily dislodged than the methylene white , so that the basophile parts of the cell to which the latter clings would show a blue coloration owing to the oxidation of the methylene white to methylene blue .
Quantitative Experiments on the Effect of Oxygen upon the Amount of Methylene Blue condensed on to Sand .
The preceding experiments show that the presence of oxygen at a surface is not necessary for the condensation of either the highly oxidisable leucobase , or of methylene blue .
We now proceed to the further question , how far does the film of condensed oxygen favour condensation or the reverse ?
It will be seen that it actually lessens condensation of methylene blue .
The following experiment was made .
A solution of methylene blue was made and divided into two parts , one of which was freed from oxygen by passing nitrogen through it .
Two combustion tubes were filled with similar lengths of sand , and were heated in a furnace .
Over one was passed a stream of hydrogen to replace the oxygen , and over the other a stream of air was passed .
The tubes were VOL. lxxxviii.\#151 ; b. o Mr. A. N. Drury .
Validity of the heated for three hours and one hour respectively and were allowed to cool in their respective gases .
The sand was then turned into the methylene blue , the hydrogen sand into the nitrogen methylene blue , the air sand into the air methylene blue .
After they had remained in the methylene blue for equal periods of time , the solution was decanted off , and the sand carefully dried , the intensity of blueing of the sand showing a very appreciable difference even to the eye .
The solutions of methylene blue were compared by means of the colorimeter with the original solution .
The sand was heated strongly to vaporise the methylene blue on its surface , and was then weighed .
Account of an Experiment.\#151 ; Sand was heated in a hydrogen atmosphere for three hours , and cooled in an atmosphere of that gas ; it was then put into nitrogen methylene blue solution for five minutes .
The sand was decanted off and was compared with the original methylene blue solution by means of the colorimeter .
The sand was dried , heated to volatilise the methylene blue , and weighed .
A similar quantity of sand was likewise heated in a stream of air for three hours , cooled and put into ordinary methylene blue solution of the same strength for five minutes , decanted off and compared with the original solution by means of the colorimeter .
The sand was dried , heated , and weighed .
The same volume of solution was used in both cases:\#151 ; Wt .
Sol .
Orig .
sol .
A.\#151 ; Sand heated in hydrogen 1-75 0-8 0-5 B.\#151 ; , " air ... 103 0-75 0-5 The result can be represented as columns of methylene blue solutions on the same base and containing the same amount of dye .
Original solution ... ... ... ... ... .
5 Solution A ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7'5 Solution B ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
12'5 This experiment shows that the gas condensed on the surface plays an important part in the depth of staining which the surface undergoes .
An explanation is , perhaps , to be found in the alteration of the electrical potential of the surface .
The Effect of Certain Chemical Substances on the Amount of Methylene Blue Condensation on Sand .
In the following experiments the sand was shaken up with the substance to be tested , and washed in water .
The methylene blue solution was then Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place Tissues .
173 added and shaken for one minute , allowed to settle for one minute , after which it was decanted off ; the solution was then compared with a sample of the original solution by means of the colorimeter .
The same volume of the methylene blue solution was used in every case ; the sand was finally dried , heated to volatilise the methylene blue condensed on the surface , and weighed .
The following results were obtained .
The ordinates represent the heights of columns of methylene blue solutions Sand on the same base and containing the same amount of methylene blue , and consequently the relative desaturation of the original solution .
A. The height of the column of the original methylene blue solution with which the various solutions were compared .
B. Ordinary sand .
C. Sand previously treated with gum .
D. 93 33 chloroform .
E. 33 33 formalin .
F. 33 33 rongalit .
G. 33 33 mercuric chloride .
H. 33 33 soap .
I. 3 } 33 octyl alcohol .
J. 3 ) 93 caprylic acid .
K. 93 93 ^ ?
-cymol .
These results show , as might be expected from theory , that the previous treatment of the sand has a large influence on the amount of methylene blue condensed on the surface .
Mr. A. N. Drury .
Validity of the Summary .
Experiments were made which prove that the results obtained by Unna with rongalit white do not justify his assumption that it is a specific stain for the oxygen place in tissues ; consequently his theory of staining by oxidation and reduction is not proven .
Further experiments were performed to find the effect of the gases condensed on to a surface upon the depth of staining .
Altering a surface by preliminary treatment with various chemical substances also has a marked effect upon the subsequent condensation of methylene blue .
I should like to express my thanks to Mr. Hardy for help and criticism .
The expenses of this research were defrayed by a grant from the Thruston Memorial Fund , Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
[ Note by W. B. Hardy.\#151 ; The fundamental uncertainty in all microchemical tests , and perhaps especially in those for oxidation places , may be put as follows:\#151 ; It is easy , as the writer found many years ago , to get discriminating colour reactions in sections and unfixed cells with oxidisable bodies such as Wurster 's tetra-substance , which is a singularly delicate test for what is called active oxygen\#151 ; that is to say , for oxygen whose chemical potential is raised above that of atmospheric oxygen by , ionisation or the formation of peroxide .
When oxidised it becomes a vivid purple and the purple reaction is given very definitely by , e.g. , the basophile granules of leucocytes when the cells are exposed to a trace of the substance .
But the tetra-substance is itself unfortunately a basic substance and would therefore be condensed from solution by the basophile granule in the ordinary process of staining .
There appear to be three possibilities , and experiment seems unable to choose between them :\#151 ; 1 .
That the basophile granule is in fact a region where active oxygen is produced , e.g. , in the course of some local oxidation process .
2 .
That the tetra-substance is oxidised indiscriminately about the section during manipulation , in the course of which it is probably exposed to the combined influence of evaporation and light ; * and that it is subsequently condensed on to the basophile granules by a simple staining process .
3 .
That in the process of condensation of an oxidisable body by surface energy its chemical potential is raised , so that oxidation , which would not otherwise occur in the presence of atmospheric oxygen , actually does occur .
It must be noted that the condensation is due solely to surface forces , * D'Arcy and Hardy , 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 17 , p. 390 ( 1894 ) .
Microchemical Test for the Oxygen Place in Tissues .
175 and has nothing to do with the particular surface being one specially prone to oxidation or reduction .
In this connection I am not forgetting that , when once completely condensed , the chemical potential of the oxidisable substance is no higher than ( it is in fact identical with ) what it is in the solution ; but many instances show that during transition the molecules are under stresses which may find relief in exceptional chemical activity .
For instance , the exceptional electrical and chemical properties of gases entering or leaving the surface of platinum ; the high chemical potential of condensing oxygen in Prof. Bone 's experiments on surface combustion , while by contrast a fully condensed film of oxygen on metallic iron does not oxidise the iron .
Roberts ' experiments on the volatilisation of metals , perhaps , are also a case in point .
During condensation local heat changes occur , the sign being determined by whether the solution of the substance condensed is endothermic or exothermic .
Let heat be liberated when condensation occurs , the relation of solvent and solute being such that heat is absorbed during solution .
The local liberation of heat will oppose condensation and the velocity of condensation becomes a function of the rate of dissipation of heat .
In the well known case of an over-cooled fluid phase the dissipation of heat may be so slow as completely to arrest the change of phase.* If the substance which is being condensed under these conditions is chemically unstable , chemical change of the nature of oxidation , reduction , dissociation or association may be caused locally by the enormous molecular stresses .
This third possibility considers a surface not as specially a place of oxidation because , for instance , oxidation of Wiirster 's tetra-substance occurs there , but as a surface which condenses basic substances .
In this process oxidation of a basic body may occur , but an equally oxidisable acid substance would escape change .
Mr. Drury 's experiments clear the ground for further discussion to this extent\#151 ; they prove conclusively that the condensation of a so-called test substance for " active " oxygen or a simple basic dye not only will take place on to a surface wholly devoid of oxygen , but is actually hindered by the existence thereon of a film of oxygen It must always be remembered that an oxidation place is also a reduction place , and it is to be called the one or the other according to the particular zero which is chosen .
A convenient ' zero is the chemical potential of atmospheric oxygen , and a place would be an oxidation place if oxygen , whose chemical potential is = that of atmospheric oxygen , is condensed to the intramolecular state .
Such a region would then be a reduction place for chemical * H. A. Wilson , * Camb .
Phil. Proc. , ' vol. 10 , p. 25 ( 1898 ) .
Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Mr. H. W. Gosney .
compounds in which the oxygen potential is = that of atmospheric oxygen , and an oxidation place for substances in which it is less than that of atmospheric oxygen .
In the absence of some agreement as to the zero point the discussion is likely to be as confused in the future as it has been in the past .
] BIBLIOGRAPHY .
Unna , P. G. " Die Reduktionsorte und Sauerstofforte des tierischen Gewebes .
Festschr .
Waldeyer , " ' Arch , fiir Mikroskop .
Anat .
, ' vol. 78 , p. 1 ( 1911 ) .
Unna , P. G. ' Biochemie der Haut , ' Jena , 1913 .
Spiers , F. M. " Contact Electricity , " * Phil. Mag. , ' 5th ser. , vol. 49 , Part 1 ( 1900 ) .
McDonagh , J. E. R. , and Wallis , R. L. M. " The Chemistry of the syphilidis and of the Host 's Protecting Cells , " * Biochemical Journal , ' vol. 7 ( 1913 ) .
Kite , G. L. " Studies on the Physical Properties of Protoplasm.\#151 ; I , " 'Amer .
Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 32 ( 1913 ) .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
XXII.\#151 ; Lipase ( IV)\#151 ; The Correlation of Synthetic and Hydrolytic Activity .
By Henry E. Armstrong , F.R.S. , and H. W. Gosney , B.Sc. ( Received and read April 30 , 1914 .
) In the previous communication on this subject , in which the behaviour of Lipase towards ethereal salts generally was discussed , it has been argued that the enzyme is specially fitted to determine the hydrolysis of the insoluble , oily , glyceric salts of the higher fatty acids but is not suited to act in aqueous solutions : we expressed the opinion that interaction must be supposed to take place at and between surfaces separated only by a thin film of water at most\#151 ; in other words , that water in excess is inimical to the occurrence of change .
The results we advanced , in conjunction with those deduced from the study of other enzymes , notably urease , also led us to conclude that it is impossible to apply the laws of mass action directly to the interpretation of the changes effected by Lipase .
Previously we have directed our attention only to the hydrolytic activity of the enzyme : numerous observations are on record which prove that , whether of animal or vegetable origin , it can act reversibly but no comparative study of the two processes has been made hitherto in the case of fats.* * ( 1 ) Kastle and Lowenhardt , 'Amer .
Chem. Journ. , ' vol. 24 , p. 491 .
( 2 ) Hanriot , 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' vol. 132 , p. 212 ( 1901 ) .
( 3 ) Pottevin , ibid. , vol. 136 , p. 1152 ( 1903 ) ; ( 4 ) ' Bull .
Soc. Chim .
, ' Ill , vol. 35 , p. 693 ( 1906 ) .
( 5 ) Dietz , ' Zeit .
Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 52 ,

