On Sounds Inaudible by certain Ears .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. P.R.S. Read June 29 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 306 .
] In this communication the author describes a peculiar insensibility to certain sounds in the ears of persons not otherwise deaf , which he was led to observe by trying different modes of lessening the sense of hearing in himself ; when he found , that by closing the nose and mouth , and expanding the chest , the membrana tympani , thrown into a state of tension by external pressure , made the ear insensible to grave tones , without affecting the perception of sharper sounds .
In this case the ear was insensible to all sounds below F marked by the bass cliff .
In the natural healthy state of the ear , there seems to be no limit to the power of discerning low sounds ; but if we attend to the opposite extremity of the scale of audible sounds , and with a series of pipes , exceeding each other in sharpness , examine their effects successively upon the ears of different persons , we shall find considerable difference in their powers of hearing them , and see reason to infer that human hearing is more confined than has been supposed .
Dr. Wollaston 's attention was called to this circumstance by finding a person insensible to the sound of a small organ pipe , which , with respect to acuteness , was far within the limits of his own hearing .
By subsequent examination , this person 's hearing was found to terminate at a note four octaves above the middle E of the pianoforte .
Other cases of the insensibility of the ear of certain persons to high sounds are next adverted to ; such as to the chirping of the grasshopper , the cricket , the sparrow , and the bat ; the latter being about five octaves above the middle E of the piano .
The limit of the author 's own sense of hearing is at about six octaves above the middle E ; and , from numerous trials , he is induced to think that , at the limit of hearing , the interval of a single note between two sounds may be sufficient to render the higher note inaudible , although the lower one is heard distinctly .
The range of human hearing includes more than nine octaves , the whole of which are distinct to most ears , though the vibrations of a note at the higher extreme are 600 or 700 times more frequent than ' those which constitute the gravest audible sound ; and as vibrations incomparably more frequent may exist , we may imagine , says the author , that animals like the Grylli , whose powers appear to commence nearly where ours terminate , may hear still sharper sounds , which we do not know to exist ; and that there may be insects hearing nothing in common with us , but endued with a power of exciting , , and a sense that perceives the same vibrations which constitute our ordinary sounds , but so remote that the animal who perceives them may be said to possess another sense , agreeing with our own , solelyin the medium by which it is excited , and possibly wholly unaffected .
by those slower vibrations of which we are sensible .

