156 On the Process of Hair turning .
" On the Process of Hair Turning White , " By E. Metchnikoff , 21^1901m ES* Eeceived November 7 , \#151 ; Read November Although the fact of hair turning white is a most familiar one , its mechanism has not as yet been unveiled .
The authors of works on subjecT"1 dermat'l0gy acknowledge their ignorance concerning this Having undertaken a study on atrophic processes , and especially on senile atrophy , my attention has been called to the atrophy of hair pigment so frequent in old people .
J Observations on grey hair , or on hair beginning to turn grey , showed me that the atrophy of its pigment is due to the intervention of phagocytes of the hair .
These cells have a single nucleus and their very different aspect one from another is due to numerous ammboid prolongations of their protoplasm They are derived from the medullary part of the hair ] and make them way out into its cortical layer , where they absorb the pigment granules , which they then remove from the hair .
If we consider hair , one part of which is already white and the : OWmr still pigmented , we find a great many of these phagocytes .
They are supplied with greatly developed prolongations and become insinuated between the keratic cells of the peripheral layer .
In absolutely whitp hair the phagocytes filled with pigment become 1 more and more ^scarce , and most frequently completely disappear .
It is thus indubitable that the phagocytes of the hairs swallow up 1 the granular pigment of the cortical layer and transfer it elsewhere I the result being the complete whitening of such hair .
On observing ] the root of hair beginning to whiten , we often find a great many 1 phagocytes filled with pigment .
j The whitening of the hair of old dogs proceeds by the same 1 mechanism .
We equally find here a great number of phagocytes 1 supplied with numerous prolongations and stuffed with pigment granules .
1 The part played by phagocytes in the whitening of hair explains many phenomena observed long ago , but not as yet sufficiently ] understood .
Thus , hair turning white in a single night , or in a few \#166 ; days , may be explained by the increased activity of hair phagocytes thus enabled to transfer the pigment in so short a time .
The mechanism of the whitening of hair through the agency of phagocytes , allows this case of atrophy to be classed under the general laws of atrophy of solid parts of the organism .

