On a Meteoric Iron from Winburg , Orange Free State .
19 ( JK4._It has , further , been noticed that the position of the transition point in the substitution products of methane relative to their melting point is influenced in a regular manner by t\lt ; he nature of the substituent .
The transition points situated at low temperature have , however , so far been determined only quite approximately , and a more detailed discussion of this question must , therefore , be postponed until more accurate temperature determinations have been made .
Before concluding this paper , I have to acknowledge the liberality with which the technical resources of the Davy-Faraday Laboratory , in which the investigation was carried out during the year 1912 and the earlier part of 1913 , have been placed at my disposal .
I wish also to thank Sir James Dewar for the interest he has shown in this work , whereby he has greatly furthered its progress .
On a Meteoric Iron from Winburg , Orange Free State .
By W. A. Douglas Budge , M.A. ( Communicated by Prof. B. Hopkinson , F.B.S. Received October 10 , 1913 , \#151 ; Bead February 26 , 1914 .
) ( Plates 1 and 2 .
) Some account of this meteorite has been given in the ' Transactions of the Boyal Society of South Africa/ 1912 , vol. 2 .
The present communication deals more fully with the internal structure of the meteorite , giving also some account of the mechanical and magnetic properties .
The meteorite was seen to fall in 1881 by some natives working on the Zeekoe-gat farm , belonging to Dr. Schneehage .
They reported the matter to their employer , who ordered them to carry the meteorite to the farmyard , where it remained some years , finally being sent to the Bloemfontein Museum .
The meteorite measured 38 by 23 cm .
along the two greatest axes and weighed nearly 50 kgrm .
It was slightly magnetic , having a number of poles .
It will be convenient to divide this paper into sections , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Dealing with the chemical composition .
( 2 ) " " internal structure .
( 3 ) " " mechanical properties .
( 4 ) " " magnetic properties .
Mr. W. A. D. Rudge .
On a Meteori'e 1 .
Chemical Composition .
The meteorite is not very uniform in composition , owing to the veins of alloy which run through the mass , and a qualitative examination showed that it consisted mainly of iron and nickel , with some pulverulent carbon , which separated when the material was treated with dilute sulphuric acid .
Traces of phosphorus and silicon were also present .
On solution of the metal in dilute acid the gas evolved was almost odourless , so that it seems unlikely that the carbon was combined .
The nickel does not appear to be uniformly distributed throughout the mass of the meteorite , as it is possible to separate from the mass flakes of an alloy of iron and nickel , in which the proportion of nickel is far greater than that for the whole meteorite .
The iron is probably present in two forms : ( 1 ) as large ferrite crystals , and ( 2 ) in the iron-nickel alloy .
That present in ( 1 ) dissolves readily in dilute sulphuric acid , whilst ( 2 ) requires strong hydrochloric acid to make it go into solution along with the nickel .
If a small lump of the metal is very slowly dissolved by sulphuric acid of about normal strength , flakes of the alloy , sometimes more than 1 cm .
in length and mostly triangular in shape , remain behind .
These flakes are strongly magnetic and retain their susceptibility up to a red heat .
The quantitative analysis was directed to obtain information on the following points :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The iron soluble in dilute sulphuric acid .
( 2 ) Total iron .
( 3 ) Total nickel .
( 4 ) Nickel contained in the flakes of alloy insoluble in dilute sulphuric acid .
( 1 ) This was ascertained by treating a weighed portion of the metal with dilute sulphuric acid , in a flask closed by a Bunsen valve , until all action had ceased , and then titrating the solution with decinormal bichromate in the usual manner .
The mean of twelve determinations gave 90*67 per cent , for the iron soluble in dilute acid .
( 2 ) A weighed portion of the metal was heated for some time with strong hydrochloric acid to which a very small crystal of potassium chlorate was added , and the flask closed with a Bunsen valve , and after reduction with magnesium the solution was titrated with decinormal bichromate .
The mean of six determinations gave 92*54 per cent , for the total iron .
( 3 ) The nickel was at first determined by Moore 's method as described in Crookes s Select Methods/ p. 225 , but consistent results were not obtained , and the method attributed to Jamieson , and described in Sutton 's 'Volumetric Iron from Winburg , Orange Free State .
- 21 Analysis ' at p. 269 , was used instead .
Control experiments with solutions containing known amounts of nickel and iron gave confidence in the method .
The mean of six determinations gave 6*905 per cent , for the nickel .
The composition of the metal appears to be:\#151 ; Iron soluble in dilute sulphuric acid ... .
90*67 Iron insoluble in dilute sulphuric acid . .
1*87 Nickel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6*905 Carbon and undetermined ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*555 100*000 ( 4 ) The metal as a whole is not very homogeneous , as the veins of alloy and the flakes also vary considerably in thickness .
About 20 to 30 grm. of the turnings from the meteorite were digested in normal sulphuric acid for three days .
A residue , which consisted of about 2*5 per cent , of a mixture of finely granular carbon and shreds of alloy , remained behind .
The alloy was separated from the carbon by means of a magnet , and after solution in nitric acid the nickel was estimated by the method already referred to .
The mean of two analyses gave 29*57 .
The carbon has not been actually determined , but by mechanical means aided by a magnet the amount of carbon separated from the residue insoluble in dilute sulphuric acid was not more than corresponding to 0*15 per cent , of the meteorite .
A portion of the residue was very insoluble and resisted prolonged treatment with aqua regia .
It consisted of some glistening fine grains which were decidedly magnetic ; the actual quantity was , however , small and escapes observation unless a large amount of the meteorite is used .
I believe that the nickel is contained in the alloy , which is disseminated throughout the mass in three distinct forms:\#151 ; ( ?
) As large veins running through the mass .
( ?
) As plates separating the large crystals of ferrite .
( c ) As small crystallites , embedded in the ferrite itself , and as small grains .
The small crystallites cannot be isolated , and on solution of the ferrite remain behind as fine silvery threads .
The pitting seen when a slab of the meteorite is exposed for a long time to the action of dilute acids points to a local galvanic action taking place around embedded grains of alloy .
It is possible that the different portions , a , b , cy may have different chemical compositions .
Mr. W. A. D. Budge .
On a Meteoric 2 .
Internal Structure .
The meteorite was cut across .
The metal is quite soft and may easily be cut by a knife , and is very malleable , with harder patches occurring here and there .
After cutting , both surfaces were polished in the usual way , one being left bright and the other etched .
In the former the larger veins of alloy running through the mass may readily be seen , and the latter , after etching with dilute nitric acid , showed the ordinary " Widmannstatten figures so characteristic of meteoric iron , but , on submitting the section to a magnification of about 12*5 diameters , the large crystals of ferrite aie seen to be separated from each other by well defined boundaries composed of some other material , which in some cases penetrates into the ferrite masses .
These effects are best seen under slightly oblique illumination and cannot be done justice to by photography .
Fig. 1 ( Plate 1 ) , is a magnified portion of the surface .
Patches of the alloy can be seen , and a number of small apparent projections are clearly indicated .
These seem to be small isolated portions of an alloy which stand out owing to their high reflecting power , and which one would imagine had a different composition from that separating the large ferrite masses .
There is a considerable difference in the solubility of the ferrite , as compared with that of the alloy , as is shown by fig. 2 .
This was obtained by covering over a small block of the metal with wax , with the exception of one face , the block being supported in dilute sulphuric acid so that the face could be attacked .
The ferrite was eaten away by the acid , but the alloy was not attacked and the bright lines indicate the flakes of alloy separating the large crystals of ferrite .
The rough pitting on the attacked surface is , I think , caused by the presence of small specks of the alloy such as are seen in fig. 1 .
The most satisfactory method of examination of the finer structure is by heat-tinting , rather than by etching , as then the beautiful structures of the crystals of the alloy are clearly seen , but all efforts to obtain satisfactory photographs have failed , even with the use of isochromatic plates .
Figs. 3 and 4 are photographs of a small section after etching with dilute nitric acid .
The remarkable shapes of the crystallites are here clearly shown , and also the remarkable parallel orientation they show with reference to each other .
These fine crystallites are very delicate and fragile , and on dissolving a piece of the metal in dilute sulphuric acid they break up into fine silvery threads .
In the heat-tinted specimen the lines are a deep gold upon a blue ground .
In fig. 4 attention is called to the fine parallel lines shown on the large etched ferrite grains and , by appropriate illuminations , another set of lines is seen crossing these at right angles .
Heating had an important influence in Rudge .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A , vol. 90 , Plate 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Rudge .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A , vol. 90 , Plate 2 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Iron from Winburg , Orange Free State .
23 modifying the structure of the iron .
Fig. 5 is a photograph of the same specimen under a magnification of six after heating to about 800 ' C. for half an hour , and then allowing to cool slowly .
After cooling , it was polished and treated with the same etching agent , when it appears that the structure has been more or less broken down .
Lines of the alloy can still be readily traced , but the well defined outline of the ferrite crystals has disappeared .
The temperatures were determined by the Fery pyrometer .
The meteorite may be considered as being formed of a mass of ferrite crystals , with plates of alloy separating the crystals , and with eutectoid crystallites disseminated throughout the ferrite , and with veins of alloy running in definite directions .
The crystallites themselves are composed of a number of thin laminae , arranged according to some definite plan .
3 .
Mechanical Tests .
The coarse-grained structure of the metal made it appear to be of interest to submit it to some mechanical tests , and , with this object , a piece of metal , measuring about 5 inches in length and nearly f inch square , was cut out of a portion which seemed to be free from the large veins .
This had threads cut for a distance of J inch on each end , and the remaining portions were machined up to J inch square , the surfaces being polished and etched .
It was then seen that several veins ran across nearly to the centre^ of the specimen , and , in order to get the sample as homogeneous as possible , a portion was planed away , so that the final section was triangular when the veins had been cut away .
The specimen was mounted in the large testing machine in such a way as to allow of examination by a microscope , or to permit of the application of the extensometer .
A load was applied gradually , and the form of the crystal grains watched and photographed under a magnification of about 100 diameters , in order to detect any change occurring in the etched pattern on the surface , but , within the limits of the strength of the material , no definite change could be seen .
Photographs were taken under dead loads of 0*5 , 1 , and 1*8 ton , without any difference being observed in the form of the boundaries .
The break took place very sharply under a load of 10*25 tons per square inch .
The fracture ( fig. 6 ) shows clearly the large-grained crystalline structure of the material .
At first sight it would appear as though the comparatively large plane surfaces shown on breaking , the edges of which are clearly shown in the photograph , were cleavage planes developed in the crystal .
The broken surfaces were , however , not bright , as would be the case with an ordinary sample of steel or iron , but were pitted to some extent on one Mr. W. A. D. Budge .
On a Meteoric surface , whilst small specks of bright nickel-iron alloy occupied corresponding positions on the other surface , that is , there was clearly a lack of continuity at the surfaces .
Some of the thin alloy plates separating the crystals could also be seen .
It was not easy to obtain an end-on view of the fracture , but the side view shows clearly that the fracture took place along the junction of crystal planes .
The break does not in any way resemble a flaw , but is just what one sees in the breaking up of any highly crystalline material , such as sugar candy .
From the extension , before the break , the value of Young 's modulus may be found .
Taking the extension between 0*5 and 1*5 tons on either the loading or unloading curves as lying within the elastic limit of the material , we get a value for Young 's modulus of 3 x 107 lbs. per square inch .
Compression Test\#151 ; A piece of the metal in the form of a parallelepiped was prepared , having a size of 1*8 x 0*7 x 0*87 cm .
, and carefully polished until all the coarse scratches had been removed .
This was then placed between two steel cylinders and compression gradually applied , the specimen being watched through a microscope .
Very little change was noted until the dead load reached a value of 4000 lb. , when the mass seemed to be cleaving into a number of separate large-sized crystals , and , on increasing the load to 6000 lb. , this became very marked .
" Slip bands " now made their appearance , but were not very well defined until a load of 7000 lb. had been applied , when they were clearly visible , but difficult to photograph , because the originally plane surface was now very much corrugated .
The shape of the end section was much changed , appearing as though a twisting stress had been applied .
4 .
Magnetic Tests .
The magnetic properties of the metal were tested by Ewing 's permea-meter for fields of moderate strength .
A rod of the metal 4*2 inches by 0*25 inch was turned up on the lathe .
The portion selected was one free from large veins , but it showed on etching the usual large-grained structure .
This was placed in one of the coils of the permeameter , a standard bar being placed in the other .
The B and H curves from the two bars are shown in Curve 1 , where it is seen that for weak fields the permeability is greater than that of the standard Swedish iron but with strong fields it becomes slightly less .
For strong magnetic fields , the apparatus as used by Prof. Hopkinson , and described in ' Proc. Inst. Elec .
Engineers , ' vol. 46 , was employed .
In the arrangement , two small pieces of metal as nearly identical as possible were taken , one being the standard , and the other the specimen under Iron from Winburg , Orange Free State .
meteoric IRON aooo-^j MAGNETISING FORCE examination .
The induction through these was compared for the same value of the magnetising force .
As a mean of many measurements made on six specimens the susceptibility of the meteoric iron as compared with that of the Swedish standard was as By annealing carefully the susceptibility was increased .
My thanks are due to Prof. Hopkinson for kindly permitting me to make use of the Engineering Laboratory in Cambridge , and also for the kindly interest he took in the work\#151 ; and also to his assistant , Mr. H. Quinney , for the very great assistance he gave me in carrying out the various tests , and finally to the Committee of the Bloemfontein Museum for placing the meteorite at my disposal .
Summary .
( 1 ) The meteorite is composed of a mass of ferrite crystals , with veins of iron-nickel alloy running through , and with flakes and crystals of iron-nickel alloy disseminated throughout the mass .
( 2 ) The mechanical strength of the metal is not so great as that of ordinary iron , but before rupture occurs the modulus of elasticity is nearly as great as that of ordinary iron .
( 3 ) The individual crystals are soft and malleable .
( 4 ) On applying a crushing force , the iron tends to cleave into definite .crystals .
( 5 ) The magnetic properties are practically the same as those of Swedish iron .

