An Account of an Experiment made Decemb. the 26th , 1704 .
To try the Quality of Air , produced from Gunpowder , fired in Vacuo Boyliano .
By Mr Fr. Hauksbee .
UPon making the late Experiment of firing Gunpowder in Vacuo , it was hinted as well worthy of trial , Whether the Factitious Air of fired Gunpowder was endued with any Quality differing from Common Air .
In order to the satisfaction of the Query , On December the 26th about noon I includ eda Candent Iron in Vacuo , the Mercury then in the Gage standing at 29 inches 1/ 2 : Upon dropping the first quantity of Powder , ( by a quantity is to be understood something more than a Grain weight ) its Explosion made a Descent of the Mercury in the Gage about an Inch , undulating very little .
The second quantity being let fall , the Mercury subsided about 3/ 4 of an Inch ; and so for several quantities following it descended by pretty equal Stages , till it had fallen about 6 or 7 Inches ; and it was observed , upon every quantity fired , the Undulations of the Mercury increased .
But after it had subsided 6 or 7 Inches from 29 1/ 2 , the several descents of it became less , very little or nothing exceeding 1/ 2 an Inch , altho the Quantities fired were equal ; but still the Undulations increased , and the Explosions manifestly did so too : Till at last the Receiver seemed to be in great danger of being blown up by a single Quantity , the Undulations of the Mercury being then augmented to 6 or 7 Inches .
Now 26 Quantities or 32 Grains having been fired upon the Iron , and the Mercury in the Gage fallen to 12 3/ 4 , I diligently attended to observe the Gage , which in 7 minutes had ascended 2 Inches 3/ 4 , the next 5 minutes it arose but once Inch 1/ 4 , and so less successively every 5 minutes , that in an hour and 17 minutes it had attained but to 21 Inches , the Iron not being quite cold .
At 9 the same night I observed the Gage , and found the Mercury elevated to 22 Inches 1/ 4 , precisely : next morn at 9 it had attained to 22 1/ 2 , and so continued all that day , the Iron then being , reduced to the temperature of the outward Air .
So that from 12 3/ 4 to 22 1/ 2 seems to be the weight or spring of heat equal to about 1/ 3 of an Atmosphere of Air , which would press the Mercury upon the upper part of the Gage , but equal to such a degree of heat as was then contained in the Receiver , when the Gage was fallen to 12 3/ 4 : The remaining space from 22 1/ 2 to 29 1/ 2 is supposed to be supplied with factitious Air , and answers to about 1/ 4 part of the Recipients whole Content , tent , which was equal to 25 ounces 1/ 2 of Common Water , allowing for the Iron and Pedestal .
This Air , produced from Gunpowder , I find to be actuated by heat and cold as Common Air : For , holding my warm Hands upon the Receiver , the Mercury in the Gage would immediately descend , and rise again when reduced to the temperature of the outward Air .
This I repeated several times , with the like success .
What more occurs in this Experiment is , Why the Explosions of the like quantities of Gunpowder should be greater when Resisted by Air , than in Vacuo , where nothing seems to hinder the Extention of their flame .

