On the Effects of Galvanism in restoring the due Action of the Lungs .
By A. P. Wilson Philip , Physician in Worcester .
Communicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 21,1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 22 .
] The author ascribes our having derived but little advantage hitherto from the employment of galvanism in the cure of disease , to want of discrimination with regard to the functions of the nervous system , which he considers as twofold , one properly nervous , the other purely sensorial .
Galvanism , he says , never did perform any of the functions of the sensorial system ; it cannot restore hearing to the deaf , or sight to the blind ; and yet these are the cases that have been blindly selected for its employment .
On the muscles it acts purely as a stimulus , and is not to be expected to do more than other stimuli .
But since it appears to have peculiar power over the nervous system , he was led to inquire what diseases depend on a failure of nervous influence ; and from having observed the difficulty of breathing brought on by dividing the eighth pair of nerves , and the relief afforded in that case by sending a stream of galvanism through the lungs , he was induced to try the effects of galvanism in habitual asthma , or asthmatic dyspnoea , which he conceived to depend on some obstruction of nervous energy .
In such instances as have come under his own observation , the employment of galvanism has been almost uniformly attended with relief to the symptoms , and in many instances has proved a perfect cure .
When it is applied as strong as the patient can well bear without complaint , the relief is often perceived in five minutes , and generally in less than a quarter of an hour .
The battery employed consisted of 4-inch plates , charged with a mixture of muriatic acid and water , in the proportion of one acid to twenty of water .
With regard to the number of plates , there are few persons who cannot bear so many as eight pair , and few who require more than twice that number .
Dr. Philip generally begins with a very weak power , and gradually increases it till the patient begins to feel some degree of uneasiness , when it is easy to move the wire of communication backward a few divisions , and again return after a temporary remission of the excitement .
The application was made through the medium of two thin plates of metal dipped in water and applied wet , one to the nape of the neck , and the other to the pit of the stomach , in order that the galvanic fluid might pass through the chest as nearly as possible in the direction of the nerves ; and with respect to the position of the two ends of the battery , it was found expedient to place the positive wire to the nape of the neck , and the negative wire to the pit of the stomach .
The operation was discontinued as soon as the patient felt his breathing become free ; for it was not found that continuance for a greater length of time had any tendency to prevent a recurrence of the symptoms .
In those cases of spasmodic asthma in which galvanism has been applied by the author , it has failed to give relief ; but where the spasmodic paroxysm has been succeeded by habitual difficulty of breathing , there galvanism did give immediate , but temporary relief .
It appears , however , that most is to be expected from this remedy in those cases of habitual asthma which are the least complicated with any other disease .
In order to be assured that the effects above described , as apparently arising from galvanism , might not , in fact , be owing to an impression on the mind during its employment , Dr. Philip endeavoured in various instances to deceive his patients , by imitating the pricking sensation occasioned by the application of the wires to the surface of the skin without really completing the circuit ; but they invariably received no relief from such experiments , and very soon felt the cuse tomary benefit after the communication with the trough had been established in the usual way .
In one instance the galvanic current was directed solely along the spine , by placing the second wire to the small of the back instead of the pit of the stomach ; but the advantage derived from this application was far less than in the usual mode .
In confirmation of the truth of these observations , the author refers to various professional friends who have witnessed the trials , and especially the House Surgeon of the Worcester Infirmary , who is convinced that no other means are equally efficacious in the relief of this species of asthma .

