29 11878 .
] Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion .
\#166 ; results of which , we hope to submit to the Society in a subsequent I communication .
I do not , of course , lay any claim to have discovered an antidote ( in 1 the true sense of the word ) to cobra poison , but I think that the experi-| ments above described prove the inertness of the platinum compound I of cobra virus , and that this may be deemed a sufficient ground for I making more extensive researches on this subject .
Nor do I at present I venture to make any practical suggestions in connexion with the above | facts as to the treatment of cases of snake bite , for until we are i acquainted with the physiological action of platinum compounds this , would be premature .
The responsibility of recommending any change B in the recognized methods of treatment would be very great , and it , would be worse than rashness to deal with a subject of such vital i importance without having a thorough knowledge of the effects likely \#187 ; to be produced by our actions .
Before concluding my paper I must tender my thanks to Mr. R. H. | Wilson , O.S. , officiating magistrate of the 24 Pergunnas , for kindly | assisting me in procuring live cobras for the extraction of the poison , and to my assistant , Balm Poolin Bohary Saor , for much aid rendered I during the progress of a work not always pleasant to the feelings , and j always more or less dangerous in its nature .
II .
" On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
Part V. " By William Crookes , F.R.S. , Y.P.C.S. Received December 3 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This paper commences with an experimental investigation of the ; amount of repulsion produced by radiation on disks of various kinds , I and coated with different substances .
The torsion apparatus for this [ purpose consists of a straw beam , suspended by a fine glass torsion f fibre .
At one end of the beam is a rod hanging downwards , and I capable of taking six experimental disks in a vertical row .
The other I end of the beam is furnished with a pan and adjustible weights , to balance the varying weights of the disks submitted to radiation .
A I standard candle , at a fixed distance from the disks , supplies the radia-I tion , and the amount of movement under its influence is measured by a I ray of light reflected from a mirror on the beam to a graduated scale .
I An appropriate arrangement of screens enables any selected disk to be I experimented on without the others being affected , and a standard I lampblacked disk being always present , the results are capable of intercomparison .
The beam , torsion fibre , disks \amp ; c. , are sealed up in glass , and the whole apparatus is attached to a mercury pump , capable I of carrying the exhaustion to any desired point .
30 Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion [ Jan. 17 , The experimental powders are mostly chemical precipitates , laid on the surface of mica or pith disks as a water paint , no cement being used to promote adhesion .
In other cases the substances are punched , cut , or filed into the shape of disks , 17'25 millims. in diameter .
The exhaustion , which has to be effected after each change of the experimental disks , is carefully brought to the same degree both by actual measurement on a McLeod gauge , and by getting the same repulsion 'on the standard black disk .
In this way all the different results are fairly comparable one with the other .
The presence of aqueous vapour must be specially guarded against by means of tubes containing phosphoric anhydride .
The effect of residual gas in tending to equalise the amount of repulsion on variously coloured surfaces is shown in an experiment with pith disks , one being lampblacked and the other retaining its natural white surface , the standard candle being at the same distance in each case .
When the exhaustion is good enough to cause a fair repulsion , the ratio between the amplitude of swing ( measured by the index ray ) when the black is exposed and that when the white is exposed is as 100 : 55'5 ; at a little higher exhaustion the ratio is\#151 ; Black : White : : 100 : 42'5 ; at a still better exhaustion ( at which the experiments are usually tried ) the ratio is\#151 ; Black : White : : 100 : 35 .
The results of the quantitative examination of the repulsion resulting from radiation when falling on about 100 different substances are given in fourteen tables .
Each table is in three columns , the first consisting of the names of the substances experimented on ; the second the amount of repulsion observed , reduced to the standard of 100 for lampblack ; the third column gives the repulsion observed when a water screen is interposed , reduced to the same standard .
Table I gives the results of the examination of black powders .
Compared with lampblack = 100 , these have an average value of 92'2 , which becomes 99 T by the interposition of water .
Table II contains white powders .
These have an average value of 33'5 , which is reduced to 8'3 behind water .
The powerful absorption for the invisible heat rays which white powders exercise is somewhat remarkable .
Assuming that the ultra-red rays from a candle are almost entirely cut off by a water screen , the comparatively strong action ( 33'5 ) produced by the naked flame must be mainly due to the absorption of the invisible heat rays ; and when these are cut off by water the action is diminished nearly fifty times .
With black powders the water only diminishes the action about eleven times .
Table III gives the red powders .
Amongst these precipitated selenium is noteworthy .
To the naked flame its value is 35'8 , but 1878.1 resulting from Radiation .
when a water screen is interposed the action becomes 69'5 , in comparison with standard lampblack = 100 .
Omitting selenium , the mean action on red powders without a water screen is 32-2 , and with a water screen , 24'9 .
Table IV gives the brown powders .
Amongst these , peroxide of thallium is remarkable as being repelled under the influence of radiation to a greater extent than any other body hitherto examined , its value being 121 '7 , in comparison to lampblack = 100 .
Brown powders behave most like black , the averages of the columns without and with a water screen being 92'7 and 94*5 .
Table V gives the yellow powders .
Among these anhydrous tungstic acid resembles scarlet selenium in its anomalous action , the figures being without water 50'8 and with water 72'2 .
The averages of the other yellow powders are 35*7 and ( behind water ) 13'8 .
Table VI gives green powders .
These show some discrepancies , which will be referred to farther on .
Table VII gives the blue powders .
The action on these is of interest , as- showing a much stronger proportionate action behind a water screen than with no screen , the averages being 55*8 and 65'2 .
Table VIII gives the action on dyes and colouring matters of organic origin .
Among these may be noticed saffranin , and a product of the decomposition of chlorophyll , which act differently to the others .
Table IX gives the action on metals prepared in different ways and coated with lampblack , mica , \amp ; c. Curious results are shown with iron and with gold , the former metal chiefly absorbing the invisible heat rays , whilst the latter metal is principally acted on by the luminous rays .
Tables X and X\lt ; z give the results of an examination of various silver salts in their sensitive and non-sensitive state to light .
The chloride , bromide , and iodide of silver , in their different states , are exposed to the standard candle after being submitted to the action of magnesium light , sunlight , and daylight .
The results show how readily a change in the state of the surface is detected by an increased amount of repulsion under the influence of radiation .
Table XI gives the results of an examination of selenium disks .
These are of two kinds , the vitreous and the crystalline .
The latter is in the state most sensitive to light action .
With the crystalline disk results have been obtained which seem to show that the impact of light on its surface produces a superficial disturbance there and in the adjacent gaseous molecules , which takes some time to subside .
This is connected with the change in electric conducting power of crystalline selenium-\#151 ; a change which , when the element is transferred from light to darkness , takes some time to subside .
Table XII gives the results of the action of radiation on various substances which do not come under any of the foregoing headings , 32 Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion [ Jan. 17 , such as pith , mica , charcoal , glass .
The complicated nature of these actions is well shown in the results given by three pith disks , the first being plain white , the second lampblacked on the front , and the third lampblacked on the back .
The first is repelled with a power of 17-7 , the second ( the standard ) with a power of 100 , whilst the third is not moved at all .
The repulsion exerted on the white surface must be the same in each case , but the pressure of lampblack behind the pith causes a radiation of heat from the back surface , which produces molecular pressure just sufficient to neutralise the pressure in front .
Experiments are shown in this table with mica , both plain and roasted , and covered on one side or the other with lampblack .
The results cannot well be described in abstract .
To show that p'hysical condition has more effect in causing repulsion than chemical composition , results are given with various kinds of charcoal .
It is shown that the repulsion suffered by cocoa-nut shell charcoal is much less than that by white pith , being only 11-6 against 17'7 .
At the same time , a radiometer made of cocoa-nut shell charcoal , lampblacked on one side , is only moderately sensitive , instead of being superior to one made of pith lampblacked on one side .
The low figure shown by the charcoal is caused by its density enabling it to conduct heat from one surface to the other .
Molecular pressure is , therefore , generated on both the back and front surfaces , and the figure given is simply the difference between the two opposing actions .
Experiments show that this explanation is correct .
Besides water , other screens are used to filter the radiation of the candle before it falls on the disks .
Water is , however , preferred for several reasons .
It is almost perfectly opaque to the invisible heat rays , and , therefore , its employment allows easy discrimination between actions due to heat and to heat and light combined ; secondly , it is colourless , and having no selective action on any visible ray of light , it can be used in conjunction with any coloured powder without complicating the results .
Alum acts in a similar manner to water ; coloured solutions act as water with a superadded action due to their colour .
Very thick plates of glass have less action on the invisible heat rays than a thin layer of water .
Sulphate of copper in so weak a solution as to appear only slightly green , has a very strong action when artificial light is used , as it cuts off the lowest visible red rays as well as the ultra red .
After having given the tabulated results of the examination and discussed the different actions , the author finds that the substances experimented on may be divided into two classes .
1 .
In which the repulsion behind water is greater in proportion to the standard than when no screen is present ; and 2 , in which the repulsion in proportion to the standard is less behind water than when no screen is present .
Amongst class 1 may be mentioned copper 1878 .
] resulting from Radiation .
tungstate , saffranin , scarlet selenium , and copper oxalate ; these are more affected by light than by invisible heat .
Amongst class 2 may be mentioned pale green chromic oxide , persulphocyanogen , hydrated zinc oxide , barium sulphate , and calcium carbonate ; these substances are more acted on by the ultra red rays than by the luminous rays .
From the results given in these tables , the author has been led to the construction of several radiometers which afford ocular proof of the general correctness of the indications given by the water screen .
Thus , a radiometer made of pith disks coated on alternate sides with chromic oxide and precipitated selenium , moves in one direction to the naked flame of a candle and in the other direction when a water screen is interposed .
A similar radiometer coated with saffranin and hydrated zinc oxide does not move at all when exposed to the naked flame , but revolves'when a water screen is interposed .
A radiometer coated with thallic oxide and Magnus 's green platinum salt moves strongly when no screen is interposed , but is stopped by a water screen .
Many other instruments having similar behaviour to the above are described , and their actions discussed and explained .
The following experiment is given ; a pith radiometer , coated with precipitated selenium and chromic oxide , is exposed to the radiation from a colourless gas flame from a Bunsen burner , coloured intensely green by thallium .
To the eye , by this light , the chromic oxide looks nearly white and the scarlet selenium black .
The rotation due to the superior repulsion of the chromic oxide is , however , apparently as strong as when the non-luminous flame is used .
This is a proof that the train of reasoning the author has employed on former occasions is correct , viz. , that certain substances have an absorptive action on rays of dark heat opposite to what they have on light , and that an optically white body may be thermically black , and vice versa .
Here , for instance , chromic oxide is optically green and thermically black , whilst scarlet selenium is thermically white .
The author next examines the amount of repulsion produced when polarised light is allowed to fall on a plate of tourmaline suspended iii vacuo in a torsion balance .
It was considered possible that the repulsion might vary according to the plane of polarisation of the incident ray .
Three separate sets of experiments are given in detail , and the results discussed ; the final decision being that the special action originally thought possible does not exist in a degree appreciable with the present experimental means .
The next portion of the paper is devoted to an examination of the action of radiation on radiometers , the vanes of which consist of metallic plates , either bright on both sides or blacked on one side , and turned up at the corners in different degrees .
When flat plates are taken , blacked on alternate sides , the rotation is normal or positive , VOL. XXVII .
D 34 Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion f Jan. 17 , i.e. the black side is repelled .
If one of the outer comers of each plate is turned up at an angle of 45 ' , so as to keep the blacked surface on the concave side , the positive rotation is either diminished , stopped , or converted into negative rotation , according to the amount of surface of the plate which has been turned up .
When the plates are kept flat , but the supporting arms are bent so as to present more of one side than of the other to the bulb , as shown in fig. 1 , the fly rotates under the influence of radiation in the direction Fig. 1 .
of the arrows , even when there is no difference between one surface and the other .
It is shown that the favourable presentation of the surface of the vanes to the inside of the bulb has more influence on the movement than has the colour of the surface .
Experiments are described with radiometers of the form shojvn in fig. 1 , and made of thick and thin mica , pith , aluminium bright on both sides , and aluminium blacked on one side .
The action of light and of dark heat is given .
The negative rotation set up in the fly when it is cooling from a high temperature , and the anomalous behaviour of the " favourably presented " radiometers when immersed in hot air or hot water , are examined .
It is found that when a hot metal ring is applied to the equator of the bulb , the direction of rotation is always positive ; and that when a hot ring of a smaller diameter is applied to the top or bottom of the bulb the direction of rotation is always negative .
The direction of movement when the hot rings are removed and the fly is cooling is positive with the aluminium vanes , and negative with the thin mica and pith vanes .
The positive rotation , when the bulb is heated equatorially , is independent of the material of which the fly is made .
It is caused by the hot ring of glass generating molecular pressure , which radiates towards the centre , and strikes the sloping vanes , driving them round as if a wind were blowing on them .
The other movements of these " favourably presented " radiometers are explained in the paper , but it is difficult to reproduce the explanations in abstract without the aid of the diagrams which accompany the paper .
Having investigated the simplest form of favourably presented 1378 .
] resulting from Radiation .
35 vanes , the author describes experiments with metal and other cones , cylinders , and cups .
An abstract of some of these results was given in the Proceedings of the Royal Society for November 16 , 1876 , No. 175 , page 313 , but it was stated that the " molecular pressure " theory seemed incapable of accounting for some of the movements there observed .
Further experiments have now cleared up this difficulty , and all the various movements are now seen to agree*with this theory .
The movement which appeared most anomalous was the attraction observed when a candle was allowed to shine on the hollow side of a cone or cup-vaned radiometer , the light being screened off the retreating side .
When light falls on the hollow side of a cone-shaped vane , some is reflected and lost , but some is absorbed and is converted into heat of temperature .
Aluminium being a good conductor of heat , and the thickness of metal being insignificant , it becomes equally warm throughout , and a layer of molecular pressure is formed on each surface of the metal .
At a low exhaustion the thickness of this layer of pressure is not sufficient to reach from the metal cone to the side of the glass bulb .
As the exhaustion increases , this layer extends further from the generating surface , until at a sufficiently high exhaustion the space between the side of the glass bulb and the adjacent portion of the metallic cone is bridged over , and pressure is exerted between the two surfaces .
The more favourable presentation offered by the cone causes the pressure to be greatest between the glass bulb and the outside of the cone ; the vanes are , therefore , pressed round by a force which is really acting from behind , although the movement looks as if the candle were attracting them .
A radiometer , the fly of which is furnished with four bright aluminium cups , rotates in the light as well as a flat vaned instrument blacked on one side .
Experiments are described with one of these instruments attached to the mercury pump , and the observations of pressure and revolutions per minute under the influence of a standard candle are tabulated and drawn as a curve , taking the rarefaction of the air in millionths of an atmosphere as abscissae and the number of revolutions a minute as ordinates .
The curve , which is traced through the dots representing observations , shows a gradual increase in the sensitiveness of the instrument to light , up to about 50 millionths of an atmosphere ; then the action keeps Avith little variation to about 30 millionths , thence it rapidly sinks , until at about 1 millionth it is less than -Jg-th of the maximum , and at 0'2 millionth the radiometer refuses to turn even when five candles are put near it .
The concluding portion of the paper is devoted to an examination of the movements produced in highly rarefied gases , when thin mica vanes suspended horizontally , and sloping like the vanes of a windmill , are exposed to the action of a ring of platinum , placed just below them , and rendered incandescent by a current of electricity .
The D 2 36 Mr. W. Crookes on Repulsion [ Jan. 17 , object has been to produce the molecular pressure by a very intense heat which would not have to pass through glass , and to allow it to act on vanes which are turned in the most favourable position for rotating under the influence of the molecular pressure .
The direction is called positive when it is the same as would be produced by a wind blowing from the platinum wire , and negative when it takes the contrary direction .
In the apparatus most experimented with a rotating disk of mica is supported on a separate pivot , immediately over the mica vanes .
The normal or positive movement of this disk is in the opposite direction to that of the vanes ; thus , if the positive movement of the vanes is in the direction of the hands of a watch , the positive movement of the disk is in the opposite direction .
Fig. 2 .
With the apparatus full of air at the normal pressure the direction of rotation , both of the vanes and disk , is positive when the platinum wire is ignited .
This is probably due to the ascending current of hot air .
At a pressure of 80 millims. the disk does not rotate .
The vanes rotate positively , but slowly .
At 19 millims. no movement whatever takes place .
The disk and vanes are as still when the wire is heated as when it is cold .
At 14 millims. the disk remains stationary .
The vanes move slowly in the negative direction .
At 1 millim. the disk rotates in the positive direction slowly , whilst the vanes rotate negatively rather fast ; both disk and vanes now rotate in the same direction .
1878.1 resulting from Radiation .
At a pressure of 706 millionths of an atmosphere the direction keeps the same as at 1 millim. in each case , but the speed is greater .
At 294 millionths , the speed of the disk and vanes is exactly alike , both rotating together in the same direction .
Up to this pressure and at some distance beyond , the vanes have been gradually diminishing whilst the disk has been increasing in speed .
At a pressure of 141 millionths the disk rotates rapidly , , but the vanes do not rotate at all .
At a little higher exhaustion than the last , viz. , at 129 millionths , a great change is observed .
The vanes , which were still , now rotate in the positive direction at a speed of 100 revolutions a minute , whilst the disk rotates positively as before , but with a little diminished velocity .
It is probable that some of the speed of the disk has been quenched by the rapid movement of the vanes in the opposite direction , as the author has previously shown* that the viscosity of air at a rarefaction of 129 millionths of an atmosphere is only a little less than its viscosity at the normal density , and hence the vanes , at a speed of 100 revolutions a minute , must exert a considerable drag on the opposite rotation of the disk .
As the rarefaction increases above this point , the speed of both the disk and vanes increases , till they exceed 600 revolutions a minute .
At the highest rarefaction attained ( 0'4 millionth of an atmosphere ) , there is no apparent diminution in speed .
These experiments have been repeated in a more elaborate series with an apparatus of great complexity .
It is impossible without drawings to give an idea of the various arrangements by which data are secured , but it may be mentioned that at each pressure observations can be taken on the velocity of rotation of the disk and vanes , the viscosity of the residual gas , the repulsion exerted by a standard candle on a black mica plate , and the appearance of an inductive spark through a tube furnished with platinum wires .
Different gases can be experimented with , and a series of observations are given with hydrogen gas as well as with air .
The author concludes his paper by showing that the ordinary ideas of a " vacuum " are very erroneous .
Formerly an air-pump which would diminish the volume of air in the receiver 1,000 times was said to produce a vacuum .
Later a " perfect vacuum " was said to be produced by chemical absorption and by the Sprengel pump , the test being that electricity would not pass ; this point being reached when the air is rarefied 100,000 times .
According to Mr. Johnstone Stony , the number of molecules in a cubic centimetre of air at the ordinary pressure is probably something like 1,000,000000,000000,000000 ( one thousand trillions ) .
Now when this number is divided by 0'4 million , there are still left 250,000000,000000 molecules in every cubic centi* " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " November 16 , 1876 , No. 175 , p. 30o .
38 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination [ Jan , 24 , metre of gas at the highest exhaustion to which these experiments have been carried .
Two hundred and fifty billions of molecules in a cubic centimetre appear a sufficiently large number to justify the sup-position that when set into vibration by a white-hot wire they may be capable of exerting an enormous mechanical effect .
January 24 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , in the Chair .
The presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following papers were read I. " New Determination of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
" By J. P. Joule , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) An account is given by the author , of the experiments he has recently made , with a view to increase the accuracy of the results given in his former paper , published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1850 .
The result he has now arrived at , from the thermal effects of the friction of water , is , that taking the unit of heat as that which can raise a pound of water , weighed in vacuo , from 60 ' to 61 ' of the mercurial thermometer ; its mechanical equivalent , reduced to the sea-level at the latitude of Greenwich , is 772'55 foot-pounds .
II .
" The Cortical Lamination of the Motor Area of the Brain .
" By Bevan Lewis , F.R.M.S. , Pathologist and Assist .
Med. Officer to the West Riding Asylum , and Henry Clarke , L.R.C.P. Lond. , Med. Officer to the West Riding Prison .
Communicated by D. Ferrier , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , King 's College , London .
Received November 7 , 1877 .
[ Plates 1-3 .
] Whilst pursuing certain investigations upon the comparative histology of the brain , the authors of this article have been enabled to demonstrate certain facts with regard to cortical lamination , and to show the disposition and significance of certain elementary constituents , the importance of which , they believe , justifies their publication .

