On the Origin and Office of the Alburnum of Trees .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read June 30 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 313 .
] Mr. Knight having , by his former experiments on this subject , established to his satisfaction that the bark of trees is not converted into alburnum , but that the alburilous matter is deposited by a fluid which descends from the leaves , and is subsequently secreted through the bark , proceeds to inquire into the origin and office of the alburnous tubes .
In the succulent shoot of the horse-chestnut it may be seen , that the alburnous tubes are arranged in ridges beneath the cortical vessels , and the number of these ridges at the base of each leaf corresponds with the number of apertures which pass from the leaf-stalk .
The position and direction of these tubes have induced naturalists to consider them as passages through which the sap ascends ; but Mr. Knight intends to show that they are reservoirs of fluid secreted by the bark , which they retain till it is absorbed by the surrounding cellular substance .
Having ascertained , by injections , that the alburnous tubes which descend from the base of an annual shoot are confined to one side of the stem , and to the external annual layer of wood , Mr. Knight made deep incisions at the bases of many annual shoots of young trees , in such a manner as certainly to intercept all communication with the stem by means of the alburnous tubes ; but the shoots lived , and in the succeeding spring grew with considerable vigour .
In some small twigs , two incisions were made on opposite sides , one a few lines higher than the other , so that all the alburnous tubes might , in some part of their course , be interrupted ; yet the sap continued to pass into the branches , and their buds unfolded in the succeeding spring .
All naturalists agree in stating that trees perspire most during summer , when the leaves have attained their full growth ; but as the alburnous tubes at that time appear dry and filled with air , it is evident that the tubes do not convey the sap , but are intended to execute a different office .
But if the sap does not rise through the alburnous tubes , says Mr. Knight , it must pass the cellular substance ; and to show that the cellular substance is pervious to fluids , he quotes an instance from a preceding communication , in which bark was generated on the surface of the cellular substance of pollard oaks .
A new experiment is also related in confirmation of this opinion .
Various branches of two years old were cut from different trees ; and after the cut surface had been covered with a cement impermeable to water , a portion of the bark was detached from each , so as to expose the surface of the alburnum .
They were then immersed in coloured infusions for twenty hours , and were found to have imbibed the colour between the alburnous tubes , apparently through the cellular substance .
When an incision is made into the alburnum near the root , and sap is seen to flow from it , it may be observed to run even more abundantly from the upper surface of the incision ; and since the quantity which exudes is full a hundred times more than was previously contained in the alburnous tubes , it appears evident that it is raised through some other channel .
Mr. Knight concludes , therefore , that the sap ascends through the cellular substance , and conceives that part to be so organized as to permit the sap to escape more readily upwards than in any other direction ; and , by its alternate contraction and expansion , to be fully capable of propelling the sap with all the impulse which it is known to have in the spring .
The alburnous tubes appear to the author to answer also another purpose , since their cylindrical form occasions the strength of the materials employed to be the greatest possible .
The author concludes by observing , that though he retracts an opinion formerly entertained respecting the ascent of sap through the alburnous tubes , yet his opinions concerning its subsequent motion through the central vessels , leaves , and bark , remain unchanged .

