1903 .
] Experiments in Hybridisation .
" Experiments in Hybridisation , with Special Eeference to the Effect of Conditions on Dominance .
" By L. Doncaster , B.A. , King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. S. F Harmer , F.E.S. Eeeeived March 19 , \#151 ; Bead May 7 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes experiments made at Naples with hybrid Echinoid larvae .
The object of the experiments was to determine whether the dominance of a character is influenced by the condition of the genital cells at the time of fertilisation .
It had been suggested by Vernon* that the " prepotency " of the sexual cells varies with their maturity , and experiments were made to test this conclusion , and also to discover whether " prepotency " could be influenced by other conditions acting on the eggs or spermatozoa before fertilisation .
It was found that adverse conditions acting on the eggs did give rise to differences in the larvae , but evidence is given to show that these differences are not due to a change in the dominance of characters , but are the result of differences in the vigour of the larvae .
It is also shown that the seasonal changes observed by Vernon are probably due chiefly , if not entirely , to differences of temperature , and are not caused by a change of dominance accompanying difference of maturity .
It is also shown that if an individual , A , shows greater dominance than B when each is crossed with a specimen X of the other sex , then A will also show greater dominance than B when both are crossed with a specimen Y. It is shown that the different characters of one parent are inherited separately by the hybrid offspring , so that there is no pronounced correlation in the offspring between characters derived from the same parent .
Further , a given character may appear in very different degrees on the two sides of the body of a hybrid larva , so that the hybrids are very frequently asymmetrical , although in the characters considered the two sides of the pure-bred larvae are similar .
Experiments are described dealing with the causes which hinder cross-fertilisation between separate species , and it is shown that treatment of the eggs which tends to reduce their vitality usually renders their fertilisation by sperm of another species more easy .
* 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , 1898 .

