The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" Researches on the Decomposition and Disintegration of Phosphatic Vesical Calculi ; and on the introduction of Chemical decomponents into the living Bladder .
" By S. Elliott Hoskins , M.D Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The object of these researches was the discovery of some chemi ?
cal agent , more energetic in its action on certain varieties of human calculi , and less irritating when injected into the bladder , than any of the fluids hitherto employed .
These indications not being fulfilled by dilute acids , or other solvents which act by the exertion of single elective affinity , the author investigated the effects of complex affinity in producing decompo ?
sition , and consequent disintegration , of vesical calculi .
For this purpose an agent is required , the base of which should unite with the acid of the calculus , whilst the acid of the former should combine and form soluble salts with the base of the latter .
The combined acids would thereby be set free in definite proportions , to be neutralized in their nascent state , and removed out of the sphere of action , before any stimulating effect could be exerted on the animal tissue .
These intentions the author considers as having been fulfilled by the employment of weak solutions of some of the vegetable supersalts of lead ; such as the supermalate , saccharate , lactate , &amp;c. The preparation , however , to which he gives the preference , is an acid saccharate , or , as he calls it , a nitro-saccharate of lead .
The salt , whichsoever it may be , must be moistened with a few drops of acetic , or of its own proper acid , previous to solution in water , whereby alone perfect transparency and activity are secured .
He furthermore states , that the decomposing liquid should not ex ?
ceed in strength one grain of the salt to each fluid-ounce of water , as the decomposing effect is in an inverse ratio to its strength .
Having by experiments which are fully detailed ascertained the chemical effects of the above class of decomponents on calculous concretions oid of the body , the author briefly alludes to the cases of three patients , in each of whom from four to eight ounces of these solutions had been repeatedly , for weeks together , introduced into the bladder , and retained in that organ without inconvenience for the space of from ten to fifty minutes .
It not being the intention of the author to enter into the medical history of these cases , he merely cites the above facts as sufficient to establish the principle originally laid down ; namely , chemical decomposition of phosphatic calculi , by means of solutions so mild as to be capable of retention in the living human bladder without irritation or inconvenience .

