126 Messrs. J. E. Barnard and H. de R. Morgan .
[ June 15 .
" Upon the Bactericidal Action of some Ultra-violet Radiations as Produced by the Continuous-Current Arc. " By J. E. Barnard and H. de R. Morgan .
Communicated by Sir Henry Roscoe , F.R.S. Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
( From the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine .
) The experiments here described have been carried out with the object of determining the effect on the vitality of bacteria , as the result of exposure to the arc spectra of carbon and of various metals .
The organisms experimented with have been the Bacillus coli communis , B. prodigiosus , B. subtilis , Micrococcus tetragenus , Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus tuberculosis .
The spectroscope was provided with quartz lenses and prism , and a subsidiary quartz lens of 18-inch focus was used to project the image of the arc on to the slit .
The instrument was adjusted as for photography , except that the slit was somewhat more open than is generally the case for that purpose .
The method of experimenting was to project the spectrum on to an agar film , contained in an ordinary Petri dish , over the surface of which had been spread with a sterilised brush an active culture of one of the organisms mentioned .
The plates were exposed to the light directly after inoculation and were then incubated for 24 hours at 37 ' C. The part of the plate on which no portion of the spectrum was allowed to fall grew normally and served as a control .
It was found that the bactericidal action was entirely confined to the ultra-violet region .
With the spectrum projected as described , the results were as follows :\#151 ; Current .
Width of slit .
Length of exposure .
11 amperes .
05 mm. 15 mins .
Effect slight , but bands discernible .
11 " 0-5 " 20 " Effect well marked .
11 0-5 " 45 " Effect very marked , so that the bands almost merged and formed a sterile area .
With exposures as long as two hours no effect whatever was obtained in any other portion of the spectrum , even when the slit of the spectroscope was opened to an extent which in photographing would have been regarded as inadmissible .
The active radiations lie in that portion of the spectrum between wave-length 3287 and 2265 .
The wave-lengths were determined by reference to the arc spectrum of 1903 .
] Bactericidal Action of some Ultra-violet Radiations .
127 cadmium .
Visually the lines in the ultra-violet region can he observed by projecting the spectrum on to a fluorescent screen of sulphate of quinine .
We , however , obtained photographs of the cadmium spectrum under precisely the same conditions as those under which the bacterial plates were obtained , and were thus able to identify the lines occurring in the photograph , with those on the bacterial plates .
As these lines are known , their wave-length is at once obtained by comparing the photographs with a chart on which the wave-lengths are indicated .
The photographic method , therefore , reduces the chance of mistakes which might arise from personal error in observation , It , therefore , appears that relatively the action of other portions of the spectrum is negligible compared with the activity of this portion , although it is probable that when using white light there is a slight action which extends over the whole spectrum .
Neither the extreme ultra-violet rays nor those nearest to the visible violet appear to be active .
The affected portion of the bacterial plates corresponded with a photograph taken of that portion of the spectrum , and it was possible to identify the nearly sterile lines on the plates with those known to exist in the ultra-violet spectrum of carbon .
In view of this result we were led to experiment with the arc spectra of various metals , such as iron , cadmium , silver and aluminium .
The results with these entirely agreed with those obtained with carbon , except that the action is greater in proportion to the number and intensity of the lines occurring in what we may call the bactericidal region .
It , therefore , appeared that an electrode composed entirely or partly of iron , should be more actively bactericidal than a carbon one , and this we found to be the case .
A convenient form we found to be one in which in the case of the positive electrode , we removed the soft carbon core and substituted for it a mixture consisting of the particular metal desired and sufficient carbon , in the form of sugar , to prevent the core from dropping out .
Using a positive electrode so prepared and an ordinary carbon negative electrode , the effect on Bacillus communis contained in a hanging drop was as follows :\#151 ; Distance of hanging drop from arc , 10 cm .
Current used 11 amperes .
Ordinary carbons ... ... . .
Organisms killed in 30 mins .
Iron " " " 15 " Cadmium " " " 15 " Aluminium " " " 25 " The organisms were proved to be killed by failure to obtain subcultures , but the motility was arrested long before the death of the organism .
The light was allowed to pass through a metal cylinder , closed at Prof. H. Lamb .
On Propagation of [ June 11 , each end with a disc of quartz , and through which water was kept circulating to absorb heat rays .
The slide on which the hanging-drop cover slip was placed was made of quartz to avoid interception of the ultra-violet rays .
The hanging drop thus mounted was then placed on this water-circulating apparatus and the light from the arc was projected through from below upwards , so as to pass through the water and the quartz slide on to the hanging drop .
We have been unable to find that any of the radiations contained in the spectrum are penetrative to organic substances such as agar , or dead animal or vegetable tissue .
Neither can they penetrate living tissues , but we are continuing experiments in this direction to more exactly determine their action .
The conclusion to be drawn , therefore , is that the bactericidal action of light is almost entirely due to the action of those radiations in the ultra-violet region of the .spectrum which are included between the wave-lengths 3287 and 2265 .
It is , therefore , necessary that any source of light used as a bactericidal agent should be rich in these rays .
" On the Propagation of Tremors over the Surface of an Elastic Solid .
" By Horace Lamb , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Bead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The paper treats of the propagation of vibrations over the surface of a " semi-infinite " isotropic elastic solid , i.e. , a solid bounded only by a plane .
For purposes of description , this plane may be conceived as horizontal and the solid as lying below it , although gravity is not specially taken into account .
The vibrations are supposed due to an arbitrary application of force at a point .
In the problem most fully discussed this force consists of an impulse applied normally to the surface ; but some other cases , including that of an internal source of disturbance , are also ( more briefly ) considered .
Owing to the complexity of the problem , attention has been concentrated for the present on the vibrations as they manifest themselves at the free surface ; the modifications which the latter introduces into the character of the waves propagated into the interior have accordingly not been examined minutely .
The investigation may perhaps claim some interest on theoretical grounds , and also in relation to the phenomena of earthquakes .
Writers on seismology have naturally endeavoured , from time to time , to interpret the phenomena , at all events in their broader features , by the light of elastic theory .
Most of these attempts have been based

