V. " Note on the Spectrum of Thallium .
' By Professor WILLIAM ALLEN MILLER , M.D. , LL. D. , Treasurer and V.P.R.S. Received January 15 , 1863 .
My friend Mr. Crookes , the discoverer of the new metal thallium* , having kindly put into my hands a small quantity of the metal , which he believes to be chemically pure , I have been enabled to make some experiments upon its spectrum , the results of which may not be without interest to the members of the Royal Society .
Thallium , as is well known , when examined in the usual way by the spectroscope , yields a spectrum of remarkable simplicity , furnishing a single intense green line , the occurrence of which , as is familiar to chemists , led Mr. Crookes to the discovery of the metal , and suggested to him the name by which it is known .
In order to try the effect of a progressively increasing temperature upon the spectrum furnished by the metal and its compounds , the following experiments were made .
Portions of metallic thallium , as well as of an alloy formed by fusing a bead of thallium upon the end of a platinum wire , and portions of the sulphate of the metal were introduced successively , first , into the flame of burning hydrogen , and then into the oxyhydrogen jet , and were in each case viewed by the spectroscope .
As the temperature increased in intensity , the brilliancy of the thallium green line increased also , but no new lines made their appearance .
Two pieces of stout thallium wire were then arranged as electrodes to the secondary wire of an induction coil .
A continuous torrent of sparks was maintained without melting the wires or producing very rapid oxidation , or volatilization of the metal ; the light , however , was much whiter than its ordinary monochromatic character would have led us to expect .
Mr. Crookes , who was with me during the experiments , projected the image of the points by means of a lens upon a distant white screen , when it was at once obvious that the extremities of the spark were of a fine green colour , whilst the flickering luminous arc , which filled up the interval , due chiefly top ignited air , was much whiter .
On viewing the sparks from the induction-coil by the spectroscope , several new lines , independently of well-marked air-lines , made their appearance .
These lines were distinguished from air-lines by the peculiar character which distinguishes most metallic lines , viz. the much greater intensity of their extremities than of their central portions .
Besides the usual intense line in the green , five others were particularly observable : first , a very faint one in the orange ; next , two of nearly equal intensity in the green , more refrangible than TlM , with a third much fainter , these three lines in the green being nearly equidistant ; whilst , 5th , in the blue was a bright well-defined line all these were strong at each extremity and evanescent in the central portions .
The induction-spark of thallium was then observed when produced in a current of hydrogen gas .
The air-lines disappeared , the peculiar lines of hydrogen were very manifest , particularly the line in the red and one of the lines in the blue ; whilst the new thallium lines were preserved , with the exception of the feeblest , though all were reduced in intensity .
Finally , a photographic impression of the thallium spectrum upon collodion was obtained by the method which I have described in a paper communicated to the Royal Society in June last .
An impression extending to about division 154 of the scale then adopted was obtained .
This spectrum contains several very characteristic groups of lines ; it recalls the features of the spectra of cadmium and zinc , and less strongly that of lead .
Measuring by the scale already adopted in my former paper , it is found that there are two strong groups of lines at about 103 and 106 .
At 116 , 121 , and 126 are three groups the first two less intense than the third , which is of about the same strength as the earliest two .
Several feebler pairs of dots follow , and the spectrum terminates rather abruptly with four nearly equidistant groups , commencing respectively at 136 , 141 , 145 , and 151 .
The first of these groups is very strongly marked , the others are fainter , but of nearly equal intensity .
The remarkable way in which a spectrum at low temperatures so simple becomes increased in complexity , both in the visible and in the extra-visible portions , is of high interest considered in relation to the physical cause of these phenomena ; and it is not without interest in a chemical sense , from its bearing upon the view supported by Dumas , that thallium belongs to the alkaline group .
Potassium and sodium exhibit no new lines in the induction-spark , merely a diffuse light filling up the air-lines , and lithium but a single strong group at about 124 .
This physical character , added to the more purely chemical ones of the insolubility of the sulphide , the chromate , the iodide , the sparing solubility of the chloride , the phosphate , the oxalate , the ferrocyanide , the occurrence of a powerfully basic oxide , and of a higher feebly acid oxide , may therefore assist in showing the resemblance of thallium to silver or to lead , which latter metal in density , colour , softness , and external appearance it so closely simulates .
It would be easy to point out other particulars in which the properties of thallium are in strong contrast with those of the alkali metals .
The chemical energy of these metals , lithium , sodium , potassium , rubidium , and caesium , increases in the order mentioned , which is that of their equivalents .
Thallium , with a higher equivalent than any of these , shows a greatly diminished chemical activity .
The metal is readily reduced by zinc from its solutions .
Its oxide , instead of being like that of all the alkalies , excessively deliquescent , is permanent in air , and forms a closely adhering coat like that which is produced upon the surface of zinc or lead , protecting the metal beneath from further change .
In many points the chemical reactions of thallium resemble those of silver , to which metal it is also further approximated by the circumstance that the atomic heat of the metal , like that of silver , is double that of the series to which lead belongs .
Although therefore in other physical properties thallium differs greatly from silver , it seems to be more closely allied to that metal than to any other

