]\gt ; December 22 , 1887 .
Admiral Sir GEORGE RICHARDS , K.C.B. , VicePresident , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' On the Effects of Electric Currents .
No. Ir By ILLIAM f PREECE , F.R.S. Received November On March 19th , 1884 , I submitted to the Royal Society a paper on the heating effects of electric currents , * showing the strength of current necessary to fuse the fine platinum wire employed for protecting submarine cables from the ill effects of } , pheric electricity .
paper proved that the law that regulates the production of heat is one which can be expressed by the formula , " " \ldquo ; being a constsnt dependent on the metal used , and " " \ldquo ; the diameter of the wire .
The current observed was that which heated the wire up to point of self-luminosity Since " " cut-outs\ldquo ; of the same character as the cable lightning pro- .
have become an essential feature of all electric lighting iustallations , to act as safety fuses when from accident or design an oxcess of current is allowed to pass through the conductor , it became most desirable to determine the current that would fuse wires of different diameters , and of different materials , so to determine the coefficient for all metals .
The best material to use and the propel ' imensions of the fusible wire to be employed for the protection of the electric conductors wonld thus be easily deduced .
My source of electricity was a large secondary battery .
of 52 cells .
I reguIate the current flowing at will by a rheostat of thick iron wire , and by varying the 1lumber of cells .
The current strength was calculated by measuring the potential difference at the ellds of a thick flat platinoid bar , whose resisbance was , inserted in the circuit , and so large that it would not perceptibly warm up nor have its istance appreciably increased fYith any current used .
The sizcs vire experimented upon were limited by the current .
It is not safe * .
Soc. Proc 1884 , lh87 .
] On the jfects of El 281 to draw upon secondary cells for more than 10 amperes per negativo plate of the dimensions at present followed .
The pncked plates dis , and become dama .
with too great an output of current .
my expcriments lvere made with currents vell w the of the .
I obtained } ) of wire of metals of various from inch up to incl ] .
It is to these mcasurements in of an inch , for all 0111 Llld c. in the ttnd the gdom lvolk to this .
The of values thus obtained into tho metrical more cientifio ) is very ) wire to ) experimonted upon bet small brass bind iscre fixed ) stand .
I pointed out in my previous paper how ) effccts of tho or the , and nccesit to erimell t wires of sufficicnt to error this cause .
I used ] ) of 6 inches to the constants for wires free from the cnolin , but of to mine consbatlts wircs used in } ) ractice as " " cut-outs.\ldquo ; The .
effect of the ternlillals very seri o affects tho of the used in actual practice , and the the ire the ternlinals the more serious is the errol .
On other hand , the greatel the lengths of used as fuse the reate r the inserted , and the cffi c of tho hb itself may be redoced .
Cut-outs , therefole , shonld and with judgment , and wire should uot be so as to impair the fusing point .
In the following tables I have tabulated the results of the numero expel.iments made .
Whell consider the irregularities in these fine to cylinders , the difficulty in determining the curl.ent at the exact momc1lt of , and the variation the specific of thu metals , I the results must be considered lpport of law .
vation w taken : \mdash ; 1 .
The mclting ' point of a small of shcllac placed on the may be taken at C. The point of seIf-luminosity , C. This was only term i air without dark chamber I employed proviously .
; J. The fusing curreut .
I. " " Cut-outs.\ldquo ; Copper .
Aluminium .
Note.\mdash ; The wire becomes red , and then immediately much brighter ( a dull white ) , owing probably to oxidation .
To reproduce faint redness with o the circuit , ) current can be considerably reduced .
" " " " is the current which he first visible of light , and so quickly changed the wire to a state of incandescence , while " " " " is the reduced current which reproduced the first redness .
If the experiment be repeated , the same effects arc obtained , although the molecular structure of the wire seems to be much changed by the first heating .
After fusing the wire , a white powder , alumina , is found , and somelimes a white opaque bead .
A wire 18 mils diameter and 10 was raised to faint red with amperes ; it glowed ( dull white ) on one side of loop with amperes , and hcat had apparently spread 01 er the hole length uniformly , , and the current was found to be amperes .
The wire was llCXt raised to a moderately white in.andsscent state with 15.98 , and 1 ' ith this broke in two minutes .
T. I I I. .
W. H. Preece .
[ Dec. 22 , Platinum .
Wire fused .
Note.\mdash ; The ratio of perceptible warmth : red heat : fusing point is lghly ) : 2 : 3 in platinum .
German Silver .
essedin inchesCon .
1887 .
] On the Heating Effects of Electric Currents .
Platinoid .
Iron .
Mr. W. H. Preece .
[ Dec. 22 , I was anxious to see if the shellac flake had any influence on the fusing current:\mdash ; Shows the effect with shellac .
Without shellac .
Tin .
gauge .
Diamete .
Hence it appears that shellac acts as a flux and prevents oxidation .
Thus tin fuses at a temperature less than that of luminosity .
Tin-Lead Alloy .
*With shellac .
Fused after W. H. Preece .
[ Dec. 22 , Lead .
* Lead wire fuses without previously emitting light when a small shellac flake touches the wire .
Series II .
The second series of experiments was made to determine the relative eifect of the sudden application of powerful currents on wires of different materials such as would occur if in practice a short circuit suddenly took place .
An electromotive force of 100 volts was used , and there being no appreciable resistance in the external circuit but the wire , the latter was subjected to the blow of a momentary current of immense and immeasurable strength .
1887 .
] of \mdash ; Metal .
Gauge .
-silver tinum foil . . . .
wren.stripsa i Remarks .
with a sharp report , and scnt tered molten particles quite 6 feet in directions .
Fuse produced little more than large splay of This wire enclosed in porcelain box covered glass plate .
It with able 1 .
The glass wils broken into , and the box chipped .
Some cles about .
Onc inch of llils put into au earthenware box .
When fused , the particles of metal were securely imlheredprisoned .
to globules .
Molten particles were } a distance of ( 9 feet .
Molten particles thrown about 4 feet .
strip of foil in .
long .
}lrks thrown a few inches Molten scattered feet .
andescing particles thrown upwar and around , but not 1llore feet distant .
Profuse particles , and thrown 6 distant in a hite llot Not so much splayin , in last experiment .
No incandescent pa.rticles reached the ground .
The wire destroyed with a sharp report .
Better silver foil , no particles being scaftered .
A few rticles ere shot about 4 feet ; one was of Large ndescent globules sc ftttered arouud .
a ) of 4 or 5 feet .
went off a flash , and three to a short a splay of metal ncanldc cent for some moments , and burnt a hole in the table .
Scintillating flew in fill directions to great distance .
the most dangerous break of all the erinlents .
Considerable produced , and particles widely scattered .
: W. H. Preece .
[ Dec. 22 , The conclusions derived from these experiments were that the best metal to use for small diameters was platinum , and for large wires tin .
Platinum fuses in a wax-like kind of way without explosion or scattering of molten particles .
Platinum has great advantages over other erials ; it neither tarnishes nor deteriorates .
It is easiIy soldered .
Tin behaves very much in the same way when its dimensions are large .
But it is very questionable whether large wires should over be used for fusible cut-outs .
Owing to radiation the surface keeps cool and solid , while the centre is molten and liquid .
It bursts with an .
explosion , and the incandescent particles are forced away radially all directions with considerable energy .
Fusible cut-outs are effective but somewhat barbarous , and from the absence of any scientific enquiry into their character and jtldg- ment in their use , they have in the majority of instances become rather a source of danger than of safety .
Series III .
The third series of experiments was made to determine the constant " " \ldquo ; when each wire was 6 inches long and therefore free from any cooling effect of the terminals .
Copper .
Aluminium .
Platinum .
Mr. W. H. Preece .
German Silver .
Platinoid .
Actual Diameter in current in inches .
5.285 6 532 0 .
Actual Diameter in current in inches .
5.285 6 532 0 .
rent Cated .
' Iron .
Tin .
eterinc .
Tin-Lead Alloy ( 2 parts of Lead to 1 part of Tin ) .
Lead .
1887 .
] On Heatin.g Effects of Electric Currts .
29 value of the constant " " \ldquo ; for the different metals is fore : \mdash ; Inches .
Centimetres .
Copper . . . . . . . . . . .
Aluminium . . . . . . . . .
Platinum . . . . . . . . . .
German silver . . . . . . . . . . .
Platinoid . . . . . . . .
Iron . .
3190.9 . . . . .
Tin . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alloys ( lead and tin , 2 to 1 ) . . . . .
o Lead . . . . . . . . . . . .
The values in the second column are obtained from those in the first by multiplying the latter by Since gives the fusing current of any wire of a given diameter , inversely\mdash ; give diameter of the wire which will fuse with a given current C. Very useful tables can thus be calculated which }vould be of service to the electric [ Jan. , 1888.\mdash ; In these experiments the results obtained on ires finer than those recorded , , those below 10 mils , were excluded , because it was found that they did not follow the ] of the 3/ 2 power .
In the discussion which followed the reading of paper , Professor Ayrton pointed out that this be so , and that it followed from .
Box 's researches of 1868* hat the current required to maintain a fine wire of a given material at a iven definite excess of temperature is approximately directly proportional simply to the thickness of the wire .
This has been fully developed in a paper read Before the Society of Telegraph-Engineers and Electricians , No ( ' Jourual , ' vol. 16 , p. 539 ) .
] * ' A ical Treatise on Heat , '

