268 Dr. C. R. A. Wright and Mr. C. Thompson .
[ Dec. 15 , December 15 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President read a letter from H.M. Secretary of State for Home Affairs , announcing that Her Majesty had " been graciously pleased to command that the Royal Society be allowed to enjoy the privilege , on all fit and proper occasions , of presenting their addresses to the Sovereign on the Throne .
" The President was requested to convey to the Home Secretary the thanks of the Society for his communication , and to express their satisfaction that Her Majesty had been graciously pleased to honour the Society with this mark of the Royal recognition .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. Note on the Development of Feeble Currents by purely Physical Action , and on the Oxidation under Voltaic Influences of Metals not ordinarily regarded as spontaneously oxidisable .
" By C. R. Alder Wright , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics , and C. Thompson , F.C.S. , F.I.C. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , in St. Mary 's Hospital Medicai School .
Received November 24 , 1887 .
In the course of a series of further experiments on cells set up with " aeration plates " ( plates simultaneously in contact with the air and the electrolytic fluid used in the cells\#151 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , p. 212 ) , we have made a large number of determinations of the E.M.Fs .
developed with incorrodible aeration plates of various kinds ( e.g. , platinum foil , spongy platinum , thin sheet gold , \amp ; c. ) when opposed to the same oxidisable metal , such as copper or zinc , in contact with the same electrolytic fluid , e.g. , dilute sulphuric acid or caustic soda solution .
The details of these observations , when completed , will form the subject of a future paper ; whilst making them we have noticed that if two or more different kinds of aeration plates be set up on the surface of the fluid contained in a shallow basin in which the oxidisable metal is immersed , and sufficient time be allowed to elapse to enable the films of air attracted to the aeration plates to attain a 1887 .
} On the Development of Feeble Currents .
269 condition of equilibrium , different constant values are usually obtained for the E.M.Fs .
generated by opposing to the oxidlsable metal first one and then the other of any given pair of aeration plates , the currents generated being rendered throughout of too small density for " running down " to take place during the observations by interposing a large resistance in the circuit .
If when this state of constancy has been attained the two aeration plates be opposed to each other with a considerable resistance in circuit , a current passes from the one giving the higher value when opposed to the oxidisable plate through the external circuit to the other .
This current at first is of such magnitude as to correspond exactly with the E.M.F. due to the difference between the E.M.Fs .
exhibited when the two plates respectively are opposed to the oxidisable metal , but after some time it gradually diminishes ; even after several days , or even weeks , however , it is usually still measurable .
If a miniature silver voltameter be included in the circuit , in many cases an appreciable amount of crystalline silver is found to be slowly deposited on the negative electrode of the voltameter , which may conveniently be a thin gold wire immersed to a depth of a few millimetres in silver nitrate solution , a silver plate or wire forming the positive electrode .
Thus , for example , in various experiments the following figures were obtained , the aeration plates being arranged on the surface of dilute sulphuric acid r\#151 ; Nature of aeration plates .
Time in days .
Silver deposited in voltameter in milligrams .
Average current in microamperes during the period .
1 .
Spongy platinum and smooth platinum foil 14 10-5 7*7 2 .
Ditto ditto 18 1 -5 0 *8 3 .
Spongy platinum and smooth gold plate 24 65 a -8 4 .
Spongy gold and smooth gold gold plate 14 1*0 0*7 5 .
Spongy gold and platinum foil 24 1-25 0*5 Analogous results were obtained in various other cases with different electrolytic fluids , e.g. , spongy silver and smooth silver sheet with caustic soda solution .
In every case the action was greatest at first and gradually diminished , but never became absolutely nil .
The larger the surface of the aeration plates , as might be expected , the greater was the average current ; thus in experiment No. 1 above , plates exposing about 20 sq.c , surface ( one side , superficial measure- x 2 270 Dr. C. R. A. Wright and Mr. C. Thompson .
[ Dec. 15 , ment not reckoning inequalities of sponge ) were used , and in No. 2 plates only about one-fifth that size .
It is obvious that dnring the passage of a current the dilute sulphuric acid between the two plates must be electrolysed , so that hydrogen would tend to be liberated on the surface of the plate acquiring the higher potential , and oxygen on that of the other ; the hydrogen whilst nascent would necessarily be more or less completely oxidised to water by the oxygen of the film of condensed air , so that on the whole the net chemical action in the cell itself would be either nil ( if all hydrogen were so re-oxidised ) or one absorbing heat ( if some of the hydrogen escaped oxidation ) .
The oxygen slowly evolved would escape as such , being dissolved by the surrounding fluid .
The effect of this should accordingly be that the efficiency of the air film on the first plate would be more or less depreciated , and that on the second exalted ; in point of fact , if the two aeration plates in such an arrangement , which has been generating a current for some time , be ( by means of an appropriate switch ) disconnected from one another and successively opposed to a given oxidisable plate , the one does give a considerably lower and the other usually an appreciably higher value than the constant ones previously obtained ( \gt ; efore the two aeration plates were directly opposed to one another ) o i opposing each severally to the oxidisable metal ; whilst on allowing the cell to stand for some time generating no current , the lower value gradually rises and the raised one falls until sensibly the old constant values are again obtained .
We noticed , moreover , that when aeration plates of platinum-foil or sponge are used opposed to silver plates in conjunction with a fluid capable of dissolving silver oxide ( such as dilute sulphuric or acetic acid or ammonia solution ) distinctly larger amounts of current are usually developed than When opposed to carbon or gold plates , and that simultaneously silver passes into solution , the silver plate acquiring the lower potential , diminishing in weight , and , in short , behaving precisely as though it were an oxidisable metal , such as zinc or copper .
Obviously this is due to the circumstance that with silver the oxygen liberated attacks the metal of the plate acquiring the lower potential ; but the remarkable part of the action is that this attack is only partial , so that the amount of silver dissolved is invariably less than that equivalent to the current passing , i.e. , less than that deposited in a silver voltameter included in the circuit .
Thus the following numbers were obtained in a series of experiments , in each of which four similar cells containing platinum sponge aeration plates arranged in series were used in order to shorten the time of observation .
The electrolytic fluids used in the various cases were respectively $87 .
] On the Development of Feeble Currents .
271 A. Acetic acid solution , approximately of strength 14C2H402,100H20 .
B. Ditto also containing sodium acetate , approximately of strength 10C2H402,10NaC2H802,100H20 .
C. Ammonia solution originally of strength 10NH8,100H20 , but considerably weakened during the experiment by evaporation .
D. Ammonia solution also containing ammonium sulphate ; originally 10NH8,2-5(NB4)aS04,100H20 .
E. Ammonia solution also containing sal-ammoniac ; originally of strength 10NH3,5NH4C1 , IOOH20 .
E. Dilute sulphuric acid , 4H2S04,100H20 .
Time in hours .
Silver dissolved Silver deposited in voltameter .
Per cell per 24 hours .
Differ- ence .
In 4 cells jointly .
Per cell .
Silver deposited .
Silver dissolved .
A. 180 0-003 0 -00075 0 -0025 0-00033 o-oooio 0 -00023 B. 130 0 '0045 0-001125 0 0020 0-00037 0 -00021 0 00016 C. 08 0-015 000375 0-0060 .
0 0021 0 0014 0 0007 D. 136 0 1095 0 -027375 0 037 0 0065 0 -0048 0-0017 E. 44 .
0-086 0 0215 0-027 0 0147 0-0117 0 -0030 P. 96 0-348 0 087 0 097 0 -0242 0 -0217 0 0025 The difference between the silver dissolved and that deposited by the current is thus relatively much larger with the weakest currents , representing 43\#151 ; 69 per cent , of the latter in cases A and B ; 26\#151 ; 33 per cent , in cases C and D ; and 10\#151 ; 20 per cent , in cases E and E. It is obvious that if silver will dissolve in acids , \amp ; c. , under the comparatively feeble oxidising influence of an aeration plate , much more rapid solution might be anticipated by substituting for such a plate platinum immersed in a powerfully oxidising fluid such as strong nitric acid , or sulphuric acid solution of chromic anhydride .
In point of fact , we have found that on setting up such cells where the silver was immersed in dilute sulphuric acid ( t.e. , Grove 's cell with silver instead of zinc , and so on ) , electromotors of notable power are produced , at any rate until the silver plate becomes coated with sparingly soluble sulphate .
Even in these cases , however , perfect correspondence between the amount of silver dissolved and that deposited in a voltameter included in the circuit does not subsist , the latter being always measurably the greater .
Thus in several experiments with such cells , when the current was so regulated by interpos272 Development of Feehle Currents .
[ Dec. 15 , ing suitable resistances that the silver deposition in the voltameter was brought down to 0'1 to 02 gram of silver per 24 hours , the silver deposited always exceeded that dissolved by OOOl to 0008 gram .
Similarly two duplicate cells set up with silver plates immersed in ammonia , solution containing sal-ammoniac of strength about .'5NH3,5]NrH4Cl,100H2O , and opposed to platinum immersed in sulphuric acid solution containing chromic anhydride , gave the following figures , much more resistance being in circuit in the second experiment than in the first .
Time .
Silver deposited in voltameter .
Silver dissolved from plate .
Difference .
18 hours 0 514 gram 0-510 0 004 46 " 0 -107 " 0-106 o-ooi A similar cell containing ammonia solution without sal-ammoniac , and consequently having a very large internal resistance , caused only 0-013 gram of silver to be dissolved in eighteen hours , whilst 0-015 gram was deposited ; in this case a visible film of silver peroxide was formed on the silver plate ( a wire of pure metal ) .
Just as silver is capable of being dissolved in an appropriate fluid when opposed to an aeration plate , so may several other metals not ordinarily prone to atmospheric oxidation ; thus mercury with dilute sulphuric acid as fluid , and an aeration plate of platinum sponge , generates a measurable continuous current , formin in so doing , so that after some time the liquid becomes turbid through separation of that sparingly soluble salt , and the filtered fluid precipitates calomel on addition of dilute hydrochloric acid .
Acetic acid acts similarly , but far less energetically .
Potassium cyanide solution , on the other hand , causes a much more rapid solution of mercury , forming mercuric potassiocyanide ; it is noticeable that in this case only 100 parts of mercury go into solution for 108 of silver deposited in the voltameter , whereas when sulphuric acid is used 200 parts of mercury become sulphate per 108 of silver deposited .
If gold be substituted for mercury in this latter arrangement , rapid solution takes place with formation of of , 196 parts of gold being dissolved per 108 of silver thrown down in the voltameter ; the rate of action here , as in other analogous cases , can be notably increased by placing the gold plate and potassium cyanide solution in one basin and the aeration plate ( platinum , sponge ) in another with sulphuric acid , uniting the two fluids by a wide siphon , 1887 .
] Prof. Lockwood .
Development of , Sc. 273 so as to superadd to the other E.M.Fs .
in operation that due to the mutual neutralisation of the acid and alkali .
Palladium behaves precisely as gold , 52 parts of metal being dissolved per 108 of silver deposited ; local action sometimes causes in each case excess of amount dissolved relatively to the current passing , the opposite result to that observed with the silver cells above described .
Of course , if more powerful oxidising agents are used than simple aeration plates ( such as platinum in sulphuric-chromic solution ) , the action goes on in all such cases still more rapidly ; thus , for example , we did not succeed in dissolving gold in dilute hydrochloric alone by the use of an aeration plate simply ; but on replacing this by a platinum plate immersed in sulphuric-chromic liquor connected by a siphon with the dilute hydrochloric acid in which the gold was immersed , chlorination of the gold was readily effected with the formation in the first instance of aurous chloride , which rapidly broke up into particles of spongy gold and auric chloride in solution .
II .
" The Early Development of the Pericardium , Diaphragm , and Great Veins .
" By C. B. Lockwood , F.R.C.S. , Huuterian Professor of Anatomy in the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
Communicated by G. M. Humphry , F.R.S. Received November 26 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The history of the development of the pericardium , diaphragm , and great veins is traced by means of rabbit 's embryos ranging from the eighth to the seventeenth day of intrauterine life .
The splanchnic origin of the two halves of the heart is briefly illustrated , and each separate half is shown to project into the foremost end of the coelom .
The approximation of the halves of the heart , .and of the coelom in which they are contained , and the formation of the mesocardium posterius and anterius , is next narrated .
The course of the omphalomesenteric veins to the heart along the splanchnic wall of the coelom is then traced , and those vessels are shown to divide the coelom into two parts , a " cardiac " and a " pleuroperitoneal .
" At the beginning of the ninth day the coelom consists of two halves which are some distance apart towards the tail end , but converge towards the head to open behind the omphalomesenteric veins , into the cardiac portions of the .
coelom .
To adopt a rough comparison , the coelom is , at the beginning of the ninth day , not unlike a pair of trousers ; the cardiac portion would correspond to that part of the trousers which receives the pelvis , whilst the hinder parts of the coelom would correspond to the places for the legs .
To

