140 The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
III.\#151 ; Methylated Amino-acids .
By Professor James Walker , F.B.S. ( Received May 21 , \#151 ; Read May 31 , 1906 .
) ( From the Chemical Laboratory , University College , Dundee .
) The main object of the present communication is to discuss the results obtained by Johnston and Cumming* in their investigation of the affinity constants of methylated amino-acids .
Before entering on the discussion of these amphoteric electrolytes , however , it is necessary to refer to certain general principles applicable to the affinity constants of simple electrolytes , in particular of simple bases .
Amino-bases and their alkyl derivatives are supposed to exist in aqueous solution to a greater or less degree in the hydrated form , and it is this hydrated form winch we conceive to give rise to the characteristic ion OH ' of soluble bases .
Thus the alkalinity of ammonia solution is attributed primarily to the ionisation of ammonium hydroxide , according to the equilibrium equations NII3+ H20 n NH4OH r NH4 ' + OH ' .
Now , when we calculate the dissociation constant kb of such a base from measurements of conductivity , catalysis , or salt hydrolysis , the constant obtained is not the constant for the equilibrium between the non-ionised hydroxide and its ions , but one which is a function of this ionisation constant and of the hydration constant in addition.^ Thus a stoichiometrical comparison of the values of kh for such bases is not so simple as the corresponding comparison of ka for acids , since in general for acids no effective hydration is involved .
The value of the constant kbthen , depends not only on the direct effect of a substituent on the ionisation equilibrium , but also on the effect of the same substituent on the hydration equilibrium .
It is , of course , reasonable to expect that a substituent which increases the dissociation constant of an acid will , ccetparibus , diminish that of a base , and vice versed ; and this we see to be in general the case in the comparison of the acidic and basic constants given in the subjoined table :\#151 ; * See preceding papers , pp. 82 and 103 .
t Compare Walker , 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 83 , p. 182 , 1903 .
The Affinity Constants of Amph Electrolytes .
141 X = COOH X = NH3OH or NH2 + H20 H.X Jca X 10 ' .
21-4 kb x 10 ' .
2*3 HO .
X 0-03 \#151 ; CH3.X 1-8 52 CH2Me .
X 1-34 56 CHMe2.X 1-44 53 CMe3.X 0-98 32 C6H5.CH2.X 5-6 2-4 C6H5.X 6-0 0-00005 On the one hand we have the group of acetic acid and its methyl derivatives , on the other the group of methylainine and its O-methyl derivatives ; in each of these groups the constants vary but little .
Compared with formic acid and phenylacetic acid , the constants of the first group are considerably smaller ; compared with the corresponding bases , ammonia and benzylamine , the constants of the second group are considerably greater .
As no change in the hydration takes place in the acids considered , we may take it , from the general regularity displayed , that no change , or at least no great change , takes place in the hydration of the corresponding bases .
Consider , now , carbonic acid , HO .
COOH , the second member in the list of acids given above .
Generally speaking , the substitution of hydroxyl for hydrogen in the case of fatty acids effects a marked increase in the value of the acid constant .
The degree of hydration remaining the same , we should therefore expect that the acid constant of carbonic acid , HO .
COOH , should be decidedly greater than that of formic acid , H.COOH , of which it is the hydroxyl derivative .
We find , instead , that it has only 1/ 700 of the value of the constant for formic acid .
The conclusion may therefore be drawn that in the aqueous solution of carbonic acid by far the greater portion of the dissolved substance exists as the anhydride C02 .
Similar reasoning may be applied to the bases .
From the fact that the acid constants of benzoic acid , CeHs .
COOH , and of phenylacetic acid , CeH5.CH2.COOH , are nearly equal , we conclude that the carboxyl group may be attached directly to the benzene nucleus , or indirectly through the group CH2 without any decided change in the ionisation of the resulting acid taking place .
It is , therefore , probable that little change in the ionisation proper will result from the direct or indirect nature of the attachment of the basic group NH2 ( or NH3OH ) to the benzene nucleus , i.e. , we might expect aniline , C6H5.]SrH2 , and benzylamine , CeH5.CH2.NH2 to have nearly equal basic constants , the former perhaps slightly lower 142 Prof. J. Walker .
[ May 21 , Instead of this relation we find that the basic constant of aniline is only 1/ 50000 part of that of benzylamine .
We consequently attribute the smallness of the basic constant of aniline , and other derivatives in which the basic group is attached directly to the benzene nucleus , to a great diminution in the degree of hydration as compared with that of the bases in which the basic group is not in direct union with the benzene nucleus .
That the great diminution of the constant in the former case is not directly due to the influence of the phenyl group is sufficiently attested by the powerfully basic character of the compound C6H5.NMe3OH .
Here the formation of an anhydride is impossible , and although the basic group is directly united to the benzene nucleus , the base is as powerful as those in which the union is indirect .
Since the alkyl derivatives of aniline have values of fa of the same order as aniline itself , it seems not unsafe to deduce that all these substances as a group have approximately the same degree of hydration .
The bases considered above are all primary .
Bredig* has shown that secondary bases have greater constants than the corresponding primary bases , when the substituting groups are alkyls , but that , contrary to expectation , the tertiary bases are considerably weaker than the secondary bases , being roughly of the same order of strength as the primary bases to which they correspond .
Here , again , we probably have , owing to stereochemical influence , diminution in the hydration of the tertiary bases .
The nature of the variation may be illustrated from ammonia and its methyl derivatives:\#151 ; Tcb x 105 .
Ammonia , NH3 ... ... ... ... ... 2'3 Methylamine , NH2Me ... ... ... .
50 Dimethylamine , NHMe2 ... ... . .
74 Trimethylamine , NMe3 ... ... .
7'4 In the quaternary bases the hydration is necessarily complete , and the basic constant is incomparably greater , tetramethylammonium hydroxide , NMe4OH , being as strong a base as caustic potash .
When we consider the effect of a substituent in an amphoteric electrolyte , the question becomes still more complicated , because we have to deal with it from the point of view of acid as well as of base , and because there is , in addition to the possibility of dehydration of the basic group in the ordinary sense , the possibility of ring-formationf which affects both acidic and basic * ' Zeit .
physikal .
Chem. , ' vol. 13 , p. 299 , 1894 .
t Compare Sakurai , 'Chem .
Soc. Proe .
, ' p. 90 , 1894 ; p. 38 , 1896 .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
143 TSTTT constants * Thus the amphoteric amino-acid , generally written R\lt ; qqqjj\gt ; may exist in the non-ionised state in the solution as R\lt ; qqqjj\gt ; / NH3 and K\lt ; \ , without our being able to distinguish directly between these COO various forms .
The further complication of a " hermaphrodite ion " ( Zwitterion ) , ^^qqq-\gt ; nee(^ scarcely be considered , as in the present state of our knowledge concerning amphoteric electrolytes its assumption is unnecessary to explain the known phenomena .
In discussing the constants of amphoteric electrolytes , therefore , we must bear in mind that ring-formation will diminish the value of both acidic and basic constants , and prepare to encounter this disturbing factor in .
the comparison of constants of derivatives of the amino-acids .
I have already stated , with numerous examples , f that the primary effect of replacing a hydrogen atom by a methyl group is in general to diminish the constant of an acid .
This may be seen to be the case for the methyl derivatives of acetic acid tabulated on p. 141 .
Conversely , the methylation of ammonia , up to the stage of dimethylamine at least , is accompanied by increase in the value of the basic constant .
One might consequently imagine the direct effect of the introduction of a methyl group into the basic radical of an amino-acid would be to increase the value of the basic constant and perhaps slightly diminish the value of the acid constant .
If , however , the introduction of the methyl group increased the extent of ring-formation or brought the acidic and basic radicals into closer approximation , then the secondary stereochemical effect would be a diminution of both acidic and basic constants.| Since the introduction of a methyl group into a primary amine is not associated with any great increase in the value of the basic constant , we should not expect the primary effect of a similar substitution in an amphoteric electrolyte to be any great variation either of ka or of The secondary effect of the stereochemical approximation of the active radicals might , however , be many times greater , since we know that in the case of dibasic acids the reinforcement of each carboxyl group by the other is in general much increased by the stereochemical influence of the introduction of methyl groups .
S * R. Wegscheider , ' Sitzungsber .
d. kaiserl .
Akad .
d. Wiss .
in Wien , Matli.-naturw .
Kl .
, ' vol. 114 , Abt .
ii , b. , 1905 .
+ 'Chem .
So .
Journ. , ' vol. 77 , p. 397 , 1900 .
+ Compare Winkelblech , ' Zeit .
physikal .
Chem. , ' vol. 36 , p. 588 , 1901 .
S Compare Bone Sudborough , and Sprankling , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 85 , p. 540 , 1904 .
144 .
Prof. J. Walker .
[ May 21 , Now in the three aminobenzoic acids we should expect the influence of each active radical on the other to be greatest in the case of the ortho-acid , and least in the case of the para-acid .
The following table gives the constants for these substances and their methyl derivatives .
Ortho .
Para .
ka X 105 .
kbx 1012 .
Tca X 105 .
kb x 1012 .
A minobenzoic acid 1 -4 1 -3 1 -2 2-5 Monomethyl derivative 0-46 0-9 0-92 1-7 Dimethyl derivative 0 00023 0-28 0-94 3 -2 The derivatives of the para-acid show a slight fall of the acid constant , and , from the first to the last member , a slight increase of the basic constant .
Here the stereochemical effect ( including change of ring-formation ) seems to be almost absent , and the primary influence of the methyl groups is apparent .
In the ortho series , on the other hand , we have a very distinct falling off of the acid constant in passing from the first to the second member , and an enormous diminution in passing from the second to the third .
The fall of the basic constant is less well marked and more regular .
The very small value of Jca for dimethylortho-aminobenzoic acid is probably to be attributed to ring-formation.* A similar diminution in the basic constant by ring-formation need not be looked for , since the basic radical involved in the ring-formation must already , when directly attached to the benzene nucleus , be almost wholly anhydrous ( compare p. 142 ) .
The meta derivatives resemble those of the para series more closely than those of the ortho series:\#151 ; ka X 105 .
kb x 1012 .
Meta-aminobenzoic acid 1-6 13 Monomethyl derivative 0-8 12 Dimethyl derivative 0-8 19 The peculiarity which they exhibit is the comparatively great value of all the basic constants .
In the case of glycine ( amino-acetic acid ) we should expect the acidic and basic radicals , owing to their proximity , greatly to affect and neutralise each other .
This we find very pronouncedly in the acklic constants , which have only about 1/ 50000 of the value of the corresponding constants of the aminobenzoic acids .
* Compare Cumming , loo . .
, p. 122 .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
X 105 .
kb x 1012 .
Amino-acetic acid ... ... ... ... ... 0000034 2'9 Monomethyl derivative ... ... ... .
0R00013 1-8 Dimethyl derivative ... ... ... 0'000014 1*1 From this table it will be seen that the values of the acid constant of the amino-acetic series are even smaller than that of ortho-dimethyl-amino-benzoic acid , pointing to even more extensive ring-formation .
The primary effect of the introduction of a basic radical into acetic acid could scarcely produce this reduction of the acidic constant from 1*8 x 10-5 to 3-4 x 10-10 , for the introduction of an amino group into the ortho position of benzoic acid only reduces the acidic constant to about one-fourth of its former value , namely , from CeHs .
COOH = 6'0 x 10-5 to NH2.C6H4.COOH = 1*4 x 10-5 .
It need scarcely be pointed out that the comparatively slight diminution of the constant of benzoic acid by the introduction of an amino group indicates the presence of little or no ring-formation in the amino-benzoic acids .
A consideration of the esters of amino-acids is , to some extent , helpful in dealing with the effect of hydration and ring-formation on the basic constants of these acids .
If the carboxyl group of an amino-acid is esterised , no ringNH formation is possible , i.e. , ^\lt ; QQQ]\pe is n't convertible by solution in water into R\lt ; ^ \ NH2Me COO By comparison , then , of the basic constants of the aminoacid and of its ester , we may obtain some information as to the state of the acid in solution .
The probable effect of the substitution of the group COOMe for the carboxyl group CO OH may be ascertained from the consideration of the same substitution in dibasic acids .
I have shown elsewhere* that the substitution of COOEt or COOMe for one CO OH group in a dibasic acid reduces the acid constant of the latter to approximately half its original value , provided that there is no great stereochemical influence of the two carboxyl groups in the original acid .
Wegscheider , f in a theoretical treatment of the subject , deduced the relation K = 2 h for a symmetrical dibasic acid , K being the observed acidic constant of the acid , and Jc the constant for each carboxyl group singly .
If , therefore , the constant of the ester-acid is half that of the dibasic acid we conclude that the * ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 61 , p. 696 , 1892 .
t ' Monatshefte fur Chem. , ' vol. 16 , p. 153 , 1895 ; ibid. , vol. 23 , p. 346 , 1902 .
VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; A. L Prof. J. Walker .
[ May 21 , influence of the COOMe group or the COOH group on the other carboxyl group is precisely the same .
From another point of view the matter appears as follows .
If the two carboxyl groups of a dibasic acid are sufficiently far apart to exert no stereochemical influence on each other , the double value of the constant of the dibasic acid is simply due to the double number of ionisable carboxyl groups in the solution , since the concentrations ( or dilutions ) used in calculating the dissociation constants are molecular and not equivalent concentrations ( or dilutions).* In short , if we calculate with equivalent dilutions , instead of molecular dilutions , the dissociation constant of a symmetrical dibasic acid will be the same as that of a monobasic acid of the same structure .
The constant of suberic acid , COOH .
CH2.CH2.CH2 CH2.CH2.CH2.COOH , is ka = 0-0000296 .
That of butyric acid , CH3.CH2.CH2.COOH , is 0-0000149 .
How , in the expression m2/ ( l\#151 ; m)v = 0-0000296 for suberic acid , let us substitute the equivalent dilution , v ' = 0-5 v , for the molecular dilution v , and we obtain m2/ ( l\#151 ; m)v/ = 0"0000148 , practically identical with the acidic constant of butyric acid .
We may take it , then , that the carboxyl groups in suberic acid do not reinforce each other at all .
The dissociation constant of succinic acid , COOH .
CH2 ; CH2.COOH , is 0*000068 ; that of acetic acid , CH3.COOH , is 0-000018 , when molecular dilutions are reckoned .
The constant of succinic acid , when reduced to equivalent .dilution , is 0-000034 .
It is thus greater than that of the monobasic acetic acid , and we may legitimately infer , therefore , that the carboxyl groups in succinic acid reinforce each other considerably .
Coming now to the ester-acids , we have for hydrogen ethyl suberate , COOEt .
CH3.CH2.CH2.CH2.CH2.CH2.COOH , k = 0-0000146 .
This is almost equal to the value for an equivalent solution of suberic acid , as we might expect , since we have seen that the carboxyl groups of suberic acid do not reinforce each other , except in as far as each neutralises the slight positive effect of the extended hydrocarbon radical .
This latter neutralising effect is equally well produced by the COOEt group .
* For purposes of comparison it would be better to refer throughout to equivalent instead of molecular concentrations , at least when the poly basic acids are symmetrical , or nearly so .
Thus the Ostwald affinity constants of dibasic acids should be divided by 2 those of tribasic acids by 3 , etc. , for effective comparison with monobasic acids .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
147 In succinic acid we have just seen that the carboxyl groups reinforce each other .
It is therefore to be expected that in the ester acid , COOEt .
CH2.CH2.COOH , the group COOEt should exert an influence on the remaining COOH group .
Comparing equivalent concentrations , we have the constants : Acid .
Tc x 105 .
H.CH2.COOH ... ... ... ... ... .
1-8 COOEt .
CH2.CH2.COOH ... ... . .
3-0 |(.CH2.COOH)2 ... ... ... ... .
3-4 The influence of the group COOEt is here less than that of the COOH group , but only slightly less .
In general , we may say that when the carboxyl groups do not very strongly reinforce each other , the COOEt , COOMe , or COOH groups have practically the same effect on a carboxyl group .
When there is very strong reinforcement , as in the case of malonic or maleic acids , the effect of the ester group is much less than that of the carboxyl group.* Applying these results now to the consideration of amphoteric electrolytes , we should expect that when there is no great stereochemical influence of the acidic and basic radicals on each other , the esterisation of the acid should produce little or no change in the value of the basic constant , provided , of course , that there is no change in the extent of hydration .
We have already deduced that the reciprocal influence of the acidic and basic radicals in the para-aminobenzoic series is slight .
There should be little difference , therefore , in the basic constants of these acids and their methyl esters .
Para Series .
Acid .
Ester .
* Jcb x 1012 .
kbx 1012 .
Aminobenzoic acid 2-5 2*4 Monomethyl derivative ... 1*7 21 Dimethyl derivative 3-2 3-3 It is evident from these figures that the theoretical requirements are closely fulfilled , and that the extinction of the acidic radical has little effect on the basic portion of the molecule .
Take , now , the ortho series , in which the stereochemical influence is greater .
* Compare Wegscheider , ' Monatshefte , ' loc. cit. Prof. J. Walker .
[ May 21 , Ortho Series .
Acid .
Ester .
Tcbx 1012 .
Tc0 x 1012 .
Aminobenzoic acid 1-3 17 Monometliyl derivative ... 0-94 33 Dimethyl derivative 0-28 60 In the methyl derivatives the differences between acid and ester are great , but , since for anthranilic acid itself the difference is small , we should be inclined to refer the greater differences observed with its derivatives rather to increased hydration than to the direct effect of the substitution of COOMe for COOH .
As far as can be judged from the data available , the meta series takes up .
with regard to the ratio between acid and ester , a position intermediate between the ortho and para series .
Meta Series .
Acid .
Ester .
Tcb x 1012 .
hbx 1012 .
Aminobenzoic acid 133 43-6 Monomethyl derivative 121 \#151 ; Dimethyl derivative ... 19-4 72-6 The data for the glycine series are somewhat scanty , as it was not found possible to prepare the esters of sarcosine and dimethylglycine by the methods which proved successful for the preparation of the esters mentioned above .
There is little doubt , however , that here the esterisation greatly increases the value of the basic constant .
Thus for glycine itself we have Acid .
Ester .
Tcbx 1012 .
Tcb x 1012 .
Glycine 2-9 220 The theoretical deductions , then , with regard to the relation between the constants of amino-acids and their esters , are thus satisfactorily concordant with the experimental results .
When we come to consider the betaines , we find that whilst the basic properties are still in some cases almost entirely disappeared :\#151 ; well marked , the acid properties have Betaines .
ha X 1012 .
hb X 1012 .
Betaine ca .
001 0-87 Ortho-benzbetaine . .
ca .
O'Ol 0-28 Meta-benzbetaine . .
ca .
O'Ol 33-9 Para-benzbetaine . .
ca .
OOl 32-3 1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
149 Here , again , the stereochemical influence is evident in betaine and ortho-benzbetaine , which are much more weakly basic than meta-benzbetaine and para-benzbetaine .
The hydrated form of a betaine is hi which the basic group is quaternary and , therefore , very powerful ; the acid group , on the other hand , is of the usual comparatively feeble type .
Even then , though ring-formation has become so nearly complete as to bring about the practical disappearance of acid properties , the basic properties will still persist in a measurable degree , owing to the inherent strength of the free basic group .
The powerfully basic character of the quaternary group is rendered evident by Dr. Gumming 's observations on the autosaponification of the ester o-CeH*\lt ; \lt ; ^0()an\lt ; ^ ^ie ac^on this ester on methyl acetate , * which it saponifies at a rate comparable to that attained by an equivalent solution of caustic soda .
The chlorides and iodides of these betaine-esters were all found to possess a slightly acid reaction to azolitmin .
This is at first sight surprising , since the substances themselves have no acid group , and since , with bases of such great strength , there can be no appreciable hydrolysis of their salts in aqueous solution .
It must be borne in mind , however , that the substances , being esters , are liable to become hydrolysed ( saponified ) when dissolved in water , with production of minute quantities of the corresponding acid ( betaine salt).f Now , this is the salt of such a feeble base that at small concentrations it is practically all hydrolysed into the betaine and the strong mineral acid .
The traces of mineral acid thus produced would sufficiently account for the feebly acid reaction of the solutions .
Probably the methyl acetate catalysis observed with betaine ethyl ester chloride^ is attributable to the same cause , in part at least , the observed value of kb , viz. , 10"u , being probably much smaller than that of the real basic constant of betaine ethyl ester hydroxide .
* Loc .
cit. , p. 127 .
t Cumming , p. 124 .
X Johnston , p. 100 .

