472 Mr. C. B. Clarke .
[ Feb. 25 , mens demonstrate the exact features of these structures .
Professor Bertrand , of Lille , and M. Hovelacque , of Paris , have simultaneously investigated the two lateral points on the leaf-scar , to which the former author has given the name of which name Professor Williamson adopts .
But these two palaeontologists have further called attention to a fourth structure in these leaves , hitherto , in some degree , overlooked ; and which they designated the The author finds this organ well developed both in L. and in LepidopMoios , but rejects the name ligule , on the ground that he cannot identify the fossil structure with the organ bearing the same name in living Isoetes and Selaginellae .
He , therefore , adopts for the former the term Adenoid organ , believing it to have had glandular functions .
Details are also given of the organisation of several forms of Lepidostrobi , some \#169 ; f which are identified with their parent plants .
The general conclusion arrived at by the author in reference to the L. Harcourtii , which has been so often made the subject of debate during the last twenty years , is that it occupies no exceptional position amongst the other Lepidodendra , but that whilst palaeontologists in various parts of the world quote the species as one with the organisation of which they were familiar , they were all alike mistaken in their determinations .
Until now no specimen of the same plant has been in the possession of any observer less imperfect than that described by Brongniart ; hence , when in the past authors have , as was my own case , referred various examples of cortex , leaves , and fruits to Lepidodendron Harcourtii , we have no evidence whatever that such references are true ones .
If such references are still declared to be authoritative , I must ask where the specimens are to be seen that carry our knowledge beyond what we derived from Harcourt 's imperfect branch .
IV .
" On Biologic Regions and Tabulation Areas .
" By C. B. Clarke , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) Biologic regions have been used for two purposes , viz. : ( 1 ) to exhibit the most natural primary divisions of the globe , so far as the distribution of existing Mammalia ( or of plants or living things ) is concerned ; ( 2 ) as areas of reference on which the complete distribution of a large genus or order of plants or animals may be tabulated .
It is clearly of the highest importance that one set of areas of reference should be employed by all naturalists , as foreseen by Mr. Wallace when he devised his primary zoologic regions and sub-regions .
If one naturalist tabulates one order of Butterflies on one geographic 1892 .
] On Biologic Regions and Tabulation Areas .
framework , and another naturalist tabulates another order of Butterflies on a different geographic framework , the results of the two naturalists can only be combined by doing the tabulation all over again , instead of by a simple addition .
Naturalists have not agreed on one system of primary reference areas ; and , consequently , it is not possible to combine the results attained by different writers .
The first reason why naturalists have not accepted Wallace 's recommendation is that his regions do not appear the most natural to many naturalists ; Professor Huxley , Dr. Gunther , and numerous botanists have proposed widely different regions as more natural .
A second reason why these regions have not been used for tabulations is that their boundaries are ( in many important cases ) not accurately defined .
I have been for eighteen months past making trial of various geographic frameworks on which to tabulate the distribution of 2000 species of plants ; and I have constructed a considerable number of maps , and have executed trial tabulations of a few genera on them .
I have arrived at one conclusion which I deem of sufficient importance to bring before this Society , viz. , that the two objects hitherto confounded in the designing of biologic regions must be kept entirely separate .
Biologic regions representing the natural distribution of Mammalia or of life are not convenient to use as tabulation areas .
I may venture to say , indeed , that the more perfectly natural the biologic regions are , and the more complex and detailed their boundary lines , the more impossible they are to use as reference areas or as tabulation areas on any considerable scale .
The idea of biologic regions presupposes a geographic framework of some kind on which the area of each genus of animals or plants was previously plotted .
It appears to me that all naturalists , zoologists , botanists , and palaeontologists , might easily agree to use one system of tabulation areas .
Out of the results attained on this system , they might construct various biologic regions , each to please himself .
I have constructed , as a reference map for my own tabulations , the Map B. I would urge naturalists to use this , or that a committee be s appointed to design a better , which should be put out by authority .
This Map B I have gradually arrived at by fixing down accurately 1 the boundaries , and otherwise modifying the Map A , which is ; Wallace 's map of zoologic regions .
My object has been to make the smallest alterations in Wallace 's map consistent with easy tabula-j tion .
The greater part of the paper here abstracted is occupied with a detailed discussion of various boundary lines in the Map B , in order to bring out clearly the principles which should guide us in forming Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Feb. 25 , oar tabulation areas .
One main object is that our primary framework of areas and .
sub-areas should separate our species and genera ( so far as possible ) into those areas and snb-areas ; if a boundary line is drawn between two sub-areas A and B , so that nearly all the species found on one side of it are also found on the other , then we might as well , in this tabulation , have thrown the two sub-areas A and B into one , and saved ourselves labour .
This brings us round practically pretty nearly to Wallace 's view again ; i.e. , geographic framework for reference and tabulation must be as near as possible to a system of natural biologic regions , subject to the condition that the boundary lines are rapidly and accurately fixed , and are easily remembered .
It is impracticable to effect large tabulations of tens of thousands of specimens if it is necessary continually to refer to some special large-scale map .
The present paper is not intended to include marine regions or areas .
V. " The Electric Organ of the Skate : Observations on the Structure , Relations , Progressive Development , and Growth of the Electric Organ of the Skate .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of .
Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Prof. J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received February 10 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the observations of Stark , the discoverer of the skate 's electric organ , and to the work of Robin , Leydig , Babuchin , and others , the author describes the arrangement of the muscles in the tail of Selachians with a view to determining which muscles in the skate are transformed into the electric organs .
By comparing the caudal muscles of , and Raia , it is made out that , while the middle row of muscular cones remains unaltered in the sharks and rays , it is transformed into a more or less perfect electric organ in the skates , the various members of the genus Raia .
It is pointed out that , while the middle row of muscular cones is transformed in Raia into electric cones , the two adjacent rows of cones as in the rays and certain sharks diminish in size , and in some cases disappear about the middle of the tail .
In considering the structure of the organ , it is stated that , when the various modifications are taken into consideration , it may he described as consisting of a series of electric cones made up of more or less completely metamorphosed muscular fibres .
Twenty-eight distinct cones were counted in the organ of R. batis .
The first , which in a half grown fish measured 5 cm .
in length , was all hut

