]\gt ; [ 615 ] XVIII .
On the Changes which take place in the of ' tloe Standard Compass in the Iron , Iron , Composite-built Ships of the Royal Navy , on considerable of gnetic Latitude .
Staff Commander E. W. CREAK , R.N. , of the Adrniralty rtment .
by Sir FREDERICK J. O. vANS , K.C.B. , of the Admiralty .
Received March l , \mdash ; Read March 15 , 1883 .
period comprised between the years 1855-68 was one of active research into the magnetic character of the armour-plated and other ships of the Royal Navy and the iron ships of the Mercantile Navy .
It will be remembered that the Transactions of the Royal Society are rich in contributions to this important and interesting subject ; important in a practical sense to the navigator , and of great interest as a subject of intelligent inquiry .
Among these contributions was a paper read before the Royal Society in March , 1865 , " " On the Magnetic Character of the Armour-plated ships of the Royal Navy , and on the effect on the compass of particular arrangements of Iron in a ship by FREDERICK JOHN EVANS , Esq. , Stafl Commander , , F.R.S. , and ARCHIBALD SMITH , Esq. , M.A. , F.R. .
This paper contained the earliest published results of the system of observation and analysis of the deviations of the compass in the ships of the Royal Navy , which , established in 1861 , has been carried out to the present day .
These results showed the magnetic character of the several ships named , from the time of launching until fully equipped and at sea , and also an analysis of the semicircular deviation of those ships which had made short voyages abroad .
But the change of magnetic latitude through which the ships passed was so small , and the alternative of the ships in one latitude so difficult , that the authors of the paper were unable to ascertain any but approximate values of the proportions of hard and soft iron affecting their compasses .
The authors write : ' The determination of the proportion of the semicircular deviation , or rather of , which arises from vertical induction in soft iron , and that which arises from the permanent or sub-permanent magnetism of hard iron , is a matter of great interest .
Theoretically it may be determined in two modes , either by observing the deviation in two different magnetic latitudes , or by observing the deviation with the ship upright nd heeled over .
Unfortunately there is a great want of observations under these circumstances During the last fifteen years long voyages into high southern magnetic inclination or dip , have been made in every class of ship in the Royal Navy , except Turretships , and according to the established system of the Admiralt Compass Department , the observed deviations of their compasses made in all latitudes have been analysed to obtain the values of their coefficients as shown in Table III .
of this paper .
From these coefficients , the constants of the hard and soft iron producing seinicircular deviation at the Standard Compass positions have been computed .
A knowledge of these Constants not only proyides a means of predicting for the particular ship examined the probable changes which will take place in her deviation in all parts of the navigable world , but also the power of doing the same for other ships of the same class .
Such being the case , it is thought that the Royal Society wiIl be interested in receiving a paper treating of these subjects , commencing from the time the ships are fully equipped and ready for sea .
The earlier magnetic history of the ships might have been included , but the changes which take place in their fitting , and the numerous iron bodies introduced after launching , render a comparison of the deviations observed at different stages of equipment unsatisfactory .
It is proposed to consider six classes of ships , each of which has been selected for the long range of magnetic latitude over which the ships have sailed:\mdash ; 1 .
Iron , armour-plated .
2 .
Iron cased with wood .
3 .
Iron troop-ships .
4 .
and iron cased with wood .
5 .
Composite built .
6 .
Vooden ships with iron beams and vertical bulkheads .
These ships have nearly all been launched upwards of a year previous to the observations bout to be discussed , and subjected to the vibration caused by steaming at high rates of speed with powerful engines .
They may therefore be consideled to have attained a state of magnetic stability .
At the close of this paper will be found in Table III .
a short description of the ships , the direction in which they were built , and the coefficients for each Standard Compass .
It is not intended to repeat the several mathematical formulae by means of which * Tbo vessels have iron frames , and are plated with mild steel , containing .
per cent. of carbon .
See Phil. Trans. , 1865 , Part I. , pp. 279-280 .
SA COMPASS IN IRON ARMOUR-PLATED , IRON , AND COMPOSITE SHIPS .
these coefficients have been computed , as they , together with the methods of making the original observations , were so fnlly described in the paper on " " The Magnetic Character of the Armour-plated ships of the Royal Navy \amp ; c. , 1865 , to which allusion has already been made .
On comparing the results , however , in that paper with those now brought forward for discussion , a remarkable difference will be observed .
In the paper for 1865 , the coefficients of the semicircular deviation are those of compasses to which no mechanical correction by permanent magnets had been applied .
The corresponding coefficients in the accompanying Table III .
have , with the exception of the original values in England , been computed from the deviation of npasses for which a permanent bar magnet , or magnets , has been employed to annul or correct the semicircular deviation .
This correcting magnet has in every case been permanently fixed horizontally in the compass pillar , in the resultant of the magnetic forces producing semicircular deviation , and at a distance iound tentatively below the card , after the several horizontal and vertical forces affecting the compass had been ascertained .
It may be , whether this application of correcting bar magnets of possible variable magnetic moment does not in itself introduce an element of change in the deviation in addition to those of the ship ?
It may be answered , with the reasonable confidence induced by fifteen years ' trial , that the permanency of the magnetic moment of the magnets employed is considered to be assnred .
Thus , in the ships named in the tables , the correction by nets may be considered as the introduction into them of a permanent magnetic force acting independently on their compasses , aIjd in opposition to the permanent magnetic forces of the ships .
It is now proposed to pass on to the chief object of this papel , which is to show the amount and direction of the changes which take place in the deviations of the standard compasses in six different classes of modern vessels in the Royal Navy , on change of magnetic latitude .
Taking the exact coefficients in Table III .
in the order in which they stand we have first : The constant Some rather large values of this coefficient are found in the tables , but it has been proved that for standard compasses placed in the central fore and aft line of the vcssel where the iron is symmetrically placed with respect to that position , little or no real value from magnetic causes has been observed .
An error in the bearing of the distant object used for swinging the ship , swinging her too fast , or prism error in the azimuth circle , gives fictitious values of this coefficient , which those in the table are considered to be .
Semicircular deviation .
Coefficient ( approximate value in degrees ) is the maximum of semicircular deviation from fore and aft forces ; arises from soft iron ; - from hard iron .
Coefficient ( approximate value in degrees ) is the maximum of semicircular deviation from transverse forces ; arises from soft iron , and is zero if the iron is symmetrically arranged ; from hard iron .
For determining and separately , when has been determined in two different magnetic latitudes , the foregoing equations are put under the form , and similarly for and when has been determined in two different latitudes .
From the values of and in the table , the constants and and , have been calculated by the above formulae , and the results are given in Table I. , which for convenience has been placed at the end of paper .
The explanation of this table is as follows:\mdash ; The quantities found in the columns headed ' ' Original \ldquo ; and " " Originol \ldquo ; are the constants and , arising from the hard iron of the ship before correction by magnets , and which are mainly dependent for their values and sig upon the direction in which the ship 's head lay during building .
This direction is given under each ship 's name .
In the columns headed ' Corrected and ' Corrected \ldquo ; are shown the constants and as altered by the correcting magnets .
The quantities and ( with their equivalents expressed in degrees ) are the changing parts of the coefficients and respectively , for the South of England , which can only be colrected for all latitudes by vertical soft iron bars .
From the constants and in the remaining columns , the changing palt of the COMPASS IN IRON ARMOUR-PLATED , IRON , AND COMPOSITE SHIPS .
619 , coefficients and , arising from vertical induction in soft iron , may be computed whenever the magnetic inclination or dip is known , or can be taken from charts of that element .
Before further investigating the effects of a change of magnetic latitude on the coefficients , the question of how far time affects the constants and requires consideration .
On looking over the values of and , it will be remarked that in some ships a change takes place immediately after leaving England , which appears to be neither due to time nor change of latitude , but to another cause which will hereafter be referred to .
Taking the values obtained subsequently at different times in the same geographical position it will be found\mdash ; P. Change .
Q. Change .
Bellerophon.\mdash ; Quebec . . . . . .
Iron Duke.\mdash ; Hong-Kong . . . . .
Northampton.\mdash ; Halifax , N.S. . . . .
Active.\mdash ; Simon 's Bay , C. G. Hope .
Raleigh.\mdash ; Spithead . . . . . .
Inconstant\mdash ; Spithead . . . . . .
Himalaya .
, C. G. Hope .
Albatross.\mdash ; Sheerness and Plymouth .
Boxer.\mdash ; Esquimault , .
I. . . . . .
Encounter. 's Bay , C. G. Hope .
Thus , in the worst case amongst the armour-plated , iron , and composite vessels , takes a year to alter , and generally two or three years for about half that amount .
A change of 015 in would make about a degree change in the deviation .
This evidently slow change of by time is important , as should alter during the ship 's sailing over a long range of magnetic latitude , the values of , as found by the above formulae , are correspondingly untrustworthy .
With regard to the constant , although more subject to change by time than , it is comparatively of less importance , as , with few exceptions , the value of the constant , which depends on the constancy of , is , if not zero , so small as to be neglected .
Having accepted as the result of fifteen years ' trial that the correcting bar nets STAFF COMMANDER E. W. CREAK ON THE DEVIATIONS OF THE are of constant magnetic moment , it would be reasonable to expect that the constants and should remain unchanged in value , except the ] decrease due to time .
This is nearly the case , yet there are small fluctuations in them which demand notice .
It is known that if an iron vessel be placed in dock for any length of time in one direction with respect to the magnetic meridian , the values of , and especially undergo small changes dependent upon that relation .
If , in addition , the vessel be subjected at the same time to concussion , from whatever cause , the change is greater .
On the return of the vessel to her anchorage , or on proceeding to sea when the direction of her head varies frequently , and return slowly to their original value .
It may therefore be inferred , that although and as shown in the tables are for the most part due to permanent magnetism in the hard iron of the ship , there is a small part which is sub-permanent and subject to alterations from concussion , or the vibratory motion caused in the ship by powerful steam-engines when proceeding in a given direction for several days .
On the removal of the cause inducing the change in and they gradually return to their original values .
In the turret ships of the Royal Navy , where the standard compass is necessarily placed on a thin iron superstructure , this temporary dislocation of parts of and caused by the concussion of firing heavy guns and subsequent gradual recovery , is well known and provided for on board by constant observation for deviation of the compass .
Before considering the constants and , which represent the chief part of the changes which take place in the deviation of the compass on change of etic latitude , a few preliminary remarks appear to be necessary .
In " " Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism No. Sir EDWARD SABINE lecords the result of his investigations as to the effects of a change of magnetic latitude on the deviation of the Standard Compass of some wooden sailing ships of forty years ago .
He concluded that their deviations were caused by vertical induction in soft iron , that they did not change directly in proportion to the dip , but there was a lagging behind proceeding from a slowness in the soft iron to part with its induced magnetism .
For example , a ship passing quickly from N. to N. , dip , would find the deviation due to vertical induction in N. , dip , to be that of or N. In considering how far this theory applies to modern armour-plated and iron vessels , it may help to clear the question to note the rapidity with which horizontal soft iron , when ised by the earth 's horizontal force , takes up and parts with its induced magnetism , as exemplified in swinging a ship for deviation of the compass .
In this operation\mdash ; during which the direction of the ship 's head passes through a complete circle\mdash ; the deviation caused by horizontal induction in soft iron attains two maxima in an easterly and two in a westerly direction within an hour and a half .
* See Phil. Trans. , 1849 .
COMPASS IN IRON ARMOUR-PLATED , IRON , AND COMPOSITE SHIPS .
621 Looking to this result , it hardly seems probable that vertical induction in soft iron should be slower in its action , and require perhaps days for fnll development .
Among the iron armour-plated ships of the tables we have , in the case of the " " Triumph\ldquo ; and ' ' Swiftsure\ldquo ; ( two sister ships ) , experimental evidence that there is no sign of ' ' lagging\ldquo ; in the changing part of their deviation , but that it alters directly as the tangent of the dip for any given position of the ship .
Both vessels , from requirements of the service , have their standard compasses placed unusually far from the stern , in a position 13 feet from the top of an almour-plated transverse bulkhead 5 inches thick .
These ships were swung in the course of a few successive months , the observed deviations in each case but one corresponding with the dip at the locality , the values of which were as follows:\mdash ; Triumph .
Range of Swiftsure . .
Range of To proceed with the constants and The values of are very valuable , not only as a means of predicting the probable change of deviation for the particular ships in which they are known , but also for ships of similar construction .
As an illustration of the of this constant in certain ships , the following examples are given where sister ships are bracketed:\mdash ; Shah . . .
Raleigh . . . . .
Carysfort* .
Firefly . . . . .
Wrangler . . . . .
The " " Carysfort\ldquo ; is a sister to Comus\ldquo ; in every respect , with the exception that the former has no vertical iron shaft through which the screw is raised .
In the Comus\ldquo ; and ' Cleopatra\ldquo ; this shaft is 80 feet from the compass .
NDCCCLXXXIn .
From the position of the standard compass in the " " Northampton\ldquo ; and " " Nelson 83 feet from the stern , a positive value of might have been expecied ; but there is a transverse armoured bulkhead , 8 inches thick , the top of which is 30 feet nearer the stern than the compass in each vessel , which is the probable cause of the minus sign for It is a subject for further inquiry as to what extent iron masts contribute to the values of ) the Standard Compass is placed near them .
A series of experiments was made near Athens , where the magnetic dip is approximately N. , and at , in S. dip , on board the " " Ruby.\ldquo ; ' The Standard Compass of this ship is placed at 6 feet 9 inches from the iron mizenmast .
The results showed that at three different parts of the mast ( on a level with the compass , and a few feet above , and below that level ) the effects of transient induction were very small , and that the acted almost entirely as a permanent magnet .
The remaining constant of the semicircular deviation , , is one which has hitherto been accepted as zero , from the iron in the transverse section of the ships of the Royal Navy\mdash ; except turret ships\mdash ; being considered as placed symmetrically with respect to the Standard Compass .
In the Table I. , however , there are five ships for which values of have been discovered , and one , the " " Triumph in which it reaches an amount which could not be disregarded in a forecast of that vessel 's deviation for any given geographical position .
From Table I. the following values of have been collected:\mdash ; in England .
Bellerophon .
Triumph .
Swiftsure Active . . . . .
Himalaya Comus From the peculiar construction of some of the later types of armour-plated ships the constant will probably attain higher values than those hitherto experienced .
Quadrantal deviation .
Coefficient ( approximate value in degrees ) is the maximum of quadrantal deviation from soft iron symmetrically placed .
Coefficient ( approximate value in degrees ) is the maximum of quadrant deviation from soft iron unsymmetrically placed .
*These experiments were made by Navigating Lieutenant HENDERSON , R.N. , of the " " Ruby COMPASS IN IRON , IRON , AND COMPOSITE SHIPS .
On again referring to the paper ' On the Magnetic Character of Armour-plated Ships , \amp ; c of 1865 , we read at Page 275 , " " and do not change with a change of , position As regards this is fully confirmed by the results in the tables .
Time alone appears to cause a gradual change in this coefficient during the first two or three years after launching , after which it remains remarkably permanent .
Coefficient has no real value in the ships under discussion .
Coefficient is a factor generally less than 1 , giving the northern component of the mean directive force of the needle , or " " mean force to north , as might be expected from its close connexion with , appears to be affected solely by lapse of time similarly to ; for example , in the ' Malabar\ldquo ; ( a ) sister ship to the " " Euphrates\ldquo ; of the tables ) , a valuable series of observations was made between England and Bombay the results of which are here recorded .
Malabar.\mdash ; Spithead , 17 861 Aden , 10 861 Bombay , 906 Suez , xi .
70 907 Spithead , 5 ix .
71 932 Spithead , 28 930 Each of the above values of is the mean of several observations conducted mder favourable cumstances , and the observations , as far as they go , confirm the conclusions drawn from other ships in England .
The ship 's visit to the heat of the tropics seems to have ccelerated the change in Coefficient , in which represents the vertical force caused by vertical induction in the soft iron of the ship ; the vertical force from the hard iron .
The values of contribute largely in many ships to the heeling error .
For the purpose of eliminating the values of from observations in widely different magnetic latitudes are still required .
* By Stafl Commandcr J. C. RICHARDS , R.N. STAFF COMMANDER E. W. CREAK ON THE DEVIATIONS OF THE In order to show the relative proportions of hard to soft iron affecting the standard compasses of the ships named in the tables\mdash ; which are cruisers liable to be sent on long voyages\mdash ; the values of and have been placed together here\mdash ; Active . . . .
Shah Raleigh Inconstant Irom armour-plated ships\mdash ; Bellerophon .
Iron Duke Triumph .
Swiftsure Northampton Nelson Iron vessels cased with wood\mdash ; Iron troop.ships\mdash ; Euphrates Himalaya Orontes 005 060 039 106 058 110 016 005 009 029 Steel and iron ships cased with wood\mdash ; Comus . . . .
238 034 Carysfort 263 044 Cleopatra 076 032 Composite vessels\mdash ; Ruby .
Gannet Albatross Boxer .
Pert Firefly Wrangler 024 023 Wooden ships with iron beams , \amp ; c.\mdash ; Encounter 234 018 8apphire233 045 On looking through the above values of , it will be noticed that large differences occur in sbips of similar construction .
It will be remembered that all iron and composite vessels are large magnets , COMPASS IN IRON ARMOUR..PLATED , IRON , AND COMPOSITE SHIPS .
625 generally of widely different forms .
The values of are , therefore , chiefly dependent upon the position which standard compass occupies on board these ships , considered as magnets .
Again , each iron body introduced during equipment into that great magnet , the ship , tends to modify in one direction or another its action upon the compass .
Consequently , if the compass be moved from the stern along the central longitudinal line of a ship towards her bow , it will be subjected to the influence of forces varying from those of repulsion or attraction , to zero , and then to those of attraction or repulsion .
For example , the " " Iron Duke\ldquo ; and the " " Triumph\ldquo ; \mdash ; although not sister ships\mdash ; are alike in many points , and built nearly in the same direction .
Iron Duke .
416 Triumph Distance of standard compass from stern .
81 feet .
It might at first sight be inferred from these results , that the position of the compass in " " Triumph\ldquo ; is better than in the " " Iron Duke Keeping in view the object\mdash ; always much desired\mdash ; of so placing the compass as to have , when corrected , small changes of deviation on change of magnetic latitude , it will be seen this is not the case .
A reference to the values of , representing the changing part of the deviation , shows that in the ' Iron Duke\ldquo ; the value is ; in the " " Triumph\ldquo ; it .
Thus , the ' Triumph's\ldquo ; compass would be improved as regards deviation by moving it further towards the stern and away from the armour-plated bulkhead caning the large value of , and opposing the increased value of which would ensue , by a bar magnet .
These considerations tend to show the importance of the long-established regulations with regard to the placin of the standard compass in ships of the Royal Navy , which provide , that the best possible position with regard to surrounding iron shall be selected for it , subject to the interests of the ship as an engine of war .
General Conclusions .
The following general conclusions have especial reference to the Standard Compass positions in those vessels mentioned in the tables , and to all others of similar types .
1 .
A large proportion of the semicircular deviation is due to permanent magnetism in hard iron .
the compass pillar in opposition to and of equal force to the forces producing that deviation .
3 .
A small proportion of the semicircular deviation is due to sub-permanent magnetism , which diminishes slowly by lapse of time .
4 .
The sub-permanent magnetism produces deviation in the same direction as the permanent magnetism in hard iron , except when temporarily disturbed , ( 1 ) by the ship 's remaining in a constant position with respect to the magnetic meridian for several days , ( 2 ) by concussion , ( 3 ) or by both combined , when the disturbance is intensified .
5 .
To ascertain the full value of changes in the sub-permanent magnetism , observations should be taken immediately on removal of the inducing cause .
6 .
In the usual place of the standard compass the deviation caused by transient vertical induction in soft iron is small , and of the same value ( nearly ) for ships of similar construction .
7 .
The preceding conclusions point to the conditions which should govern the selection of a suitable position for the standard compass with regard to surrounding iron in the ship .

