On the Motions of the Eye , in illustration of the Uses of the Muscles and Nerves of the Orbit .
By Charles Bell , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read March 20 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 166 .
] The author of this paper has entered into an examination of the external apparatus and muscles of the eye , with the view of explaining the necessity of six nerves being given to the parts contained in the orbit .
In the course of this examination he shows that the six muscles , which are attached to the eye-ball , do not , as has been supposed , form one class of voluntary muscles ; but that while the four straight muscles , or recti , are provided for the voluntary motions of the eye when directed to objects , the other two , called oblique , perform certain involuntary motions .
These involuntary actions are shown to be a provision for the better protection of the eye ; for when the eye-lids wink and close to wash the cornea , the effect would be incomplete , and the object but imperfectly attained , unless the cornea were at the same time raised by the revolving of the eye-ball .
After having proved that the eye-ball revolves so as to carry the cornea upwards during the motion of the eye-lids ; and having shown also that the oblique muscles are the agents in this involuntary and instinctive motion , -he proceeds to demonstrate that the same muscles elevate the cornea during sleep .
The author says , that while we are awake , the eye is under the active influence of the four straight muscles ; but when the eye-lids are closed in sleep these muscles resign their office , and the involuntary oblique muscles prevail , so as to draw the cornea under the upper eye-lid .
This is also shown to be the condition of the eye in faintness and on the approach of death , and on all other occasions when languor or debility prevail over the voluntary muscles of the frame .
The author notices , incidentally , that the enjoyment of the sense of vision is attended with the excited condition of the recti or voluntary muscles , and that insensibility to the impression on the eye is followed by relaxation and neglect of the same class of muscles , and consequently that a depraved and injured condition of the retina is one cause of squinting ; for the oblique prevailing , while the recti or involuntary muscles are neglected , draw the eye so affected from the parallel line of vision .
After having shown 'that the recti , or voluntary muscles , are strictly associated with the activity of the retina or organ of vision , he proceeds to express his opinion that the ideas received through the eye are not limited to the office of the retina , but that the sense of vision properly so called , is aided by the sense of voluntary exertion in the recti muscles , and afford us the knowledge of the position and relation of bodies , in addition to the ideas of form , shades , and colours , which are received through the retina .
The paper is illustrated by references to comparative anatomy , and by observations and experiments on man and brutes .
After having described the variety of actions performed by the muscles of the eye , the author proposes in the second part of the paper to arrange the nerves which go into the orbit according to their offices .

