574 Mr. J. W. Mallet .
[ June 17 , other type be substituted for E ' it is easy to find its for its a is as area of cups , its f is known , and assuming its x ' and computing as before , we get similarly its A* .
He tried five different types and obtained very unexpected results , for he found that the x varied as some inverse function of the diameter of the cups and of the arms .
He gives its values .
Ho. 1 .
Original instrument 12 " cups 23T7 arms , 35=1-5880 , limit 2-812 " 2 .
Kew ... ... ... ... ... . .
9 " 24 , " 1-5919 , " 2-831 " 3 .
" 9 " 12 , " 1-7463 , " 3-035 " 4 .
" 9 " 8 , " 2-1488 , " 4-051 " 5 .
" ... ... ... ... .
4 " 26-75 , " 1-8587 , " 3-425 " 6 .
... ... ... ... .
4 " 10-67 , " 2-5798 , " 4-958 Ho. 6 is similar to Ho. 2 , and it might be expected that their constants would be equal .
The cause of these differences is partly the eddies caused by the cups being more powerful when the arms are short , but still more the presence of high powers of the arm and diameter occurring in the expressions of the mean pressures on the concave and convex surfaces of the hemispheres .
In the present state of hydrodynamics we cannot assign these expressions , but we know enough to see that such powers may be present .
As each type of anemometer has its own constants , the author would suggest to meteorologists the propriety of confining themselves to one or two forms .
For fixed instruments he considers the Kew one as good as any , and would wish to see it generally adopted .
For portable ones he has no experience except with Casella 's 3 " cups 6 " arms , which he found very convenient ; he has not however determined its constants .
Some selection of the sort seems necessary if it is wished to have an uniform system of wind-measures .
XIII .
" Note on the Bearing on the Atomic Weight of Aluminium of the Fact that this Metal occludes Hydrogen .
" By J. W. Mallet , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1880 .
In a recent communication to the Academie des Sciences , * it has been pointed out by Dumas that metallic aluminium and magnesium , as well as silver , may contain sensible quantities of occluded gas , that obtained from aluminium being almost pure hydrogen .
In a paper on the atomic weight of aluminium read before the Royal Society on the 22nd of April last I gave , among other data , the results of several experiments on the quantity of hydrogen liberated by a known weight of aluminium from a strong solution of sodium hydrate .
* " Comptes liendus , " 3 Mai , 1880 , p. 1027 .
1880 .
] On the Atomic Weight of Aluminium .
575 In examining beforehand the purity of the specially prepared metal used , warned by Dumas ' previous results as to gaseous occlusion by silver , of which due account was taken in the paper , I did not neglect to test in like manner the aluminium , but obtained an entirely negative result .
As , however , I heated the metal in a Sprengel vacuum only to the highest temperature which a hard Bohemian glass tube would bear , while M. Dumas says that gas is only given off suddenly " verse le rouge Maiic , " I have since seeing his paper repeated the experiment in a porcelain tube , and at this higher temperature , obtained by means of an excellent gas furnace , with a small remnant of the same material nsed in the atomic weight determinations .
4-783 grms. of the metal thus treated gave a small bubble of gas , , which measured but 75 cub. centim. at 24 ' C. and 752 millims. pressure .
Transferred to a miniature eudiometer it was exploded with oxygen , and seemed to be pure hydrogen .
This is but little more than one-third the quantity of gas obtained by Dumas , but his experiments and my own with silver prove that the amount occluded varies with the conditions under which the metal has been fused , and two circumstances in the preparation of my aluminium probably tended to reduce the proportion of hydrogen taken up\#151 ; namely , that , fearing possible contamination of the metal by its alloying itself with sodium at the moment of reduction from the bromide , I used a considerable excess of the latter , and that , not only were the ingots of sodium wiped free of naphtha with a cloth , but the outside surface was pared off with a knife , and only quite clear and solid pieces of the alkaline metal were used for the reduction .
The above volume of hydrogen only represents a weight of 0 000061 grm. ; the corresponding weight from the largest amount of aluminium used in the atomic weight experiments of Series 3 , A ( in which the gaseous hydrogen evolved was measured ) , would be but O'OOOOIO grm. , and the corresponding weight from the largest amount of aluminium used in Series 3 , B ( in which the hydrogen evolved was burned and weighed as water ) , would be 0-000067 grm.\#151 ; both quantities too small to be determined by the balance used .
Even if it were possible to correct for this occluded hydrogen the weight of metallic aluminium taken , the greatest error in the volume of hydrogen obtained in Series 3 , A , would only represent 0 12 cub. centim. , which would be barely measurable in the flask used , an\lt ; would affect the atomic weight deduced for aluminium to an extent less than one-tenth of the probable error of the mean result .
And , in Series 3 , B , the greatest error in the weight of the water produced by combustion of the hydrogen would be 0*0006 grm. , measurable by the balance , but affecting the result by less than three-fourths of the probable error of the mean .
Hence it appears that , although there is undoubtedly a constant 576 On the Spectrum of the Flame , of Hydrogen .
[ June 17 , error due to the cause pointed out by the great French chemist , its influence is in the present case inappreciable by existing means of measurement , and no correction of the numbers obtained for the atomic weight in question can be applied which shall have any real meaning .
The other series ( 1 and 2 ) of experiments made to determine this atomic weight do not involve the question of gaseous occlusion , at any rate in the same form , as in them the metal itself was not used , b ut certain of its compounds only .
XIV .
On the Spectrum of the Flame of Hydrogen .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1880 .
Messrs. Living and Dewar state , in a paper read before the Royal Society on June 10 ( antep .
494 ) , that they have obtained a photograph of the ultra-violet part of the spectrum of coal gas burning in oxygen , and in a note dated June 8 they add that they have reason to believe that this remarkable spectrum is not due to any carbon compound but to water .
Under these circumstances I think that it is desirable that I should give an account of some experiments which I made on this subject some months since without waiting until the investigation is more complete .
On December 27,1879,1 took a photograph of the flame of hydrogen burning in air .
As is well known , the flame of hydrogen possesses but little luminosity , and shows no lines or bands in the visible part of the spectrum , except that due to sodium as an impurity .
Professor Stokes , in his paper " On the Change of Refrangibility of Light , " * had stated that " the flame of hydrogen produces a very strong effect .
The invisible rays in which it so much abounds , taken as a whole , appear to be even more refrangible than those which come from the flame of a spirit lamp .
" I was not , however , prepared for the strong group of lines in the ultra-violet which , after an exposure of one minute and a half , came out upon the plate .
Two or three weeks later , about the middle of January , 1880 , I showed this spectrum to Professor Stokes , and we considered it probable that this remarkable group was the spectrum of water .
Professor Stokes permits me to mention that , in a letter addressed to me on January 30 , he speaks of " this novel and interesting result , " and makes some suggestions as to the disputed question of the carbon spectrum .
* " Phil. Trans. , " 1852 , p. 539 .

