June 20 , 1844 .
JAMES WALKER , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
1 .
" On the Structure of the Ultimate Fibril of the Muscle of Animal Life .
" By Erasmus Wilson , Esq. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Middlesex Hospital ; in a Letter addressed to Peter Mark Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. Communicated by Dr. Roget .
By resorting to peculiar methods of manipulation , and employing a microscope of more than ordinary power , .
the author , with the assistance of Mir .
Lealand , has succeeded in discovering the real structure of the ultimate muscular fibril , in a specimen taken from the arm of a strong healthy man immediately after its amputation .
He finds each fibril to be composed of minute cells , disposed in a linear series , flattened at their surfaces of apposition , and so compressed in the longitudinal direction as to leave no marginal indentation on the surface ; thus constituting a uniform cylinder , divided into minute subdivisions by transverse septa , which are formed by the adherent surfaces of contiguous cells .
The diameter of the fibril , in the state of relaxation , is the 20,000th part of an inch .
The cells are filled with a transparent substance , to which the author gives the name of lyoline , and which differs in its refractive density in different cells .
In four consecutive cells the myoline is of greater density than in the four succeeding cells , and this alternation is repeated throughout the whole course of the fibril .
In consequence of all the fibrils composing the ultimate fasciculus having the same structure , and the cells , which are in lateral juxtaposition , containing myoline of the same density , they act similarly on light , and the whole presents , to the eye of the microscopic observer , a succession of ' striae or bands , dark and luminous alternately , and transverse to the direction of the fasciculus ; an appearance which has been noticed by preceding observers , but of which the cause had not hitherto been ascertained .
A dark stria may occasionally appear as a luminous one , and vice versed , when viewed by light transmitted at different degrees of obliquity .
The structure here described , the author remarks , reduces the muscular fibre to the simple type of organization exhibited in the combination of a series of cells , associating it with other tissues of cell formation , and will probably , he thinks , open new sources of explanation of the immediate agency of muscular action , a power hitherto involved in the deepest mystery .

