1874 .
] Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
between the wires themselves and not between the currents , repulsion instead of attraction must be due to difference of direction of structure produced by difference of direction of the currents .
Although the Amperean theory has rendered immense service to magnetic science , and agrees admirably with all the phenomena of electromagnetic attraction , repulsion , and motion , it is in some respects defective ; it assumes that magnetism is due to innumerable little electric currents continually circulating in one uniform direction round the molecules of the iron ; but there is no known instance of electric currents being maintained without the consumption of power , and in magnets there is no source of power ; electric currents also generate heat , but a magnet is not a heated body .
If , however , we substitute the view that the phenomena of attraction and repulsion of magnets are due , not to continuously circulating electric currents , but ( as in electric wires ) to definite directions of molecular structure , such as is shown by the phenomena of electro-torsion to really exist in them , the theory becomes more perfect .
It would also agree with the fact that iron and steel have the power of retaining both magnetism and the electro-torsional state after the currents or other causes producing them have ceased .
According so this view , a magnet , like a spring , is not a source of power , but only an arrangement for storing it up , the power being retained by some internal disposition of its particles acting like a " ratchet " and termed " coercive power .
' The fact that a magnet becomes warm when its variations of magnetism are great and rapidly repeated , does not contradict this view , because we know it has then , like any other conductor of electricity , electric currents induced in it , and these develop heat by conduction-resistance .
According also to this view , any method which will produce the requisite direction of structure in a body will impart to it the capacity of being acted upon by a magnet ; and any substance , ferruginous or not , which possesses that structure has that capacity ; and , in accordance with this , we find that a crystal of cyanite ( a silicate of alumina ) possesses the property , whilst freely suspended , of pointing north and south by the directive influence of terrestrial magnetism , and one of stannite ( oxide of tin ) points east and west under the same conditions .
IY .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. , and Gr .
M. Seabroke , F.R.A.S. Received February 2 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) This paper consisted of the observations made of the sun 's chromosphere and of the prominences for the period 1st September , 1872 , to 31st December , 1873 .
Details are given of the modes of observation adopted .

