]\gt ; Capt. Noble and Mr. F. A. Abel [ June 18 , IX .
Researches on Explosives.\mdash ; Fired Gunpowder.\ldquo ; By Capt. NOBLE , late Royal Artillery , F.R.S. , , F.C.S. , and F. A. ABEL , F.R.S. , Treas .
( Abstract .
) After an historical review of the investigations and theoretical views ting to the results produced upon the explosion of gunpowder , which been published the last 150 , the authors proceed to describe the chief objects contemplated by their researches , are in continuation of some oommenced by Captain Noble in 1868 , and described in a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution in These objects were as follow:\mdash ; Pirst .
To the products of combustion of gunpowder , fired under circumstances similar to those which exist when it is in guns or mines .
Second .
To ascertain the tension of the products of combustion at the moment of explosion , and to determine the law ccording to which the tension varies with the gravimetric density of the powder .
Third .
To scertain whether any , and , if so , what well-defined tion in the nature or proportions of the products accompanies a in the density or size of grains of the Fourth .
To determine )whether any , and , if so , what influence is exerted on the nature of the metamorphosis by the pressure under which the gunis fired .
Fifth .
To determin the volume of permanent gas liberated by the explosion .
Sixth .
To compare the explosion of gunpowder fired in a oloss vessel with that of similar gunpowder fired in the bore of a Seventh .
To determine the heat generated by the coulbustion of gunpowder , amd thence to deduce the temperature at the stant of explosion .
Eicy .
To determine the which gunpowder is capable of forming on a shot in the bore of a gun , and thence to ascertain the total theoretical work , if the bore be supposed of indefinite length .
The several methods of experiment by the authors , and the most important apparatus employed in their researches , are next described in detail .
The experimental operations incJude : .
Measurement of pressure developed ; 2 .
Measurement of ] of permanent gases ; 3 .
Measurement of heat developed ; 4 .
Collection of gases ; 5 .
Collection of solids ; 6 .
lysis of the gaseous and solid products .
have to express our acknolvledgments of the valuable assistance we have received trom Mr. Charles Hutchinson in the very laborio calculations , from Mr. George Stuart in the mechanical arrangements and in carrying nut the experiments themselves , and from Dr. Kellner and Messrs. Dearing , Dodd , and Hobler in the analytical portion of these researches .
1874 .
] on Fired Gunpowder .
409 The gunpowder rateJ upon in ) kinds , .
pebble fle UtlOt ) rifle fine of -tbbe.y ture ) a erical pellet of nish m sclected for rinlent as presenting rable d } .
from the compositiou of the ders is in the Table :\mdash ; TABLE I. Rosults of is of foyed .
The quauitics of gunpowder ploded in the scvernl tions ranged from gr nes to 1 mues .
The follolJ is a description of the pparntus i Fch ) ere :\mdash ; The apparatus of a ld Cssel , of cilretempered iu oi ] , in the chttmber the charge fo be xs as placed .
The orifice of the a plug , called the firing-plug , fitted and ground into its place ith great exactness .
In firing-plug self a conical } , stopped by a plug , also ground into its ith great , fur of insulation , ered vitb the finest ( one in the cone , the other in the plug ) ere a fine platinum passing rough a glttss tube filled der .
By completmg connexion 11 ith a Daniell 's bnttcry , the could be fired .
There ot tureS in the chamber\mdash ; one icating ith the gement for letting gases escape , the other the crusher-apparatus for determining the tension the moment of explosion .
pressures actually observed with the apparatus just described Capt. Noble and Mr. F. A. Abel [ June varied from over 36 tons on the square inch to about 1 ton on the square inch .
The dangerous nature of the operations of explosion , carried out on so considerable a scale as in these investigations , rendered great precautions necessary .
Unless the explosion-cylinder was most perfectly closed , the violent escape of gas resulted in its immediately cutting a way out for itself , destroying the arrangement for closing the apparatus .
Special observahons were made to rtain how long a period elapsed after explosion before the nom-gaseous products assumed the solid form .
They appeared to do this a little within two minutes after explosion , when a charge nearly filling the vessel was used .
The method employed for collecting the gaseous products as soon as possible after the explosion presented no special feature of novelty .
On opening the explosion-vessel after the gases had been allowed to escape , the solid products were found collected at the bottom , there being gene- rally an thin ( in fact , with large charges , quite an inappreciable ) deposit on the sides .
The surface of the deposit was generally perfectly smooth and of a very dark grey , almost black , colour .
This colour , however , was only superficial , and through the black could be perceived what was probably the real colour of the surface , a dark -green .
The surface of the deposit , and the sides of the cylinders , had a somewhat greasy appearance , and were indeed greasy to the touch .
On the smooth surface were frequently observed very minute particles , in rance like soot , but of the greasy texture to which allusion has been made .
The removal of the deposit was generally attended with great difficulty , as it formed an exceedingly ard and compact mass , which always had to be cut out with steel chisels .
Lumps would frequently break off , but a considerable portion flew off before the chisel in fine dust .
In various experiments , on examining the fracture as exhibited by the lumps , the variation in ph.ysical appearance was very striking , there being marked differences in colour , and also , frequently , a marked absence of homogeneity , patches of different colours being interspersed with the more uniform shade of the fracture .
There was no appearance of general crystallime structure in the deposit ; but , on examination with a microscope , and sometimes with the naked eye , shining crystals of metallic lustre sulphide of iron ) were observed .
On the whole , the genernl appearance of the deposit was attended with such considerable variations , that , for minute details , reference must be made to the account of the experiments themselves .
The deposit always smelt powerfully of sulphuretted hydrogen , and , frequently , strongly of ammonia .
It was always exceedingly deliquescent , and after a short exposure to the air became black on the surface , gradunlly passing over into an inky-looking pasty mass .
As in physical appearance , so in behaviour , when removed from the cylinder , there were considerable differences between the experiments .
The deposit was transferred to thoroughly dried and warm bottles , and 1874 .
] on Fired Gunpowder .
411 up as rapidly as possible .
In most cases , the very short time that elapsed while the transference was being made , no apparent change took place ; but , in some , a great tendency to development of heat was apparent ; and in one instance , in portion of the deposit ( ex 1 h.biting this tendency in a high degree ) as kept exposed to the action of the air , the rise of temperature so great that the paper on hlch it was phced became chnrl.ed , and the deposit itself changed colour great rapidity , becoming bright on the ce .
This tendency to heat aln when the deposlt confined in a bottle and fresh acccss of air excluded .
The methods emplo.yed in the nalysis of ' the gaseous and solid products of explosio]l differed on in a respects those adopted by Bunsen and iu their investigation of the products of explosion of der .
As regards the oportions of total solid and gaseous products furmshed by the several -ders , l.emarkable unifol.mity as exhibited by the results of explosion of the same der at different.presstlres .
' and no very considerable difference existed between the proportions furnished by the three chiefly the researehes .
largest gra , or pebble povder , yielded most gns ; the quantity furnished by R. L. G. -der 1 ] as uot greatly inferior , but decidedly more considerable than that ielded by the smallest The ition of the furnished by the explosion of all the English powders 1 ] as throughout ably uuiforln , but presented certain apparently ] -defined small riations , regulated by the pressure under which the vere developed , the chief belllg a eidV increase the dride a decrease in that of carbonic oxide , proportion as the illcrensed .
The composition of the solid products exhibited much greatel ' tions , chiefly regard to state of combination iu hioh the ] phur existed .
These ) were exhibited not merely by the products iued from the diflerent vders , but also , and to as great extent , by those hich one the same vder furnished at different , and apparently without reference to the pressure , excepting in the case of the very vest ( the powder .
cenl .
of the total space in the chalnber ) .
The authors institute a comparison veen the composition of the products of explosion obtained in their experiments and the results published by Buusen and Schischkofl and othel .
recent experlmenters , and proceed to a critical examination of the methods pursued .
by these for obtaining the products of the composition of der , glvlng reasons why the results which those methods of operation furnished cannot be accepted as representing the chaIlges hioh p der undergces when exploded in a closed space .
The authors further proceed : is evident that the hich occur among the powder-constituents , in addition to those which resuIt Capt. Noble and Mr. F. A. Abel [ June 18 , in the development of giLS , of fairly uniform composition ( and very uniform as the propor ions which it bears to the solid ) , from powders not videly m from each other , are susoeptible of very rable variations , regardmg the causes of which it appears only possible to form ctures .
Any attempt to , even in a comtively complicated chemical equation , the nature the metamorwhioh a gunpowder of average composition may be cons:dered to dergo when in a conhned would therefore only be ulated to convey an impresslon as to the simplic.ity , or the nature , of the and their umformity under ferent } hile it ould , in realit.y , possess no important bearing upon the elucidahon of the theory of of vder .
The extensive experiments which the ittee on Explosive Substances has instituted , English and oreign vders of very various composition , have conclusively demonstrated that the influence exerted upon the action of fired mpowder by very considerable variations in the constitution of the vder ( except in the case of small charges applied in rearms ) is often very small as compared with ( or even more counterbalanced by ) the modifyin eflects of variations in the mechanical and physica properties of the powder in its density , , the size and of the grains or masses , \amp ; c Hence it is not surprising to find that a fine-grain vder , which differs much more in mechanical than in chemic.al points from the larger powder ( R. L. G. ) used in these experiments , should present dscided differences , not only in regard to the pressures which it develops under similar conditions , but also as regards the proportions and uniformity of the products which its explosion lrnishes .
On the other hand , the differences in regard to size individual masses , and other mechanical peculiarities , between the R. L. G. and pebble are , comparatively , not so considerable , and are in directions much less likely to affect the results obtained by osions in perfectly ] osed spaces .
Again , the analysis of solid esidnes furnished by varions kinds of gunpowder , which presented marked in compcsition , did not establish points of difference could be traced to any influence exerted by suoh variations ; indeed the proportions of the several products composing residues which were furnished by one and the same powder , in desirability of applying these means to effecting in the action of fired gunpowder was pointed out by Colonel Boxer in a memorandum submitted to theWar Office in ; and the first Government Committee on Gnnpowder , soon afterwards ( of which General er and Mr. bel were members , obtained results , which were reported officially in , by limiting the ] tions in the ture of poWder intended for use in guns to :tions in the iorm , size , density , of the iduxl grains or masses .
the composition of the remaining un tered .
Committee on .
Subslances lave adhered to this system in producing gunpowder for he largest Ordnance 01 the present day .
1874 .
] on Fired Gunpowder .
413 d.stinct experiments mnde at varied pressures , differed , in several instances , quite as ] as those found in some of the resldues of ders presented ided differences in , for the sous already , the { ufhors cnnot attempt to ally thing ) reclseexl .
) bblon o the chemical chct , of } erage crgoes hen expIoded in a confined space , they feel rrallted , by the results of their experiments , in stnting , the theory of the ion of der , as based lpon the resulfs Buusen and and accepted in receut far from corl e the of der as } the old and long-accepted theor ording t hich ihe Dlary products simply sium sulphide , onic adride , and nitrogen .
, the tollon ing broad ' the products fnrlllshed by he of appear to them to ) been established by the anilJvtical ults a 1 .
The proportion of carbonic oxidp produced in the explosion of a gunhich the saltpetre and harcoal exist calc ul accordiJlg to the old theory , to produce rboulC } dride only much Dlore thau hitherto ccepted .
2 .
The alnount of potassiam carbonate , under all conditions ( as nature of the and pressure l hich it is ex , is 1 ery much larger than has hitherto been considered to be produoed , acc.ordmg to the results Bullsell and Schischkofl and more recent expcrimenters .
3 .
The potassiut much smaller in amount than found Buusen and , LincL , and , e ) en in the } ) ighest resuIts ined iu the 4 .
is er in considerable amount , , genernJlv , in ( larger ) roportion than found b.v unsen and hischLoff ; there appears to be slroug reason for belielng , in most ances , it exists in large amo as 11 result of the sion of der .
5 .
otassiu }hyporulphite is an important product of the decomposition of cffi in closed spaces , though very ariable in amount .
It appears probabJe reasoni , being discussed paper ) that its is in some tSUle subser)ient to that of the sulphide ; and it may pertjaps , regarded as represenling , at to .
consi lerable , that suLslance in .
as resulted , partially to a 1 ariable exteut , trom the idation , by liberated , of sulphi le has been formed the first Ilce .
6 .
The proportion of sulphur does not ellter into the primary reaction on the explosion of powder is very vRrinble , being some high , hile , appttrently exceptional results , the whole amount sulphur contained in the becomes in in the metamor414 Capt. Noble and Mr. F. A. Abel [ June 18 , phosis .
In the case of pebble powder , the mechanical c , ondition ( size and regularity of grain ) of which is perhaps more favourabJe to uniformity of decomposition , under varied conditions as regards pressure , than that of the smaller powders , the amount of sulphur which remains as potassium polysulphide is very uniform , except in the products ined at the lowest pressure ; and it is noteworthy that with R. L. G. powder , under the same conditions , vely little sulphur escapes ; while in the case of F. G. powder , under corresponding circumstances , there is no free sulphur at all .
7 .
But little can be said regard to those products , gaseous and solid , which , though almost always occurring in small quantities in the products , and though apparently , in some instances , obeying certain rules with respect to the proportion in which they are formed , cannot be regarded as lmportant resuIts of the explosion of powder .
It may , however , be remarked that the regular formation of such substances as potassium sulphocyanate and ammonium carbonate , the regular escape of hydrogen and sulphydric acid from oxidation , hile oxygen is occasionally coexistent , and the frequent occurrence of appreciable proportions of potassium nitrate , indicate a complexity as well as an incompleteness in the metamorphosis .
Such complexity and incompleteness are , on the one hand , a natural result of the great abruptness as well as of the comparative difficulty with which the reactions between the ingredients of the mechanioal mixture take placs ; on the other hand , they the view that , even during the exceedingly brief period within which chemioal activity nltinues , other changes may occur ( in addition to the most simple , which follow upon the ignition of the powder ) when explosions take place at pressures suoh as are developed under practical conditions .
The tendency to incompleteness of metamorphosis , and also to the development of secondary reactions , under favourable conditions , appears to be fairly demonstrated by the results obtained in exploding the different powders in spaces ten times that hich the charges occupied ( Experiments 8 , 1 , and 16 ) .
It appears , however , that , even umder conditions apparently the most favourable to uniformity of metamorphosis ( namely , in explosions produced under high pressures ) , accidental circumstances may operate detrimentally to the simplicity and completeness of the reactions .
But the fact , indisputably demollstrated in the coul.se of these researches , that such ccidental variations in the nature of the changes resulting from the explosion do not , even when very considerable , affect the force exerted by fired gunpowder , as demonstrated by the recorded pressures , \amp ; c. , indicates that a minute examination into the nature of the products of explosion of powder does not necessarily contribute , directly , to a comprehension of the causes which may operate in modifying the action of fired gunpowder .
In illustration of the analytical results obtained in theae investigations 1874 .
] on Fired Gunpowder .
415 the statement is given of the percentage composition of the products of explosion , under one or different pressures , of the three principnl vders used .
II .
illustrahve of esnlts o Pcbble .
R. L. G. F. G. \mdash ; Pressure of explosio.n.in..t.ons } 37 per square inc Percent.weight.solid.ducts .
5809 weight of gase .
products Percentage of solid products of explosion : \mdash ; Potassium rbonntc ) ) ) dphate . . .
1 -nlphide 7 sulhoynate 009 03 00 023 nitrate 020 008 oxide Aonii.bonate Sulphur 92 5 Carbon. .
tracc trace centage volumes of gaseous products:\mdash ; Carbonic anhydride 4890 Carbonic oxide 133 ) ) Nitrogen ) 3464 3 Sulphydric acid Marsh-gas Hydrogen 208 207 204 Oxygen TABLE III .
the } ?
position l ) the of of a } of as fnrjzished by the Pcbble .
R. L. G. F. G. grm. sium carbouate . .
3115 o09S .2499 hyposulphite 0338 0308 1863 sulphate 0843 ] 0487 .1409 .
sulphide 0298 sulphocyanate 0000 ) nitrate 0027 0011 oxide 0173 Ammonium sesquicarbonate ) carbon sulphur ) Total solid Sulphydric acid 0084 0166 0077 ) Oxygen . .
Carbonic.oxide Carbonic anhydride 2770 ) ) Marsh-gas 0012 0006 0015 0009 Hydrogen 0007 0005 0003 0010 trogen Total gaseous Capt. Noble and Mr. .
A. Abel [ June 18 , As it was one of the principal objects of the authors to determine , with as muoh accuracy as ] , llot only the tension of.firedc Junpowder when hlling complctely the skace it was exploded , but also to determine lnw to which the tens ion vuried with the clensity , the periments instituted to ascertain these important points were both varied aJld complete .
The general results obtained are given in the Table .
TABLE Showiny the pressure corresponding to density of the products of ofF .
G. , .
L. G. , and pebble powders , as deduced from actual , in close The of the heat , oped by the explosion was also made the subject of direct experiment , and , from the of several closely concordant results , it was found that the combustion of a gramme the powders experimented with generated about grammeunits of .
Btlnsen and Sohischkoff 's bion , that the specific heats of the solid products invariable the great range of temperature through which they pass , is considered by the authors untenable ; they have , however , deduced the temperature ( about C. ) upon this hypothesis , both to facilifate comparison of their results with those of Bunsen and , and to give a high limit , to which the temperature of explosion can inly not The volume of solid products obfamed from gramme of powder is fixed by the authors at about .
cent. at ordinary temperatures .
A comparisoll is next instituted of the pressures actually observed to exist in a close vessel with that ] ated upon the assumption that , at the moment of explosion , bout 5 per cent. by weight of the produots of explosion are non-gaseous , and 43 per ) .
in the form of permanent ses .
The relation between the pressure the density of the pro- ucts of combustion may be expressed by the following equation , const .
( a being a constant termined from the experiments ) ; and a comparison of the results is given in the following :\mdash ; 1874 .
] on Fired Gunpowder .
\ldquo ; in tons per sqn ) , between the pressnres actt ( in close } .
that the ordauco of this lnparlsOll ith full.v } of hcir The dafn nished bgoing e ftuthors to determine lly the temper lind to be about corroctness of nate they COll on of posed to the temperature of explosiou .
) tinum ire or toil shone ed of fusion , but only in one ance .
he heat of the ?
) atl ' sion even C. and the of plosion arc discussed .
The uning the tensions the pdlcts of explosion in the bores of orduance , and the ults otLis direction the , are then , as far tho ders of the the ork lrom tlIl ) is not reased by inc.rements to crht of the , is irmed by the authol .
S , mHuence upon the tension of der by the vater in is 'he extent of tion of heat to the elope ( or gun ) in hich the der is exploded is next considered , tUld eDleltts and lations are to that snch communication ot hent varies from nbout cent. of the enel a the a small arm to about 3 per cent. in the -ton gun .
A comparisou is mstituted even the ) fonnd to exist the bores ) and lollofrom by is out , 011 the that the abstlmption , that the of tion i gaseous state , is the pressures led ; on the other hand , and hischkoif shesis that tho on the projectile is accomplished only by the permanent gascs , addition or bubtraction of heat , is to be irrec o ] Capt. Noble and Mr. F. A. Abel [ June 18 , experimental observations .
Whsn , however , the heat stored up in the solid residue is taken into account , it is found that calculation and experimental observation accord with great exactness ; and the authors express the tion between the tension of the products in the bore of a gun and the volume they occupy by the equation .
( 30 ) The temper ture of the products of explosion during their expansion in the bore of a gun is then given , and the maximum work that can be realized from powder for any given sxpansion , as also the total theoretic work of powder , are given .
The principal results of the authors ' investigations are rized as follows , and for convenience are computed upon one gramme of powder , occupying1 cent. :\mdash ; ( a ) First , with regard to powder firecf in close 1 .
On explosion , the products of combustion consist of about 57 hundredths , by weight , of matter , which ultimately assumes the solid form , and 43 hundredths , by weight , of permanent gctses .
2 .
At the moment of explosion , the fluid products of combustion , doubtless in a very finely divided state , occupy a volume of about .
cent. 3 .
At the same instant , the permanent gases occupy a volume of 4 cub. cent. , so that both the fluid and gaseous matter are of approximately the specilic gravity .
4 .
The permanent gases generated by the explosion of a gramme of powder are such that , at C. and 760 mm. barometric pressure , they occupy about 280 .
cents .
, and therefore about 280 times the volume of the original powder .
5 .
The constituents of the solid products are as shown inTables II .
\amp ; III .
6 .
The composition of the permanent gases is shown in the same Tables .
7 .
The tension of the products of combustion , when the powder fills entirely the space in which it is fired , is about 6400 atmospheres , or about 42 tons per square inch .
8 .
The tension varies with the mean density of the products of combustion , according to the law given in equation ( 3 ) .
9 .
About 705 gramme-units of heat are developed by the decomposition of one gramme of powder , such as used in the experiments .
10 .
The temperature of explosion is aboul 2200o C. ( b ) When powder is fired in the bore of a gun .
1 .
The products of explosion , at all events as far as regards the proIn this equation denotes the tension and ths volume of the products of explosion , the proportion occupied by the solid products , and the specilic heats of the permanent gases at constant volume and pressure , the mean specific heat of the nongaseous products , the ratio between the weights of the gaseous and non-gaseous of the charge .
1874 .
] on , Fired Gunpowder .
portions of total solid and seous matters , are the same as iu the case of powder fired in a close vessel .
2 .
The work on the projectile is effected by the elastic force due to the nent gases .
3 .
The reduction of temperature and pressure due to the expansion of the permanent gases is , in a great meastlre , ted by the heut stored up in the liquid residue .
4 .
The law connecting the tension of the products explosion the volume they occupy is stated equation ( 30 ) .
5 .
The work that gunpowder is cnpable of performin in expnnding in a vessel impervious to heat is by the equation ' and the temperature duri }nsion by the equation C. The total theoretic of indefinitely panded , is about 332,000 gra1nme-metres of powdel .
, or foottons per lb. of With to one or other points to hich the specinlly directed ttention , they consider their results them in stating that : \mdash ; 1 .
Very small-grain vders , such as F. G. and R. F. G. , furnish very decidedly smaller proportions of gaseous products than a .
L. G. ; 1}hile the tter , , furnishes somev h smnller proportions than still larger ( pebble ) , the difference the total gaseous products of these vders is tively 2 .
The variations in the composition of the products of explosion furnished , in close mbers , by one and the powder under different conditions as regards pressul'e , and by powders of similar composition under the same conditions as regards pressure , are so ] that no value whatever can be attached to any attempt to give a hemical expression to the metamorphosis of a der of normal composition .
3 .
The proportions in which the several constittlents of solid derresidue are formed are quite as muob affected by slight variations in the conditions hich the explosion of one and the same powder in diflerent experiments , as by decided differences in the composition , as -ell as in the size of grain , of powders .
4 .
Tn all but very exceptionnl results , the solid residue fnrnished by the explosion of gunpowder contains , as important constituents , sium carbonate , sulphnte , hvposulphite , and sulphide , the proportion of carbonate being very much higher , and that of te very much than is stated by recent investigntors .

