ADVERTISEMENT .
The Committee appointed by the Royal to direct the publication of the Philosophical Transactions take this opportunity to acquaint the public that it fully appears , as well from the Council-books and Journals of the Society as from repeated declarations which have been made in several former Transactions , that the printing of them was always , from time to time , the single act of the respective Secretaries till the Forty-seventh Volume ; the Society , as a Body , never interesting themselves any further in their publication than by occasionally recommending the revival of them to some of their Secretaries , when , from the particular circumstances of their affairs , the Transactions had happened for any length of time to be intermitted .
And this seems principally to have been done with a view to satisfy the public that their usual meetings were then continued , for the improvement of knowledge and benefit of mankind : the great ends of their first institution by the Boyal Charters , and which they have ever since steadily pursued .
But the Society being of late years greatly enlarged , and their communications more numerous , it was thought advisable that a Committee .
of their members should be appointed to reconsider the papers read before them , and select out of them such as they should judge most proper for publication in the future Transactions ; which was accordingly done upon the 26th of March , 1752 .
And the grounds of their choice are , and will continue to be , the importance and singularity of the subjects , or the advantageous manner of treating them ; without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts , or propriety of the reasonings contained in the several papers so published , which must still rest on the credit or judgment of their respective authors .
It is likewise necessary on this occasion to remark , that it is an established rule of the Society , to which they will always adhere , never to give their opinion , as a Body , t iv ] upon a subject , either of Nature or Art , that comes before them .
And therefore the thanks , which are frequently proposed from the Chair , to be given to the authors of such papers as are read at their accustomed meetings , or to the persons through whose hands they received them , are to be considered in no other light than as a matter of civility , in return for the respect shown to the Society by those communications .
The like also is to be said with regard to the several projects , inventions , and curiosities of various kinds , which are often exhibited to the Society ; the authors whereof , or those who exhibit them , frequently take the liberty to report , and even to certify in the public newspapers , that they have met with the highest applause and approbation .
And therefore it is hoped that no regard will hereafter be paid to such reports and public notices ; which in some instances have been too lightly credited , to the dishonour of the Society .

